{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__winston___doctors_dynamiters_and_gunmen.pdf","mytitle":"Doctors Dynamiters And Gunmen","mylang":"de"}
DYNAMITERS
AND GUNMEN
/
‘
ÿ
f
i
'
V
o
?NORMANBAM
A F a c t S t o r y
of I n j u s t i c e s -
C o n f i s c a t i o n
and Suppression
By
ALVIN WINSTON
Copyright 1936
By TNT PRESS
Muscatine, Iowa
All rights reserved.
Under certain conditions special permission
in writing, to copy part of this Book will be
granted to deserving parties who desire to
further the purposes advocated herein.
Published By
By TNT PRESS
Muscatine, Iowa
Printed in U. S. A.
F irst Edition 1934
Second Edition (Revised) 1934
Condensed Edition 1936
D E D I C A T E D TO
YOU
With the thought, that the bringing to
your attention of the facts herein, will
enlist your assistance to help smooth
the road by eliminating the groups,
suppression and injustices which
have made your traveling rough. Be­
lieving that the facts stated iherein
will enable you to escape the vicious
propaganda fostered by the Ameri­
can Medical Association, the Serum
manufacturers and some public offic­
ials who have become their slaves
in the world's greatest racket ■
— the
commercialization of human souls.
\
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
Introduction............................................................... 9
Foreword .................................................................... 13
I. A Son of the Corn Belt ...................................... 17
II. The Far Side of the Footlights ......................... 36
III. The Calliaphone and Public Utilities................. 49
IV. Station K-TNT ......................................................... 64
V. Is There a Radio T ru st?........................................ 79
VI. Attacks on K-TNT Begin ................................... 97
VII. Aluminum Poisoning and Cancer .....................121
VIII. The Embattled Doctors Begin to F ig h t.......... 148
IX. Gunmen, Dynamiters, and Doctors................... 170
X. The MedicalOctopus ...............................................192
XI. The Network of the Spider’s Web....................... 208
XII. How the Medical Octopus Functions.................224
XIII. Norman Baker on Trial ........................................239
XIV. The Midwest Free Press..........................................269
XV. The Seats of theMighty ........................................285
XVI. The Closing of K-TNT .........................................330
XVII. Baker’s Final Broadcast Over K-TNT ..........353
XVIII. The American Medical Association onT rial.. .399
X IX. Building XENT in M exico..................................424
X X. Norman Baker— To-day and To-morrow..........439
X XI. Sounding Off ............................................................457
XXII. Latest Developments- Against Baker ................462
ILLUSTRATIONS
Page
Norman Baker—Yesterday ................................................. 6
Norman Baker— Today ............................................... • 7
Norman Baker—As a B o y ................................................... 23
Norman Baker—In his ’teens............................................... 35
-The Calliaphone ...................................................................... 54
Municipal Light Plant at Muscatine, Iow a..................... 59
Station K-TNT, Muscatine, Iow a........................................ 78
Usual Sunday Crowd at K -T N T ........................................ 90
Thousands of Automobiles Brought to K -TN T............ 91
This 50,000 Crowd Assembled at K-TNT to see and hear
Mr. Johnson........................................................................... 92
Radio Chain Station Octopus ............................................ 96
Illustration of TNT Publication .........................................120
Test Patient No. 1 ..................................................................... 133
Test Patient No. 2 ..................................................................... 135
Test Patient No. 3 ........................................................... 137
Test Patient No. 4 ..................................................................... 142
Test Patient No. 5 ..................................................................... 143
The Popular Baker Hospital............................................... 151
Dr. Morris Fishbein .................................................................191
The Medical Octopus...............................................................193
Advertisement from a Lincoln Paper—1886....................202
Advertisement from a Lincoln Paper—1888....................203
The A. M. A. Spider.............................................................. 225
32,000 Visitors Assembled at K -T N T ................................ 244
Showing the Cancerous Head of Mandus Johnson
Before Treatment ...............................................................245
Showing the Top Layer Skull Removed After Three
Treatments........................................................................... .246
Showing Mandus Johnson’s Head After Being Cured at
Baker’s Hospital...................................................................247
Breast Cancer Case—Before and After Treatment.........260
Replica of Check Offered by Norman B ak er....................296
Interior Views of K-TNT ......................................................336
View of XENT at Nuevo Laredo, Mexico........................413
The Studio of X E N T .............................................•
...............421 .
Norman Baker “ in’’ his Desk.............................................440
At the beginning of the struggle, 1920.
today
Norman Baker as “snapped” at radio station XENT, Nuevo
Laredo, Mexico, from where his voice has been heard nightly
since December 28, 1933.
Introduction
HIS BOOK will take you a few hours, or at
most a few days, to read. It took half a
century of magnificent living on Norman
Baker’s part to make the story. It took nineteen
years to collect the material for the book. It
took more than two years in the actual writing.
It’s not fiction: it’s fact. It’s about people
you’ve read about and heard about, important promi­
nent people, who run the government, the courts, the
radio censorship, the medical monopoly, the alumi­
num monopoly, the newspaper racket, the “public
service” gouges. You’ve heard only the prettjy
things about them, the things they wanted printed,
true or not. This book is fact, and not fiction: here
you learn the real truth about them, with names,
addresses, times, and actual facts given in detail.
It’s not a book of theory, mine or Norman Baker’s or
anybody’s : it’s a book of facts, with every fact veri­
fied and checked up and made error-proof. There
has never been a book prepared so carefully. This
makes it the most important book ever written. It’s
not a book of propaganda, except as facts constitute
propaganda. Here’s the fact that a certain murderer
at this moment is holding the surgical lancet over the
9
10 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
quivering bared body of a woman, about to commit
an abortion upon her; here’s a fact that a named
group of monopolists are about to put the last inde­
pendent station off the air, unless they are stopped;
here’s a fact that a new bill now being pushed sur­
reptitiously through Congress will send me or you
to jail for advertising that a certain medicine will
ease the fever that comes with a common cold. Here’s
facts of confiscation, monopoly and whatnots. These
facts make propaganda like dynamite or T!NT. In
this sense, for the enormous cumulative force of the
facts, it is the strongest propaganda book ever
written. Ye shall know the truth, and . . . .
And it shall set you free, only if you have the
manhood and womanhood to see to it that it sets you
free. Before you finish it, at the bald horror, the
unutterable fiendishness of some of the things you
read, you will feel like crying, and swearing, and
going haywire at hideous horrors perpetrated in the
name of justice and law in our fair America. It’s
different: you never read a book that hit you like this.
It’s alive: as alive as a mother’s love or a miser’s
greed. You’re pretty sure to say, at first reading,
It’s all lies—it’s bound to be! Things as terrible as
this couldn’t happen in America! You’ll be wrong:
they have happened, they are happening, they will
happen, until you stop them. Here you’ve got it
down in black and white. It will make you hot under
Introduction • 11
the collar, hot to your soul. You’ll Avant to sit right
dO
Avn and write your Congressman:
Hon. M r.----------------------
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
DOCTORS, DYNAMITERS AND GUNMEN,
A Fact Story of Norman Baker, charges that the
radio trust did so and so; the medical monopoly,
the American Medical Association, did so and
so (fill in the details your o
avtl Avay); the alum
inum trust and the rest did so and so. If this is
untrue, send Norman Baker to jail. If it is true,
send them to jail. I demand an investigation,
at once, and I hope I voted for a man A
vho will
investigate.
Sincerely,
and sign your name and address. You’ll write the
same to your Senator, your President, any Cabinet
members you knoAv of, all persons in authority.
'Write once, tAvice, seventy times seven times.
Write till you wake them up, and get the investi­
gation. Make every member of your family, every
friend, every organization you belong to, every man
you do business with, write as often: or disown them,
affiliate yourself with real Americans who will make
it their life work to see that belated justice is done
in these awful instances of injustice that this book
12 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
is so packed with. Don’t sign petitions, write indi­
vidual letters.
.Lesser evils than those visited on Norman Baker
caused the Revolution of 1776. If justice is not
secured now for him, we might as well, expect an
outraged public opinion to do more than our fathers
of ‘76 did. Millionaires bellyache in public about
what the depression has meant to them: dear me,
they’ve had to let the third assistant footman go,
they’ve had to cut down 2% on all their money wasted
in stock market gambling! Norman Baker has
really suffered. When a group of men can rob a
private citizen, under cover of the law, of a million
and a half dollars investment. . . . But read ahead,
and see how the racket was worked. And then act.
Here they are, the big respected names, that expected
to go down into history with clean records: here is
the mire in which they lived, and the dirt they did.
Here is the splendid struggle of Norman Baker. How
long are you going to let him fight alone? Not one
minute! Get out pen and paper, read, write— and
act, at once!
Alvin Winston.
Foreword
by Clement Wood
don’t know why my friend Norman BaKer
wants me to write my superfluous introduction
to this brilliant biography, written by one of
America’s most caustic pens. I’ve never had cancer,
I don’t like the canned programs of the chain-group
radio bunch, I know already what inefficient asses
most doctors are. Alvin Winston has certainly put
it all in: if he hasn’t, if there’s anything more, it can
bnly expand unnecessarily the most moving chronicle
of human struggle and success I have ever read.
Baker’s record is matter of public knowledge.
Even his cancer cures. He has had to face the
barrage of court trials and government investigations,
and never once have they shaken his indisputable
proofs of actual cures, which organized medicine
can’t do and don’t do. He simply failed to get
friendly with the right gangs, the racketeers in charge
of medicine and radio and the rest. Ought he to
have gotten friendly with them? “You cannot
serve God and Mammon” says he ought not. I
never have: I haven’t got it in me to stoop. Neither
has he. My pants are still stinging, from the last
kick they gave me. So are his. So are theirs: and
that’s more to the point.
13
14 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
The book is bound to win its point. When I learn
that organized doctordom has the unbounded gall to
try to enact that only the “general agreement of
medical opinion”— and I thumb my nose at it heartily
—can determine whether any drug is helpful or not,
instead of a government investigation; and that any
drug supposed to have “any effect” on cancer, ven­
ereal diseases, measles, or housemaid’s knee, is there­
by of itself legally held to be worthless, and any
advertisement of it false, I simply say, the sooner we
start the investigation of this group of “belly-cutting
throat-cutting” medicos, to use Alvin Winston’s ac­
curate phrase, the better. When I learn from the
book, indisputably established, that the Federal
Radio Commission is spending its time and our money
going abroad with “secret instructions” to get Nor­
man Baker, dead or alive, I say,, let’s investigate the
gang, and quickly, and have a little bit of American
independence and decency in our government. It
is an infinite relief to learn that, if I ever do have
cancer, the Baker treatments, the Baker Hospital or
Institute, know how to heal me. Norman Baker has
almost made doctors entirely superfluous. If I had
my way, I wouldn’t let any doctor practice without
a diploma from him. But I suppose his remedy, of
medical freedom, is best: tell the tree by its fruits,
the doctor by his cures, not by his gravestones. We’ll
leave it at that.
I admire Franklin Roosevelt so much, for his
F oreword 15
magnificent start in cleaning up the mess the Re­
publicans had plunged us into, that I shall not nom­
inate Baker for President until Roosevelt is through
with the job. My slogan is, Norman Baker as
Roosevelt’s successor! And, in all seriousness, I’m
getting off a letter today to the President, to all the
Senators and Congressmen I know, and a few I
don’t, demanding these investigations at once. If
we can’t get decency and justice and fair play from
the government, we’d just as well shut up shop, and
invite Japan or the Hottentots or the maggots to run
our country for us. I still believe we can get these
things, even though Baker hasn’t, as yet. Let’s all
get together, and see that we do! Write your letters
today. It’s more than time to start something, to
end these hideous travesties of Americanism and
decency. Don’t delay. And, as you love your
happiness and your Americanism, see to it that a
million copies of this book get circulating at once!
You can’t do a finer thing for all right causes.
Clement Wood
Bozenkill
CHAPTER I
A SON OF THE CORN BELT
Most books are dead books, dealing with men and
things-and ideas ended and past, and fit only for
museums. This is a live book. It is the story, down
to this moment, of a man who is vibrantly alive, who
has carved his way repeatedly to high success. This
is the story of Norman Baker, modem crusader, and
of the efforts to strangle his actions and throttle his
voice. Unaided he can not win such conflicts for­
ever: no man ever has, no man ever could. He is not
unaided. His followers circle the globe. If you are
a man or a woman, and not a moron or robot, you
will at once enlist yourself beneath his banner, aid­
ing his splendid crusades.
Norman Baker is a great man, half encircled by
his snarling enemies, fighting with his back to the
wall. His weapon is the strongest man has yet
forged: publicity for his power, the truth for his
bullets. This book is a part of that weapon. You
will use it too, when you read it, and become a volun­
teer publicity man for it, making sure that your local
libraries carry it, and that as many people as you
can influence buy from one to a half a dozen copies,
and keep it circul ating so among all their friends and
acquaintances, until the fight is won.
Norman Baker -is one of America’s outstanding
self-made successes. Bom of good simple American
immigrant stock, with little book education, he has
made a success of everything he has attempted. He
17 '
18 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
never studied music but be invented a musical in­
strument which still leads its field, and is widely pop­
ular. He built and managed the most popular radio
station in the United States, K-TNT, which attracted
as many as fifty thousand visitors in one day. When
this was silenced by the forces of greed, he built in
hospitable Mexico the largest radio station in the
world, X-ENT, a machine gun he is using against the
strangling forces of greed. He is a voluntary cap­
tain in one of man’s major warfares, the fight against
cancer; he has done what organized medicine failed
to do, discovered and made available to the suffering
public an easy and lasting’cure, in spite of'the bitter
opposition of organized medicine. And this is only
one of his many major victories. . . .
This book proves that an ordinary man and wom­
an may still make a success of everything he puts
his hand to, in the United States today. It proves
that an actual factual education beats all the rah-rah
college degrees in the world. It proves that a cru­
sader for the rights of man benefits society more
than all the bloated bankers, financiers and “ con­
servative” leaders.
The book is packed with dynamite. It will throw
such a flood of publicity on the sly underhanded
attempts of the vested interests to throttle Norman
Baker in the hospitable land of Mexico, that they
will retire with their tails between their legs from
the noisome effort, and the| singing land south of us
will at once give this great public figure every facil­
ity in broadcasting truth to the world—to the citi­
zens of Mexico and the United States and of every
land that the etheric waves reach. It will insist upon
the belated act of justice to Norman Baker, of at once
A Son of The Corn Belt 19
restoring to him the recalled license for his station
K-TNT in Muscatine, Iowa, with ampler hours and
facilities for reaching the nation. It will put an end
to the outrageous persecution and snipping at the
Baker Hospital, the world’s only efficient place for
the beneficial treatment and cure of cancer. It will,
by its revelation of the strangling and health-dam­
aging activities of the American Medical Associa­
tion, inspire the worthy rank and file of its member­
ship to secede from that body, as so many of their
English brothers have done from the British Medical
Association, and thereafter to form an organization
liberal and helpful in its aims and practices. It will
quicken the sluggish popular conscience to demand­
ing an end to the censorship, by the vested interests,
of radio programs, so that free speech over our free
air will become once more a fact, and not a Utopian
dream. Most of all, it will serve to waken the world
to the importance of Norman Baker’s efforts in the
fight to stamp out the world-wide plague of cancer,
until man shall cease to suffer from this unnecessary
scourge.
I wrench my text from a book that millions rever­
ence: “Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
set you free.” I fling it like a searchlight on the
strained suffering face of this living martyr for
humanity’s sake, Norman Baker. Hold out a little
longer, old man—you will, none knows it better than
I!— and, by the living universe, we’ll have such a
scattering of the vested thieves and prowlers by
night as hasn’t been seen in a blue moon!
We’ll dig down deep, to start the story right.
Down to a little baby blinking his eyes open for the
first time when Arthur had been president less than
20 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
fifteen months, in a little house in the little riverbend
town of Muscatine, Iowa, half way between Daven­
port and Burlington. Just a roly-poly red-faced
bundle of gurgling babyhood, with no mark on his
brow to tell anyone that this man, before he died,
was going to pull down more pillars than Samson
ever saw, and ,let in light on blacker holes than that
of Calcutta.
We’ll start at the beginning. The saga of Norman
Baker’s adventurous and tempestuous life will lead
us a long way from the squalling brat*in Muscatine,
to the man—the suavely handsome fighting civic
leader—who, fought by the grasping rulers of his
native home, left the low hill over the Mississippi
for the hotter height on the farther side of the Rio
Grande. Blistering in the sun, welcoming the tropic
coolness of the shade, with the distant yelps of the
coyotes shattering the brittle quietude, and the rarer
unmuffled thunder of huge trucks roaring their way
to distant Monterrey . . . . here it is that the little
Iowa boy, grown up, is still laying brick upon brick
of his triumphant Babel, whose clarifying message
will drown out the bickers of lesser voices and lie-
vendors. Busy? He wrote to me, just before finish­
ing X-ENT—
“ I try to dictate the answers to your questions
dozens of times each day and night. I get a thought,
and after the first paragraph I am called downstairs.
The peons want to know where to dig a ditch, the
others where to pile some lumber, there is a knock in
the Diesel engine while testing, the stub shaft is
out of true, this fellow is out of a job and wants
to know what next to do, an officer comes out with a
summons from the Mexican Labor Department. At
A Son of The Corn B elt 21
four-thirty in the morning I was awakened to take
some people to the hospital with both legs broken,
by a car driving onto a washed-out bridge. My dog
was bit by a rattler and has a lump as big as an
orange on his throat, requiring a half pint of castor
oil and some potash and milk. But he’ll be all right,
I’m sure of it. The distilled water basin for cooling
the’engine broke, a few hours later, and had to be
cemented while the water was pouring out. I have
forceps lying on the washstand in the bathroom; three
times a day I went and tried to pull my own tooth,
and finally went to town this morning and had it
pulled—it’s laying on my desk now, and makes me
wonder why I couldn’t have pulled such a little thing.
They are out of lubricating oil downstairs. The
brushes' on the generator, spark and require adjust­
ment. The musical director wants to know how to
start the index book for filing music. I’ve just kicked
the radio engineer out of the place, and he’s on his
way to Iowa now; I told the rest of the bunch to go,
if they refused to work this afternoon, as they’ve been
doing all summer. Oh, hell— a fellow is here now,
and wants to know what color to paint under the roof
of the porch, so I must go. If you could remain sane
in the midst of all this madhouse .. . . ”
But Norman Baker remained sane. He had to
learn how to, a long while ago. We’ll leave him
building his sky-pointing dream, and return to a
quieter hour on the banks of the turbid Mississippi,
Thanksgiving tide a year more than half a century
ago. "It’s a boy!”
"W e’ll have to name him Norman . . . .”
In 1869, an immigrant from North Germany, with
his wife and his chubby firstborn, had moved up the
22 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Mississippi River from St. Louis to settle in the
eighteen year old town of Muscatine. This man had
come to America at the age of eleven as a stowaway,
bad renamed himself John Baker, and had had a
heroic Civil War record, fighting on the side of
Union and liberty. In 1865, the war over, he mar­
ried Frances Anschultz, of French-German ancestry,
in Galva, Illinois. Energetic John Baker started the
first sheet iron and boiler machine shop in south­
eastern Iowa; at the time of his death, he had a
hundred and twenty-six American and foreign pat­
ents. The mother was extremely cultured, and con­
tributed poems and short stories to the magazines.
Her tenth child, born November 27,1882, was named
Norman Baker. Modern psychology teaches us that
it is the oldest and the youngest children who most
usually qualify as of the class of geniuses—as if life
gave to the firstborn its best, and to the parents of
the lastbom, as a consolation for no more children,
one who should lift their names higher than ever be­
fore. The pet of the family, mother’s baby—look for
genius here. In this case you find it amply.
Two of the children died in infancy. Six of the
rest—the sisters Ida, Lillian, Myrtle, Maude, the
brothers Paul and John, took after the gentler An-
shultz strain. The third daughter, Irma, the young­
est son, Norman, were the firebrands of the large
flock. Bull-headed, everybody called them. At
that, Norman got along acceptably with his parents.
He remembers only one slap from his mother; and
only one occasion on which his father essayed to
whip him. The boy started running, stumbled on his
belly near a wire fence, rolled beneath it. The
angered father crept beneath the fence; the foxy
'flNMfi
/
Just old enough to roll under the fence when
Dad chased him.
24 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
youngster had rolled back on the other side. They
kept this up, until the disgusted father confessed
himself beaten, and abandoned the effort. Others
have learned that it doesn’t pay to try to whip Norman
Baker: he won't take it.
Little Norman stumbled brilliantly through the
six grades of the East Hill school in his town, the
highest class there, and was transferred to the old
Third Ward School. He was the youngest, he was
the pet: he must'go to college, as his brothers and
sisters had not. Bull-headedly he would shake his
head. “ I don’t want to go, dad, even though you do
say I can have my pick of any college in the world.”
‘1Ach, when I tell you to go to college, you go. There
is no answering back in this family.” And the little
boy would run to his mother, and plead with her not
to have him sent away. He did not go to college.
When he makes up his mind, Norman Baker could
teach an Arkansas mule what determination means.
He shot brightly through the Third Ward School,
and qualified to enter high school. To his shamed
amazement, he was told to repeat the previous year’s
work: and he was not told why. At last his persist­
ence won: he was too. young, he was told. He tried
direct action. His first record was of more times
playing hookey than any other pupil in the school.
Ah, but the subtlety of the ones in the seats of the
mighty! Miss Adams, his teacher, sent him quietly
in, one afternoon, to see Professor Roberts, the prin­
cipal. “Of course you know, Norman, that I’ve been
to see your mother.’’ “— Yes, Professor,’’ hesitantly,
from the boy, who had not dreamed that adult trick­
iness could descend that low. Well, he had been told
that God found out everything, and it seemed that
A S on op T he Corn B elt 25
his mother and the principal, once they got together,
were on the same track. He ceased playing hookey.
He hasn't done it since.
Admission to high school, the next autumn—and
doubly equipped for his work. He lasted here a year
and a half. Nor could he figure out how any of the
subjects would help, in a machine shop. He used his
best persuasiveness, and secured permission to leave
high school.
He had to be a mechanic: it was in his blood. His
memories of his father’s machine shop are misty,
except for impish pranks played on the workmen,
which caused him and his confederates to be chased
repeatedly up the railroad track. Oh, and there
was Popcorn Jim and being pigeon-toed: that mustn’t
be left out. The boy was noticeably pigeon-toed.
When the popcorn salesman was a hundred feet
away, he would sing out, “Toes out, bud, toes out”.
The boy would meticulously aim his toes outward,
even though this hurt, and slow up his walk. But
it cured him. It got so that the thought of Popcorn
Jim would cause him to walk with his toes out.
It cured him— and he began to figure out how it
had been done. The power of suggestion—the
power of mind over body—this was his first lesson in
its immense potency. There was another workman,
Ted Nevlin, who delighted in laying the boy on the
ground, and straddling him, while he tickled his ribs.
Little Norman was not only pigeon-toed, he stuttered
dreadfully. He couldn’t protest—and this rendered
him helpless. He steeled his soul, and cured this.
A second victory of mind over body. The power of
the mind over matter—more and more he turned his
young mind to it.
26 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
But not all the time. He stole fruit over his
neighbor’s fence repeatedly, and relished it. He did
the typical naughty things that other boys do: consult
your own memory, and fill in the details. And then
he left school, to become a man. He became one.
He pondered over the possible openings, and
entered Kerr’s Machine Shop in Muscatine, to become
a machinist and a die and tool maker.
The machine-shop apprentice found that his work
consisted in sweeping the floor, firing up the boiler,
running the engines, and from time to time working
on the intricately fascinating machines. Slowly he
mastered them. And then his chance came: and it
was his first experience with the world-dominant
group that might be called absentee industrialism—
the greedy organizing overlords who are shrewd
enough to live off of the labor and the brains of
others.
Since 1891, Muscatine had been the center of the
fresh-water pearl button industry, due to the organ­
izing genius of a German named J. F. Boepple. The
buttons were made from clam shells dug from the
river that skirted the city. It required from five
to eight separate operations to complete a button, s
When the German engineer in charge of the
Boepple Button Company’s plant resigned, the po­
sition was offered to Paul Baker, who was working
in the Kerr shop, and was known as one of the best
mechanics in the section. He asked a few days to
consider the matter, and turned it down.
It took a lot of argument to persuade Paul to rec­
ommend Norman for the job. But Norman won.
Paul recommended the younger brother. Mr. Me-
A S on of T h e Coen B elt 27
Dermott and another official of the button company
descended susperciliously to the engine room, and
asked Norman: “ Think you can handle motors of
that size ?” The boy did not answer at once; he was
intently studying the huge machines. He turned
abruptly to the three men: “I don’t know who you’ve
had in charge of these motors, but I can tell you that
if they’re placed in my charge, you’ll never see them
operating with a brush adjustment, as they now
operate. I’m surprised you haven’t burned ‘em all
to pieces, in this condition!” Now Norman Baker
knew that there was nothing wrong with the brushes;
but he was an instinctive salesman, and psychologist
enough already to be sure that McDermott didn’t
know a brush from a pulley. He thought it would
impress the potential employer. It did. The boy
got the job. He resigned from his apprenticeship
at Kerr’s, his formal training truncated as before,
and blossomed out as a full-fledged machinist and
engineer.
He made good, from the start. When static pre­
vented an unused button machine from being used/
the boy corrected this by a charred line from the
machine, over the top of the bench down the leg to
the floor, near a ground connection. He knew that
static electricity would follow a charred wood line,
where it would not follow a metallic conductor.
Meanwhile, his busy brain had made progress in
inventing an automatic button machine, that would
eliminate the use of so many devices in the manu­
facture of the commodities. He interested the
company in it, and made an agreement, whereby
they were to finance the patent and build the ma-
28 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
chine, paying him three dollars a day and letting him
reserve fifty per cent of the patent.
Meanwhile, the contract with the company still
lacked a clause stating that, when completed, the
machine would be manufactured and marketed as
the market demanded. The best Baker could secure
was the promise of a new contract, as soon as the
machine was a success.
And now, enter the woman. The first in young
Baker’s life: for, with his sense of inferiority, in
spite of its compensating braggadocio in the presence
of men, he was still shy and timid in the presence
of the mysterious sex. This girl, who worked at the
button factory, probed out his progress with the
mysterious machine, and finally revealed that she
had overheard, two days before, one of the men in­
volved say, “ Well, if it’s a success, he won’t have
anything but his salary.”
Norman'Baker saw red. He thanked the girl,
and the next morning walked into the office and
demanded the contract he had asked for all along.
Adult business men do not respect the ability of
youth; they ordered him to go back and finish the
machine, or they would force him to do it. Baker
thought quickly. Quit now, and they would no doubt
seize his chest of tools, which would cripple him in
working elsewhere. He gritted his teeth, and as­
sented. He started smuggling his tools out of the
factory that very afternoon, and had them all out
within a few days.
He bared the unfair deal to his mother. She
probed shrewdly to the heart of the problem: could
they complete the machine, if he left?— Oh, yes;
because of his blueprints. “Bring them all to me.
A S on of T he Corn B elt 29
Then you quit, and don’t worry. You’re a minor;
your contract is worthless, without my signature.
If they get out a search warrant for the drawings, I
will attend to it.”
Baker quit. To this day, he does not know what
became of the drawings. He imagines that his
mother burned them, to avoid court entanglements.
And then the young mechanic went down to James
Giesler, of the German American Savings Bank, and
told him the complete story. Giesler was also inter­
ested heavily in the Royal Button Company; and.he
told young Baker to go ahead and build the machine,
at his expense, in return for a half interest. The
disgruntled Boepple company employed a machinist
to complete Baker’s machine,'but he failed expen­
sively.
The young machinist rented floor space from the
Kerr Machine Shop, where he had 'begun as an
apprentice, and completed his first crude machine,
successfully.
The boy and his brother Paul purchased one
partner’s interest in the Vance and Meyers Boiler
and Machine Shop, and he moved his incomplete
machine over there. The banker tired at last of the
slowness with which the button machine progressed,
due to young Baker’s required presence at the reg­
ular work of the machine shop, and told the young
inventor he could drop the matter. And so it was
never finished. A friend of his, a Nick Barry,-who
manufactured button making machinery, and had
often seen the incomplete machine in Kerr’s Machine
Shop, completed his invention of a button machine,
and reaped the golden harvest it brought. Out of
it all, Norman Baker had learned another lesson,
30 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
which stood him in good stead later: when one lacks
money, it is useless for him to expect to make it
through invention, by bringing monied strangers into
the transaction. Better to let the invention lie dor­
mant, until the inventor was financially able to manu­
facture it himself. He never forgot this.
Curiously inquisitive about everything with which
he came in contact, Norman Baker, about this time,
began to grow in another direction. He had not
forgotten the object lessons of his curing his pigeon-
toedness and his stuttering by mental control. Con­
stantly he saw other evidences of the strange power
of mind over matter. It was inevitable that he
should begin exploring in this still misty hinterland
of psychology. He began to acquire a library on the
subject. Unfortunately, the books he was able to
obtain repelled him, chiefly because they were all
from religions writers, who led into the matter of
mind over the doubtful bridge of supernatural crea­
tion. Young Baker decided that the Creator, when
making each of us, gave each a handful of brains,
which he placed inside the head, leaving it to each
individual to learn how to use this so widely neglected
gift. Later on, Baker noticed how often, in the
cases of the majority of people, these brains slid
down, until people sat or walked on them: he
wondered why the Creator had not equipped man
with a diaphragm just beneath his brains, which
would prevent this leakage, and make man a real
thinking machine. Perhaps Baker pondered on in­
venting some sort of contrivance for this purpose.
If he did, he laid it aside, to go on perfecting his own
brain.
It was mental therapeutics, healing through the
A S on of T h e Corn B elt 31
power of suggestion, that intrigued him most. He
enrolled in a correspondence course on the subject,
for all that those he knew scoffingly dismissed such
manifestations as mesmerism or hypnotism, and re­
garded the ones interested in them as cranks or moon­
struck. He mastered the course, and to this day
gives it main credit for his later successes—indeed,
even for his still being alive today. When he sick­
ened seriously more than once, it was not the doctor’s
pills and potions that saved him, he is sure, but his
sheer determination not to die. He never let the
idea of death enter his mind, for or against: he
contented himself with the firm inner assertion,
“Certainly I will get well.” Not that this can neces­
sarily heal leprosy or an amputated leg: but that
the proper mental state of mind is at least a condition
prerequisite to any cure.
He began to practice the power of suggestion on
his friends, and to study the matter of personal mag­
netism. Orators and public speakers fascinated him
most: they were the living mirrors of his wish for
vocal self-expression, springing naturally out of his
ingrained sense of inferiority.. The one man he
admits envying was Herbert L. Flint, the stage
hypnotist, who brought his performance to Muscatine
every so often. Norman Baker missed none of these
performances. He never tired of admiring the large
powerful man with the smoothly modulated voice.
He suffered agonies when he contrasted his own
runty stature— for Baker was only five feet four at
this time— with the splendid appearance of the other
man.
Perhaps unknown to himself, Norman Baker at
this period was probing further and further, as well
32 D octors, Dyn a m iters and Gunmen
as he could, into the obscure depths of his own nature,
with what outside aid he could find. Healing by
suggestion, and now astrology. He has never be­
come quite a whole-hearted believer, but he still
stands a little in awe of the dogmatic insistence of
the star-doctors.
He encountered a book on astrology, and turned
to the reading of those born under the .sign of
Sagittarius, or The Archer. He read with fascina­
tion the description, and found strange points of
resemblance with his own nature and his own dreams.
“Its profession is traveling, buying and selling, com­
mercial enterprises, or anything in which the great
executive ability, penetrating foresight, and wealth
amassing characteristics of this sign can be exer­
cised. . . . Cautious, conservative, courageous in de­
fense rather than offense, self-reliant, introspective...
Its mainspring is its deep love-nature. . . . Fidelity
and faithfulness to the marriage-vow. . . . Refined
and graceful, with a quiet elegance of manner and
dress. . . . Eyes expressive and true, movements
quick, the shorter ones more robust and jovial, the
tall slender ones silent and appreciative.” Why, it
was himself to the smallest lineament! Breathlessly
he read on: “These people should guard against
intensity of application and overwork, which is liable
to cause derangement of the digestion. They should
have plenty of fresh air and not too much sedentary
occupation, or their lungs might suffer; and should
take precautions against rheumatism.. . . A mascu­
line sign ; a most fortunate sign in which to be born. ..
Independent, original, a law to themselves, and re­
gardless of others’ opinions. . . . They possess a
prophetic intuition, and have a natural inclination
A S on of T h e Corn B elt 33
toward higher aims than some of their neighbors,
which fact should make them very thankful and not
at all conceited. . . . Where much is given them,
much is required. . . . These are the Archer people,
who generally hit the mark. . . . Still surer are they
of hitting the mark, when in anger they hurl an
accusation or sarcasm invariably at the weakest spot
of their opponent’s armor.”
He was memorizing it, as he read it. “—An inherent
faculty for amassing wealth. Not in speculation,
like Libra, but cautiously, wisely and farseeingly, for
they are always shooting their arrows far ahead, and
then more than likely wearing themselves out trying
to keep up with them. . . . The emergency people;
they seem to know by instinct what to do in cases of
sudden danger or untoward occurrences. Often of
a seemingly timid or indifferent nature, they will rise
at such times to heights of heroism and presence of
mind which will astonish every one, including them­
selves. . . . This nature conserves wealth. . . . Go
too far, offend their pride or their self-love, in other
words invade their own territory, and instant and
utter rout may be expected. Their shafts are un­
answerable, and their defense perfect. Their motto
is, Touch me not. . . . They read human nature well,
and take advantage of others’ experience in the past,
the habits of the present, and prophetic insight into
the future. . . . ”
The young man held his head proudlier. He
could not stop, now. “They throw their whole force
and strength into whatever they are doing. . . . A
nervous irritability. . . . For their own peace of
mind they should make themselves morally sure of
every statement they make. .. . They hate anything
34 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
underhand or secret, even going so far at times as
to disapprove strongly of secret societies. . . . The
most devoted of friends, and likewise bitter enemies,
though their better nature usually restrains them from
acts of violence. . . . A natural inclination toward
purity of thought and action, the fundamental cause
of their physical power and endurance. Their physi­
cal strength is greater than that of any people born
under any other sign. . . . They love music. . . .
Naturally religious and home-loving.”
He read it to the end, and nodded. It was what
he had been looking for. His dreams, his nature
to the last dotting of an i and the last crossing of a
t, his achievements so far, his certainty of what he
sensed that his future would be.
Norman Baker sold out his interest in the machine
shop to his partners. Something urged him forth, and
he had to obey the call. He told the family that he
was old enough to stride out into the world, to learn
more than that two by four town could teach him.
He faced the assembled family for the moment of
parting.
His mother was sobbing openly. The situation
grew strained.
Paul, the older brother, spoke abruptly. “Oh,
let him go. He’ll be glad to come back home for
some of ma’s biscuits.”
The soul of little Norman Baker stiffened harshly.
He said his goodbyes; and, as he walked down the
walk to the front gate, suitcase in hand, he made up
his mind that we would starve to death before he
came back for some of “ ma’s biscuits.”
When he came back, it Was a different Norman
Baker the family saw from the little man who had
left.
In his ’teens.
C H A P T E R I I
THE FAR SIDE OF THE FOOTLIGHTS
Norman Baker’s wanderyears, as a machinist
seeking wider experience, lasted altogether about
two years. During this time, in place after place in
Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, he secured brief employ­
ment in the largest machine shops he could find an
opening in, and left when the urge to wander shook
him again. It was always machine shops, and not
manufacturing concerns, because already he visual­
ized for himself a role other than that of a mere
mechanical tender of a machine, specialized into the
hideous monotony of doing one act forever, until
death snapped his contract of employment. A son
of Sagittarius the Archer, whose arrows unerringly
went to their mark: only let him aim high enough,
and any target he chose would be riven by his unfail­
ing aim.
It was while he was working for a die and tool
company, in Cincinnati, working for several weeks
upon a die for pressing out a spring washer to be used
as an attachment for repeating the playing of a
cylinder record on an old Edison phonograph, that
he determined to leave the tiresome field for good
and all. There was one man living he envied, Pro­
fessor Flint, who gave stage mental shows, as they
were called in popular parlance: performances fea­
turing the power of mental suggestion. Whoever one
envies, one wants to be, or to excel. And so Norman
Baker determined to outdo Flint in his own field. No
36
The F ab Side of the F ootlights 37
one but a genius could have succeeded. Norman
Baker succeeded.
He secured, for his advance publicity man, an am­
bitious clerk in a man’s furnishing store, who sched­
uled Baker’s opening performance at Coal Valley,
Illinois. Baker rehearsed his opening twenty-min­
ute speech until he had it letter perfect. ‘The town
held a few hundred; the audience, drawn from miles
around, was nearer a thousand. Baker had four
boys scattered throughout the audience, ready to be
the subjects of his demonstrations if no volunteers
arose. The last few moments almost broke Baker’s
nerve. He secured a pint of whispet, a moment be­
fore he was to appear on the stage, and swallowed
half of it. The thought of having this show flop,
when he owed hotel bills for the whole company, and
when his own future depended on it, almost floored
him.
Curtain. He could not get to the center of thé
stage, where he had planned to start his speech. Half-
hidden in the wings, he began: “ Ladies and—”
Stage-fright swept over him : he could not remember
another word. To hell with his memorized selection!
“ Folks,’’ he said, thickly— and the homely word
loosened his tongue. He talked straight out to them,
just his own thoughts : the audience listened tensely,
and went wild with enthusiastic applause time and
again before he finished. He never made a better
speech, than that opening night, and ovér the radio,
after these long years he still starts out with
“ Folks.”
One hundred and fifty dollars to the good, from
that first town. On to town after town, until they
began to blur in his memory, so many of them there
38 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
were. Finally to Springfield, Ohio. He hired a pro­
fessional theatrical manager, became dissatisfied
with the results, and discharged him. In Sedalia,
Missouri, he went broke first, after discouraging
drops in receipts in many places. He owed seventy
dollars in back pay to the troupe; and there was a
girl in the' troupe, whom Baker felt obligated to send
back to her home, at least. When a lodge he had
joined refused to lend him money on his paid-up
membership card, as was Baker’s right, he tore up
the card, and since then has never been inside one of
the lodge’s halls. Money was borrowed from another
lodge, to -which the girl’s brother belonged, and she
went home. Baker lived for three days in Sedalia
on a dime and a nickel—five cents a day. He pawned
his watch, and landed in St. Louis, in a depression
year.
He had to have ■work. A nickelodian wanted a
moving picture operator. Baker had never examined
such a machine in his life. But he visited the Lubin
cinema store and had a machine demonstrated; im­
provised a past as operator; and secured the job.
After twenty minutes work, he was discharged for
inefficiency, being paid twenty cents for his trouble.
Before night, he had secured a second job as operator
at Manions Park, a small amusement park, with a
moving picture theatre inside a tent. Here, by im­
proving the light thrown, Baker cinched his job.
Within a few weeks, Baker had a better paying posi­
tion in a theatre, and was a full-fledged operator.
January of 1904 was bitter cold in St. Louis.
Baker worked with coat off and shirt unbuttoned in
the hot booth: plug hat and boiled shirt were in
eclipse. He formed the habit of stepping outside
The F ab Side op the F ootlights 39
and standing in the opened doorway, to cool off.
Pneumonia resulted. He was rooming upstairs with
the Jewish manager of the theatre and his family,
and they put him to bed. , His fever rose to a hundred
and six, although he never quite lost consciousness.
The doctor, a Doctor Moore, came in one morning at
eleven, and gravely studied his thermometer.
“We’ve got to do something for that fever,” he said
absently. “I’ll be back at two.” He turned to the
nurse, his voice sank lower. “Better get the name
of his people, and his home address.” He shook his
head gravely, and departed.
Norman Baker had not forgotten his belief in the
power of mental suggestion in healing. He kept
assuring himself he was not sick, even though he
could not lift his head from the bed. He was not
ready to go back for ma’s biscuits yet. He refused
to give his address, or let the nurse write to his
people. The nurse brought in a large dish of ice­
cream, from the manager’s wife. The doctor returned
at two: the fever was broken! “ What in the world
did you do to him? I never saw. a fever break that
fast.” The nurse shrugged vacuously: “ Nothing,
except I gave him a dish of ice cream.” “Who told
you to?” “ She gave it to me,” pointing to the Jew­
ish landlady. The doctor’s face grew livid: “ That’s
mighty close to murder! A person that sick hasn’t
a chance in a hundred of living, after eating ice
cream!” Plumptly she shrugged: “ That’s nothing,
Doctor. I always give ice cream to my children when
they got a fever.” It wasn’t the medical profession
that saved him, this time: it was the Jewish land­
lady’s dish of ice cream, plus his granite determina­
tion to get well. The power of mind oyer body . . . .
40 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Norman Baker still mourns that he lacked the
fifteen dollars to pay the doctor. He stands ready
to repay him today, if he will emerge and identify
himself.
As he lay there sick, and then recovering, he could
hear the nasal voice of the song plugger downstairs
singing the illustrated song. It seemed strangely
prophetic, the maudlin lyric:
Playmates were they, girl and lad.
She’s home today, lad feels sad.
Doctor who calls whispers low,
“When the last Autumn leaves fall, then she must go."
Lad with a tear climbs a tree.
“I’ll keep her here," murmurs he.
Big man in blue sternly cries,
“What are you doing there?” Lad replies:
And then the haunting chorus:
“I'm tying the leaves so they won’t come down,
So the wind won’t blow them away;
For the best little girl in the wide wide world
Is lying so ill today.
Her young life must go when the last leaves fall,
I’m fixing them fast so they’ll stay;
I’m tying the leaves so they won’t come down,
So Nellie won't go away.”
Luckily, the little lady takes a turn for the better,
the jubilant doctor announces that his deciduous
prophecy was a mis-diagnosis, and all ends cheer­
fully. To this day, during his hectic work or driving
along in a humming or whistling mood, Norman
Baker recurs to I’m Tying the Leaves So They Won’t
Come Down.
Out of bed young Baker stumbled at last. He
had weighed a hundred and fifty, before he was
taken sick; he weighed two pounds less than a
hundred, now. But it was all pure grit and determi­
nation. Hecpored over the want ads, and found one
The F ae Side of the F ootlights 41
for a sign painter. The old sideburned gentleman
in the office he called at decided to give him a chance,
in spite of his sunken cheeks and sickly appearance.
His business was painting and selling glass signs with
house numbers, to go over the front doors. Baker
expanded on his imaginery experience as a sign
painter. A trial convinced the man that he had at
best a would-be painter; but tender-heartedly he
kept Baker on to rough in the numbers.
On the second day, he came in with a five dollar
bill and a doctor’s card. “Go to this man, and have
him give you a thorough examination.” It seemed
queer to Baker; but he went. He was told to strip,
and for an hour the doctor thumped and pounded his
whole chest, back and front. “You want my candid
opinion?” “Of course.” “Go home and arrange
your earthly possessions. You can’t live six months.
You have one lung that isn’t worth a plugged nickle.
Cigarettes?” “Oh, yes.” “Go on smoking them,
and they’ll bury you in three months.” “What’s
exactly the matter with me?” “Tuberculosis.”
Baker returned to roughing in his signs. That
night, he concentrated strongly on the fact that he
did not have tuberculosis, and was going to get well.
He recalled a friend in Muscatine, of his age, who had
been told the same doleful tidings. This boy gave up
the fight, and died in three months. Baker de­
termined that'that would never happen to him.
He was broke. He shared a room at a dollar and
a half a week with a man who really had tuberculosis,
with the habit of coughing and spitting every quarter
of an hour right on the uncuspidored floor.
At the end of the first week, when his six dollars
came in for sign-painting, he moved into his own
42 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen '
room, at a dollar and a half a week, with what seemed
to be most of the bedbugs in St. Louis thrown in free
of charge. He fought the pests, he took no medi­
cines and relied on his mental concentration. One
day, walking down a side street, he saw a penny
scale. He dropped in a slim cent, and saw the
pointer rise to one hundred forty three and a half
pounds. He read the dial on the scales: his normal
weight should have been one hundred forty three.
By God, he was getting well— he was already over­
weight !
Within a few months, he returned to Muscatine.
He was the picture of robust health again, he had
money in his pockets, he had had experiences more
varied than any of his immediate family. He did
not mention to any in his family the gruelling seige
of sickness he had passed through: he was afraid his
parents would not let him leave home again, if he
did—in spite of the fact that he was well beyond his
legal majority. His brothers and sisters will learn *
of this illness for the first time from this book.
He did try, however, to communicate to certain
members of his family and his hometown friends just
what he was about, in these performances starring
mental suggestion.
Mental telepathy—that was what you ought to
call it. That certainly existed; all psychologists of,
any standing admitted that. Norman Baker had
proved repeatedly, on the stage and off, that it ex­
isted. Not at all times and under all circumstances,
no; as a rule, you had to have people unusually sensi­
tive, to receive these wordless wireless messages.
It was somehow akin, Norman said, to what people
called inspiration; to vivid dreams that bordered on
The F ar Side of the F ootlights 43
what was going to happen; to doing things on an
intuition, or on a hunch.
Norman Baker began studying his intuitions or
hunches as they came, and comparing what resulted
or would have resulted, if he followed them, with, the
result/if he had dallied to act on what others called
sober second thought. He found that, in his case at
least, his hunches were accurate, and that he gained
most if he followed them. And from that time he has
never failed to do so. He who hesitates is lost, has
been his motto: and so he has not hesitated, and has
not lost. If a salesman -came to sell him stock, and
asked half an hour to explain his proposition, within
five minutes Baker felt he knew the whole proposi­
tion, and was ready to say Yes or No to it then. In
view of his own sensitive intuitive nature, this is the
wise thing for him to do.
He has gone through life,' specializing in such >
matters, on the borderland of accepted psychology:
and when he ultimately writes a book on the theme,
it will startle many by its forward vision; he will be
told that he is wrong—when all the time he will
merely be twenty years ahead of his time. He has
had dreams that appear to be prophetic, which have
invariably come true. Baker is one of the world’s
sentitives: and his realizing this, and acting on it,
gives him a powerful weapon most people lack.
When he has brought the subjective minds of
people under his control, he has found out repeatedly
how profoundly he could affect them, as in curing
headaches in public performances. He has never
failed.
Why, he pondered, could mind control the body
so? He found an analogy that suited him. If a per-
44 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
son were bedridden with a bursting headache, and
suddenly saw a blaze licking its way into the room
above the only exit from the place, he would rush
out of the room and never be aware of the headache.
The thing that caused the headache was still there:
but the excitement of the fire caused him to con­
centrate so utterly on it, that this automatically ex­
cluded from the mind all other considerations.
Sometimes he would paint the picture of the mind
by saying that there were two minds, the objective
and the subjective— the objective capable of intelli­
gent reasoning, the subjective one incapable. As
long as the objective mind is allowed to function, the
subjective mind is its obedient servant, unquestioning.
The mind is a house with one door, and that door
is guarded by the objective mind; while inside is
the servant, the subjective mind. During a state of
waking, this relationship continues, with both minds
alert and active. When the objective mind sleeps,
the never-sleeping subjective mind has its inning.
The control of heart and breathing and nerve-sensa­
tion is left to the subjective mind: otherwise we would
die, when sleep eclipses the objective mind. Let
a salesman approach the house and say to the sentinel
at the door, “I want to sell you a broom. Your floors
are dirty,” the alert objective mind would retort,
“But my floors are clean: I don’t need your broom.”
Once let this objective mind be lulled to sleep, and
the subjective mind could easily (lacking intelligent
reasoning) be convinced that the floor was dirty,
and gratefully it would favor the purchase of the
broom. Let the salesman tell the objective mind to
take the broom and sweep the floor, and it would say
aloofly that the floor did not need sweeping; but
T he F ar S ide of th e F ootlights 45
the servilely obedient subjective mind, if the broom
were handed it, would at once begin sweeping.
Mature thoughts, these, for a young man of twenty-
one. But they were Norman Baker’s thoughts then,
and the passing years have only deepened, and not
corrected, them. He learned to keep most of them
to himself, except when he was in the presence of
sympathetic hearers, willing to learn. Meanwhile,
he got things in order for his second venture in the
amusement field, as his method of education by
shows featuring mental therapeutics was called.
He then farewelled the family again, and started out.
The little towns in southern Indiana, first; and
then to Carrollton, Kentucky (population, 1930,
twenty four hundred and nine), at the point where
the Kentucky River debouched into the Ohio. The
manager advance agent, a Jewish chap named Ben­
nett, had been here already for two weeks, billing
the river town for a week’s showing. Bennett was
a likable chap, with a crippled little finger, who
could not read a note of music, but could play any­
thing you could whistle. The five or six inthe troupe,
with their seven or eight trunks, arrived from south­
ern Indiana at Cairo, Illinois, to take the steamer,
the City of Cincinnati, up the Ohio to Carrollton. It
was the year of the peak flood on the Ohio.
Already Baker had picked out Bennett standing on
the barge: he greeted him, the two stood watching
the steamer’s departure. When it had gotten a hun­
dred yards away, Bennett turned abruptly to his em­
ployer. “ We can’t play here.” “ We—what!’’ Ben­
nett shrugged: “ The whole damn town’s flooded.
There’s two feet of water in the opera house.”
46 D octors, Dyn a m iters and Gunmen
“ Well, you.— ” Add your own profanity; Baker
used it, and more.
It was Sunday, about noon. A two weeks’ hotel
bill hung over Bennett already. The troupe was
broke again; there was not ten dollars in the whole
crowd. The regular ferryman would not take them
across the river, to a place from which they could
splash their way by buggy to Cincinnati. Baker
sauntered dejectedly down the river bank. Here was
aInegro, pulling into shore in a flat boat. ‘‘What ’ll
you charge to row us across'?’’ “ Wall, boss, if you-all
is sho you kin swim, I’ll git you over somehow for
fo’ bits.” Four bits— fifty cents . . . . He was
bringing the mail over from the Indiana side, he ex­
plained. Baker did not hesitate: “Take you up on
that.” He hurried back to the hotel. The hotel
manager stiffly retained all the luggage; no, the
young lady could not even have a clean shirt-waist
from her grip: he knew them theatrical people.
Desolately Baker and the girl got into the boat, and
got across the mile-wide river, with a shrieking wind
blowing and whitecaps two feet high and the strong­
est current ever known on the river.
' It took until midnight to reach Cincinnati, with
endless delays, because tracks were flooded and the
train had to be shunted around through Dayton.
Cincinnati seemed under water too. A sympathe­
tic landlady at last took them in, after midnight as
it was.
Baker made contact with a theatre boat, on a fifty-
fifty basis. After a semi-successful season up the
locked river into the hills of Kentucky, Baker, with
an enlarged troupe, went broke at Columbus, Ohio.
A few weeks in a machine shop, and he took a show
T h e F ae S ide of th e F ootlights 47
out again. He decided to feature a young lady in a
mental act similar to that of Anna Eva Fay, touted
as the world’s greatest mind reader. He invented the
cryptic magnetic name MADAME PEARL TANG-
LEY, which he was sure would bring him good luck.
After dreadful experiences, he found a printer who
would do his printing on credit—W. H. Wilton, of
Cincinnati. Came the opening night, with Baker’s
lecture better than ever. The act was a great suc­
cess, from the start.
Jump forward a few years. First chance in New
York City, in the National Theatre used by the Mar-,
cus Loew booking office for trying out acts for its
vaudeville circuit. Just as MADAME TANGLEY
correctly read what was written on the blackboard
behind her, which she had never seen, a professional
cleaner-up of so-called thought-transference acts rose
and denounced the whole performance. Like light­
ning Baker offered the man one chance' to trap
MADAME TANGLEY. The man named his terms
-^-he to write down numbers, unseen to the audience,
and lay them face down on the floor—and then she
to read them. Baker agreed, provided the audience
jotted down what MADAME TANGLEY called out,
and had a chance to compare them with what the
man had written, as soon as she.had called the num­
bers out. She made not a single mistake.
The act was hurried to its end, and resulted in all
the contracts that Baker had dreamed of: full week
stands in the Marcus Loew theatres, and the first act
ever to rate this! But here was more trouble: a Mr.
Savoy, from the Boston Society for Physical Re­
search, inviting MADAME TANGLEY to appear for
experiment before that body. He had seen all the
48 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
mental acts, he said, Anna Eva Fay, the Zanzigs, the
White Mahatma and the rest, and she alone could
stand an investigation.
Luckily for Baker, his act was tied up for several
weeks to come. When he had made this clear, the
gentleman nonchalantly said that they would prefer
that Baker should not come with her. When Baker
said he must come, but would absent himself from
the city for the hour of the test, the gentleman made
it clear he did not want a case of mental telepathy by
hypnosis. Baker used this as an easy out, and the
test never took place.
During its ten years of successful presentation, the
act never had an expose. But there were enough
problems that it called forth.
C H A P T E R I I I
THE CALLIAPHONE AND PUBLIC UTILITIES
The popularity of the act increased, until it was
drawing three hundred a week; and then Baker
refused to play vaudeville houses any longer, and
went out and booked his attraction on a percentage
basis. It never had one losing week in all this time;
the closest it came to this was in Roseburg, Oregon
(population, 1930 census, four thousand, three
hundred sixty two) where, after paying all expenses
and salaries, it netted fifty-eight cents for Baker.
Baker still resents some of the petty grafts he
encountered, in these years of theatrical work. In
the long glitter of his life, they are the least im­
portant things about it.
And now it became clear that they were going to
have to lose MADAME TANGLEY, and must find
another. They moved down to New York City, and
Baker placed an advertisement in the New York
papers; for a secretary to travel.
H e ch o se, fro m a m o n g m a n y a p p lica n ts, one of th e
tw o co lle g e -b re d g ir ls , a T h e re s a P in d e r, sev en teen
o r e ig h te e n a t th e tim e , a n d ju s t g ra d u a te d fro m
W o o s te r C o lleg e, in M a s s a c h u s e tts , th o u g h h e r p a r ­
e n ts liv e d in N ew J e r s e y .
B a k e r n e v e r h a d a m o re s a tis f a c to r y s te n o g ra p h e r:
h e r sp e e d o f d icta tio n so f a r h e h as n e v e r seen
e q u a le d , an d th is w a s a ll-e sse n tia l w ith a m an w ho
ta lk e d lik e a cy clo n e to ld to sp eed it up.
A n d so T h e r e s a P in d e r jo in e d th e tro u p e of fo u r,
49
50 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
when they departed for the Reading, Pennsylvania,
theatre on the Wilbur and Vincent circuit. For three
or four weeks she did the correspondence splendidly,
staying at the hotel, and showing no interest what­
ever in the theatre. Finally she was coaxed to attend
a matinee, and give the company the benefit of her
criticism. At supper Baker asked her for her report
on the act. “I don’t want to mention it. It could'
only make you angry.” Baker promised that this
would not be the case. “How long have you and this
young lady been doing this act?” she asked abruptly.
“For years.” Her expression hardened: “I have
never in all my life heard anyone who slaughtered
the English language as you and this young lady do.
It’s a positive butchery. I can’t understand how
you’ve obtained the reputation you have. You say
seen for saw, them for those, all the commonest
vulgarisms.”
It hurt; but Baker gritted his teeth, and took it.
He made a pact with his secretary, by which she was
to correct the grammar of the performance in private;
and from the start it showed a marked improvement.
Soon the original MADAME TANGLEY had to retire
from the company; and nothing would do but the
new secretary must take her place. It was in Phila­
delphia. The first Pearl had been tall and slim; the
secretary was short, and none of the costumes would
fit her. She finally adjusted the costumes to her
size, and the night of the first performance of the
new Pearl arrived. She excelled the original Pearl
in everything.
Before the year was up, in Buffalo, the two of them
decided to get married. Her father, of course, had
to be present, to play the organ in the minister’s
T h e Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities 51
house: she was always a “daddy’s girl.” Married
at eleven A. M.—though Baker would have pre­
ferred a police judge or a mayor, and no music, as
containing less hypocrisy; and then the father saw
his daughter’s performance at the two-thirty mati­
nee. They crossed the continent more than once,
and dipped into Canada again, with the young wife
continuing to star in her gemlike role. And then, in
May of 1914, they drifted back to Muscatine for a
summer’s vacation. They rented a lovely house, and
the father, an unusual preacher who had preached
in a local church in New Jersey, came West to live
with them. He was a musician as well, organist,
and an excellent piano and organ repairman and
tuner: and English to the core.
Well, the schedule called for a fall opening in
Chicago vaudeville houses, instead of playing the
theatres on ■
a percentage basis. Baker desired a
musical instrument to be used for outdoor advertising
purposes; there were none on the market except
hand organs and electric bell instruments, which
latter had been played to death, and offended the
esthetic ear by being more of a noise-maker than a
musical instrument. No doubt the presence of a wife
who was a pianist, and a father-in-law who was an
organist and more, spurred Baker, with his inferiority
complex, to demonstrate his aptitude in music, though
he had no musical education. Besides, in Muscatine
his brother and Vance still operated the machine
shop which Norman Baker had had an interest in
until May, 1903.
So Norman Baker loafed around the machine shop,
and pondered and tinkered, and suddenly produced
what he named at once the TANGLEY AIR CALLI-
52 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
O P E , p la y e d w ith a ir p re s s u re in ste a d of ste a m . No
m ore c o a l, d irt, g r i m e : a n d , cru d e as h is firs t in stru ­
m en t w as, it w o rk e d s p le n d id ly . O n e d a y th e in­
v e n to r w as tu n in g it. T w o b lo ck s a w a y J a m e s P a t ­
terso n , o w n e r o f P a tte r s o n ’s C a rn iv a l C o m p a n y , w as
lo ca te d on a v a c a n t lo t. H e h e a rd th e m u s ic ,'w a n ­
d ered a ro u n d , a n d o ffe re d fiv e h u n d re d a t o n ce fo r
it. N o rm a n so ld it, fig u rin g h e co u ld build a b e tte r
m ach in e fo r h im s e lf b e fo re f a l l : f o r th is w a s only
Ju n e .
H e b u ilt th e se co n d in stru m e n t, m u ch im p ro v ed ,
an d sold it. T h e sa m e th in g h a p p e n e d to th e im ­
p ro v ed th ird o n e . W h e n S e p te m b e r c a m e , w ith th e
th e a tric a l o p e n in g n o t f a r a w a y , h e h a d a lre a d y
se v e ra l o rd e rs on h a n d . C e rta in y o u n g m e m b e rs of
th e M u sca tin e C h a m b e r of C o m m e rce , w h o w e re in
op p osition to th e o ld e r an d m o re co n s e rv a tiv e C om ­
m e rcia l Club o f th e p la c e , u rg e d N o rm a n to d ro p out
of th e th e a tr ic a l b u sin ess, a n d s ta r t a little fa c to ry
in M u sca tin e to b u ild th e s e n e w m u sica l in stru m en ts.
H e to o k th e s u g g e s tio n , a n d b e ca m e a m a n u fa c tu re r
in ste a d of a p e rfo rm e r.
Soon h e h a d re n a m e d th e in stru m e n t th e C allia-
p h one. H e b e g a n in a sm a ll sh op w ith six o r seven
m en w o rk in g , w ith his w ife in c h a rg e o f th e o ffice,
aid ed only b y a sin g le s te n o g r a p h e r : an d it w a s a
p a r t tim e jo b f o r h e r, a t th a t. B a k e r a t o n ce p la ce d
ad s in th e B illb o a rd , th e m a g a z in e fo r th e a tr ic a l
p e o p le ; an d sin ce 1 9 1 4 n o t a w eek h a s e la p se d w ith ­
ou t su ch an a d v e rtis e m e n t. T h e g ro ss sa le s d u rin g
th ese y e a rs h a v e to ta lle d o v e r a m illion an d a h alf
d o lla rs. T h e w h o le w o rld k n ow s of th e m u sical
in stru m en ts, th e o n ly n e w ton e k e y b o a rd -p la y e d
in stru m en ts in v e n te d in th e la st fo rty y e a rs . A t
T h e Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities 53
first, of course, the instruments were designed to be
played by hand; later Baker added an automatic
player, and both types of machines are still manu­
factured, amply guarded by seven patents.
And now Norman Baker began to learn, at first
hand, about business men and capitalists and bank­
ers : for he was an embryonic capitalist himself, and
his career must bring him in contact with the old
stale eggs in the business. He equipped his small
calliope factory with motors, machinery, materials:
and this left him short financially. Manufacturing
and selling were moving briskly, but practically all
the instruments- were sold on a conditional sales
contract, with a small amount paid down and the
balance over a period ranging from six months to a
year and a half. There were three thousand dollars
worth of orders on hand, and fifteen hundred dollars
worth of C. O. D. shipments already out. An instru­
ment was in the railroad yards, crated for shipment
by express to the Sun Brothers Circus. Baker figured
that he needed a loan of three hundred and fifty
dollars, for the ensuing Saturday, to meet his payroll,
if the occasion arose: for he had never been back­
ward in paying his help, and did not intend to be.
When his own bank would not advance, the money,
he walked over to the Hershey Bank, met the presi­
dent and cashier, got them down to the factory; and,
once they had seen what he had to show, they told
him to write his check and they would honor it.
Luckily, the next day’s mail brought six or seven
hundred dollars from previous C. 0. D. consign­
ments, and he did not even have to get a loan.
The Calliaphone, invented and manufactured
by Mr. Baker. Millions have heard this instrument
which is used on automobiles for outdoor advertising
by national advertisers. It is heard nightly from
radio station XENT, Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.
T he Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities 55
Before he was through with the First National
Bank, he notified all to whom he owed money that
they need not deposit his notes for collection in the
offending bank, and altogether it cost them a lot to
buck the calliope manufacturer. Meanwhile, his
Calliaphones were touting the virtues of skating rinks,
circuses, road theatrical companies, amusement
parks, Nehi, candies, flour, Chicken Dinners, auto­
mobiles, bread, Toddy, Nie-Nac, ginger ales, chewing
gum, county and state fairs, carnivals, miniature golf
courses, cinema features, cough drops, theatres, and
so interminably on.
One day, while Baker and his wife were sitting
quietly in the office, he turned to her abruptly. “It’s
strange, we certainly get along nicely together; but
both of us have a feeling that something is wrong.”
They discussed it thoughtfully. “If we are to get
a divorce,” she said at last, “it ought to be now,
while we’re both young.”
He agreed. Within fifteen minutes they phoned
to their attorney, Herbert Thompson. He came right
over. “We want to get a divorce, Herbert,” Baker
told him.
The lawyer laughed hugely. “Sure, I’ll get it for
you right away.” It required half an hour to con­
vince him. that they were not joking. Five years
without a quarrel or serious disagreement, and con­
templating a divorce! People didn’t act that sanely.
Finally he became serious, and said that the proper
grounds, under the Iowa law, would have to be in­
compatibility. The wife was to apply, and throw
the brunt on the husband. Early in 1916 the applica­
tion was made to the district court at Muscatine.
/
56 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
For seven weeks the judge held up his decree: no
doubt he knew how much the two parties respected
each other, and the whole matter must have had him
puzzled.
It took twenty minutes, without an argument, to
divide the property. The Delaware farm for instance,
was to go to the husband, because the wife preferred
quicker assets. She returned to the eastern city,
where her father had a truck farm on Long Island;
and requested her husband to allow her to withdraw
the application, and let him make it, to save her the
return trip to Muscatine. This was done, and the
divorce granted.
The reason for the divorce was simple: the parties
were too similar. The wife was a positive character,
and a business manager; and so was the husband.
Two like poles repulse each other; two unlike poles
alone attract each other. She liked entertainment
in her home, dancing, horseback riding; Baker cared
for none of these, and asked only a bathing suit and
a boat.
Baker had neglected to have his wife deed her in­
terest in the Delaware farm to him, till after the
divorce. His attorney berated him, and said that
Mrs. Baker would never do it. Baker quietly asked
for the deed, sent it to his wife, received it properly
executed as soon as the details could be attended to.
Their friendship continued, even after the divorce.
On one occasion, when she was injured in an automo­
bile accident, Baker promptly telegraphed a hundred
dollars to her. When a friend who proposed to her
said that this was strange, she pointed to his hat and
coat, and showed him the door. She selected her
second husband carefully, making sure that he was
T he Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities 57
a negative pole to her positive one this time, and is
now happily married, holding an important position
as a court reporter. . .
Norman Baker has never remarried. He had
passed his half century now; and he says that, when
he is through fighting and is able to settle down to
a serene' old age, he intends to marry again. Or
sooner. Only, this time he will be sure it is the
negative to his positive: And no plucked eyebrows,
if you please.
Norman Baker was only a few years beyond thirty
when he parted company amicably with his wife, and
turned to being a smalltime manufacturer in a small
town. But notice that already he was a marked
man, a different man from any man in Muscatine,
in Iowa, in America, in the world. The sum total of
what he had done made him unique: he walked the
streets already a man of mystery, of glamor, of
romance. Son of a machinist, listed as no better
than a second by the inefficient school factory, he
had become a successful inventor and, God bless us,
a wholesale manufacturer of air-pressure calliopes,
the first that the world had ever known. More than
this, he had been on the stage: the halo of footlights,
successful road companies, mastery of the mental
hinterlands which all of us shiver with dread before,
all this was on his brow. Distinction enough for
most men: not for Norman Baker. His career had
barely begun, whether the stars had the details of it
plotted, or merely had scrawled opposite his name,
This man will do world-shaking things.
For the next five years, or until 1920, the Callia­
phone business flourished. Baker had eight or ten
58 D octobs, D yn am iteks and Gunmen
employees in his little factory, working night and
day; he sold his instruments as fast as he could turn
them out. He had begun to make enemies, too—
all due to his firm insistence upon fair dealings from
all. The local newspaper, the Muscatine Journal,
was a member of the small Lee syndicate of papers,
with affiliated papers in Mason City, Iowa; Lincoln,
Nebraska; Madison, Wisconsin; two in•
Davenport,
Iowa; and a few more. The pian in control was one
Adler, of Davenport, who blandly published both
the Republican Times and the Davenport Democrat
in his home town, in order to get the voters coming
and going, and make both dance to the same selfish
tune. About 1915, this Muscatine Journal printed
an advertisement of Baker's incorrectly: firmly he
insisted that they reprint it free of charge. From that
moment, they were out gunning for him: even the
tiny myrmidons of greed resent independence and
backbone in a man.
He found another enemy worth fighting, and went
to the contest with gusto. The local Light and Power
Company, at this time, had a monopoly on supplying
the city with electricity: public service for private
profit. Baker’s factory had to get its light and
power from the company. Baker figured carefully
the cost to him of the company’s constant cutting off
the current. When this had totalled a hundred dol­
lars, he demanded it of the company, and was re­
fused. Baker then promised to make the company
pay a thousand dollars for each dollar it owed him.
Before he had finished with them, he did.
The company was trying to raise the five cent
street car fare to ten cents; Baker led the fight
against this. The business men, the American
Main
building
of
Muscatine,
Iowa,
municipally
owned
light
plant.
60 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
L e g io n , sid ed w ith th e u tilitie s c o m p a n y . A n e le c ­
tion w as ca lle d . B a k e r e x p o s e d th e false p ro p a g a n d a
of th e o th e r sid e. T h e c o m p a n y w on th e e le ctio n .
B a k e r ’s s u p p o rte rs o rg a n iz e d a m o v e m e n t f o r a
m u n icip ally -o w n ed u tilitie s p la n t. T h is w a s w on b y
B a k e r ’s fo rc e s , b y a la n d slid e o f th re e to o n e. T h e
m u n icip al p la n t lo w e re d th e lig h t r a te e ig h ty p e r
cen t. T h e p r iv a te co m p a n y u ltim a te ly sw allo w ed a
loss of $ 7 5 0 ,0 0 0 an d m o v e d o u t. B a k e r fo u g h t
a g a in s t g iv in g a w a y c ity p r o p e r ty c o n s ta n tly , an d
w on each tim e.
In J u ly , 1 9 2 0 , a fire d e s tro y e d h is e n tire f a c t o r y ;
h e fou n d h is in s u ra n c e c o m p a n ie s w e re in p a r t b a n k ­
r u p t; he co u ld o n ly p a y b a ck a d v a n c e d e p o sits on
calliap h o n es o rd e re d . T h e b u sin e ss w a s w ip ed o u t
B a k e r ’s ow n life h a d b een e n d a n g e re d , f o r h e w as
sleep in g in th e b u ild in g w h en th e fire b ro k e o u t. A n d
th en , B a k e r saw a tra m p a r t i s t te a c h tin tin g p ic tu re s
w ith oil p a in ts , an d h e h a d th e m a n te a c h h im th e
trick . F iv e d o lla rs it c o s t h im . H e h a d a v is io n o f a
la rg e a r t co rre s p o n d e n c e sch o o l, w ith th o u sa n d s of
stu d en ts all o v e r th e w o rld p a in tin g a t h o m e , w h ile
B a k e r sold th em th e h o m e c o u rs e o f in s t r u c t i o n .. . A n
en d less ch a in o f m e rc h a n d is in g , Avhereby h e w ou ld
m a rk e t f o r th e se s tu d e n ts th e ir p a in te d e n la rg e ­
m en ts, an d a t th e sa m e tim e sell to th e m th e g la ss,
th e fra m e s , th e p a p e r e v e n . T h e stu d e n ts, o n ce h a v ­
in g m a ste re d th e te ch n iq u e , co u ld p a in t e n la rg e m e n ts
of k o d ak p ic tu re s o f th e ir n e ig h b o rs , an d ro ll u p a
tid y p ro fit; to B a k e d w o u ld co m e th e tu itio n fe e s, th e
p ro fit fo r e n la rg in g th e p ic tu r e s , th e p ro fit fro m th e
sale of th e m a te ria ls . E v e r y d o lla r th e stu d e n ts
e arn ed w ou ld p a y its to ll to th e B a k e r till.
A n d y e t, B a k e r h a d on ly fiv e h u n d re d to s ta r t
T he Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities <61
with; and so he interested a Mr. Walter Luellen, a
promoter of oil and other stocks in Muscatine, in the
venture. He agreed to furnish a second five
hundred; he dallied, and Baker went ahead without
him. This was the end of 1920. Before the end
of 1921 had rolled around, the business showed the
impressive profit of seventeen thousand dollars from
the Tangley School, which taught art by correspon­
dence ; the next year netted twenty-two thousand to
the Baker till. Students throughout the United
States and many foreign countries learned, in ten
lessons by mail, even though unequipped with
especial artistic talent, to turn out beautiful oil
paintings. The postal investigators pried into the
project, and gave it a clean bill of health. The son
of Sagittarius was at it again.
Like an endless chain it worked. As soon as the
students learned to paint, they would ask where
they could get enlargements of the Kodak pictures
made. “From me,” Baker would reply. This
meant his own studios for enlargements. Baker
became his own photographer, and built an enlarging
machine. And where could they get frames, glass,
and the like? “From me,” again: a frame depart­
ment was added to the industry, in which Baker
purchased picture frames by the-carload, and sold
them at retail prices.
For three years the school prospered. Baker pre­
pared all of the lessons, drew up all advertising copy,
even for booklets, pamphlets, and circulars, and all
of them were money-getters. Another business
Bakv
er was an ace in, and still is: advertising. After
all, he himself had taken a correspondence course in
it at eighteen. Hundreds of other pupils took the
62 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
same course: Baker alone added genius to what he
was taught. After his year and a half of high school,
he took correspondence courses in engineering, in
advertising, in law: he mastered each, because he
had chosen them and was paying hard-earned cash
for them.
The Calliaphone business revived itself. Orders
kept dribbling in; soon they were pouring in. In
his brother’s factory, first; and then so many orders
came in, that he had to buy his own building, a three
story structure on Chestnut Street, in the home town.
Within a few months this factory was running two
shifts day and night, the machinery in the factory
never stopping for months at a time, even for Sun­
days. Once every twenty-four hours his factory
built, sold and shipped a complete automatic musical
instrument; and three or four times a month, in
addition, a complete automobile outfit, requiring a
special body built on a automobile, was turned out
for national advertising campaigns. The pleasing
tone of the instrument lay between a pipe organ and
a calliope; and as soon as Baker’s next venture, the
radio station, got under way, he called upon his
Calliaphone to introduce to the air-conscious listeners
a new musical tone. He is still building them in his
Muscatine factory, from loud toned ones that can be
heard a mile away to soft-toned instruments for the
home.' It is on the air now, from the station across
the Rio Grande: it blends with any musical instru­
ment from a piano or a violin to an orchestra, and is.
a startlingly agreeable accompaniment for singers.
This business boomed until one year it grossed
almost two hundred thousand dollars. He could not
straddle two horses, the art school and the calliope
T he Calliaphone and P ublic Utilities 63
factory as well: and so he retired from the Tangley
School, by ceasing his advertisements. It was
several years before the last orders ceased coming
in. The total profit in three years were well over
seventy-five thousand dollars: if the other enterprises
had not requisitioned him, he would have no doubt
built up a business that would have grossed a million
dollars a year. And all because he had acted on his
hunch, that day he heard the impoverished tramp
sell the method of painting photographs to the local
Muscatine photographer. He who hesitates is lost:
he who doesn’t hesitate becomes a Norman Baker.
Nor have we yet exhausted all that the amazing
man accomplished, during these hectic years of in­
dividuality building.
C H A P T E B IV
STATION K-TNT
It would be impossible to chronicle all the astonish­
ing and outstanding things that Baker has done, in
his varied and useful life. He is of the genius type,
a man whose mind functions with appallingly brilliant
incisiveness; and, at the same time, as is true of the
genius type, he possesses an intuitive side which any
woman would have to envy. The colleges, in their
mis-education, teach us (and us, until very recently,
meant only the men, since “higher” education was
denied to women) that logic and thinking are the
only sure guides for valuable and outstanding action;
and that intuition is a thing which should be left to
the lower animals, and to women. Baker, lacking
the disadvantage of such a cut-and-dried college
education, sensed rightly, from the start, that intui­
tion was more important than even his brilliant think­
ing ability, and from the start he has let it lead
him, ahead of man’s limping stumbling weapon called
logic.
When, as a journeyman mechanic, he announced
to his few close friends that he had determined to
abandon this business that he knew, and go on the
stage with an entertainment featuring mental sug­
gestion, they turned appalled faces at him: “But
that’s out of your line of experience. You’ll only be
wasting your money.” He knew intuitively that he
could make good in the field: and so he did. When,
in 1914—the year our Western culture rocked from
the shock of the opening of the World War—he in-
64
S tation K -TN T 65
vented the Calliaphone, and on the advice of a'few
progressive young business men of Muscatine aban­
doned his lucrative career on the stage to start a
factory manufacturing musical instruments, his
friends gave the same doleful counsel. He shut his
ears to their logical good advice, and proceeded to
follow his hunch— and the money-making venture is
still flourishing. When, in 1920, his factory burned
down, and he got the sudden inspiration to start the
art correspondence school, the same dismal croaking
was repeated: and again he bucked logic and fol­
lowed his hunch, to net almost a hundred thousand
dollars from the venture. It is no wonder that the
American Medical Association publicly branded
him as a Jack-of-all-trades; to the one-trade mind,
such as that of a medical man, there is something
suspicious about a man who can do everything, and
everything well. No doubt Baker will proudly
accept the charge, if to it is added the summary of
what he did in all these trades: so that the indictment
will then run, Norman Baker, Jack of all trades, and
master of all.
. Always, along with the entertainment angle to his
stage appearances, he would touch upon the matter
of healing by mental suggestion: indeed, it was the
therapeutic value of suggestion, in the case of his
own illnesses, that had first turned his attention to
this. Now we must go back a step, and pick up his
first venture in the field of wholesale healer.
In the tense days of 1920 and 1921, when Baker
was leading the fight against the public utilities of
Muscatine, to maintain the five cent streetcar fare
and ultimately to secure a municipal lighting plant
for the city, events happened constantly which
66 D octoes, D yn am iters and Gunmen
showed the lengths to which the conservative inter­
ests would go, in their efforts to discredit any man
courageous enough to buck their would-be gouges.
Among these conservative interests, as has been
mentioned, was the American Legion.
« An organizer of the World War Veterans arrived
to give an organizing talk in Muscatine. Baker, and
his lawyers, Thompson and Thompson, made every
effort to give this man a chance to talk. They failed,
so bitter was the determination on the part of the
Legion to permit no opposition. Baker challenged
the Legion to debate the matter, in City Hall; the
Legion refused to accept.
Baker had no record of killing, during the World
War; his record lay on the side of healing. In Sep- •
tember, 1916, in Toronto, his observation of shell­
shocked veterans returned from the trenches had
made him recommend mental suggestion as a cure;
since he knew that drugs, serums, and vaccines could.
never cure such a nervous affliction. He tried to in-
-terest the editor of the Toronto World in his proposed
cure: he could not get a hearing. He tried the
Canadian War Department, the Surgeon General
even, expanding on his proposed cure: mental sug­
gestion, spinal massage and diet, proper water, air
and sleep. No answer. He made the same offer to
the war departments of England and France, and the
United States, when we were dragged into the war.
No thanks, even.
And later on, a report was published of the meth­
ods of cure of shell shock victims, presumably issued
by the United States Medical Department. Roughly,
the figures ran:
73% cured by mental suggestion, music and rest.
S tation K-TNT 67
11% cured by diet.
3% cured by medicine.
And this merely meant the cure of the nervous
system, and did not include stammering and stutter­
ing. The mere signing of the armistice, with the end
of the danger from war, caused thousands to recover
at once from this wrecked condition, according to
extant records of the war.
Baker also presented to the United States, to Eng­
land, to France, and to Thomas A. Edison, his design
and specifications for a submarine bombing net, to
be placed across the English Channel, which would
prevent German submarines from entering or leav­
ing the Channel. He received polite thanks, with
the warning that, even if used, the fact could not be
published, for strategic reasons. To this day he does"
not know whether his suggestion was followed, or
not.
There were private enmities that met Baker too,'
some of them instigated by the forces of greed that he
was fighting. One person, a former friend of his, grew
into the idea that Baker had grievously wronged him.
He secured a revolver, and, ascertaining Baker's
movements, he stood waiting for him on the platform
of the Rock Island Railway in Davenport, Iowa, to
shoot him as he alighted from the Chicago train, to
change to the train for Muscatine. His muscles
tightened, as he saw the dapper young man step
down. Unobserved he raised his gun. He saw a
man he respected, another citizen of Muscatine, step
down. The party saw another citizen of Muscatine,
step up to Baker, and watched the play with interest
on the faces of the two men. Baker looked honest,
decent: not the sort of man who could conceivably do
68 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
the wrong he had been accused of. Slowly the pistol
was lowered.
Three years later, this friend, who had found
out that the suspicions were groundless, came up to
Baker and presented him with a thirty-two calibre re­
volver, loaded with the very bullets once intended
to be used to end Baker’s life. “ I was wrong, old
man. Here’s the damned gun: I thought you might
like to keep the thing as a keepsake.” Baker shook
his head, and slipped the gun into his hip pocket.
He still has it. And, from the incident, he is more
careful than ever not to act on circumstantial evi­
dence; better make sure of your facts, before shoot­
ing. If the friend had not belatedly done this, this
book would have ended before this.
And now, with this varied background, for the
first time we find Norman Baker discovering his real
weapon in life, the magnificent publicity that the
radio affords.
Norman Baker had already had his first course in
the best education in American local government:
his alert observant travels from Augusta to ’Frisco,
from Corpus Christi to Saskatchewan. He was now
about ready to graduate from his second and final
course, a first hand knowledge of one typical Ameri­
can town or citylet, Muscatine on the great bend.
American towns, no matter the size, are pretty much
like waffles baked in identical irons by the same
cook. There’s A, the bankers, the capitalists and
industrialists; there’s B, the local press; there’s C,
the conservative Commercial Club; there’s D, the
dumb mass of the people; there’s E, the few intelli­
gent liberal leaders; there’s Z, the politicians.
Queerly enough, the group A has never been known
S tation K-TNT 69
to be unselfish. It constitutes C, meets once a week
or so to munch a meal at the local hotel, sing a few
poor songs poorly, listen to one of its bland resonant
bigwigs give an inspiring talk on some such theme as
giving away a bit more of city property to the rail­
way corporation or some other of its constituent
members: then noisy cheers for the members present,
and “For he’s a jolly good fellow,” and the meeting
is adjourned with no further constructive good for the
community. A, now becomes C, whistles, and B
comes up wagging its tail, and is told “Sic ’im!” Out
pops an editorial modestly praising itself for civic
spirit and boosting and public service, and stridently
demanding that the noble suggestion from A, now
become C, be carried out at once. Another whistle:
Z comes yelping up, and at once the project is con-
sumated. If E has dared to protest, ways are found
to hobble and cripple and at times silence the objec­
tions. All D has to do is to stand another gouge.
American city government . . . .
Baker was in on all of it. He recalls one meeting
of a Civic Club, where they argued for almost an
hour on donating five dollars to have the piano at
the Orphans' Home tuned: and in the end appointed
a committee to investigate. He knew what happened
to E, too: he was a part of this group. If a man in
any sort of business spoke out too independently
against any project the commercial association was
trying to carry through, on his next visit to the bank
he would be told that the president of the bank
would like a word with him. Far oftener than nine
cases out of ten, the business man would already owe
a loan, or would be planning to negotiate one. And
now the bank president is purring: “Bill, much to my
70 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
amazement someone’s told me that you’re not in favor
of so-and-so. I know that, once you give the matter
serious thought, you can't line yourself up against
the best interests of the community that way. I hope
the project will have your one hundred per cent
support. Oh, and by the way, Bill, that little loan
of yours—fifteen hundred, isn’t it?— comes due next
month. I suppose you’re arranging to take care of
it.” Usually this works. Bill isn’t too blind to see
that, if he doesn’t do as the banker suavely suggests,
his loan will be called, or he won’t get the loan he
needs. He knows which side his loans are buttered
on.
Norman Baker learned this from every side of
him. At least he can proudly boast that never yet
has he danced to any banker’s tune; he prefers to play
his own fiddle. Not that all bankers are so narrow­
minded and petty. Baker still points with pride to
one Muscatine banker, Jim Giesler. Politically
Baker had fought him for years, in spite of the fact
that Baker owed him an overdue note for fourteen
hundred dollars. At a mass meeting Baker roundly
denounced Giesler’s stand on some important matter.
The banker did not say a word, he did not call the
overdue loan. When Baker, to test his liberal-mind­
edness, took a friend down who wanted to borrow
eight hundred dollars, courteously Giesler told the
man to bring over his deed, and if the title was satis­
factory, he could have the money at once. But one
good apple won’t sanctify a wormy barrelful.
The inactivity of the local Commercial Club, as far
as matters really beneficial to the community as a
whole was concerned, caused the few liberal leaders
S tation K-TNT 71
to desire a mouthpiece of-, their own. First they
started the Chamber of Commerce, already men­
tioned, and began to lift the lid slightly off matters
municipal in Muscatine. The stench that arose was
not too pleasant. As 1923 rolled into 1924, certain
of the wealthier men of the town were inspiring press
publicity and broadcasting at their weekly civic club
meetings that Muscatine ought to have its own radio
station. For two years they bleated about this, and
nothing was done but the bleating. One day, at
lunch with three or four of his own friends, some
one called Baker’s attention to the fact that the radio
boosters had decided to compromise by giving each-
Monday evening’s program from station WOC in
nearby Davenport, and call it “Muscatine Night.”
Baker suddenly had his hunch. He arose in stiff
self-control: “Fellows, I’ll build a radio station
for Muscatine, and build a good one too. If you all
will wait here for me a few moments . . . .” He
walked out, and across the street to the jGerman-
American Savings Bank, over which J. L. Giesler
presided. “Jim,” said Baker slowly, “you’ve heard
this two years’ talk about a radio station here: you’ve
seen the crawl, by which the scheme has been de­
flated to a night a week from the Davenport station.
I’m willing to build a radio station here that will be
a monument to the radio industry: I’ll build it with­
out a cent ,of public subscription, without forming a
corporation or selling stock. All I ask in return, in
consideration for popularizing Muscatine throughout
the world, is for the Municipal Light Company to give
me free electricity, water, and taxes.”
“What’s in it, for the town?” Baker expanded:
daily talks exploiting Muscatine, its many advantages,
72 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
its low electric rate, in an endeavor to secure new
industries for the stagnant town. “It’ll lift Musca­
tine from being a little burg lost in the Mississippi
corn fields, to a city the whole world knows about.”
The banker nodded: “I’m with you. We’ll give you
free light, power, water, and taxes.” Baker knew
that the man meant what he said, and had the power
to carry it all out. He was an outstanding trustee on
the light board, and could make them do what he
wanted; nor did he lack influence on the city council,
who would have to grant the exemption from taxes.
Next day’s paper carried the astonishing news;
it became the moment’s insistent topic of conversa­
tion. Muscatine split into two camps. The business
men and the majority of the people decided at once
it would be a great thing for the community; on the
other side, the bankers and capitalists shook their
heads, and guffawed at the idea that Norman Baker
could build a radio station. The pro-Baker party
called the conservatives the soreheads: in retaliation,
they said that Baker would build a station that looked
like a red barn, and “the Lord have mercy on us,
while we have to listen to the type of programs he
sends out!”
Herbert Hoover was then Secretary of Commerce,
and in charge of radio affairs in the United States.
Baker applied to this department for permission to
build a radio station at Muscatine, of five hundred
watts power on a channel of 333.3 meters. What
was to be the call letters of his station? In those
days, there were two classes of government licenses:
Class A, small-powered stations, whose call letters
commenced with K; Class B, the stations with power
from a thousand watts up to five thousand, with the
S tation K-TNT 73
first letter W. What combination of letters should
Baker choose, in order to make the station inter­
nationally known? Suddenly the letters TNT,
standing for trinitrotuolene, one of the world’s great­
est explosives, flashed across his mind. Everyone
knew what TNT meant. He knew that his station
would do more than boost Muscatine to the world;
already he sensed that it would give constructive talks
for the masses, the hordes of farmers and laborers and
small business men, as well as humanity in general,
and that, knowing his own nature, he knew that a lot
of these talks would be extremely ¡explosive. He
considered the matter settled, and filled in the ap­
plication with the significant letters K-TNT.
. The world took notice of the brilliant label, from
the start. Whenever an especially important talk
would go out over the air from his station, people
would query of friends and neighbors, “Did you hear
that TNT talk from Muscatine?” “It was TNT, all
right,” with a chuckle. Once again his hunch had
been invaluable.
The Department of Commerce granted the permit.
Baker turned to drawing the plans for his building.
A red barn? Not unless the Capitol at Washington
was a Gothic backhouse. Baker and his small group
of friends still met regularly in a cafe in the evening,
and all contributed to the factualization of the misty
aircastle. The white tablecloth, menu cards, any­
thing would do to draw on: Spanish castles, Egyptian
tombs, Americanized homes, all were considered.
The worried waiter, as soon as the group entered,
would bring, not water, but sheets of paper, to save
the tablecloth from spoliation.
74 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
One night, when Baker sat. alone waiting for the
others, his hunch came again: why not combine all
of these schools of architecture into one resplendent
building that would be different from anything in
the world? A bit of American, a dash of Moorish,
a gob of Spanish, an ort of Egyptian, and so with all
the rest. It took a genius to make a thing of beauty
out of this edificial mish-mash: and Baker was a
genius.
And where should this melange of architecture be
placed? Obviously on the highest hill in the city.
Muscatine is located in a natural amphitheatre, with
a high horseshoe hill starting on the east and arcing
around to the edge of the Father of Waters, a mile
wide at this point. Baker did not hesitate, or bicker
over the price: he purchased what is still known as
K-TNT hill, a hundred and sixty-five feet above the
river’s face. The soreheads had spread reports that
talk of Baker’s station was all hamburger, that it
would never be built. And then the deed was re­
corded for the purchase of the site. The croaking
tune altered to, “Wait till you see the red barn Baker
sticks up there!’’
Of course, the local bigwigs were numerically far
in the minority; and they must have feared that, if
Baker came into control of a powerful organ of
public information like such a radio station, this
would severely cramp their idealistic efforts to give
away city property to private interests, and perpet­
uate their capitalistic gouges. There were always
servile politicians eager to put over such deals, in
return for a direct handout or the more urbane reward
of political advancement. Baker, it was true, had
never .yet showed an itch for office; but he might
S tation K-TNT 75
throw his power behind any of a number of potential
liberal candidates with, progressive ideas, and this
would puncture their plans irremediably. Soon
enough all this happened: K-TNT had its large
share in electing local officials, placing Ralph Thomp­
son in the State Senate, and returning Smith Brook-
hart to the United States Senate after he was denied
his seat. Baker was known as a firm believer in
municipally owned public utilities: an idea like this
made the banker class shiver in their patent
leathers. Suppose he actually spoke of the ad­
vantages of municipal ownership and control, and
other cities caught the contagion!
We have not begun to exhaust the ramifications of
the opposition yet. Boy, page the American Tele­
graph and Telephone Company. What was their
attitude on the matter? Did they have any fears
that Baker might incautiously leak complaints against
the excessive rates of telegraph and telephone com­
panies’? It was common talk that their minds were
concentrated on complete control of Radio, that they
had their biggest finger in the press of America and
all of the radio stations except possibly a dozen,
which they joined in calling outlaw or radical stations.
No doubt you found them from the start opposing
each step toward the realization of Baker's dream
for K-TNT.
The fall of 1924— Coolidge was running for Presi­
dent against the corporation lawyer picked as the
Democratic candidate, and the lethargic country was
blandly ignoring the stench from the Teapot Dome
revelations—Baker commenced excavations for the
foundation. Icy weather set in; building had to be
76 Doctors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
postponed until the spring. The opposition had no
intention of postponing its activities.
Baker’s Calliaphone factory was in operation; and
here he planned to build his own K-TNT transmitter.
Those on the inside of radio affairs in America know
that the American Telegraph and Telephone Com­
pany own the Western Union Telegraph Company as
well as the Postal Telegraph Company; the majority
of citizens, even today, believe that these three enter­
prises are separately owned. They are separately
incorporated, of course, but a holding company unites
them. This vast interest, with keen foresight, had
purchased or pooled over four thousand patents in
both radio transmitting and receiving. They owned
or controlled practically every important radio inven­
tion; to this day it is impossible to build a radio trans­
mitting station without infringing upon some of their
patents. The influence of the company spread, by
foreign patents, to other lands as well; they brought
into their organization subsidiaries of foreign electri­
cal companies, many of which they dominate.
The Western Electric Company built and sold
radio transmitters, microphones, transmitting tubes,
and varied other devices, all necessary to complete
a radio transmitting station. Their prices were not
low. Many who desired a broadcasting station were
unable to pay the price demanded; very few were
able to give sufficient security for the purchase of the
essential machinery on the instalment payment plan.
This drove many to set to it and build their own
transmitters, known in the radio field as Composite
Stations. At least, Baker was a more than efficient
mechanic. He set to work to build his own trans-
S tation K-TNT 77
mitter in the factory where his air-pressure calliopes
were being manufactured.
Now a real obstacle. In 1924 the American Tele­
graph and Telephone Company was selling patent
licenses. A builder of a station required two licenses,
—one from the government to build and operate the
station, and a license from the A. T. & T. corpora­
tion to use their patented devices, to buy these from
them, and to use their wiring hook-up for the trans­
mitters. They announced that they would sell such
licenses to anyone who wished to buy them at the
rate of four dollars per watt. For a hundred watt
station, the cost would be four hundred dollars. Baker
sought a five hundred watt station. This meant a
drain of two thousand dollars for this license from
him. Baker knew that he had to purchase
microphones, transmitting tubes, and the like, and
to use the corporation’s wiring circuit and control
devices such as tube sockets— all protected by
patents. In Baker’s mind, this constituted a prima
facie case that the corporation constituted a radio
trnst or monopoly. Nevertheless, he sent them an
oiler of two thousand dollars for the license, which
entitled one, not only to use their patents but to pur­
chase restricted apparatus.
He did not receive even the courtesy of a reply.
H e b e g a n to re a liz e th a t h e h a d a fight in fro n t of
him .
K-TNT,
Muscatine,
Iowa,
America’s
most
beautiful
and
popular
radio
station,
confiscated
by
Federal
Radio
Commission
on
June
12,
1931,
through
influences
of
American
Medical
Association,
Public
Utilities
and
the
Press.
CHAPTER V
IS THERE A RADIO TRUST?
Normai^Baker began to probe into the queer past
of radio, that young giant among human industries.
In 1837 Samuel Morse, an artist with no education
in electrical matters, invented the telegraph. In 1876
a teacher of the deaf, similarly ignorant of electri­
city, named Alexander Graham Bell, invented the
telephone. Twenty years later, an Italian, Guglielmo
Marconi discovered wireless telegraphy, — which
constituted an actual threat to the monopoly in
speedy distance communication held, by the tele-'
graph, cable and telephone interests. Heinrich
Hartz, whose wireless waves Marconi used, died a
poor man, like so many discoverers. Marconi or­
ganized his own corporation, employing another
European invention, the coherer; and ultimately
sold out to British interests for some cash and stock
which netted him millions.
Researches conducted by the American navy per­
fected wireless or radio apparatus; whereupon
American capital entered the radio business in an
effective way. "Wireless telegraphy became reliable,
due to the alternator generator invented by E. Alex-
anderson of the General Electric Company—an in­
vention perhaps preceded by one made by Reginald
Tessenden of Pittsburgh some time before. Thomas
A. Edison’s Edison Effect led to Fleming’s 1905
Fleming Yalve Patent, a vacuum tube with hot and
cold electrodes; and Marconi bought this. The Radio
79
80 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
Corporation of America came into being, with the
alternator patent of Alexanderson’s. The crystal
detector replaced the Fleming two-electrode tube-
invented by G. W. Pickard, who sold the patent to
the United Fruit Company, with steamships to var­
ious countries.
In 1889, Dr. Lee de Forest discovered the three-
electrode vacuum tube; this made wireless tele­
phony, telegraphy, and radio broadcast really pos­
sible.' In 1907 this was patented; in 1909, the first
radio broadcast program, featuring Caruso, was pre­
sented by de Forest from New York City. It was
ten years later before the electrical trust began to
broadcast. Marconi and de Forest became dead­
locked in the courts. The Radio Corporation of
America emerged out of the agreement between the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, .the
General Electric Company, the Westinghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company, the Wireless
Specialty Company, the United Fruit Company, the
Radio Corporation of America, the Western Electric
Company: and something resembling a factual mo­
nopoly resulted. Langmuir, of the General Electric
Company, improved the vacuum tube in 1913. This
year E. Armstrong invented the feed-back circuit,
and sold it for $400,000.
The war came; the United States government took
over all the patents. Owen D. Young, then president
of the General Electric Company, organized the
Radio Corporation of America, and bought control
of the important patents, putting Europe practically
out of the running. The radio trust required all
manufacturers of radio receiving sets to pay a
license fee on every set they manufactured. After
Is T h ere a R adio Trust ? 81
1919, it practically monopolized tlie fields. In 1920
Conrad, of Westing-Rouse, started to broadcast pho­
nograph records, which was the birth of Station
K-DKA of Pittsburgh.
And now, the interlocked few turned on the in­
dependent stations, as “ tin can stations” ; as players
of canned music; as “ direct sales” stations. They
altered the wave lengths of the independent stations
to give them locations difficult to be received; cut
their power took' away their evening hours, and
made them day stations—all through a radio com­
mission strangely subservient to the large radio
group, with its impressive Wall Street backing.
Norman Baker bucked this group, from the start.
He was the first man who advocated publicly that
all chain stations should go on one wave length when
broadcasting the same program simultaneously. He
claims to have been the first man to have called the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company a
giant octopus, seeking to control the air. These re­
marks are on record; Baker made them at the Fourth
National Radio Conference in Washington, in 1925,
which were quoted in the press. There he proph-
esized an end to freedom of the air.
The first broadcasting transmitters offered by the
Western Electric Company were said to be nothing
but their code transmitters worked over into broad­
cast transmitters, and they were not very efficient.
Baker learned that WOC at Davenport had trouble
with its transmitter, and determined to build his own.
He learned more details ofithe radio monopoly from
official records, also from a pamphlet by Senator
Dill, of Washingon, dated May 11, 1928, and entitled
The Radio Trust Exposed. Interested readers can
82 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
secure a copy from the United States Government
Printing office.
Baker had already been fighting the group for
four years, commencing when they were in the early
stages of monopolization. The American Telephone
and Telegraph Company ignored his request for a
license. They urged him not to build his station.
They urged he purchase time each day from WOC
at Davenport, or go there and give his own Norman
. Baker Program each day. But WOC was owned and
operated by a chiropractor named B. J. Palmer, and
Baker adjudged that this man lacked the ‘‘intestinal
fortitude” to attack organized medicine. So he de­
termined to go ahead and build his own station.
After throwing countless obstacles in his way, they
refused to sell him a license. In 1925, Baker at­
tended the Fourth National Radio Conference, in the
city of Washington. K-TNT was actually being
erected. Baker noted that a Mr. Harkness was con­
sulted on every question before the gathering; and
discovered that Harkness represented the A. T. & T.
Baker rose and charged that the, A. T. & T. was “ a
giant octopus seeking the entire control of the air,”
and urged that all stations go on one wave length,
while broadcasting their programs simultaneously.
The 98% of small stations supported Baker; the 2%
chain stations sided with Harkness. Baker was ap­
pointed to the Committee on Power and Metropoli­
tan City Interference. He urged more power for
Class A stations, or those which had at least 500
watts of power. He was attacked for his presump­
tion, in seeking to establish a station in “ the wilds
of Iowa.” Baker, in his own defense, promised to
have a station that would be the most popular in the
United States.
Is T here a Radio T rust V 83
Harkness hinted to Baker that the matter of the
license could be arranged. Baker retorted that he
would not cross the street to get it. The monopoly
spread the idea that it was not feasible to have the
chain stations broadcast on the same wave length,
when presenting the same program simultaneously.
Baker’s attorneys discovered, after Baker sought to
patent a device which would insure this, that the
trust already owned three prior patents, pertaining
to the same matter! Baker’s application for a patent
was protested, as interfering with a patent applied
for, filed two months after his own application—a
patent finally assigned to the Federal Telephone
Manufacturing Company of Buffalo. Baker had es­
tablished that his plan was feasible; he dropped his
patent application.
On Thanksgiving day, 1925, K-TNT officially •
opened, with its first program. With all his suavity
Baker, from the start, used it to inform America of
conditions in the radio industry. Let his own broad­
cast speech illustrate the type of his attack:
“K-TNT was the first station to start the fight for
freedom of the air, to place chain stations on one
channel when broadcasting simultaneously. It was
dedicated to.farmers, laborers, and the common folks,
and was known as the common folks’ station. No
bars, no doors that kept you from any room in the
station, except from dangers of high voltage in the
transmitter room. The public would come and sit, in
the broadcasting room where the artists would per­
form, instead of standing out and looking through
glass doors and bars as though they were peeking at
convicts in a cell. The homey atmosphere, the
truths and facts I have uttered, the facts that no one
84 Doctors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
has ever forced me to retract one statement, the
prominent important subjects I talked on, soon made
K-TNT the most popular station in America, yes, I
may say, in the whole world. This may sound boast­
ful ; but the K-TNT booklet shows pictures of crowds
averaging five thousand every summer Sunday, and
as high as fifty thousand people visiting K-TNT in
one day, which constitutes more visitors than could
be found in all the chain stations in the country on
any one Sunday. It would be difficult to find a
hundred visitors on the average on a Sunday at the
average chain station, simply because the millions of
American radio listeners are tired of their monopoly,
and angered because the freedom of the air has been
taken from them, through the action of the Federal
Radio Commission in granting to these stations the
best channels and the highest power.
“ All the members of the Radio Commission have
been servants of the radio trust of America, making
many decisions against the best interest of the public,
to such an extent that every session of Congress has
threatened an investigation of the Federal Radio
Commission.
“Feeling that I had been discriminated against by
the A. T. & T., I determined to test the case. I
communicated with Senator Smith Brookhart, from
Iowa; I told him the story, and he and I placed the
A. T. & T. before the Department of Justice and the
Federal Trade Commission for an investigation,
charging them with violation of the Sherman Anti-
Trust Laws, with discrimination, and with monopoly.
Mr. Brann, attorney from the Department of Justice
from New York district, came to Muscatine, and
spent some time with me gathering evidence. Inci-
Is T h ere a R adio T rust ? 85
»
dentally, it was station K-TNT that returned Senator
Brookhart to the senate, when the Iowa gang tried to
knife him.
The outcome of the investigation into the elec­
trical trust of America, containing the seven com­
panies known as the £Big Five,’ was that the com­
bination was broken up in 1927. But I have always
said that it was broken up in name only, as they still
carry on strange transations.
“About the time that the federal trade investiga­
tion was ended, I received a confidential letter from
a member of a government department. Clipped
to the top of his letter was the cryptic message, ‘In
a few days you will hear important news.’ Within
a week two representatives of the A. T. & T. walked
into my private office at Muscatine,, and laid upon
my desk three copies of the A. T.. & T. license to
K-TNT. This bore out what I had told the A. T. &
T. man in Washington months previous.
And my efforts will continue, until the freedom of
the air has been secured, and the radio octopus
crushed forever!
Needless to say, such talks began to wake up the
country. It was just after the fourth radio con­
ference, already described, that Representative
White, of Maine, supposedly elected as a labor
delegate, introduced in the House of Representatives
the White Radio Bill, which was a masterpiece of
legislation for the benefit of the radio combine; and
was entirely against the interests of the very people
who had elected him, the laboring classes. At the
same time, Senator Dill introduced the Dill Radio
Bill in the Senate. Baker testified before the Senate
committee on radio matters just about this time, and
just after the hearing on the White bill before the
86 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
House committee. In this instance, Baker had his
attorney represent him1. The attorney returned and
told how he had orated for hours, berating the
iniquitous measure until Baker need have no fear that
it would pass. Within a few weeks, Baker secured
a copy of the man’s actual remarks before the com­
mittee: they were brief and comparatively mild. It
taught Baker not to trust important matters to others,
but to attend to them himself.
After all, Baker decided that the Dill radio bill
was merely the Senate sister of the White bill he
objected to so; and so he went to Washington to
attend the Senate hearings on it. Senator Watson
of Indiana was chairman at the hearing, and the
Senators were in part friends of the combine, and in
part clear-visioned critics of all attempts at monopoly.
During the morning session, Baker himself talked for
two hours on the original Dill bill, breaking it down
paragraph by paragraph. When he ended, Senator
Watson said smilingly, “Well, it doesn’t look as
if we have much of a radio bill left.”
When the meeting adjourned, Senator Dill took
Baker aside and told him that he had no selfish
motives whatever in introducing the bill, and would
welcome suggestions to protect the American public
from any who sought to control or monopolize the
air. Baker was ready for the Senator; he already
had printed copies of the bill, with his own recom­
mendations in bold-faced type opposite the offending
sections. The Senator read them over carefully;
Baker is proud to point out that seven of his ten
recommendations are now part of the Dill Radio Law.
The other three were not used because, had they
1—William Randall, Muscatine, Iowa,
Is T h ebe a R adio Trust ? 87
been inserted, the A. T. & T. forces would have pre­
vented the passage of his bill entirely. The three'
omitted paragraphs, relating to the regulation of
chain stations, Would have prevented all the subse­
quent radio troubles the country has suffered from
since, Baker still insists.
Today, in America, Baker is fond of saying, the
people are the victims of a complete monopoly by the
chain broadcasting companies, organized by and with
the capital of the electrical and radio trust, and
dominating because they have been allotted the best
channels with the highest power; and because they
were clever enough to take in those stations, as chain
members, that were properly located geographically,
until today they constitute a spider-web or network
over the entire United States and Canada, and even
Mexico. And Baker is proud of the fact that, while
he spoke in the Senate investigations, Representative
White was present in person to hear the just diatribe
launched against him. Nor did he say one word in de­
fense of the accusations Baker leveled against him.
Meanwhile, the popularity of K-TNT continued to
grow. Sunday and holiday crowds became increas­
ingly greater. This was one aspect Baker had not
anticipated: but the people’s love of a courageous
fighter for truth is never tardy in expression. Yet
in the end such a champion of fair play was sure to
be ridiculed, humiliated, and cast down, by loud
press taunts of “radical” hurled at him. Not that
in any boastful spirit Baker held himself out as a
popular leader: he merely showed that, to fight his
own battle for survival, he had to throw the spot­
light of publicity upon the trusts, thé monopolies, and
upon government officials who proved to be puppets
88 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
of the exploiting groups. And always the lovely
tone of the Calliaphone was a background for the
human voice, for piano duets, vocal selections, violin,
choral numbers, orchestras, and bands. Senator
•
Dickerson used its microphone to address the people,
and so did Senator Brookhart and several others of
the august highest legislative body in the land. In
controversies, K-TNT stood out as the only station in
the land that covered both sides of every contro­
versy. Especially did it devote time to agriculture,
actually reporting agricultural battles, instead of
merely mentioning them. One of the most famous
speeches delivered from the station was that on Aug­
ust 24, 1926, by Colonel M. O. Ruiz Sandoval, consul
of Mexico, on the listed subject The Religious Contro­
versy of Mexico. The speech turned out to be a
brilliant vindication of President Calles from all
taunts of anti-Catholicism and Bolshevism, by estab­
lishing that all that he had done was merely follow­
ing the 1917 Constitution of the country. He pointed
out that Baker’s broadcasting station, in view of the
blanket of silence in the American press regarding
Calles’ side of the controversy, was the only avail­
able means of carrying Mexico’s message to the
people of the United States.
The fundamental law of Mexico now provided, he
pointed out, merely for complete separation of
church and state; for native priests and ministers in
all faiths; for non-sectarian elementary education,
in charge of non-clerical teachers; and for the elimi­
nation of convents and secret religious organizations.
He pointed out further that the contest was not at
all over religious liberty, but over the vast church
properties and over education: and in a moving con-
Is T h ere a R adio T rust ? 89
elusion he foresaw a re-arisen Mexico, with such
religious liberty as the sister republic to the north
enjoys.
It was by activities such as these that the great
worth of K-TNT to the public was established.
When the first huge Sunday crowd visited the
station, there had been only one rest room provided.
Every toilet facility in the nearby residences had to
be requisitioned; and at once Baker ordered more
rest rooms constructed. The crowds surged into
every room in the lovely station, and finally stood on
the upholstered furniture, causing natural breakage;
and so a lawn studio had to be built, with seating
arrangements to accommodate such unprecedented
crowds. The rooms in the studio, while large, could
never accommodate more than three hundred people.
Baker called on his ingenuity, and constructed a
three-walled studio on the lawn, with one side open
like an open-air bandstand, using benches and folding
chairs for the audience. Then there were complaints
about the hot sun: so Baker erected a tent thirty
feet by sixty over the seats and benches. A sudden
storm demolished the tent; a firmer tent was devised
and erected. The crowds grew, until they reached
the unprecedented size of fifty thousand people on
one Sunday in May, 1930. Automobilists arriving in
the early afternoon would find all the streets, alleys,
and vacant lots nearby sardined with parked cars, and
at times they could find no parking place closer than
half a mile from the studio. .
There was the danger of accident in handling such
large crowds, especially since many of them brought
the children along. Baker took out a fifty thousand
dollar liability policy, to protect the crowd in case of
Usual
Sunday
crowd
at
K-TNT.
An
average
of
5,000
visitors
gathered
at
the
station
every
'Sunday
during
summer.
Picture
shows
lawn
studio
and
tent
on
lawn
to
accommodate
the
crowds.
A.
M.
A.
doctors
spread
report
that
Mr.
B
aker
killed
Mr.
Johnson
by
permitting
skull
removal.
This
50,000
crowd
assembled
a
few
weeks
later
a
t
KTNT
to
see
and
hear
Mr.
Johnson.
Is T h ere a R adio T rust ? 93
accidents. More than a million visitors were handled
at the station during its existence, and only three
minor accidents took place. And God was certainly
with the station, the religious would remark: no
accidents, and for one whole summer not a cloudy
Sunday, much less a rain.
To provide cheap gasoline for his countless vis­
itors, Baker constructed K-TNT Oil Station, with six
pumps and three driveways. He lowered the price of
gasoline and oil, and saved the public hundreds of
thousands of dollars. When the oil refineries grew
unaccountably slack in their deliveries, Baker in­
stalled storage tanks, and purchased thereafter only
from the independents. Refreshments were sold to
the huge crowds, at unprecedentedly low prices. To
answer complaints of gouging restaurant prices,
Baker purchased the leading restaurant in the town,
and brought the price of chicken dinners down to
fifty cents. To stop the pilfering of the restaurant’s
K-TNT silverware, souvenir programs were printed.
A coffee stand, serving also sandwiches, was erected
on the station grounds. When a girl tried to black­
mail him through a local lawyer named J. Kammer-
er, Baker went to the radio and blistered the lawyer
over the air for the attempted blackmail. He fought
brilliantly back against other local enemies, a lawyer
named Howard Bartlett, a certain Reverend Haef-
ner. He answered the problem of tire blowouts by
manufacturing and selling the Tangley Pure Gum
Rubber tire, at a price lower than mail order prices
for shoddy tires. He got out a mail order catalog,
selling everything from lady’s dainty handkerchiefs
to pairs of shoes: and on the average he saved the
purchasers 10% on everything they bought from him.
94 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
The press began to attack him, as a “ Direct Ad­
vertising” station, which mentioned the price of the
articles advertised. He retorted savagely, in spite
of being busied with more enterprises than any man
in Iowal Muscatine enjoyed a boom, through the
countless visitors that the Baker enterprises brought
in. Every merchant in Muscatine profited from this.
Yet shortsightedly they joined the opposition to
Baker. Meanwhile Baker ploughed steadily ahead,
living up to the high-visioned motto, The customer is
always right, even though he is wrong. A few times
he was crooked, as when a farmer painted his barns
with paint unfairly acquired from Baker. But Baker
held that 98% of the people were honest, and he
could afford to forgive the remaining 2%.
Baker’s attitude toward his customers came from
three incidents— one concerning a suit from a tailor
that did not fit Baker, the second, concerning a pair
of button shoes whose buttons tore out at first wear­
ing; and an earlier incident, in which Baker was at
fault in ruining a new pair of patent leather shoes.
He never dealt with the tailor or the first shoe store
again. But the second shoe store sent him a new pair
of patent leathers; which made Baker ashamed, but
convinced that the policy: The customer is always
right, meant satisfied customers forever. He has
never ceased to patronize this store.
A fight commenced between the Muscatine Journal
and K-TNT over advertisements. The Journal, not
always overhanded in its tactics sniped continually
at Baker’s activities. A radio wedding was broad­
cast frcim the K-TNT studio; it was probably the first
ever held in the history of man. The bridegroom was
an Illinois farmer; the bride was from a nearby Iowa
Is T h ere a R adio T rust ï 95
city. In their fight against Baker, the Journal ex­
humed certain discreditable things in the bride­
groom’s past, and published them; worse than this,
they published an alleged expose of a pre-marital
love affair the bride had had. At the time of the
marriage, the young couple seemed destined to hap­
piness; later Baker learned that, after the hateful
publicity, family trouble occurred. Baker has always
blamed this on the fact that the bitter Journal held
them up to public scorn in its headlines, as part of
their campaign against the owner of K-TNT.
It all made Baker bitter. For he had learned that
certain members of the Journal staff were having
their own affairs far from the family fireside, and
were starring in drunkenness and resultant auto­
mobile accidents— and, needless to say, these matters
did not reach the Journal headlines. Later on, one
such incident, involving someone high in the Journal,
did reach the public ears, and caused a lot of em­
barrassment. And the opposition extended to many
or most of the prominent midwestern papers, who
found the power of the station increasing so in their
own communities, that their own political pets were
being shorn of their power, and real champions of
the people were ousting them. It would take a
thousand volumes to tell the whole story.' We must
avoid the fascinating minor incidents, and plunge on
to the main attacks.
They came with startling suddenness.
The Federal Radio Commission discriminated against Independent Stations by assigning best channels
____________ ________t:— ____i -J-—
C H A P T E R V I
ATTACKS ON K-TNT BEGIN
So far, eliminating such minor opposition as comes
to every successful man from individuals whose main
livelihood comes from preying on the wealthy, five
large groups were aligned against Baker: and all
with good reason, to them. The bankers, through
their innate miserly jealousy of any independent
young man succeeding in business: and added to this
their fear that he would expose their civic malfeas­
ances and end their furtive profitable rackets, a fear
that allied with them their lickspittle followers, the
local political gang. The public utilities, privately
owned, because of his advocacy of public ownership.
The radio trust, since he was a vigorous rival to their
business and allied with them their servile adherents,
the Federal Radio Commission. The merchants,
through short-sighted objection to Baker's own
merchandising. The newspapers, both because
Baker was a rival in advertising, and because, as a
rival voice that reached the public ear, he jeopardized
their monopoly on swaying public opinion. •
A sixth
powerful opponent still lay in the future: we will
come to it soon enough. Of all these, it was the
newspapers that struck first.
The planning, as Baker saw it, was to break him
financially, if possible. How was this to be achieved?
One helpful way was to have Baker summoned to
Washington for hearings before the-radio commission,
with the concomitant lawyers’ fees, expensive trans­
portation from Muscatine to Washington, nearly 1000
97
98 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
miles, and the like. The first shot was fired by an
article in the Muscatine Journal by their Washing­
ton correspondent, a Martin Codel, who was regarded
by many as being a partisan on the side of the
capitalists; and who had clearly aligned himself with
the radio trust stations and against the independents.
Other Iowa and midwest papers had similar articles.
Codel’s article alleged that protests had been received
by the commission from the American Red Cross, the
Iowa State Department of Agriculture, and several
national farm associations; and that these would be
introduced at the hearing against Baker. The proper
notification was served upon Baker, and he journeyed
to Washington with his attorneys and witnesses and
all data, for the hearing.
The newspapers of the country had played up the
case in a sensational way. For weeks before the
hearing, the midwest papers sought to discredit
Baker in the public mind: a sort of prejudging and
pre-deciding the case, without giving Baker any
hearing at all. The hearing began. Baker, having
one matter he wished to expose, was delighted that
the fight was on. A Washington newspaper corres­
pondent, who sent out “colored” or editorialized
dispatches from time to time to his midwest news­
papers, including the Sioux City Iowa Journal, which
operated radio station K-SCJ, took the stand first.
He, the only witness, spoke for about five minutes, to
the bewilderment of his hearers, who were not quite
sure what he was driving at. Finally the chairman
of the commission, Judge Sykes, interrupted him, and
asked just what he was trying to get at. This was a
hearing on a radio station, the chairman said, and
they were not at all concerned as to who the Iowa
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 99
Journal was, or what states their subscriptions
covered. After more indecisive talk, the chairman
told the witness that, if this was all he had to say,
the commission would summarily dismiss the case.
The witness was dumbfounded; he was as full of
stage fright as Baker had been, on the occasion of
his first stage appearance in Coal Valley. He could
be master of the universe, when he pounded his type­
writer at a tiny table in a dark back room; but here
he was facing a judicial body that required him to
adhere to the facts, and he was neither prepared for
the test nor equal to it. He spoke nervously ahead
for the few minutes. The chairman stopped him,
and dismissed the case. Baker was not pleased at
the sudden termination; he had had his own expose
he wished to make, and this summary dismissal
spoiled the chance of that. He was out twenty five
hundred dollars for attorney fees, transportation and
other expenses. He still is sure that the whole thing
was a frame-up concocted by the Iowa newspapers
and the public utility interests, to milk Baker out of
these expenses.
Baker determined to go to the root of the matter
—the Martin Codel press story, for instance. Pro­
tests from the American Red Cross? He had always
aided their cause, he had boasted that his station had
devoted more time to charity, with no payment for it,
than any station in the United States. Not only did
K-TNT broadcast such propaganda as they sent in,
such as appeals for the million dollar drive for the
Mississippi flood sufferers in April, 1927, but when
the Iowa coal miners were starving and freezing,
K-TNT consistently called day and night for food and
clothing for them; and no other Iowa or midwest
100 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
station did this. And effectively, too; Baker’s ap­
peals evoked a carload of supplies for the impover­
ished miners— and all at a time when the Iowa press
hushed up the whole matter, so that outsiders never
knew what was happening.
On November 9, 1927, Baker wrote to the national
American Red Cross at Washington, citing, Martin
Codel’s press article, and asking specifically if the
Red Cross had fathered any such complaints. He
cited his aid to the Red Cross, and demanded a copy
of any complaints the Red Cross had made against
his station. Three days later, the Director of Public
Information of the national body, from Washington,
Douglas Griesemer, wrote Baker that the American
National Red Cross had never made any complaint
against the station, and that the files of the Federal
Radio Commission showed no petition or complaint
against K-TNT by the American Red Cross. Baker
also wrote to the radio commission; Sam Pickard,
one of the commissioners, replied on November 12th
that no such complaint had ever been filed and re­
ferred Baker to Codel for the sources of his “informa­
tion.” Baker wrote the Red Cross, asking them to
demand a retraction from Codel; and he also wrote
Codel directly, demanding a retraction.
The National Red Cross body wrote Baker, under
date of December 20, 1927:
It seems to me it should be sufficient for your
purpose to have the official statement from us,
in your files, to the effect that the American
National Red Cross did not at any time, either
directly or indirectly, make any charges what­
soever against Station K-TNT, either before the
Federal Radio Commission, to any newspaper
A ttacks on K -TN T B egin 101
man, or to anyone else. You may accept this
letter as such statement.
Baker’s records show no letter received from Codel.
The bitterness of his campaign, and its dishonesty, is
evidenced by these statements from Codel’s signed
article in the Muscatine Journal under date of No­
vember 1, 1927:
The chief charge against him (Baker) is that
he has been freely attacking Muscatine organi­
zations and officials, and protests have been
filed already with the commission by the Red.
Cross to the effect that he has been unduly
criticizing and hampering the activities of that
organization. Baker, on the other hand, has
stated that he represents the large share of the
farmers of Iowa and is backed by them. He
denied attacking the Red Cross.
The article went on to list protests that K-TNT was
interfering with three New York stations operating
on the same wave, and following repeated warnings
that it was deviating from its assigned channel. We
will come to these matters later. The subtlety of
Codel’s unfair attack appears from the fact that the
Red Cross is a charity organization commanding
general respect, and the dishonest statement that it
had protested against K-TNT, in spite of the alleged
denial of Baker, was sure to aid in turning popular
sentiment against Baker, on the part of those who
did not know of his splendid civic record on every
matter.
In 1926, of course, radio receiving sets were
practically in their infancy. Paul Crosley’s screech­
ing “tom-cats” sets still flooded the country, and
other receiving sets were far inferior to the present
102 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
day selective sets. Yet troubles caused by these
receiving sets were then blamed on the radio stations
and their allocations. K-TNT’s wave length had
about twenty stations jammed on it. To relieve that
interference, Baker had his wave length changed,
selecting one with fewer stations, and cut down the
interference on K-TNT’s old channel perhaps twenty-
five per cent. He also built a larger transmitter;
his station had five hundred watts, and he went on
the air with ten thousand. It was at this time that
Bellows became a radio commissioner, and, later,
resigned; it is more than hinted that the full reasons
for this have never been made public. He did men­
tion often the valuable farm service his station WCCO
at Minneapolis was giving to the farmers of the
northwest; although the farm service was no more
and no less than what the average station thought it
had to give. Bellows, however, asked for more
power for his station, and received it from the com­
mission. Later he became a power in the National
Broadcasters’ Association; and Baker still is morally
certain that this association was another device of the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company to
rivet its power upon the radio field.
It was about this time that the Federal Radio Com­
mission began to state that K-TNT was wabbling
off its wave length. This, even though the Depart­
ment of Commerce’s testing station in Nebraska
listed, each month, K-TNT as one of the stations that
maintained their frequency. Baker went to Chicago
and talked to the radio inspector there. The in­
spector stated that at times every station wabbled
off its frequency; his records showed only one
instance in which K-TNT had done so— and in this
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 103
case they were off only 3,600 cycles. He showed
records of other stations, and insisted that this
instance was nothing to complain about; he pointed
out that some of the high-powered stations owned by
the radio trust, the Chicago Tribune and others; were
off their wave lengths at times 29,000 and 76,000
cycles. Commissioner Bellows excused that; but he
refused to excuse K-TNT’s offense, and punished
Baker for it. He cut the power of K-TNT as low as
1,100 watts. Baker wrote for the reason. The
answer was that the efficiency of the K-TNT trans­
mitter was so .poor, that it was not capable of giving
10,000 watts.
Baker knew that he had the commissioner in a
trap. He demanded that inspectors from the radio
department come to Muscatine and test his trans­
mitter. Finally the inspectors arrived. Mr. Turner,
the Chicago inspector; Baker’s engineer; and Balter
were present in the transmitter room of K-TNT when
the transmitter was tested by the government in­
spector. The man did his own testing, and found
that the switchboard on the K-TNT transmitter
showed the station was putting out over 8,000 watts.
Baker’s engineer then tested the output of the an­
tenna, which showed 14,000 watts or more.
When these reports reached the Federal Radio
Commission, the station’s power was increased to
3,500 watts; they refused to grant more. Baker was
proud of his transmitter, and had good reason to
be; thousands of listeners wrote in that the K-TNT
programs came in “like a ton of bricks on the roof,”
“like a battleship going up the Mississippi,” “like a
TNT bomb”— and letters came from as far as from
Australia, New Zealand, South America, MacMillan’s
\
104 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
north pole expedition, and even from the southern
tip of South America. Another proof of K-TNT’s
efficiency was this. They were on the same wave
length with a Brooklyn station, possibly a thousand
miles away. That station complained about inter­
ference from K-TNT in Brooklyn. Using their sta­
tion as 100%, they made a test, and ascertained that
K-TNT was sending its programs clear into Brooklyn
with 80% the strength of their local programs, gn
efficiency that no other station in the United States
ever showed.
And now Baker’s opponents solicited the aid of
Dr. J. R. Mohler of the United States Department of
Agriculture. It was reported that he had complained
against K-TNT to the commission, on the ground that
it had misquoted him. Baker had merely read a
circular printed by the Farmers Protective Associa­
tion, Box 563, Honeybrook, Pennsylvania; Mohler
was angered because Baker had read what he had
written, as one of the doctors who extolled the scheme
of the packers of America against the American
farmer in their drive for the tuberculin testing of
cattle—a matter we will arrive at, in much detail,
later. Baker filed a sworn affidavit on the
matter with the commission, sending a copy of it to
all the national legislators, members of the com­
mission, and other officials, including the President.
And on the reverse side of the affidavit he pointed
out that, instead of national farm organizations pro­
testing against K-TNT, the Farm Union, the Farmers
Protective Association, the Corn Belt Federation, the
Federated Clubs of Ohio, and labor, had endorsed
his station. But even this did not win his point with
the deaf public officials.
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 105
And now a smaller opponent appeared: the retail­
ers of radio receiving sets. Art Chaudoin of the
Chaudoin Electric Company, John Fuller of the Ful­
ler and Hiller Hardware Company, John Ficken of
the Ficken Furniture Company, and dther retailers
of radio receiving sets, joined in the fight. All these
were selling Bosch, Crosley, Atwater-Kent, RCA and
similar receiving sets at prices of 'from a hundred
dollars up to over two hundred dollars each. They
sold such sets upon trial; when the prospects would
have the sets installed, they were unable to tune
K-TNT out, at least in Muscatine, and get any other
station. Naturally the people of Muscatine, with
common sense, were not going to spend two hundred
dollars for a radio set with such poor selectivity.
For, in the K-TNT stores, they could buy a Baker
radio set for about thirty-five dollars, that would tune
out K-TNT locally, in three degrees on the dial.
Baker had had them especially built, with extreme
selectivity; there are thousands of them still in use
in the midwest and over the country generally.
So it was that Chaudoin, Fuller, and Ficken, no
doubt annoyed because their sets would not move,
while Baker was selling hundreds, started down the
main street of Muscatine, with a petition asking for
a reduction of the power of K-TNT. They asked
the merchants to sign. In self-defense, Baker stated
all these facts over the air from K-TNT, without
mincing any words. He made it clear that only an
ass would pay two hundred dollars for a poorly
selective set, when he" could purchase from Baker
a set built with extreme selectivity for thirty-five
dollars.
The newspapers began to blare out that Baker was
106 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
making personal attacks over his station. These
“attacks” were simply flat facts about radio receiving
sets, which would put money into the pockets of
radio listeners wise enough to act on them. And
Baker sent his solicitors down the street, to call on
the business men to sign a petition in favor of K-TNT.
Then, for the first time, he learned from the lips of
the business men themselves their actual sentiments
towards K-TNT. In a thousand ways the petty
animositis had reached Baker: but he had not tied
them together, and could not understand them. One
radio listener, touring the country, had reached
Muscatine, stopped at a gas station, and asked where
K-TNT was: this was after the station had been on
the air for two years. The attendant blandly said
that there was no such station in Muscatine. Baker
laid this merely to one gas station’s envy of his huge'
gasoline station, which sold gasoline two cents a
gallon cheaper than any other station, and lubri­
cating oil ten cents a quart cheaper: and because
Baker sold five hundred gallons of gasoline to every
fifty he could sell. But now for the first time Baker
got a real census of local business feelings towards
him.
He still cherishes a list of every Muscatine busi­
ness and professional man, and his exact comments
for and against K-TNT secured during that drive
for the petition favorable to the station. The op­
position interests him especially, since his station
drew a million people into Muscatine altogether, who
spent well over a million dollars there; and since
every retailer should credit Baker’s station with
adding from one to five thousand dollars to his sales,
during the life of the station.
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 107
Another thing naturally militated against Baker
with the Federal Radio Commission, even on the
records. The powers in opposition to him were see­
ing to it that a constant flood of letters protesting
against K-TNT were sent in; while it never occurred
to the pleased friendly listeners to write at all, unless
an occasional enthusiastic letter to Baker himself.
A hint from one of the great chain station groups,
which desired to close some independent station to
secure its wave length for some subsidiary of the
combine, would cause its hundreds of thousands of
employees throughout the country to write in letters
of complaint: and thus the record would be padded
with such protests. Even if the station under attack
is forewarned, and collects hundreds or even thou­
sands of letters, its position is not good, after being
closed and thereafter defeated in the courts. When
it goes for succor to its Senator or Representative, in
good faith he may go to the radio commission, to find
out the status of the case. A commissioner could
truthfully say, "Look here, Senator, here are ten
thousand letters of complaint against that station.
We were forced to do something to protect the radio
listeners of America.” Blessed are the radio chain
stations, for they have preempted the air.
And now we come to the actual steps that caused
the withdrawal of K-TNT’s license. They constitute
a dastardly plot and conspiracy to kill the station,
for selfish purposes: callous to the fact that this
meant confiscation of private property, for all that
it was done under the cloak of the law. Each step
in the conspiracy will be revealed, before we are
through.
The whole thing is, at first glance, unbelievable.
108 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
The sensation-blunted public are quite apt to believe
that a charge of this kind is exaggerated. But this
is a book of facts: and the facts about to be unrolled
are of a gravity and importance sufficient to inspire
a governmental investigation into the whole malo­
dorous mess, which will end in a complete restora­
tion to K-TNT of its license, and with punishment of
the offenders.
The press in Iowa gave many columns freely to the
publicity attending the organization of the Iowa
Radio Listeners League. The newspapers broad­
cast the story that the radio listeners of Iowa were
meeting to organize the association, in order to fight
against “direct selling radio stations.” Iowa then
contained three of the largest merchandise-selling
stations in the United States, K-FNF, K-MA, and
K-TNT. The two former were selling merchandise
over their stations a year before Baker started selling
merchandise. The natural presumption was that
the newly formed league would impartially attack
all three stations. Their theory was that a radio
station could advertise all the merchandise they
wished if only they did not mention price. Such a
dividing line between stations beneficial to the public,
and those harmful to it, is arrant nonsense on its face.
Such a would-be enforced secrecy as to selling price
is as ridiculous as if newspaper advertisements were
forbidden to mention price; or as if the merchants
of the state were permitted to display their goods for
sale, but could never even whisper the price.
The papers kept the public informed as to the
progress in the association’s growth, with its mem­
bership fee of a dollar a year. One Francis St. Aus­
tell, a Scotchman, was selected as president of the
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 109
infantile league. Soon commenced a barrage of
press editorials and articles, saying that K-TNT
used canned programs, programs not fit to listen to,
consisting entirely of phonographic records; that
from morning to night all the station did was to bellow
Baker’s wares; that the mentioning of prices should
be prohibited over the air; And the tail of these
articles was invariably that the Iowa Radio Listeners
League was conducting a vigorous fight against direct
selling stations, the slogan chosen to smite K-TNT
with. Thousands of such clippings reached the
Baker office, from loyal supporters; it became clear­
er that K-TNT alone was being violently attacked,
and that Henry Field of K-FNF and Earl May of
K-MA were not being attacked severely. A few
minor articles about these stations, banging and
biffing then as gently as if love-pats were intended,
was all the notice they received. And, of course,
none of these bitter diatribes against K-TNT printed
the station’s side of the story. Nothing about K-TNT
selling coffee and other merchandise from ten to
fifty percent lower than mail order houses or local
stores; nothing about the one hundred percent
guarantee of money back if the customer was not
satisfied; no calling attention to the fact that Baker’s
advertising was intersprinkled with a splendid free
program from morning until night, whereas news­
paper advertising gave the reader nothing free. Nor
would these same papers permit the station to answer
the attacks against it.
Baker pondered a great deal as to why this juvenile
Iowa Radio Listeners League was waging practically
its entire fight against K-TNT. Naturally Baker’s
station had more enemies than either of the other
110 s D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
merchandising stations; because they took the paths
of least resistance, whereas Baker did not hesitate
to unbare the truth about the octopus-like A. T.& T.,
and about the wonderful municipal light plant at
Muscatine, which set the teeth of the privately-owned
public utility interests on edge. And he was making
so much money that he did not have to borrow from
the bankers, which they resented; and he was inde­
pendent of soul, and gaining ground politically, even
to national mention,—not to speak of his direct
charge that they were teamed up with the Wall
Street groups. The capitalistic groups of Iowa
weren’t sleeping any too soundly, with Baker attract­
ing from five thousand to twenty-five thousand people
weekly to his station: such a man would become a
political menace to their entrenched privileges all
too quickly. Here was a real tribune of the farmer,
the laborer, the common people: such a man was a
direct threat to the whole gouging gang.
And then Francis St. Austell, president of the
adolescent league, arrived in Muscatine, to join in
the fight of Art Chaudoin, John Ficken and John
Fuller against Baker, concerning his competition in
selling really selective radio receiving sets for a sixth
of what they asked for ineffectively selective receiv­
ing sets: more than this, to lead this fight. Baker
examined into the past of Austell. He had his record
from the cradle up. The man was a Scotchman, not
naturalized as a citizen of the United States; and
he was presuming to tell American radio listeners
what they should do. Reports came to Baker that
Austell was touring Iowa in a dejected ancient auto­
mobile worth a couple of hundred dollars, selling
what were said to be worthless stocks, bonds and
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 111
securities wherever he could, especially to widows
and orphans. And now Austell was leading the
fight in Muscatine against Baker, and the Journal
was printing sensational stories against Baker, and
boosting the work of Austell and his league. Baker
had two alternatives: to remain silent and let the
unnaturalized Scotchman and three radio set retail­
ers crucify him; the other, to go to K-TNT and tell
the public the facts. Baker chose the latter.
He must have told the truth: for no suit for libel
was ever started against him, for this smashing revela­
tion. And now we must jump ahead to even beyond
the time, June 1931, when the radio commission
closed K-TNT, and Bake;r went to Mexico to build a
far more powerful station. It was in August, 1932,
when the mail brought Baker the following letter,
written upon the stationery of the Union Mission
Hotel, Main Nebraska Street, Norfolk, Virginia.
Behold the letter:
August 6, 1932.
Mr. Norman Baker,
Muscatine, Iowa.
My dear Mr. Baker:
You have abused me so much in former days from
your station KTNT that probably my name will be
familiar to you.
I am wondering whether you would be interested
in knowing the inside history of the attacks on your
station, who was behind them and who financed the
movement to get up that petition in Muscatine which,
started the trouble with the Commission.
I am in possession of a lot of facts which would
prove interesting and valuable to you.
You may be pleased to know that I am out of a
job bt;oke or this letter would not have been written.
112 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
If you are interested and will pay for information
I will write a report.
On receipt of this please wire me if interested.
If not interested throw this letter in the waste­
basket.
Yours truly,
Francis St. Austell
Baker’s heart almost missed a beat. The inside
history . . . . who was behind them . . . . who
financed the movement . . . . Baker answered at
once:
August 12, 1932
Mr. Francis St. Austell,
C/O Union Mission Hotel,
Norfolk, Virginia.
Dear Mr. Austell
I am glad to receive your letter of August 6 written
from Norfolk, Va., and addressed to me at Muscatine,
then forwarded to me here where I am building this
station, the largest in America.
Your letter does not surprise me, although I am
sorry of your financial trouble and when I am in a
public fight, we are.enemies as far as the fight is
concerned, but not personally.
I know you have a lot of valuable information and
there is a time in everyone’s life that they regret
things which have been done and many times those
things are done because of the almighty dollar.
Much would depend Mr. Austell, what your informa­
tion would be worth because the gang finally succeed­
ed in closing KTNT and truly I owe all of you thanks
because if the gang had left me alone, I would still
be in Muscatine upon the hill with KTNT, 5,000
watts limited to daytime reception and now I am
building this, the largest radio station in the world,
150,000 watts, so you can naturally imagine that I
am happy.
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 113
A man or woman never reaches the extreme height
of success until they are forced ahead by thrusts
which stimulate a determination to forge ahead, for
no other purpose than to show what can be done.
You might be a man that I could use in my business
but I don't know your education and ability and
your loyalty to me would have to be proven in case
you were interested in such a connection). You
might' write me in detail a copy of the report that
you would give me, leaving out all the names if you
wish, therefore not divulging your secrets and his
could be in the form of an affidavit unsigned, which
would enable me to judge the value of it.
You understand that deal is now closed, it was
years ago, and I cannot understand how it would be
of any value now, but if you know something, that
could be used successfully in a fight to secure the
license of KTNT for renewal, then it would be good
stuff. ,
Let me hear from you and I am wondering what in
the world ever took you so far from Des Moines to
Norfolk, Va. I know that town well but it has been
years ago since I was there.
I will be here another month completing this station
trying to get on the air by October and in September
must get back to Iowa because I head the Farmer-
Labor ticket in Iowa for Governor, which will be a
hot race.
Your truly,
’Norman Baker
After all, his fight with Austell had been a public
contest; when Baker entered the contest, he faced
the possibility of a good spanking, and when it came
he had taken it like a man. There was no need to
hold a private grudge against a public opponent.
And then Austell answered:
114 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
August 15,1932
Mr. Norman Baker,
Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.
Dear Mr. Baker:
Your letter just received. I had heard that you
were building a big station in Mexico and have often
wondered how you were getting on with it.
With 150,000 watts you will certainly be able to
cover a lot of territory.
As you remark the old fight is over but there are
still people who will be jealous of your 150,000 watts
and will try to throw a monkey wrench into the
machinery.
With regard to the war against you in Muscatine—
it was started by the Public Utilities of Iowa. At
that time you were strongly supporting municipal
ownership and were dangerous to the power com­
panies. They decided to go after you. After it was
started it was easy to hand the fight over to the
medical people who kept it going. Of course I
could give names, of those who financed the starting
of the fight. The manager of the power company
at Moline was of course one. In fact it was at first
purely a public utility fight against you as representa­
tive of municipal ownership. In fairness to myself,
I thought at the time that I was fighting against
“direct selling” which I now regard as perfectly
legitimate.
The Public Utilities having started the fight found
it quite easy to withdraw at the best time for them­
selves. The medical people had a whole case pre­
pared for them. As I see things now I was just
used as a tool and unfortunately did not exact proper
payment for services rendered.
The Commission states that the wave held form­
erly by KTNT has been done away with entirely as
far as Iowa is concerned and it would be very hard
to get a renewal.
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 115
With regard to my being interested in a connection
with your organization I can only say, “Give me a
chance”. As far as education is concerned I can
satisfy anybody. In fact I am very highly educated,
have travelled in many countries and have been
successful as a writer and lecturer. For years I was
in the British Army as an officer. A commission in
the army meant that you had an education equivalent
to a course with a degree at any University.
If you ever see The World Book, an encyclopedia
in ten volumes, extensively advertised by radio, you
will find my name as Staff Editor in the original
edition. This book is in every library and practically
every college and school in the country. I am an
exceptionally good announcer with a very distinct
pronunciation. I speak practically perfect English,
have a good knowledge of French and could guaran­
tee to speak pretty fair Spanish in three months.
Of course I would like to join you. As you say my
loyalty would have to be proved. In the course of
a very eventful life I have never proved disloyal to
anyone who played the game. I like the fight you
have put up and believe I could help you in the
future.
I can sell time, can write continuities, am a good
publicity man and want to go to work. I know a lot
about radio having built every kind of set there is.
Give me a chance and I will show you. I will go to
work for next to nothing to prove myself.
I am going to ask you on receipt of this to write
me whether you will take a chance by helping me to
get back where I belong. A year ago last February
I was badly smashed up in a car accident and have
earned nothing since. I am of very steady reliable
habits.
If you can use me I will feel that I have a real
chance. I have been doing some announcing for a
little station here but it has now gone off the air.
116 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
Really I don’t know what to say about myself
beyond what I have said. For years I have wanted
to connect with a radio station as I can think of noth­
ing that appeals to me as much as radio does. I
want to get to work and can be useful to you.
Will you give me a job? It is a matter almost of
life and death for me to get to work at once so you
can make your own terms provided you will help me
to get to Laredo. I am married and have one
daughter. My wife and child are in Toronto.
I shall be in a fearful state of anxiety until I get a
reply—by wire if possible.
Yours truly,
Francis St. Austell
So Austell was converted to direct selling over the
air, was he! Nothing unusual in that; the power­
ful radio trust chain stations had made the same
switch. Nor did it need Austell to tell Baker that
the same interests in America would seek to throw
a monkey wrench into the machinery of the Mexican
station, X-ENT. Baker had anticipated this; and it
had already begun to happen. But the important
thing in the letter was the light it threw on the fight
against K-TNT.
So the privately-owned public utilities of Iowa had
started the fight, rather than the press! Baker had
at times suspected that; the press barked when the
capitalist whistled. And they were right in their
opposition to Baker, he admitted to himself. He had
broadcast to the world that the old privately-owned
company had sold light and heat at twelve and a
half cents, while the new municipal plant charged
only two and a half, a saving of ten cents per kilo­
watt: hundreds of thousands of dollars deflected
'thus from the pockets of private greed to the pockets
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 117
of the humble citizens. He. had invited manu­
facturers to come and locate in Muscatine, since the
publicly owned plant sold electricity as low as a
cent and an eighth for manufacturing purposes. A
man can not expect applause from the forces of
private greed, when he bucks them successfully.
They had determined that Baker was their most
dangerous enemy, whose mouth must be closed, to
prevent his preaching municipal ownership so success­
fully that he ended the reign of the private overlords
of public utilities. They might have hired a single
gunman to do it; but then there was always the
chance that somebody would have had to go to prison.
They chose the other alternative, silencing K-TNT
and destroying his means of publicity. And they
had turned the fight over to the sixth large group
opposing Baker, the American Medical Association,
unmentioned so far in this book: a monopoly as
powerful as the public utilities group, with a better
organization for control both politically and in the
home. We will delve into their opposition to Baker
very soon.
Austell and his organization had been used as
tools, nothing more; and, typically of callous capital-'
istic employments, they had not even been recom­
pensed adequately for their dirty work. Here was
th manager of the power company at Moline, Illinois,
across the river from Iowa, one of the financial back­
ers of the Iowa Radio Listeners League; one who
helped pay the salary of its president, and who no
doubt was in on his share of the dollar a year exacted
from the Iowa members. It looked to Baker like a
case of conspiracy, between the Iowa public utilities
group and the Moline interests: surely using the mails
118 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
to obtain money under false pretenses was one of the
least of things they had done! -After all, this group
that instigated the fight were merely co-workers with
Insull of Chicago, in public utilities that rob the
people with exorbitant rates for light, power, heat
and gas; with stocks sold to the public so full of
water that a dry spell any summer could throw them
into a receivership; that were rich enough, powerful
enough, and unprincipled enough, if need arose, to
buy public officials, the press. Insull is now in
Greece, to avoid incarceration in a Federal peni­
tentiary—the very man Baker had heard night after
night from his interested radio station WENR in
Chicago, as he advertised his worthless waterlogged
stocks in the various Insull public utilities corpora­
tions ! And there were a lot neither in prison nor in
foreign exile.
If there was a sense of justice and fair dealing in
the governmental authorities, Baker decided, once
let this evidence be placed before them, and they
would see a conspiracy to revoke the license of
K-TNT, wreck it, confiscate Baker’s property, and
ruin him. With such a framed-up case, it was im­
possible for Baker to secure justice from the Federal
Radio Commission: he had to fight blindly, for lack
of this belated information that the president of the
Iowa Radio Listeners League now furnished. These
facts, if Baker had known them then,, could have
been introduced before the radio commission, and
conceivably K-TNT would still be in operation, if the
commission showed any fair-mindedness at all.
There is still time for them to rectify this dreadful
injustice, either voluntarily or at the command of an
aroused public conscience.
A ttacks on K-TNT B egin 119
Now for some other phrases in Austell’s letter.
“The Public Utilities, having started the fight, found
it quite easy to withdraw at the best time for them­
selves. The medical people had a whole case pre­
pared for them. As I see things now, I was just used
for a tool, and unfortunatly did not exact proper
payment for services rendered.” The “medical
people” : they deserve a whole book by themselves.
Why should they unite with the bankers, the press,
the local political gang, the jealous merchants and
retailers, the public utilities grabbers, and the rest of
the logical opponents of Baker’s splendid fight in the
people’s interest? Baker knew why: he smiled
grimly to himself. But first, other incidents of the
fight occurred to him. He thought these over in
order.
Volume One Number One
IN THIS ISSUE
1. Who's To Blame?
2. Free Air, BAH I
3. The Power of Mind
4. She Loses Fifty Dollars
5. Uniform School Books
6. Floods By Air
7. Iowa Mud
8. News As We See It
Other Things of Interest
NEXT ISSUE
The DeKing Outrage, Iowa's Mis­
managed School System, Eleven
Years After The Kaiser, The
Chain Gang and Other Feature»
* T H E V O JO B O B T H E P U B L I C *
CHAPTER VII
ALUMINUM POISONING AND CANCER
In April, 1929, a new magazine appeared on the
newsstands of America. Its name was TNT: The
Naked Truth, and, needless to say, it was a Norman
Baker publication. It fought its courageous course
until December, 1931, when it was discontinued, and
Baker’s Mid-West Free Press replaced it.
Baker announced, during May of 1929, over
K-TNT, that the next month’s issue would carry a
story dealing with the poisons of aluminumware.
For all that Baker acts swiftly on hunches, in this
instance he had moved more slowly than Ms usual
custom. His first suspicion had come to him directly,
although at the beginning it was never more than a
suspicion.
Baker, living alone on East Second Street in Mus­
catine at the' time, was fond of coffee. Regularly he
consumed four to seven cups a day, and sometimes
more. He made his in an aluminum coffee percola­
tor; he could never make it taste right. At his
mother’s house, when he made it in a graniteware
coffee pot, at tasted precisely right. He purchased
an enamelware pot. After that, his coffee at home
was excellent. He became interested in the subject
of poisons from aluminumware; and the huge adver­
tisements of the aluminum interests seeking to
counteract the literature dealing with aluminum
poisoning. University reports, which he later learned
were inspired by aluminum manufacturers, admitted
121
122 ' D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
the poison; but said that the amounts taken up by
the foods while being cooked or standing was in­
finitesimal. Baker recalled that aluminum did not
rust, but that aluminum vessels in constant use de­
veloped holes. These must come from the aluminum
getting into the foods.
Baker began to test the matter in his own labora­
tory. What he learned convinced him he ought to go
ahead. He wrote articles on aluminum poisoning;
the publishers would not accept them. Baker ob­
served that the Wallace Farmer at Des Moines,
Good Housekeeping, Collier’s, The Literary Digest
and other magazines catering to both men and wom­
en, ran advertisements from the aluminum interests.
When the June TNT was being printed, an alumi­
num representative named Bond tried to secure an
advance copy of the article; and, on failing, said that,
if the article appeared, the aluminum companies
would break Baker financially. Baker retorted that,
instead of one article, he would run one a month for
the next six months. The articles, supplemented by
articles by Dr. Charles Betts of Toledo in the mag­
azine on the same subject, constituted the most pow­
erful attack on aluminum poisoning ever delivered.
Baker spread the more vital facts from the articles
through the air over K-TNT. His hearers made tests
for themselves, and destroyed altogether about a
million dollars worth of aluminumware, purchasing
enamelware to replace it. The crusade practically
drove aluminumware out of the midwest stores.
Bond later joined the Muscatine -Chamber of Com­
merce, having switched to selling advertising novel­
ties; at one noon lunch, he rose and denounced Baker
as the man who had ruined his business.
A lum inum P oisoning and Cancer 123
Baker’s researches dug deep. He discovered that
the United States Government aided in suppressing
the facts concerning aluminum poisoning; and per­
mitted the use of aluminum in city water in almost
every city in the United States. Docket No. 540,
November 12, 1925, published by the Federal Trade
Commission and reprinted by a baking powder com­
pany, showed the alum in baking powder to be
poisonous; and alum is an aluminum derivative; be­
ing sodium aluminum sulphate. Its conclusion in­
cluded :
The evidence in this record does not prove
that (aluminum compounds as used in baking
powder) are harmless. The evidence in this
record does prove that there are substantial
grounds upon which to predicate an honest
opinion that they are harmful.
In spite of this, about 60,000 tons of aluminum metal,
or 120,000,000 pounds of aluminum, are used every
year in the manufacture of baking powders in Amer­
ica: one pound per man, woman and child in the
country.
The same substance is used to “ purify” city water.
80% of the people in the United States use water so
purified. At the rate Toledo, Ohio, pays, this means
an annual drain of over $25,000,000 paid to the alum­
inum manufacturers. Baker points out that, if the
76,800,000 people who have to drink this water are
made ill by it only once a year, this means 76,800,000
calls by the doctor, costing more than $153,600,000,
a levy that goes into the pockets of the medical pro­
fession. The aluminum used annually in baking
powders in the United States brings in $16,800,000
additional income to the aluminum overlords. -
124 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
From every quarter the testimony of the doctors
began to come in, corroborating Baker’s findings, as
embodied in the articles in TNT. Dr. Edward Wood,
Professor of Chemistry, Harvard University; Dr.
John Wise, Medical Inspector of the United States
Navy; Dr. Charles L. Olds of Philadelphia; Dr. Wm.
Held, Director of the United States,Health League;
Dr. H. A. McDugian, testifying under oath before the
Federal Trade Commission,—these were only a few
of the voices raised against aluminum poisoning. Dr.
Harry Gideon Wells, Pathologist of the University
of Chicago, more than corroborated their statements.
The Women’s Clubs of Madison, Wisconsin, in July
of 1929 were almost successful in having a bill passed
in the state legislature, providing that manufacturers
of baking powders containing alum must print the
correct name of the aluminum salts on the label.
The bill was sponsored by Assemblyman Philip
Nelson, of Maple, Wisconsin. It was said that some
of the legislators felt that Governor Kohler preferred
not to act on the bill; for, after all, there are large
aluminum manufacturing companies in the State.
There is not, says Baker, a dentist, who can show
ten patients who have worn false teeth with alumi­
num plates for a period of three years, without one
or more of them contracting cancer of the mouth.
Baker has had patients apply at the Baker Hospital,
which he founded later, who lost part of their tongue,
gums and roof of mouth from cancer, which appeared
after they had worn aluminum plates for two years
or longer. The October, 1929, issue of TNT contained
a letter from a dentist, giving his experiences with
aluminum plates. In the first ten years of his prac­
tice, he stated, he made seven aluminum dentures,
\
A lum in um P oisoning and Cancer 125
as he had learned to do in dental college. Later
three of the seven patients died of cancer, and he
has been unable to trace the other four.
And now the aluminum overlords began to show
their teeth. Dr. Betts, who had published an article
in the Toledo Daily Times, was warned to immediate­
ly disclaim or retract his statement antagonistic to
the use of aluminumware, or he would be damaged
financially, and implicated in law suits. He did not
retract. And yet, opposition to the aluminum
interests was dangerous, for the head of the alumi­
num combine, or one of the chief figures in aluminum
manufacture, Andrew W. Mellon, at this time was
Secretary of the Treasury, and the head of the
Internal Revenue Department of the United States.
There is such a thing as investigation of income tax
reports: such may be inconvenient and extremely
expensive, even thought here are no irregularities
found. Baker for a long time has suffered from
investigations of his income tax reports, started
while Mellon was Secretary of the Treasury.
The Income Tax Department, through their auditor
Miller of the Davenport, Iowa, and Omaha offices, is
at the moment of this writing, auditing the books of
the Baker companies. There is no doubt of his legal
right to 'audit these books. But his decisions, and
the decisions of others in the department, that losses
aggregating thousands of dollars cannot be deducted,
is unjust, and contrary to the usual practice. The
stock market crash of 1929 caught Baker with about
$200,000 invested in the market; the ruling has
been that he cannot deduct the losses on these, on the
ground that his previous year’s statement did not
show that he was engaged in the business of stocks,
126 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
bonds, and investments. Of course, the previous
reports did show that for years Baker had been
dealing in stocks and bonds. Baker is fighting this
income tax case now; but the mere fight will cost
him thousands of dollars.
Not that Baker took any of it lying down. He
went right after Mellon, printing in his Midwest Free
Press details of all the corporations that Mellon
controlled, and his refunding of millions of dollars
of the taxpayers’ money back to his own corpora­
tions. These weekly exposes in the Free Press helped
to cause the Congressional investigation of Mellon’s
activities. Before the investigation could get under
way, President Hoover lifted Mellon out of the'
Treasury department, and sent him abroad as am­
bassador to the Court of St. James. Baker’s only
regret is that he is not entitled to all the credit for
the investigation.
Long before this, Baker had begun to feel the
ponderable weight of the opposition of the aluminum
overlords. Newsstand sales for TNT began to fall
off, with increasing momentum. Many dealers
wrote in ordering Baker to send no more copies to
them. Baker could not understand this, as the same
dealers, a short while before, had been doubling and
tripling their monthly orders. He began to inquire
as to the reason for the astonishing drop in orders.
One newsdealer in Pittsburgh, Mellon’s home town,
wrote Baker that the ministers of the city were up
in arms against the magazine, and refused to buy
newspapers from stands where they saw TNT dis­
played. Baker had never printed anything that
should antagonize preachers or religious people; he
believes that every one has a right to his own creed
A lum inum P oisoning and Cancer 127
and dogmas. He has employed Protestants, Jews,
and Catholics indiscriminately, and has discharged
any individual who sought to annoy others with his
religious views. It was not hard to figure out that
the thing that had upset the ministers of Pittsburgh-
was the attack on the Mellon aluminum interests;
evidently the Pittsburgh expounders of the word of
the gentle carpenter from Nazareth were too sensi­
tive to buy newspapers from a stand which sold a
magazine containing an attack, no matter how justi­
fied, on perhaps the wealthiest parishioner in Pitts­
burgh.
A newsdealer from Duluth, Minnesota, wrote an
even more memorable letter. It was written on
tablet stationery with a lead pencil, in answer to the
query as to why he did not want any more TNTs
shipped to him. “No, I cannot use any, and for
heaven’s sake don’t send any more up here. A well
dressed fellow came to my newsstand one day, ask­
ing for a copy of TNT. I sold him a copy. ‘How
many more have you?’ ‘Six’. ‘I’ll take all seven . .’
He paid cash for them, and then said, ‘If we ever
see another copy of that damned magazine on your
newsstand, you’ll soon be without customers, and
we’ll kick your damned newsstand into the middle
of the street.’ And he meant it, too, Mr. Baker.
You can’t realize what the conditions are up here.
So please don’t send me any more, but send me your
bill for the last month, and I’ll send you check.”
In similar ways, the newsdealers throughout the
United States and Canada were “persuaded” to dis­
continue handling the truth-telling magazine; in a
few months its newsstand sales had dropped almost
to zero. Barring subscriptions, there weren’t enough
128 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
sales to buy peanuts for a single lunch for a small
sideshow elephant. Somebody had done a good job.
But, long before this had happened, Norman Baker
had added to his activities a new angle: the investi­
gation of the cure of cancer. It was his courageous
fight in this field which ultimately precipitated his
downfall, temporary though it may prove to be,
in the United States. Let.us see how he was brought
into this, v
In the midsummer of 1929, while the magazine
TNT was only a few months old and was still having
a large newsstand sale, Murray E. King, its editor,
and Baker were on the alert to find some matters
of sensational public interest, which they could
feature in the magazine. At this time Baker, like
most Americans, had been led by the pronounce­
ments of the American Medical Association, and
their subsidiaries the State Boards of Health, to be­
lieve that cancer was one of the most dreaded of all
diseases, and was incurable. Yet even an incurable
disease has a morbid fascination for many readers:
and Baker wondered what he could present on the
subject, that would be novel, sensational, and also
helpful.
He recalled suddenly that several readers had
called to his attention a doctor who had been treat­
ing cancer for years, and who was reported to have
made cures. Baker learned further that the doctor
had a large mortgage on his home, of some fifty
thousand dollars; and that this had been caused by
his fights against the medical group, who had brought
him into court frequently in their efforts to revoke
his license to practice medicine, and had ultimately
broken him financially by this means. Baker pon-
Alum inum P oisoning and Cancee 129
dered: was the man a faker, or did he really have
the ability to cure cancer ? Certainly any doctor who
so advertised would be a faker, a quack, a charlatan,
unless he could prove his facts. The fact that he had
held out so long against the attacks of the medical
groups went a long way towards establishing that
he was no faker, but had a real cure; otherwise, they
would have driven him out of business long before,
and no doubt jailed him in addition.
Baker invited this doctor to come and see him,
telMng him that Baker could do him much harm or
much good; that, if he was willing, Baker would
investigate his cancer cure, and, if it could be estab­
lished, that TNT would give him a big story, with the
headline Cancer Is Curable; whereas, if the investiga­
tion revealed that the man was not curing cancer,
the title would be, Cancer Doctor a Fake. At this
time, Baker didn’t know; the story would be grist to
the TNT mill, either way it turned out.
This was not Baker’s first incursion into medical
matters. In 1926 he had met an Iowa registered
physician, Dr. Barewald, who had been a practicioner
more than twenty years, a broadminded independent
doctor hot dominated by organized doctordom; he
was so distinguished a man, that he had formerly
been mayor of Davenport just up the river. Dr.
Barewald said that he had a cure for varicose veins,
by a simple injection process. He showed Baker
some of his proofs; Baker talked to some of his pa­
tients. One was a carpenter who for months had
been unable to climb a ladder in his trade, as he
suffered from large protruding veins on the leg, only
slightly aided by the elastic stockings some ordinary
doctor had prescribed. When Baker talked with
130 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
the man, he had no trace of the veins, and the man
told a wonderful story of his complete cure, which
had then taken place more than two years before.
He and other patients convinced Baker that Dr.
Barewald had a cure. At this time, let it be noted
that the medical profession claimed that varicose
veins were not curable; they were resorting to opera­
tions, removing part of the veins, or were using elastic
bandages to keep the veins from protruding too much,
and bursting and perhaps causing death even though
this might mean that the varicose veins would pro­
duce leg ulcers, and the dreadful condition called
milk leg. Baker was convinced at last, and went
into a partnership with Dr. Barewald known as the
Tangley Institute, Muscatine, Iowa, for the treat­
ment and cure of varicose veins and leg ulcers by a
simple painless injection method.
The Davenport newspapers released a big feature
story, dealing with Dr. Barewald’s discovery of a cure
by the injection method. The next day, a Chicago
newspaper carried a news item from the president
of the American Medical Association, denying the
discovery, and stating that there was no known cure
for varicose veins. Needless to say, this official or
semi-official pronouncement upset the doctor, who
feared, as he was now in conflict with the American
Medical Association, that they would give him all
sort of trouble, and might try to revoke his license,
on the ground that he was practicing medicine un­
ethically. He brought the trouble to Baker, in some
bewilderment. Baker suggested that the article be
answered in the Associated Press, by simply saying
that if the president of the American Medical Associa-
A luminum P oisoning and Cancer 131
tion would send a varicose vein patient to Dr. Bare-
wald, at Davenport, that the doctor would return
the patient cured. From then on, the newspaper
attacks ceased; though for a long time the national
and state medical journals preached to the doctors
who compose the national and state societies the
fallacy of treating varicose veins by injection, brand­
ing the method as another medical fake.
Baker cites this, in connection with his cancer in­
vestigation, as evidence that a layman may investi­
gate a cure or an alleged cure, even more efficiently
than the American Medical Association. For their
committee is usually loaded with members •
of the
association, who are often prejudiced in advance
against the innovation. If it is by a secret formula,
which they cannot get hold of to capitalize for them­
selves, they are inclined to condemn it, and thus de­
prive the public of a cure; while they continue to
charge high fees for treating the same ailment even
while they pronounce it incurable. For, after all,
as things are constituted now, doctors remain slaves
of their livelihoods.
Baker started his investigation of the alleged can­
cer cure in the same spirit. First he told the doctor
that he would not commence the investigation unless
the doctor requested it, as he had no desire to ridi­
cule or persecute anyone by undesired publicity.
The doctor requested that the investigation go ahead.
He gave Baker the names of more than twenty pa­
tients, whom he said he had cured of cancer, many of
them living within a hundred and fifty miles of Musca­
tine. He presented a description of each case, and
urged Baker to call and talk personally with each pa­
tient. Baker shook his head. He was not interested in
132 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
past successes: a dime, a good cigar, a box of candy,
could purchase all of the medical recommendations
anyone would want to use. If TNT was to investi­
gate the method, its own committee, without a doctor
on it, either of the drugless or the drug variety, would
select five cancer patients, send them to the doctor
in Missouri, and judge his treatment by his success
with the test patients. Only if this test was satis­
factory would the committee call upon previous
alleged cures, to see how long they had taken, and
compare them with the arbitrary five-year period
set by the American Medical Association. For the
association insists it will not investigate a cancer
cure of less than five'years’-duration, though in the
cases of other diseases an hour’s cure suffices them.
A price was arranged for the cost of the treatment,
including room and board; Baker was also to pay
some of the expenses of the patients. He was to
announce over K-TNT the beginning of the investiga­
tion, and ask for volunteers from various parts of the
country, out of whom the five would be selected. Of
course, Baker realized that patients must be selected
who really had cancer, to prevent the medical associa­
tion from taunting, “But how do you know it was
cancer?” To prevent this, patients were selected in
the extreme advanced stages of the disease, who had
been to the Mayo Brothers Clinic, the Iowa State
University, or to other reputable doctors who had pro­
nounced the cases as cancer. Baker’s files contain
the records of the Mayo Clinic, at Rochester, Minne­
sota, and the other doctors, given to him by the pa­
tients selected.
The test patients were told that this was an in­
vestigation merely. None were promised or guaran-
A lum inum - P oisoninq and Cancer 133
teed a cure, but were taken at a weekly rate of about
thirty dollars for room, board, nurse, medicine and
doctors’ fees complete. In some cases Baker paid
the transportation, while several were not charged
a cent for anything, being regarded as wholly charity
cases.
Sufferers from cancer and several other diseases
are ashamed of the fact, though without good reason;
and many of these are averse to having their names
published. In mentioning these five cases the names
will be left blank. But their, correct names and
addresses are now matters of court record, and are
on file in the Baker office.
The first patient
selected was a wo­
man living in a
houseboat on the
Mississippi, twenty-
two miles from
Muscatine, suffer­
ing from an ad­
vanced cancer on
her thigh close to
the hip. She had
been treated by
local physicians of the Muscatine County Medical
Association, and also at the Medieal College of
the Iowa State University. Under their treat­
ment the cancer grew from a small spot to a
large- open sore; and after all methods failed to
stop the increasing malignancy, radium was used.
The woman was badly burned by the radium, as
photographs indicate. This radium burn was about
four inches long, and appeared to be about three
Test Patient No. 1
134 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
inches deep; an average-sized orange could slip into
the opening thus made. The Iowa State Medical
College had dismissed her as incurable; she was sent
home with morphine pills to quiet the pain, and she
was expected to die soon. To get the American
Medical Association in a trap, Baker wrote them a
letter on plain paper, signing a fictitious name, tell­
ing them that he had a relative suffering from cancer,
who had been treated by the doctors of this medical
college with the use of radium, and who had been
then sent home as incurable: did they know of any
treatment that could still be used? Their answer
stated that, if the woman was treated by the State
Medical College, nothing more could be done for her.
Baker wrote further, stating that he had heard of
alleged cures by this Missouri doctor; had they
heard of him, and could they recommend him? They
replied that they knew of the man, and advised
Baker to have nothing to do with him, as he was a
“crude quack.” And so the American Medical
Association was on record: what would the doctor
turn out to be?
History of the treatment, and results, in the case
of patient number one: The patient had been suffer­
ing untold agonies, and had used morphine so much
that she had become addicted to narcotics. Three
days after the treatment started, the pain dis­
appeared, and narcotics were no longer necessary.
The hard radium-burned cancerous mass began to
soften and diminish. Much hope was held out for
her recovery,— if not complete, at least to such an
extent that many happy years would be added to her
life. Shortly after her treatment started, she was
called home on account of the illness of her mother.
Doctors, D yn am iters ano Gunmen 135
The mother died, and the patient did not return for
the rest of the treatment. When she left, the doctors
recorded that the cancerous mass was about half
healed. Baker visited the woman’s home on the
houseboat after her return, with a doctor. Instead
of the sore being three inches deep, it was so healed
that it was not more than an inch deep. Signs of
healing were visible at the edges of the sore. The
patient was being cared for by a woman, at this
time; there were no screens on the houseboat, and
hundreds of flies were bothering the patient, making
a very unlovely and unsanitary sight. Since her
mother’s death, the patient said, she was not able to
continue the treatment, and never returned. Thus
ends test patient number one, with at least great
improvement.
Patient number two
was a man from Mo­
line, Illinois. He had
just returned from the
Mayo Clinic, where
his case had been
diagnosed as cancer
of the throat, with
removal of the vocal
organs recommended.
He told the doctors
that he would rather
die than be complete­
ly speechless, and re­
fused to permit the
operation. Instead,
he went home to Moline to die. Friends had
heard the K-'FNT offer concerning test patients.
Test Patient No, 2
136 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
and his wife had brought him to Baker’s office
in Muscatine. He could not talk above a low
whisper, at this time; Baker could not understand
what he was saying, and the wife had to act as his
interpreter. He was an iron molder by trade, in one
of the Moline foundries. He was told that it would
take at least three months to treat him properly,
with no false promises or guarantee of a cure. He
accepted. One month later, he came back to Musca­
tine unannounced and entered Baker’s office. Baker
was astounded. The man smiled at the naive aston­
ishment. “What in the world are you doing here?”
asked Baker. The man answered in a normal tone
of voice, to Baker’s amazement, and said that the
little resident hospital in Missouri was crowded, and
he feared tubercular infection of his throat, because
the doctor had placed two tubercular patients in his
room, one of them so far advanced in the disease that
he had to be brought into the room on a stretcher.
This patient never returned to Missouri. After
thirty days’ treatment, he talked in normal voice,
though he said that at the end of each day, because
he talked too much, he experienced a tired feeling
in his throat muscles. Baker told him he was like
a boy with a new bicycle; he had been unable to talk
for months, and now he wanted to make up for that
long silence all in one day. Baker advised him to
rest his vocal organs, by talking as little as possible
for a month or more, and urged the man to return
and complete his treatments. The patient said that
he was feeling fine, that he was all right, that he
could talk now, and was going back to his work in
the foundry. Baker advised against this; the dust
of the foundry, that he would have to breathe, would
Alum in um P oisoning .and Cancer 137
irritate the throat condition, and was bound to make
it worse. He smiled, and said, “I’ll try it, anyhow.”
Months afterward, after Baker had opened the Baker
Hospital at Muscatine, he returned for treatment.
His voice was again in a bad condition. He took
several weeks’ treatments at Muscatine, and his
voice started to improve; but for reasons of his own
he decided to go to Chicago and have an operation
performed on his throat, because he thought that the
recovery was not rapid enough. Baker even called
in a local physician, who agreed to perform the opera­
tion if required. Baker advised against it, sure that
no operation cured cancer. He had contracted a
severe cold which settled in the throat area. The
patient left for home, giving some plausible excuse,
and later Baker heard that he had gone on to
Chicago. He had a prominent
physician there perform the op­
eration, and was killed on the
operating table during the ad­
ministration of the anesthetic.
He never regained conscious­
ness. Killed is the word I use:
if he had not gone on that op­
erating table, he might still be
alive. He was alive when he
walked into the operating
room, dead when they pushed
him away on the operating
table. That ertded test case
number two.
The case of the third patient
was pitiful indeed. The man
Teat Patient No. 3 was a painter, from Muscatine;
138 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
in the infancy of the case, he had been treated by
doctors of the Muscatine Medical Society. Later,
Dr. Beveridge of Muscatine started to operate for
cancer of the stomach, and actually cut the patient
open. He reported that he saw the large mass of
cancerous matter, and decided that it had reached a
stage too late for an operation to save the man’s
life. And so he sewed up the wound he had inflicted,
and sent the man home to die as incurable. To suffer
from more rapid growth of the cancer, caused by the
tender scarred tissue caused by the surgeon’s knife.
The man was tubercular, as well, and had not been
able to eat solid food for six months; during this
time, he had subsisted entirely on liquids. Baker
was eating his supper in the K-TNT cafe, when a
woman with two little children hanging to her dress
came in the front door, and spoke to the cashier;
and she came over and said that the woman wanted
to speak to Baker. He was tired, he was nervous
from a busy day’s activities, it generally riled him to
be disturbed in such a condition while eating. But
he told the cashier to send her over. Then it was
that Baker learned of this case for the first time.
She asked if Baker would accept the case as one of
his test patients. From the description, Baker felt
that the case was hopeless, but still worthy of trial.
Baker accepted the case, and agreed to pay for the
husband’s treatment. It was a charity case, strictly
at Baker’s expense. The husband went to Missouri
for treatment. He was skin and bones by this time;
the doctors corroborated the presence of tuberculosis.
When he reached the Missouri hospital, the entrance
to his stomach had practically closed. Water could
not enter; when he drank it, it would run out when
A lum inum P oisoning and Cancer 139
he stooped over. Two weeks’ treatment showed
great improvement, and after a few days the cancer­
ous mass had softened to such a degree that food
could now enter the stomach. Soon he was eating
solid food again, for the first time in six months—and
all in about one months’ treatment! Doctors re­
ported that the hard mass in the abdomen had been
reduced, until it was about the size of a walnut. And
then complaints began to come in from the doctor
and attendants that the patient was unruly, and
would not follow instructions. Things given him to
eat he would cunningly throw away, pretending that
he had eaten them. It was suggested that Baker
write him a letter. Baker wrote him that there were
two roads he might travel, and he must make his
own choice. One was the road to the grave, leaving
a splendid wife and his lovely children; the other
the road to a possible cure, with years of pleasure
ahead of him with his wife and children. If he
continued his unruliness afcd disobedience, Baker
wrote, that would force him on the road to the grave;
if he changed his tactics, was agreeable and followed
instructions, the road he had chosen meant a pleasant
future. Baker was a little aggrieved that the man
was acting so, especially when he was a charity pa­
tient. He had not yet learned the vast ingratitude
of those who receive charity, which flows out of their
natural sense of inferiority at having to stoop for
charity to others; nor had he fully grasped how
disease creates morbid psychology, so that one who
has for months suffered from such a serious affliction
may not return to emotional normalcy of conduct for
years thereafter. In a little while, the wife ascertain­
ing that some cancer cases were now being treated
140 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
under Baker’s auspices at Muscatine, became lonely
for her husband, and wanted him to return to Musca­
tine, to continue his treatments there. Baker ad­
vised against this, but could not control her wishes.
And the man continued to smoke cigarettes. On
his arrival at Muscatine, after being examined by Dr.
Norton and another doctor, the patient gave up his
own case mentally, lay around the house, wouldn’t
exercise for his tubercular condition, even when the
doctor would drive him out in his automobile and put
him out a short distance from his home, for a short
distance of forced exercise. His wife told Baker
that, while he was back in Muscatine, he ate pancakes
and- eggs for breakfast; and altogether he became
so unruly, that the doctor told him that he would
have to obey instructions, or that the treatments
would be discontinued. In the end this was done.
Dr. Howe took over the case, and in five weeks the
patient died.
During this time, with the Baker Hospital opera­
ting in Muscatine and the Muscatine County Medical
Society, to which Dr. Howe belonged, fighting Baker
in every way, it was reported to Baker that the
doctors wished to find what medicines the Baker
Hospital was using. Baker had taken the formula
of the Missouri doctor, had perfected it, and was
using this with other preparations. The widow was
approached, and asked for permission to have an
autopsy performed. She must have known the
purpose for which this was desired, namely, to secure
some knowledge of the Baker formula. She con­
veniently forgot all that Baker had done for her. in
taking her sick husband in as a charity patient at his
own expense. She gave the permission. She per-
A lum in um P oisoning and Cancer 141
mitted the Muscatine organized medical group to
perform an autopsy, remove all the organs, and bury
her husband with straw or some foreign material
substituted for the organs. Almost every doctor in
the county, except those in the Baker Hospital, who
were not invited, attended this secret autopsy. The
autopsy was to “advance science,” they said. Dr.
Howe was not friendly to Baker, in part because of
his knowledge that the patient had lived while under
the care of the Baker Hospital, and had died when
in Dr. Howe’s care; and because Baker had had to
have the doctor’s sister, a teacher in the local schools,
reprimanded for mistreatment of the daughter of
Baker’s own superintendent, Mr. Bellows, whom we
will come to soon,—the mistreatment, it was said,
being because the girl’s father worked for Baker.
Ultimately the organs of the dead cancer patient
were sent to the Iowa State University for analysis.
But too long had elapsed: the search proved fruitless,
and Baker’s formula was never discovered. To the
end the doctors never admitted that this was the
purpose of the analysis. And, as a final grace note
to her ingratitude, on one occasion, when Baker’s
representative went to the widow’s home, after her
husband’s death, to talk over important matters with
her, she concealed Dr. Howe in her home, so that he
could eavesdrop on the conversation.
Patient number four, a man from Kansas, came to
Baker direct from the Mayo Brothers Clinic. They
had performed a painful operation on him, removing
the greater part of his jaw, and sent him home to die.
The pictures of him show the result of the Mayo
operation, which left a hole entirely through the
cheek. The swollen upper lip and the hard can-
142 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
cerous mass under the chin are clearly visible. The
man had mentally given up all hope of a cure.
According to the report of Baker’s representative, in
three weeks the swelling of the upper lip had entirely
disappeared, and the entire solid mass under the chin
had started to soften. Even the cancerous mass at
the edge of the jaw, where the operation had taken
place, showed signs of healing. Baker’s representa­
tive stationed at the hospital, Mr. Bellows, reported
that the patient came
to his room very much
excited, and ex­
claimed; “Look, Mr.
Bellows—look at my
lip! It’s as soft and
natural as yours!
Feel how the swollen
place under my chin
is softening!” He saw
what improvement
was possible in cancer
in such a short time,
and thought of what
had been done to him
by the doctors, which
would disfigure him
for life. Raising his
hand above his head,
Test Patient No. 4 he swore by the
Eternal that he would go back to the doctors
that had operated on him, and blister them. Later
Baker heard vague reports that there had been
trouble between him and the doctor who was treat­
ing him; one account was that this arose when the
Alum in um P oisoning and Cancer 143
doctor discovered some property in his name in
Kansas, and demanded a fee that he refused to pay.
The outcome beyond this is unknown. Baker had
no control over the Missouri doctor who treated him,
except to discontinue the tests; and they were too
promising to do this.
The fifth patient was a middle-aged woman from
Galesburg, Illinois,
with cancer of the
breast. She was in
one of K-TNT’s large
Sunday audiences,
while Baker was ex­
plaining the search
for test patients from
the lawn studio. She
came up to the plat­
form, interrupted the
speaker, and said that
she wanted to be a
test patient. Dr.
Barewald, of the
Tangley Institute, was
in his office at K-
TNT, which he kept
open every Sunday
afternoon subject to
calls; he at once examined her, and pronounced it an
obvious case of cancer. After a few weeks of the treat­
ment. the cancerous mass was softening rapidly and
gradually disappearing. But her extreme.nervousness
caused a lot of trouble among the other patients.
She complained of everything connected with the
hospital ; even Baker had to write her, asking her to
144 D octors, Dyn a m iters and Gunmen
be more accepting. She finally left the hospital to
visit her home, promising to return for the rest of
the treatments. This was the last ever heard of
her.
And there was a patient number six, an entirely
unexpected patient. This was Baker’s own superin­
tendent, Mr. Bellows. For fifteen years, as Baker
knew, he had suffered from stomach trouble, and
had had to be careful of his diet all of that time,
most foods being forbidden. He went to Dr. Lamb,
of Davenport, a pathologist, for examination and
diagnosis.. The diagnosis was of a stomach ulcer
about the size of a dime. He prescribed a stringent
diet. After eight months, when he showed no signs
of the mental and physical struggle he was going
through, he came into Baker’s private office and
almost collapsed on a chair. “Baker, I’m.aH in. I
can go no further. I’m so sick, I don’t care whether
I live or die. I’ve had a hemorrhage for eighteen
hours straight.” Baker told the man he thought he
was getting well, as he had heard no complaint from
him for eight months; he could see at a glance what
a wreck the man really was. “I’ve been using all
my mental power to get well. I can’t do it. I give
up.” Baker picked up the phone, and called the
man’s wife. “Mrs. Bellows, pack your husband’s
grip. He’s off on the first train tonight for Missouri,
to undergo treatment.” She answered that she
would; that she thought that was the place where
he ought to go. When Baker hung the receiver up,
Bellows shook his head. “T can’t go, Baker. I’m
not able to, financially. Later I may be able to . . .”
Baker handed him three hundred dollars in bills, and
told him to take the money and not let finances
A lum inum P oisoning and Cancer 145
worry him: he was to leave on the first train, the
11:00 P. M. Bellows offered a note for the three
hundred; Baker told him it was a gift, and not a
loan, to prevent his worrying about ever having to
pay it back. Baker said he only wanted him to go
to Missouri and get well, and make up his mind that
he was going to do so, no matter how long it required.
Bellows arrived at the hospital in Missouri, and
diagnosis showed seven distinct cancerous lumps in
his stomach. He acted as Baker’s representative at
the hospital, and kept Baker advised of the test pa­
tients; this gave Baker a check on the doctor’s re­
ports. At this time Baker had already made
arrangements with one of the Missouri doctor’s
former assistants, a drugless doctor, Dr. Gearing,
well advanced in years, to come to Muscatine for
conference. After remaining thirty ■days under
treatment, with rapid improvement in every way,
Bellows became discontented. He wanted to come
back to work; Baker insisted that he remain. He
wrote Baker that all lumps except one had entirely
disappeared, and that he would be better off resum­
ing his work, while the treatments could continue
under Dr. Gearing, at Muscatine. Baker agreed
finally. To make sure that the lumps had dis­
appeared, Baker had him go to a local practioner,
Dr. Oliver—a semi-independent, regarded as an out­
law or rebel doctor, even though he did belong to
the county medical society, and let his name be signed
to advertisements against Baker. Dr. Oliver ex­
amined Bellows in Baker’s presence, and said there
was no sign of a lump remaining, and that he believed
all had disappeared. In spite of this diagnosis, Baker
trusted the Missouri doctor, and had the treatments
146 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
continued under Dr. Gearing. In a short time treat­
ments were discontinued, and Bellows was pro­
nounced cured. He was eating anything he desired,
no restricted diet, and could eat a beefsteak as
quickly as anyone; cole slaw and cabbage, which for
years he had not been able to eat, he now relished.
This was in September, 1929. Bellows worked with
Baker until he was discharged in 1932; when last
heard of, he was running a barber shop in Eockford,
Illinois. From 1929 to 1932 he remained in Baker’s
employ, without a day’s lay-off on account of sick­
ness.
Out of the six test patients, none received full treat­
ment except Mr. Bellows; and he was absolutely
cured. Without the course, Baker is sure that he
could not have lived three months from the day he
collapsed in the private office. His reports gave
the details of the discontent of the many patients in
the Missouri hospital, especially as to the unsanitary
living conditions. All the patients were given castor
oil; and there was only one toilet, which made them
form into a line, and forced many to seek relief in
the yard and chicken house. Conditions like this
made it impossible for Baker to go into partnership
with this doctor. Keports reached Baker that there
was a man who hung around the hospital, claiming
that he was the “fixer.” When a new patient
arrived, this man would visit him, secure information
as to how much he was paying the doctor; and then
he would trick the doctor out of about half of what
the patient was paying. The doctor is reported to
have given such sums up many times, to prevent
suppositious attempts to revoke his license. Baker
gave the radio advertising talks for the doctor over
A lum inum P oisoning and Cancer 147
K-TNT that he had agreed to; but the doctor never
paid any of these advertising bills.
Then Baker sent Bellows to make the rounds of the
doctor’s former patients, with a camera, and secured
stories, affidavits and photographs which established
that the cures had been permanent. Here was a'
woman who had been treated for cancer in 1923,
and it had been entirely cured; her brother had had
cancer of the liver, and had recovered under this
doctor’s treatments, at about the same time. An­
other woman swore to her complete cure from can­
cer of the urethra, her son’s cure from cancer affect­
ing his sight; and a friend’s cure of cancer, after he
had been sent home to die by a famous clinic. There
were so many of these, that Baker was utterly and
finally convinced.
So it was that, in the December, 1929 issue of
TNT, he came out with an article revealing all these
facts, headed by the prpud title Cancer is Conquered.
More than that, the same issue announced that pa­
tients thereafter were to be treated at a new enter­
prise, the Baker Institute, at Muscatine, which was
opened to the public on November 27, 1929. He
had arrived, from his painstaking tests, at the con­
clusion that— we quote from the December, 1929,
TNT—
the worst cases of cancer can be permanently
cured. He challenges the world to investigate
and disprove this broad and positive statement”
by the facts. All that he asks is open-minded
investigation—
But that was not what he got.
C H A P T E R V I I I
THE EMBATTLED DOCTORS BEGIN TO FIGHT
Baker, with his typical forthright honesty, had
made an announcement of his discovery even before
the printed one. In November of 1929, he went be­
fore the camp of the organized enemy—only, as yet,
he had not recognized that organized doctordom
could be so short-sighted as to throw any possible
obstacle in the way of a sincere lover of humanity,
who had aided in the discovery of a cure for one
of mankind’s worst scourges, the curse of cancer.
He presented himself, with the full report of his
committee, before a doctor member of the Muscatine
County Medical Society, and told of what had hap­
pened to his six test patients, amply buttressed by
photographs; and, in addition, he detailed the ad­
ditional photographs and affidavits of cures from
cancer, tuberculosis, goiter, gall-bladder trouble, and
similar diseases, accomplished by the doctor whose
method Baker had investigated, without the use of
operations, radium or X-ray. Baker, in his sincere
naivete, suggested that the organized doctors start
a hospital in Muscatine, import this Missouri doctor
to teach the technique of curing cancer, and then
make the locality a world-center of the cure of can­
cer.
Only a high-souled idealist could have had this
dream. No sane group of lovers of humanity, espec­
ially no group of skilled tenders and healers of the
sick, could possibly have refused such a glittering
proposal. It would have altered the world’s medical
148
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 149
history, and made Muscatine one of the world’s most
important health centers. But this group turned
Baker down cold. One of the leading practitioners
laughed: “You mean right, Baker, but the trouble
with you is that you’ve let this doctor pull the wool
over your eyes. Don’t you realize that, if there was
a cure for cancer, our medical association would
already know about it, and it would have been pub­
lished already in the Journal of the American Medical
Association?” The other silly heads nodded in sagely
foolish agreement. It was like a conference of
savage Indian medicine men, faced with the first
Indian who had discovered that fire could be made
by rubbing one stick upon another: “Our fathers
never heard of this. If it were so, we would already
know it, for we are the wise ones. -Let us hear no
more of it.”
Baker fought them back as brilliantly as he was
able to. But when did eloquence move solid insen­
sate stone? “The trouble with you, doctor, is that,
like so many men— especially so many men in the
so-called learned professions, law, medicine', religion,
and the like—you don’t really expect progress in
man’s knowledge. At best, you limit all progress
to that through orthodox channels. You think only
your medical society has medical knowledge; I know
of not one discovery your medical societies have made,
now recognized as of permanent value to man from
a health standpoint. No man will condemn a thing,
without investigation, unless he is an unprogressive
ignoramus. All I’m asking you people to do is to
investigate; and then, if you find claims are utterly
substantiated, to take advantage of this discovery
I bring to von start your hospital, and earn the un-
150 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
dying gratitude of mankind the world over for your
progressiveness.’’
Insensate stone: it was impossible to move them.
When he saw at last that nothing could move them,
he announced that there was nothing left for him
to do but start his own hospital, and show by cures
that the scourge which they pronounced humanly
incurable was curable. The first patient was ad­
mitted into the hospital on December 14, 1929.
Already the first TNT article was on the stands:
the next two issues contained, in addition to the
story of the Baker tests of the method, his investiga­
tion of the Missouri doctor’s previous cures. And
then, the man who had been called the “fixer” at
the Missouri hospital, got in his work. He called
upon the patients whose affidavits and photographs
had been published, and sought to cause Baker
trouble from them. He persuaded one woman to
threaten suit for fifty thousand dollars against Baker,
through her attorneys in Kansas City, because he had
published her affidavit and photograph. She had
given Baker full permission to publish; when he
established this to the satisfaction of her attorneys,
needless to say the suit was never brought. , Baker
had hints that the agreement had been three-fold—
one third of whatever was recovered to the patient,
one-third to the lawyers, one-third to the trouble­
making “fixer.” But it was not profitable to divide
nothing three ways: and that was all they succeeded
in getting.
And now, the organized doctors, who had let the
golden cup pass from them, began to rage and vent
their spite in every way they could conceive.
Baker had announced repeatedly over K-TNT the
K
JV
?
THE POPULAR BAKER HOSPITAL
Exterior view of Baker Hospital at Musca­
tine, Iowa- It was from the upstairs room
that shots were fired at gunmen, as explained
herein.
Usual crowd of patients that iive outside
the Hospital awaiting entrance to hospital
for treatment each morning.
152 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
opening of the hospital for the cure of cancer. Can­
cer patients began to come from all parts of America
and Canada. Soon there were six hundred of them
registered. Some of the beds had to be removed
to make additional treating rooms; the time arrived
when there were eleven physicians, all licensed to
practice in Iowa, and fifty nurses. As fast as a pa­
tient was pronounced cured, he would want to tell
the story of his cure over K-TNT; and this too
spread word of the good work.
Muscatine began to boom. There were only
ninety-five beds now in the hospital; many of the
patients had to live in private rooms and rooming
houses; hotels were jammed, except for a few rooms
reserved for transients. Over the air Baker begged
the people of Muscatine to make more room for
patients in their homes. Many families, who had
never rented rooms before, did so now, to accommodate
the flood of sufferers. Some patients slept on cots
in the hallways of private homes, paying five dollars
a week for the privilege. Many patients could find
no room at all in Muscatine, and had to live in Daven­
port, thirty miles away up the river, commuting daily
to the hospital for their treatments by automobile,
by bus, by electric interurban. And, in addition to
Baker’s printed words, and his own and the cured
patients’ stories over the air, their mouth-jto-mouth
praises of the hospital tingled throughout the con­
tinent.
Trouble started. It became increasingly difficult
for Baker to secure enough doctors. Doctors told
him that they were afraid to work at the Baker
Hospital, for fear that their licenses would be re­
voked by the influence of the State Medical Society
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 153
on the State Health Board and the State Health
Department. Dr. J. L. Statler, Baker’s chief phy­
sician at,the start, was refused renewal of his license
by the Iowa State Health Department. Baker de­
fied them. Dr. Statler continued working without
the license renewal card, which is issued every June
to every licensed physician in Iowa upon payment of
two dollars. Doctors would come, work a few weeks,
and leave quickly and mysteriously. While they
were working at the hospital, they would receive
unsigned letters something of this tenor:
Dear Doctor:
I am writing you as a friend, I hear you are
going to be cited for a hearing befbre the Medi­
cal Board, who are out to revoke your license,
because you work at the Baker Hospital. Take
this tip, given in a friendly spirit, and govern
yourself accordingly if you wish to retain your
license.
And this, my friends, in the name of all the gods
that ever lived, was part of organized doctordom's
attempts to prevent the cure of cancer: to saddle
mankind forever with this hideous agonizing killing
scourge, in spite of the successful efforts of a great
lover of humanity, who was offering the cure of the
dread disease broadcast to men! It was an attempt
to throttle Norman Baker, merely because he was
healing the grievously sick. The mind revolts, the
stomach turns, at thought of such hellish blindness
upon the part of the trusted organized healers, who
still grow fat only upon man’s continuing sickness.
Doctors of the Muscatine County Medical Associa­
tion. each morning when driving to their office down
Mulberry Street, were irresistibly fascinated by the
154 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
sight of the hundreds of patients waiting at the front
door of the hospital, for the eight o’clock opening
of the doors, when they would receive their treat­
ments. It made the myopic unworthy doctors sick,
at thought of Baker’s success, and their collective
failure. They must have said a thousand times, in
their short-sighted blindness, “This thing cannot go
on any longer. If it continues, we will lose all of
our high fees for operations, for X-ray treatments,
for radium applications on cancer patients. The
Baker Hospital is flourishing; our Muscatine Clinic
is on its last legs and may close, (now closed) The
local city hospitals are practically all empty, and this
damned Baker’s preachings over radio, about cancer,
tumors, stomach troubles, gall-bladder, kidney, blad­
der and rectal troubles, appendicitis, tonsilitis, hem­
orrhoids, varicose veins and his doctors curing them
without operations, X-ray or radium, will rob us of
thousands of dollars.” For doctors are still slaves
of their incomes.
The Muscatine medics got together. Two of the
doctors, who had hitherto always been independent,
joined the Muscatine County Medical Society, with
the rest of the sorry sheep, and together all of them
placed a full page advertisement in the Muscatine
Journal showing the picture of a man in armor
with sword in hand thrust at the sky, screamingly
headlined The Defense of Health. A lower lesser
headline ran, Analysis of 1,500 Applications for the
Saunders Cancer Awards, by George A. Soper, Ph.
D., Managing Director of the American Society for
the Control of Cancer. Page 15, of the August,
1930, TNT,' gives the advertisement in full. It stated
that the prize offer had expired; and that the effort
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 155
"to find a solution of the cancer problem through
the offer of a monetary reward" has merely demon­
strated the futility of such an effort. The advertise­
ment is signed in bold black type, Muscatine County
Medical Society, followed by the appended names
of twenty-seven doctors. The whole advertisement
took the stand that cancer was still incurable; in
spite of this, organized doctordom was still leading
the poor suffering cancer patients to the operating
table, the X-ray machine table, the radium table,
with the exaction of a high fee for such non-curing
activities: and it is reported that the total fees for
such treatments in one year in the United States alone
totals the staggering sum of eighty-two million dol­
lars. The doctors have a stereotyped phrase to cover
their non-success: "Operations, radium and X-rays
are the three recognized treatments for cancer.”
The doctor does not add—there is no record avail­
able of a doctor adding— “But organized medicine
also holds that your cancer is incurable.” And when
the operation takes place, the bloody mass is pulled
out of the doctor-inflicted wound, and cancer cells
drop back into the wound from the blood dripping
from the removed mass, and other cancer cells have
eluded removal, and the trouble starts all over again:
the patient no better, the doctor the better by a little
practice and from a hundred to a thousand dollars
exacted for the operation, depending upon the pa­
tient’s ability to pay. To the rich, the gouge is much
larger.
Cancer comes back, Baker ascertained, in nearly
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, 'according to
Dr. Mayo, of the Mayo Clinic. Often the stricken
patient returns to the same doctor. He does not
156 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
dare recommend an operation again; instead, he
suggests X-rays; there is X-ray therapy at so much
the minute, and the X-rays successfully scatter the
cancer, and spread it to the good tissues, often caus­
ing, in addition, an incurable burn. Perhaps two
months of temporary relief; and then the malignant
growth breaks out again, growing this time like a fire
drenched with gasoline, due to the X-rays’ quicken­
ing of the growth of the cancerous mass. The poor
half-dead patient goes back to the same doctor, think­
ing all healing is locked up within his skull. The
doctor is in a quandary. Operation has failed, X-
rays have failed. But there is radium left. A few
treatments, more high fees. Again a temporary
relief, and then more dreadful pains than ever occur.
All radium-burned patients state, as a rule, that this
is the worst of all the pains, an agony almost un­
bearable. The doctor purringly gives the suffering
patient a box of white tablets, and tells him to take
one every two hours, especially when he has severe
pain; and so he sends the patient home. The rela­
tives go to the doctor: what can the patient do next?
If they still have money, the doctor probably recom­
mends such-and-such a clinic. Another high fee,
from the patient, almost on the brink of the grave
now. This fee is split fifty-fifty with the local doc­
tor, who has shipped the dying patient on. Home
again, with more temporary relief from more X-ray
and radium, which deaden the tissues temporarily
as morphine deadens the nerves. The patient is
still getting worse. By this time, the relatives have
gone to the doctor and demanded an honest ex­
pression from him: they are utterly aghast when he
says, "I am very sorry, but we have done all we can
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 157
for him. Let him remain at home, make him as
comfortable as you can. Give "him the morphine
pills whenever he experiences extreme pain, as I
believe that the end is near. Medical science knows
no cure for cancer.”
This is the typical case history. Baker has publicly
challenged any doctor of the American Medical
Association, or any world-renowned cancer specialist,
from Dr. Joseph Colt Bloodgood of John Hopkins to
Francis Carter Wood of Columbia, or Dr. Cutler of
the Chicago Hospital, or the Mayo Brothes Clinic
daring them to deny that this is absolutely true, and
the normal experience that every cancer patient has
to undergo, at the hands of organized doctordom.
He has publicly challenged any or all of them to a
public debate with him over the Columbia or National
broadcasting chain, with the radio audience to be
the judges, on this subject; the loser to pay the
entire price of the radio chain hookup. He says
that this challenge holds good as long as he is living
and in good health. And, since he has learned to
avoid organized doctordom, that should be for a long
time yet. Baker offers as the subject of the debate:
“Can an allopathic doctor cure any known disease
of the human body by drugs or allopathic methods?
And can they permanently cure cancer by operations,
X-rays, or radium? Do doctors know of a drug
that is a specific for any known disease?” There
have been no acceptances of the challenge, as yet.
The press stories had all said that cancer was in­
curable, and that those engaged in cancer research
throughout the world were still in the dark as to a
cure. In 1929, when Baker’s voice carried to the
world over K-TNT the message that the scourge had
158 D octobs, D yn am iters and Gunmen
been conquered, the American Medical Association
saw that their commercialized quackery was being
exposed, and the pens of the servile spokesmen of
the supposed gods started to write. They already
had their method of throttling all outside news upon
medical subjects. Dr. Morris Fishbein, editor of the
Journal of the American Medical Association, and of
Hygeia, their official organ of propaganda, the
spokesmen and instructors of the eighty-six thousand
members of organized medicine, at an official con­
gress of the association in Chicago, in 1928, explained
to his audience of doctors the association’s method
of medical propaganda. “The newspaper,’’ he said,
“is the greatest medium for the medical education
of the public. Let me turn, then, to some of the
plans which have been devised at the headquarters
of the American Medical Association, for checking
medical news at the source.” He then explained
how the news material was received at the associa­
tion headquarters, and was prepared in form ac­
ceptable to them for dissemination. “These abstracts
are assembled,” he continued, “and then worked up
into running accounts, which are sent to the large
press services, including the Associated Press, the
United Press, the United News, Science Service, the
Consolidated Press, and the International News
Service, to be issued directly to the newspapers. In
addition to supplying newspapers with medical news,
the American Medical Association has arranged to
reply directly to inquiries from individual editors
concerning special stories that may arise in their
vicinity. In this manner, much unauthentic and un­
satisfactory medical news has been held up.” He
proceeded to boast of the association’s handling of
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 15!)
the diphtheria incident in 'Nome, with its resultant
flood of inquiries from prominent papers; and added,
“Opportunity was thus given for the dissemination of
a vast amount of information on the value of diph­
theria anti-toxin, and the use of toxin-antitoxin, and
general knowledge of the way in which scientific
medicine works in the control of epidemics.” The
world has found out since some of the loud quackery
in the incident referred to—in addition to its general
knowledge of the doubtful value, or worse, of such'
antitoxin treatments. The world has learned how
speedy methods of transporting the serum were
offered to the serum company and the medical
authorities, and were refused, to provide the far
slower and far more spectacular dogsled method;
it has learned how the bronze statue to the alleged
dog-hero Balto, in Central Park, New York City, was
erected for publicity purposes of the same sort to a
dog that was not even the hero of the absurd trip.
In his bland manner Fishbein has asked the editors
of all newspapers to censor all health and medical
news coming to their desks. He wishes to control
everything that is printed or spoken over radio re­
garding health. As Dr. Shelton says:
If an autopsy were held on him, it would prob­
ably demonstrate that he has paranoia in one
half of his head, and a resounding vacuum in
the other.
Do you wonder that Norman Baker can only take
such harmful efforts on the part of organized doctor-
dom to throttle, censor, and dominate medical news,
sought to be achieved through such a windy mouth­
piece, with an honest man’s righteous scorn and
indignation?
160 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
The excitement among the organized doctors,
caused by the public announcement of Baker’s can­
cer cure success, caused them quickly to right-about-
face. A series of articles on cancer began to appear,
in a feature called the Daily Health Service by Dr.
Morris Fishbein. Obviously it would not do for the
public to know too definitely that Dr. Fishbein’s
medical practice was limited to sixteen months in a
contagious ward at the Durand Hospital, Chicago;
instead, the caption above his article always reads:
BY DR. MORRIS FISHBEIN
Editor, Journal of the American Medical Association
and of Hygeia, the Health Magazine.
No one but a Jew, says Baker, could be smart enough
to think up and use that fetching subtitle, Hygeia,
the Health Magazine. This is a propaganda mag­
azine sold to the public. As to his general clever­
ness, Baker points out that one of his articles is
headed Doctor Can Control Cancer of Breast if Called
in Time, and that it contains:
Early diagnosis, early surgical removal, and
treatment with X-ray and radium means a def­
inite prolongation of life expectancy by many
years.
The same article warned against “pastes put on
externally, medicines taken internally, or injections”,
“none of which has as yet been proved to have real
value in the control of this condition.” This sounds
like a warning meant to embrace the Baker method;
and, for all that he uses the cautious word “control”
instead of “cure,” it is a long departure from the
old cry, “Cancer is incurable.” It was a clear effort
to take the sting out of the fact that a mere layman
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 161
was offering to the suffering public a method which
actually cured cancer in sixty-five per cent of the
cases treated. The warning at the end of the article
Baker construed correctly as a direct attack upon
his method. External and internal medicines were
used in the Baker treatment, and so was injection.
The Propaganda Department of the A. M. A.—
Baker likes to call them the Amateur Meatcutters’
Association, though a lot of them are certainly pro­
fessional meatcutters by now—then started their
press campaign to discredit and humiliate him, to
ruin his reputation, and to close the Baker Hospital.
These articles did not lack viciousness and did not
show gentlemanliness. They began to broadcast, by
this method, to the world, that Baker was a “cancer
faker,” obtaining money under false pretenses, by
taking fees from cancer patients and guaranteeing
cures; that he was a quack, a charlatan, a calliope
manufacturer attempting to inform the world about
cancer, an art school manager professing knowledge
of the dread scourge which was still a sealed book
even to the medical profession; that he was a broad­
caster misleading the public, the meanest man in the
world (this from an editorial in a Detroit paper),
that he should have his radio license revoked, that
he should be kicked off the air, that he should be
denied the -use of the mails,—the attempt to throttle
him; that he was a drug addict, a drunkard, who
gambled his money away; that he was a woman
chaser, that he was a woman hater— any story would
serve their turn; that he ought to get married and
settle down, and leave the field of medicine strictly
alone. These are only a few of the headlines and
subjects of stories published about Baker. They did
162 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
not call him a murderer: perhaps, knowing their
own records, they were a bit sensitive about charging
anyone with taking human life. At that, in 1932 a
Dr. Aitkens, now of Denver, Colorado, who was put
out of the Baker Hospital, did spread the report that
Baker was a murderer.
Not that this stopped Baker’s success, at first.
More patients came to the hospital constantly; the
crowd on the front porch each morning at eight
o’clock grew larger and larger; the cures increased.
And so, seeing that their campaign of vilification
was failing, they turned to more direct underhanded
methods. On April 4, 1930, a committee of the
Muscatine County Medical Society issued a circular
letter, sent to doctors generally, urging that wide
pressure be brought on the Federal Radio Commis­
sion—obviously either to throttle Baker’s utterances,
or to close his station. Dr. T. F. Beveridge, who
signs first, was connected with Dr. Howe in a clinic.
Dr. Howe was the defendant in an action in which
a Mr. Legler recovered twenty thousand dollars
damages, against Howe, as part owner of the Musca­
tine Clinic, for giving him a life burn, through the
doctor’s ignorance of the way to operate an X-ray
machine. Dr. Cone was a young doctor who failed
to work up a paying practice in Muscatine, and had
to move out. Here is the letter:
Muscatine County Medical Society
L. A. ROYAL, Pres.
G. A. SYWASSINK, Vice-Pres.
E. L. EMERSON, Sec’y-Treas.
Muscatine, Iowa
April 4, 1930.
Dear Doctor :-
Re-Radio Station K-T-N-T- & Baker Institute
Muscatine, Iowa.
This is one of the usual advertising type can-
T h e E m battled D octors B egin to F ight 163
cer cure, and, of course, they will treat anything
else they can get hold of, all with the same
treatment—some form of injected medicine—
and so far as we know, without an adequate
diagnosis being made. However, if this were all >
there was to it, the damage would not be great,
as it affects only the few who come to him for
treatment, and some people must find out for
themselves in the face of the best advice that
can be given them.
Locally, the condition's are known and most
people ignore him, but this radio broadcasting
covers a wide area and his preachment against
health measures and all rational treatment of
disease; his advice to the lay public to ignore the
medical doctor and be treated by Osteos, Chiros,
Nature healers, etc., his tirade and raving
against vaccination for smallpox, and against
surgery, X-ray, and radium in the treatment of
all cancers, goiters, appendicitis, gall stones,
etc., etc., his insulting assertions and accusations
against what he calls the “Giant Medical Trust”,
naming the County, State and American. Medi­
cal Associations, repeatedly calling the A. M.
A. “The Amateur Meat Cutters’ Association”,
all of this you can understand is poisoning the
mind of the public and is certainly a menace
to progressive health measures, and makes it
more difficult to have people apply to qualified
medical men and accept the best available medi­
cal and surgical advice.
This is your problem, even more than ours
locally, because of the general influence over
such a wide area. We believe it is the duty of
every Medical Society in this section of Iowa,
Illinois, Wisconsin and Missouri, to bring it to
the attention of their state society and the Ameri­
can Medical Association, and thru these Associa-
164 Doctors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
tions bring pressure upon the radio commis­
sion at Washington, D. C. Why should a man
be permitted to use abusive and damaging as­
sertions over the radio that, if made in public,
or in printed form, would at once make him
liable to prosecution?
We are enclosing a few excerpts from some of
his radio talks and he continues making long
harangues of a similar or worse character than
the samples here given.
Very truly your,
T. P. Beveridge
L. C. Howe
A. J. Cone
Committee, Muscatine Co.,
Medical Society
The first three lines contains an undeserved slur upon
Baker, in calling his method “the usual advertising
type cancer cure,” and in stating “of course, they
will treat anything else they can get hold of, all
with the same treatment—some form of injected
medicine.” “Most people ignore him locally,” the
letter continues: in spite of the fact that the six
hundred patients, and their friends and relatives,
secured, many of them, lodging places in Muscatine,
and all of them bought some merchandise at least
from the local merchants. There is some jealousy
displayed toward "Osteos, Chiro, Nature healers
etc.” ; while Baker’s sane sound opposition to vac­
cination, surgery, X-ray and radium in smallpox and
cancer cases is called a “tirade” and a “raving.”
'Naturally, this letter was never intended to reach
Baker’s hands. But he has thousands of friends and
followers throughout the world, and these keep him
posted as to such attacks. At times men high in the
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 165
American Medical Association, soul outraged at the
machine’s opposition, passed this information secretly
on to Baker. As the plan developed, it was to con­
demn Baker as a broadcaster, holding that his con­
demnation of operations, X-rays and radium in can­
cer treatments were detrimental to the public health;
and holding the same of his opposition to the squirting
of poisonous pus from calves’ bellies and the like
into people as vaccines and antitoxins, as also harm­
ful to the public health. They could not throttle
him by press alone; apparently they decided they
could not defeat him in the courts; and that left only
the destruction of his advertising mouthpiece, K-TNT,
as a means of silencing his notification to the world
that he had the cure for cancer; so that his hospital,
from lack of patients, would die of inanition.
The medical association proceeded to go on the
chain station hook-ups, and there to denounce pastes,
powders, plasters, internal medicines and all forms
of treatment for cancer except operations, X-rays
and radium; they advised their listeners to be on the
lookout for quacks and charlatans who claimed to
have a cure for cancer. They alone, they said, the
self-appointed exalted czars of everything medical;
would graciously vouchsafe to notify the suffering
world when, in their opinion, cancer was curable:
and, until that felicitous hour of condescension
arrived, men, women and children were to go ahead
and suffer and die from the awful scourge, grateful
to the American Medical Association for saving them
from being cured, and for condemning them to agony
and death.
The county medical association solicited the aid
of the state medical association, and the battle waged
166 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
furtively and out of sight to revoke the license of
K-TNT. On June 20,1930, Vernon D. Blank,— what
a flattering name for a medical practitioner or man­
ager!— Managing Director of the State society, sent
out his circularized blast:
IOWA STATE MEDICAL SOCIETY
Office of the
1122 Bankers Trust Building
DES MOINES
Managing Director
June 20, 1930
Dear Doctor:
This letter should be a personal one because
of its great importance, but because of the emer­
gency and short time at our disposal, this same
letter is being sent to fifteen localities in order
to assist the Muscatine County Society and the
American Medical Association in our joint effort
to get the broadcasting license of the Baker In­
stitute Station KTNT revoked as of July 1.
On the enclosed slip you will find the name of
a Baker Institute patient (or relative). It is
our belief that each of these patients is dead,
or at least has already left the Institute, but we
have reason to believe that there was sufficient
dissatisfaction that it would be easy to comply
with the urgent request which we are making.
Will you please make every effort to secure
an affidavit, properly acknowledged, stating
that the patient was induced to go to Muscatine
by radio talks over Station KTNT. Our instruc­
tions are:
‘‘As we understand, this may be direct or in­
direct; that is—if they heard the Radio talks
over KTNT themselves and so state, so much the,
better; or if their neighbors or other member of
the family heard the talk or promises and they
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 167
were induced in that manner to come for treat­
ment, this is O.K. Make affidavit as explicit as
possible on that point, that they were induced
by radio. The point is that they were induced
to come by his radio broadcasting over KTNT.”
PLEASE SEND THE AFFIDAVIT TO DR.
T. F. BEVERIDGE MUSCATINE, IOWA TO
REACH HIM BY JUNE 25 OR 26.
As you will undoubtedly need to employ a
lawyer and possibly also a notary, any expenses
in connection with securing an affidavit should
be forwarded to the state society for payment.
This request is an official one from various
officers of the state society, but in order to save
time we are endeavoring to get this to you in the
first mail. . Your prompt cooperation will be of
great value in our efforts to stop one of the
worst situations existing in the field of medical
practice at this time.
Sincerely yours,
‘ Vernon D. Blank
Managing Director.
VDB:DCM
Enc.
The purpose is made a little more obvious, now.
Note the wording beginning with the fourth line of
paragraph one:
— in our joint effort to get the broadcasting
license of the Baker Institute Station KTNT re­
voked as of July 1.
The brief fifth paragraph directly links up Dr.
Beveridge of the county association with the plan to
throttle K-TNT. Big-heartedly, in the next para­
graph, the state association bound itself to meet all
expenses in connection with the securing of an affi­
davit, including lawyers’ and notarial fees. And
the Defense
of HEALTH
ANALYSIS OF ONE THOUSAND FIV E HUNDRED APPLICATIONS
FOR THE SAUNDERS CANCER AWARDS
By OBOBOE A SOPER, Ffc. D.. Not York CUj
Managing Director of Tb» Americas £odety for the Control of Coneer
(B lW a n qoeted vtrtalUa tfce c M > ra r tr > l> la of Up oriMal report mod* M tbo A n M <
R « M ; for Uo C isln l of C **o * im r t lu Wo UM l
CN pilu for • meerr rurt > lk t woo oflcrrO la
***T bjr WlUfaus La S.OTdoi of *• « York )
"I The offer of lerge prizes In money for
the discovery of effective methods of prevent*
fug and curing cancer brought 1,600 letters of
application within 4 months from writers in 24
'ountries
“2. The systematic attention given to all of
'hew applications has made it possible to divide
ind sub-divide the propositions into various
*rovps and classes There were 83 persons
vho presented preventive procedures, and 397
»•ho offered cures There were 207 cures of-
'ereS for external,-39-for Internal and 167 fur
cancer m all locations. Of the total number of
applications, 665 were illiterate, 5C5 were in­
definite, and 291 were mercenary.
“3 The object of the donor of the awards,'
which was to stimulate inventive genius, has
not plus far beeo accomplished Instead, there
have been brought to light many empiric rem­
edies, the existence of a large number of whioh
had been known to the scientific world for
years, but had been given up by educated med­
ical men as ineffective or unnecessarily painful
and mutilating. Many secret remedies have
beei) offered for sale.
“
Tb* promoter* of an extensively ad­
vertised 'serum* not only proposed to
I eater the contest, but laid down the terms
and conditions under which the investiga­
tion of their claims most be made
"4 The procedures of known quacks and
charlatans have formed but a small proportion
of the applications The number of physicians*
and research workers of standing who have
Indicated a desire to be considered as applicants
for the awards has been insignificant.
“5 Preventive measures have been notably
few, nearly all relating« to diet Bnd hygiene.
“6 All applications received up to February
1, 1928 were considered, at which time the of­
fer of Ihp prizes expned.
**7. The time and labor spent in giving
serious attention to this attempt to find a
solution of the eancer problem through the of­
fer of a monetary reward are being justified by
the demonstration of the futility of this method
and in putting so many empiric and ineffectual
remedies officially on record
“8 Although money awards have been of­
fered before for the discovery of a method of
preventing or cunng cancer, it is believed that
this is the first time that so systematic a study
has been made of the applications.”
•The explanation of this is found Id the following
word* **A devotion to science u d medicine which
f
a
t
s almost without exception characterized these
laborers for humanity forbids the ¡«tenUac or com­
mercial exploitation of srieoUfc medical discoveries
which c&a cure the iUa of mankind The discoverer*
of Insulin could have made millions hAd they kept it
secret, but instead of preying upon the diabetics of
the world, they gave this knowledge to mankind with­
out stmt or condition or profit to thf-eaack-e*
Muscatine County Medical
Society
MUSCATINE
Dr. T. F. Beveridge
Dr. Emma Brauawartb
Dr. A L. Bryan
Dr. A. B Clapp
Dr. A J Cone
Dr W. W. Daut
Dr E U Emerson
Dr B. E Eversmeyer
Dr S D. Folsom
Dr E B. Fulham
Dr L. C. Howe
Dr. J I - Klein
Dr G D Lezotte
Dr. W S. Norton
Dr. A J Oliver
Dr C P Phillips
Dr G A SywAssnk
Copy of advertisement placed in local
work.
Dr E K. Tyler
Dr A J Weaver
Dr T I Wigwi
CONESVILLB
Dr H H. English
WILTON JUNCTION
Dr A R. Leith
Dr C 0 Leith
Dr H. P. Ma«on
Dr L C Winter
NICHOLo
Di V 0 Muench
WEST LIBERTY
Dr L A Rovai
d aily to d iscre d it B a k e r’s
T h e E mbattled D octors B egin to F ight 169
paragraph one links together in the malodorous un-
American attempt (1) the American Medical Associa­
tion, (2) the Iowa State Medical Society, and (3)
the Muscatine County Medical Association, in the
effort to revoke its license and entirely destroy
K-TNT. Baker has sued the state medical society
for a hundred thousand dollars for this thus admit­
ted plot, and the case is now pending in the courts
of Iowa. Would not the average lawyer brand this
as conspiracy?
The filing of this suit rather drove the medical
opposition into cover. They have been slyer in their
activities since. They did not cease their fight; to
the contrary, it became more vicious. By June of
1930 the Baker Hospital was still packed to the doors.
All available rooming houses and hotels were filled
with patients from all over the United States and
Canada. On some days, as many as three or four
patients left the hospital, cured. When these re­
turned, to their home cities, they were a walking
living eloquent education to the editors who had
been labelling Baker a cancer faker.
And ever the fight grew more direct and vicious.
CHAPTER IX
GUNMEN, DYNAMITERS AND DOCTORS
For some time, Baker had been receiving an in­
creasing flood of unsigned letters threatening his
life. After the first dozen came in, he secured per­
mission to carry a revolver. He paid no further
attention to the threats; but his friends were worried.
They advised him to change his habits, so that he
would not be on the streets or in his automobile late
at night; you could never tell when some crank, with
a fancied grievance or one directed against mankind
in general, might be egged on to some act of direct
violence.
Baker’s habits were well known in the community;
they were almost as methodical as a clock. Almost
every night he would go down to the K-TNT Cafe
before retiring; not once in a month would he be in
bed before midnight. Usually he sat in the restau­
rant from midnight until one or two o’clock in the
morning, reading the daily papers, re-reading im­
portant correspondence, and doing his real thinking
on business matters; for at this time alone could he
be sure of being undisturbed. Norman Baker,
moreover, was born along the great river, and is for­
ever its son. He never cared much for baseball or
football, or even for politics, that more sadistic
variety of football, in which the public is kicked
around so continually by the astute players. In­
stead, his delight was to own a boat, a cruiser, launch,
or speed boat, which he kept tied at night in the river
that flowed forever past the great radio station and
170
Gunm en, Dynamiters and Doctors 171
the great hospita.1 that were his living enduring man­
serving monuments. When he would leave the cafe
at 1-ast each night, generally far after midnight, he
would stroll— and everyone in the community knew
this—down to the river bank, to make sure that the
boat was well hawsered, in case of a storm. Then
he would walk meditatively to bed, either in his
beautiful apartment on the second story of station
K-TNT, in his private room at the Baker Hospital,
or sleep on the davenport in his office. If he did
not feel over-fatigued, it would be the station; if he
had worked too late, the hospital or office. A
few times each month he would work so late in his
office on important matters, that he would forget
the time entirely. He would start out, intending a
bite at the cafe, and assuming that it was perhaps
about two o’clock: and then he would discover that
it was daylight. For twenty-six years, down to the
writing of this book, he has never had one day’s
vacation, free from all business cares. Not that this
is to be praised as natural living; for he works under
tremendous energy, and the flagging body and nerves
are entitled to their long relaxation. . But for
twenty-six years he has been the general in charge
of an army fighting for its very life against an im­
mense opposition; not until he has routed them will
his driving soul permit him to relax.
His main energies, that hectic spring and summer
of 1930, went to the fight with the angry hornets of
the American Medical Association. He still had his
hospital, he still had his magazine TNT, he still had
his radio station; but he brooded over one fact about
it continually. And that was the fact that, since
1927, the Federal Radio Commission had deprived
172 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Baker of his evening hours on the air. Up to that
time, K-TNT had been on 1170 kilocycles, with full
time day and evening. But during the 1927 alloca­
tion of wave lengths, arbitrarily the commission had
taken his channel from him, and given it to Dr. Leon
Levy, of station WCAU, in Philadelphia. It may
have been just a coincidence that Levy had a relative
who was president of the Columbia Broadcasting
Company, that powerful group of chain stations, who
have always received from the commission the best
channels, with unlimited time and the highest power.
Baker did not think that it was a coincidence.
Neither do I.
Baker did not take this discriminating decision
lying down. He asked for another hearing from the
Federal Radio Commission, and was granted it. He
managed to get into the hearing a full statement of
what the American Telephone and Telegraph Com­
pany had done in connection with the opening of his
station, and that was something. But that was all he
could get directly. Except that, when Baker spoke to
one of the commissioners, Mr. Caldwell of New York
state, about changing the kilocycle channel for K-
TNT, to eliminate interference, Caldwell asked Baker
to scheme out a channel, by which the commission
could change the present channel to the advantage
of the other stations and K-TNT. Wouldn’t Baker
bring his scheme in in the morning?
Caldwell, as Baker and many knew, when he was
appointed to the commission, was the editor of an
electrical magazine, published by the electrical trust
group. The records of the Senatorial committee
investigating his record, with regard to confirmation
of his appointment, showed that, in addition to the
Gunmen, Dynamiters and Doctors 173
$10,000 a year he received as radio commissioner, he
drew a salary from the Wall Street group that owned
the magazine, which was said to be $17,000 or some
similar figure. Baker at first fought against the
man’s confirmation; his own connection with at
least one Senator was so strong, that he could have
placed Caldwell’s confirmation in the balance, or
possibly defeated it. Everything indicated that
Caldwell would be fair to K-TNT, and Baker ceased
his opposition, to his subsequent sorrow. Caldwell
was confirmed by one vote.
All that evening, after Caldwell’s request, Baker
and his secretary worked at the Willard Hotel, pre­
paring suitable changes in allocation to recommend
to the commission. He had had a Pullman reserva­
tion for his return trip home; he cancelled it, to
accommodate the commissioner. Early the next morn­
ing, he took the plans around to Caldwell’s office.
His secretary said distantly that the commissioner
had gone to New York City. Whether the secretary
misrepresented the facts, or whether Caldwell had
deliberately evaded Baker in this fashion, Baker has
never known.
The only thing left for Baker to do was to carry
the plans to the office of Sam Pickard, commissioner
for the fourth zone, in which Muscatine lay. “If
you’ll look over them, Mr. Pickard, you’ll find that
each one of the dozen and more plans submitted
would not only better the reception and cause less
interference for K-TNT, but would lessen the inter­
ference of the many other stations on the same
channel.” Pickard turned abruptly to Baker: “Mr.
Baker, it’s not your business to tell us where we shall
put K-TNT. It’s the duty of the commission to work
174 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
that out.” Baker’s blood ran hot: after he had
cancelled his reservations, undergone a day’s extra
expenses in Washington, sat up half the night and
more preparing the plans, at Caldwell’s request, to
receive this curt dismissal! Baker spoke swiftly.
“Mr. Pickard, I cancelled my reservation, stayed over
an extra day to work out these plans,— and all be­
cause Mr. Caldwell requested it. In his absence,
this morning, I brought them down to you. You now
tell me that it’s none of my business, and I want to
tell you my idea of you: you’re a damned coward!”
Pickard’s stenographer, a young lady at his right,
rose abruptly and left the room, realizing that a
torrid argument was coming. Sam Pickard clenched
his fist, and pounded on his desk: “I’m not a coward.
I faced the bullets Over There.” Baker was right
back at him: “Yes, you faced the bullets Over There,
like so many more; but you are too cowardly to face
the A. T. & T. bullets on Wall Street. Furthermore,
Mr. Pickard, I know what you think of me, and I
know what you are trying to do; and I wish to let
you know that my opinion of you isn’t one whit higher.
I’m going to fight to my dying day in an effort to
inform the citizens of this country that you are in­
competent, a tool of Wall Street, and afraid to admit
your name is Sam Pickard unless the A. T. & T. per­
mits you to do so.” It had taken Baker a long time
to gather his facts about the commissioner; he could
not resist blurting out a hint of it now. “I don’t give
a damn what you do regarding K-TNT, whether it
closes or whether it operates. I’m leaving this
office an enemy of yours, as you are of mine, knowing
that, as a public official, paid by taxpayers’ money,
you are a traitor to their cause. The quicker both
Gunm en, D ynamiters and Doctors 175
of us understand this, the better it will be for both
of us. This is the last time I come to you as my
zone commissioner, for any information or help re­
garding K-TNT.”
Pickard’s face was now flushed. “Let me see
yo.ur plans. I’ll look them over carefully, and advise
you.’’ He took them, opened the drawer of his desk,
placed them within. Baker took up his hat, and left.
He heard nothing more concerning them. But, a
little while later, in that same 1927, the Federal Radio
Commission called a conference to cover Iowa mat­
ters, naming Des Moines as the location of the meet­
ing. All the broadcasters of the State were invited
to attend; Judge Sykes and Sam Pickard, of the
commission, would be on hand. The purpose of the
conference was to try and correct the radio quota for
the State, which the commission claimed was exces­
sive. Baker was convinced that the real purpose was
to begin an effort to get rid of all the independent
stations, and clear the road for complete monopoly
of the air by the radio trust; and thus enable it to
drive out, over the whole country, all independent
stations, which would force radio listeners to listen
to the chain programs, or have to shut off their radios
and retire.
Baker attended the meeting. He was the first
man in the convention hall. The next man to appear
was a Mr. Jameson, who introduced himself as an
attorney from Washington, D. C., who specialized
in radio matters before the commission; he said he
would be glad to do any work of that sort for Baker.
Apparently he was there to solicit the Iowa broad­
casters for such business. Baker told more pre­
cisely what station he represented; at once the at-
176 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
torney began talking about correcting the quota.
Hotly Baker argued for the independents, saying he
had come to the conference to urge them to sit tight
and resist all attacks of Sykes and Pickard, who
were not in love with the independents, but were
closely affiliated with the A. T. & T. stations. This
seemed to pain Jameson: “You shouldn’t take that
attitude, Mr. Baker.” Baker’s eyes flashed: “I don’t
need anyone to tell me how to act in a radio con­
ference. It’s plain to see that you’re on the other
side of the fence, and I’m doubly uninterested in
your suggestions.”
Soon the broadcasters had assembled, and the two
commissioners appeared. Plenty of hand-shaking,
back-slapping, a general effusive air of love for Iowa
and its independents: all just one happy family. The
majority of the smaller broadcasters seemed panicky,
and hardly dared mention the names of the two
commissioners present. Up to Baker came Frank
Elliott, part owner and manager of WOC at Daven­
port. He told the owner of K-TNT that Sam Pickard
wanted to see him; that he had sent word that the
problems of K-TNT could easily be fixed up, if Baker
was willing to drop his license for KPNP, a one
hundred watt station license he held; and in that
case K-TNT could get the 5000 watt increased power
Baker desired for it. Since that memorable argu­
ment in Washington, Baker had not seen Pickard,
much less spoken to him. He determined to make
Pickard come to him, this time; and, during the
conference, to carry out his original intention, of
urging the Iowa broadcasters to sit tight and not
yield an inch, since their rights could not be legally
taken from them, or their stations closed.
Gunm en, D ynam iters' and Doctors 177
Baker sauntered around the hall, exchanging
greetings right and left. Finally he came near to
where Pickard was standing. The commissioner
moved up and greeted Baker with alacrity. “Do
you know, Baker, I believe I can arrange matters to
suit you, regarding K-TNT. Give you an increase
to five thousand watts, and arrange a channel with
good hours, if you’ll only help us in this Iowa quota
matter. You have a license for K-PNP, a small
hundred watt station you haven’t constructed yet;
it would really be no service to you, only an added
expense. Your one fine station ought to serve you
nicely. If you’ll let us cancel your license for K-PNP,
I’ll increase your power to 5000 watts and fix things
up for K-TNT.” Baker smiled guardedly. “That’s
fine, Sam. You’ll always find me ready to play ball,
when the game is square. Cancel K-PNP, give me
five thousand watts with a good channel and good
evening hours for broadcasting over K-TNT, and
everthing will be satisfactory.”
The conference was seated, and the steam roller
went right into action. The two commissioners
presided, the roll was called, the talks started in the
effort to kill off the independents. There was very
little argument from the smaller station managers,
who didn’t seem to know what it was all about. The
morning session ended; there was a noonday banquet.
Baker ducked away from this, and left for home on
the first train, relying on the commissioner’s promise
to him. When the new allocations were announced,
in November of 1927, for all stations in the United
States, Pickard had kept part of his promise: K-TNT
did have the power increase to five thousand watts.
But it was left on the same 1170 kilocycle channel,
178 ' D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
and the cream of the channel was taken away and
given to Dr. Leon Levy, of station WGAU at Phila­
delphia. Baker was required to kick his station off
the air at sundown, which meant no night programs
after seven-thirty, the latest summer,sunset; though
he was of course allowed to open his programs at
sunrise.
In other words, K-TNT was altered into a daytime
station. Baker’s voice was throttled to reach day­
time listeners only. K-TNT was also permitted to
go on the air when Dr. Levy’s station went off at
night. Baker argued with the commissioner that
this was unfair, especially because the commission
ruled that the time of western sunsets was to regu­
late the channels: and this would give Baker an hour
more for his evening program. To hell with the
rules must have been Pickard’s contention; whatever
dictated his course, he instructed Baker to be off the
air at sunset, eastern time.
Records showed that Mr. Levy’s station was sign­
ing off each night at midnight, Philadelphia time,
and had done so for months past. Baker, then,
could start broadcasting again at eleven P. M.,
Muscatine time. Baker started putting on his pro­
grams every night at eleven P. M., and giving cancer
talks and excellent programs of entertainment. This
was his only opportunity to reach evening listeners
at a distance, and get his cancer and health talks to
the public. Mr. Levy was somehow inspired to ex­
tend his programs to one A. M., which no doubt was
eminently satisfactory to the American Medical
Association and the chain stations of the radio trust.
Baker wrote to Mr. Levy, protesting against the
taking of this extra hour from him. Levy
Gunm en, Dynamiters and Doctors 179
replied to the effect that he didn’t give a damn if
K-TNT was blown clear off the channel. He filled
in his extra hour with “police reports,” hardly a vital
subject for such an hour. Baker could only con­
clude that Levy did this, to answer the dictates
of the medical combine. At the present time, Mr.
Levy broadcasts full time on 1170 kilocycles, with
fifty thousand watts of power, and is one of the key
stations of the Columbia Broadcasting Company, of
which one of his close relatives is president, and
which is owned by Wall Street.
A few months after this unfair new allocation,
depriving K-TNT of its most valuable rights in the
interest of a subsidiary of the Columbia Broadcasting
Company, Pickard resigned from the Federal Radio
Commission, and accepted a high position as an
.executive of the Columbia Broadcasting Company,
where he is still employed. He had served them
well, as a radio commissioner fattening at the public
till; he now has them as his direct paymaster.
And now we are back in that tense late spring of
1930. The best Baker could do was to put his can­
cer and health talks, and his splendid program, on
for the hour between midnight at Muscatine and
one o’clock A. M.; even though many radio listeners
had already retired. Baker even had a microphone
installed in his office in the hospital. On the night
of April 30, 1930, precisely at midnight, he began
talking, as usual, from the microphone in his office.
Recently he and his helpers had seen an increasing
number of prowlers and snoopers around the hospi­
tal and the radio station. The hospital was open
each day for visitors, and Baker had spotted at least
half a dozen^ spies, going in as supposed visitors.
180 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
This and similar matters caused Baker and his assist­
ants to be especially careful, and on the lookout for
anything that might happen unexpectedly. His gun
was never out of reach, day or night. Others of his
executives had received permission to carry weapons.
K-TNT, assailed by the medical trust, had been
forced to turn itself into an armed fortress.
On this early morning, as was his custom, his gun
lay in plain sight on his desk. He had not reasoned
the matter out; and he disliked a gun: but he had
an intuition that it ought to be there. And Baker is
wise enough to follow his intuitions. The K-TNT
Cafe kept open all night, as Baker knew. Suddenly,
just before he closed his broadcast at one'o’clock,
the phone at his elbow jangled. “Hello—Baker’s
office.” “It’s me, calling from the cafe. Mr.
Baker’d better not come down; there are three
tough-looking guys parked across the street, in front
of the American Savings Bank, in an old model Buick,
with a foreign license plate. We’re worried about
him.”
Dr. Charles Loeffler of Chicago, Baker’s visitor at
the time, was in the office, as was Bellows, the super­
intendent; the superintendent of nurses, Miss Amiss;
the hospital secretary; and Mr. Hoxsey. One of the
group received the message, and repeated it to Baker,
when he went off the air at five minutes after one.
Baker was told about the message; he and the rest
began to laugh and joke about it.
The hospital building was about sixty foot front­
age and a hundred ten feet long. It was located in
the middle of a large lot, with twenty foot lawn on
either side, and in front. Next door was a small resi­
dence, and its owner had a small dog: a small harm-
Gunm en, D ynamiters and Doctors 181
less creature.that had never been heard to bark an
alarm before this night. They were all in the owner’s
office, one of the front corner rooms on the second ,
floor; his sleeping room, its door open, was just
beyond. The group arose to get ready to go down
to the cafe, regardless of the warning, when suddenly,
from the house next door, the little dog began to bark
violently. The sound sliced the brittle stillness; it
was so clear, so definite, that they could picture the
whole scene: some intruder was outside thé building,
for you could hear the dog running toward someone,
barking fiercely, then running back; and again back
at the intruder. It was like a spoken warning.
Not a word was spoken in the group. Everyone
sensed something was wrong. Someone, with swift
forethought, turned out the lights. Both rooms were
now in darkness.
At once the shooting commenced. They saw
three men skulking on the lawn outside. The 38
automatic was emptied at them. In an agitated
voice, one in the group called out that he saw two
of the prowlers helping the third, his arm over their
shoulders, in a limping rush toward an auto waiting
in the alley behind the hospital. The cafe cashier
had been correct: the three marauders had been
waiting for Baker, and had tired of the wait and come
to the hospital to get him.
The shooting awakened all the patients in the
hospital. Wild excitement dominated the place.
Some insisted on going home at once, and could
hardly be pacified. One hysterical patient started
the wild rumor that, if the prowlers could not get
Baker, they would return and blow up the hospital.
182 D octors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
At once Baker had guards posted around the whole
building, to pacify the patients.
A crowd gathered swiftly, including belated
policemen. A blood stain on the grass was dis­
covered; the shots had winged their man. Mr. White,
night tender at the bridge ticket office, within a
hundred feet of the hospital, said that he saw the
auto come toward the bridge without lights, and
that he had been about to raise the gates, thinking
the party wanted to cross the bridge, when the car
turned into the alley leading behind the hospital.
Baker told the police at once to notify the keepers of
all bridges crossing the Mississippi at Muscatine,
Davenport, and Clinton, to be on the lookout for the
fugitives.
And then the tired excited group went on to the
cafe for a tardy snack, and so to bed. It was almost
three o’clock. The hospital is on one of the main
streets, in the center of the city; the radio station was
eight blocks up the same street, on top of the highest
hill in the place. Midway between the two was the
K-TNT Oil Station, also open all night, and the only
business place in that section of the city that was
open all night. It was the only place in the neighbor­
hood where a telephone was available all night.
Baker had been in bed only a few minutes, when
the phone bell jingled again. “Hello—Baker speak­
ing.” “Somebody’s just thrown two bombs at the
radio station.” It was not the Oil Station speaking.
Baker dressed hurriedly, and started for K-TNT. He
stopped at the Oil Station, to reprimand the night
attendant for not advising him sooner. There was
a night watchman at the radio station, too; and Baker
was most afraid, that someone had tried to damage
Gunm en, Dynamiters and-Doctors 183
the transmitter, to prevent his medical talks. He
soon ascertained that the oil station attendant was
not to blame; his isolated station, midway of a large
vacant site of two city blocks, poorly lighted in the
rear, had been shut off from the world, by some­
one’s cutting the telephone wires that entered it from
the rear, to prevent any calls for the police.
Mr. Zeug, night watchman at the radio station, had
shot at the bombers, as they ran through an adjoin­
ing vacant lot. The fruit trees and berry vines
obstructed his sight and aim, and, as far as could be
found out, he had failed to injure any of them.
The Associated Press story was carried, under the
following headlines, in the Chicago Daily Tribune
of April 12, 1930:
HUNT 3 GUNMEN ROUTED BY RADIO
“QUACK” DOCTOR
Gun Fight Climaxes Fight with Dr. Fishbein
Muscatine, la., April 11— (AP)—Police at aH
towns in Iowa and Illinois where bridges span
the Mississippi river were on the lookout for
three men who fired upon Norman Baker, the
operator of Radio Station KTNT, a few minutes
after he had signed off at 1 o’clock this morning.
Baker’s report of the attack to police
was verified by C. E. White, keeper of a toll
bridge, who saw the shooting from his shanty,
less than a hundred feet away.
White saw flashes of fire, as of a gun explod­
ing, and heard loud reports an instant later at
the back of the building. Baker and Harry
Hoxsey of Girard, 111., were having a conference
184 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
in an upstairs room there from which Baker had
been broadcasting.
. One Assailant Wounded
Hoxsey told police he jumped to the window
on hearing the shots and fired at the three men
whom he could dimly see on the ground below,
wounding one of them. The other two dragged
the wounded man around the building, sup­
posedly to a waiting automobile, and made their
getaway.
Bob Hunter, first officer to arrive on the scene,
found blood on the grass where the attacker
had fallen.
Both Hoxsey and Baker have legal permits to
carry guns. Baker is head of the Baker Insti­
tute, a cancer hospital on the water front.
Ten minutes before the encounter Baker had
called the local police station to report the
presence of three suspicious-looking strangers
about the hospital and asked police to investi­
gate.
Dr. Fishbein Denounced
After the shooting Baker telephoned the
Associated Press and told of the incident. He
later sent a long telegram attacking Dr. Morris
Fishbein, editor of the Journal of the Ameri­
can Medical Association, for the latter’s current
editorial condemning the KTNT station as a
quack institution.
Baker did not charge the American Medical
Association with making the attack on his sta­
tion, but said that he felt that the editorial might
have aroused feeling against him.
This important and sensational story was tucked
away inconspicuously' on the financial page, in spite
of its first page importance; which no doubt helped
to focus the light of public interest away from the
Gunm en, D ynamiters and Doctors 187
Fishbein led the attack, or had anything to do with
the firing on the radio station? What did the news­
paper headline writers know, that insidiously in­
spired this similar wording in the two unfair and
antagonistic accounts?
Needless to say, Baker' saw like lightning the
peculiar connection the papers hinted between Dr.
Fishbein and the mysterious and dastardly attack.
I do not imagine that he had ever visualized any
doctor in the A. M. A., much less Dr. Fishbein, as a
potential night marauder, would-be murderer, and
dynamiter; the headlines made his mind leap to a
wondering query as to whether or not there was any
connection at all. He sent out three investigators to
ascertain the precise whereabouts of the mysterious
Dr. Fishbein, the “attacker”, on the night in question.
All reported that he had been in the Presbyterian
Hospital on the Tuesday following, April 15th, and
that he had been there since April9th. We must
of course presume that the doctor’s ailment was a
genuine one. Genuine or not, it furnished an
admirable alibi.
Mrs. L. C. W. Little, secretary or manager of the
Medical Liberty League, of Chicago, who published
the magazine The Avalanche, an energetic worker
for medical freedom, and against the crime of vac­
cination—let us use her own expressive phrase—
came to Muscatine, and investigated all details of
the peculiar attempt at murder and bombing, timed
so accurately— at least, on the surface—to explode
with the editorial attack on Baker in the Journal of
the American Medical Association, coincidence
though this may have been. Her findings, in the
May, 1930 Avalanche, republished in the July, 1930,
188 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
TNT, bore out every detail of the story that Baker
and the other witnesses had told to the police. She
noted at once that the same issue of the A. M. A.
Journal contained an editorial spanking of Liberty,
the national magazine owned by the Chicago Tribune
interests, for printing a contribution criticizing the
medical profession, and incidentally finding fault
with Liberty’s containing advertisements of certain
proprietary medicines.
Her investigation added nothing to the account,
except a threat to the attendant at the oil station
that the men were going to blow up the entire estab­
lishment, and he had better get the hell out of there
and find another job; and the fact that the two
bombs thrown at the transmitter room, with the
apparent intention of destroying the transmitter, had
done no serious damage except to throw sand in the
night guard’s eyes, so that he could not shoot
straight.
The newspapers throughout the country, except
for a few small and insignificant ones, either buried
the report of the outrage entirely, or gave it a bare
mention. The police department apparently went
into a profound slumber on the whole thing: this
seemed to be not the kind of attack that they were
instructed to deal with. Baker did secure an in­
vestigator from the Iowa State Department, but
nothing resulted from this. He was able to talk to
Harold Wilson, county attorney, in whose hands
rested the responsibility of all connected with this
outrage; but he could secure no access to the State
investigator, who seemed to be working hand-in­
glove with Wilson. Nor did Sheriff Nesper of Musca­
tine County seem to take much interest in the matter.
Gunmen, Dynamiters and Doctors 189
The whole government organization connected with
the investigation of such a crime seemed to be para­
lyzed by some strange inactivity, as if word had
seeped down from above that they were to go to
sleep on the case. And above, too often in Ameri­
can political matters, especially where the Ameri­
can Medical Association and its subsidiaries are on one
side of a contest (read those newspaper headlines
again, with their virulent editorializing, if you please)
means organized doctordom, and its means of politi­
cal control.
Hitherto, Baker had considered Wilson his friend,
and had boosted his candidacies on various occasions.
The thing reminded Baker how much Muscatine,
and indeed every town, needed an independent
paper with an independent-souled editor, who would
launch constant campaigns against the constant
flood of grafters and embezzlers, and secure grand
jury indictments of the swine at the public feed
trough. Baker kept after Wilson; and, after long
inactivity, met with no answer but the statement
that there had been nothing "tangible," with an
inflection hinting his suspicion that the matter might
well have been a frame-up on Baker’s part. Baker
demanded the evidence found by the State investi­
gator, the Sheriff, and all others who had been
working on the case. He told Wilson forthrightly
that he was a coward. Wilson didn’t like this. “I
mean it," said Baker. "Any man who will lie down,
in an affair as outrageously serious as this, is a
damned coward.” He has never retracted, or found
reason to.
The sheriff and the county supervisors refused to
give the hospital protection with guardsmen, and
190 D octors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Baker secured permission, to place a machine gun at the
radio station, and one at the hospital. An armed fortress,
told by the protecting powers of the state that he must pro­
tect himself. He had four night watchmen at the hospital,
four at the radio station, who were kept on duty for about
three months. The newspapers blurred over the whole
affair, angered at Baker because he had exposed their
cowardice in not daring to print an article on aluminum
poisoning, for fear of the withdrawal of aluminum adver­
tisements.
The snooping by the medical overlords continued. The
hospital nurses boarded in private homes throughout the
city. Two or three of the nurses boarded at the home of
this county attorney, Harold Wilson, on East Fifth Street,
Muscatine, the ownership being in his mother or wife. These
nurses returned home one day, to find their suitcases and
other belongings had been ransacked, and all left in dis­
order. When brought to Wilson’s attention, he gave no
satisfaction, and Baker ordered the nurses to board else­
where. Wilson made no effort to place the matter properly
before the police authorities, and find out who thus entered
his home illegally and secretly, without,his knowledge—for
we must assume that it was without his knowledge. Reports
say it was a medical investigator. Needless to say, Baker
has not boosted Wilson for public office since; he would not
boost him even for dog-catcher, now. Especially since vivi­
secting surgeons have sueh an affinity for dogs, rats and the
like.
Nothing else was ever heard regarding the gunmen or the
dynamiters. The whole matter was blanketed in dead silence
thereafter.
But naturally it made Norman Baker regarded his en­
emies of the organized medical world in a strangely differ­
ent light. Somebody had shot at him, somebody had tried to
dynamite his place: the newspapers, invariably servile to­
ward organized doctordom, had described it as “ Gun Fight
Climaxes Fight with Dr.. Fishbein’’, and ‘‘Try to Shoot up
KTNT; Attack by Dr. Morris Fishbein. ’’ It was high time
he looked into this organized opposition, and thoroughly.
He found out plenty.
Gun m en , Dynamiters and Doctors
DR. MORRIS FISHBEIN
191
DR. M ORRIS FISH BE IN , whose likeness is shown above,
is known as the brains of the American Medical Association.
It is hinted that his diplomacy may be questioned, as not
having served1the proper time in medical college for same. It is
said his medical experience consists of about sixteen months in
the Durant Hospital in Chicago, in a contageous ward,' What­
ever his medical experience has been, he fell into an excellent po­
sition as editor-in-chief of the nearly ninety thousand doctors
whom he controls by his writings in the Journal of the American
Medical Association.
Dr. Fishbein has. become noted for his stereotyped talks that
he gives in various places when he can secure an opportunity to
tour the country and talk before “noon day clubs.” Those who
have heard him once, say it is like a circus, “hear him once, you
have heard it all.”
He delights in speaking in a discriminatory manner of all
other classes of doctors. His abuse has driven many from! the
allopathic methods to the drugless doctors. He has been dis­
credited in his talks by those who have been cured by drugless
methods and who later hear him denounce such treatments.
It is rumored that there is much dissention among the more
honorable doctors of the A. M. A. ranks who desire his removal.
CHAPTER X
THE MEDICAL OCTOPUS
Baker went into his study of the American Medical
Association with some naive belief lingering that it
was a group of healers of the sick, devoted to re­
lieving the ills of suffering humanity, charitable,
worthy of support and assistance. There might be
some, especially at the head of the group, who were
selfish and small-motived: this could not be true of
the majority of them.
It might be limited to the few at the top of the
A. M. A., plus the collection of blithering myopia
victims that were the curse of Muscatine County,
Iowa. On the whole, take them by and large, they
must be a decent admirable group of men. When you
said “ doctor,” you didn’t use the same tone of voice
you used in saying “ murderer,” “ dynamiter,”
“ thug,” “ assassin,” “ conspirator,” “ quack,”
“ faker,” “-scoundrel.” There’s not so much dif­
ference in Baker’s voice now. He has found things
out.
This story is a horrible one. But when we recall
that many doctors in good standing specialize in the
murdering of unborn babies, we need not be surprised
at anything we find from this group, whose psycho­
logical makeup is so well understood by the leading
modern psychologists, when they say that the phy­
sician is the sublimated “Peeping Tom,” and the sur­
geon the sublimated sadist, or blood-letting killer.
Grant that the professional beside-manner of the
doctor or surgeon requires him to simulate the same
192
The
American
Medical-
Association
functions
by
its
national
office
in
Chicago,
organiz­
ing
State
Societies,
the
State
Societies
organize
County
-Societies,
the
County
Societies
control
all
city
and
county
health
matters.
The
tenaci
es
of
this
Octopus
dominate
every
citizen.
194 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
hypocritical regret that the urbane popular under­
taker, has: this can not alter his soul’s hideous face.
The doctor starves, if people stay well: is he to re­
joice at what makes him starve ? Or is he to rejoice
at what alone brings him a livelihood, their illness?
If he cures them easily and promptly, he throws him­
self back to starvation) again: are we to expect doc­
tors to struggle nobly to achieve this group slow
suicide?
Perhaps we would gain if we gave them a different
job: no money unless a cure. Or the Chinese method,
doctor’s fees as long as the patients stay well, and
the fees automatically stop when illness comes. There
must be some less stupid way of paying the “ Peeping
Toms” and the butchers, so that they at least will'
get a bonus out of a cure, instead of regarding a cure
as a gouge out of their incomes.
There are individual physicians Baker counts as
his friends; and they are worth it. The old family
physician is disappearing; the modem practitioner
tends more and more to being a mere soulless com-
mercializer of man’s sufferings. Not that this is
worldwide. In Mexico, for instance, the doctors are
more free lances, independent of soul, and progres­
sive: most of them would be badged “ rebels”,by the
A. M. A. group, for they will stand dictation from no
man as to what medicine or treatments they will use,
and as to whether they will even join a medical as­
sociation or not.
Let us dig somewhat into the past, to form a back­
drop against which the modern medical group may
crawl. Archaic medicine consisted in the archaic
religions in every land. Healing was a divine func­
tion; thus nobly is medicine sprung. Slowly science
T h e Medical Octopus 195
fumbled upright; and there were always independent
doctors who followed the old tried superstitions or
home remedies, and always those who stumbled
bravely ahead with stumbling science.
About 1846, in this country, the division between two
schools of medical thought became clear. One group was
the eclectic doctors, with their affirmative foundation: “The
investigation and practice of medicine should be entirely
free and untrammelled; and no central body, no associa­
tion, combination, or conspiracy should have the power to
prescribe a certain standard of faith or medical creed, which
should be received and forced upon every member of the
profession by threats of professional disgrace and ruin. We
recognize that every enlightened, educated and honest phy­
sician should stand upon the same platform of professional
respectability and should enjoy the same rights, no matter
what doctrines he may advocate in medicine, or what sys­
tem of practice he may deem it his duty to adopt.” But
the insane desire to dominate possessed the other group, the
would-be-autocrats in the field.
The group of would-be dominators of the medical field
resolved to boycott and punish those who would not follow
at the waving of their scalpel baton. A conference was ac­
cordingly held in New York City in 1846, and at this the
American Medical Association was born. From the start
it was an unruly, dominating, selfish, ignorant baby, which
in later years grew up to be a heartless commercializer of
human agony, with a record which may conceivably entitle
it to be called the greatest menace and monopoly the world
has ever known.
From the start, it had a two-fold objective; to secure and
govern, for itself, all lucrative offices in the army and navy,
the civil service, and the hospitals; and, second, to unite as
one against the other physicians and practitioners, destroy
their social standing, and drive them out of the business of
medicine entirely. They then drew up a code of ethics.
196 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Several lawsuits arose out' of this code, one costing the as­
sociation a very large sum in damanges. Soon able jurists
were describing this code of ethics ‘‘a combination against
common law, and a conspiracy against the public health.
It was not without reason that Dr. Benjamin Rush, one of
the signers of the Declaration of Independence, knew what
he was arguing for during the making of that great docu­
ment, when he said,
We have provided for religious freedom, but, unless we
make provision for medical freedom, our best efforts to
establish a government of freemen shall prove abortive,
and the American people will forever live in bondage.
Freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of
speech, were ultimately written into the Constitution and
the Bill of Rights'; Dr. Benjamin Rush’s vision of medical
freedom never grew beyond a vision.
The American Medical Association, as it stands today, is
an incorporation under the Illinois State laws, their papers
of incorporation being on file in the office of the State Re­
corder or the Secretary of State, in Springfield, Illinois.
Baker began to examine into its history. He found it spiead
broadcast for the public to read, but in authoritative per­
iodicals not easy of access to the general public. He dis­
covered things he had never dreamed could be true. He
discovered them, of all places, in the December, 1922, issue
of the Illinois Medical Journal. Here he read, among other
things, under the title The A. M. A. Becomes an Autocracy:
The A. M. A. is today a one-man organization. The House
of Delegates of the A. M. A. stands divested of power, except
the perfunctory privilege of electing a Board of Trustees.
The entire medical profession of the United' States, in so far
as its organization is concerned, is today at the mercy of one
man and a Board of Trustees that is subservient to him.
“Few members of the A. M. A. realize the centralizing
changes that have taken place in their organization within
the last 22 years. So adroitly and insidiously have these
changes been brought about that the majority of the mem­
bers, even those best informed regarding the organization,
have been so dazzled by the material prosperity of the
A. M. A. that they have entirely overloked the fact that dur-
T h e Medical Octopus
i
197
Ing this period of expansion the Association has been,con­
verted from a democratic and self-governing body of profes­
sional men into a highly centralized machine WITH ABSO­
LUTE CONTROL CENTERED IN A SINGLE INDIVIDUAL.
In 1898 the A. M. A. was an entirely different organization
from what it is today. Dr. John M. Hamilton, then editor of
the Journal, devoted a few hours each week to general
supervision.
Dr. Hamilton’s death in 1898 led .to the determination of
the Board of Trustees to elect a wholetime editor who would
devote himself to developing the Journal. In February, 1899,
Dr. Simmons was elected editor of the Journal. At the annual
meeting in June, it was suggested the editor of the Journal
also act as Secretary of the Association. This suggestion was
adopted and Dr. Simmons occupied the two offices from that
time until 1911.
The Illinois Medical Jo urna l article went on to say that
by 1901 Simmons, the editor of the A. M. A. Journal and,the
secretary of the national organization, had somehow also
become the trustee of this Journal. A reorganization was
started which centered around control of the Journal and
the immense funds which cam e into it. Simmons by this
gradual insidious process became dictator of the organiza­
tion. The membership fee in the national association is
five dollars a year ; of this, fou r dollars goes to the Journal.
Control of this large and grow ing fund gradually enabled
Simmons and his group to change the control of the organ­
ization into a com plete and absolute dictatorship. Again
we quote the Illinois Medical Journal article:
The only source of revenue of the Association was the
Journal, and the only purpose for which money was expend­
ed, with the exception of some slight Association expenses,
were the expenses of publishing the Journal. It was, there­
fore, perfectly natural that all bills should be approved by
the editor (Simmons) and all checks signed' by him..............
It was early recognised by those desirous of concentrating
the powers and resources of the Association that whoever
controlled the finances of the Association would ultimately
control the Association itself, since no action would be taken,
no committee could function, no officers could carry on any
activity, except as the necessary expenses for such purposes
were authorized. In the 22 years of expansion of the Asso­
ciation and the Journal, the anomalous condition has devel-
198 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
oped whereby the Journal which is the property of the Asso­
ciation, now absolutely controls the Association to which it
belongs. The editor of the Association has developed into
an absolute dictator of the Association and its affairs
, through the control of the finances! of the Association............
The individual members are today in the same position as
the stockholders of a corporation. They can vote for direc­
tors but they have nothing to say abut the policy or man­
agement. The editor of the Journal has developed into a
GENERAL MANAGER OP THE ASSOCIATION WITH AB­
SOLUTE CONTROL OVER ALL THE MEMBERS OP THE
ORGANIZATION WHO HAVE BEEN GRADUALLY SUB­
ORDINATED TO HIM. Into his hands has been placed con­
trol of all the funds of the Journal of which he is editor;
also all the earnings of the Journal; and all of the funds of
the Association itself and all of the surplus funds of the
Association and of all other property that it may have.
This article im m ediately sent B ak er off on the trail of
the dictator of the A m erican M edical Association, Dr.
George H. Simmons. W ho’s Who in Am erica gave him a
most respectable back-ground:
SIMMONS, George H., editor; b. Moreton, Eng., Jan. 2, 1852; 8.
George and1Sarah Louise (Clifford) S.; came to U. S. 1670; student
Tabor Coll., la., 1871-72, U. of Neb., 1872-76; M. D. Hahnemann
Med. Coll., Chicago, 1882] M. D., Rush Med. Coll.. 1892; L. M., Ro­
tunda Hosp., Dublin, 1884; post-grad, work in Europe, 1685-84; (hon.
A. M., Tabor, 1899; LL. D., Northwestern U., 1907.) Practiced
medicine and surgery, Lincoln, Neb., 1884-99; gen. sec. A M. A.,
I899-I9M ; editor Journal of Am. Med. Assn., 1899*1924; established
Western Medical Review, 1896. Commd. 1st It Med. R C„ U, S. A„
1908, maj. 1917. Sec. Neb. State Med. Soc., 1895-99; Western Surge
and Gynecol. Soc., 1896-99; pres. Inst, of Medicine, Chicago, 1921
Clubs: Cosmos (W ashington); University, City, Edgewater Golf
(Chicago). Office: 535 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, 111.
A splendid record, on its face. We note that the
revered doctor is eighty-four today; that he came to
America from England at the age of eighteen; that
he was a student at two institutions of learning,
though not a graduate, up to his twenty-fourth year;
a doctor at the age of thirty; a doctor again—the
first queer note—at the age of forty; a practitioner
in Nebraska for fifteen years, during which time he
was secretary of the Nebraska State Medical Society
and of a body entitled the Western Surgical and
Gynecological Society, evidently specializing in the
T h e M edical Octopus 199
diseases of women, and also had time to found the
Western Medical Review. With this apprenticeship,
in 1899 he became general secretary of the American
Medical Association and editor of its Journal, hold­
ing the first post twelve years, the second for twenty-
five. Apparently never married. A stainless and
enviable record, on its face.
Baker probed behind the mask. He discovered
an attack in a little magazine called Jim Jam Jems,
published by Sam H. 'Clark at Bismarck, North
Dakota, in the March, 1913 issue. Following this
up, he secured affidavits from people closely con­
nected over the years with the career of Dr. Simmons.
Notably from his divorced wife, Margaret E. Sim­
mons. It has all been published in TNT, as most of
it had been published before; Dr. Simmons has de­
nied none of it, he has sued no one foh libel; it must
be taken as the bleak unvarnished truth.
At the age of eighteen, George H. Simmons ran
away from his home in England and came to America.
He secured a free education by posing as a theological'
student at Tabor College, in Iowa, and as an agri­
cultural student at the University of Nebraska.
Neither the soil nor'the word of God attracted him
sufficiently; he took a short course at the Hahnemann
Medical College in Chicago, and received a degree
entitling him to regard himself as a doctor. He
returned to Lincoln, Nebraska, and married a lovely
and well-familied girl there. They had a baby,
which lived only eight months. While the baby was
still alive, he met a woman who had been one of his
wife’s girlhood friends, and became infatuated with
her, spending much of his time with her. He began
to treat his wife cruelly. Three months after the
200 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
baby died, he took all the joint savings, told his wife
she must meet future payments on their home, and
said he was returning to Europe to complete his
medical education. His wife was pregnant, at the
time he made this announcement of his plans; a little
life, their joint product, was stirring within her womb.
He told her that he was going to perform an abortion
upon her. He took his keen surgeon’s knife, with the
enciente body of his own wife bared before him,
and deliberately destroyed the little life. And then
he left her.
The wife was obliged to teach, in order to meet
payments on the home they had purchased together;
in spite of this, the doctor wrote importunate letters
from Europe, demanding money from her. After a
little more than a year he returned to Lincoln, and
for two years resumed the practice of medicine. Not
too successfully. Suddenly he blossomed out as
founder and owner of the Lincoln Medical Institute
and water cure.
On the following pages are their advertisements
from a Lincoln, Nebraska, paper of 1886, 1887 and
1888.
G. H. Simmons, L. M., M. D., is listed for Diseases
of the Skin, Genito-Urinary Complaints (this word is
obscured), and Gynecology. “ All non-contagious dis­
eases admitted.” Below appears a card of Dr. G. H.
Simmons, Homeopathic Physician and Surgeon, with
two office addresses. Now on the blacklist of the
American Medical Association, and was in 1886. This
institute, his wife states, lasted only a year. In one
of his advertisements Simmons claims to have spent
a year and a half in the greatest hospitals in London
and Vienna. In another, in which he lias blossomed
T h e Medical Octopus 201
forth as a specialist in rectal diseases, he guarantees
to cure all cases of “Hemorrhoids (Piles), Fistula,
Itching Piles and Rectal Diseases.” His homeopathic
method, his advertising, his guaranteeing a cure, are
all contrary to the strict mandates of the American
Medical Association, which he was so soon to be­
come dictator of.
After his return from Europe, his wife had begged
him for a home and children. She became pregnant;
this made the doctor furious. He gave her not one
moment’s peace; every moment in her presence he
kept at her to consent to an abortion. He made life
a continual hell for her—we are quoting her affidav­
it, remember—and threatened to: sell the home, He
said he did not want a child by her. At last, in men­
tal agony, and for the moment sure that she did not
want a child with the instincts of such a father, she
consented. Again he took his keen surgeon’s knife,
with the enciente body of his own wife bared before
him, and deliberately destroyed the little life that
they had jointly started.
The infatuation for the girlhood friend of his wife
had continued, after his return from Europe; and
continued until one Mrs. Irvin came to Lincoln with
her husband and a crippled boy,' to consult the
homeopathic specialist. She was a beautiful woman,
and became infatuated with the doctor. Their
movements became the talk of the town. In his
office, when her husband was in town, and in her
home when he was away, they spent many hours
together. The doctor told his wife that Mrs. Irvin
had neuralgia; never did neuralgia patient have
a more attentive specialist attending her,. Nor was
this his only affair. His wife had a house-guest.
Double advertisement from a Lincoln paper, 1886, therein Dr. George Simmons,
now head and dictator of the medical trust, advertised, In, viol-atloa of medical ethics,
an Institution that purported to cure practically everything. Note also the fake,
“compound oxygen." Observe «Iso that this man who is now head ofi the organized
Allopaths was then a Homeopath. Regarding this photostatic reproduction and the
others used in connection with this article, Margaret Simmons, former wife of Dr.
Simmon*, says in an affidavit: “ 1 have seen the photographic reproductions of the
advertisements of George H. Simmons, and will say that they ore absolutely true."
Advertisement from a Lincoln paper, 1888. Concerning Dr. Simmons’ advertise*
ment here of “Diseases of Women,” Mrs. Simmons says: “One of these advertise­
ments which reads, ‘A Limited Number of Patients can be Accommodated at My
Residence,’ did not arouse my suspicion at first, but as I became acquainted with
things medical in helping my husband, and as one peculiar thing happened which
I will relate later, and since Ï have studied medicine and graduated, I KNOW THESE
SPECIAL CASES WERE ABORTIONS.” (The Index hand in this ad calling atten­
tion to Dr. Simmons* modest praise of himself was inserted by us.)
204 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
Mrs. Kate Monell-Hurlburt; the doctor had an affair
with her, which became more noticeable when Mrs.
Simmons left for Mount Vernon for treatment, and
during the two years Mrs. Simmons was studying
medicine in Chicago, at her husband’s request, to
help him with his practice. After he divorced his
wife, Dr. Simmons married this woman. Note that
both these marriages are omitted from the record in
Who’s Who. Nor was this his only emotional outlet.
The doctor kept up his practice of aborting his
wife, each time that he made her pregnant. He did
this so often, says her affidavit, that he ruined her
health. Every so often the urge must have come
upon him to enjoy her body. He took no precau­
tions to prevent pregnancy, since he had another
remedy for the condition. There are surgeons who
enjoy every detail of such a life-destroying act. He
would make her pregnant ; and, just when the hopes
of postponed mother hood arose again in her breast
and the little life stirred beneath her heart, he would
take his keen surgeon’s knife, with the enciente body
of his own wife bared before him, and deliberately
destroy the little life that they had jointly started.
He kept this up, until he finally wrecked her health.
Hb gave her morphine, without telling her what he
gave her, for relief; and made her a morphine addict.
He then sought to have her detained, against her
will, in Mt. Vernon, Ohio. The doctor in charge
tried to keep her prisoner, tried even to prevent
her from writing letters. She got as far as Chicago,
in spite of the efforts to restrain her, and wrote to
her husband to send her the money to come home.
He wrote her at once that he did not want her to
return, but that he wanted to get a divorce. He
T h e Medical Octopus 205
tried first to get it on the grounds that she was a
drug addict— in other words, tried to divorce iier
for something he had caused! Failing in this, he
secured a divorce, without her knowledge or con­
sent, on the grounds of her cruelty to him! Her
affidavit says that the complaint on which the hear­
ing took place was fraudulently substituted for the one
which she had seen.
At the time of the second abortion, her husband
had come to his wife and told her that he would have
to go to jail, unless she could raise twelve hundred
dollars for him. She got her mother to sign a note
to the Capital 'National Bank of Lincoln; later she
had to borrow from her' uncle to pay the bank; and
finally she had to sell her home in Lincoln to pay
her uncle.
As a homeopathic doctor, his career had not been
glittering. And so he went off to Chicago to attend
the Kush Medical College, to become an allopathic
doctor presumably. We quote from wife’s affidavit:
He remained there but twelve days and returned home and
. told me that he had arranged to take his course by having
roll call (answered) for him, but that he would go back at
the time of the examination. He went back at the time of the
examination and returned with a Rush College medical de­
gree. He was only gone a few days.
B efore his wife left Lincoln fo r Mt. Vernon the last time,
she had sold the house and paid off all the debts of D r.
Simmons and herself, and had twelve hundred dollars left
on deposit in the bank before mentioned. She never re­
ceived any of this money. I t was taken and used by her hus­
band. The only money she ever received from him was an
alim ony of $40 a m onth for one year, which she accepted,
weak and sick as she was, to save herself from starvation.
And there was a darker side to her husband’s practice, as
her affidavit goes on to state. One of his advertisements
had r e a d : “ A Lim ited N um ber of Lady Patients Can
206 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
Be Accommodated at My Residence." She did not sus­
pect at first anything peculiar about such patients; she
saw enough later to convince her that they were abortion
cases. She goes into details about someof these. We need not.
While Simmons was editor of the Journal of the A. M. A.,
he ran advertisements of the Abbott Alkaloidal Company
of Chicago, after he had previously, in the same periodical,
condemned the product thus advertised as fraudulent and
dishonest and “no-good dope." His wife’s affidavit says
that she gave Dr. Abbott the information regarding Sim­
mon’s past life in affidavit form; and that shortly thereafter
the full-page advertisement in the Journal appeared. In re­
turn for this, Abbott had promised her, says her affidavit,
that he would help the ex-wife secure the return from Dr.
Simmons of the twelve hundred dollars of her money he
had used; that he would hire a lawyer at his own expense to
fight the fraudulent divorce and make her husband give her
a home. The outcome of the incident was, that Dr. Abbott
simply did not live up to any of his promises.
The ex-wife eventually landed in a poorhouse in New
Jersey, and in 1930 Baker personally sent her seventy-five
dollars to buy her a few clothes, and pay her transportation
to Chicago, where she could be with friends. The ex-wife’s
letter was pathetic in the extreme; it stated, among other
things, that she would like to have the heel of one of her
shoes raised about three-quarters of an inch, because she
was a little crippled, and that she thought a shoe-maker
would put on the raised heel for about fifty cents. And this
was the woman whom the divorce papers describe as having
been “ cruel” to her husband, Dr. George H. Simmons, vir­
tual dictator of the American Medical Association!
I offer this man’s life, and Norman Baker’s as a splendid
study in contrast. From every standpoint, Baker stands
out as a splendid cultured gentleman; it is impossible,
within the limits of decent writing, to characterize Dr.
Simmons. Compare the marriages of the two men, if you
T h e Medical Octopus 207
will: compare the treatments of their wives: compare the
details of their divorce actions. In every respect, Baker
shines, Simmons smoulders with a brimstone light. Com­
pare Simmon’s past, as homeopathic guaranteeing cure-all
doctor, with Baker’s magnificent efforts to relieve humanity.
I need say no further.
If Dr. George H. Simmons now belatedly chooses to deny
any of these statements, he is hereby invited to submit a
truthful affidavit; and this will be published at the close of
this chapter in all future editions of the book. He has de­
layed so long to answer any of these matters, that theymay
be almost accepted as true by the statute of limitations.
And this man sits at the head, or'diduntil recently of the
ninety-six thousand doctors organized into the American
Medical Association, with a monopoly upon the positions of
army and navy surgeons, examining insurance doctors, and
all responsible positions in all of the leading hospitals.
Some wise man once said that every institution was the
lengthened shadow! of a man. For years the A. M. A. has
been the lengthened shadow of Dr. Simmons. We have seen
what manner of man he is: we need not be surprised at any
collective activities of the A. M. A., from nowon.
CHAPTER XI
THE NETWORK OF THE SPIDER’S WEB
The home office of the American Medical Associa­
tion today is at 535 North Dearborn Street, Chicago,
still listed as the address of Dr. George H. Simmons.
This is a large six-story building with basement, cost­
ing many hundreds of thousands of dollars. The
building stands by itself, which eliminates robbery by
gaining entrance from an adjoining building. It is
well guarded with large steel doors which lock auto­
matically, and which are controlled by an electrical
device. Glass partitions are made with reinforced
steel, and the important papers of the association
are protected in steel files placed in strong vaults of
the best steel and concrete construction. For some
reason, the association deems it best to protect its
secrets from any danger of leakage to interested
parties outside of the organization.
From this central office they have gone to each of
the forty-eight States in the union, and have organ­
ized as their branch subsidiary the State Medical
Society. The purpose of this has been to control all
State medical matters, to regulate health boards and
restrict the membership on these to association mem­
bers, to lobby effectually to secure the passage of
those bills relating to medical matters which will
work to their own advantage,— the sort of bills that
any honest commentator must call class legislation.
208
Th e Network of th e Spider's W^b 209
With this control of the State Health Boards they can
announce epidemics of smallpox, diphtheria, influen­
za, infantile paralysis, sleeping sickness, real or im­
aginary. They have a monopoly of state medical news,
as their State Medical Board issues health reports in
favor of their work, especially in matters concerning
vaccinations, which mean income for the doctors in­
volved and for the serum manufacturers.
This charge of political domination of the states is
not matter of guesswork. There is no office of any
State Medical Society whose files do not show cir­
cularization lists of doctors and politicians, to aid in
their active political work. Nor do they make a
secret of their effective lobbying and more direct
political actions. The Journal of the American
Medical Association itself published a letter from
Dr. S. J. Crumbine, of Topeka, Kansas, established
how fully the Kansas State society was in politics;
and urged all other State and County societies to do
as much. It told of the determination to secure rep­
resentation in the legislature; of the choice of Dr. E.
L. Nichols of Liberal, the county seat, to make the
race; and how, regardless of party lines they elected
him.
The doctors agreed not only that they would work for his
election, which they did most heartily, but also they would
turn hack all his patients on his return from the legislature
and pay him a per diem-bonus as well while he was in at­
tendance at the capital.
Dr. Nichols made his maiden speech the other day in the
house defeating the schemes of the enemies of the Kansas
food and drugs law by causing the untimely death of House
Bill 76. This bill called for the reorganization of the State
Board of Health, replacing the majority of the physicians
210 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
on the board with laymen who are interested in the manu­
facture and sale of food and drugs. Incidentally it might
be remarked that the present Democratic governor—who
won his election by a majority of twenty-six votes,—was
elected by the physicians of Kansas, eighty-five per cent
of whom voted for him as against the Republican candidate,
the publisher of the Topeka Capital and a large number of
other publications which carry nostrum advertisements.
Dr. Nichols is ably assisted by two other physicians, one of
whom ran on a platform of public-health education, dis­
regarding the platform of his own political party. Is it
not about time that the physicians of the country should
emulate the example set by the Seward County Medical
Society and get together?
/ And here is a letter sent out from Chicago, under
date of February 21, 1916, printed on the stationery
of the Illinois State Medical Society, which establishes
beyond peradventure their intention and desire of
controlling all things medical in America:
Dear Doctor: Chicago, Illinois.
Enclosed you will find a card indicating how your Senator
and Representative voted at the last session of the Illinois
Legislature on a medical bill of vital interest to the people
and the profession.
Retain this card for future reference; from now until th e'1
primaries and election. Lose no opportunity to impress
your brother physician with the importance of doing every­
thing possible in a legitimate way to re-elect those who
voted right and to defeat those who voted wrong, should
any of these men seek renomination and re-election.
Remember every physician can influence upwards of fifty
votes.
Experience with the last legislature should satisfy you
that in the future it is unsafe for doctors to trust their
interests to the average representative. - . . . '
Instead of depending upon laymen to look after his wel­
fare, physicians should in greater numbers become members
of our legislative bodies.
T h e Network of th e Spider’s W\Eb 211
The Lancet Clinic says we should have at least as many
physicians as lawyers in our legislatures. Certain it is
that medicine should be better represented numerically in our
legislative halls. '
In a few months the new members of the House and Sen­
ate will have to be nominated and elected, and it is the duty
of the profession of each Senatorial district to see that one
physician is nominated for both House and Senate. Then,
regardless of politics, the profession of the district should
guarantee their election. This can easily be done if every
individual will put his shoulder to the wheel.
Surely in every Senatorial district some representative
physician can be induced to make the race for member of the
legislature.
The letter proceeds to list distinguished English and Euro­
pean doctors in politics; and five American doctors who
signed the Declaration of Independence. It continues,
For the good of the country there is no reason why we
should not have proper medical representation in Illinois.
A good physician can be the best of military governors. It
would be a credit to many constituencies could they be
represented by educated ethical medical men. . . .
The Legislative Committee of the Illinois State Medical
Society, while convinced the benefit that will accrue to all
the people by having a large number of physicians in our
next Senate Legislature, are loath to undertake the work
unless there is a large percentage of doctors in the state
who .will promise to render active aid and assistance in the
movement.
Please indicate on enclosed card what you will do and
return to the committee at once. Legislative Committee,
Illinois State Medical Society.
Here is an exact replica of a pledge card sent out
to candidates for the Illinois legislature, dated
August, 1914, accompanied by a long letter. The
printed address on the card, to which it was to be
returned, was Drs. Fowler, and Taylor, Chairmen of
Public Relation and Legislative Committees, Illinois
212 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
State and Chicago Medical Societies, 31 West Lake
Street, Chicago, Illinois.
If elected to the Illinois Legislature I will do my utmost
to maintain one standard for all practitioners of medicine
and will use my influence to defeat any legislation the
object of which is to permit any cult to practice medicine
at a standard of medical education lower than those al­
ready in the field under the pretext that its followers are
not practicing medicine. I shall at all times support medi­
cal legislation which is in the interest of the people of the
state and not for the interest of any special cult or school
of practice. I shall vote to retain, in Illinois, a one board
supervision over all candidates for practice. That the
examination be for all alike whether they belong to the
now recognized schools of medicine or have tacked onto
their names some "Path”, “Cult" or “Ism”.
I will use my best efforts to help amend the medical
practice act so as to give the State Board of Health
supervision over all medical licenses issued by the State
of Illinois. Under the present law the State Board of
Health has jurisdiction only over those issued since 1899.
Candidate from the___________ and ___________ District
A typical public reaction to such un-American
tactics is excellently stated in an editorial published
March 20, 1916, in the Pharos Reporter, of Logans-
port, Indiana, which concluded:
It doesn’t take a great deal of perspicuity to see the
threat involved and, according to our view of American
philosophy of government is a dangerous attack upon the
freedom which our representatives are presumed to have.
The American Medical Association is unparalleled for
the adroitness and persistence of its efforts to secure
legislation for the benefit of the medical profession, and
the doctor “in politics” has become so common that it is
T h e Netw ork of th e Spid er’s We b 213
in some localities, at least, difficult to find a doctor whois
not “in politics.” The time has come when this associa­
tion may as well know that it cannot continue to repress
the scientific advance of the world and that there are
developments in the thought of men which transcend the
narrow limits of any school or association.
We can recall vividly the day when all the venom of hate
was directed toward those who suggested “Homeopathy”;
a time when these latter advocates were the butt of allo­
pathic ridicule, and that continued until the narrowness of
the view of the “regulars" disgusted the public and then
attacks ceased.
The letter above quoted has for its object an attack upon
all drugless healing, including Christian Science, Osteo­
pathy and the profession of the Chiropractor. The people
do not need a guardian to instruct them how to think
on these things and if they do, they will undoubtedly assume
the selection of their own monitors. The writer of this
article is not a Christian Scientist, but he has had long
enough experience to come to the safe conclusion that the
world has not reached its maximum of healing knowledge
in the books of the medical doctors. “ . . . ”
It is no part of the purpose of The Dispatch to offend the
individual members of the medical profession, and we speak
thus plainly because we feel that the average physician has
little to do with the political activities of the American
Medical Association. “ . . . ”
Hence we think that the activity of the American Medical
Association is undemocratic and dangerous to the highest
interests of the people of this Republic, and the sooner we
confine their energies to the promotion of their own cause
and deny them the right to dictate to the rest of us as to
whom we shall employ when we are ailing, and as to what
limitations we shall make on the right of people to choose
in the methods of healing, the sooner we shall rid ourselves
of a burden which is just now setting to be intolerable.
Norman Baker has even seen the group directly
at work in their lobbying. In 1930, he attended the
legislative session of two houses in the State Capitol
at Des Moines, and saw the doctors at their nefarious
lobbying with his own eyes. They went further.
There was an “investigator” for the State Medical
Board, named Carlson; hired by the State Medical
214 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Board, and every member of the board is a member
of the Iowa State Medical Society. This investigator
was paid by the taxpayers of the State, and is not
an employee of any national, state, or county medi­
cal association, as far as the records run. He spent
his time in the State Capitol lobbying for certain
medical bills sponsored by the Iowa State Medical
Society.
The American Medical Association and its affili­
ated medical societies consist solely of allopathic
doctors, as already described: the administrants of
drugs, serums, and vaccines designed to set up, in the
body, a condition incompatible with the disease.
The word comes from two Greek words meaning
“other disease,” or “other suffering” : that is, their
effort is to neglect the disease already in the patient,
and to cause in him another disease or suffering of
a diametrically opposing nature, and thus supposedly
benefit him. As if, when a man’s leg is cut off, they
should cut eff his ear or give him malaria, in some
warped notion that this aids the cure of the am­
putated leg. They emerge from medical college
unable to administer or even name one drug out of all
the world’s compounded drugs, which is a cure or
specific for any known human disease. They re­
port cures; but these cures have been made by nature,
while the allopathic doctors delayed the recovery of
the patient by injecting or administering other
diseases or sufferings to him, while all the time guess­
ing at the diagnosis of the ailment from which the
patient was actually suffering. That the diagnosis
are no better than guesswork may be established by
Dr. Richard C. Cabot of the Harvard Medical School,
T h e Netw ork of th e Spid er’s Web 215
head also of the Massachusetts General Hospital,
when he says:
Over fifty per cent of the diagnoses by the allo­
pathic physicians are wrong.
Regarding their brother surgeons, the well known
Dr. William J. Mayo has said:
There are fifty thousand surgeons operating in
the United States, and only ten thousand of them
are qualified to operate.
Four out of every five surgeons, in other words,
should at ¡once be put out of business. The entire
ignorance of the allopathic medical profession is
clearly demonstrated in a book entitled A Layman’s
Handbook of Medicine, by Dr. Richard C. Cabot,
whose distinguished affiliations are listed above.
We quote from him page by page. Page 150,
They do not know what appendicitis is, or how to prevent it.
¿age 61,
There Is no cure for asthma, but it may get well itself.
Page 165, of Bright’s disease.
No medicine helps the kidneys to get rid of this inflamma­
tion.
Page 135, on constipation,
A person who uses lax ativ es never gets rid o f constipation.
Page 137, regarding the liver,
One is apt to be told, “This drug works well on the liver.”
But there are no such drugs.
Page 303, discussing spotted fever,
It sometimes occurs as a result of drugs.
Page 353, on whooping cough,
Some day we may have a cure; but so far we have not any.
Page 353, on scarlet fever, measles and chicken pox,
We do not know much about the exanthemata (or, eruptive
diseases, or rashes); we have been searching for many years
for these germs, but we know very little about them. This
ignorance makes the diagnosis still wholly unsatisfactory.
Page 501,
Drugs are seldom of much value.
Page 502,
The honest doctor must often confess that he doesn’t know
what “general” trouble is present, nor what the matter is.
216 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Luckily, in moat oases the trouble passes oS without the
luxury of a diagnosis, or the bother of treatment.
Page 514, of grippe or influenza, popularly called the flu,
At present we know no effective treatment for it, and can
combat it only by “giving up to it.”
The general ignorance of the whole allopathic medical profession
was never put more authoritatively and sweepingly, than in this,
utterance of one of the titled bigwigs of the group itself. On'
page 615, he says:
Disease usually gets well of itself, if given half a chance.
Many a victory over germs is so easily won by the body’s
healing power, that we never experience any illness at all.
We try to aid nature! We cle'.r the way for Nature’s Army
of Restoration. In the two hundred and seventy odd diseases,
as listed in textbooks of medicine, Nature, with some help ■
from hygiene, can usually do the work.
An endless flood of such proofs could be furnished,
all from nationally and internationally known phy­
sicians. And since thus the allopathic doctors can
not cure one disease with drugs, their organization,
the American Medical Association, with its State
and county subsidiaries, becomes a vast network of
societies that foster quackery by charging for ser­
vices and drugs, which they know do not cure, and
which they pretend do cure.
Before we depart entirely from the universal
political activities of the organized allopaths, let us
return to Norman Baker’s own State, Iowa, where
it is openly charged that the embattled allopaths
control ninety-nine per cent of the politicians, and
hold them in a state of constant trembling awe.
The Iowa State Medical Society sent out a letter on
November 1,1916, attacking the proposal of different
and easier examinations for Chiropractors, and end­
ing, “ It is needless to'say that it will be best to work
quietly among your friends.”
Baker found out how this control operated in the
State, in January, 1931.. He called on Governor
T he Network of th e Spider’s "Web 217
Turner, after the medical forces had prosecuted and
persecuted Baker for a year, and told his story. The
governor said to him, ‘‘Mr. Baker, my hands are tied.
But I have a good friend on the Health Committee of
the Legislature, and I believe I can arrange for you
to give a talk before that committee.” Nevertheless,
he did nothing. When Baker applied at the door of
the Health Committee room, it was locked, and the
secretary of the committee, in the outer room, re­
fused Baker admission or any consideration whatso­
ever. Thus a branch of the Iowa State Legislature,
an open committee, was barred to a taxpayer of Iowa.
The governor was even afraid or unwilling to ap­
proach the legislature and ask them to appoint a
legislative committee to investigate the cancer treat­
ments given in the Baker Hospital, even after the
cures at the hospital had been established in the dis­
trict court at Muscatine, in September 1930.
As if the national and state organizations were
not enough, the grasping allopaths organized in every
county of every state a County Medical Society. If
a county was too small, they combined several of
them together for further efficiency. This brings
the organization of the allopaths down to every man’s
front door. The function of the county societies is
to influence county and city and township and ward
politicians, as the State society controls the State
politicians, and the national association the national
politicians. Any physician in the county who re­
fuses to join the medical society is termed an outlaw
or a rebel; and in subtle ways the member physicians
humiliate , ridicule and scoff when his name is men­
tioned. If he is sued for malpractice, or improper
or illegal treatment, which is the constant fear of
218 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
many physicians, he finds it hard to secure any of the
doctors to testify in his behalf as a medical expert
or otherwise. Needless to say, this fear of having
his business ruined and being unable to secure pro­
tection is a powerful club influencing every practicing
doctor to join the county society.
Inspired newspaper articles began to appear,
advocating the things that the embryonic monopoly
desired.. Somehow the offices of city and county
health physicians were created, which furnished a
position of authority from which the selfish allo­
paths could utter their dogmatic desires.
Up to this point, the organization had not secured
direct contact with the children: and the children
are the most fertile mental ground in which to plant
the seeds of any propaganda. Slowly city and county
school doctors, dentists, city, county and rural school
nurses; and finally, to pacify the parents, the Parent-
Teachers Associations, featuring talks by doctors,
doctor’s wives, or nurses.
The majority of the members are unaware still of
the real organizers of the groups, or of the selfish
motive behind the organization. Nor are the organ­
ization harmless to the children. Many parents to­
day can see crooked teeth in the mouths of their
children, because the busy-body school nurse noticed
a loose tooth, and had it pulled by the dentist pre­
maturely, before nature was ready for it to come
out; and the new tooth came in crooked after many
weeks, deflected by the movement of the teeth to
the two sides, which had begun to trespass upon the
space. The same is true of hundreds of children
forced to go through life without tonsils, the throat’s
natural guard against infections. Late in life the
Th e Network of the Spider’s Web 219
time may come when this guard becomes so saturated
with poisons, that it can no longer eliminate them,
but spreads them; and not before then is there any
reason for tonsilectomy. But the premature elimi­
nation of tonsils permits poisons to enter the unguard­
ed stomach, just as the withdrawal of guards from a
bank vault would permit robbers to enter. Baker
has told the parents of America sternly to qualify
and learn how to handle the bodies of their own
children, instead of leaving this to the ignorance and
selfishness of unequipped adolescent school nurses
and greedy allopathic practitioners. Such married
couples as can not learn and qualify in this regard,
he says, would confer an inestimable boon upon
posterity by fondling and tending nothing larger
than poodles.
This attack is nationwide; never think for a mo­
ment that Norman Baker is the only man who sees
and says the facts. The Pathfinder, of Washington,
D. C.f which would not run Baker’s honest cancer
treatment advertisement—we do not have to guess
too much to see the long tenacles of the A. M. A.
beneath this refusal— published in their May, 1931
issue:
Medical service in this country has become an
acute question, and the medical profession is
.under fire as never before. Writers, lecturers,
publicists, politicians, and patients have joined
in the attack; many physicians themselves have
admitted the rottenness in Denmark, and it is
now quite apparent that a revolution is in
progress: that the near future will see a more
220 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
practical and more equitable system in effect
between doctors and those requiring the doctor’s
care.
The revolution is growing.
Still the greedy activities of the A. M. A. went on.
The object was to secure for themselves all lucrative
practice, missing none. The organized doctors
decreed that they must also control all medical treat­
ment of the sufferers among the poor cared for by
the county. During the national convention of the
American Medical Association, held in Detroit a few
years ago, a new enterprise, the County Health Unit,
was proposed. Here is how it was carried out, in
Muscatine County, Iowa, Baker’s home county. For
years the position of county physician of this county
had been held by Dr. Norton, an independent doctor
with a nice practice, who did not belong to the
county medical society; and with the $1500 or $1800
from the county in addition to his other income. Two
years ago, Dr. Beveridge, of the Muscatine County
Medical Society, was instrumental in presenting to
the County Board of Supervisors a contract which
replaced the county physician with a County Health
Unit, consisting of all the doctors of the county who
were members of the Muscatine County Medical
Society, for a yearly remuneration of over twice the
amount, or between $3600 and $4000, plus extras for
hospital medication, bandages and the like. For two
years the county has done this. In two years the
organized allopathic doctors have collected between
$3600 and $4000 from the taxpayers, above what the
satisfactory medical service previously cost them.
Th e Network of th e Spider’s Wjeb 221
Iowa has ninety-nine counties; the same process re­
peated throughout the State would mean a yearly
gouge of §198,000 from the taxpayers to the allo­
pathic organization. There are forty-eight States;
forty-eight times this amount is $9,600,000, all to
pour into the pockets of the members of the American
Medical Association. Their stake is worth doing a
lot for, openly and furtively: and they do a lot to
achieve it. Inactive county supervisors, a throttled
public opinion, a servile press, an apathetic populace,
and the gouge will become a reality, worth approxi­
mately ten million dollars a year to the medical
octopus.
There is no cure for such a condition, but an aroused
public opinion. This book will go far towards rous­
ing it; all the readers of this book should automatical­
ly become boosters for it, and voluntary propagan­
dists against the heartless callous efforts of the medi­
cal autocracy to milch the public in this fashion. A
taxpayer’s league in every county, that would de­
mand and effectuate the repeal of the County Health
Unit plan; this could do a lot. It would in addition
make it possible for the drugless healing profession
to strengthen their opposition to the entrenched allo­
pathic octopus. No longer, then, would the helpless
sufferers in the county poorhouses be forced to sub­
mit to operations, radium and X-ray treatments, and
drugs usually useless: no longer would they be the
prey of doctors who dally with their symptoms alone,
instead of removing the cause of the disease—the
same as placing a pail to catch water leaking from a
leaky bathtub, instead of plugging up the leak.
222 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen *
There are other activities of the County M edical Society. '
Their w arfare on the independent doctor never ceases. They
can threaten or actu ally bring him into cou rt on a charge
of unprofessional conduct or some sim ilar charge, even
though the independent doctors have a larger practice, a
greater income, a finer rep u tation than they. They can re­
port such doctors to the S tate M edical Society, which con­
trols the State H ealth B oard and the S tate M edical E xam ­
ination B oard, or the B oard of M edical Censure. In their
hands the State has placed the entire control, to decide what
doctors can and w hat doctors cannot practice medicine in
the State. E ven in States which favor drugless healing, the
organized allopaths seek to pass laws requiring a medical
examination of all drugless healers, before a license is given
them ; although such exam ination has nothing to do with
the methods of the drugless healer, since he does n ot use
drugs, but body m anipulations, with roots and herbs as med­
icines. B y instinct the sick anim al seeks and finds the roots
and herbs which will afford relief and aid n a tu re ’s cu re;
only has man been so blinded by his own precocious and
empty learning, th at he has sought to flee from n atu re’s real
healing and rely on the sorry cru tch of his b rain 's intricate
and superstition-derived medicam ents, whose total value is
perilously close to zero.
Not th at their efforts alw ays succeed. The Illinois Su­
preme Court, in 1921, declared unconstitutional the Illinois
Medical P ractice A ct of 1917, because it discrim inated
against drugless healers. Y e t such upflares of intelligence in
the direction of m edical freedom are all too r a re ; and the
never-ending insidious efforts of the A m erican M edical A s­
sociation and its allied groups slowly root out the independ­
ent judges who u ttered them. A nd so the prediction of D r.
Benjam in Rush, th at great advocate of m edical freedom
during the fight over the D eclaration of Independence, be­
comes a re a lity :
Our best efforts to establish a government of free­
men shall prove abortive, and the American people
will forever live in bondage.
Nor had Norm an B ak er yet found out all the ram ifica­
tions of the power of the A m erican Medical Association.
T h e Netw ork op t h e S pid er's W|Eb 223
Dear Dootori
Des Moines, Iowa.
M
ay 34, 1934
W
e feel that for the beet interests of our profession every
member should be fully Informed as to the reoord of former
Governor Dan W
. Turner who is a candidate for nomination in
the coming June Primary
Prom our personal knowledge and from the records before us,
w
e know that as governor, Mr. Turner was constructive and
right in his attitude and actions on all matters affeoting
the health and medical interests of our citizens
Remember that M
r Turner and his friends wore made to bear
the p olitical brunt of the anti-medical fight waged by
Borman T Baker and the anti-medical opponents of cattle
testing for T B Mr Turner's friends were our friends in
the fight to secure fairer treatment under the Workmen's
Compensation law
In each of the many appointments pertaining to health and
welfare, Governor Turner made choices based upon a sound
health and medical program.
Por these reasons, everything which you can properly do to
promote his candidacy will be a direct contribution to the
cause to which oui profession is dedicated
Waterloo Iowa
Shenandoah Iowa
Washington Iowa
Primghar Iowa
The above is an actual reproduction of a letter sent out by Iowa
organized doctors, in their effort, to control the state election. The fact
that they say “our profession"— “every member" lays suspicion at the
door of the Iowa State Medical Society, an arm of the A.M.A. They seek
medical domination for selfish gain. Voters should always vote against
an organized doctor.
CHAPTER XII
HOW THE MEDICAL OCTOPUS FUNCTIONS
When a group of men, whose "consciences are
calloused and blunted by the teachings of their pro­
fession, and their slavery to their livelihoods, come
into possession of power, it is only humanly natural
that they should seek to broaden and increase this
power, no matter how much the public may suffer
from their successes. The dictators of the American
Medical Association, acting through the servile mem­
bership, has divided its activities into departments,
called Councils. Thus we have—
The Council of State Boards
The Council of Infant Hygiene
The Council of Education and Schools
The Council of Sanitation
The Council of Pure Food
The Council of Registration of Physicians and Surgeons
The Council of Registration of Institutions, of Public and Pri­
vate Relief, Correction, Detention and Residence
The Council of Organic Diseases
The Council of Quarantine
The Council of Health Information
The Council of Immigration
The Council of Labor Conditions >
The Council of Research
The Council of Drugs
The Council of Politics
The Council of Propaganda
The Council of Investigation
The Council of Protection
The Council of Exploitation
The Council of State Boards supplies information
to the State and county doctors as to how to pass
medical laws in favor of the pocketbooks of the
organized allopaths, whether these are against public
224
INDEPENDENT
AND
DRUGLESS
DOCTORS
4----------------- COUNCIL OF |
PERSECUTION I
4----------------- AND Jj
4-----------------
PROSECUTION £
The A. M. A. spider affects every citizen—none escape its bite. It crawls into every government
department, hatches selfish medical laws, traps the mother before childbirth, seizes the newborn child,
poisons its pure bloodstream with its serum sting, sucks the pocketbook empty and buries its mistakes
without objections. ,
226 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
interest or not; and how to aid in killing off the
drugless healers.
The Council of Infant Hygiene instructs the doctor
as how to prey upon the susceptibility of mother love,
to extract money from her and her husband. Not
that this is the admitted purpose: this is what their
activities may be generalized into, and is a fair
statement of their actual achievements.
The Council of Education and Schools instructs
the doctors how to mold the education of the school
children, until they look upon every orthodox doctor
as a god;.and how to place the suave medical propa­
ganda in the school textbooks.
The Council of Sanitation deals with methods of
allopathic doctors in their relationship to the treas­
uries of city, county, state and national government,
and is especially concerned with extracting millions
of dollars from these treasuries, under the guise of
sanitation.
The Council of Pure Food leaps out on the manu­
facturers of all food products, and in a direct or
indirect manner throws- the fear of God into them,
until they have taught the manufacturers their
valuable lesson, that every food product must bear
the label or 0. K. of the A. M. A., which reads—
ACCEPTED, AMERICAN MEDICAL ASS’N, COM­
MITTEE ON FOODS. Naturally, a charge is made
for this service. The financial possibilities in this
are quite large.
The Council of Registration of Physicians and
Surgeons deals with the A. M. A.’s own, and keeps
a close scrutiny on rebels, outlaws, or independent
doctors. In practice, it is not unfair to say that their
H ow th e Medical Octopus F unctions 227
effort apparently is to ruin such medical heretics, by
bringing all kinds of petty charges against them, and
where that fails, by bringing charges concerning their
domestic affairs: and, if the independents are to be
believed, the truth, or falsity of these charges is im­
material to the Council.
The Council of Institutions of Public and Private
Relief, Correction, Detention and Residence has to
do with the controlling of all such State, city or
county institutions of this class which can be saddled
with an allopathic doctor at the taxpayers’ expense;
thus the taxpayers are forced to pay additional and
involuntary charity to the A. M. A. group.
The Council of Organic Diseases has, as one of its
apparent functions, to spread a smoke screen of
propaganda over the abysmal ignorance of the
doctors; they instruct the doctors how to secure ade­
quate payment for their useless or largely useless
drugs, and spread the reports of epidemics, well
based or otherwise.
The Council of Quarantine, if charges against it
are to be believed, is called upon to call a case of
chicken-pox smallpox, and then to have the county
or city health physician, or the State Medical Board,
declare a quarantine, causing the sale of million of
dollars worth of service, poisonous syrups, and
vaccines, with the allopathic doctors heralded in the
papers as the Balto’s of the human world.
The Council of Health Information advises the
health commissioners or the State Board what to do
and how to handle propaganda throughout the
state, to extract dollars from the State treasury, and
to spread false health information and thereby strike
fear and dread into the hearts of the public; to spread
228 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
stories advocating their useless treatments and drugs;
and intentionally to avoid any publicity about their
failures. An instance of this may be shown in the
person of Dr. Steelsmith, formerly Health Commis­
sioner of the Iowa State Board of Health. In Septem­
ber, 1932, he issued a statement to the Iowa press that
cancer was on the decrease in Iowa. He said, “For
several years, in Iowa, there was a steady decrease in
the number of deaths from cancer; but in 1931 there
was a marked decrease. It is hoped that this de­
crease is a result of the information issued by health
authorities, and that the decrease will continue in
the future. Not since 1927 has the cancer death
rate been as low as in 1931. In 1927, it was 110.9
per 100,000; in 1930, 117.0; yet in 1931 it dropped
to 112.3.” Dr. Steelsmith omitted the one vital
health fact which would have explained the decrease,
although he knew it as well as any man in the State.
Re and every doctor knows that cancer has risen, in
the past few years, from the twentieth disease from
the top, to the second from the top—heart disease
being first. He knew that the decrease in the 1931
cancer death rate was due to the fact that the Baker
Cancer Hospital at Muscatine had opened in Decem­
ber, 1929, and had made numerous cures of cancer,
which naturally decreased the death rate. To the
Baker Cancer Hospital should have gone this credit;
Iowa was the only State in the union of which the de­
crease was true.
The Council of Immigration is obviously to keep
fat positions for A. M. A. members, and keep out
independents as much as possible; to regulate every­
thing relating to immigrants that might conceivably
How th e Medical Octopus F unctions 229
place a dollar in the pockets of the doctor members,
such as vaccination.
The Council of Labor Conditions preys upon labor,
as the over-inquisitive school nurses prey upon the
school children. The employers must be frightened
into demanding vaccination of all their employees;
to achieve this, epidemics must be announced, no
matter how slim the evidence on which the announce­
ment is based. Moreover, they distribute literature
and “information” to labor, in the attempt to educate
the workers as to the faults in their health methods,
so that the doctors can fatten on the scant wages of
labor too: just as their Cancer Week propaganda
and their Daily Health Newspaper propaganda en­
able them to earn a reported $82,000,000 yearly from
poor cancer sufferers, for the quack treatments by
operation, radium and X-ray.
The Council of Research is in part to educate the
public in the merits of the medical profession as
servants of disinterested scientific research, to pro­
tect human health, happiness, and life; and, as a
concomitant of this, they have urged the govern­
ment to appropriate millions of dollars to finance
this priceless “ research.” In spite of all this ex­
penditure, they have never given to the world one
single medical discovery of value.
The Council of Drugs is to educate the doctors
how td foist worthless drugs upon the public,; to en­
able them to extract millions of dollars from drug
manufacturers, whom they have scared into the be­
lief that unless their drugs or compounds are endorsed
by the A. M. A., no doctor will use them. The com­
bined efforts of this Council of Drugs, the Council of
Health Information, and all the other Councils, have
230 D octors, Dyn am iters and Gunmen
not been able, to this date, to offer to the public a
cure for an ordinary cold. A Baltimore capitalist,
some years ago, announced by press dispatch that he
stood ready to pay $100,000 to anyone who found a
cure for a common cold. He still has his $100,000.
Tfie Council of Politics is to frighten the more
timid politicians, as well as some of the more
courageous ones, to jump at the crack of its whip;
to become obedient to their mandate.
The Council of Legislation is to make laws favor­
able to the allopathic attitude and practice, against
the public, against drugless healers, against laymen
interested in healing their fellowmen, against all
organizations who seek to take a dollar away from
their prospective patients, in any connection in which
health is involved, even indirectly. To show how
extravagantly far they will attempt to go, in Iowa,
during the past two years, they have attempted to
pass a law on suggestive therapeutics, or healing by
mental suggestion. So embracing were the terms of
this proposed bill, that, if passed, it would have made
it illegal for a child’s mother to give it suggestions
concerning its health, or in any way use the power
of suggestion in the creation of a mental condition.
It would have made illegal the act of a mother, who
rubbed a little camphor or some home preparation
upon a tiny bruised place, and said, to her own child,
“Now, now, don’t cry, it’s feeling fine now, you go
right on to sleep.” By the proposed law, that mother
would have been thereby a lawbreaker: guilty of
using the power of suggestion upon her child.
The Council of Propaganda— we are paraphrasing
one of Norman Baker’s forthright indictments of the
society’s subsidiary organs in this whole section—
How th e Medical Octopus F unctions 231
is to educate the public that black is white. That
your child has smallpox, when it is really chicken-
pox ; that every child should have his tonsils removed,
to improve his health (why not cut his head off at
birth, and be done with it, you faking gouging medi­
cal ignoramus?) ; that the teeth should be extracted,
to stop slow poisoning of the system; that the ap­
pendix serves no useful function, of no value to the
human body, and should come out. . . . Take a long
breath, and proceed: That the gallbladder is nothing
but a trouble-maker, and should be ripped out.
—That the adenoids have no valuable function at
all, and should be carved out. —That the kidney
is always too large, and that a piece should be sliced
off from it. — That the stomach needs an explor­
atory operation, to see if there is an ulcer or a pimple
on the stomach wall. —That the heart and lungs
cannot be removed, or instant death would result,
so that these two organs at least can be left un­
disturbed. — That such-and-such a drug, discovered
by their research department, is good for so-and-so.
—That every doctor should be smart enough to in­
sinuate that he can make a cure, but that he should
stop short of guaranteeing a cure. That their own
figures lie, when they establish that fifty-three per
cent of their diagnoses are incorrect.
All of these, and more, have been put out by the
Council of Propaganda. It has important methods:
The Journal of the American Medical Associa­
tion, a periodical sent to the doctor members to
keep the wool pulled firmly over their own eyes.
Hygeia, a monthly publication distributed free
to many who are not foolish enough to pay the
subscription price; and especially to school
I
232 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
teachers, and libraries: for this is a doctors’
magazine for the laymen. Its major function
is to influence the public in favor of the allo­
paths and their drugs.
A daily or weekly newspaper published by the
American Medical Association, containing all
kinds of articles, propaganda and fake stories on
health, all set up complete, ready to be copied
and included in any newspaper, without requir­
ing the local editors to rewrite. This is sent free
of charge to the newspapers of the United States,
with instructions that any articles appearing
therein may be used by any publisher free of
charge.
Through their political influence, and direct
and indirect threats upon officials, they have
succeeded in influencing the Federal Radio
Commission of the United States against any
station that will dare permit a doctor to give a
health talk over the air, unless it has been cen­
sored and approved by the local County Medical
Society, in advance.
There are countless cases to prove this last point.
Dr. Clark, of Chicago, was excluded from the Chicago
stations, because he gave health talks on how to get
well and keep well by following nature,; that is, by
eating, drinking, and breathing properly. A doctor
in Toledo, another in New York City, another in
Detroit, hundreds of others, have been refused per­
mission to talk over the air, when they refused to
stoop to the censorship of the A. M. A. Further on
the same matter, there is not a radio station in Amer­
ica that will dare accept a paid talk, even if only one
minute long, advertising a book on cancer, even
though the book were the most sensible one ever
written. Baker tested this himself. He wrote to
How th e Medical Octopus F unctions 233
the radio stations of Texas and Iowa, and to the
leading ones throughout the United States, asking
them to give a few minute announcements, to listeners
interested in cancer, that a free forty-eight page,two-
colored' booklet would be sent, on request of those
who wrote in. Money was sent in advance with the
ad. Money and advertisement were both returned,
in every case. Not a radio station in the United
States dared accept the paid announcement.
If you have a cure for cancer, you are not per­
mitted even to pay for notifying the people of Ameri­
ca, in press or over the air, that you have it. The
American Medical Association has so decreed. It
enforces its decree. If there is a hell, may they bum
in it forever, for selling out mankind for the $82,000,-
000 a year that useless and harmful cancer treat­
ments bring them. Judas sold out his master for
thirty pieces of silver; no such tiny price for the
modem organized Judases. Judas went out and
hanged himself. Norman Baker is willing to start a
fund to provide rope for all the modem Judases.
The Council of Investigation is now in charge of
Dr. Arthur J. Cramp, M. D. Thousands have read
between the lines of his writings malice, jealousy;
and ignorance of the things he writes about. One of
his latest efforts is getting out a pamphlet entitled
Cancer Cures and Treatments. The pamphlet ridi­
cules and condemns the doctors who are actually cur­
ing cancer, in view of the fact that the A. M. A. has
never been able to publish the facts and the proof,
with names and addresses, of a single case of cancer
ever cured by their methods, operations, X-ray treat­
ments, and radium treatments. Dr. Cramp naturally
does not publish the blistering facts concerning the
234 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
A. M. A. doctors and the result of their expensive,
harmful, and sometimes fatal “ treatments”. If he
did, out of the thousand calls for a doctor, nine hun­
dred and ninety-nine would be for drugless healers,
to one for his kind.
The Council of Investigation sees to it that the
proper persons are placed in hospitals and other medi­
cal places operated by independent doctors, or where
owned by laymen, not subservient to the A. M. A. ;
and the duties of these persons are to furnish a case,
real or manufactured, by which such doctors and
laymen are haled into court, either to be destroyed
by court action or to be drained financially repeated­
ly, to their financial destruction. They boast of
their power over the courts, and of their political
power, rather incautiously.
Their work includes also investigating and bring­
ing selfish charges against drugless healers and
medicine manufacturers who either refuse to submit
their work or products to the A. M. A., or who have
not paid for its endorsement. A masterpiece of silli­
ness as yet unwritten is a full list of the products
they endorsed, with notes on the worth or lack of
worth of these. Baker has a report concerning a
medicine made of street dust and house dust; the
report expressing a doubt as to whether the manu­
facturer could stabilize the medicine, because the
dust of one home would differ from the dust of
another home in a different locality, and that the
same was true of street dust. Lest you think this is
exaggerated, here is their own report of the Council
on Pharmacy and Chemistry, taken from the Journal
of the American Medical Association for November
7, 1925:
How th e Medical Octopus F unctions 235
HORSE DUNG ALLERGEN-SQUIBB, HOUSE DUST
ALLERGEN-SQUIBB, LE PAGE’S GLUE ALLER­
GEN-SQUIBB AND STREET DUST ALLER­
GEN-SQUIBB NOT ACCEPTABLE
FOR N. N. R.
Report of the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry
The Council has authorized publication of the
following report. W. A. Puckner, Secretary.. . .
As the composition of horse dung; house dust,
glue and street dust is indefinite, it is irrational
to test the hypersensitivity of a patient by
means of a stock preparation; instead, an ex­
tract should be prepared from material which -
is likely to correspond with that to which the
patient is sensitive.
In consideration of their indefinite composi­
tion, the Council finds Horse Dung Allergen-
Squibb, House Dust Allergen-Squibb, Le Page’s
Glue Allergen-Squibb and Street Dust Allergen-
Squibb unacceptable for New and Nonofficial
Remedies.
Three hundred years ago, pigeon's dung and grass­
hopper spit were solemnly used as medicines. The
A. M. A. seems aimed for the good old days of such
filthy medicaments.
Of course, Baker sides with the farmer; and he
would not mind if the farmer could sell his horse
dung (included in the Allergen-Squibb remedy) at
their price, which would come to approximately a
quarter of a million dollars for a load of horse dung,
without side boards. The press accepted the ad of
this priceless product without demur; they rejected
Baker’s free offer (which he wanted to pay for in­
serting), for a copy of a 48-page pamphlet on the
236 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
cure of cancer, to be sent to cancer sufferers: Baker’s
pamphlet was “unethical”, but horse dung is a part
of the ethics of press and organized doctordom. In
fact, I think that their ethics and practice could well
be summed up in this two word phrase.
The Council of Protection aids in controlling the
insurance companies, and is in charge of forming
their own insurance companies, so that they can sell
insurance to their doctor members against that form
of social crime known as medical malpractice. A
gunman or murderer can not get acceptable insurance
against killing his victims, permitting him to go scot-
free if his operation is successful; but a doctor, pro­
tected by this insurance, can kill a patient in the
operating room, and never be brought to financial
justice for it. Some of these malpractice policies
cost as much as $34.75 a year; the Chicago rate is
$13 a year, and this figure controls many localities.
Thus a patient was treated in a Muscatine Clinic by
a Dr. Howe, associated with Dr. Beveridge and other
local doctors in the clinic; the ailment was a small
one on the back, and X-rays were used. Dr. Howe
burned the patient so badly that he suffered for years,
and may carry the results of the malpractice to his
grave. The patient won his suit for damages in the
lower court and in the appellate court as well;
the judgment was for twenty thousand dollars, or
some such sum. Dr. Howe was protected by mal­
practice insurance, and the large verdict and court
costs came from the insurance company’s coffers.
The clinic was forced to dissolve; but there are other
clinics spreading similar healing still in existence.
The Council of Protection also will defend doctor
members tried for abortion and other criminal acts,
How th e Medical Octopus F unctions 237
such as selling narcotics to drug addicts, selling
whiskey illegally, and the like. The idea may
spread to the other criminal classes; they could use
it.
The Council of Exploitation can be used to foster
anything upon the public that will help extract the
reluctant Almighty dollar from the public’s pockets,
and help deposit it in medical jeans. At times the
organized doctordom sells such products directly to
the public; at times it merely endorses, recommends,
advocates, and sells the idea to the public, through
medical journals and newspaper publicity stunts.
Let us take chlorine, as an example. To put it
over, propaganda about impure drinking water was
started. University Research Departments, State
Medical Boards, were called on to issue public death
reports chirping on the matter. The public became
alarmed. The doctors planted the idea that no
drinking water should be used, even if from the best
wells, without purification.
Well, chlorine gas was used to kill the soldiers in
the world war; why shouldn’t the same slow insidious
poison be injected into our drinking water, if this
meant money to its manufacturers, buttressed by an
endorsement from the A. M. A. ? Would it not mean
more millions for the doctors by causing more sick­
ness? Naturally the kept press will not accept con­
tributions calling attention to the harm from chlor­
inated water.
The Council of Exploitation plays the fiddle for
chemical manufacturers, to make, the farmer dance
to their tune. A few years ago, the discovery was
reported of a worm called the “corn borer” which
238 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
was supposed to be doing much harm in the State of
Ohio. Pictures were published in the Ohio papers,
showing vast corn fields absolutely stripped, without
a leaf remaining on the stalks, and the stalks all bent
down and broken, four to five feet high as they were.
The com borer had done it, said the Ohio papers.
Baker met two farmers with proofs of what had
happened: the farmer whose fields had been stripped
and laid low had said accurately, “Corn borers, hell!
The hail did that. We’re not bothered with corn
borers.” But the government appropriated ten mil­
lion dollars to eradicate the “corn borers” from
Ohio, with government roadside guards and pickets
to enforce their quarantine. Thus does the medical
racket function.
Within the last two years the Department of
Agriculture at Ames, Iowa, has emitted propaganda
about grasshoppers jumping over the (Nebraska line
into western Iowa, and devouring the products of the
fields. Private investigators reported no more
grasshoppers in the fields in question than are usual;
but the Department of Agriculture spent fifty
thousand dollars of the taxpayers’ money for a car­
load or more of chemicals to be blown about the
farmers’ fields. And these are two cases out of
hundreds or thousands that have happened and are
happening and will happen, until an aroused public
opinion stops such nefarious operations entirely.
And we are not yet through with organized
doctordom.
CHAPTER XIII
NORMAN BAKER ON TRIAL
Baker was engaged in investigating the inter­
national ramifications of organized doctordom, when
finally the octopus got him cornered in court for the
first time. He had discovered the Canadian Medical
Association, the Mexican Medical Association, the
British Medical Association, and similar groups in
almost all civilized countries, affiliated with the A.
M. A., and at times organized by them. But no one
had gone as far as the local product in wholesale
conquest of the field. Most of all the more indepen­
dent-minded Mexican doctors kick against the pricks
of the slavish subserviency to organized allopathy.
In Canada, the servility is more complete, and em­
braces, as it did and does in America, the radio field
as well. No Canadian station dare broadcast a talk
on health, without previous censorship of the talk by
the Canadian Board of Health. Let the people die,
rather than shake the financial throttle-hold of
organized allopathic doctordom! We have a state
medicine, which is as silly as if we had a state
religion, and as if no talk could be given on a religious
subject without the O. K. of a Catholic priest, or a
Jewish' rabbi, or a Methodist minister, or a Haitian
voodoo papaloi.
Dr. Simmon’s successor as editor of the official
Journal of the association is one Dr. Morris Fishbein.
Little need be said about him. His activities have
been indicated sufficiently to show how unbeneficial
he is to the people as a whole.
239
240 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
We have travelled a long way from Muscatine,
and the moment when shots were fired blindly into
the darkness from Baker’s office at the three men
sent there to kill him, and the bombing the same
night of his radio station K-TNT, followed by the
next day’s headlines, “Gun Fight Climaxes Fight
with Dr. Fishbein.” and “Try to Stoot Up K-TNT;
Attack by Dr. Morris Fishbein.” The press had
somehow leaked the fact to Baker that he was down
on the blacklist of the organized medics; he was on
his guard, from that moment on.
A reporter from the Des Moines Register and
Leader arrived at the Baker Hospital one morning,
and asked to see the superintendent, Mr. Bellows.
It was generally known that the paper was owned by
Gardner Cowles, one of the leading dominating
Republicans in the State, a man later nominated by
President Hoover as a director of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation; it had not been friendly to the
Baker interests, in the past. At the moment the
superintendent was engaged, and the reporter waited
for some time in the reception room. He even copied
the inscription the Hospital had painted over the re­
ception room door: 5
A quack is one who thinks and does things others
can’t do.
Ultimately he was given an interview by the super­
intendent. The reporter said that his mother had
cancer, and that he wanted treatment for her; that
she had cancer, and was unable to come to the
hospital. He was told that if the patient was too
weak to come to the hospital, possibly he could be
given some medicine that would give her enough
strength to make the trip later. The hospital had
Norman B aker on Trial 241
found that weak patients could sometimes be
strengthened enough to make the trip. And so he,
asked if the hospital could guarantee a cure.
Bellows was on the alert at once, as he had been
instructed to be. He said at once that the hospital
never guaranteed a cure in any case. No one but a
fool, he pointed out, would ever guarantee a cure of
anything, even of .a corn on a man’s big toe: on the
way home from treatment, the patient might con­
tract pneumonia and die, and the relatives of the
patient would then no doubt sue the guaranteeing
doctor or hospital, saying that the treatment had
killed the patient. The Baker Hospital did make
one sort of guarantee: and this was that, if it once
pronounced a patient cured, any recurrence of the
disease at the same point on the patient’s body would
be treated free of charge. This was contrary to the
iniquitous code of ethics of the A. M. A. which is
in its favor.
The reporter’s mother, it turned out, did not have
cancer at all; the whole story was an invention, to
make trouble for the hospital if it could be persuaded
~to guarantee a cure. A nasty story followed in the
Des Moines paper. The reporter came back to the
hospital, and asked for their side of the story. Baker
told him it was a waste of time; that they did not
dare publish the facts about his hospital, even if
shown them. He showed the reporter many of his
proofs of cures; and the man finally said, “Baker,
don’t blame us; we know you are curing cancer, but
you know the boss: it’s what"he thinks, not us.’’
At this time, the summer of 1930, Baker was being
subjected to a raking fire of undesirable and untrue
publicity; nothing was too petty or contemptible to
242 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
be said about Baker and his activities. And yet,
this was the summer when the most astonishing
cures were taking place. The cancer treatments
and cures of the hospital were attracting attention
throughout the world; the very fight against Baker
had focussed public attention upon him. And now
occurred the most remarkable demonstration of his
method that had ever taken place. This concerned
the case of Mandus Johnson.
The facts were so remarkable and unprecedented,
that Baker knew that, if he had them done in the
treating rooms of the Baker Hospital ordinarily used
for such treatments, the American Medical Associa­
tion would deny or ridicule them. And so Baker
decided that the public should be the audience. He
announced over K-TNT that, on Monday evening,
May 12,1930, doctors were invited to attend a public
demonstration that cancer was being cured by the
Baker treatments at the Baker Hospital. He an­
nounced that, during the demonstration, the top of
a man’s skull would be removed— a skull affected
with cancer; and that this would be accomplished
without the use of anesthetics, without the loss of a
drop of blood, and without pain.
Thirty-two thousand people attended—twice as
many people as the entire population of Muscatine.
They covered the hillside, which was a hundred and
sixty five feet high; thousands of cars from places
as distant as Kansas City had to be parked in a space
surrounding the radio station a mile long, and ex­
tending along the side streets in each direction for
several blocks. Such a crowd could not possibly
all see the demonstration; some of them had to be
content with listening to the remarks and explan-
Norman B aker on Trial 243
ations broadcast from various points below the
hill’s summit by loudspeakers. After introductory
remarks by Baker, a score of cancer patients from
the Baker Institute, representing every stage of the
disease, from the most malignant on which treatment
had just begun, to definitely cured cases, appeared
on the platform. Wherever possible, these exhibited
the effects of the treatments, and each made a speech
testifying to the remarkable results of the treatment.
The Baker treatment was administered to one pa­
tient. A cancer was lifted from the face of another
patient before the astonished eyes of the vast multi­
tude. Patients exhibited the depressions, where
cancers had been only a day or two before. A pa­
tient told her touching story in tones that could be
plainly heard, although her voice had been restored
from a mere whisper by the treatment only a short
time before. The preparation used to kill external x
cancers was exhibited, and also another preparation
for removing internal cancers; their powerful and
remarkable properties were fully discussed. As a
climax, the entire top portion of the skull of a pa­
tient almost in the last stages of cancer was removed
and held up for inspection by the physician before
the gasping throng, exposing the brains of the entire
top of the patient’s head. It was the most remark­
able demonstration of healing ever held in the history
of man, in any land in the world.
The stories were amazingly similar. Many of the
patients told how they had come to the institute after
they had been given up to die by regular physicians
and clinics; how they faced death utterly without
hope, until they heard of the Baker treatment. They
told how they had come to the institute, how the
32,000
visitors
assembled
at
K-TN
T
in
one
evening
to
see
the
top
of
a
cancer
patient’s
skull
re­
moved
after
only
three
treatments
a
t
the
Baker
Hospital.
Showing the cancerous head of Mandus Johnson, Galesburg,
Illinois, before treatment at the Baker Cancer Hospital. A. M. A.
doctors started to treat him when sore was only size of a bean. In
six years it rapidly spread to this condition.
Showing top layer skull removed after three treatments. This
feat was performed before 32,000 audience at K-TNT. No pain no
blood, no anesthetic or knife used.
Mandus Johnson’s head after being cured at
Baker Hospital. He bared his head as shown, to
the jury in the Federal Court, Davenport, Iowa,
case; Baker vs American Medical Association,
February, 1932.
248 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
treatments had been administered, and of their
phenomenal improvement. They spoke of their
restored health, and their new bright and hopeful
outlook on life. Wherever possible, they exhibited
the very scars, to show health where death had been.
Miracles were not over. Normal Baker stood
forth, holding a small glass vial containing less than
a half teaspoonful of yellow powder. This amount
of medicine, he said, was sufficient to cure five
hundred cases of external cancer. To prove that,
while this powder would kill cancerous tissue, it was
harmless to normal tissue, was not poisonous, and
did not contain potash, sulphuric acid or other burn­
ing preparations, he swallowed some of the powder.
He then drew from his pocket a four-ounce bottle
of black-colored medicine used at the institute to
cure internal cancer, and to prove its harmlessness
to the human system he swallowed the entire contents
of the bottle.
Needless to say, the vast crowd was convinced.
The meeting turned into an ovation to this living
human savior, who could heal those that were sick,
and restore sight to the blind, and cure the halt and
the lame. Intense indignation was expressed at the
infamous fight waged by the medical trust against
Baker and his institution. Baker had proved his
case before the world, if not before the secret con­
claves of the greedy grasping allopathic doctors.
Baker, just before the Mandus Johnson demonstra­
tion, had invited any doctor in the audience, of the
drugging or the drugless school, to come up on the
platform, examine the patient’s head before the top
skull bone was removed, and watch the demonstra­
tion throughout. Baker’s secret spotters, circulating
Norman B aker on Triai* 249
throughout the crowd, had already reported at least
twelve doctors in the audience directly or indirectly
connected with the Iowa State Medical College, and
dozens of other doctors, local and from other cities.
Not one of these came to the platform. One doctor
alone came, a drugless healer: and he was convinced.
Today, at this writing, three and a half years after
' the demonstration, Mandus Johnson is still alive and
healthy, and working daily. A New Testament
could be based upon this one demonstration.
The next day, the medical lies started. Mandus
Johnson had been killed during the demonstration:
this was one story. Another was that a fake plaster-
of-Paris skull had been used. Baker had prepared
even for this; he had had Johnson sit on the edge of
the platform close to the audience, and had them pass
by for inspection of his bowed head. Hundreds
did. Many of these fainted. Yet so did the medi­
cal lie persist, that Baker felt it necessary to hold
another gathering, a few weeks after the first; and at
this, he promised, Mandus Johnson would talk to the
crowd, and show his head, almost healed completely.
Fifty thousand people came. After all,' a human
savior is not too common, and the world hungers to
learn of and see with its own eyes actual miracles.
Fifty thousand people . . . . The huge site of K-TNT
was not large enough to accommodate this crowd.
The meeting was held at Weed Park, in Muscatine,
and remote control devices were placed to broadcast
the program. Governor Hammill, of Iowa, was
broadminded enough to attend the meeting, and
address the gathered thousands. At once the, press
started a campaign to defeat Hammill for reelection:
their slogan was, “Governor Hammill visits Baker,
250 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
the cancer quack . . . The outrageous campaign
won; Hammill was defeated, and Turner, another
Republican, took his place. In 1932 Baker had the
thrill of helping defeat Turner for reelection, when
Baker himself ran on the Farjner-Labor ticket in
opposition to Turner for Governor.
No one who ever attended that meeting will ever
forget a detail of it. The meeting was announced
for two-thirty in the afternoon; by ten in the morning,
thousands of persons were already gathered in the
park. After the governor’s speech, Baker and the
physician attending received ovations almost hysteric.
Thirty patients who were being cured or had been
cured appeared one by one before the crowd. It
surged closer and closer, became more and more
densely packed. Many were overcome, and had to
be carried fainting or unnerved from the crowd.
The institute physicians had their hands full attend­
ing to these. The demonstration was almost a replica
of the first, with actual cancers lifted out with
tweezers, exhibited to the crowd, and the patients
finally shown again, to establish that no healthy
tissue had been harmed. And then came the
speeches of the cured patients; and all testified to no
recurrence, although in some cases several years had
elapsed since the cure. See the July, 1930, TNT for
the names and addresses and case histories of these
cures. Last came Mandus Johnson himself. He
was still alive, though with no full skull to cover his
brain: alive and in good health. Since that first
demonstration, in which the brain itself had been
exposed to the gaze of thirty-two thousand people,
remarkable improvement had taken place. The
cancerous growths had all disappeared, and nature
Nobman B aker on Trial 251
had provided a membrane which covered the brain,
and served as a protection to it. The ovation to
Baker at the end was tremendous, and is beyond the
power of words. Here was a man who was actually
saving mankind against this hideous scourge : a living
human savior.
There is always a Judas in such a picture. In this
picture, there were far more than one.
On May 13, 1930, just one day after Baker’s
glorious first demonstration, the enemies struck.
United against him were the American Medical
Association; the Iowa State Medical Society; the
Muscatine County Medical Association; Dr. Beve­
ridge and Dr. Howe, the ringleaders in things medical
in Muscatine ; the Iowa Public Utilities Association ;
John Fletcher, Attorney General of Iowa; Gerald
Blake, Assistant Attorney General ; some inapprecia-
tive business men of Muscatine ; Dr. Morris Fishbein,
the Elisha of the A. M. A., who wore the frayed
mantle of Dr. George Simmons, the rather spotted
Elijah of the allied medical autocracy; the Iowa
State Medical Board; Dr. D. S. Steelsmith, State
Health Commissioner; Dr. C. T. Lesân, of Mt. Ayr,
Iowa; Dr. W. A. Seidler of Jamaison, Iowa; Dr. H.
W. Plummer of Lime Springs, Iowa ; Dr. J. Lowry of
Fort Dodge, Iowa—these five constituting the Iowa
Health Board ; Governor Dan Turner of Iowa ; Clyde
Rabadeaux, publisher of thé Muscatine Journal; Mr.
Adler, of the Lee syndicate of newspapers, from
Davenport; the Muscatine Chamber of Commerce,
once semi-progressive, but now allied against
progress; and numerous others. These will be
remembered by the future only because they were
small and short-sighted enough to fight Norman
252 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Baker and his magnificent fight in man’s behalf
against cancer. Only one thing makes us remember
Judas: we do not forget this.
Some among this group, especially the organized
doctors, got together, after they had fired their first
barrage in the newspapers and the “health” maga­
zines, stating that Baker was a cancer fake and a
quack, who should be in jail for misleading cancer
patients to a belief that they would be cured, and
taking their money for this, when as a matter of fact
—so the lies ran— Baker did not cure cancer. This
group influenced the State’s legal machinery, and on
May 13, 1930, just one day after the triumph of the
open-air treatment of Mandus Johnson, they brought
action before Judge A. P. Barker, in the District
Court at Muscatine, asking for a temporary injunc­
tion, on the charge that Norman Baker was practic­
ing medicine and surgery without a license.
The charge is insanely absurd, on its face! Here
was a layman who had located and perfected a cure
for cancer: what in God’s name is the fault in that?
Here was a layman who owned and operated a hospi­
tal, of course using accredited doctors for his medical
and surgical work: Bernarr Macfadden, a layman,
has his hospital and health sanitarium in Danville.
New York; I am informed that Henry Ford owns a
hospital in Dearborn; Michigan; a million men
wealthy or rich, could own hospitals, properly ad­
ministered by legally qualified and accredited doc­
tors, without either infringing on the law or doing
aught but good to mankind. Yet this was the
trumpery trumped-up charge levelled against Baker
by the envious opposition.
Norman B aker on Trial 253
T-he first attempt failed. The court refused to
grant the temporary injunction. They persisted.
They brought a similar action asking for a permanent
injunction, stating that Baker practiced medicine and
surgery in the State of Iowa without a license. This
was a shameful and outrageous proceeding. By
this time, Norman Baker was too well known to have
such a silly charge levelled against him. The first
attempt was filed the day after thirty-two thousand
people saw the magnificent demonstration of his
healing of cancer: but ,he had not been the physician
or surgeon, he had had licensed physicians and
surgeons to do this part of the work. He merely
owned the hospital, and had perfected the cure.
No law could ban either, unless it were an outrageous
attack on fairness and decency; and no such law was
on the Iowa statute books. In the press, for weeks,
they had been vilifying Baker as a quack, as a faker,
as a charlatan, as one who could not cure cancer, as
one who obtained money under false pretenses. Why
did they not charge him outright with any of these
things? Because by now they knew that they were
all lies, which they could not establish in court. Their
secret investigators, the nurses they had bribed to
spy for them, had reported too amply to them that
Baker was curing cancer. They were desperate to
close the hospital, and deflect to their greedy pockets
the money it brought in: money paid Baker to cure
cancer, money they wanted paid to them to coddle
it or increase it and make it worse. They were
desperate to. furnish their servile press with materials
for new headlines, Baker, Cancer Quack, Arrested;
or Baker, the Cancer Quack, Enjoined. “Practiced
medicine and surgery without a license?” They
254 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
knew it was a lie out of the whole cloth! They knew,
none better, that Baker had never treated a person
in his life; that he had never prescribed for a person
in his life; that he had never touched a person with
a knife in his life.
The battle in court lasted nine days. Judge Ely
was the trial judge, in the case asking for the per­
manent injunction, and, after hearing the evidence
on both sides, he gave it as his opinion that Norman
Baker was not guilty of practicing medicine and
surgery in the State of Iowa without a license. In
truth and fairness, he could have done nothing else.
Members of the organized State medicos openly
boasted that they would get Baker in the Supreme
Court. This implication was an egregious insult to
the bench of Iowa, to the Supreme Court and every
member of it. That is, it would have been an in­
sult, if it were untrue: if true, it was a scandal. And
it was true. In due time the Supreme Court of Iowa
rendered its decision, reversing the lower court. In
sum and substance the decision stated that, while it
was true that the evidence did not show that Norman
Baker had ever treated a patient, or prescribed for
him, yet the evidence did show that he owned the
hospital and the equipment, knew the ingredients of
the medicines used, and employed physicians licensed
by Iowa to do the treating; yet, as a layman could not
operate a hospital by employing licensed physicians,
he was guilty of practicing medicine in the State of
Iowa without a license.
Baker suffered enough, during the two hearings.
When he had started the Baker Hospital, in De­
cember, 1929, he had employed a Dr. Arey of Musca­
tine. At this time, Baker states, the doctor had only
Norman B aker on Trial 255
a small practice; and he eagerly accepted the posi­
tion as Chief Medical Doctor of the new hospital.
There were about twenty patients; Dr. Arey was the
only doctor. He said he was not much interested in
a straight salary, but was keenly interested in a
sharing proposition: a percentage, or a set price, for
each case. Baker reminded him of the enmity he
would encounter from the Muscatine County Medi­
cal Society doctors; he said that he did not give a
damn for them, that he was looking out for himself,
and that, if he took the job, he would give Baker the
kind of service he desired that was faithful and
courageous. The price was agreed upon, something
in the neighborhood of fifteen dollars a month for
each patient under his care. In a few weeks his
salary, from the rapidly growing number of patients,
totalled over a thousand dollars.
Baker had had witnesses for all these interviews
with Dr. Arey. The doctor had agreed to become
Chief Doctor, examining, diagnosing, and treating
the patients; and that, in the case of cancer patients,
he would prescribe and administer the Baker cancer
treatments, and the other Baker treatments that
were offered at the hospital. Baker reminded him
that these treatments were not recognized by the A.
M. A., and that a member of the A. M. A. became
inethical if he prescribed unrecognized treatments.
The doctor said he would not hesitate to prescribe
and administer any treatment, if he was convinced
that it would do the patient good. Baker compli­
mented him upon his broadmindedness, and gave him
the position. Later the doctor became a member of
the County Medical Society, and thus came under
the benefits of the County Health Unit plan, already
256 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
explained, which gave the doctors of the county
some four or five thousand dollars annually for treat­
ing patients on the county poor farm.
During the trial of the application for the per­
manent injunction, Dr Arey took the stand against
Baker, at the behest of the American Medical Associa­
tion. Baker had one small grim satisfaction: when
Dr. Arey would drive to the courthouse to testify,
Baker would invariably say, “There goes Doc Arey
in the new car I bought for him.” Not that Baker
had personally made him a gift of it; but the money
the doctor had made out of a few weeks at the Baker
Hospital had more than paid for it. Dr. Arey, Baker
insisted, testified directly contrary to the truth, re­
garding what his services were at the Baker Hospital.
Baker insisted hotly, after the testimony was over,
that much of it had been lies; he defied and still
defies anyone to sue him for libel on this. For then
Baker could produce his own witnesses as to the
actual agreement with Dr. Arey, which would tend to
establish that Dr. Arey was a perjurer, and might
even reopen the old case against the hospital.
But the doctor had married into some money, and
his main financial struggles were over. During Dr.
Arey’s cross-examination, Baker sat at the side of
Herbert Thompson, one of his attorneys, who was
conducting the cross-examination. It was well
known that doctor and the lawyer were close friends;
it was said that Dr. Arey was Thompson’s family
doctor. He had .also been Baker’s family doctor.
Baker suspected that things were not going right,
when Thompson was selected ahead of Hanley or
Devitt, his other attorneys, to do the cross-questioning.
It was rumored that Dr. Arey had not wanted to be
Norman B aker on Trial 257
a witness at all in the case ; and that, if he did take
the stand, somehow he would be handled with silk
gloves during his inquisition. Baker scoffed at
these rumors. But when he asked Thompson to ask
certain questions of Dr. Arey, his attorney showed
great nervousness, and tried to make Baker leave him
alone. Finally he whispered to Baker, “Let’s let
him go at that. He hasn’t hurt us by his testimony.”
Baker told Thompson, “You certainly have the wrong
impression of his testimony. He has literally
crucified us, by lying about his services at the hospi­
tal.”
The witness was dismissed. Then came the argu­
ment, in the Grand Jury room, as to whether or not
Baker should take the stand to counteract Dr. Arey’s
testimony. It was generally understood that the
A. M. A. wanted knowledge of thé secret formula
of his cancer treatment; Baker asked his attorneys
whether or not, if he took the stand, the State’s
attorney could force him to answer this question:
“What are the ingredients used in your cancer medi­
cine?” Hanley and Devitt argued that the other
side could not force Baker to reveal a trade secrel;
Thompson was energetically opposed to Baker’s
taking the stand, and the two other attorneys
couldn’t influence him to consent. This discord
kept Baker off the stand in his own defense.
The case was closed, and the judge adjourned
court before announcing his decision, which he held
up for some days. The day after the matter was
submitted to him, Herbert Thompson and Ralph
Thompson, of Thompson and Thompson, and Charles
Hanley, all of Baker’s attorneys in the case, called
upon Baker and asked payment of their attorney
258 Doqtors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
fees. These men had been schoolboy friends of
Baker’s ; certainly such a demand was, to put it mild­
ly, premature: especially as the decision had not even
been rendered. Baker had never failed to pay a
bill to any of them before; he was known to be fi­
nancially able to pay. Yet Herbert Thompson spoke
first, and said in effect, “Well, Norman, it’s all over
now, and we came to talk to you about our fees. You
know this has been a very important and sensational
trial. We have talked the matter over among oui'-
selves, and believe that eighteen thousand would be
about right.”
Baker, tired and nervous from the nine days’
grind of the trial, almost collapsed. He flashed back,
“Important trial, hell! You must think this trial
has been advertised throughout the world. Who do
you think you are, Clarence Darrow? You’ll wait
a hell of a long time before you’ll get that sum of
money from me. You’d better get together again,
and all of you come down to earth, when you come
back to talk to me.” Baker exploded to his friends:
“They must have thought this was a chance to pull
my leg, and get enough to pay all their debts—which
they haven’t paid to this day!” Devitt alone handed
in a reasonable bill; Baker paid this, without demur.
After further talk over a number of days, Baker, out
of patience, told them that he was through talking
with them, and they would have to deal with him
thereafter through a third party. A go-between
named Randall was selected, and the bill was paid
promptly, once it was placed at a reasonable figure.
And this ended the relationship between Baker
and the firm of Thompson and Thompson, who had
represented him in legal matters for fifteen years.
Norman B aker on Trial 259
Hanley showed himself more reasonable throughout,
and Baker used him repeatedly afterwards; while
Devitt is one of his attorneys, to this day.
There were three other defendants included in the
application, besides Baker, one of them being one
Harry Hoxsey, a trusted subordinate who had become
disloyal. Baker agreed to, and did pay all the at­
torney fees for the three other defendants. While
Baker was exempted from the final decision of the
trial court, the other three defendants, on the
strength of Dr. Arey’s testimony, were found guilty,
and were enjoined from the further practice of medi­
cine or surgery without a license in the State of Iowa.
Had Baker been allowed to take the stand and rebut
Dr. Arey’s testimony, his words might have pre­
vented even this partial injunction, as he would have
shown that these three worked only under the direc­
tion of Dr. Arey. Or, at least, this applied to Mrs.
Mary Turner and Charles Gearing; the other de­
fendant, Hoxsey, as was later discovered, had treated
without guidance from Dr. Arey.
A few days before the trial, this fourth defendant,
Harry Hoxsey, announced that he would not be
represented by the attorneys Baker was furnishing,
and hired his own lawyer, one Howard Bartlett.
When the decision was announced, the court costs,
of about two thousand dollars, were saddled on
Baker, even though he had been held not guilty. He
had to pay them. Meanwhile, the organized Iowa
doctors had forced the State to spend about ten
thousand dollars of the taxpayers’ money in the
ineffective attempt to throttle the independent heal­
er of cancer. And the decision of the Supreme
Court had enjoined Baker from practicing medicine
An
ordinary
breast
cancer
case
before
Baker
After
using
Baker's
cancer
treatment.
Notice
treatment.
Note
expression
of
sadness.
difference
of
expression.
Norman B aker on T rial 261
or surgery without a license, which meant, in effect,
from owning a hospital administered by licensed
doctors. The A. M. A. must have gloated at the
prospect of the hospital’s being closed, and the
hundreds of patients in the process of being cured
from cancer driven forth, to suffer the sterile ortho­
dox treatments of operations, X-rays, and radium.
They said they would close the Baker Hospital; and,
by God, they had done it!
They gloated too soon. The Baker Hospital did
not close. Baker is a hard man to stop: his hospital
is open and doing a thriving business today. There
was a way out of the legal dilemma, and he was
quick to see it and act on it. He leased the hospital
to Dr. W. W. Potter on a monthly rental plan, over
a period of two years. At the time of the lease, the
hospital had hundreds of patients under treatment,
the fees aggregating many times the figure named in
the agreement of the lease; thus it was an excellent
business proposition for Dr. Potter. The contract of
the lease was at once recorded legally in the Court­
house at Muscatine. Dr. Potter agreed to use the same
name for the hospital, the Baker Hospital; he himself
demanded this, as well, in order to take advantage
of the past publicity, since the newspaper attacks on
Baker had made the hospital internationally known.
He agreed, further, to purchase the Baker cancer
medicines from one of Baker’s companies. As he
was a licensed Iowa pharmacist, he was to superin­
tend the making of the medicines, and in every way
feature the Baker cancer treatments, because of
their astounding past success.
Baker was now out of the hospital business. Dr.
Potter went to work operating the hospital success-
262 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
fully and profitably by retaining the efficient staff
Baker had assembled. The average cost per patient,
per week, including board, medicines, nursing and
all doctor’s fees, with no extra charge for medical
extras, has always been very reasonable, from the
start, down to the present day. The average rate
was perhaps the cheapest of any hospital in the
United States. On the day of arrival, each patient
was examined. There was no charge for this. The
fee for a complete physical examination, including
urine tests and the like, was only ten dollars; and
this was refunded on the payment of the first week’s
bill: it was merely a method of protection against
curiosity seekers, who would have swamped the hos­
pital if such a complete examination was given free.
Matters, on the surface at least, progressed well
at the hospital, under the new regime. The under­
cover efforts of the medical octopus, of course, did
not cease; nor the flood of newspaper and magazine
stories repeating the previous untrue charges against
Baker. And then, angered by the repeated per­
secution, came the day when Baker filed his suit -for
half a million dollars against the American Medical
Association; and this at once put an effective soft
pedal on the libelous articles. The filing of his suit
for one hundred thousand dollars, for conspiracy,
against the American Medical Association, the Iowa
State Medical Society, and the Muscatine County
Medical Society, went further in toning down the
virulence of their attacks. As long as Baker re­
mained in the State of Iowa, and was master of the
fort, no further legal proceedings were instituted
against him by the organized medics. For it was a
Norman B aker on T rial 263
fort, by now, with machine guns, revolvers, rifles, and
tear-gas bombs.
Worst of all, at this time the Iowa State Medical
Society had about three thousand dollars in its
treasury; and the suit for a hundred thousand dollars
damages did not add to their piece of mind. It was
sure to mean a retainer of a couple of thousand
dollars for their Iowa City attorney. And this possi­
bly meant an assessment on each doctor in the State,
due to the actions of their layman manager, Vernon
D. Blank.
Dr. Potter was not a specialist in cancer and kept
his hospital staff of doctors, nurses, attendants and
employees practically intact, as it had been under
Baker’s ownership. All of these were experienced;
and clearly a change of too many faces would disturb
the patients, and cause a lack of confidence in the
new ownership, ft. A. Bellows, a former chain-store
manager, had become superintendent of all the Baker
enterprises; and since the opening of the hospital in
1929 he had acted as its manager. He had now had
over a year’s experience' in hospital management,
understood the business side of it, and knew the
former patient's. Dr. Potter wanted to keep him on
as manager; but Baker still needed him to superin­
tend the other enterprises. A compromise was
reached, by which he gave half of his time to the
hospital, and half to the other enterprises, and re­
ceived half his weekly salary from each.
And, after a few weeks under this new owner­
ship, discontent began to creep into the hospital
organization. Baker had of course promised the
most cordial cooperation and assistance, without
remuneration, in the running of the hospital: he
264 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
wanted it to continue a success, for the mere good
of humanity. And now Baker, who had constant
sources of information as to the inside workings of
the institution, began to learn of the discord there;
But there are other matters to be taken up, to keep
the record chronologically accurate, before we come
to what he did in this instance.
Things were not going well in Muscatine. While
a small clique was devoting its energies to fighting
the most valuable citizen the town had, Norman
Baker, the place was a nest of bootleggers and other
lawbreakers; administration of welfare matters was
a crying disgrace; note shavers, usurers, makers ef
illegal contracts, were victimizing the farmers. The
very doctors who were bending their every effort to
stop Baker’s actual benefiting of humanity were
forgetful of medical matters that high-souled doctors
would have fought to a finish: such as the neglected
report of the Council of Pharmacy and Chemistry of
the A. M. A., condemning certain claims made by
manufacturers of Mercurochrome; such as the re­
port of the A. M. A.,
It is realized that the antiseptic virtues of Lis-
terine are so infinitesimal in comparison with
better antiseptics, as to invalidate even modest
claims made for it;
such statement of several writers in the official
Journal of the association that eight grams of
potassium chlorate were sufficient to cause death,
while Pebeco toothpaste contains thirty grams of
the poison in each two and one half tube; such as
the old and neglected report of the A. M. A. that—
the advertisement and the sale to the laity of
Norman B aker on T rial 265
such a nostrum as Sal Hepatica can only increase
these evil results,
that is, constipation and neurasthenia.Their medical
arithmetic was bared by Dr. William A. Rohlf, presi­
dent-elect of the Iowa State Medical Society, when
he prefaced his inaugural address,,
Let us forget for one moment the idealistic and
altruistic phase of our relationship to humanity,
and consider the financial side in relation to pre­
ventative medicine.
He established, by figures of the head of the State
Health Board, that the medical income from treating
the State’s three thousand diphtheria patients, over
a five year period, came to sixty thousand dollars a
year; while the medical income from injecting anti­
diphtheria serum into the 44,000 babies born annual­
ly in the state would be $120,000, or twice as much!
In other words, vaccination against diphtheria
doubled the doctors’ incomes. Things like this Baker
had learned to expect; but they still shocked him.
He looked back at that trial before Judge Ely, and
smiled in sour resignation. The prosecution had
brought in at least seven witnesses, to damage Baker’s
case, who had nevertheless all sworn that they had
been cured of cancer at his hospital! Eight wit­
nesses for the defense testified they had been cured
of cancer or some other malignant disease at the
same hospital. In spite of that, the Supreme Court
had enjoined him. Well, this was how a man’s fight
to save his fellow men was adjudged by the poison­
ous forces of social conservatism.
He shook his head, as he thought of another
malodorous fact he had discovered: and that was,
the unreliability of men who professed loyalty, and
266 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
did not have it in their souls. Take Harry Hoxsey,
for instance. Affable, likeable—no doubt about
these: but as reliable as a veering wind. Baker had
employed him, at two hundred and fifty dollars a
week. Moreover, when he came to Muscatine from
Girard, Illinois, Baker had endorsed his five thousand
dollar note at the American Savings Bank of Musca­
tine, so that he could pay his back debts and enter
Baker’s employment with clean hands. He brought
his wife and child to Muscatine; and Baker gave him
four thousand dollars or more to buy a home, in which
his wife still lives. While Baker was attending one
of the radio hearings in Washington, Hoxsey left the
hospital. Before Baker had departed, he had told
Hoxsey that some of the things he was doing were
disgracing the hospital, and they must be stopped
or Baker would have to discharge him.
Hoxsey mingled among the patients, and told
many things, directly and indirectly, to influence
them against his employer. During Baker’s absence
from Muscatine, Hoxsey rented a building about two
hundred feet from the Baker Hospital, and opened a
hospital of his own. Some twenty or more patients
listened to his story, and went with him. His hospi­
tal soon closed— Hoxsey slipped! The patients who
had deserted the parent hospital and went to Hox­
sey’s soon saw their mistake. Some left it; others
died; others became paralized. Some who left his
hospital were ashamed to return to the Baker Hos­
pital and went home to die; others returned to com­
plete their cures, and recovered. From Muscatine
Hoxsey went to Detroit, and had some trouble with
the authorities there. He left a Detroit doctor hold­
ing the sack on a small clinic the two of them were
Norman B aker on T rial 267
operating jointly there; there were rumors that Hox-
sey left to avoid a jail sentence. He had left his wife
and child in Muscatine; later, the wife secured a
divorce. From Detroit he journeyed to Girard, or
elsewhere in southern Illinois, to try another venture
curing cancer; but he did not last long at this. He
was next reported in Wheeling, West Virginia, where
he influenced some doctors to join him. Reports
came that he had left this city in a hurry too, leaving
hotel bills unpaid; while creditors of the clinic had
closed it. He was next heard of in Atlantic City,
where he is said to be still endeavoring to influence
the mayor, the owners of a radio station, and the
owners of the Brigantine Hotel on lonely Brigantine
Beach, to open another clinic. Last reports of him
do not speak of his success. Perhaps the people of
Atlantic City looked into his past record, and found
too much. His technique of salesman’s approach
was to place a can of queer looking powder in a secure
place, in sight of the prospect, saying that in case of
his death there was enough powder to cure a million
cases of cancer. Baker once overheard this price­
less remark. One of these cans is tucked away, even
today, in Wheeling; a Dr. Cox, of Pittsburg, is curator
of another, though this doctor and his associates were
not taken in by the astute promoter.
Altogether, Hoxsey has sued Baker for $81,000
for slander; the case was thrown out of court. Her­
bert Thompson and Ralph Thompson, formerly
Baker’s attorneys acted as his attorneys. A. Mr. J
H. Kammerer who Baker previously assailed as men­
tioned in a woman case, joined the Thompsons. This
is not all of the malodorous record. The States At­
torney at Lansing, Michigan, the Attorney General
268 Doctors, Dyn a m iters and Gunmen
at Springfield, Illinois, can supplement the record, if
any are interested. Meanwhile, Baker had paid the
five thousand dollar note of Hoxsey’s that he had en­
dorsed; and then sued Hoxsey and secured judgment
on it for this amount. His own private opinion is
that this judgment is not worth a plugged dime.
Meanwhile, K-TNT was still functioning nobly.
Six A. M. to five and 7 :30 P. M., and such after mid­
night hours as he could squeeze in; with Norman
Baker opening the day in the dawn hours, and again
taking the time from noon to one-thirty, and with
musical, religious, variety, news, market reports, farm
flashes, valuable recipes, the mailbag, and other
features that endeared the station to every listener.
In addition to the regular performers, Jim the canary,
had his place of honor, and chirped in so regularly
that it became called the canary station. Well, he
had that much to show for his efforts, anyhow. And
the Calliaphones, and the thousand varieties of
merchandise, better and cheaper than sold by
others. And the hospital still running, still over his
name.
CHAPTER XIV
THE MIDWEST FREE PRESS
And this was the hectic end of 1930 ; and it was
about this time that Norman Baker’s attack on the
aluminum trust, in his magazine TNT, was followed
by their closing down on the newsstand sales of his
magazine, and turning it into a deficit, instead of a
source of profit. He was seeing more and more the
need of a widely circulated periodical, to supplement
his vigorous words over K-TNT. He was finding a
thousand facts which cried aloud for public
knowledge: and ever the truth-distorting medical
organization, and the servile lickspittle press, would
do their utmost to keep these facts from the public.
Baker discovered the tie-up between the sub­
serviency of press and even newsstand owners to
the aluminum trust, and the dreadful spread of can­
cer, which had caused it to move up from twentieth
on the list, in mortality statistics twenty years ago,
to second on the list today. It is no accident that
Docket 540 of the Federal Trade Commission in­
vestigation of the aluminum interests, is reported
out of print, and unobtainable by those interested,
If every reader of this book will at once write to his
federal Senator and his Congressman, demandingthat
the book be reprinted for public distribution, this will
start a movement that should again cause the scari­
fying book to be again available to thè public. About
1911 dates the beginning of the rise in the cancer
death rate. 1911 also dates the introduction of
269
270 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
aluminum cooking utensils into general use. The
connection is not fortuitous, but actual. .
Cancer, then, had as one of its strongly aggravating
causes the spread of the use of aluminum ware in
kitchens. The public should know this, for its own
protection. , The newspapers can not be persuaded,
by any means, to run such information, so tense is
the hold the aluminum trust has upon him. Alumi­
num Poisoning, by Dr. Charles T. Betts, covers the
whole ground, and is sponsored by the Anti-Cancer
Club of America; if you cannot get a copy anywhere
else, a dollar and a half sent to Norman Baker will
secure one for you. If that is direct advertising,
make the most of it.
Baker, at least, had not hesitated about going
right after aluminum poisoning with both fists, in his
magazine TNT, and he now had to pay the price for
his courage, in the loss of all the newsstand circula­
tion on which the magazine had relied for support.
Worst of all, a number of subscribers had paid in
advance, and something must be done about these
subscriptions. And so Baker suddenly decided to
publish a tabloid weekly, the Midwest Free Press.
He wrote to his subscribers, and asked their per­
mission to send the weekly periodical to them instead
of the monthly; and all accepted. Baker decided
that he would publish a weekly which included the
true stories that the other papers, for one reason or
another, did not dare to print. He also used in his
weekly several'magazine expose articles each week;
so that the subscribers received, not a mere news­
paper to throw away after a cursory five minutes
reading, but a full week’s reading. And you may
be certain that the new weekly did not go light on
Th e Midwest F ree P ress 271
the aluminum trust, which had ended its predecessor,
the monthly magazine TNT; it, and the magazine
Plain Talk in Washington, D. C., had much to do
with the ultimate removal of Andrew Mellon, the
aluminum overlord, from the Treasury Department,
and having him shipped over instead to be ambassa­
dor in England. Of course, this fight had added one
powerful enemy, the aluminum interests, to the radio
station K-TNT, “Know The Naked Truth”.
Meanwhile, the people of Muscatine were growing
more and more angered against the Muscatine
Journal, for its general suppression of the truth. The
overlord of this paper, which belonged to the Lee
Syndicate, was one Adler, of Davenport, who owned
both the Republican and the Democratic papers
there, and forced merchants to advertise in both his
papers or none. Baker determined to open a K-TNT,
retail store in Davenport, Adler's home fortress; he
went to Adler with cash in advance, for the insertion
of a half page ad in his papers, merely announcing
the opening of the new store. So bitter was the
enmity of this group of papers to Baker, that the
advertisement was refused. He thought he had
Baker by the throat, since these were the only papers
in Davenport. Instead, Baker announced over
K-TNT, thirty miles away, the opening of his store;
and over ten thousand people passed the front door
of the new store, on its opening day, as a result of this
announcement. So great were the crowds inside,-
that the clerks who made sales at either end of the
store lost so much time, getting to the cash register
in the center of the store, that several thousand
dollars' worth of sales were lost this way, or, the
opening day. The receipts for the opening of the
272 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
small store, not more than twenty feet wide by sixty,
were in the thousands of dollars. Baker himself, in
the evening, shook hands with over two thousand
people at the front doors. The store remained in
operation until the radio trust pushed K-TNT off the
air, when it had to close.
The Muscatine Journal began to carry streaming
headlines, attacking K-TNT and Norman Baker.
Thousands of people resented this, and many of these
cancelled their subscriptions to the local Lee Syndi­
cate paper, urging Baker to start his own daily news­
paper. This caused him, in 1930, to incorporate the
Progressive Publishing Company of Muscatine. He
purchased a splendid location in the heart of the
city, and built a three story building, which he him­
self designed, and which is today one of the most
beautiful buildings in the city. It was equipped with
the latest word in equipment, and the moment of
bringing the first issue off the press came closer and
closer. Baker at this time was touring through
Kentucky, Tennessee, and the near South up to
Washington: and suddenly a brilliant idea occurred
to him. Without hesitation, he called Long Distance
from his hotel room, and asked to be connected with
President Hoover, in the White House. Then and
there he arranged for Hoover to press a golden key in
the White House, and set in motion the large press in
his printing office in Muscatine, when the first edition
of the paper was published.
Baker returned to Muscatine, and announced over
K-TNT that the large presses would start to roll off
the first edition of his paper at 2 :30 P. M., after the
President himself had pressed his golden key in the
White House, and thus sent the current over tele-
T h e Midwest F ree P ress 273
graph lines to a small electrical relay in the press
room of the unborn daily, which in turn would throw
on the current for starting the motors of the big
press. He invited everyone to visit the Midwest
Free Press Building, to watch the big presses begin to
roll when the President pushed the button, which
would be 3:30 P. M. Muscatine time. Newspapers
over the United States simply went rabid. Only
when Hoover actually started it did they admit that
the announcement had been fulfilled. Worst of all,
Baker claimed and proved that he had more than
six thousand bona fida subscribers, before the paper
was ever issued. He began with more than the Mus­
catine Journal had been able to build up, in seventy
years.
And now the Journal entered into a circulation,
race with the Free Press. Baker had not much
money left, after buying the land, erecting his build­
ing, buying the equipment, and the rest; the Lee
Syndicate was said to have resources of more than a
million. Promptly Baker bega'n printing full page
advertisements, challenging the Journal to let a com­
mittee of business men audit both circulations, and
give the truth to the advertisers of Muscatine. The
Journal wisely refused to accept, knowing its circul-
lation was far lower.
Baker called the Audit Bureau of Circulation of
Chicago to task for a breach of their ethics; and,
since the Journal belonged to a chain which helped
support the ABC in a wholesale way, the Free Press
was discriminated against and Baker dropped from
the association. Baker makes no bones of saying
that he is sure that many of their audits are padded,
which forces the poor advertisers to pay a higher
274 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
rate for advertising than the actual circulation war­
rants.
The Progressive Publishing Company had been
incorporated for $150,000, with common stock at ten
dollars a share, of which more than two thirds was
sold. Baker, from the start, wanted to make a union
shop of the publication. He gave it a fair trial, and
in the end had to fight local union sabotage by mak­
ing the Free Press an open shop. It will remain
so, until the union representatives can convince Baker
that they will play fair with him, and not yield to
capitalists running rival papers.
False rumors were now spread around the adver­
tising agencies of the United States, that represent
foreign and national advertising for newspapers;
Baker found it hard to secure such advertising. The
Journal directly approached business men of Musca­
tine with false statements about its energetic rival.
In spite of the unparallelled benefits Baker, K-TNT,
and his other industries were giving to the city, the
merchants of Muscatine, or fully ninety-five per cent
of them, sided with the Journal, and refused to
advertise in the Free Press. The capitalistic groups
all joined hands to kill the new daily, because
naturally they could not dictate its editorial policies.
The local bankers joined in the fight against Baker.
The sash and door factories, owned by millionaires
who imported foreign labor from Europe to work for
ninety cents a day in their factories, joined in the hue
and cry. The pearl button factories, .who were
cheating their employees on the piece-work scale by
requiring fourteen dozen, and not twelve dozen, as
a gross, in computing wages, joined in the fight a-
gainst Baker too. And as a climax the majority of the
Th e Midwest F ree P ress 275
working men and women, whose battles Baker is still
fighting, refused to subscribe for the paper, and
spent their small earnings for the rival Journal, which
always fought labor tooth and nail in striketimes.'
And always personal problems to deal with, in
addition to the vaster impersonal ones. The adver­
tising manager of the paper, one William Carpenter,
played around with women not his wife at the ex­
pense of the paper; and collected bills due the paper
from local merchants, pocketing the money himself.
Confronted with these facts, facing a prison sent­
ence, Carpenter pulled out his check book, and wrote
out a check for the full amount. Carpenter was at
once discharged for his dishonesty. Later on he
sought to retaliate in many underhanded ways. We
will come to these later.
Meanwhile, there were the eternal snippings from
the organized doctors, led by the resplendent Dr.
Morris Fishbein, successor to Dr. George Simmons.
Baker ascertained that the only medicaj experience
that Fishbein had had, since leaving medical school,
was sixteen months practice in a contagious ward of
the Durand Hospital, at Chicago, from which he was
elevated to the papal post of exalted ruler of the
American Medical Association. And somehow Baker
got hold of a copy of the Code of Ethics of the
American Medical Association, and read it with
growing horror and disbelief. To his aghast vision,
the code of "ethics” began to picture to him the
doctors’ organization as a conspiracy to. cover up
errors and mistakes, even when death resulted from
these. The whole code can not be printed here;
but we have room for some of the worst sections.
276 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
For instance:
All discussions in consultations should be held
confidential. Neither by words nor by man­
ner should any of the participants in a consulta­
tion assert or intimate that any part of the treat­
ment pursued did not receive his assent.
Nice harmless-sounding words: but—their meaning!
If any blunder occurs in the operating room, for
instance, and no friends or relatives of the victim—
or patient— are present, any blunder that ensues,
which causes the death of your dear one, must, by
this rule of “ethics,” be covered up, and the doctor
go free. Even if friends or relatives are present,
they may not be able to understand what the consult­
ing doctors present see fully: some awful blunder,
that means death: and the lips of these consulting
doctors, their nods even, are sealed forever, by this
hell-inspired agreement. In this connection, Dr.
Ernest A. Codman, of Boston, a member of the Scien­
tific Group of the American Medical Association,
pointed out that practically all cases of bone sarcoma
were erroneously diagnozed. He continues,
Legs have been amputated when they should
not have been, and left on when they should
have been amputated.
Similarly, many an operation for a ruptured appendix
has disclosed a healthy appendix; but the doctor has
sewed the patient up, and collected his fee, while
the patient has suffered. Many forceps, shears,
pieces of bandage, needles, sponges, cotton, what­
not, have been left in the wound by mistake when
closing it, only to cause sickness and death a short
time thereafter, all of which has been discovered by
the doctors who operated the second time, who found
T h e Midwest F ree P ress 277
the foreign articles sewed up in the body, but
silenced the whole matter, letting somebody’s loved
one die without daring to reveal the truth, which
would be the basis of a suit for malpractice.
Another of the conspiratorial agreements is:
The physician, in his intercourse with a patient
under the care of another physician, should
observe the strictest caution and reserve; should
give no disingenuous hints relative to the nature
and treatment of the patient’s disorders, nor
should the course of conduct of the physician
directly or indirectly tend to diminish the trust
reposed in the attending physician.
By this, if you call in the second physician and he
finds that the first doctor is killing the patient with
an obviously wrong treatment, he dare say nothing—
to the patient; he must keep his mouth shut about
the other physician, except in private whispered talk
with him; and even if he is laughed at or told to go
to hell and mind his own business, he has voluntarily
emasculated his independent manhood and agreed
never to reveal the hideous and sometimes fatal mal­
practice.
Another of the thuggish provisions is:
The same circumspection should be observed
when, from motives of business or friendship, a
physician is tempted to visit a person who is
under the direction of another physician. In­
stead, such visits should be avoided, except under
peculiar circumstances; and when they are
made, no inquiries should be instituted relative
to the nature of the disease ,or the remedies
employed, but the topics of conversation should
be as foreign to the case as circumstances will
admit.
278 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
This part of the code is to prevent a patient and his
friends from hearing any discussion that may arise,
when the visiting doctor finds that the attending
family physician is treating the disease in error. In
meaning it says, let your good friend die, that is
unimportant to the medical profession; but never
hint, even, that the attending physician is in error.
The case has arisen with all of us, when we have
been sick, or had a friend sick, and there has been
an effort made to change doctors. When you suggest
or even hint a change of doctors, you must have
noticed the frozen distaste on the part of the attending
family doctor. Some light is thrown on this provision
of the malodorous code:
A physician ought not to take charge of, or
prescribe for, a patient who has recently been
under the care of another physician, in the same
illness, except in case of sudden emergency, or
in consultation with the physician previously in
attendance, or when that physician has re­
linquished the case or has been dismissed in due
form.
It is provisions like this which prevent one physician
from speaking harshly of another, or blurting out
any malodorous truth about him: unless, that is, the
one discussed happens to be an independent. The
ethical code practically instructs the physician never
to say anything damaging to another orthodox
doctor, or even to insinuate any thing damaging
regarding his practice. It sums up the attitude
thus:
The physician acting in conformity with the
insinuations regarding the practice adopted, and,
preceding sections should not make damaging
Th e Midwest F ree P ress 279
indeed, should justify it, if consistent with truth
and probity.
That is, right or wrong, intelligent or ignorant, the
whole group are organized into a wide conspiracy of
concealment and spiritual emasculation, against the
interests of the public. The thing stressed is to
protect the fellow doctor, at all costs: not to protect
the best interests of the patient, who, after all, is
the one who will suffer from mistakes or malpractice,
perhaps even to death. Doctors are not even to
exhibit any of their excessively dirty linen in public:
A peculiar reserve must be maintained by phy­
sicians toward the public in regard to profession­
al questions, and as there exists many points
in medical ethics and etiquette through which
the feelings of physicians may be painfully
assailed in their intercourse, and which cannot
be understood or appreciated by general society,
neither the subject matter of their differences
nor the adjudications of the arbitration should
be made public.
Keep it secret, don’t let the dumb stupid public know
anything of what they are doing, display a “peculiar
reserve” even when a course of treatment is killing
a patient—“peculiar” is right! This is the magnifi­
cent apotheosis of hypocrisy.
After reading and digesting this code of “ethics,”
Norman Baker realized that he had, all uninten­
tionally, come into conflict with this hideous a-
morphous monstrosity, the American Medical As­
sociation: this cancer on the body social. He had
earned its ill will, by perfecting an actual cure for
cancer, and thereby threatening doctordom’s blood-
toll in the shape of fees for operations, and X-ray and
radium treatments; it could never forgive that un-
280 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
intended death-blow to its ill-gotten blood-toll. Its
ethics, as far as he and his independent-souled kin­
dred were concerned, consisted of a stab in the dark,
and mental and spiritual poison about Baker sown
broadcast among the people of America: in the hope
that, at the end, they might fling his dishonored
corpse out upon the offal-pile of their own dead
decencies. Those newspaper headlines— “'Gun
Fight Climaxes Fight with Dr. Fishbein” and “Try
to Shoot up KTNT; Attack by Dr. Morris Fishbein
these became a little clearer now. And what wpuld
they not do, once they realized that his next effort
would be to cure the vastest cancer of all, the Ameri­
can Medical Association itself, that malignant growth
upon the body social?
Not all the doctors, thank God, were to be included
in this blanket indictment: all the independents, and
all out of the 86,000 members of the A. M. A. who
were forced, by the demands of their profession, to
join it unwillingly, or starve— these Baker exempted
from his own proscribed list. Only, everything
decent would be the gainer when these independent-
souled members of the octopus belatedly asserted
their dormant independence, and spurned the foul
organization wholly. Baker can see a vision, in
which a new organization, perhaps to be called the
American Medical Alliance, drains away all the
decent members of the old, and combines with the
present independent doctors, including the drugless
healers: all to work together for the good of man­
kind, with medical freedom as the cornerstone of the
new edifice: that is, that there shall be no further
jealousies between the doctor of medicine and the
drugless healer. Then the hospitals would be op-
T h e Midwest F ree P ress 281
erated on an independent basis, with freedom to all
schools of medical thought, all classes of doctors. If
the M. D. can not cure the patient, call in the drug­
less healer; if the drugless healer fails to cure, call
in the M. D.: but at all times let the paramount con­
sideration be the health and the life of the patient,
rather than that sluttish worship of the dollar that is
the god of organized doctordom today. And, when
the time comes that such a movement starts, Baker
stands by, always equipped with- some tremendous
organ of publicity, like his new radio'station X-ENT
in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, which is at the disposal of
this, as of all other movements designed to aid man­
kind, and smite hip and thigh the foul oppressors
that have made earth a hell, instead of a heaven, for
such long and dismal years.
They are waking, they are stirring in the dark, the
first upheavals within the very ranks of the A. M. A.
are happening, while its bland grasping overlords
are hardly conscious of what is occurring. Consider
these remarks of Dr. George F. Butler of Chicago,
while speaking before the Mississippi Valley Medical
Society: a statement all the more remarkable and
significant, because it is made by one of the A. M.
A. members, out of whose 86,000 enrolled some 80,-
000 may well be decent of soul and potentially in­
dependent of attitude:
It is monstrous for any man or set of men to
forbid the use of any method, any instrument,
any remedy, or any treatment which, in the
opinion of the attending physician, promises ■
success. I repeat, it is an insult to our inde­
pendence and intelligence that we are not allow­
ed to read any book or medical journal we please
282 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
at any time or place, whether in medical society
or in the seclusion of our offices; to use any
remedy we please, whether it be so-called “regu­
lar,” “homeopathic,” “electric,” “alkaloidal,”
or “proprietary” ; or any method of treatment
whatsoever, even though it smack of Christian
Science or osteopathy, without being-subjected
to public ridicule and criticism by a few self-
appointed “authorities” and “leaders” in medi­
cine.
Fine brave independent words these, ringing like a
bugle-call to the more timorous and backward mem­
bers of the organization. The revolution is brewing,
is almost ready to burst. Either the medical associa­
tion will clean its own house, or the public will do it
for them. From every side there are tremors of
what is happening. Consider these remarks by Dr.
William Gerry Morgan, while president of the
American Medical Association, published in the
New York State Journal of Medicine, in the issue of
June 15, 1931:
We are too prone and too ready to accept the
claims of manufacturers and travelling salesmen
as to the virtues of each new group of remedies
which are offered to us. This is not a fault con­
fined to the doctor of small experience, but is
common to all medical men. When we once
fully realize this universal failing, the accruing
dividends of pharaceutical manufacturers will
show a progressive downward tendency, to the
everlasting benefit of suffering humanity. As
Oliver Wendell Holmes said, “If all the medi­
cines in the world were thrown into the sea, it
would be better for men and worse for the
fishes.”
The laity is becoming somewhat restive, under •
;
T h e Midwest F ree P ress 283
the wholesale slaughter of teeth and tonsils, so
much so that our leading dentists and laryn­
gologists, being held responsible for the failure
of relief from some vague symptoms in one part
of the body or another, have led the retreat from
this, I might almost say, fad. We physicians
are now beginning to realize that the appendages
are of sufficient value to the human econbmy to
attempt to discover some method by which they
may be conserved.
Perhaps the harshest criticism which has yet
been voiced by lay writers is that the altruistic
aims of the medical profession, upon which is
built our pride of tradition, are being rapidly
and progressively sacrificed upon the altar of
the Golden Calf. Such a charge against our
profession.ought to be as unjust as it is malicious.
Is there, however, just a shade of justification
for this indictment? Are we becoming over­
commercialized, just a little bit?
The clipping sent Baker breaks off abruptly here.
The answer to the last queries, of course, is Yes.
Worst of all is the fact that the medical octopus
is the greatest deterrent on progress in healing. It
is easy for us to laugh at the substance used in com­
pounding drugs a hundred or so years ago: when
earthworms, toads, hog lice, other vermin, pulver­
ized human mummies, the urine and dung of bulls
and goats and human beings, the menstrual flow of
women, and other loathsome and disgusting things,
were commonplace in medicine. Sheep dung was
prescribed to cure measles, the dried bellies of skunks
to heal boils, powdered fox’s lungs for asthma, skin­
ned mice for whooping cough, and powdered human
284 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
skull as one of the great specifics, with a hundred
orthodox uses. Old medical handbooks recommended,
for stews, when patients were put on a diet, insects,
rodents, and the dried ordure of various animals. A
thousand sources migh be listed, to establish these
practices. Compare The Commercialization of
Human Souls, by Dr. Herbert Shelton, page 18:
The English Pharmacopoeia of the 17th century
states that fox lungs are beneficial in asthma;
Viga’s plaster, made of viper’s flesh, live frogs,
and worms, is beneficial in many ailments; moss
from the skull of a person who has died by
violence is a highly beneficial remedy; human
urine, sweat, and the saliva of a fasting person,
possess remarkable healing powers; cat-oint­
ment and oil of puppies boiled with earthworms
are effective remedies in dysentery.
Cat-ointment and oil of puppies, and the puppies
boiled with earthworms! Seventeenth century,
this; but twentieth century, the medicine we have
already discussed: the Squibb and Company medi­
cine compounded of horse dung, sold be the ener­
getic salesmen of the vast manufacturing concern to
drugstores and doctors throughout the entire country,
and so ultimately prescribed for the patient, and
taken by him. Not much progress, under the un­
progressive dominance of the American Medical
Association: from oil of puppies to horse-dung—thi
is the history of orthodox medicine.
Was there no way that Baker could actually get
his cancer cure before people in authority, who would
administer a scathing rebuke to the conspiratorial
and unprogressive organized doctordom? He de­
termined to try, anyhow . . . .
CHAPTER XV
THE SEATS OF THE MIGHTY
After the Iowa Supreme Court decision, reversing
the lower court’s verdict that Norman Baker was
not guilty of practicing medicine and surgery in the
State of Iowa without a license, merely because he
owned a hospital, Baker decided to take the matter
higher, and see if there was not some governmental
authority that would see to it that the world knew
of and utilized his cancer cure. His attorneys stated
that he could not appeal to the U. S. Supreme Court
from the Iowa Supreme Court on this case. Then
he went first to Dan Turner, the then Republican
governor of the State. Baker spent about an hour
and a half with the man in the governor’s own
private office. Turner professed himself very
interested in the proofs of cancer cures which Baker
showed him: dozens and dozens of large eight by
ten inch photographs, showing first the patient
suffering with the disease, and then the appearance
of the same patient after the cure had been effected.
Baker pointed out how vital it was, to the people of
the State, the land, the world, that this should be
amply investigated by the State. He asked Turner
to appoint a committee,, or have the Legislature
appoint a legislative committee, to investigate Baker’s
hospital and its method of curing cancer. If they
ascertained that cancer was actually being cured,
Baker pointed out that it was the governor’s duty to
place the stamp of his official approval upon it, so
that the three thousand sufferers from cancer in Iowa
285
286 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
should at least have a chance to escape the dreadful
death, and be cured. On the other hand, said Baker
straightly, if the committee found that there was any
faking or misrepresentation present, the place should
be closed and he himself put in jail. This was the
proposition Baker made to the governor.
The governor shook his head. He said that he was
sorry that he could not do a thing; “Baker, my hands
are tied,” he said. But he said he had a good friend
on the legislature’s Health Committee, then in session,
and that he would try to arrange for Baker to give
his talk and present his story to that committee. It
is tragic that a man in public office, with, the oppor­
tunity given Turner to investigate and approve of
one of mankind’s great forward steps in healing,
should have washed his hands so abjectly of it. All
that the governor would do was to pull a card from
his vest pocket showing the composition of the various
committees; and suggesting three different officials
that he thought might do something in the matter.
He marked the card, and passed it over to Baker.
Baker went in due time to the room occupied by the
Health Committee, while they were in session. Even
when he told the committee’s secretary that the
governor of the State had sent him, the secretary
would not let Baker into the .committee room, or give
him any consideration whatever! So it was that the
State of Iowa, as represented by its executive and
legislative officeholders, rejected Norman Baker and
his positive proofs that he had the cure for cancer.
They had established themselves as callous and cold
to human suffering and death as the organized
disease-and-death trust, the medical monopoly.
Baker gave them one final chance. He went
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 287
home and wrote this letter to all of them, and sent it
' to them at once:
To Governor Dan Turner:
To the State Legislature:
To Atty. Gen. John Fletcher:
Muscatine, Iowa
February 21, 1931
Gentlemen:
In the spirit of fair-play, and for the good of
humanity, I am addressing this letter to each of
the state officials, members of the legislature,
the governor, and to Attorney General John
Fletcher. This, not with a view toward exerting
influence, but to put the facts directly before
you; and if I succeed in accomplishing that, I
feel that your superior intelligence will take care
of the rest.
In Iowa, at Muscatine, the Baker hospital is
operated, regarding which, much contention
has belched forth through efforts of the medical
trust groups in Iowa; and in spite of it all, ONE
. FACT REMAINS. Either Norman Baker, the
owner, who has, by spoken and printed word,
stated that CANCER IS CURABLE without
operation, radium or X-ray, is a quack and faker
or the Baker Hospital uses a treatment that
cures.
To ascertain the truth is an easy matter. If
he is a quack and taking money from susceptible
sick people afflicted with cancer, as the state
attorney’s office has inferred, then his hospital
should be closed and Norman Baker put in JAIL.
On the other hand, if he has found a treatment
that cures cancer, and if cancer is being cured
or has been cured at his hospital, then the entire
world should know of it, and the persecution of
the medical group, as well as the persecution and
288 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
prosecution by the attorney general’s office
SHOULD STOP.
Every official and legislator knows, without
going into detail here, the force—the power, of
any organization that is organized to foster any
special thing upon the public. Everyone of you
know or should know, that the American Medi­
cal Association, the parent organization with
offices in Chicago, which branches out to a state
medical association in every state, then to a
county medical association in practically every
county, and which then fosters upon the country
folk, a school nurse which reports show is a
“medical snooper” for the medics, together with
the helping hand of theParent-Teacher’s associa­
tion, constitutes one of the greatest, strongest
trust organizations in America, and that once
they start to persecute and prosecute anyone,
they generally make a good job of it.
After this same group refused to even investi­
gate a treatment that the committee from the
TNT magazine found to have cured cancer,
Norman Baker took it upon himself to start a
hospital, his sole intent being to help suffering
victims of cancer. This was done only after
local doctors of the Muscatine Medical society
refused to even investigate the treatment or
review the data gathered. The hospital was
fully equipped, entirely new in interior construc­
tion, the finest of conveniences arranged and the
treatment was made known to the world by him,
over KTNT radio station, and through the
columns of the TNT magazine.
Hundreds, yes thousands, of people came to
Muscatine from many parts of America and
Canada. The majority, by far, were those who
had undergone operations, radium and X-ray
treatments, and had then been pronounced in-
T h e Seats of t h e Mighty 289
curable. Many of these were sent home well;
many helped to the extent that years were added
to their lives; many whose cases were too far
advanced, were helped to the point that they
went home without the aid of morphine pills
every few hours, which they were using when
they arrived. Their pain was relieved at least.
Of course, some cases were incurable, and
nothing could be done for them.
The percentage of cures is large; off-hand
I would state that over 60 percent of external,^
cancer cases are cured. The percentage of cures
of internal cancer is less, but numbered among
the cures of internal cancer made by the Baker
Hospital, are many cases of cancer of the uterus,
cancer of the stomach, cancer of the lung, etc.
Regarding these cures, the Baker hospital has
the data; the proof; X-ray pictures; and photos
showing conditions “before and after,” micro­
scopic and pathological data, as well as hundreds
of cancers, preserved in bottles, for exhibition.
I have offered, and attach hereto, a photo of
a certified check for $5,000, which I placed in
the American Savings bank of this city, this
check to be paid to anyone who will come and
investigate the work of the doctors at the Baker
hospital, and prove that Norman Baker has made
one false statement regarding cancer having
been and now being cured at the Baker hospital.
I .have openly challenged Gardner Cowles of the
Des Moines Register to investigate, offering him,
unconditionally, this $5,000. certified check, if
he finds misrepresentation as stated above.
Not satisfied with their persecution and prose­
cution of Norman Baker, the medical group of
Iowa, including the Iowa Medical Society,
Muscatine Medical society, and John Fletcher
of the attorney general’s office, have openly
290 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
boasted that they were “going to clean up the
Baker hospital.” My licensed doctors have been
threatened, and Dr. J. L. Statler, who has
practiced for over fourteen years in Iowa, and
received his license every year, was denied his
renewal card last June because he worked for
Norman Baker. He HAS NOT AS YET, re­
ceived his renewal license card, but they have
not the courage to come to the courts in this
district and attempt to revoke his license, be­
cause they know we will be able to expose and
lay public, their vicious indifferences to the
health of the citizens of Iowa, and their vicious
persecution.
Furthermore, other doctors in my employ
have been told that if they do not leave my em­
ploy, their license will be revoked. Another
doctor has been told that if he leaves my employ,
they will renew his license, which now stands
unrenewed. ALL OF THIS is transpiring in the
fair state of Iowa, and is surely a stain upon all
of us who permit such monopolistic conditions to
exist.
The Iowa state health board, under the di­
rection of Dr. Steelsmith, surely deserves an in­
vestigation ; they should be made to openly show
their hands, and especially account for the
state’s money that is being spent in paying
lobbyists in Des Moines during this session.
Attorney General John Fletcher should be
questioned to ascertain if it is not the truth that
medical bills now before the state legislature
have not been written for the sole purpose of
furthering the persecution of Norman Baker and
the Baker Hospital. Let us analyze the situa­
tion.
Bill No. 224 was first written to permit the
board of health to revoke the licenses of any
T h e Seats of T h e Mighty 291
physician on the same grounds as in the district
court; then it further states that they may re­
new a license of any physician which was re­
voked, by recommendation of the health commis­
sioner. WHAT HAVE WE? First, any phy­
sician they do not like, or whom they cannot
control, or who works for a hospital like the
Baker hospital they can revoke his license;
whereas, as the law now stands, they must go
into the district court in-the district where the
said physician practices, in order to revoke his
license. Secondly, the bill enables them to re­
new any revoked license by recommendation of
the health commissioner, WHICH MAKES THE
HEALTH COMMISSIONER A CZAR—a czar
upon whom more power is bestowed than a
REAL czar, perhaps. Every physician they dis­
like, will never have their licenses renewed,
whereas, any physician, who, by chance, has had
his license revoked for murdering innocent girls
by criminal ABORTION or for the selling of
NARCOTICS AND MAKING DRUG ADDICTS,
may have his license renewed. It is easily con­
ceivable that in many cases, if this bill goes
through, they would be renewed, if by chance,
the physician had political pull, or was a mem­
ber of the Medical association.
Regarding the good standing of convicted
doctors, Mr. T. Swann Harding, in his book
entitled, “Fads, Frauds and Physicians,” pub­
lished by the Dial Press, New York City, on page
243, says: “It is also true that at least one authen­
tic case could be cited, where in spite of protests
to the contrary, a local branch of the American
Medical Association retained as a full member,
a doctor who was convicted under the Narcotic
Act; he remained a member in good standing
292 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
during the time he was in the penitentiary and,
of course, thereafter.”
This bill No. 224, I understand, was defeated
on the floor of the house, and was reconsidered
upon motion by Representative Allen. I also
understand that it is being rewritten, and that
the medical group have signified their willing­
ness to accept it with the clause stricken out
about revoking licenses; but want the clause re­
newing licenses, held. It should be defeated
IN ANY FORM.
THE HOSPITAL BILL, which I understand
is not yet printed, has been before the com­
mittee. This bill, it has been stated, was written
directly against Norman Baker and the Baker
Hospital, and WHY, may we ask? For reasons
that in that hospital, they are curing cancer,
after doctors of the medical group have branded
the cancer as incurable and sentenced the pa­
tient to death. That bill gives MORE czaristic
powers to the state medical board, by enabling
them to license all hospitals in Iowa, and after
the first year's license expire, they will use the
same dominating, unfair tactics they now use in
cases of physicians’ licenses, by refusing to re­
new the hospital’s license. They will do this in
the same manner as they refused last June, to
renew the license of Dr. J. L. Statler.
THIS HOSPITAL BILL SHOULD BE DE­
FEATED FOR THE GOOD OF ALL IOWA.
They have also introduced another bill, called
the pharmacy bill, and added a clause which
also is undoubtedly directed against the Baker
hospital. Bill No. 159 SHOULD BE DE­
FEATED, as it simply gives the health board
further powers to limit the mixing of medicines,
whereas the present pharmacy law has held good
for many years. These “catch-traps” are bills
T h e S eats op th e Mighty 293
written up from experiences they have gleaned
from the court fight here at Muscatine, where
they were not successful in proving Norman
Baker guilty. While the supreme court has re­
versed the decision, my attorneys will apply for
re-hearing, after which it will go to the United
States supreme court, if necessary and possible.
Dr. Lake of Chicago, in his article in the Medi­
cal Economics magazine for August, 1930,
brazenly says that the doctors get what they
want by merely reaching for the ‘phone and
‘phoning their legislators, which statement is an
insult to every legislature in the United States.
Doctors should be reprimanded for such brazen
public boasting. It proves their confidence in
their monopolistic powers. Their ease of in­
fluencing legislatures, which they brazenly
boast of, could easily be rebuked by turning a
deaf ear to their vicous demands.
My honorable Sirs, I am fighting for the same
kind of liberty that was foremost in the minds of
our forefathers and the masters of democratic
republics. I fight for the same liberty set forth
in Magna Charta; for the same kind of liberty
that Thomas Paine fostered when he penned
“The Rights of Man” on the drumhead in Po­
tomac Valley, which set the blood boiling in the
veins of the colonial army sweeping the British
tyrant before them; the liberty that makes every
honorable American forget the dollars—forget
self—ignore prison bars and stand for the rights '
supposedly bestowed upon us by the Constitution
of the United States. I fight for this, and ask
you to assist in this great fight for humanity, so
that we may have the same freedom that Dr.
Benjamin Rush proposed to the makers of the
Declaration of Independence, by addressing
Thomas Jefferson thus: “The Constitution of
294 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
this republic should make special provision for
medical freedom as well as religious freedom.
To restrict men and deny equal privileges to
others, will constitute the bastile of medical
science. All such laws are un-American and
despotic. They are fragments of monarchy and
have no place in a republic.”
Such conditions surely have no place in our
good state of Iowa.
In conclusion, I again refer to the second
paragraph about Norman Baker and the Baker
hospital either being branded as fakers and
crooks and the hospital closed and Baker put in
jail, or the truth of the cure (if it is proven a
cure) being broadcast throughout the land,
whereby millions could be saved from that
horrible and painful death by cancer. I ask
you to exert every effort to secure a legislative
investigation of the cures and treatments used
at the Baker hospital; to make said investiga­
tion fair and honest; to have said committee
composed of doctors from all cults, as well as
laymen, and let the “chips” fall as they may,
from such investigation.
If this investigation proves that there is
"quackery” being practiced, I urge the closing of
the hospital—in fact, I will not wait for you to
close it legally, but will immediately close the
doors forevermore. On the other hand, if said
investigation proves that cures are being made,
I ask you to pass legislation to enable the treat­
ments to be continued without prosecution at
the hands of the American Medical association,
the Iowa State Medical society, the Muscatine
County Medical society, as well as the Attorney
General’s office at the hands of John Fletcher
and Gerald Blake.
To pass this matter by, with an idle jest, means
T h e S eats o f th e Mighty 295
a future reprimand for ignorance, as surely as
that received by those who laughed at the tele­
phone, the telegraph, the steam engine, the air­
plane; the radio, and other progressive steps in
science, which causes scoffers to admit their lack
of foresight and progressiveness; and I feel sure
you do not want to be classed with this near­
sighted group.
The time is NOW, when in a short time, the
state of Iowa can prove Norman Baker a fakef,
if what the newspapers, medical trust, and John
Fletcher say is true; it is an opportunity to rid
the state of that which seems to be a THORN
IN THEIR SIDE.
May we have this investigation?
Your respectfully,
BAKER HOSPITAL
N. BAKER
Norman Baker, incidentally, is one of the most
vigorous and hard-hitting letter-writers I have ever
known. He is the son of the Archer, Sagittarius, in
this too: and woe to the victim of his aim! But, in
this case, his effort was useless: nothing could stir
the calculated lethargy, the ordered inactivity, or
the servile political gang. In reality, they did not
need to investigate: through spies and other means
they had learned, too well for their peace of mind,
that no faking was going on. If „Baker had
been faking, they would have closed the hospital and
jailed him long before. Naturally, the A. M. A. had
no stomach for an investigation, which must end in
an approval of the cures; and the servile Solons
jumped when the.medical whip was cracked, then as
ever.
So the State would do nothing. Neither would
•pauiiEiDun HUS si jp a ip siq x — [Bl!d«°H J a ^ a »Hl 1» P3-1" 3 Su!3tl SBAl -Ia3UB3 P3}r»s
aI| HaqA pajuasajdaasiui atj S aiiiojd auoXu« o í a a^ sg ubuijo^ Áf{ p a ja d o ijaaga 0 0 '0 0 0 ‘S$ J° B3!ldaH
£ 3 i n i l i S N I U3MVB
v a u t 'àarjÈÒsttJt
XNVQ SONtAVS N V a
;^ ççïôcî <mvsnoK£ tAW
® > ' WÓI’ attuvofeiar.tviws¿a iwm sent- <*...:
skiA
ûH
tî sóíísaiAsr «nteiNHiur ohb hdwsm äkv . .
I 1T~S6t 03 H30WSOf<J \ . ¿ Z & X
1 p rn - o
k
H (’l* <
» ; • • • a j n m s u j j ö i j b
«
T he S eats op th e Mighty 297
the A. M. A. and its State and county subsidiaries, or
the Rockefeller Foundation, or the Mayo Brothers
Clinic, or others whom Baker appealed to, for a
square deal in making his cancer cure known to the
world. Suddenly Baker had another brilliant
thought. This was going to be a big long hard fight,
costing a lot of money; why not get the support of
the one group who would be the financial gainers
if people did not die from cancer; that is, the insur­
ance companies! Once let them investigate, ap­
prove, and make general the use of the Baker cancer
cure, and the lives of cancer patients who would
otherwise die would be prolonged; and this meant
more premiums, instead of an actual cash outlay for
the large death benefits. It was brilliant common
sense. But even this effort failed. The Metro­
politan Life, the Prudential, and other companies not
only refused to investigate, but some of them did not
even honor Baker’s offer with an answer. In fact,
the Metropolitan, instead of cooperating with Baker,
attacked him, by carrying full page advertisements
in the leading national publications, advising the
public to keep away from quacks and charlatans.
They did not mention Baker by name in these ad­
vertisements; but they did refer to the case of a boy
named Irwin of Maquoketa, Iowa, claiming that his
case of barber’s itch was diagnosed as cancer. As
usual, they did not tell the truth: what’s a lie, among
capitalists?
Baker ascertained that the wealthy insurance
officers were thus dominated by the A. M. A., who
stipulated that no physician could be employed by
the insurance companies unless he belonged to the
A. M. A. and its State and county subsidiaries. The
298 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
idea of insurance companies led naturally to that of
fraternal lodges, who often operate insurance depart­
ments for their members. The National President
of the Woodmen of the World, W. A. Fraser, wrote
that his time was too taken up with his own fraternal
affairs, to investigate the matter at all. This in
spite of the fact that Baker offered to have the man
select test patients and send them to the Baker'
Hospital, which would thus establish what it could
do. But so it is that the blind, deaf world reacted to
this splendid offer. Baker still has it open, to any
lodge, association, or group willing to participate in
such a test. Yet when it is recalled that every
fraternal organization, as far as Baker has ascer­
tained, selects its physicians from among the A. M.
A. myrmidons, it becomes a little clearer why they
will not take the fine progressive step of so testing
the Baker cancer cure.
In desperation, Baker turned to the United States
Health Department, even though he knew it was
loaded with A. M. A. doctors until it was,simply lousy
with them. There is no law barring drugless healers
from federal positions; but there is the subtle question
on their application blank, as to what medical soc­
ieties they belong to. Somehow this is insidiously
successful, and the positions are filled by A. M. A.
doctors. The same sly technique appears in the
application blanks of the Federal Radio Commission,
which ask, “Do you use chain programs?” and
“Which chain programs do you use?” It is an un­
needed commentary on the dominance of the air by
the chain broadcasting companies, that those stations
cooperating with them in general receive far better
consideration than the independents, in every way.
T he S eats of th e Mighty 299
In spite of his knowledge of these things, Baker,
as early as November, 1929, flushed with knowledge
that his own test cases had-established the virtues of
the treatment, wrote to the President of the United
States, seeking a government investigation and ap­
proval of the method. He was referred to Surgeon
General H. S. Cumming, of the Bureau of Public
Health Service, a subsidiary of the Treasury Depart­
ment. Just why health should be listed under the
Treasury, rather than under .the Department of the
Interior, is hard to say: except that wily Andy Mellon,
of the Aluminum group, was over the Treasury, and
made his finger fit into a lot of pies. Cumming
eldered Baker suavely, writing under date of Novem­
ber 12,1929:
While it is easy for us to understand your
enthusiasm over the very early favorable results
which, you believe you have observed following
a certain treatment for cancer, it will probably
be difficult for you to understand a certain re­
serve and skepticism which we cannot conceal.
Our attitude arises from a long experience with
alleged miraculous cures,- which has taught us
the wisdom of taking plenty of time before
arriving at conclusions. We now have on file
here scores of claims for the possession of cures
for cancer. They are all different. We cannot
investigate them all. We think it best to reserve
our interest for those which are not secret and
which have some scientific plausibility.
The five cases which you cite are not, so we
understand, fully cured as yet. Let us see how
they are six months from now.
Baker secured the good auspices of the Iowa Senator,
Smith W. Brookhart, in the matter. Baker inquired
300 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
about an alleged offer of the government concerning
a cure for cancer. Cumming wrote to Brookhart,
and Brookhart relayed to Baker, that there was no
such government offer; but that one William Law­
rence Saunders had offered three prizes of $50,000
each for the discoveries of the “causation, prevention
and cure of cancer”— an offer made December 15,
1926, and to stand for three years. It had only
eleven days to run, when Baker was informed of it.
Moreover, the decision of the award judges, the
American Society for the Control of Cancer, “must
be approved by the American Medical Association
and the American College of Surgeons”. Baker
wrote to Senator Brookhart that of course $50,000
“would be no offer for what we have,” but that he
was interested in the fact that the offer had been
made.
Baker wrote again to Surgeon General Cumming,
a p ro fo u n d ly m o v in g a n d e lo q u en t le tte r. H e co m ­
m en d ed th e d o c t o r ’s c a u tio n ; b u t he p le a d e d fo r a
f a ir an d fu ll in v e s tig a tio n , b o th re g a r d in g th e c a n c e r
cu re an d th e c u re fo r v a r ic o s e v e in s, w ith o u t o p e ra ­
tio n in e ith e r ca se .
November 29, 1929
Dr. H. S. Cumming,
Surgeon General,
Bureau of Public Health Service,
Treasury Department,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Doctor:
We want to thank you for your letter of No­
vember 12th, a copy of which we have sent to
President Hoover regarding our treatment for
Cancer and nutritional diseases.
First, we want to remind you that we have no
T he S eats of th e Mighty 301
“ax to grind”. As magazine publishers, we
simply investigated something which the Ameri­
can Medical Association did not do. Invitations
were spurned by medical men to attend a Con­
ference at which 100 patients would be treated.
That, on the face of it together with the “hound­
ing” of the physician in question to such an
extent that he placed a mortgage on his home
aroused our suspicion of jealousy, prejudice and
narrow mindedness; therefore, we investigated.
We cannot censure any physician, especially
one of your standing as Surgeon General of the
United States, in being anything but cautious
and suspicious of “so-called cures” because as
you say, we believe your department has been
literally flooded with data pertaining to “so-
called cures”. A cure for Cancer and other in­
curable diseases is being sought on every hand
by doctors and others alike. A much greater
battle must be fought in convincing the medical
profession of a cure than the battle against odds
to bring forth the cure. In our estimation, the
American Medical Association is confined to a
narrow sphere, not meaning the individual mem­
bers but speaking of the association in its entire­
ty, that they have held back medical progress
instead of stimulating it. You may disagree and
on second thought, possibly you will not. If
you as Surgeon General of the United States,
discovered a cure for Cancer tomorrow and if
you happen to be one who had been fought by
the Medical Association and then after discover­
ing a cure refused to give it up to them, you
would be pronounced a “quack”, a faker and
your license revoked, perhaps. You would not be
in a mental attitude to give up that which you
had wqrked for years to find, especially, if you
were to give it to those who had hounded you.
302 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
Then if you were inclined to do so, they would
first laugh, ridicule and censure you and it would
require thousands of dollars in expense to dem­
onstrate, holding conferences, meetings, etc.
You state your attitude arises with alleged
miraculous cures which has taught you the wis­
dom of taking plenty of time before arriving
at a conclusion. That is proper, but I neglected
to tell you that this is not a new cure. We can
let you talk to patients who were cured five
years ago after other physicians and leading
clinics had given them up to die. At the
present time in Muscatine, Iowa, there are pa­
tients from the Mayo Brothers Clinic at
Rochester, Minnesota, who after they went on
the operating table at the suggestion of the clinic
were pronounced incurable. They are still living
and there is no question in our minds but what
they are going to be cured.
Dr. Dittmer of Colesburg, Iowa, had a brother
dying of Cancer and wanted us to send the medi­
cine which we could not do as the treatment
must be administered at the Institute. His
brother went under the knife and was given but
a few weeks to live. Dr. Dittmer came here to
investigate the treatment as he could not induce
his brother to come as his brother’s physician
in a neighboring town told him that any treat­
ment for Cancer was a fake and to pay no
attention to it. Dr. Dittmer and a friend called
here, went out and looked over the patients
under treatment and left immediately to see if
he could not induce his brother to come even at
this late date and take the treatment, stating that
he was fully satisfied with what was being ac­
complished. You are at liberty to write'them
and if you do not hear from them, let us know.
You state you would not care to subject your
T h e S eats op th e Mighty 303
patients to any treatment except that which was
known to the American Medical profession and
if that is the case, no doubt thousands of patients
are going to die for the simple reason that you
are taking the wrong attitude, in case you do not
investigate this treatment, because it is secret.
You ask us to wait two years or five years and
then see what could be done. This treatment
is five years old and there is no guess work
about it. You talk about the scientific plausibil­
ity of treatment you would rather interest your­
self in than a secret one, regardless of either, it
should be results that count, and hundreds of
war veterans are going under the knife, being
burned with Radium or having the condition
scattered with X-ray while this treatment is
already saving many from such.
We may relate that six years ago a friend
physician of mine discovered a cure for Vari­
cose Veins without operation, simply a mere
injection. Before I became a publisher of a
magazine some few years ago, I interested my­
self with this physician and I was ridiculed,
humiliated and censured for taking up with a
“quack” but we can show you many cases of
Varicose Veins and Leg Ulcers with 85% abso­
lute cures and no recurrences in six years of
treatment. Then I find in the past year, medi­
cal journals carry a formula for injection for
Varicose Veins and just how successful it is I
do not know but I hope it is a good one like the
one I am speaking of. We were going to give
it to the American, Medical Association and we
announced the idea to the Associated Press.
The next day the president of the American
Medical Association in an Associated Press
story stated there was no cure for Varicose
Veins. We stopped right there as we were not
304 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
going to try and force a cure on a man too
narrow minded to even investigate before mak­
ing a statement.
Now I am saying to you that we are speaking
of a cure for Cancer and a cure without opera­
tion, Radium or X-ray. I mean exactly those
words and any physician may come and investi­
gate. You owe this to humanity, especially in
the position you hold.
Dr. Cumming, there is one thing I wish to im­
press upon you and that is, as publisher of the
TNT ihagazine, owner and operator of radio
station K-TNT and numerous enterprises in this
city which constitute the Norman Baker Enter­
prises, I have too much of a reputation to sacri­
fice by lending aid to anything except that which
we have found to be absolutely correct. Your
department is spending a lot of money for
things more useless than it would be to send a
physician to Muscatine and make an investiga­
tion. We want a physician who will come here
with an open mind and we will then be satis­
fied with the report that he carries back to you.
Have I made this impressive enough to warrant
your action in this matter? If so, I would be
glad to hear from you again.
With every kind wish and assuring you that
it is only with the spirit of helping humanity that
I am bringing this matter to your attention, I
remain
Yours very truly,
TNT MAGAZINE
NB:AMW Per Norman Baker.
A copy of this went to President Hoover and an­
other to the Iowa Senator. Surgeon General Cum-
ming answered with this curt evasion of his duty as
a man and an office-holder:
T h e Seats op th e Mighty 305
I have received your second letter dated Novem­
ber 29th on the subject of the cancer treatment
in which you are interested. It does not suggest
to my mind any answer essentially different
from the one dated November 12th.
And this was every word he wrote. Patiently Baker
wrote the discourteous one again, pointing out that
his cancer cure was not new and untried, but had
been used successfully for some years. Especially he
rebuked the doctor’s assumption that the American
Medical-Association must have a monopoly of the
right to judge cures. He pleaded again for an in­
vestigation.
December 17, 1929
H. S. Cumming,
Treasury Department,
Bureau of Public Health Service,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Cumming:
We thank you for your letter of December 9th .
but it is a surprise to us for the reason that in
your former letter you inferred you could not be­
come interested because it was a new treat­
ment and that we should wait for five years and
see what results would be.
We hurried to correct you in that assumption,
telling you that this was not a new treatment
for Cancer but has been in use continuously for
a number of years and we have the living proof
as witnesses of the fact that it does cure Cancer,
both internal and external as well as Goiter.
That it cures them without operation, without
Radium or X-ray and we cannot understand why
an official in your capacity and with the re­
sponsibility that is around your official position
will turn a “deaf ear” by writing a four line
letter stating that your first reply suffices.
306 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
I assured you that the writer did not dare
jeopardize his reputation with anything of a
“quack" nature and I fully realize the strength
and influence of the American Medical Associa­
tion, of which no doubt, you are a member and
fully realize the influence of the Association
under which you work under and we came to
you in an open broad minded way believing you
would be overly anxious to save the lives of the
thousands of poor sufferers who are dying inch
by inch— especially members of the War Vet­
erans Bureau and other such associations.
I again urge you, Doctor, to give this matter
your attention. It is something that is worthy
and we have resolved to do our utmost to bring
this matter to the attention of humanity. We
can do so without jeopardizing our reputation
in any way.
Our next move will be to take this up with the
United States Senate, even thought it ends in a
. Senatorial investigation of the American Medical
Association or any other association that raises
their hand to keep this wonderful thing from
humanity.
I realize the position you are in. It is too
good to believe. You have had many cases like
it but coming from one as reputable as we,
deserves some consideration from your office,
at least a physician sent here to make their own
investigation. If you can arrange that, the
writer will be at liberty in about 30 days to assist
him in any way.
Yours truly,
TNT MAGAZINE
NB:AMW t Per Norman Baker
There was no answer. On September 21st of this
year Baker wrote again to Surgeon General Cum-
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 307
ming, reminding him of the time that had elapsed,
which had merely corroborated the correctness of his
claims for the cancer cure. To date, there has been
no answer.
Meanwhile, Baker had been referred to General
Hines, Chief of the War Veterans’ Bureau. His
plea, in behalf of the veterans suffering from the
spreading scourge, was eloquent enough. He offered
to cure five veterans, afflicted with Cancer, Tumor,
Goiter, Bright’s Disease, Stomach Ulcers, and Rheu­
matism, if they were turned over to his hospital.
Dec. 7th, 1929
General Frank T. Hines,
Director of Veterans Bureau,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hines:
We have a matter here that we have been
taking up with Senator Brookhart and Dr. Cum-
ming, Surgeon General, and he gives us your
name to take the matter up with, which has to
do with the sick veterans.
We are sending you a copy of the December
issue of our magazine TNT and wish you to read
the article entitled “Cancer Conquered’’. This
magazine conducted this investigation and we
can say without fear of having to contradict our
statement that we have uncovered an absolute
cure for Cancer and Goiter, whether they are
external or internal, and without operation, X-
ray or Radium, simply an intra-muscular in­
jection of the medicine, which is not a serum.
This is not our discovery in medical lines but
our curiosity was aroused when we heard of the
treatment and the attempts being made to
practically smother same by not investigating
by others who should have done so, namely, the
308 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
medical association.
There has been opened in this city, what is
known as the Baker Institute for the treatment
of Goiter, Cancer, Bright’s Disease and other
nutritional diseases which this treatment
covers. At this time, there are practically 25 pa­
tients in this city who have been accommodated
in homes awaiting the opening of the Institute
and 80% of them have come here as a last re­
sort from the Mayo Brothers Clinic at Rochester,
Minnesota, and other specialists in Cancer,
Goiter and such diseases and have been pro­
nounced incurable.
We invite any physician, any association, to
come here and make any investigation they
want, look up the condition of the patients be-
. fore arriving and examine them today, and in so
doing will positively convinced. It is not new,
it was not just discovered yesterday, therefore,
the usual comeback of medical associations when
asked why they do not know a thing, they can­
not say that is temporary. This treatment has
been given for 15 years and we can show living
patients with Cancer who took this treatment and
were cured five years ago.
Now, our object in writing you is this—as
Director of the Veterans Bureau, y©u are no
doubt interested in curing the many boys who are
suffering from such incurable diseases as Can-
- cer, tumor, goiter, Bright’s disease, Stomach
Ulcers, etc., and we suggest that we prove to you
as we did ourselves regarding this treatment,
namely, for you to select 5 patients in different
stages and location of Cancer, olr with Dia­
betes, Stomach Ulcers, Bright’s Disease, tumors,
etc., and judge solely by the results obtained
upon these five patients and be sure and include
one with rheumatism. Would you be interested
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 309
in such? Now, remember, this is not a new
treatment that you are subjecting, your patients
to. You are not subjecting them to anything
that is going to cause harm or interfere with any
further treatment or operation they may want
to take in the future, but we suggest you investi­
gate this treatment before letting them go under
the knife, or use Radium or X-ray, the three
things that you well know do not cure many Can­
cers of the bowels, stomach, bladder, etc.
This is going to strike you like a bolt of
lightning from the sky—it seems to good to be
true— it is too phenomenal and miraculous to
believe but we assure you as publishers of the
TNT magazine, owner and operator of radio
station K-TNT with 5000 watts of power, and
as owner and operator of the various Norman
Baker Enterprises with assets of practically one
million dollars, we have too much of a reputa­
tion at stake to jeopardize it by making any false
statements, therefore', we present this matter to
you for for your investigation.
If you wish to send a physician here from your
department, you may do so; we will appreciate
it and we will co-operate with him in making
any investigation that he wishes.
Yours truly,
TNT MAGAZINE
NB:AMW Per Norman Baker
On December 18th the answer came: -
You realize, of course, that the U. S. Veterans
Hospitals are all approved institutions and it is
the policy of the Medical Service of the Bureau
to utilize only such methods of treatment as are
recognized and approved by the American Medi­
cal Association and other reputable medical
bodies.
He suggested that Baker refer his matter to the A.
310 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
M. A., who were already Baker’s bitter greedy en­
emies, and to the Hygienic Laboratory of Washing­
ton, D. C.
Until the therapeutic regime you describe is
approved by these agencies, the Bureau cannot
utilize, nor can it introduce the same in the
Bureau hospitals. . . .
Very truly yours
Prank T. Hines
Director
Baker wrote back at once, pleading for an investi­
gation of his cures, and suggesting a senatorial in­
vestigation of the American Medical Association.
December 24,1929
Frank T. Hines,
United States Veterans Bureau,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hines:
We received your letter of December 18th
but results could not be obtained by following
the suggestions you make.
You state to have this treatment given over to
the American Medical Association and to others.
For over 15 years, medical associations have
fought the physicians connected with this treat­
ment and prevented it from reaching the public
for reasons that we-do not understand unless it
is jealousy and enviousness and the usual red
tape connected with associations and govern­
mental work.
The treatment will never be given to the
American Medical Association for reasons that
should be obvious to you. If, in your office to­
day, you had a treatment that would cure Can­
cer or other incurable diseases, and you attempt­
ed to give it to medical associations and have
them accept it, it would cost you many, many
T h e Seats op th e Mighty 311
dollars before you got through with the red tape.
I believe you realize this.
You also suggest we send it to the Hygienic
Laboratory, Washington, D. C. It is not neces­
sary to send this treatment to any laboratory or
any medical association or to any physician to
examine as to whether it is good or not. You
know “the proof of the pudding is in the eating”
and when we can lead you to proofs, people who
have been cured of Cancer, not one but many of
them— people who were treated years and years
ago and are well today, without any after effects,
why in the world would that treatment want to
go to a laboratory to have some bonehead
Doctor tell you whether he thinks it would cure
or not? All that Doctor could tell you would
be that it should be tried for 5 years and then
check up on the results. It has been tried over
15 years and the results have been checked more
carefully than a body of physicians would have
checked it, until at this time, we are able to say
to you that Cancer, Tumor, Goiter, either inter­
nal or external, can be cured, if there is any
vitality whatsoever for the patient under the
treatment. That means, if they have not gone
to the extreme limit, even those who have under-'
gone operations and been abused or treated by
X-ray or Radium, even they can have hopes. It
must be a bad and extreme case before it would
be given up by those who administer this treat­
ment. What do you care and what should
others care what the treatment consists of when
it has been given for years and years to hundreds
and hundreds of patients, many of whom have
regained their complete health, and such experi­
ments proving that there is nothing in the treat­
ment to harm the individual?
We haye too many things going on in the
312 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
United States today with the stamp of approval
of the American Medical Association on them
that should not be tolerated by the American
public. What is needed, Mr. Hines, is a sena­
torial investigation of the American Medical
Association and those connected with it in their
legalized medicine and their damnable tactics,
many of which you are no doubt aware of. There
never was a corporation or an association in
America that obtains more money under false
pretenses than Doctors are securing and they are
the only people that can bury their mistakes and
the writer has seen quite a few of these mistakes
which ordinary “horse sense” would have saved
and know of many, many more the same as you
no doubt know. These cases include from the
breaking of a child’s neck at child birth to the
attempts to treat and to cure by Radium or X-
ray followed by the foolishness of cutting on a
patient having a cancerous mass weighing many
pounds, for instance, located in the abdomen
and then operating and reducing his vitality
from 3 to 6 weeks in order to get a slice out and
put under the microscope. You know and we
know that the ordinary man with brains would
know that that mass is there should be cured
and it is too big to take out whether it is a Can­
cer or a tumor; therefore, why the operation
unless it is for the purpose of the almighty dol­
lar?
Is there any satisfaction in cutting a person
open to find whether it is Cancer instead of a
tumor and sending you a bill for $200.00? Is
that worth while to bring to the attention of the
American public? We shall not stop until we
have gone through with all efforts to the United
States Senate and see if they want to know the
facts.
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 313
If I were in your position today instead of the
editor of the TNT magazine, I would immediate­
ly get my staff together and say, “Here, if this
TNT magazine at Muscatine, Iowa, can prove
beyond a doubt that this treatment has been
administered for years and without any bad
effects upon the patients and prove that it does
not contain ingredients of any kind that are
poisonous or harmful to human life, and prove
that Cancer is absolutely being cured, it would
become our duty to permit that treatment to be
applied to patients in our Bureau.” *
I have written you frankly, Mr. Hines, know­
ing your position; knowing the influences which
surround your physicians and knowing the power
of the medical association and the powerful
lobbies that many times are no doubt exercised
many times. I am speaking to you for the
benefit of humanity. It is a crime and a stain
upon any medical department that refuses this
treatment to the poor f'olks who are dying every
day in America to the average of possibly over
200,000 yearly. You say that unless it is ap­
proved by the American Medical Association
it could not be accepted.
Pray tell me if you or any other physician can
tell me why it is that physicians all over the
country are using preparations put out today by
some laboratory, listed tomorrow, accepted by
the association the next day and sold to the doc­
tors the day following, not knowing whether the
preparation is any good whatsoever for the treat­
ment that it is being given for.
If the American Medical Association would
be just one half as careful in investigating the
different preparations and say to the manu­
facturers that they should try it for 5 years upon
so many patients and then judge the results,
314 Doctors. Dynamiters and Gunmen
they would be doing more for mankind than the
way they are doi ngThi s fight is just starting
and we intend to go the limit, using all of our
resources and power to bring this to the attention
of the American people and disclose those who
attempt to stop it.
You can help us. This could be brought
forcibly to the attention of those who should be
directly concerned and test patients could be
sent to the Institute here for immediate atten­
tion and judge by what the treatment does for
them.0
Yours truly,
TNT MAGAZINE
NB: AMW Per Norman Baker
A copy of this letter went to the President, as well.
There were no results.
Still Baker did not despair. He learned that
Senator William J. Harris, of Georgia, had introduced
into the Senate on May 16, 1929, Senate Resolution
79, instructing the Commerce Committee or its sub­
committee— it authorized and directed to make a
thorough investigation of the means and methods
whereby the Federal Government may aid in dis­
covering a successful and practical cure for cancer,
to report the same promptly with recommendations,
and to have the cooperation of the Public Health
Service and other bodies in the search. He learned
that the subcommittee was sitting or was about' to
sit in Washington, and he volunteered to appear be­
fore it and produce his cure. This offer went through
Senator Hiram Johnson to Senator Harris. The
latter wired Baker, under date of March 22, 1930:
RELATIVE TO SENATOR JOHNSONS TELE­
GRAM CANCER COMMITTEE IS NOT CON-
I
T he Seats of the Mighty 315
SIDERING CANCER CURES BUT RESOLU­
TION CONFINES COMMITTEE WORK TO
APPROPRIATION NECESSARY FOR FED­
ERAL GOVERNMENT TO COOPERATE IN
CANCER CONTROL
This was, of course, an absurd evasion of the original
purpose of the investigation. Baker answered him
hotly, the same day:
March 22, 1930
Senator Wm. J. Harris,
C/o Senate Office Bldg.
Washington, D. C.
My Dear Senator:
, I thank you for your telegram of the 22nd inst.,
" in answer to my telegram to Senator Johnson, in
which you state your committee is not consider­
ing cancer cures, but resolution to appropriation
necessary for Federal Government to cooperate
in cancer control.
That is just where the officials of the United
States are starting off on the wrong foot. That
is why my associates and I wanted to testify
before your committee. Here are a few things
for your committee to consider.
Why appropriate money to cancer control,
when they are laboring under the delusion that
there is no cure for cancer? If there is a cure
for cancer, why shouldn’t the people of the
United States know it through a committee such
as you, and not be misled by the medical doctors
you have had before your committee, who have
inferred that there is no cure for cancer and that
the only way to combat it is to control cancer in
'its early stages.
Second, do you know that the American Medi­
cal Association knows that there is a cure for
cancer, and have done everything possible to
316 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
suppress it, even to persecuting those connected
with it?
Third, do you know that one person (the de­
tails of which we have) has been arrested about
110 times?
Fourth, do you know that he holds a receipt
signed by the Clerk of Court at Salem, Illinois,
where he pleaded guilty to the terrible crime of
curing cancer, and paid $120 for that crime?
This was after the American Medical Association
surgeons operated, and the cancer had come
back four times as large as before; and today
this man is absolutely cured, well and healthy.
Fifth, do you know that on the 3rd of January,
1930, the Medical Trust of America offered one
million dollars to hush this thing up, and that
offer was refused ? We are able to tell you of a
doctor connected with the American Medical
Association in an executive capacity who can
give you the facts of this1.
Sixth, do you know that a group of newspaper
men, after investigation and becoming convinced
of the truth of this cure, agreed to put it over
with more publicity than Lindy ever received,
providing they could secure 90% of the revenue
from the cancer cure?
Seventh, do you know that offer was refused
and they finally agreed to take 75% of the rev­
enue, which was also refused?
Eighth, do you know that there is an Institute
in Muscatine, Iowa, where there is today over
175 people under treatment, coming here from
Mayo Brothers Clinic, State Universities and
other cancer specialists, where they had been
given up to die, and that the majority of these
people are going home well?
Ninth, do you know that cancer and goiter, re-
1— Harry Hoxgey mad** this statement, which is believed false, since investigation.
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 317
gardless of whether they are internal or external,
are being cured without the use of the knife, X-
ray or Radium?
Tenth, do you know there is not a doctor in the
world who can cure one case of cancer by these
means or has ever benefited them beyond tem­
porary relief, that it always comes back after
operations?
Eleventh, do you know that X-ray and Radium
do more harm in cases of cancer, than good, and
this is recognized by all Medical authorities
excepting those in the Medical Trust?
Twelfth, do you know that 80% of all opera­
tions made in America are upon cancer patients,
and the tune is to about $82,000,000, and there
is about $182,000,000 given to the Medical As­
sociation in operations, treatments and para­
phernalia for treating cancer, which makes it
possible for them to offer one million dollars to
hush up the information we have at hand?
Thirteenth, we are sending you a reprint of
the December, January, February and March
issues of TNT Magazine, which is well worth
your perusal.
Isn’t this kind of evidence you would like to
have before your committee, or is your committee
going to be like the fellow who went out West
to hunt a goldmine, and stepped right over one
he had in his own backyard.
We are being very frank in this matter, be­
cause we see, as a magazine publisher, only that
your committee might appropriate some more of
the taxpayers’ money for something which is not
necessary, and put it into the coffers of the Medi­
cal Trust.
Do you know that we have written to Sergeant
General Cumming, of the Health Department,
your city, asking him to send five cancer pa-
318 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
tients from the U. S. War Veteran’s Bureau, in
order that they might judge upon the results
accomplished, and that they refused to do this,
unless O. K.ed by the American Medical Associa­
tion of Chicago, that giant octopus which has its
tentacles at the throats of every human being
in America?
Do you realize, as publisher of TNT Magazine,
and owner and operator of Radio Station KTNT
of 5000 watts of power, and operating 12 other
kindred enterprises dealing with the Public
nationally, that I couldn’t afford to jeopardize
my reputation by making a remark or a state­
ment which I could not substantiate with facts?
I request that you let the other members of
your committee read this letter, and that you
telegraph immediately if you want my associate
and I to testify before your body. We can give
you more absolute facts on cancer and its control
than all that you have heretofore collected, no
doubt.
Your committee, no doubt, is working on the
control of cancer and seeking appropriations to
spend with these physicians, with the sole
thought that cancer cannot be cured, and that
the only way to stamp out the terrible scourge
is to control it; and in that you are entirely
wrong, because there never was any appropria­
tion of money to stamp out any disease in Ameri­
ca, which was ever successful, and that even in­
cludes your poisonous syphilitic pus, shot into
the arms of the school children for Smallpox,
which will in 40% of the cases, react into syphilis
in later years, as many well-known physicians
know.
Now think this over, Senator; I think we have
given you a line upon some information which
will be great news to you ; I believe it ought to
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 319
come to the Senate, and if we cannot get it there
before your committee, it will go through some
other route.
Ypurs truly,
TNT MAGAZINE
NB:AM Per Norman Baker
INCL.
P.S: In reading and digesting this letter, I
ask only one thing. Whatever action you take,
remember, tomorrow your wife, your mother,
your daughter, your son, or you may be a victim
of that terrible scourge of cancer; and this will
mean they will operate upon you first, then
they’ll burn you with Radium, then treat you
with X-ray and scatter it all over the body—
then the Undertaker signs your death warrant
— unless your committee is broad enough mind­
ed to investigate that which the Association has
condemned.
Remember, there are 50,000 physicians in
America who do not belong to that giant octopus,
which is trying to get the Public’s money.
On March 27th, Senator Harris wrote Baker,
. I . . . assure you it gives me pleasure to refer
this to the committee for their consideration.
Meanwhile, a lengthy letter was sent to Senator
Brookhart, reminding him of the 200 patients then
at the hospital, and urging the investigation; and
another to Senator Harris, stating flatly that the
cancer cure had been discovered, and pleading for a
chance to establish this by testifying before the Sen­
atorial Committee. A further letter got Baker no
further in his effort to achieve at least a hearing.
There must be some way to get his cancer cure
before the people, through the instrumentality of
their government, who could certainly confer on
\
320 Doctors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
greater boon upon humanity, than thus. The whole
thing cried aloud for official government investi­
gation: the monopolistic organization and activities
of the American Medical Association and its spider­
web of subsidiaries; their callous indifference to all
Baker’s efforts to have them investigate his cure;
their definite conspiracy to wreck his mag­
nificent humanitarian enterprise, render worthless
his property and his investments, and perhaps, as
in the “Attack by Dr. Fishbein” incident, darker
things than this. How could Baker win Congress to
the investigation so insistently due, of the whole
matter?
One way occured to him: to go directly to the
executive fountainhead of our government, President
Hoover himself. He had A. M. A. influences
surrounding him, even in his cabinet, of course: Dr.
Work, an ex-president of the A. M. A., had been
Secretary of the Interior while Hoover was in the
cabinet, and now Dr. Wilbur, another high ex­
executive of the same medical group, held the same
position. And there was the President’s private
doctor in the White House, and some A. M. A. inter­
filiations in every single Department. Yet the press
friendly to him had always described him as open-
minded, fearless, courageous. And so Baker
secured an appointment at the White House, during
September, 1930, to bring the matter directly to the
harassed American-born British promoter in whose
hands the executive destinies of his countrymen tem­
porarily resided. After all, Hoover was in the
future to press a golden key that would start the
Midwest Free Press on its splendid courageous
career; perhaps he would press the golden key now,
T h e S eats of th e Mighty 321
and open the door for Baker to world knowledge and
acceptance of the vital Baker cancer cure.
Baker arrived at 10:30 A. M., as requested. He
was told that the President was in conference with
Senator Moses, and would see him at 2:30 P. M.
While he waited around the White House, the
assiduous little White House yelpers of the press
surrounded him, and wanted to know what was his
business with the President. Baker reminded them
that they would not publish the truth, even if he
gave it to them: that they had established that amply
in the past. All that they published was the fact of
Baker’s appointment with the President. Then
Baker dropped around to the Radio Commission,
and was heartily greeted by all members except
Judge Sykes, who curtly pleaded an immediate im­
portant engagement. Blandly Baker told him he
was to see the President at 2:30, which may have
given the commissioner a bad hour or two.
Baker had met Hoover, while Republican nominee,
during «the previous campaign, and had pleasant
memories of this, as well as of Hoover’s exceptional
fairness to him, while, as Secretary of Commerce
under Coolidge, he presided over the Fourth Radio
Conference in Washington, D. C., already referred
to; And now he had a pleasant half hour’s talk
with the harassed executive. Baker explained
swiftly the facts about his cancer cure; of his rebuff
at the hands of Surgeon General Cumming; of his
inability to interest General Hines, Director of the
Veterans Bureau, in the cancer cure as applied to
the suffering veterans. “Why is it, Mr. Baker, that
the American Medical Association fight this cure
of yours?” the President asked. But he smiled as
322 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
he asked it: for he knew. When Baker had ended,
Hoover said, “Give me time to investigate this, Mr.
Baker.” Baker wanted nothing better. He sug­
gested that no big hullabaloo be made about it, but
that twenty-five soldiers and ex-soldiers suffering
with cancer be selected from the War Veterans
Bureau—one-third virgin cases, one-third medium
advanced cases, and one-third cases pronounced in­
curable by the medical department—and, of these,
one-half internal cases, and one-half external cases;
the patients all to be sent to the Baker Hospital at
Muscatine, where they could be under the watchful
eye of a government physician, while Baker’s own
doctors treated them with the Baker cancer treat­
ment. That complete records of all the cases would
be taken, together with photographs, in the case of
the external cancer patients; and that then he him­
self could be the judge of what had been ac­
complished in the cases of these twenty-five test
patients. If he was convinced that the results were
important and encouraging enough to warrant a
federal investigation, it could then be made.
Hoover was plainly interested: he sat back re­
laxed in his chair, and was the opposite of irritated
at both his caller and the subject-matter under dis­
cussion. Baker still is not sure whether or not he
was in earnest, when he asked time to investigate
the matter. If he meant it, he must have found
that he would be blocked at every turn by the forces
of the A. M. A. For, in spite of this brilliant begin­
ning, nothing ever developed from it.
As time passed, and nothing fruited from his long
and arduous efforts to bring man’s collective govern­
ing bodies to do the obvious, logical and sane thing,
T h e S eats op th e Mighty 323
to investigate this cancer cure which would mean
such a tremendous benefit to humanity, Baker must
have grown a little bitter at the politicians’ in­
humanity to man, as he had been sickened by the'
medical callousness and greed toward human suf­
fering, disease, and death. He had gone from the
lowest to the highest, among the government dig­
nitaries, seeking an investigation, of to find some­
one who was interested sufficiently in suffering hu­
manity, and the chance even of relieving mankind
from this awful scourge, to make an effort in the
matter. Not one had helped him. He was at the.
end of his rope, with municipal, county, state, national
government functionaries. There was one other
channel left: strange that he had forgotten it, so long!
And that was the church, the church that called itself
the representatives on earth of the living god, the
followers of that gentle healer who had gone about
all Galilee healing all manner of sickness, and all
manner of disease among the people; whose mere
word, or the touch of the hem of whose garment,
could restore health to lifelong invalids; whose word
to his own chosen band of diciples was:
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the^dead,
cast out devils: freely ye have received,'freely
give.
Surely there could be no rejection from followers
of this ancient gentle physician, so persecuted by the
organized society of his day! And so Norman Baker
went to the Catholics, and to the Protestants, and
begged them to enlist themselves in his shining
humanitarian venture. Without exception, they
turned down his plea. Not theirs to heal the sick;
leave that to the specialized professionals in what
324 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
their Jesus had done so freely and amateurishly, that
is, from love of the healing, and love of man, and
without pay. “
Not theirs to aid Norman Baker heal
sufferers from the scourge of cancer, which organ­
ized medicine admitted it neither understood nor
could cure.
Some of the preachers Baker found worse than
others. One such was, Rev. U. S. Smith1, formerly
pastor of a Muscatine church, who has now found it
best to leave town and move westward. While in
Muscatine, Baker never heard of his open hostility.
When he left the town, it was reliably reported to
Baker that the preacher referred to Baker as “the
cancer faker at Muscatine.” All the time Rev. Smith
was stepping away from the scriptures, condemning
Baker, his wife was afflicted with cancer, and she
was permitted to die of this dreaded disease in 1931,
after all the efforts of his doctor friends with their
usual operation, radium and X-ray treatments, while
a few miles away the Baker Hospital was curing
cancer. Baker has begged him for a debate,
under any auspices, even to leaving the
decision to the preacher’s own supporters in the
congregation of his own church. 'Not too full of
intestinal fortitude, Baker would say of him.
There was another preacher, the Rev. John
Haefner, of the Zion Lutheran Church of Muscatine.
Lest any thing Norman Baker blames him for unfair
hostility without reason, we will come to letters that
Haefner wrote, over his own signature. If what he
did and said seem not consonant with the teachings
of the man-god he professes to follow, let us be for-
1—Rev. Smith’s wife contracted cancer and died. He had continually condemned
the Baker Hospital, and possibly feared going to them after his condemnation
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 325
giving, and say that he has already earned his own
reward in the scorn with which his own soul must
regard its doings; and that these will not be forgotten
when he passes on to whatever state he next qualifies
to occupy.
Well, Baker had knocked at the doors of all of
them, now, and had been refused admittance.
“Knock, and it shall be opened unto you—” strange
how forgetful even preachers could be! This chapter
records as blackly bleak a series of incidents as any­
thing in the book. Forget for a moment that you
know the whole callous melancholy story, and re­
gard it for a moment with fresh eyes.
One hundred and forty thousand people die, every
year, in the United States alone, from cancer. Hid­
eous disfigurements, awful pain, speedy death, are
the portion of those who suffer from it: a blasting
of health and happiness, a withering of all dreams
for the future of the sufferers, a severing of human
ties, sorrow and the agony of separation to the ones
near and dear to the sufferers. ' One hundred and
forty thousand separate individual deaths, each
year. . . . Organized medicine, in the form of the
American Medical Association and its interfiliated
subsidiaries, admits that it does not know what causes
cancer: what spreads it: how to cure it. It recom­
mends its three pet quack nostrums, operations,
which mutilate the already disfigured sufferer, and
never cure: X-rays, which burn and increase cancer,
and never cure: radium treatments, which bum and
increase cancer, but never cure. Through their
greed, they seek to monopolize the role of preying
upon those suffering the agonies caused by the
scourge, for their thirty and many more pieces of
326 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
silver per patient. And now here is a man, a lay­
man, who stumbled on a method that cured cancer,
without mutilating operations, without burning X-
rays, without searing and killing radium. He pro­
ceeded to perfect this method; to his delight, he
found that it worked, that it cured swiftly and easily
what all organized doctordom could not cure. In
noble honesty and sincerity he offered to let the
organized cut-bellies and cut-throats administer it for
him, and get the credit with him, making Muscatine
and its later cancer cure subsidiaries the most famous
health centers in the world. They turned him down.
They fought’ him bitterly. For that he had the
effrontery, the colossal gall, to want men and women
to cease this awful unnecessary suffering, which paid
them so many cents per groan, so many dollars per
scream of agony, so much filthy lucre for each death
rattle that their own ethics and practice unnecessarily
have murdered and are murdering and will murder,
they hounded him, drained him financially, perhaps
instigated a dastardly murderous attack on his very
life. The filthy swine, traitors to every dictate of
decency, to every right expectation that their role
in life is to heal the sick, rather than callously con­
demn them to unnecessary death! This was Baker’s
experience with organized doctordom. This is still
his experience with it. This will be his experience
with it, until an aroused public opinion thunders at
the deaf ears of Washington its demand for an im­
mediate investigation of this murder combine called
the American Medical Association, who insist on
killing off the man who has a cure for cancer, that
they may fatten their pocketbooks forever by killing
the patients with their own fancy frills of burning
T h e Seats of th e Mighty 327
torturing agony!
Alone, one man against the cynical greedy com­
bine and its interlocking allies the aluminum trust
and the like, he knocked on the door of city health
officials and city political powers: he appealed to
the county officials; he pleaded with the State of­
ficials; he implored the national health officials, the
body in charge of the suffering war veterans, the
smug Senate Committee actually considering cancer
cures and control; he went to the insurance compa­
nies, the private foundations to aid man’s efforts
towaird health, the best known medical clinic in the
cpuntry, the fraternal lodges, the churches that call
themselves the churches of Jesus the healer; and
finally he went to the head of the government itself,
the President of the United States, in private con­
ference in the White House. He went to each of
these sessions, my friend, with proofs: affidavits,
photographs of the sufferers before the treatments
were administered, photographs 'of the cured cases.
He had even dared, before crowds of fifty thousand
people, to administer his treatments in the open. He
went a harassed hounded man, illegally and" out­
rageously forbidden by the servile courts of his na­
tive State to conduct a hospital to save' human lives
by this method he alone knew, and wanted to have
become the property of all mankind. God, I would
rather have cut my own throat, than do what they
all did, from the veriest county political lickspittle
to Hoover: Say to Baker, Go back, I won’t help you,
I can’t help you, my hands are tied, I won’t even
investigate or help you get an investigation of your
cancer cure. What they said in effect was, Norman
Baker, you are already a great benefactor of man-
328 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
kind. For that, insofar as our power goes, we con­
demn you to further hounding, persecution, financial
loss and ruin and wreck if possible; we condemn you
to be throttled, to be robbed of your magazine, your
newspaper, your hospital, your radio station; we
condemn the cancer sufferers of the world to suffer
and die, world without end, relief, or rest, all to add
a few dollars to the putrid tills of the doctors who
constitute the hell-inspired conspiracy against medi­
cal freedom, the American Medical Association.
If Americans, if the man in the street and the
women in the home, if the plain common people he
is devoting his life to, if the haggard rich and the
hungry poor are silent under this mounting Everest
of outrages that Norman Baker has suffered,; if the
supine State legislators and the Congressmen and
federal Senators cannot be roused to insist on an
immediate and excoriating investigation of that
murder combine, the American Medical Association;
if an aroused public opinion does not mount like a
tidal wave and insist upon an immediate rectification
of these great and crying evils, we deserve to suffer
and die, all of us, as the victims of these petty belly­
cutting and throat-cutting tyrants we are permitting
to lord it over us. But I believe enough in America
and its sense of fair play and justice, to know that
this condition can not last much more. Come,
America, come swiftly, clean out this infamy, put be­
hind the bars these smug bitter, enemies of human
health and happiness and life who are binding
sufferings from incurable cancer forever upon the
human race, by fighting to the last ditch against the
one real cancer cure available in the world. Come,
T he Seats of the Mighty 329
America, bring back the son of the Archer to the
high esteem he earns with all the shining sons among
men who devote their lives to benefiting mankind.
You are tardy, overtardy, in your justice: act swiftly:
the jails yawn for the organized conspirators against
public health and life; a seat of the highest honor at
your bestowal is empty and waiting for that heroic
battler in man’s cause, Norman Baker.
i
CHAPTER XVI
THE CLOSING OF K-TNT
After one of Baker’s hearings before the Radio
Commission in Washington, D. C., in 19S0, sometime
in the early spring of that year, Baker stopped on his
way home to visit the Federal Radio Inspector at
Chicago, a man whose name he remembers as Hays.
At this time, the commission was appealing to all
radio stations to install a “crystal control” device,
which stabilized the station’s frequency, and kept
the station on its kilocycle channel, thus avoiding
much interference among the stations. The idea,
Baker told the inspector, was a good one: the only
good idea he had ever heard of the commission
having, as yet. He was ready to go ahead and build
the crystal control for K-TNT, Baker told the in­
spector; he wanted a permit for that purpose. The
inspector told Baker to go ahead and construct it;
that a permit was not necessary. Baker did so, and
had it promptly ready to connect and operate.
Knowing that a permit from the Federal Radio Com­
mission was necessary for connecting it, he applied
to the commission at Washington for this permit.
They wrote back that they found no application on
file for a permit to construct such a crystal control,
and sent an application blank back to Baker. Iri
the early summer of 1930 he returned it to Washing­
ton, properly signed. He had completed the crystal
control by this time, and had requested a permit to
operate it. There was no answer to this applica­
tion.
330
T h e Closing of K -TN T 331
Baker wrote repeatedly, with his crystal control'
standing idle, asking why he had received no an­
swer to his application. At length he wrote an in­
sistent letter demanding to know the reason for the
delay. He found out that other stations received
such permits within a few days after they applied.
Now this was the early summer of 1930, and his
enemies at last were getting ready to strike: the
jealous, Muscatine Journal and other papers into
whose advertising receipts K-TNT had gouged; the
American Medical Association, murderously furious
that a layman dared offer to the world a cancer
cure, with its resultant damage to their incomes; the
public utility companies, panicky as always because
of Baker’s insistent preaching of municipal owner­
ship. In the dark, without a sound, they had all
been working for a long time. And now Bakèr was
suddenly summoned to appear for a hearing before
the Federal Radio Commission as to why the license
of K-TNT should not be revoked..
They succeeded in having the commission send its
counsel to Muscatine, for the taking of the testimony
there, to save the expense of having to send their
witnesses to Washington. Practically all witnesses
later went to Washington to testify at the final hear­
ing without a subpoena. The Muscatine hearing,
for taking of testimony, was set for October 4, 1930,
: the hearing in Washington was set for sixteen days
later. Now it was that the commission replied to
Baker’s insistent letters about the crystal control:
since K-TNT had been cited for hearing before it, it
wrote back, now that he was cited for a hearing the
commission had decided not to grant the permission
until the hearing had been concluded. Of course.
332 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
after the hearing the crystal control was not permit­
ted to be used; which cost Baker several thousand
dollars, for his mere willingness to cooperate with the
commission’s ideas.
No doubt they had stalled Baker all summer,
knowing what things were writhing under the surface
in Muscatine. A few dates may help us here. The
petition from Dr. C. H. Kinnaman, epidemiologist
for the Kansas State Board, against Baker was filed
August 15, 1930, the Muscatine County Medical
Society’s circular letter, antagonistic to Baker,
already included in a previous chapter, was
sent out April 4, 1930. The letter from the State
medical society went out June 20th following. The
libelous article causing the half million suit against
A. M. A. was published on April 12, 1930. It
seems evident, from the commission’s unusual dil­
atoriness in the matter- of the Baker application, that
the Washington authorities knew, as early as the
spring of 1930, that the ax was being sharpened,
and had been planned to fall on the husky neck of
the vigorous station. The Kansas City Star, was
among the first, if not the first newspaper to reprint
the slanderous editorial from the Journal of the
American Medical Association against Baker.
The announcement of the hearing listed no reason
or grounds of complaint against K-TNT. Baker
wrote at once, and several times again, asking the
commission what the complaints were, even though
they preferred not to give the names of those com­
plaining. He was given no information. He went
to Washington, and asked for this information in
person from the Commissioners. They gave him no
satisfaction. The commission functioned as an arbi-
The Closing of K-TNT 333
trary and dictatorial body; its precise activities in
this case—Baker may not know this—are legally
described as “taking property without due process of
law,” forbidden in the national Constitution. Any
defendant is entitled to know the complaint against
him: but the commission did not function in any
legal, open, and honest manner. It hid the com­
plaints entirely. All that Baker was told was that his
station was not serving public interests, convenience
and necessity. Selling goods more cheaply than
anyone else, and better goods too, and saving money
to the people— opposed to the public interest ? Then
the commissien limited “public” to his rival
merchants. Saving lives with actual cures in his
cancer hospital, not serving the public interest?
Then the commission limited “public” to the greedy
conspirators of the A. M. A. Baker pleaded for time
so that he could prepare his evidence to rebut them,
and so that he could correct anything that was wrong.
Their lips were sealed.
Baker went to the Chief of the commission’s legal
department, a Mr. Brown, an Indiana political work­
er, from the State that gave Tom Taggart to the
nation. Baker asked Brown what the complaints
were. — You’ll find out later, was all that he was
told. Baker flung the truth right at him: “Brown,
I know who the complainants are. They are a
bunch of doctors who are jealous of me, because we
are curing cancer, and have guts publicly to broad­
cast the fact, without any fear of their being able
successfully to deny it.” Brown shrugged; but
Baker was mistaken, he insisted. There were no
complaints about his station’s cancer activities. Today
this same Mr. Brown is one of the elect, one of the
334 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
members of the Radio Commission, thanks to the
political loyalty of Senator Watson of Indiana, who
had previously lifted him for local gratitude to the
position of chief of the commission’s legal depart­
ment. Alas for the public interest, the commission
today has no mechanical or electrical expert on
radio matters on it: it consists of a group of judges,
lawyers, and public utility /receivers. Scientific
radio aptitude is ignored, the farming classes, labor,
the general public, are ignored.. To a man they are
staunch supporters of the radio trust. That they
are collectively misfits in these positions is obvious:
such collective subserviences can no more run the
country’s radio affairs successfully than they could
run a farm or an undertaking establishment success­
fully. But this was the tribunal that sat in judgment
over Baker and K-TNT; and it did not cause his heart
to leap, when he considered their stooping postures.
On October 4th, then, in the courtroom of a
justice of the peace in Muscatine, the commission held
its hearing to take the testimony of Baker’s Iowa
enemies. W. L. Walker, of Washington, assistant
counsel of the commission, represented them. In
spite of what Brown had said, about no complaints
concerning Baker’s cancer work, many of the wit­
nesses were doctors. Even the press had put Baker
on notice that this was the gravamen of the complaint.
On August 15th, a dispatch from Washington had
said that the medical profession had been “maligned,
abused, and falsified” by statements made over
K-TNT; that the complaints came from the State
Board of Health of Kansas; that an affidavit of Dr.
C. H. Kinnaman, epidemiologist for the Kansas of­
ficial medicos, declared that he repeatedly heard the
Th e Closing of K -TN T 335
speaker “claim to cure cancer in any stage”,
and that he had urged sufferers “to keep
away from the ‘slaughter house,’ the State University
hospital at Iowa City.” Dr. Kinnaman, in later press
stories, had grown eloquent over his board’s sponsor­
ing of immunization against diphtheria, typhoid fever
and smallpox; whereas speakers over K-TNT had
repeatedly attacked this immunization.
The hearing. The witnesses against Baker. Here
is Dr. Andy Hall, Director on the Board of the
Department of Public Health for the State of Illinois.
He testifies that he has had stenographic notes made
of talks made over K-TNT. He became a little
fussed, when he admitted that he was not even
present at the Elks Club when the stenographer took
down the K-TNT talk; but he had heard the same
talk over another set, he insisted. What had he
objected to? To Baker’s remarks, protesting against
the dropping of preventive medicine in a newborn
baby’s eyes; against the chlorinating of water;
against orthodox methods of treating appendicitis.
The doctor admitted that Illinois had no compulsory
vaccination law; but his board stood for vaccination,
he said. On cross examination, the doctor objected
to words of Baker, in which he had said that small­
pox vaccination was, or might be, syphilitic cow pus.
He defined vaccine as being secured from healthy
heifers: even a schoolchild knows that this is im­
possible, and that the heifer has to be infected, before
the vaccine can be secured. He was not even aware
that the heifer is as a rule infected with smallpox
from a human being, to produce the vaccine, and that
syphilis might conceivably be conveyed so. Dr. Hall,
a bit fussed, admitted that there was no positive test
INTERIOR VIEW S OF K-TNT
Looking' from No. 1 into No. 2 Studio.
T h e Closing op K-TNT 337
as to whether a human being had syphilis or not. He
said that the value of vaccination was not in dispute
any longer— even though his own State did not
require it. He wasn’t positive how many States did
require it. The vaccines used were purchased, he
said, from reputable concerns; these had tested them
before they were sent out, but the State Board of
Health did not test them. When asked whether or not
the A. M. A. urged the State boards of health to en­
courage vaccination, he evaded by saying that all
sensible medical men encouraged it. By sensible
medical men, he said, he excluded osteopaths; but
he thought that homeopaths practiced the same sort
of medicine as allopaths; although, of course, their
methods are directly at variance.
The doctor was dismissed. Came Dr. R. C. Smith,
of Onslow, Iowa. He had been a doctor six years;
he had been to the Iowa State University. He was
not an allopathic doctor, he testified; he was a
.physician of the regular school: in other words, the
brilliant young medic did not even know what sort
of a doctor he was. He swore he had never studied
in the allopathic school of medicine; that he had
never heard the term used; that he didn’t even know
what the term meant. He testified as to four broad-.
casts of Baker’s, on which he had taken notes. A
few of his gems, reputed to be Baker’s words, were:
that the Iowa State Medical Board was “sending
Herman Carlson around the State trying to get people
to steal for them” . . . . —That the A. M. A. figured
how much poison each child’s body could stand, and
how much they could get out of giving this poison;
and that each one was bled on an average of ?19.
That sweet blushing schoolgirls of 16 were vaccinated
338 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
onthe leg, and the listeners knew why. That parents
slept in the same bed with the school nurse. And
so on. On cross examination, he grew very con­
fused as to what vaccine was made from, and how it
was made; he admitted finally that he simply didn’t
know.
Alfred C. Brandenburg, of Clinton, Iowa, an ex­
court reporter, was on hand with transcripts of what
he stated were ten of Norman Baker’s talks over
K-TNT, between May 6th and 14th. He had taken
some of his notes, he said, at Dr. Howe’s, in Muscatine,
and some at Dr. Beveridge’s, in Muscatine. He had
been employed, he said, by Dr. Beveridge to take the
notes. He was hazy as to who had paid him, at
first. He was recalled later in the afternoon, and
testified that the Muscatine Journal had given him
the check for his services.
It may now be increasingly clearer to you that
Norman Baker has not exaggerated one whit the
group colleagued against him. The Muscatine County
Medical Society, the Muscatine Journal, doing their
dirty work together: here is the proof, out of the
mouth of one of their own sworn witnesses.
Then came Jessie H. Easson, a court reporter of
Muscatine. She had her own stenographic notes of
some of Baker’s talks. A lot of Baker’s talks. She
had commenced taking them down at the request of
Dr. T. F. Beveridge, of Muscatine. Her checks were
signed by the Muscatine County Medical Association,
by Dr. Emerson, their treasurer. She admitted that
she had at times corrected Baker’s grammar, in
transcribing her notes. A few times she had taken
her notes in Dr. Beveridge’s house. Most of the
talks she had taken down in the house of one Bomke,
T he Closing of K -TN T 339
an employee in the Muscatine postoffice who had
previously been reported to the Postmaster General
in Washington, by Baker, for improper mail service.
The combined reports of these two reporters, of these
Baker talks, made a stack of typewritten sheets six
or seven inches high. Of these thousands of pages,
four lines were read into the hearing at Washington.
But they served their purpose; they ran up the bill for
costs against Baker.
And then came Mrs. Bernadine Smith, of Onslow,
wife of the doctor who didn’t dream that he was an
allopath. She testified that she had taker! down the
note in longhand; that the man who spoke was not
a pretty rapid talker, but.spoke “just moderately”—
and take my word for it, Norman Baker is about the
fastest speaker I have ever listened to; that she took
down “all I wanted; I didn’t attempt to take all of
it” ; that she took down about 80% of “the part she
wanted,” and “filled in the best I could” the other
20% ; that the Muscatine County Medical Society had
requested her husband to take down the notes.
Came Margaret Griffith, stenographer and general
female factotum at the Muscatine Journal. During
the week of May 9, 1930, she testified, she had had
to answer the phone at the Journal office; she had
taken down, during that time, over thirty-five
messages cancelling subscriptions to the Journal;
that practically every one made the same comment,
that “they didn’t want that dirty old paper any
longer; that they were for Norman Baker; that they
<were through with the Journal, and to stop it at
once.” On cross examination, she testified that an
advertisement submitted to her for the Journal, to
appear on September 26, 1930, advertising an ad-
340 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
dress to be broadcast by Judge.Rutherford, had
omitted the local station’s name, which was handed
in on the copy: that is, that the name of station
K-TNT had been stricken out. She knew it had been
there, because she saw it scratched out.
Came another stenographer, one Mrs. Edwin B.
Fulliam1, with bigger and better dirt against Baker
—little snatches of a sentence or two she said she
had taken down from his speeches, reflecting on the
domestic misconduct of the publisher of the Musca­
tine Journal, and saying that K-TNT would continue
on the air, even if its license was revoked; that it
would take the State militia to put them off. Nobody
lingered long with her, and she is now nursing her
husband for reported cancer of the nose. Came
Edith Games, bookkeeper for the Muscatine Journal;
she too testified as to phone cancellations to the local
Lee sheet during the fateful week of May 9th; that
10% of these gave a reason; that this reason was
that Norman Baker had told them to do it. Poor
girl, nobody cross-examined her. Came Louis C.
Boice, circulation manager for the same sheet. He
too testified about that week of May 9th, and about
people cancelling the paper because “it was a dirty
sheet, that they didn’t want it in their homes; and
they stated that Mr. Baker had advised them to call
the Muscatine Journal office and stop their Journal.”
Nobody, however, he said, had said this to him in
person. That the total number of cancellations had
been around 2^4% of the total subscriptions.
And that was all.
i—Since testifying, Mrs. Fulham's husband, Dr. Ed. Fulliam suffered from a
condition of nose that some stated, may be cancer. Local doctors failed oo
his case aad he was treated at Iowa State Uaiversity. Time will tell.
16
T h e Closing of K -TN T 341
On to Washington, on October 20th. Baker had
been tipped off at second hand by a real estate man
and ex-senator, George M. Titus of Muscatine, that
the station would be closed. Similarily, Clyde
Rabedeaux of the Journal, at a noonday meeting of
the Chamber of Commerce or the Commercial Club,
when a movement was proposed to save K-TNT,
arose and said in substance, “It’s no use, boys; things
are all set.”
Six volunteer witnesses appeared against Baker
at this hearing. One was Herman Carlson, State
Medical Board Investigator of Iowa. He swore that
he had heard the broadcast from K-TNT at fifteen
minutes to 1 o’clock, on May 6th. Baker had come
armed with full data as to every minute he had been
on the air. Baker’s accurate records showed that
the station had not even been on the air at that time.
So trustworthy were the witnesses against him!
This perjury, demonstrated by Baker before the
commission, brought no effort at punishment.
Dr. Beveridge, of Muscatine, and his wife, were
also volunteer witnesses; and they brought along
their preacher, a Rev. Tom Fogelsong, pastor of a
church dominated by the Beveridges. Dr. Bever­
idge said that it was against his will that the Baker
Cancer Hospital was permitted to be kept open.
Dr. Beveridge, of course, at the time was connected
with the Hershey Hospital at Muscatine, whose
business had dropped off materially, at the success­
ful rivalry of the Baker institution. Baker had
charged outright that Beveridge had never cured a
cancer patient in his life, that all of his cancer pa­
tients had died: Beveridge hardly adored this reve­
lation. He gave his prejudiced testimony, as did
342 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
his wife and the preacher of their church. George
Hinshaw, an ex-editor of the Muscatine Journal, was
another volunteer witness, a man whom Baker had
defeated repeatedly, when he proposed some such
matter as giving away city lands to the railroads.
He said that the programs from K-TNT were worth­
less, and consisted entirely, at the noon hour, of
phonograph records. Baker established, from his
accurate records, that no phonograph records had
been played during the noon hour for years; that
these were used, and then sparsely, only in the early
morning and sometimes in the afternoon. But there
was no prosecution for perjury, for this.
Mrs. Beveridge had testified that Baker ignored
religion in his broadcasts. Baker introduced evidence
showing that every Sunday for years there had been
a religious program of an hour, or more; that this
time was given free of charge to any church that
would send its minister to talk over K-TNT, whether
he be Protestant, Catholic, or Jew. The station
prided itself upon its open-mindedness in religion.
But such was the dishonest evidence that was admit­
ted by the commission, in spite of Baker’s precise
proof that it was all untrue.
During the trial, attorney Fisher, for the com­
mission, introduced the stack of typewritten pages
six or seven inches high, with thousands of pages, the
stenographic reports formerly introduced in the
Muscatine hearing before Justice of the Peace Horst.
Only material from one page of all these was used
by the commission’s attorneys, in their cross exam­
ination. But they did swell the bill of costs to stag­
gering proportions. Baker’s attorneys pleaded for
the introduction merely of the paragraphs or lines in
T h e Closing of K -TN T 343
question, plus at most a few pages before and after
the moot points. This was not done.
For instance, there was the evidence introduced
to establish that Baker had used obscene and indecent
language over K-TNT. The testimony was that
Baker had used the word “testicles” over the air.
Between you and me, and Baker may not agree,
“testicles” is no more obscene and indecent than
head or foot, if used soberly and properly. Nor had
Baker used it. On the occasion in question, he was
talking before the microphone one evening, when
the Journal was banging away most vehemently at
Baker. One of his assistants, Harry Hoxsey, ap­
proached Baker, while he was talking over the mi­
crophone, and said in substance, “Look, Mr. Baker,
they have got your and my pictures in the paper to­
night. It even shows your spectacles.” He laid the
paper on the announcer’s desk. The witness testi­
fied that Hoxsey had said, in substance, “Look, Mr.
Baker, they have got your and my pictures in the
paper tonight. It even shows your testicles.” If
anything can be funnier or more absurd than giving
any credence whatsoever to any such alleged remark,
which no one in his sanity could ever have made;
which was introduced in a two-line speech only
removed from its context, out of testimony of steno­
graphic reports coming over a bad radio set, I want
to hear it. But in-it went, silly little lie that it was,
since it gave one more lever against Baker, to the low
selfish colleaguing interests so anxious to get rid of
his clear courageous voice qver the air.
More and more Baker discovered that the hearing
was a cut-and-dried thing. One man, who knew the
ins and outs of Washington, and who still retained
344 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
some admiration for Baker’s long vigorous fight
against the powers that be, called him aside into the
hallway: “What are you wasting your time here for,
Baker? It’s just time and money thrown away.
They reached the verdict before the trial com­
menced.” More and more Baker discovered that the
man was right. Examiner Yost, who was presiding
over the hearing for the commission, permitted these
volunteer critics of Baker’s station to testify that
K-TNT’s programs were worthless; that it had few
listeners, and the like. Baker promptly sought to.
introduce evidence that his radio station was the
most popular in the world. He had pictures showing
his Sunday crowds every Sunday in the summer,
crowds seldom under 5,000 people, and rising up to
7,000, 18,000, 32,000, and 50,000 visitors all as­
sembled at the same time, to visit a radio station—
such a thing was never heard of, in the whole history
of radio in America! Baker told of the problems
of parking cars to accommodate 50,000 visitors in one
day; of his lawn studio, his seating arrangements for
over a thousand people, the huge circus tent erected
for shade; of his having to carry heavy liability in­
surance against the risk of an accident to these im­
mense crowds. The Examiner listened to it all with
lidded eyes. Perhaps he could not even credit it,
that any one man, any one radio station, in the world
could attract like that. A rotten worthless station,
an unpopular station— this was what the verdict
would have to be: somehow justice closed her ears
to the proof to the contrary. Baker’s attorneys
offered to introduce into the evidence an actual
large-sized photograph of the crowd of 50,000 at­
tending the station in one day: or, at least, of as
T h e Closing op K -TN T 345
many of them as the camera could include. “No,”
said Examiner Yost flatly, “you can’t introduce that.
That’s not evidence, in this hearing.” He excluded
it.
“That’s all, gentlemen.” The Examiner looked
down at his desk; he may have been trying to make
sure that he had forgotten nothing. “The hearing’s
over.” The records were all handed to him. The
attorneys, for Baker, for the commission, were stuff­
ing their used and unused ammunition into their brief
cases. Baker rose with the rest, and started to
leave the room. Suddenly through the crowd came
a Washington, D. C., attorney, named Hansen, who
represented the medical group allied against Baker.
“Examiner, here is a brief of the Iowa Medical Society
and others, in this case.” It was at once permitted
to go in.
A brief, on behalf of the Iowa Medical Society,
the Illinois Medical Society., the Muscatine County
(Iowa) Medical Society, the Commissioner of Public
Health of the State of Iowa, the Director of Public
Health of the State of Illinois, the Director of Public
Health of the State of Nebraska, T. F. Beveridge,
L. C. Howe, M. P. Bomke, Herman B. Carlson and
C. H. Pitchforth. A queer document. Let’s see
just what the charges were, as summed up by the
bitter opposition:
The record discloses the fact that Baker has
constantly and consistently used his station in
attacking established institutions and individuals
who had incurred his animosity.
Granted. All crooked dishonest institutions and
individuals, all organized thieves by night and
murderers and anti-social forces of every nature, had
346 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
“incurred his animosity,’’ as the brief put it. Graft­
ing politicians and political gangs preying on the
public, selfish public utilities milking and gouging the
public, bankers and mortgage men and usurers fat­
tening off the needs of farmers and laborers, all
these had “incurred his animosity.” Callous con­
scienceless organized doctors, best only in mis­
diagnosing ailments and in charging extortionate
fees for useless and harmful treatments, for opera­
tions, X-rays and radium for cancer, for instance—
organized doctors who rejected the one real cure for
cancer, refused even to investigate it, to perpetuate
their blood-toll on human agony and death—these
“incurred his animosity.” The servile sycophantic
discredited Muscatine Journal and the other whores
of the press—these “incurred his animosity.” Grant
it, gentlemen: all you have said, so far, is a high
crown in Baker’s favor. But have you anything
against him? Oh— that he attacked these “establish­
ed institutions and individuals.” You’re indicting
him for having the manhood, the decency, the mag­
nificent Americanism to protest against your filthy
gouges? Grant it, gentlemen: this is a higher crown
in Baker’s favor. Haven’t you anything against him?
He is engaged in “numerous other business ac­
tivities, all of which are advertised extensively over
his station:” listing TNT magazine, Baker Institute
— (do you forget you’ve kicked him out of this il­
legally and unfairly, you squirmers under - the
ground?), Progressive Publishing Company, “the
purpose'of which originally was to establish a daily
evening newspaper in competition with the Musca­
tine Journal which resulted in the publication of the
Midwest Free Press” (But are you such asses that
T h e Closing of K-TNT 347
you can use this as a complaint?), merchandising of
tires, gasoline, books, radio equipment, etc. . . .
The A. M. A., the brief proceeds, have “differed
with Baker’s theories and practices in connection
with the treatment of cancer at the Baker Institute.”
— More shame to you, you mutilators by operations
and burners and killers by X-ray and radium! “Be­
cause of their disapproval of his methods,” (and
their dirty underground warfare—they leave that
out, notice) ”—they have been attacked in broad­
casts by Baker over KTNT on numerous occasions.”
And so it goes on, listing Baker’s finest activities as
grounds to close his station: moaning that he has
called the A. M. A. the American Meatcutters As­
sociation and the American Mummy Association;
that M. D. stood for More Dough; that the doctor
members of the A. M. A. were charlatans and quacks;
that the members “without exception”—a lie, as all
Baker’s words establish— were held up to the public
as being unscrupulous, immoral, inefficient, money-
mad malpractitioners. It would have been pretty
close to the truth, if he had said it thus; he always
carefully exempted the honest decent members in
his words, and urged them to leave the malodorous
medical octopus. It goes on to list Baker’s direct
attacks on certain doctors: but, since the doctors
deserved these attacks, all the more credit to Baker
for having the guts to use his station to benefit the
community, instead of being silent on crying evils
and abuses!
They complain of Baker’s common-sense advice
regarding the treatment of an inflamed appendix:
treason, this, to the branch of human butchering
called surgery, but high fidelity to the best interests
348 D octors, Dyn am iters and Gunmen
of men and women. They object to Baker’s proof
that smallpox vaccine might be syphilitic cow pus,
though he had established this possibility in both
hearings. They complain of Baker’s direct attack
upon one of the State Health Inspectors of Iowa—
including the charge that he had entered a hotel
drunk, with a drunken woman companion. But if this
had been untrue, why was not Baker sued for libel ? If
it was true, it was his duty to call attention to it,
and he did. Baker had called the Attorney General
of Iowa a damned coward, said the brief. Baker
testified he never used profane language over the
air; maybe he should have used it, in this instance.
Baker had charged certain people with being prosti­
tutes and abortionists. Note, please, that the brief
does not state that any of these remarks of Baker’s
were untrue: he is indicted for saying these things,
as if lack of tact in dealing with a rattlesnake is a
virtue! They complain of Baker’s direct attacks on
the Muscatine Journal; from what little I know of
the paper, Baker under-stated the facts in every
instance: he should have bit them harder. All this
endangered the “public health”, the brief said: the
public health being construed by them to mean the
right of organized doctordom to throttle a real cancer
cure, and condemn mankind forever to agony and
death from cancer, accompanied by an enormous
blood-toll to the surgeons and doctors of the A. M.
A. His activities, the brief continued, “are con­
ducive to the creation of trouble and unrest.” Thank
God they are! For when Muscatine and Iowa and
the United States are ridden by quacks, grafters,
and skunks in human attire, it is time to waken the
people to trouble and unrest. If this is not done
T h e Closing of K -TN T 349
in the open, as Baker did, it will be done in the
darkness: and bloody revolution must ensue. Free­
dom of speech means the right to make such com­
plaints openly, that the conditions may be cured; the
denial of freedom of speech drives the sufferers into
furtive underground conspiracies, which end in the
bloody extinction of the grafters, quacks, and skunks
in human attire: less than they deserve, in all fair­
ness, but still it makes rather a mess in public places,
and it is more to the public interest to have them
quietly shelved and pushed out of public life, than
to have them lynched and murdered in public, which
again they deserve. In Russia no freedom of speech
was permitted: we had, as a result, the extermina­
tion there of a vast social class, the preying aristo­
crats. If freedom of speech is denied generally in
America, as it was to Baker, we will have our bloody
uprising here, and the lives of the public thieves and
murderers will be taken in the sight of high heaven,
and innocent blood will be spilled too. Take warn­
ing now, you filthy un-American preyers upon the
public: do to other men of courage and love of man­
kind as you did to Norman Baker, and you will reap
a harvest so bloody that only your stinking flyblown
carcasses will remain, to lesson future ages of the
peril of denying free speech to real men and women!
Whose names are signed to this brief, after the
resonant public health officials, all shrinking and
trembling because Baker’s honest forthright attacks
have jeopardized their hideous monopoly upon
matters pertaining to health? T. F. Beveridge. L.
C. Howe. M. P. Bomke. But where is the “Doctor”
that should be prefixed to these names, where is the
“M. D.” and the “D. D
\ S.” that should be affixed to
350 D octors, Dyn am iters and Gunmen
them? Beveridge is a doctor. Howe is a doctor.
Bomke is a dentist. He had started to build a
calliope of his own as a competitor of Baker. He
hired a discharged employee of Baker, and had spent
in the neighborhood of $1,500 in a futile effort to
make his instrument play. He had sold furs and
tinkered with his calliope, between his hours of
pulling teeth. He had been before the Grand Jury
at Muscatine for buying stolen automobile tires.
Some asked if he paid $3,000 for a counterfeiting
machine, and been bilked like any simple sucker out
of the money, and had been unable to bring the man
into court, if he had tried to do this. The courts do
not protect the individual who tries to defraud the
government by counterfeiting. Dentist Bomke. . . .
Herman B. Carlson: an employee of the doctors,
against whom Baker had said enough, and truth­
fully enough. C. H. Pitchforth, a politician under
fire for serious malfeasance, whom Baker had in one
week’s campaigning overwhelmingly defeated for
reelection, with a young and untried rival, Kenneth
Coder. These were the signers of this Declaration
of Enforced Dependence, this written plea to end
freedom of speech in Muscatine.
The brief of Baker’s attorney held one unanswer­
able gem, in referring to his medical opponents:
No spirit of public interest inspires the efforts
of these people to ruin the business of this ap­
plicant. They are plainly trying to use the
commission to censor all dissemination of
knowledge contrary to their narrow views.
Baker had attacked two physicians by name ? These
were Beveridge and Howe, of course; and he did it
only when the Iowa Supreme Court sustained judg-
T h e Closing op K -TN T 351
ment for twenty thousand dollars, for grossly in­
juring a patient with X-ray treatments.
In spite of all this, Examiner Yost did what the
organized bitter small-town medicos desired: he
recommended to the commission the closing of
K-TNT, that $750,000 investment of Norman Baker’s.
What to him that this meant closing the most popular
radio station in America, one that had the fervent
following and acclaim of the actual radio listeners?
If not, why did they flock to cancel their subscriptions
to the malodorous Muscatine Journal, at Baker’s
mere hint, or at his direct request? What to him
that the persecution’s own testimony showed that
Dr. Beveridge had hired a stenographer, and that
the Muscatine Journal had paid him? If this did
not establish conspiracy, in God’s name what would?
What to him that this action of his would be a stab
in the vitals at free speech, and another step toward
the complete monopoly on things medical in the
hands of the grasping belly-cutting, throat-cutting
American Medical Association? He recommended
that K-TNT be closed.
Upon this recommendation, the Federal Radio
Commission revoked the license of K-TNT. A
unanimous decision. Harold LaFount, E. O. Sykes,
Ira E. Robinson, C. McK. Saltzman, W. D. Starbuck,
all unanimous against free speech, and in favor of the
medical monopoly. Baker had called Starbuck a
New York politician, which he was. Baker had re­
minded LaFount that he was a Public Utility Receiver
of the Private Utility gang. Saltzman had urged
Baker not to continue to fight the radio chain stations.
Baker had fought Sykes’ confirmation as commis­
sioner. Sykes had protested to Baker against Baker’s
352 Doctors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
clear contention that the previous commission had
discriminated against K-TNT, in cutting his power,
and misrepresenting the power of his transmitter, and
so on. Sykes had a son, a law student, working, at this
very time, in the office of Elisha Hanson, the Wash­
ington, D. C., attorney who represented the medical
interests against Baker in this very hearing. Nice fair-
minded impartial judges Baker had to be tried by.
And so they closed his station, the most popular
radio station in the world. It still stands on its hill
above the turgid, turbid Mississippi, the loveliest
building in Muscatine. There are weeds seven feet
high in front of it, all around it. The doctors did
that. The Muscatine Journal did that. The com­
mission did that. It can open in thirty days, if its
rights are restored. Will the American people lie
supine before this crying injustice, and permit for­
ever Baker’s property, used to fight in favor of
humanity, be taken from him, at the behest of these
greedy private interests? I don't believe so. I be­
lieve in America, believe in mankind, and its ultimate
fairness. Let’s start the ball rolling now, to retire
the unworthy ones, and restore Baker and free speech
to the air!
CHAPTER XVII
BAKER’S FINAL BROADCAST OVER K-TNT
There were only two legal channels of appeal for
Baker to choose between. The regular channel was
to the Court of Appeals; the more impressive one,
to the United States Supreme Court. Baker’s Wash­
ington attorneys, Mathews and Trimble, recommend­
ed the Supreme Court. It sent the case back to the
Court of Appeals.
Baker appealed to this body. The Federal Radio
Commission introduced its thousands of pages of
useless and incompetent testimony, not used in the
actual hearing at all, as has been pointed out. This
would pad the records, and force a gigantic bill for
costs on Baker. The clerk of the Court of Appeals
sent Baker a bill for over $5,000, the cost of printing
the record, which must be paid before the case could
proceed. But the stock market crash of 1929 had
nipped Baker; he had placed a $50,000 mortgage on
his Muscatine property; he did not have the cash.
He appealed to the attorneys for the commission to
omit the superfluous records, using only those neces­
sary properly to present their case. They refused to
cut out one silly irrelevant page. After all persua­
sion had failed, Baker’s attorneys asked the court for
an extension of time. Thirty days were granted.
At the end of that time, Baker was worse off than
ever before financially. The American Savings
Bank, at Muscatine, in which he had his deposits, had
closed, in the meantime; its doors have never since
been opened. On top of this, the Davenport Com-
353
354 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
mercial and Savings Bank closed, with more of
Baker’s money tied up.
Baker pleaded for an extension until March, a
mere sixty days. On November 21,1931, he received
an official reply:
Supplementing my letter to you dated the 9th
instant, this is to inform you that the Court to­
day denied a motion for further extension of
time to make the deposit for printing in your
case against the Radio Commission, No. 5418,
until and including March 31, 1932.
Thus Baker was denied an appeal, because local
Iowa bankers had his money tied up in their closed
banks. Because the costs in the case had been pad­
ded so outrageously, that only a rich man could even
appear to ask for justice. Because justice, in
America, is made so expensive, that it is out of the
reach of the common people entirely. Because,
except by paying a preliminary toll and gouge of
$5,000 and over, Baker, right or wrong, was not
allowed to have his case heard at all. Because we
all have to suffer from this exorbitant and extortion­
ate price set by our overlords upon a mere applica­
tion for justice. If things like this are not remedied,
there is no way that our land can escape a bloody
revolution. Baker’s station was closed, because
"moneychangers in the temple,” to use President
Roosevelt’s magnificent phrase in his first inaugural,
had broken the nation’s credit, forced a condition
worse than a panic, and had swirled this one cour­
ageous Iowa fighter down, in their greedy assault
on the pockets of all of us.
The commission voted promptly to close the
courageous station: Baker was given no notice at
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 355
all. In the late afternoon he received a telegram:
Washington, D. C., June 12, 1931
Norman Baker,
KTNT,
Muscatine, Iowa
COMMISSION HAS RECEIVED ORDER FROM
COURT OF APPEALS DISTRICT OF COLUM­
BIA VACATING STAY ORDER OF JUNE
FIFTH NINETEEN THIRTY ONE IN YOUR
CASE STOP COMMISSION DIRECTS YOU TO
DISCONTINUE TRANSMITTING ON RECEIPT
OF THIS TELEGRAM
James W. Baldwin, Secretary
3 :20 P. M. FEDERAL RADIO COMMISSION
Time had elapsed, more than Baker asked for; but
the court had closed its ears to his case. And now
he was given not one minute to close: he was to
"discontinue transmitting on receipt of this tele­
gram.” Immediate confiscation of property, a
$750,000 investment closed without five minutes of
grace . . . . This is called justice, in America.
Baker read the telegram a second time. He laid
the yellow flimsy on his desk. He thought only one
thing: “A seven hundred and fifty thousand dollar
business shot to hell.” That was the actual invest­
ment; the total loss, figured conservatively from the
income of his various businesses, would bring the
figure closer to a million and a half dollars. Baker
walked firmly out to the office of his secretary, and
laid the telegram on her desk: “The jig’s up. I’m
going to give a farewell talk over K-TNT from the
microphone here in my private office. You may tell
all the employees, if they want to hear it, that they
may come into my private office. The old man’s
356 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
got a few final things to say. They may want to
hear him.”
They came in, from all directions. The men, the
women even, hurriedly brought in chairs, as noise­
lessly as possible. Every inch of the large office was
crowded with the horror-struck and loyal fighters in
Norman Baker’s army. Baker called another secre­
tary: “Get out your notebook. I want you to take
down my last words over K-TNT.” He was too
stunned to be angry. He gritted his teeth; some day
someone was going to pay for this: that was all he
would let himself think. All open and above-board,
too; they might fight as furtively as their natures
demanded; he was too much of a man to fight like a
thug.
All the employees were asembled. They had
phoned to the radio station, and had had them
announce that K-TNT had been ordered off the air
immediately; they had requested that all the listeners
telephone to their friends to tune in at once, for
Norman Baker’s final words over K-TNT. No time
for forethought, no time for preparation, no time for
any arrangement. Norman Baker stepped firmly up
to the microphone, and spoke.
BAKER’S FAREWELL BROADCAST
Well folks, before I start this talk, I am going to
give you 5 minutes to call all of your friends, all of
your farm folk out in the fields, and your neighbors;
call them in to hear this talk, because the Court of
Appeals has decided that Station K-TNT must go
off the air immediately, and that is now—right after
this talk. And we must stay off the air until the
Court of Appeals has time to review the case of Radio
Station K-TNT and to review the decision of the
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 357
Federal Radio commission, which will come before
the Court of Appeals, possibly it might not be until
fall. So this may be the last talk that you will hear
from Norman Baker over Radio Station K-TNT.
It is now about five minutes after two o’clock, and
I am giving you five minutes to call all of your friends
and folks in and have them tune in to K-TNT, as the
message I have for you is one that I believe you will
be interested in hearing. Now I am going to ask
the folks at the .station to go ahead and give you a
little musical program, and I am going to turn the
microphone right back to them until ten minutes
after two. That will be five minutes yet, in which
you will have time to have all of your friends assem­
bled. Now the boys at the studio please go ahead
with the program for five minutes. But folks be
sure and ’phone your friends, no. matter where they
are. Get them in out of the fields and everywhere,
everybody, for I have many things of interest to you,
and you will at least have the privilege of saying you
heard Norman Baker’s last talk over his Station
K-TNT at Muscatine, Iowa, today at ten minutes after
two o’clock. <
Maybe Not Last Talk
I say his last talk— don’t know if it is the last talk
forever or not, but it is now, and maybe for some
months yet, or until the Court' of Appeals has time to
review the case. Now the boys at the studio go
ahead. (Mike turned back to main studio and
records played).
Well folks, I trust you have made a lot of phone
calls and that you have the members of all your
families and those of your neighbors tuned in on
their receiving sets now to hear the last talk over
Radio Station K-TNT from Norman Baker—meaning
the last talk until the Court of Appeals has had time
358 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
to review the decision of the Federal Radio Com­
mission.
On June 5th, at 12:30 noon, I received a telegram
from the Federal Radio Commission stating that they
had decided the case against us and that K-TNT must
go off the air that night at midnight. Of course as
we have no evening hours on K-TNT for the past
several years, and our closing hours for the day being
sundown, Eastern Standard Time, that meant we
were to go off the air at 7 :45 that evening, and that
our nightly talk that goes on at 5 minutes after 12
could not be given.
Decision Was Vicious
The decision was vicious. It showed rank dis­
crimination and unfairness for the reason that it only
gave me from 12:30 noon until 7 :45 p. m., that same
evening to tell you folks the facts and truths and to
make arrangements for the closing of K-TNT. The
decision was vicious for the reason that there was no
consideration given to the fact that in the building
of K-TNT, and in the building of our transmitter, in
the purchase of the land and the experiment and all
expenses that go to make up the successful operation
there was a cost of over $250,000. These are the
assets of radio station K-TNT. The United States
government took no consideration of that, nor did
they consider the advertising contracts which we have
had for national advertisers and others who are using
the services of K-TNT—that these contracts must
cease immediately— meaning that it was rank dis­
crimination of such proportions that one could hardly
expect it to take place in the United States of
America.
I am sure that there are millions of people in
America who see this. There are millions of people
who will ask themselves today, “Where is justice to
be found in the United States?" Where is the justice
that your fathers and my father and our grandfathers
B a k e r ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 359
fought for and that you and I should enjoy? They
fought for freedom. Our old grandfathers fought
for freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom
of religion, and I believe you will find in the history
of those wonderful papers, the Declaration of Inde­
pendence, and the Constitution of the United States,
that George Washington, one of the foremost, was
quite eager that freedom of religion should not exist
in America, and he fought, we are told, for the Church
of England, meaning that had he been successful,
you and I could have attended no other church in
America except the Church of England.
Medical Freedom Sidetracked
At that time, Thomas Jefferson, a man whom I
have always loved for the courage and fearlessness
he displayed, arose to maintain by argument, that the
people of America, if to have a free country, should
have freedom of religion, and after arguments pro
and con, the Declaration of Independence carried
freedom of religion, freedom of speech and free­
dom of the press.
Sitting there with them was another man, who
must be credited with considerable foresight and
vision, and that man was Dr. Benjamin Rush, the
doctor and „physician who saw the medical end of
things which were going to take place in this country
of ours, the United States of America, and he saw too
that monopoly would take place in the medical end of
things, so he argued for the addition of medical
freedom to freedom of speech, freedom of religion
and freedom of the press, that it should be written
into the Declaration of Independence—medical free­
dom. But the others didn’t seem to have the fore­
sight and vision that Dr. Benjamin Rush had, and
medical freedom was not plainly written into the
Declaratioh of Independence.
Today we can look back and admire the foresight
360 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
of Dr. Benjamin Rush, for the reason that the organ­
ized medical group of America, including the Ameri­
can Medical Association, College and Association of
Surgeons and all our state and county medical as­
sociations, constitute organized medicine which tells
you what you should and what you should not do.
Organized Medicine Ignorant
Organized medicine fought everything and every­
one—man, woman and organization alike—that
dared to even insinuate or dared to talk of any method
of treatment by the natural methods, suggestive
therapeutics, power of mind, Christian Science,
chiropractic, osteopathic, naprapathic, masseuers
and what-nots, all of which have come into existence
for the mere reason that organized medicine with its
knowledge of things medical, has made a dismal
failure. Today the most common of all diseases
cannot be cured. Even a bad cold, after over 150
years of medical science research, the medical science
has no specific cure for, and this exists, even though
140,000 physicians—men and women graduates from
the best medical colleges— after four to seven years
of medical training, with the best professors as
teachers, come out from those colleges with diplomas
strapped around their necks and without knowledge
of one specific cure for any known disease.
And still, surrounded with all this gross ignorance,
they have the audacity to organize with their seventy
thousand and over physicians, joined with organized
medicine, many for the mere purpose of protecting
themselves in their own business, by organized efforts
of the A. M. A., against those who might bring mal­
practice suits against them and for other purposes.
Organized medicine, to protect its own has gone
to work and formed its own insurance
companies, and for the small sum of about $35 per
year its doctor members can secure yearly insurance
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 361
policies to protect them from any malpractice suits
and fights through the highest courts of the land, •
against you, the public, who have no other recourse
open but to spend thousands of dollars to fight, if
you choose to do so. The result is that the power
of that highly organized organization with its con­
centrated efforts of the medical profession and so­
cieties of America has succeeded in closing this sta­
tion, K-TNT at Muscatine, Iowa—the most beautiful
radio station in America— a monument to the radio
industry—a station which has led in its activities,
in the nature of its programs and in many other
things— and they did this, regardless of the large in­
vestment in it; regardless of the fact that it stands
today, the most popular radio station in the wide
world.
K-TNT Fought for Public
And that statement I make, I make not reluctantly,
but truthfully and without fear of contradiction,
affirmed and proven by the fact that you people
out there in the great spaces, come, to Muscatine
to visit K-TNT, saying that this station has fought the
battles of the farmer, fought the battles of the labor­
er and the battles of the general public—fought those
battles giving you the truth —giving you things the
press of America was afraid to give, and you have
come to Muscatine.
I have seen as high as 50,000 of you folks come to
Muscatine and K-TNT as visitors. That is the larg­
est group 'of people that ever visited any one radio
station in any one day, and that is more people.than
go to the average radio station in a whole year of their
visiting hours. Then I have seen crowds of 32,000
people; 26,000 people; 22,000, and many of 16,000,
14,000 and 12,000, and as the majority of you will
affirm, on practically any Sunday, there are on an
average 5,000 or more people assembled at K-TNT.
362 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
But in view of all that— in view of all those things
showing that K-TNT is the most popular station in
America—the decision today proves to you con­
clusively what the organized efforts of the medical
profession of America can do, organized as they are
in their state, their county and their national organ­
izations, constituting the American Medical Associa­
tion, which through its state medical societies and
county medical societies have not stopped in their
efforts to gain complete control of you.
Not being satisfied in placing their doctors as
United States senators and representatives, they
have placed doctors in positions in President Hoover’s
cabinet—from Dr. Work, on down to Dr. Wilbur of
the Department of the Interior, and every branch of
the government; every branch of the state assemblies
or legislatures, as well as other offices, and always,
invariably placing no one but organized doctor mem­
bers of their society, as members of the state medical
boards. It gives them one of the greatest chances
for propaganda and influence ever known, and if
Dr. Benjamin Rush, who signed the Declaration of
Independence— if his ghost were to rise from its
grave today, instead of scaring the people, the ghost
would be scared, at the audacity of some people and
would sink back to the grave, never to show its face
again.
Station Opened in 1925
People of America will never, in my estimation,
for at least 25 years, realize what that gigantic
power and terrific influence means to the lives and
the welfare of the people of America. When they
can come and take from you—the farmers, the labor­
ers, and the public in general— a mouthpiece—a radio
mouthpiece of 5,000 watts, erected here at Muscatine,
Iowa, under the name of K-TNT, construction of
which was made in 1924, and which went on the air
officially during the summer of 1925, and which has
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 363
fought bravely, courageously and fearlessly for six
long years, the battles of you farmers, laborers, and
general public, then when you realize that valuable
station will be gone today when I close this micro­
phone, it ought to make you stop—make you think,
and make you ponder over the conditions in America
today.
If it did nothing else, it should make you wonder
as to how you will vote at the next election—whether
or not you will support the administration when
Hoover comes out for president in 1932 with the rest
of the ticket—that is a question for you to ponder
on.
I say this is my last talk— possibly it will be the
last for at least some months until the court of appeals
has had time to review the case of the Federal Radio
commission against this station, and then, if the court
of appeals’ decision is against us, to keep K-TNT
closed (and no doubt that will be the case), we will
try every way to take the case to the supreme court
of the United States.
Judges Are Influenced
It is true that decisions are not fair in many cases
—and many decisions are made by prominent judges
in America who are indirectly influenced by those
who have gone out and invited the judges to their
homes to play bridge or go out and play a game of
golf. During that game of bridge or that game of
golf, there are no bribes offered, but a subtle method
of propaganda is used by not only one, but two or
three friends perhaps from the outside who have
been invited to that party with those they want to
influence, and indirect suggestions are made regard­
ing “so and so” which does not fail, in many cases to
bring a favorable decision to the “powers that be”
against you, the farmer, the laborer, and the millions
that make up the 120 million people in the United
States, all in the same category, the common public
364 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
of America.
You are going to miss K-TNT—you are going to
miss the service it has given to you, for the reason
that other stations of like power and even smaller,
to the smallest stations of 100 watts of power, have
looked to this case of radio station K-TNT, with awe;
have anxiously awaited a decision to see whether
Norman Baker, owner and operator of radio station
K-TNT, would win in the decision for the rights of
the farmers, laborers and the common public, or
whether he would lose. These stations' are now
intimidated; their managers have hearts filled with
fear, feeling that if they say one word of truth to
the American people, aside from what is read in the
ordinary newspaper channels in daily papers, they
will be kicked off the air.
Chain Stations Favored
The movement is on in America to try to strike
every independent station off the air and to give
all channels and power to the electrical trusts of
America and to the chain stations, regarding which
the Federal Radio commission had the audacity to say
that the independent stations sell merchandise or
that they give the price of merchandise over the air,
which In their minds, constitutes direct advertising.
But'they go along and permit the chains over the
chain stations of America to sell everything from
soup to hickory nuts and all they need do is not to
mention price. The Federal Radio commission de­
crees that is not direct advertising, and it is all right
for them to go ahead! They have broken every rule
of religion, when they have gone on chain stations
everySunday and every Sunday evening, selling every
thing from toothpicks to shoe polish and cigarettes,
and they have told you ladies that they perfect your
shape or make your form better, and that they are
“kind to your throat.” They have done that all on
the Sabbath, and I am wondering what you ministers
B a k e r ’s F in Ali B roadcast Over K-TN T 365
■
—you religious organizations, and you Christian peo­
ple think when you tune in your set next Sunday or
any Sunday, and hear the selling of merchandise on
Sunday by the trust radio stations of America, and
when you go out of your home—when you go down­
town in your automobile or out for a walk and you
find the doors of your merchandise houses closed in
respect to the Sabbath?
Chain stations could have heralded one of the
greatest things to the American people ever heard of,
but you could not get them to connect their stations
on the chain and give a service to the American
people unless they saw the almighty dollar ahead.
They will connect all stations together, however, and
broadcast a prize fight or something which you
people don’t care much about kiddies listening to,
on account of its brutality, classed next to the bull
fights of Spain.
Won’t Broadcast Patriotism
They do that, but if you people who are patriotic
—if your forefathers could rise from the grave and
ask the chain stations and the electrical trusts of
America to broadcast that most wonderful tone—the
tones from a peal of that old Independence Bell now
hanging in Independence hall at Philadelphia, Pa.—
the peal that rang forth the good news of the
Declaration of Independence, the electrical trust and
the Federal Radio Commission, with all its members,
including General Saltzman, Harold Lafount, Mr.
Starbuck, Judge Robinson and Judge Sykes, I believe
would be indifferent as to whether it ever rang forth
in America, recalling the Declaration of Indepen­
dence. I know full well that the electrical trusts
would never permit it, because I have urged that one
of the greatest things and benefits to the American
people, to show their loyalty to the American public
and their willingness to do something for them, would
be to set a microphone on the streets of Philadelphia,
366 D octors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
below the Independence Hall, and have someone pull
the rope, letting that grand old bell ring again the
independence of our country. But you, the public—
the laborer and farmer, and all—will never hear
again, the ringing of that grand old bell of Indepen­
dence, for I think before that happens we will all be
dead.
And all this makes you and I think, if we have any
patriotic blood in our veins, and I may mention that
this is Norman Baker talking, from Radio Station
K-TNT, who by order of the court of appeals, ceases
broadcasting—this will be the last talk and the last
program you will hear over station K-TNT until the
court of appeals decides upon our case—that of the
people’s station of America. And it makes you think
of this one thing. Your fathers have fought, and my
father has fought—if I had time I would like to tell
you the history of my father and what he went
through, fighting for justice in America.
Tells of Father
I will take a little time, saying this. My old dad,
a member, I believe, of the 27th Infantry of the State
of Illinois, was captured in battle during the Civil
War; was thrown into the Andersonville prison—
and those who have read history know the Ander­
sonville prison to be one of the most horrible places
ever a human being was put into.
It was a large place with practically level ground,
surrounded by a high board fence forming a stock­
ade, and at certain distances there were guard houses,
where was stationed a guard with rifles and shot­
guns. Through the middle of that stockade there
ran a litte creek where fresh pure glistening water
flowed through the stockade. This prison was the
worst and most horrible ever known, unless some
dungeons in Europe may be worse. There were wire
fences along each side of the creek, and the prisoners
were not given water as they should have been—.they
367
B a k e r ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT
had little cans which they were served soup in, and if
they dared crawl under the wire fence 10 or 12 feet
to the water’s edge and dip up an old tomato can full
of fresh water to drink, they were shot dead by the
guards along the stockade. /
Every prisoner in that prison wanted to get out.
My father was quite a genius. He.had great daring,
courage and fearlessness, and he tunnelled out of the
old prison, using the old top of a tin can and a piece
of bark to dig a hole just big enough for a man to
crawl through. Another man would come after,
pushing the dirt back, and for months and months—
they would just take a piece of bark in their hands,
cut the ground in front and push it back under their
stomachs to the next fellow who would grab it and
push it on down until it went out through the.open­
ing. The prison officials would have a heavy iron
cart with a mule hitched to it and drive the heavy
iron cart all over the ground of the prison so that
tunnels being dug would sink under its weight and be
detected. But my father succeeded in escaping—
he went along an old river, and nearby were guards
with bloodhounds sent out after him.
The bridge was some distance away, and the
guard was standing on the bridge, when my father, in
the river, saw him. He got whole logs, tied them to­
gether, put branches over them, got under the water
with just his nose sticking out (he was quite a
swimmer), and floated down under the bridge where
the guard and bloodhounds were. He floated down
and down until he floated into the big Atlantic
Ocean.
Makes His Escape
Of course that was in the days when a man
weighing 175 pounds was away down to 112 or 100
pounds, having nothing to eat from starvation. He
saw a vessel out at sea, grabbed a stick and tore the
shirt off his back and waved it at the vessel far at
368 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
sea, who saw it, and picked father up. Naturally
he hoped it was a northern ship which would maybe
take him to the Northern army, but it happened to be
a Confederate ship, and he was taken back to the
ship as a prisoner, when they found out he had
escaped from Andersonville.
Father was quite a mechanic and a boilermaker
by trade and the Confederacy had very few me­
chanics and boilermakers, they needed more and so
they took him to a town named Danville, I believe,
and told my father if he would join the Confederacy
they would put him to work in the boiler shops at
Danville, and not only give him his freedom and keep
him out of the Andersonville prison but would pay
him $3 per day. Father politely told them to go to
hell, and they sent him back to Andersonville prison,
and in retaliation for escaping, and his firmness for
sticking up for the North and what he thought was
right, they put him out in the graveyard, burying men
who died from scurvy.
Scurvy was a disease well known to the prisoners
of Andersonville, and was just what the name im­
plies. From lack of water to drink (naturally they
had no water in which to take a bath) they got scurvy
—black scurvy, I believe they called it, one of the
most dreadful diseases I guess that is known to
medical profession. When you would pick up the
bodies they would fall apart from the terrible disease
—practically rotten. My father worked in that
graveyard burying the victims of scurvy. They put
prisoners in there so they would get the disease and
die, and they wouldn't have to shoot them.
Escapes Second Time ,
Father went back in the prison and got hold of a
guard—father had an old 7-jewel watch— and he
bribed that guard to let him out. And he got out
the second time, it was the second time he escaped
from that horrible Andersonville prison. But they
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 369
caught father again and took him back to prison and
hung him by the thumbs. For 5 hours they tortured
him, and tattooed a large eagle under his chin all the
way over the abdomen.
K-TNT Enemies Unfair
Now radio station K-TNT is closed by people who,
in my estimation, are vicious, unfair and inhuman
and disrespectful of the rights of the people of the
United States.
Fortunately, we have a little civilization in America
today. They have done everything possible—
threatened this and that and finally have succeeded
in closing radio station K-TNT at Muscatine, Iowa,
maybe forever, and maybe for only a few months,
but it looks very much like it might be forever.
This parting talk is to you, good friends, listeners
and cooperators, who have been so loyal to station
K-TNT at Muscatine, Iowa, owned and operated by
me, and I feel that over the period of construction of
this station to the present day—from the time we
built the foundation in 1924 until the closing of this
station, this afternoon between 3 and 4 o’clock, that
you, the most of all, will admit—and all of you must
admit, if you will be fair, that station, K-TNT, or
Norman Baker, or anyone else connected with its
operation can never be accused of fighting the
American people—fighting the farmer—the laborer
or the general public. All that we have fought has
been monopolization and trusts, capitalistic groups
and Wall Street, and unfair organizations they have
organized with only one thing in mind, and that one
thing is to grab the almighty dollar from the Ameri­
can people by compulsion or otherwise.
No one can ever deny that statement, and my
prophesy to'you is that you, the farmer, laborer and
common public will never, never again in the history
of America, ever succeed in getting a 5,000 watt
370 D octors, Dyn a m iters and Gunmen
radio station that will stand for the farmer, laborer
and general public. You never will get it unless one
thing transpires, and I am willing, even though licked
at this step in the game— we are taking it like men
and women and aren’t shedding any tears, for we
know we have given you six years of the best service
any radio station or organization in America ever
gave the American people— but there is one chance,
and I am going to mention that chance at the end
of my talk, and I want you to stay tuned in for it.
One Chance Left
That one chance will save the day for the people
of America, but I am afraid that organized tactics
have given you such a dose of sleeping powders that
you will sleep longer than Rip Van Winkle ever slept
before the effects wear away. And if you sleep for
the next 20 years as many have slept for the last 6,
I am telling you that you will be in a worse condition
than you are today.
Now folks, in reciprocation for what we have
done for you which has not only been 7 years of work;
that has not only been 7 years of fighting for your
cause—the farmer, laborer and common public—
but I personally have spent over $100,000.00 in this
fight for you, and that is a lot of money. I, personal­
ly have put a quarter of a million dollars into radio
station K-TNT, anrl have spent it in getting that
station better, ana if you will add to this what I have
spent, on an average of $35,000 yearly for talent and
cost of operating it, I have spent far over a million
dollars.
The time is a long way off—in fact, years and
years ahead, when you are going to find another
individual that will be so engrossed in the matter of
justice and freedom that he will spend 7 hard years
working for your betterment, let alone, spending one
million dollars in the attempt to succeed. The time
is now when you can reciprocate. .
B a k e r ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 371
Don’t Realize Facts
Those of you— and there are thousands of you who
will say “It can’t be; I don’t understand it; I don’t
see how they succeeded in closing K-TNT; where is
justice to be found in the United States?”—I can
hear you make mental remarks like that. But this
is just like everything else that happens in America
You have taken the stand it cannot be; it will not be
done.
Your house will never catch fire; it will always
be your neighbor’s, but sometime you will find your
house in ashes simply because you would not take
a precaution. Thousands have done it, but thousands
have not done it— thousands of you appreciated what
we have done for you—you appreciate the noble,
courageous fight we have made, but you haven't
spent a 2-cent stamp for a letter to show your ap­
preciation. Now that is some of you. But a great
many of you, 1 want to thank from the bottom of my
heart for your loyalty and co-operation. And now
we stand with K-TNT going off the air—with your
public mouthpiece gone—your independent mouth­
piece gone, and this station goes with the reputation
and the name of having been the fighting radio station
of America. Fight Longstanding
The American Telephone and Telegraph com­
pany, back in 1924, refused to grant me a patent
license, so I could operate my station. I had a li­
cense from the United States government, but they
owned the patents, and could enjoin any station from
broadcasting that did not have a license from them
and pay a royalty for same, the royalty being $4 a
watt for the license.
I started with 500 watts. That meant $2,000 for
a license, and I offered that and the American Tele­
phone and Telegraph company who controlled things
in radio back in those days of 1924 and 1925, said
372 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
they had stopped issuing a license for their patents
to be used or the methods of wiring and their dia­
grams, unless you bought a transmitter from their
company, which was the Western Electric Company,
and if you would buy the transmitter from them, that
included the license to operate.
Well, they wanted over $50,000 at that time for a
transmitter, and I didn’t have that much money to
put into it, so I chose to build my own. But they
would not grant me a license to operate, for the main
reason, in my belief, because Muscatine, Iowa, then
a city of 17 or 18,000 population, had the public utili­
ties company which served it with electricity, charg­
ing 121,4c per kilowatt, and I helped in the fight to
lower the rate and led the fight for the street car
companies to lower the fare from 10c to 5c, and they
finally settled at 7c. It saved the people of Musca­
tine 3c on each street car fare.
Then friends of mine and I got together and floated
a $350,000 bond issue to build a municipal lighting
plant, and then the people of Muscatine were paying
121/20 a kilowatt for electricity. And we won in that
fight.
The city voted for the bond issue and Muscatine
has a municipal light plant here today, and the people
of Muscatine light their homes for 214c and house­
wives cook their meals with electricity, for it is as
cheap as gas.
Naturally the public utilities didn’t like me and at
that time owed me $100 from before the fight, for
times when they had cut off the current from my
factory and my men and motors were forced to lay
off. It wasn’t an act of God, because the light
company cut off the power, and I kept track of that
time, so they owed me $100, which they refused to
pay. Then I started out. I told them for every
dollar of that one hundred they owed me, they would
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 373
pay one thousand and it would cost them $100,000
to pay that bill, and they paid it, and paid it dearly.
They paid about $750,000 in business losses, $7,500
for every dollar they owed me besides.
Fight for People Won
My friends came to the rescue, joined in the fight,
and today the chain electrical octopus with tentacles
reaching out from Wall Street is with us no more,
and Muscatine is served by its own municipal light­
ing plant. It has saved many dollars for the people
of Muscatine and the earning of that city plant prom­
ises to make Muscatine a taxless city. That is an
accomplishment of which the people of Muscatine '
may well be proud.
Tells Ways Out
Now there is one way out of this—two ways, and I
am going to mention them and wait a week or more,
and see just how loyal the people of the midwest are
to themselves and their community. I anticipated
this decision; I knew the powers of that gang; the un­
fair and discriminating tactics of the Federal Radio
commission, because I have fought them from the
time of organization, and there isn’t a Federal Radio
commissioner who can deny it. And to show you
some discrimination:
.First— They wouldn’t increase the power of
K-TNT when they increased everybody else’s and
finally I fought and got an increase for a 10,000 watt
license and built a 10,000 watt transmitter with a
capacity of 14,000 watts of power in the antenna.
Mr. Bellows, who was. then a federal radio com­
missioner (who was asked to resign, but which
was never made public to the American public, and
which comes to me from a United States senator),
finally cut us'down to 1100 watts, and when asked
why he did this, he said because the transmitter at
K-TNT was not capable of giving over 1100 watts of
power.
374 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
I immediately demanded an investigation from the
Federal Radio commission and had an inspector come
out from the Chicago Division, who sat at Station
K-TNT with my engineers, Carl Menzer of Station
WSUI at Iowa City, my consulting engineer, and
others, and tested the transmitter at midnight that
night after the programs were over, and Mr. Turner,
the inspector from Chicago, by his own figuring,
found that the transmitter was giving over 8,000
watts at the switch board and Carl Menzer put on all
his resistance instruments and found that the out­
put was 14,000 watts actually.
But in spite of this, the Federal Radio commission
would not admit their mistake and never gave me
that power until I fought and fought and finally got
back 3,500 watts.
Then I went to Washington again for another
hearing. The Sioux City Journal at a little town
over there called Sioux City, Iowa, brought a case
' against us to secure our wavelength. We went be­
fore the Federal Radio commission, with our 16-inch
guns all cocked, and the Federal Radio commission
dismissed the hearing, because they said there was
no case against us. This cost Baker $2,500.00.
Sought More Power
Then I went back home and we remained on the
air with 3,500 watts. I went back after 5,000 watts
of power, had another hearing at Washington. Mr.
Caldwell was then a Federal Radio commissioner, and
his appointment was confirmed by a majority of only
one vote of the Senate, which wouldn’t have happen­
ed except that I didn’t request one senator friend not
to vote for Caldwell because Caldwell had promised
to treat K-TNT fairly, and never did it.
Finally, at that hearing, Caldwell said to me, “Mr.
Baker, if you can show us an allocation where we can
give you more power, we will be glad to do it.”
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 375
I showed them. Finally Sam Pickard, one of the
Commissioners, said to Baker, “ You’re just the fel­
low I want to see. I believe we have got the matter
all fixed up. If you are willing to cancel your little
license of KPNP we will give you 5,000 watts for
K-TNT.
I had a little broadcasting license, KPNP, at that
time. And I said, “Pickard, I will work with you 100
per cent, when you prove you want to do justice, and
I am believing that you do, so I will take your 5,000
watts and cancel my little 100 watt license, but I
want some evening hours.” “I think it can be ar­
ranged,” he said. So I left on the first train out of
Des Moines, and came back to Muscatine—I didn’t
even wait for the dinner and the banquet.
Refused Evening Hours
When the 1927 allocation of stations came, I got
5,000 watts, but I went off the air at sundown, and
they refused to give me evening hours. No doubt
they thought if they shut K-TNT off with daylight
hours so many people couldn’t hear what Mr. Baker
had to say when he spoke the truth about public and
important questions.
So I have succeeded since 1927, for three or four
years now, in talking to the people of the midwest
within the daytime hearing distance of K-TNT, being
on the air again only after midnight when that great
chain station, WCAU at Philadelphia, signs off. That
shows more discrimination shown in favor of the
chain stations, and the Federal Radio commission
took the evening hours away from your farmer and
laborer station and gave them to WCAU, the chain
station, so that they could have the best channels.
They gave my channel to them, and let me take what
was left so that Leon Levy, who has a brother-in-law
or son-in-law who is president of the Columbia Broad­
casting chain, might profit. Sam Pickard deserted
376 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
the Radio Commission to become an official of the
Columbia Chain.
That left K-TNT with practically no suitable hours
to talk to you. But we went on trying to please and
play ball, and made no exposes or attacks regarding
the commission for 3 or 4 years, until last year the
Federal Radio commission came out and advocated
that all radio broadcasting stations in America install
crystal control devices attached to their transmitters
so that the transmitter could broadcast on a steady
frequency, and I went to Chicago where they gave
me permission to build it, but when I built the crystal
control, the commission said I must have a permit,
and I have had the crystal control built ever since way
last summer, awaiting that permit. They have
authorized every other station when it asked, but
they refused to grant me the right to connect my
crystal control and stabilize the frequency of Station
K-TNT, which is absolute and positive proof of the
discrimination of the Federal Radio commission
against K-TNT, for it happened long before this
trouble came up and we were cited for hearing on
October 20, 1930. That was in the summer of 1930.
Fight Up to Public
Now folks, this fight is up to you. Here is what
you want to do: I anticipated this, and got nearly
1,100 of you together in the midwest—you bought
stock in the Progressive Publishing Company, which
was organized and publishes a daily evening news­
paper from the finest new three-story newspaper
plant in the State of Iowa, and with the best equip­
ment, starting on December 19, 1930, when Presi­
dent Herbert Hoover, of the United States, pressed
the golden key in the White House at Washington,
D. C., at 2 :30 p. m., which started the great press
rolling and ran off the first edition of the Midwest
Free Press here at Muscatine.
That paper has grown to nearly 8,000 circulation,
B a k e r ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 377
and we need a bigger circulation; we need your sub­
scriptions to build the Midwest Free Press up—it is
a paper which should have at least 50,000 circulation
so that everyday you people can get the truth and
news regarding all these monopolies and their un­
fairness to the American people.
Even though K-TNT is closed, it is up to you to put
,your shoulder to the wheel and help push. Send in
your subscription. Don't wait until tomorrow—send
them in now, and you people in outside cities, who
don’t have carrier service, it is only $4.00 yearly;
$2.00 for 6 months; $1 for three months or 50 cents
a month.
I don’t care how bad you say times are, I don’t care
if you have to go without potatoes for your supper,
it is up to you to get the voice of the people of
America coming into your home every evening, even
though you never read any more of those newspapers
you have taken for years, and which have failed to
tell you the truth and worked with monopolistic in­
terests and trusts of America against you.
May Go to Mexico
No doubt we will go to Mexico and start a power­
ful station to tell the people all over the world just
“what is what.” , And there are two ways to do it.
I can go down and build a station myself, or I can
let you people come in as partners of Norman Baker.
If you want to join with me, how many of you are
willing to invest from $10. up to $5,000, in the build­
ing of a radio station of 50,000 watts or 100,000 watts
in Mexico, that will go all over the United States
better than K-TNT ever could do. We will start out
in Mexico, and I also figure on starting a hospital
down there. ,
You know the Baker Hospital here at Muscatine
has been the “bone of contention” which caused the
medical trust to start .their action and influence
against this station, which hosDital has now been
378 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
leased to Dr. W. W. Potter, of Muscatine, Iowa, and
where they have been and are successfully treating
cancer—internal and external— goitre, internal and
external, stomach ulcers and stomach trouble, ap­
pendicitis, prostate gland trouble, gallbladder
trouble, etc., without operation, X-ray or radium.
And this fight was brought about because I, as
publisher of the monthly Magazine TNT, at Musca­
tine, Iowa, which enjoys a national circulation, had a
committee from that magazine make an investigation
of a treatment which was claimed to have cured pa­
tients for 25 years. I personally brought doctors to
Muscatine and I got 5 patients, and paid their treat­
ment expenses and the work which was done so
successfully upon them caused me to examine their
records for 10, 12 and 15 years back.
The doctors of organized medicine refused to
have anything to do with it on account of the fees
they liked to get from the American people in opera­
tions, radium and X-ray, the only three things they
used for the control of cancer.
Hospital is Started
So I started the Baker hospital at Muscatine, Iowa;
got licensed Iowa doctors to do the work, using the
famous Baker Cancer formulas. People all over the
United States and Canada came to the Baker hospital
and we had nearly 600 patients at one time. Practic­
ally 75 per cent of external cases, sixty-five per cent
of uterus and seventy-five per cent of breast cases
were sent home well.
Then the medical trust got after me and brought
suit for practicing medicine and surgery in the State
of Iowa without a license, whereas I never practiced
or treated or even thought of it. I defeated them
in the lower courts and they carried it to the Supreme
Court of Iowa, where it was decreed that because I
owned the hospital, because I knew the secret formu­
las and because I employed licensed physicians, I was
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 379
guilty of practicing medicine. It was absolutely a
frost, and a shame upon fairness and justice in
America. The Baker hospital is now leased to Dr.
W. W. Potter, a licensed Iowa physician, who is using
the same formulas with the same success.
Then in this great fight for humanity, and to save
some of the 150,000 men and women dying every year
of cancer in America, I went to the governor of the
state of Iowa, Dan Turner, asking him to have the „
Iowa State Legislature appoint a committee to in­
vestigate the Baker Hospital, and if they found we
were not curing cancer either in the past or at present,
to close, the hospital and put Norman Baker in jail.
Dan Turner refused to investigate.
I wrote the same letter and request to every rep­
resentative and senator, asking them to appoint a
legislative committee to examine the work of the
Baker Hospital, and if it was not curing cancer, to
close it and put Norman Baker in jail, but if they did
find that cancer was being cured at the Baker Hospi­
tal without the use of the knife, radium er X-ray, to
tell the people of Iowa that there was a cure for that
dread disease without being cut with the knife or
burned to death with X-ray or radium.
Shows Hoover Proof
I went to President Hoover, proved my cancer
cures to him.
I asked him to appoint a committee to investigate,
and send 25 or 50 of those boys who fought in the
war and who are now dying of cancer for one reason
or another, and who have been given up to die, after
operations, radium and X-ray have failed to cure
them, to send them to the Baker Hospital at Mus­
catine, Iowa, and we will treat them and it won’t cost
the government one penny. For him to decide from
the good we do to these soldier boys who contracted
380 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
cancer through fighting for that grand and glorious
flag of America and what it stands for.
And President Hoover said, 1‘Mr. Baker, give me
time to investigate this. ’’ And I said, ‘‘Mr. President,
that is exactly what I am here for. I will gladly do
it.” and I left, in hopes that some day President
Hoover or the United States Senate would see the
necessity of not believing everything some doctors
say, but will get some broadminded and common-
sense men with ordinary horse sense to investigate
the remarkable treatments going on everyday at the
Baker Hospital, Muscatine, Iowa, and which is going
to make Muscatine the cancer center of the world.
And that was the last I heard of that effort.
Commission Refuses License
One week ago, on June 5th, the Federal Radio
commission said the license of K-TNT would not be
renewed. It is now the 12th day of June—just one
week has passed since that decision, and I am now in
receipt of a telegram from James W. Baldwin, secre­
tary of the Federal Radio Commission, which reads
as follows:
“COMMISSION HAS RECEIVED ORDER FROM
COURT OF APPEALS DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
VACATING STAY ORDER OF JUNE FIVE NINE­
TEEN THIRTY ONE TN YOUR CASE STOP COM­
MISSION DIRECTS YOU TO DISCONTINUE
TRANSMITTING ON RECEIPT OF THIS TELE­
GRAM.”
3:20 P.M.
Therefore, in conclusion, we are going to sign off
in a minute, and I am making one last final appeal to
you people, for I know you are interested. I have
at least 1,000 letters in my files telling me so, and
there is a man sitting within 5 feet of me, who knows
the requests made for Norman Baker to enter the
political field and start a “Norman Baker for Gover­
nor Club.”
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 381
But I have no political aspirations, and I want to
thank you people for the letters you have sent—I
am really flattered to think you want Norman Baker
to enter the race, and I will say this to you :
If I ever did run that office, you would get the most
constructive, c’
onservative and most business-like
fearless and courageous administration the State of
Iowa has ever had, and if I found after I had taken
the chair, that I couldn’t do that, I would resign, and
nobody would have to impeach me.
I am making one final appeal for you to get out
that check book and send your money here to Norman
Baker for the Midwest Free Press—it is only $4.00
a year; $2.00 for 6 months; $1.00 for 3 months and
50c a month. Or it is 15c a week by carrier.
Cancer Operation Unnecessary
And if any of you folks are suffering from cancer,
gallbladder trouble, prostate gland trouble, appendi­
citis, stomach ulcers, stomach trouble or goitre, and
have been told that an operation means life or death
— even though you have been pronounced incurable
by Mayo Brothers clinic, state universities or John
Hopkins, take my advice as the last words of Norman
-Baker to sick humanity in America. Believe what
I tell you about cancer being curable without opera­
tion, radium or X-ray—you will never break down
that statement, in spite of the fallacy perpetrated by
the organized,doctors of America who are making
over 100 million dollars yearly in their fees charged
for operations, radium and X-ray treatments, which
permits them to split fees with your family doctor.
And if too sick to come, send your friends or relatives
to visit us, because we haven’t to this day had to oper­
ate upon one case of tonsils, appendicitis, stomach
ulcers, prostate gland trouble or goitre, nor one case
of internal or external cancer.
We have never performed one major operation.
That record stands and I have invited even the presi-
382 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
dent of our government to appoint a committee to
come to Muscatine and investigate the work of the
doctors at the Baker Hospital, founded by 'Norman
Baker, your speaker here this afternoon over Station
K-TNT, and these are my last words to you.
Remember, write me letters, and if you want to join
me in the investment, and will put up capital with me,
we will go to Mexico and put up a 50,000 watt station.
Don’t send me any money now, but write and tell me
if you are willing to buy stock at perhaps $10.00 per
share in case I organize a Mexican company.
Loyalty Appreciated
In conclusion I want to thank you for your loyalty;
I want to thank you for your co-operation, for you
have been fair, honest and sincere, my listeners, and
I want you to know that station K-TNT is closing
without one thought of jealousy or one thought of
malice against any man, woman or group that fought
to close it. It was their fight, and it was our fight to
retain it. This is the second step of the fight, and
we have lost. We will now wait until the court of
appeals decides the case and find out if we will be
back again or not. But frankly speaking, it would
be ridiculous for a station to go back on the air after
several months of silence, for it would lose all its
audience.
And to Clyde Rabedeaux of the Muscatine Journal
and Mr. Adler of the Lee Syndicate of Newspapers,
to Dr. Beveridge, our good surgeon who is so anxious
to cut people up, to Dr. Howe, who handles the X-ray
machine and is' always willing to use it, and to Mr.
Pitchforth, who got kicked out of the auditor’s chair,
I like you all. Don’t get mad because you got kicked
out of the auditor’s chair— your day may come po­
litically, if you are square with the people. And
Dr. Beveridge, you may get lots of operations if you
will cut only when it is necessary. Dr. Howe, you
regulate that old machine and learn to run it and
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 383
not cause malpractice suits like the one of Mr. Legler,
and it won’t cost you $20,000; and the Iowa State
Medical society, we will settle our little suit when it
is decided in the courts; the Muscatine County Medi­
cal society, and you the American Medical associa>
tion, we will settle our little differences when that
$500,000 suit is decided in the Federal Court at
Davenport. These are my parting words to you
over K-TNT; I like every one of you, but the fight is
not over. It is never done until we are dead and
we will never say die.
Fight Not Over
Thank you one and all. These are the last words
from radio station K-TNT. The Court of Appeals
has decreed that this radio station K-TNT, operating
on 1170 kilocycles with 5,000 watts of power which
channel was stolen from us and given to Dr. Leon
Levy’s station WCAU Philadelphia, a key station of
the Columbia Broadcasting Company, that chain
monopolistic gang of America, and station K-TNT
must cease to operate. I thank you; goodbye; good
luck and good health to all. Norman Baker talking,
and don’t forget those subscriptions to the Midwest
Free Press.
Well, folks . . . . I would rather have been the
author of that speech, than of any utterance by any
king or emperor or president ever recorded. Call in
the folks out in the fields; they’ve had a voice till
now, and that voice has been throttled by the ones
who, in their greedy worship of money, held rightly
that the truth was their greatest enemy. Baker’s
farewell address to his friends and supporters . . . .
His whole long struggle, the public enemies he attack­
ed who turned snarling against him . . . . Their
temporary victory . . . . His plans for the future,
involving the radio station in Mexico, and all the
384 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
rest of i t . . . . Turn and read that over again. It’s
worth more than all my book about the man who
uttered it.
Ribald glee in hell. . . . There was a celebration
held over the closing of K-TNT. Members of the
newspaper gang that had fought Baker and had
helped close the station put on a drunken celebration
that lasted from Muscatine to Davenport, and that
did not hiccup drunkenly to its end until morning.
The business men of Muscatine, too late, had their
eyes opened1. The K-TNT crowds were gone; retail
business began to sag appreciably. They had not
raised their hands to help save the courageous sta­
tion; bitterly they repented of the fact, now that they
saw the cost to themselves. It is true that the price of
supporting Baker, during the tense closing days of
the struggle, might mean a boycott for the inde-
pendent-souled merchant who sided with him. Even
Baker’s friends were so threatened. The majority
of the business men, after all, were in debt to the
local bankers; the bankers opposed Baker; words
were spoken outright directing the business men to
remain at least neutral, on pain of serious financial
inconvenience. The bankers had no use for him: he
had so much money he did not have to borrow; he
recommended more flexibility for the postal savings
bank; after the stock market crash of 1929, Baker
predicted the bank crash openly, and recommended
to all his friends to place their deposits in the Postal
Savings Bank. K-TNT closed: the crowds began to
avoid Muscatine. Crowds of five to fifty thousand
a Sunday, no more. Hundreds of thousands of dol-
1—Muscatine, Iowa is broke, according to press reports April 30th, 1934. Owners
of business enterprises and citizens are asking Mr. Baker to reopen K-TNT,
to bring the crowds back to the city.
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 385
lars worth of goods had been sold to these visitors,
whom Baker personally drew to the little city. Al­
together, he had brought over a million visitors to
Muscatine. He had employed 172 people. His
positions were the best paying ones in the city. His
average salary was 25% higher than the average in
any other industry in the city. With K-TNT closed,
and Baker’s advertising outlet gone, he had to lay off
150 employees. This in turn made the income of the
Muscatine retailers sag lower yet. In the two years
following the closing of K-TNT, many small business
men of Muscatine failed, or closed their businesses.
Today many locked doors are seen on the main street
of Muscatine. When the heart dies, the little arter­
ies and veins cannot survive.
At first, the merchants optimistically whispered to
each other, “It’s only a slump; things will get a lot
better, soon.’’ They got worse, instead of better.’
Baker had friends by the thousands, throughout the
world, especially through the little towns and villages
of his native Iowa. Tipton, Iowa, a town of about
2,145 people, twenty miles away, had paved roads to
Davenport, gravel roads to Muscatine. For years,
thanks to Norman Baker, most of the Tipton trade
left Davenport, the same distance away, and came
to Muscatine. All because of Baker. When K-TNT
was closed, with the assistance or the dumb neutral­
ity of the Muscatine retailers, these shoppers became
angered, and returned to Davenport. Muscatine
lost 90% of the Tipton trade. It has never regained
it. The same was true, almost to the same degree,
of dozens of communities. Shoppers had been able
to bring their families to Muscatine, to K-TNT, and
386 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
spend the day in its homey hospitable atmosphere.
This was all gone. They stayed away.
August, two years later. Norman Baker is in
Mexico, busily building immense X-ENT. Another
large retail store in Muscatine is forced to close its
doors. The proprietor is quoted as saying that he
now sees where he made a mistake, by sticking with
the “big money” crowd. Another newspaper story
had it that the Chamber of Commerce, almost a solid
bloc of Baker’s enemies, felt it their duty to do some­
thing to attract some people into the city. They
staged a celebration, to last three days. One of their
features was a preacher, preaching in the park.
Muscatine claims 16,778 population: it only cost
about 2,000 population to close K-TNT and allow
their greatest benefactor, Norman Baker, to move
with his thriving businesses to Mexico. The malo­
dorous Muscatine Journal spent days advertising the
wonderful celebration. There were pages of adver­
tising (at so much the inch, of course) from merchants
of nearby towns, in the nature of congratulatory
advertisements. It was to be one great immense get-
together celebration. After weeks of advertising in
this fashion, the opening day arrived. Foreign cars,
of out-of-town visitors to the “celebration,” just
weren’t. One paper said that there were 7,000 at
the park for the celebration; other estimates said
5,000. A few of the Muscatiners assembled at the
park, that was all. At the end, the promoters were
in the red $2,000. It had been a flop. In spite of
the fact that the promoters net over ten million dollars
in combined assets, they sent representatives to the
Council and the Municipal Light and Power Board,
and begged the city to foot the deficit. The Light
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TN T 387
Board came across with a thousand of the taxpayers’
money to save the mistake of the bankers, and the
City Council forked up the other thousand.
Quite a contrast to the old days, when the worst
Sunday saw 5,000 out-of-town visitors brought into
Muscatine by the personal magnetism of Norman
Baker and his enterprises. Not one cent’s cost to the
taxpayers, then: Baker footed all the bills. But it’s
too late to lock the barn door; the high-mettled steed
has galloped away. Of course, the Muscatine Journal
did not lose money from the celebration: people had
to pay what they had contracted, for its advertise­
ments. On another occasion, the Journal and the
civic clubs got together to stage a fall festival. It
was widely ballyhooed in the paper, and throughout
the neighboring towns with more advertising for
the Journal. The anticipated opening day arrived.
For five or six blocks, on both sides of the
main streets of the city, there were boulevard lamp
posts. Around each of these the management of the
fall festival tied five cornstalks, brought in from
nearby farms. In spite of this esthetic touch, the
farmers didn’t come to town. Cornstalks were no
treat to them. And there was another celebration
sponsored by the assiduous Journal, called either a
Broken-Down Auto Parade or a Dog Parade, Baker
can not quite remember which. About seventy-five
people were on the main street. A pity, isn’t it?
The irrefutable arithmetic is, Muscatine plus Baker
is a lot. Muscatine without Baker is nothing.
If the retailers of Muscatine, and the city itself,
had suffered severe losses from the closing of K-TNT,
these were all nothing compared to Baker’s own loss­
es. But the retailers suffered enough: for Baker’s
388 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
followers, in the other towns and cities, automatically
and without organization started a boycott on Musca­
tine, until the wrong done Norman Baker had been
righted. They became more infuriated, when later
they learned that a ruling of the radio commission
requires all communications, in the way of criticism
of any station, to be put in affidavit form, and sworn
to before a Notary. Hundreds, thousands of letters
written in favor of K-TNT, not in this form, were slid
into the waste baskets in Washington, unread. For
an affidavit requires a Notary’s fee, an especial form,
and necessary delay; and only the selfish enemies
of Baker went to that trouble.
And now one by one Baker’s enterprises began to
die of inanition, with his advertising mouthpiece gone.
No more construction work— and he had kept a con­
tractor busy solid for six years, keeping up with his
achieved plans. The K-TNT Gasoline and Oil Sta­
tion, representing an investment of thousands of
dollars, with better and cheaper oil and gasoline,
was one of these; the K-TNT Cafe, representing more
thousands of dollars in outlay, and a large staff;
the merchandising of better automobile tires, radio
receiving sets, and a hundred other commodities, with
warehouses, office equipment and stock merchandise
running into the hundreds of thousands of dollars;
the TNT press, which had issued the magazine TNT,
costing thousands more; the new office building, to
take care of these enterprises; the Baker Cancer
Hospital, whose building and lands cost nearly fifty
thousand dollars more; the K-TNT stores in the shop­
ping centers, one in Muscatine and another in Daven­
port; the Tangley Company, building calliaphones
and air pressure calliopes; the daily Midwest Free
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 389
Press, with more than 1,100 subscribers to its capital
stock at ten dollars a share—these were only a part
of Baker’s extensive interests in Muscatine. Today,
the calliope manufacturing end of the business is
barely kept alive; the Baker Hospital, which once
had six hundred patients, is far below this; Baker
was forced to sell the stock in his chain stores and
warehouses at a loss; the TNT press is used only for
his own printing; the K-TNT Oil Station is leased for
a small sum; the K-TNT Cafe had tp be sold at a loss;
the weekly,Midwest Free Press is on its last legs;
the Tangley tires, the Tangley radio receiving sets,,
are off the market; the crown of it all, K-TNT radio
station, the loveliest in the world, is disappearing in
a forest of weeds, most like the rank useless enemies
that closed the station. Property Baker purchased
around Muscatine, for future building activities, has
depreciated 75% since the boom town has become
a bum town. There are other losses; why list them?
The wreckers did their work well.
Confiscation of all this property, merely because
he stood for the under dog, for labor, for the farmer,
for the common citizen, Roosevelt’s “forgotten man” ;
merely because he found a way of ending men’s
agonies and death from cancer, and because this cut
into the bloodtoll of organized doctordom, a blood-
toll for useless and definitely harmful treatments,
that never cured cancer yet and never will; merely
because he fought man’s battles against the greedy
public utilities interests, the harmful aluminum trust,
the selfish radio chain groups, the sycophantic press
—And the government stood idly by and permitted
all this to happen, nay, more, was the agent in all
this happening, without one word raised in his de-
390 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
fense! If any public cause ever called aloud for
investigation and correction, this series of vicious in­
justices does.
The Federal Radio Commission is the costly agent
of government mainly responsible for this wreckage.
Costly? Let an article in the August 17, 1933 Mid­
west Free Press give the figures:
As at present constituted the Commission consists
of five members, each getting $10,000 salary yearly
with liberal expenses. They are appointed by the
President and their appointments must be confirmed
by the Senate. They are named for six year terms
under the 1927 Radio act, the high law of the air.
The Radio Commission also has a big staff of field
workers and lawyers. The government has been
liberal in donations to the Commission. And the
Commission has been liberal in spending. The dona­
tions are made with the chains having no licenses,
no fees to pay such as are usual in other businesses
which require government supervision.
Expensive Supervision
In addition to the government largess allowed the
Commission, the Radio Division of the Department
of Commerce also gets plenty. Or did until last year
when the Radio Division had its claws clipped. For
the 1932 fiscal year the Commission’s appropriation
was $454,197 and the Radio Division’s appropriation
was $490,000. Thus the government in the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1932 spent almost a million
dollars “regulating,” investigating, ruining indepen­
dent stations and going through other acrobatics for
the Radio Trust. The trust didn’t pay a nickel of this
money. It’s quite a racket when you can not only get
a government commission to block off independent
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 391.
competition but also have the government pay the bill
for stifling this competition.
For the fiscal year ending last June 30, the Radio
boys got appropriations of only $790,587. For the
current fiscal year they will have to worry along with
a mere $640,000 taken from the people’s taxes.
Thus in three years the federal government will
have expended almost two and one-half million
dollars so the American people can listen to inane
sales talk, inferior jokes and have independent radio
stations denied the right of free speech.
The commission has almost arbitrary powers. A
station owner whose investment may easily run over
$100,000, may have his station silenced and his in­
vestment ruined because the Commission does not
renew his license. The Commission usually gives as
an excuse for this high-handed action that operation
of the station is “against public interest.” But its
interpretations of what is “against the public inter­
est” are as varied as they are ludicrous. One station
can “get away with murder,” while another is shut
down for a flimsy excuse.
It is strange how many ex-Commissioners and
other employes of the Commission gravitate toward
employment by the radio powers after leaving the
Commission.
The six-year term for Radio Commissioners means
they are beyond all other power in the United States.
' For instance if President Roosevelt believed the
present personnel of the Commission, was inade­
quate, inefficient, “against the public interest,” or
worse, he could do little' to correct what he might
think were terrible evils in the Radio Commission.
Of course, Baker did not quit fighting: he can
392 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
never quit, until he retires with honor, with all of his
fights won. Just one week after that final broad­
cast, a war veteran had written to the Veterans
Bureau for permission to have his wife treated for
cancer, or carcinoma, in the Baker Hospital.
On June 19,1931, the Medical Director of the Vet­
erans Administration, United States Veterans Bur­
eau, wrote him, refusing the request, and referring to
the Baker Hospital as “ a healing cult.” Baker
wrote an eloquent letter, establishing his cures—his
practical monopoly of cures of cancers. Callously
the magnificent offer was rejected again.
This was the sort of rebuff that the powers
that be always administered to this genuine lover
and healer of humanity. The same thing had hap­
pened to him already, earlier this same summer, in
that fight between the farmers and the government
forces colloquially referred to as the Cow Tail War
in Iowa. This was a contest between the embattled
farmers of Iowa, and the organized veterinarians,
aided by the Department of Agriculture of Iowa, to
force the tuberculin testing of cattle. The public
has not yet been told the farmers’ side of the story;
the press would not give them space.
On March 19,1931, over four thousand Iowa farm­
ers, born and raised in the State, crowded the Capitol
in Des Moines, protesting against the viciousness of
the compulsory tuberculin testing law. These were
only a small representative group of the majority of
the State’s farmers, who correctly labeled the law as
the work of the serum manufacturers, meat packers,
and veterinarians. They showed that two stock­
holders or directors of large Chicago packing com­
panies held official positions in the Iowa Department
B a k er’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 393
of Agriculture. They held that these men were
placed there to force through this compulsory bo­
vine tuberculin testing law, in order to accomplish
the purchase of farmers’ cattle at condemned prices.
The Iowa farmers do not object to an adequate
testing of their cattle for tuberculosis; they would
welcome an infallible test. What they complain
justly of is that this particular law was, in effect,
another typical American racket: especially since
healthy cows react to the tuberculin testing, and
tubercular cows, nearly dead, pass one hundred per
cent. The farmers also fought for the right to select
a veterinary of their own choosing, to protect their
rights against dishonest or inefficient veterinarians.
They pointed out that the State inspectors were ex­
tremely careless in making the tests, and could make
it react or fail, whichever they chose. They cited
cases where the inspectors, in testing, raised the
cow’s tail, injected the tuberculin serum, and laid
their syringe on the barn doorsill, in the midst of
manure and filth; then picked it up and used it on
the next cow, without sterilizing it. This filth could
cause infection; the cow’s tail would swell, and it
would be classed as a reactor. If a lump appears in
two or three days after injection, the veterinarian
claims that this establishes tuberculosis in the cow.
The worthlessness of the test appears from the fact
that a veterinarian could use an empty needle, and
cause a swelling by the way he inserted it; much
more so would laying the needle in barnyard filth
cause a swelling. In self-defense, many farmers,
immediately after the injection, as soon as the vet­
erinary left, would apply alcohol or some other sub-
394 Doctors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
stance to the cow’s tail, and thus kill the effects of
the tuberculin.
The farmers produced affidavits and other evi­
dence, showing that cattle taken from them as “re­
actors” and sold to the packers as “tankers”, were
found, upon slaughtering, to be perfectly healthy; in
which case, the meat was canned, and otherwise
sold to the markets for public consumption. Such
condemned cattle, bought at low prices, were sup­
posed to be sent to the tanks for making oil and
grease; instead, the packers obtained them at the
condemned prices, and used them for meat. In other
cases, the farmers saw the slaughtered cattle have
a few tubercular cells removed, while the rest was
sold to the public for meat. Since tuberculosis is
systemic and travels by the blood, according to the
A. M. A. doctrines, this meant the sale of tainted
diseased meat to the public.
The farmers pointed out that the manufacturers
of tuberculin had made millions from the sale of
their medicinal filth; that the veterinarians received
ten dollars a day for injecting it; that the meat
packers thus had millions of head of cattle con­
demned, bought them at condemned prices, and sold
them as good meat, meaning a profit of millions of
dollars to them. All these three forces were com­
bined to “put over” the law. When a cow was con­
demned, the packers bought it cheaply; the State,
in many instances, paid the rest of the appraised
value of the condemned animal to the farmer, thus
saddling the taxpayers with this unnecessary burden,
to benefit the packers. The farmers linked the
whole group of State and National Departments of
Agriculture, the Veterinarians Association, the Farm
B a k e r ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT 395
Bureau and their county agents, with the American
Medical Association, all working against the farmers.
The Farm Bureau, they pointed out, was fought by
the Farm Union and the Farm Grange, because it was
organized by Chicago capital as a purely com­
mercial venture, and in its work was inimical to the
farmers. For the Farm Bureau has been made a
part of the Department of Agriculture, and each
county is required to advance so many thousands of
dollars each year for its maintenance. Merchants
and professional men of every city belong to and
contribute to these Farm Bureaus, in order to get
some of the farmers’ business; just as they join
lodges and civic clubs, to stimulate business. Many
Iowa farmers have gone into court, to seek to enjoin
their counties from paying money to the Farm
Bureau.
The farmers wanted an infallible test. Baker
advocated the milk test. The tuberculin propon­
ents said that tuberculosis could pass from the cow
to the human being by drinking the milk, and cause
human tuberculosis. Baker properly ridiculed the
idea; nevertheless, it would at least be a fairer test
than the tuberculin one. The serum manufacturers
and the rest do not favor the milk test, since not more
than 10% of the cattle now condemned would be
condemned under it. They began to shout that the
milk could not be tested for tuberculosis; Baker
investigated, through pathological laboratories, and
found out that the test could easily be applied. Baker
furnished the names of these laboratories to many
farmers. They had the milk from their cows tested,
and ascertained by trial that the milk tests did not
give the same results as the tuberculin tests. Tests
396 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
made by Cedar County farmers who had milk testa
made after the tuberculin test was administered,
proved the tuberculin test wrong.
The governor and the legislators, after promising
an adequate tuberculosis test, broke their promises.
The farmers resorted to direct action. First they
locked the gates of their farms. If the inspectors
insisted on opening them, sometimes they would find
themselves thrown out into the middle of the road;
and sometimes the farmers’ children would merely
pelt them with ancient eggs, which in all faith smelt
better than the tuberculin group’s activities. The
inspectors would come with a crowd too large for
any farmer to handle. The telephones would be
resorted to; the neighboring farmers would turn out
en masse, two hundred to eight hundred of them,
and the testers would go away without injecting their
filthy substance within the tails of the cows.
Governor Dan Turner, a “friend of the farmers”
before election, finally called out the State militia
against them! The farmers swarmed like enraged
bees to the State House. The Legislature was in
session. The Senate at once tabled all its other
business, to give them a hearing. From one in the
afternoon to eleven at night the farmers talked,
demanding an optional law instead of the compul­
sory one.
And then the healthiest 4-H girl in the United
States was picked out as Marian E. Snydergaard from
Grundy County, Iowa, with a record of 99.7 out of a
possible 100. And then it was discovered that seven
cows on the Snydergaard farm, whose milk fifteen-
year-old Marian drank, were tubercular. In other
words, her health had come from drinking tubercu-
397
/
B a k er ’s F inal B roadcast Over K-TNT
lar milk. No paper except the Midwest Free Press
printed this authenticated story: if they had, the
tuberculin testing law would have died in a wave of
popular indignation. Baker had used his magazine
TNT and his radio station K-TNT, as long as it was
permitted to remain open, to broadcast the facts
about the tuberculin test to the farmers of the
country. His enemies sniped at him with little lying
stories, such as a dispatch to the Des Moines Regis­
ter and Leader that a National Guardsman had forced
him to move his car, over Baker’s protests. Only,
no such incident whatever had happened. Nor even
one word spoken by Baker to a guardsman, or by a
guardsman to Baker. No wonder the newspapers
•were angry with him: the farmers excluded all of
them from their property, during this cow-tail war,
and gave Baker free access to their places and gather­
ings. Baker, of course, forced an immediate re­
traction from the Register and Leader; but mean­
while the silly little slur had spread far and wide,
and the other papers did not print the retraction.
At the next election, Governor Dan Turner and
John Fletcher, both antagonistic to the farmers, weré
turned out of office. There were swift indictments
against some of the more active leaders of the farm­
ers; but all of these persecutions failed. The Fair-
field, Iowa Grand Jury sought to indict Baker for
his part in the fight, and even summoned his secre­
tary with files of the Free Press; but they could find
no.evidence upon which to base an indictment. Baker
was told that the sheriff’s office at Tipton had a war­
rant for his arrest, in Cedar County. He drove over
and offered to surrender. There was no warrant.
The war ended with a temporary victory for the
398 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
serum manufacturers, the veterinarians and the
packers. But it had cost the State of Iowa nearly a
million dollars, when to the actual cost is added the
cost of raising the cows’ tails and buying the serum.
There was an aftermath to the fight. The farmers
finally found that they were to be kicked off their
farms by the mortgagees, since the depression had
made it impossible to meet their payments. They
knocked at the gates of the legislature, and secured
some extensions. The insurance companies and
bankers sought to foreclose anyhow. The country
knows the result. One judge was yanked out of his
private study in the Courthouse, was slapped, drag­
ged out, deprived of his pants, roped as if for hang­
ing. Farmers gathered at every mortgage sale and
bought the property for a dollar or so, giving it back
to the owner: they notified the lawyer for the mort­
gagee, the sheriff and the rest of them that they had
better not put in a bid. These were wise, and did
not bid; or there might have been bloodshed, or the
use of the rope that spills no blood yet does its work.
Again the governor, Herring this time, called out the
militia. This may cost him a reelection. It should.
No wonder, when a man like Baker sided so uni­
formly with the common people, that the self-elected
thieving “big money” classes decided he must be
silenced, and forever. And now they had closed
K-TNT. What was he to do next?
CHAPTER XVIII
THE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
ON TRIAL
Baker realized that, with his station K-TNT closed,
his fight to have it reopened would be harder than
ever, because the radio commission would point to
the fact that Iowa was “over-quota.” Of course, it was
still over-quota after K-TNT went off the air; in
spite of this, the commission granted WOC of Daven­
port and WHO of Des Moines an increase of 50,000
watts, making Iowa more over-quota than ever. By
this precedent, the proper popular insistence may
force them to restore to K-TNT the rights taken from
it; this, even though this means that the bestowal of
the 50,000 watts to WOC-WHO must be reduced.
The Progressive Publishing Company of Muscatine
was one of the corporations Baker had formed and in
which he was a large stockholder, together with
1,100 other stockholders among the farmers, labor­
ers and general public of the midwest. Baker wrote
the commission for permission to transfer the station
to the Progressive Publishing Company. They wrote
him, under date of October 6, 1931:
You are hereby notified that at a,meeting held
October 6, 1931, the Commission denied the
above described application (file no.-4-AL-B-
383, In re Application Norman Baker, for Vol­
untary Assignment of License, dated 9/12/31),
for the reason that the proposed assignor now
has no license which can be the subject of a
voluntary assignment.
They wrote the Progressive Publishing Company,
399
400 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
pointing out that the quota due to Iowa was 7.30;
that the quota assigned was 11.45; and that the
granting of an application to them would violate
General Order No. 102, paragraphs 1 and 3, unless
equivalent quota facilities were withdrawn from an
existing station located in Iowa. The commission
evidently intended to forbid Baker to sell his prop­
erty, or transfer its license, on which the highest
court in the land has never yet passed. And, after
this letter, the same commission increased the chain
station subsidiary, WOC-WHO, 50,000 watts: which
shows how the official mind functions, when the
radio trust us involved. WOC-WHO finally separ­
ated after building their new station in Central Iowa.
Then WOC petitioned the commission for another
radio station at Davenport, where WOC is located,
and secured it. One outside voice alone had been
raised in favor of K-TNT, and that was the voice of
Representative Harold McGugin, of the third Kan­
sas district, who filed a powerful brief with the radio
commission, protesting against their decision in the
K-TNT case. They paid no attention to him.
As already stated, Baker had leased his hospital to
Dr. W. W. Potter, an Iowa registered physician
who had come to Muscatine from Mediapolis, Iowa,
and had purchased the practice of Dr. Frank Hal­
stead of Muscatine. An intrigue developed inside the
hospital. Both sides brought their gossip, levelled
mainly against Dr. Potter, to Baker. Everyone dis­
liked the embroglio, making it necessary to cancel
his lease. Baker was too busy, with his plans to re­
move to Mexico and build the world’s largest radio
' T he A merican Medical A ssociation on T rial 401
station, to sift the trouble to the bottom. Dr. Potter
returned to Mediapolis.
After he left, Baker sold the hospital to Dr. J. L.
Statler, who had been with the hospital since its in­
ception, even during the Potter regime. R. A. Bel­
lows, superintendent of all Baker’s enterprises, who
had given half his time to the management of the
hospital under Dr. Potter, continued the same ar­
rangement under Dr. Statler.
Meanwhile, January, 1932 had arrived, and Baker
was preparing to fly to Mexico City, to secure a per­
mit for building a radio station on the Mexican bor­
der. Bellows promised to run things in a way that
would reflect credit upon Baker’s name; and, with
this reassurance, Baker left for Mexico City. At
Moline, Illinois, he embarked on an airplane; and
landed in Mexico City early the third day.
First he secured a permanent passport, issued by
the Mexican government. Then he organized a
Mexican corporation, and secured permission to build
a 100,000 watt station at Nuevo Laredo, in the State
of Tamaulipas, Mexico, across the Rio Grande from
Laredo, Texas. He had, before leaving Muscatine,
filed suit for half a million dollars against the Ameri­
can Medical Association; and this had been set for
trial before Federal Judge Dewey, in the Federal
Court at , Davenport, for February 8, 1932. He
received a wire in Mexico City to be on hand February
9th for the A. M. A. trial; and informing him that
Judge Dewey, an Iowan, had been removed from the
case, and sent to Minnesota, while Judge Nordbye
i
402 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
from the Mayo Clinic State, had been named to hear
the case. Baker boarded a plane at Mexico City on
Sunday morning about 8:30, and arrived in Moline
at five o’clock, Monday evening. The case was set
for the next morning in Davenport.
Since 1930 the Journal of the A. M. A. had been
attacking Baker, under the editorship of Dr. Morris
Fishbein; and on the day of the Journal’s appearance,
or even before, the Kansas City Star would reprint
the articles and start to pound Baker. They did
this with other people attacked in the Journal. Libel
suits to the tune of several million dollars are in the
courts against them now, for this too assiduous es­
pousal of the A. M. A. causes. The case opened.
The A. M. A. had imported three Chicago lawyers,
and had engaged also local counsel. Baker was not
financially able to engage attorneys with much Fed­
eral Court experience; he stood his ground with
Charles P. Hanley, of Muscatine, and James France,
of Tipton. The American Medical Association still
openly boasts that no one has ever won a verdict from
them for over a few cents. This is no compliment
to the independence of the American judiciary. But
the judges, so far, have not resented the wide slur.
When the A. M. A. engages in a case, its double effort
is to win, and also to drain its opponent financially.
It will spend large sums to do this. Baker’s suit
against them is said to have cost between $100,000
and $150,000; reports were that their attorneys had
received a retainer of $30,000, which shows how
seriously they regarded Baker’s action.
T he A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 403
They started the drain a long time in advance.
More than 100 costly depositions were taken, Avith
Baker’s representatives present, at his expense,—
some $8,000. Baker’s attorneys acted in many ways
harmful to Baker’s interests. The case opened Avith
a Minnesota judge,—the state that holds the Mayo
Clinic. It lasted three and a half weeks. Baker’s
attorneys refused to allow Baker’s searching ques­
tions about cancer to be propounded to the A. M. A.
experts. They permitted misleading entries from his
books to be introduced. The judge announced to the
lawyers that he would set aside any verdict, except
for a nominal amount. Baker, and 17 cured patients,
established his cures. The defense offered an inac­
curate analysis of a mixture falsely said to be Bak­
er’s remedy. The defense experts tended to admit
the inability of A. M. A./doctors to cure cancer.
Baker’s experts established that the A. M. A. rem­
edies might be ‘‘successful, ’’ but usually killed the
patient. Baker could have established, from the
highest medical sources, the failure of the A. M. A.
methods, radium, X-ray, and operation. Some of
this got into the evidence.
And so the taking of evidence ended, and it came
to the summing up of the attorneys, for both sides.
In his closing argument, Baker’s attorney, Hanley,
lauded Baker to the skies, as a great humanitarian
in the work of actually curing cancer for humanity's
sake. And then came the judge’s charge to the
jury. The jury was instructed to determine whether
or not the A. M. A. was fully justified in printing the
articles that accused the plaintiff of quackery and
being a boastful pretender and a medical practitioner.
The court defined “fake” as being any person or
thing that was not what is pretended or represented
404 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
to be. If the alleged libelous articles, in their judg­
ment, were true, they were to find for the defense;
if untrue, to find for the plaintiff. They were to
determine the amount of malice present, if the articles
were untrue, and this might add to the amount of the
damages assessed. He said further, in substance,
that even though a cure for cancer has been shown
by the many people who testified in the case that
they were cured of cancer, still the treatment could
be a fake. The judge repeated the alleged libel, as
published in the Journal of the American Medical
Association on April 12, 1930:
In Iowa at Muscatine from Station KTNT broad­
casts a businessman named Baker who is selling
a cancer cure with cigars and a cheap magazine
as side lines. His cancer cure includes the old
Hoxsey fake, originally promoted in Illinois and
apparently now resident also in Iowa. This
nostrum for cancer is boomed by Mr. Baker
over his radio station KTNT, which can be heard
almost anywhere after 11:00 at night This is
exceedingly proper since it is the time of night
when many devious and doubtful matters are
promoted. Over his privately controlled station
Baker, indulges in a repetition of much of the
scandalous insinuation that proprietary manu­
facturers used back in 1905 when they first at­
tempted to hinder the battle of the American
Medical Association against the promotion of
medical fraud.
Baker has even claimed that the American
Medical Association offered him one million -
dollars for his cancer cure with the intent of forc­
ing it from the market so that patients might be
compelled to resort to surgery for the saving of
their lives. The lie is so obviously false to' any
person with intelligence above that of a moron
T h e American Medical A ssociation on Trial 405
that it needs little thought to convince his hear­
ers of its fallacy___ What is Mr. Baker doing
with the money that he, is snaring from the
pockets of sufferers with cancer and wheedling
from the funds of chiropractors, naturopaths,
nostrum promoters and other medical malcon­
tent?
The viciousness of Mr. Baker’s broadcasting
lies not in what he says about the American
Medical Association but in the fact that he in­
duces sufferers from cancer, who might have
some chance for their lives if seen early and
properly treated, to resort to his nostrum. The
method can result in Muscatine, Iowa, as it did in
Taylorville, Illinois—merely in death certificates
signed by the physicians who have been so poor
in finances and in morals as to sell their birth­
right to Mr. Baker for his mess of garbage.
This was not the only article complained of. An
equally vicious attack appeared in the same peri­
odical on April 19, 1930, which referred to “Norman
Baker's cancer cure quackery;” said that the Des
Moines Register had “made an investigation of its
own which established the utter falsehood of the
claims made by him in his radio talks”. It called
Baker “an exposed cancer quack,” a “blatant quack” ;
it spoke of his “obscene mouthings and pernicious
promotings.” An equally vicious article appeared
during May, 1930 in Hygeia, The Health Magazine,
an A. M. A. effusion, under the heading “Broadcast­
ing Bunk,” consisting of a reprint of the first Journal
libel.
These articles breathe malice, hatred, outrageous
lying. The judge’s charge included the state­
ment of the defense that patients at the Baker Hospi­
tal were charged for the treatment “ranging from
406 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
$50 a week to $100 a week . . . . sometimes the pa­
tient had to board himself, and had to pay $50 to
$100 a week in addition for the treatment;” and the
further statement of the defense that “no appreciable
results were ever obtained by the Baker Institute by
the use of this so-called cancer treatment.” The
judge insinuated that Baker and his associates, even
if their remedies were genuine, were quacks, in that
they did not have sufficient medical skill and experi­
ence, although he knew Baker’s associates were Iowa
licensed doctors with over twenty years experience.
After this charge, the jury was dismissed to de­
liberate. They were not locked up; the judge
stated that he had no funds at his disposal to have
this done. The jury consisted of Iowa farmers and
small town merchants, whose battles Baker had for
so long fought over K-TNT. Only one thing made
him wonder, about the constitution of this particular
jury. After the trial had been in progress some two
weeks, a man had approached him in the alley
behind his office, in Muscatine, as he was walking
from his garage toward the Free Press building.
It was after midnight; Baker put his hand on his
gun, fearing a holdup. The man identified him­
self as an Iowa citizen, and asked to be taken to
Baker’s office on a matter of importance. Once there,
he said-that he was in a position to swing the jury:
that is, to dictate their verdict. He said he would
do this in Baker’s favor, if Baker would give the
jurymen a percentage of the verdict. Baker accused
him of being an A. M. A. spotter, seeking to have
Baker jailed for attempting to bribe the jury. Baker
sent him away, giving him no satisfaction.
. Three nights later, again after midnight, the man
T h e A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 407
approached Baker; and said the jury was fixed, if
Baker would pay $1,000 down, and 5% of the ver­
dict, it would be in Baker’s favor. A third time,
when this was rejected, the offer was made to Baker.
Again Baker turned down the dishonest offer.
The case ended the next afternon, about five.
The judge’s address extended until twenty minutes
past six. The jury was dismissed, with the judge’s
recommendation that they meet that evening to de­
liberate, and to be sure to be in the juryroom early
the next morning. Of course, this subjected the
jury to potential approach and bribing from any
source. The judge said that the Court had no money
to spend in locking the jury up and feeding them.
Baker still feels that he lost the case, because of the
poverty of the Federal Court. If efforts had been
made to get him to bribe the jury, the same attempt
may have been made with the other side.
Just before noon the next day the jury returned,
and their verdict was rea<j: “We, the jury, find for the
defendant.” The judge’s charge, the jury’s decision,
were clearly based on the theory that, while Baker’s
cancer cure was really quite possibly efficacious,
that it had been administered under Baker’s direction,
by two practical nurses and a chiropractor, none of
whom was a licensed physician; and that the ad­
ministering of even the most efficacious cure in the
world, in such amateur hands, constituted medical
quackery. Said the judge,
The mere fact that there may have been cures
does not conclusively establish the falsity of the
charge of “cancer quack,” “quackery,” or
“fake.”
It is quite eyident that this theory does not cover the
facts of the case, when on the one hand you have
408 Doctors, D ynam iters and Gunmen
the American Medical Association and its inter­
affiliations covering every state and county in the
country, every channel of public health service,
every important quasi-public position, such as in
the leading hospitals, with the leading insurance
companies, with the leading lodges and other groups,
and the like; and on the other hand you have Nor­
man Baker, one layman unqualified in medicine, but
with an authentic cancer cure. When, furthermore,
you have organized medicine, thus a virtual monopo­
ly, irrevocably wedded to their trinity of cancer treat­
ments, by operations, by the use of X-rays, by the
use of radium, all of which are deeply suspected even
among themselves, or definitely harmful and fatal.
When, furthermore, you have organized medicine
refusing even to investigate Baker’s authentic cancer
cure, since its adoption would end their huge toll for
their suspect or harmful and fatal treatments. When,
desiring to cure mankind of this scourge, and with
the doors of the A. M. A. rigidly and selfishly locked
against him, there was nothing left for him to do,
layman as he was, but to rely upon such persons,
unqualified of course in A. M. A. eyes, as would help
in this alleviating and curing human suffering. In
effect, the A. M. A. said to him, “We, the qualified,
won’t aid you in your cure of cancer; and we won’t
let you cure it with the aid of those we call un­
qualified.” Their definition for unqualified, may
be any doctor that works for Baker. This is an
outright denial of medical freedom; this is a mo­
nopolistic suppression of an important method of
healing and cure, is contrary to public policy, the
very thing Dr. Benjamin Rush argued against, as far
back as the framing of the Declaration of Indepen-
T h e A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 409
dence. The judge failed to say any of this in his
charge.
Baker had achieved something: he had made the
organized doctors change their slogan of “Cancer
is incurable” to “Cancer is curable if taken in. time;
see your doctor if you find a suspicious lump.”
Baker’s victory in the case would have established
that the American Medical Association and its mem­
bership were the quacks and fakers; operations, X-
ray treatments, radium treatments for cancer, with
their enormous doctor’s fees, would have passed into
oblivion— as they must, soon enoilgh: Baker’s cure
would have become the standard, to the saving of
millions of dollars of the money of patients, and
endless agonies and human lives now callously
sacrificed upon the altar of medical greed. With
reason the medical octopus stood ready to spend an
unlimited sum, to prevent these things from hap­
pening. They' prevented them, thanks to the judge
and the jury. And Baker achieved one thing more:
since that time, the A. M. A. has printed no further
articles calling him fake or quack. They almost got
their fingers badly burned, that one time; they dread
the Baker fire. If any such articles come into the
hands of readers of this book, it will, be of service
to humanity if they are at once forwarded to Baker;
for he is not through with the organized conspirators
against human health yet.
The whole case constitutes a crying outrage in
American justice. It cries aloud for swift govern­
ment investigation of the iniquitous libeling A. M.
A., and speedy dissolution of their monopoly.
Readers of this book can not too soon start sending
their barrage of demands for this investigation to
410 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
every United States government official, the Presi­
dent, members of his Cabinet, Senators, Congress­
men: enough of such letters, and the belly-cutting
throat-cutting monopoly will be investigated, and
exposed, and dissolved, and medical freedom for the
first time bring its blessings to America.
Baker had suffered enough from the amateurish­
ness of his attorneys, unused to Federal Court pro­
cedure. Soon after the trial was over, Mr. Hanley
presented his reasonable bill for his services, and was
promptly paid. Mr. France, the other counsel,
rendered no bill." The trial ended in March; the
same month, Baker returned to Mexico. Baker left
word with his sister, Irma Baker, his bookkeeper and
treasurer, to let him know as soon as the bill came in,
so that Baker could check it over and pay it. After
some weeks he wrote his sister about it; she replied
that she had never received it. One day, Mr. France
came to Muscatine and secured an attachment against
Baker’s property for the amount of his bill. He
had agreed on $35 a day, with his actual expenses.
The bill as rendered was for $100 a day. Baker at
once wrote a friendly letter to France, asking why
he had made this overcharge, and why he had never
presented any bill. There was no answer to this.
The courts forced the lawyer to release his attach­
ment, and he now waits for an opportunity to serve
papers upon Baker, to commence suit for the collec­
tion of his fee. His unethical and unfriendly pro­
cedure may force him to wait until the highest court
in the land fixes what compensation he is entitled to
receive. Of course, his procedure meant more un­
desirable publicity against Baker, unfair as it was,
and his journalistic opponents were quick to snap it
T h e A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 411
up and inflate its importance. But that is one of
the hazards of the enormous fight Baker is waging,
with the world for a stage and the forces of dark­
ness for the villain he is sure to overcome, in the end.
How they liked to jump on him, these lickspittle he-
harlots of the press! Thoughtlessly, during one day
of the trial, Baker, with permission to carry a pistol,
started into the courtroom with it. The Federal
marshal called Baker aside quietly, when tipped otf
to do so, and relieved him of it for the day, promising
to return it in the evening. The Davenport and
other papers spread the headlines screaming across
the entire front page, BAKER DENIED GUN IN
FEDERAL COURT. Well-behaved lads, these news­
paper boys! They never disappoint you; you can
always be sure in just what direction they will twist
the truth.
Well, Baker had had another sample of American
justice. Thoughtfully he returned to Mexico.
It became clearer to Baker that something must
be done to relieve the friction at the Baker Hospital.
And yet, Baker had to proceed to Mexico. Already,
though he had secured permission to build a 100,000
watt station, he desired an even stronger one. He
warned Bellows, the superintendent whose affairs
of the heart were causing intrigues among the staff
and employees of the hospital, to cease these, and
proceeded south. He was asked to address the
Chamber of Commerce at Laredo, Texas, and did
so. He told them how XENT, with 150,000 watts
of power, would be the largest commercial broad­
casting station on the North American continent, to
be built within ten miles of their front door, on the
Monterrey highway eight miles from Nuevo Laredo.
412 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
He explained how the station would work with the
Mexican Departments to exploit the beauty, the art,
the wonders of Mexico, and thus attract tourists. He
explained that the broadcasting would be of same
high type as K-TNT had been; and proposed to ex­
ploit Laredo, Texas, as well, by having the Texas
town mentioned once every hour over XENT. Baker’s
one proposition was that he wanted the Laredo
Chamber of Commerce to guarantee the expense for
building the highline eight miles to the station, a
total of about $5,000, or deposited as a token of
cooperation, to be paid over a period of several years;
the amount to be placed in escrow to protect them
against any promoting scheme, and not to be paid
until the station was completed. He was going to
spend a quarter of a million dollars; he asked Laredo,
Texas, to spend five thousand for the highline.
The President of the Chamber told Baker finally
that they were not interested: several of their
directors could not understand how a large broad­
casting station could possibly be of any advantage
to their city.
/ And so Baker crossed the river to Nuevo Laredo—
this was in March, 1932. He has lived there ever
since. He at once bought a 75 acre site on the paved
highway from Nuevo Laredo to Monterrey, just
fourteen kilometers, or eight miles, from the river
town. He selected rolling land along the highway,
and the highest hill in the neighborhood. The radio
towers are visible from Laredo, Texas, ten miles
away. Construction was started at once. The main
building is fifty feet wide and seventy-two feet long,
with a second story over a third of it, used for office
and living quarters. The Diesel engine house, two
An
unusual
view
of
X
E
N
T
at
Nuevo
Laredo,
Mexico.
Large
Diesel
engines
of
1330
horsepower
and
900,000
watt
generators
supply
the
electric
power
for
this
150,000
watt
station.
414 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
stories high, and other buildings are in the rear.
Attractive stuccoed brick walls connect all the build­
ings, making one unit of the whole.
An effort was now made to steal the Baker Hos­
pital in Muscatine. The effort failed.
When K-TNT was closed, in 1931, Baker’s one
method of reaching the people of Iowa was to go to
them and speak to them. He addressed more than
225,000 people in about twelve weeks, at times
making four speeches in one day, with only two days
a week devoted to this tour. The crowds varied
from fifteen hundred to twelve thousand. Near
West Branch, Iowa, Hoover’s birthplace, Baker drew
twice as large a crowd as the amply advertised
Hoover meeting here: drew. These meetings upset
the medical group intensely. Some said Baker was
out for Governor; others, that he aspired to shoulder
the Senatorial toga. Baker has no political am­
bitions: he has twenty-five hours work to do every
twenty-four hours; and he knows that, once in office,
he would within a month be leading a hue and cry
against every dishonest official in the State, from
cowtail raisers to bedsheet measurers.
Perhaps it was the disgruntled hospital groups,
perhaps it was the slimy Iowa tentacle of the giant
medical octopus, that started the State after Baker
again: or perhaps both. Anything to tie Baker up
in that summer of 1932, to delay work on XENT, to
hobble his efforts to run for office, the very prospect
of which made their meals sit uneasy within them.
The newspapers joined the merry chase. Soon the
County Attorney of Muscatine County, Harold Wil­
son, had a warrant sworn out for Baker’s arrest on
“information.” The warrant was for “Conspiracy
T h e A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 415
against the medical laws of Iowa;” it carried a fine
and imprisonment. The law, in extradition cases,
requires the filing of affidavits, or an indictment;
decisions explicitly refuse extradition upon informa­
tion only. But what’s the law, between such as
Baker’s enemies? The papers were sent to Des
Moines ; Governor Dan Turner O. K.’d them. Turner
requested Baker’s extradition from Governor Ster­
ling of Texas, in April of 1932. Harold Wilson and
Sheriff 'Nesper had a pleasant ride down to Texas
at the Iowa taxpayers’ expense, to turn the extra­
dition papers over to the Texas governor, and the
warrant over to the Texas Rangers. Maybe a beer
or two across the Mexican boundary.
Naturally, Baker’s opponents did not sleep easy,
when they knew he was building a 150,000 watt
station in Mexico; he might spill more beans about
them than all Boston needed for its baked bean
industry. They made every effort to delay and
prevent the completion of Mexican station XENT.
A person connected with the Kansas City Star, or
stating he was so connected, telephoned to Mexico
City to make trouble for Baker there. Alas for his
scheming, Baker was sitting at the desk of the
Mexican official in Mexico City, when the conversa­
tion took place. Baker was at once informed; and
the power of his station was at once increased to
150,000 watts. Mexican officials advised Baker to
remain in Mexico until XENT was completed and in
operation; if he crossed the border, they hinted,
anything might happen, to delay the construction of
the station. Baker followed this friendly counsel.
He did not leave Mexico until the station was in
operation and he had told his story to the world.
416 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
When this was accomplished, Baker marched across
his Rubicon upon American soil, and gave the anti-
Bakerites a fight that will not end until their end. He
will come back with his microphone, or on it. \At
this writing, Sheriff F. B. Nesper of Muscatin Coun­
ty, Iowa, still holds the warrant for Baker’s extradi­
tion. The Iowa opposition has grown tepid; its lead­
ers have expressed a willingness to drop the matter.
But Democrats and Republicans are so deadlocked
there, that Governor Herring and other politicians
to this date appear afraid to do anything. The case is
still open. Harold Wilson, Mucatine County attorney,
stated he was agreeable to quash the entire affair.
Mr. O’Connor, states attorney, stated he did not
desire to proceed with the dirt of ex-John Fletcher
and Gerald Blake of attorney general’s office. Clyde
Herring, governor, refers the matter to the others.
The Republicans say to the Democrats—you quash
it. The Democrats say,—no, you quash it. Baker
in the meantime remains a political football, while
the Governor of Iowa and the others lack the courage
,to correct the wrong.
Luckily, Baker has secured affidavits from some
of the very ones who swore to statements before the
States Attorney’s office, telling precisely who
prompted them to do what they did, and correcting
their former statements. The State of Iowa will
soon have no witnesses left in the case, except
Carpenter and Snyder, if they can be located still.
Again, they had Baker cited before the Supreme
Court of Iowa, to show cause why he should not be
punished for violating the injunction standing against
1 In June, 1935, Mr. Baker went to Iowa, where they served their warrant
on him See last chapter
T h e A merican Medical A ssociation on T rial 417
him from the 1931 Supreme Court decision. This
gave them two handles to their skillet they wanted
to fry him on: the warrant for conspiracy, the cita­
tion regarding the old injunction. Any recipe would
do, so long as the malodorous mess—Baker in jail—
was cooked up. In jail, Baker may prove a better
fighter even than out of it. He’ll leave friends and
supporters outside, never fear. If only America could
give birth to a Medical Freedom League, to oppose
the monopoly; if only the Farmer-Labor party,
strengthening daily, would demand medical free­
dom— These things may happen, even while I
write them.
Baker now returned to the man to whom he had
first leased the hospital, Dr. Potter, and leased it to
him, after Dr. Aitkens was forced out. The long
fight to close the hospital, to stop the Baker cancer
treatments, has failed, so far. An aroused public
opinion must see to it that it fails forever. If Baker’s
cure was not authentic, he would have been jailed,
and the hospital closed, long ago. The hospital has
a record none other can boast of. Hundreds and
hundreds of cures of cancer, many of them established
repeatedly in court.1A hospital four years old, with­
out a major operation, with no radium or X-ray treat­
ments; and constantly sending cured cancer patients
home. Unfortunately, many of these patients came
and left penniless. These and others have been
threatened with boycott by the regular doctors, if
they permit their names to be used in testimonials.
But the record stands: 75% cures in cases of external
cancer, about 65% cures in cases of cancer of the
1 Now, 1936 there are No. I and No. 2 Baker Hospitals at Muscatine,
with 3 and 6 year records of cures.
418 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
breast or the uterus. In appendicitis and gall blad­
der troubles, not one complete failure. And all
because those who engendered and have run the
hospital know that Nature is the best doctor; that
fresh fruit and vegetables are always better than
A. M. A. canned variety; that gall bladders, appen­
dixes, and tonsils have indispensable functions in the
body, and must be left in to perform these, unless
hopelessly diseased, a condition that perhaps never
occurs.
Baker had considered a long time, before deciding
on Mexico. Canada would not do: from a radio
standpoint, Canada was entirely under the thumb
of the United States.
But Mexico was different. Medical associations
are trying to control radio but there is freedom there,
and justice, and less monopolistic control: Baker
has found this out. There are germs of the evils;
but they have not grown great and menacing yet.
Baker has, of course, been annoyed by his American
enemies, even in Mexico. Suspicious strangers
loitering near his lovely home on Victoria Street, in
Nuevo Laredo. A burglar who broke in and stole
his keys,trousers,shoes, socks, eyeglasses, and watch,
as well as a few insurance policies. The A. M. A.
communicated with the Chamber of Commerce at
Nuevo Laredo: was it true Norman Baker was build­
ing a radio station there? It was, was the answer.
They began to move against Baker. But the Mexi­
can doctors are more independent than those of the
United States. They prescribe any treatment they
believe to be good, whether recognized by the medi­
cal society or not: they are not “civilized” enough
voluntarily to emasculate themselves at the dictates
Th e A merican Medical A ssociation on Trial 419
of'the selfish allopathic group. A number of root
and herb medicines áre commonly prescribed. It
is true the Mexican people, some sixteen million,
have no easily available literature telling the truths
about health. There is a field in Mexico for such a
publication. It may be filled at any time. The
Mexican people are highly intelligent, contrary to
the opinion current in the United Statés, so carefully
fostered by our grasping capitalistic groups. Ameri­
cans have been taught that Mexico is an ignorant
land, practically schoolless, with bandits on every
hilltop and in every valley, with robbery of foreign­
ers on dark streets, with immoral women as a rule.
All lying propaganda, spread by sensational press
stories that ignore wholly the intellectual progress,
the natural wonders, the natural and man-made
beauty, the art, the morals, of Mexico.1 Baker had
lived two years there; his opinion of the peopleTtás
risen momentarily. Their domestic life is adiniráble;
their public conduct, exemplary. There are palaces
to rival any in the world; even the humblest'hovels
have the grace of flowers in bloom. Wife-beating
is unknown. Divorces are as scarce as independent
doctors in the United States. The people as a whole
are gracious, courteous, obliging. Some are shrewd
in business; caveat emptor is ancient as an answer
to this.
Meanwhile, Iowa had been placarded by the press
with the statement that Baker was a fugitive from
justice. It was stated by Mr. France, of Tipton,
Iowa, one of Baker’s attorneys, in his effort to attach
property, which was heralded in the Muscatine
1 At this date. May, 1936, Mr. Baker has lived 4 years in Mexico, spending
part of his time in Iowa.
420 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Journal and reprinted over the midwest. There was
only one good answer for it: for Baker to accept the
proposition that had been made to him, that he run
for Governor of Iowa, on the Farmer-Labor ticket.
Baker was busy in Mexico; he could not conduct a
campaign in person. He got out some telling liter-'
ature, which swept through the State.1But it was a
Presidential year, and the major parties had their
way even with State offices. Next to the two major
parties, Baker carried practically every county in
Iowa. He never left Mexico during the entire cam­
paign, and only entered the race to help defeat Turn­
er, John Fletcher, Attorney General and his assistant
Gerald Blake. Blake had said he would never be
satisfied until he saw Baker behind the bars. All
were swept from office. Almost eight thousand
votes cast for him; Turner rejected; the Democrat,
Clyde Herring, in: it was a magnificent showing for
a “fugitive from ‘justice,’ ” to use the snide slogan
used against him. Then came the political double-
cross. The new governor, Clyde Herring and attorney
general O’Connor, who were assisted to office by
Baker’s newspaper, refused to correct the wrongs
of the rejected candidates.
Meanwhile, the Reverend J. Haefner of the Zion
Lutheran Church of Muscatine wrote correspond­
ents, describing Baker as a “ fraud ’’ whose hospital
was closed, with Baker a fugitive from justice in
Mexico. H. M. Bartlett,* a local attorney, president
of the Muscatine Chamber of Commerce, called the
hospital discredited, and Baker a fugitive from jus-
•Mr. Bartlett committed suicide at Muscatine, 1935.
1 Fearing Baker's campaign, his enemies had a warrant issued for his
arrest to discredit him. Iowa officials refused to have the warrant
served on Baker m Texas, to take him back to Iowa The warrant laid
over three years in Texas.
422 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
tice ip Mexico. Chiropractor.Palmer, who conducted
WOC, later combined with WHO as part of the radio
chained group, rejoiced at Baker’s fall and addressed
a meeting at Muscatine and talked over WOC
against Baker who for years had supported his cause.
Baker had the backing of the farmers of Iowa; he
had offered to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, on
August 18, 1933, THE BAKER PLAN OF AGRI­
CULTURAL RELIEF, which would have solved the
farm problem.
Baker’s espousal of the farmer’s cause is in line
with his whole life’s activities. In addition, he
desires to see the large farming class placed upon a
profitable basis, so that the farmer will receive a fair
income for his work, which every worker is entitled
to; and he knows that when the farmer flourishes,
we all flourish. Baker had sought to limit member­
ship ip his United Farm Federation of America to
actual farmers; he protested against being named
national secretary. But, as the originator of the
Baker plan, they felt he was entitled to this, and
knew that no one could better guide them through the
period of organization. Unfortunately, Baker’s
absence iif Mexico has necessarily militated against
his ability to devote as much of his time as he wished
to the UFFA’s work. But his pro-farmer stand is
so well known, that the capitalistic groups opposing
the farmer, tremble at the prospect of Baker’s ever
returning to the United States, to go aggressively
into this work.*
He sides with the actual farmer in all of his strug­
gles. Naturally, he is not in favor of the present
• Mr. Baker returned to the U S in ’35, and to Iowa in June, 1935. He
entered race for U. S. Senator from Iowa in 1-936.
T h e A m e r ic a n M e d ic a l A s s o c ia t io n o n T r ia l 423
administration, in its policy of limiting crop pro­
duction. What is wrong is insufficient distribution,
in the consumer’s eyes ; and the gouges of the middle­
men, in the case of the farmer. The farmers are
organized today in bickering groups; and of course
the opposition forces do everything possible to keep
them so divided. “A house divided against itself. . . ”
Baker is at work uniting the house. Sooner or later
the effort will succeed. He advocates that the
farmer’s ills cannot be cured by the destruction of
farm products and that cost of production plus a
profit is the only way out. That production cost with
profit will never materialize until the farmers organ­
ize one farm association, for farmers only and dis­
continue all others.
C H A P T E R X I X
BUILDING XENT IN MEXICO
Naturally, the efforts of Baker’s enemies in the
United States did not cease, when he crossed the Rio
Grande. They made their influence follow him, as
often, as subtly, as insidiously, as they could. His
Mexican corporation, the Compania Industrial
Universal, S. A. of Mexico, imported two of his most
efficient secretaries from his Muscatine office, to
handle the importations through the custom house.
Both possessed the official credentials permitting
them to work in Mexico; they had come with the
highest recommendations, one to be bookkeeper and
secretary to the XENT corporation, the other to be
assistant secretary. A sudden notice came to Baker,
ordering him to remove both of these young women
from Mexico. Since they were the most indispens­
able of Baker’s employees, he asked that they be
given a hearing, and the privilege of answering any
charge against them. The charge was that they
were practicing medicine in Mexico, or intended to
practice it! The Mexican Health Department, whose
officials no doubt are members of the Mexican Medi­
cal Association, had recommended to the Mexican
Immigration Department that they be deported-. The
girls knew nothing of medicine, had never practiced
it, never intended to. Then came Mexican justice.
The Immigration Department did not deport them
when facts were presented, but demanded an ad­
ditional 500 peso bond as a guarantee that they
would not practice medicine in any of its aspects.
424
B u il d in g XENT in M e x ic o 425
Obviously more of the trouble-making machinations
of some arm of the A. M. A., or some similar
inimical force. Their deportation would seriously
cripple Baker’s efficient handling of the multi­
plying details connected with the opening of
XENT. If they had been deported, Baker would
have been forced to move his main office into Texas.
Silly little annoyances: but enough of them mount up.
For years, Baker has had trouble with the United
States Postoffice Department, connected somehow
with the fight the privileged class interests have
waged against him; for the long tentacles of these
organizations stretch into every branch of the
national, state, and local governments. Baker has
often used decoy letters to trap snooping postoffice
inspectors, on the trail of some letter or mailed print­
ed matter which they could claim misrepresented the
facts of Baker’s cancer cure, and on which they could
base a prosecution for using the mails to defraud.
An incident of this kind occurred while Baker was in
Mexico. A man came to Baker’s warehouse in
Laredo, Texas, representing that he was a Mr. Brown
of the Texas State Health Department. He inter­
viewed Baker’s secretary here, demanding to know
what was in a package mailed from Baker’s main
office at Muscatine, in March, and addressed to him
in Laredo. Baker at once took the matter up with
the Postmaster General in Washington, asking what
right the Postal Department had to give information
about his private mail to any State health depart­
ment. They answered that they had no right, ex­
cept to give information to the Food and Drug
Department, for its own personal information; and
that the Food and Drug Department had no right
426 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
to convey this information to a State health depart­
ment. Medical control of the federal government,
however, is so great and obvious, that leakages like
this occur where ever it serves the interest of the
organized medical group to wish them. In the past
few months Baker has detected many letters which
were opened by snoopers and now uses a locked
envelope for his important mail which cannot be
opened without detection.
It is obvious that this doctor-controlled govern­
ment includes the Federal Radio Commission, and
that it could be called on in the effort to prevent or
close Baker’s radio station XEJNT at Nuevo Laredo.
They understand fully what a threat to their con­
tinued monopoly of the air his powerful station would
be: as menacing a threat as it would be to the medi­
cal octopus. The regular stations, the press, are
silent regarding such stories as the A. M. A. achieve­
ment, on discovering a fever they could not locate
in a United States Senator’s wife. Since she had a
parrot in the house as her pet, solemnly they dubbed
this fever “parrot fever,” and let her die of it,
while practically putting an embargo on the ship­
ment of parrots from Mexico into the United States.
Parrot fever is an achievement fit to go beside cat-
ointment and oil pf puppies boiled with earthworms,
with the Squibb horse-dung medicine and the poul­
ticing of a king with sheep ordure.
In July of 1933 the American Radio Delegation,
including Commissioner Sykes, sojourned down to
Mexico. Before their arrival, the blatant jingoistic
press announced that they were going down to close
Mexico’s border stations—including, of course,
XENT, the great Baker station, the most powerful
• B u il d in g XENT in M e x ic o 427
on the continent. Senator C. C. Dill of the State of
Washington had been the original mover for this
radio conference with Mexico. The first published
reason for the conference was to reallocate wave
channels and similar innocuous generalities. The
press was fed with stories concerning the serious
interference of Mexican stations with United States
stations; written from a biased and prejudiced view­
point, nothing was said about the more serious inter­
ference with Mexican stations of the high-powered
American stations, particularly of the chain station,
groups. Mexico has found out before that America
will offer her no forum to state her side of a case, to
air her grievances to the sober good common sense of
the American people. This was established in 1926,
when Baker’s K-TNT was the only mouthpiece in
America for the authorized remarks of Colonel M.
O. Ruiz Sandoval, who desired to present to the -
American people President Calles’ side of the con­
troversy then agitating the press of both countries.
Col. Sandoval was sent by President Calles of Mexico,
and gave a talk from KTNT that did much to counter­
act the falsehoods of the press against Mexico. This
favor to Mexico, brought upon Baker, the ill-will of
U. S. officials.
At the time of the Mexican radio conference, the
A. M. A. forces in this country had already won their
fight to inflict censorship of all health talks over any
radio station in Canada— an outrageous thing they
have so far been prevented from doing directly, in
the United States. There was a hope throbbing in
the breast of the subservient American radio group,
so docile to the least lifting of an eyebrow by organ­
ized doctordom, that a similar censorship could be
428 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
inflicted on Mexico. And so Judge Sykes, one of the
five complaisant radio commissioners, with an army
of twenty-two assistants, was delegated to represent
the United States government at this International
Radio Conference, to be held in Mexico City. On
his way south, the judge stopped at San Antonio,
Texas, and gave a talk before a Civic Club. The
San Antonio Express quotes him as saying that there
was a “chaos” in Mexican radio affairs, that must
be corrected, that any radio station selected wave
lengths or channels at will. The doctors of the U.
S. boasted that they would force Mexico to place
restrictions on medical broadcasts in Mexico. They
forced Canada to do it, why not Mexico?
The International Radio Conference opened in
Mexico City on July 10, 1933, and lasted, not the one
week originally planned, but one month. The
American press .headlined the conference daily.
But there was nothing in these stories about better
international arrangements being made for the
benefit of the international radio listeners. Here is
how one of the larger Philadelphia papers treated
the conference, in one of its news stories: and this
is typical of what the press of the whole country was
doing:
U. S. WILL DEMAND MEXICO DRIVE EXILED
CHARLATANS OUT OF BROADCASTING FIELD
Delegates to Radio Parley Hope to Squelch Such
Renegades as Goat-Gland Faker and
Cancer Quack
By DREW PEARSON and ROBERT S. ALLEN
WASHINGTON, July 8.
It won’t be found in the agenda, but one of the
B u il d in g XENT in M e x ic o 429
\
m ajor objectives of,the American delegation to
the North .Am erican Broadcasting Conference
in Mexico City is to put a quietus on renegade
radio stations that are cluttering the Mexican
side of the border.
One of the chief offenders is Dr. John R.
Brinkley, Kansas “goat gland” doctor. Ordered
off the air by the Federal Radio Commission'
several years ago, Brinkley built an 80,000-watt
station, the most powerful on the continent, at
Villa Acuna, directly across from Del Rio, Tex.
The station is equipped with special apparatus
so that its broadcast is directed into the U. S. A.
Recently, Brinkley obtained a 500,000-watt li­
cense from the Mexican Government, which will
make his station the most powerful in the world.
Quack Builds Station.
Another offender is Norman G. Baker, of
Muscatine, la., who was barred from the air by
the Radio Commission, also on the ground of
alleged medical quackery.
Baker advertised a cancer cure. He now is
building a 150,000-watt station at Nuevo Laredo,
opposite Laredo, Tex.
Shortly after Brinkley got his Mexican station
into operation protestswere lodged by American
broadcasters with the State Department. They
demanded official protests to the Mexican
Government.
Wires Are Pulled.
The Department was on the verge of acting
when suddenly it was called off. Prominent
Republicans objected to any interference with
Brinkley, and they took their complaints to
President Hoover.
Brinkley now has hired Charlie Curtis,
Hoover’s Vice President, to represent him in
Mexico City.
430 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
The Roosevelt Administration is determined
to put a stop to international wave pirating.
The American delegation goes to Mexico City
with secret instructions to sign no agreement
that does not eliminate such stations as Brink­
ley’s and Baker’s.
Judge Heads Delegation.
This job is in very competent hands. Head
of the delegation is Judge E. O. Sykes, chair­
man of the Radio Commission.
Originally it was intended to send only two
delegates to Mexico City. The conference then
was to include only the United States, Canada,
Newfoundland and Mexico. But suddenly it
was discovered that Mexico had stolen a march
by inviting all the other Central American Re­
publics.
Fearful that this was an attempt to “gang”
the three English-speaking representatives by a
Latin group, the U. S. A. increased its delega­
tion by adding Roy T. Davis, American Minister
to Panama, an expert in Central American
politics. It will be Davis’ job to “handle” the
delegations from these countries.
Note part of this inspired article: inspired, in the
sense that all Washington dispatches carried by
important newspapers emanate from Washington,
D. C., correspondents of the various papers, who
have much closer access to the President and the
White House family, the Cabinet, the heads of the
various departments, and the important Senators
and Congressmen, than is dreamed of. Here are the
important things to note: Baker is “another offender”
—offender meaning, as defined above, a “renegade
radio station . . . . cluttering the Mexican side of the
border.” Baker has been “barred from the air by
B u il d in g XENT in M e x ic o 431
the Radio Commission, also on the ground of alleged
medical quackery”—an egregious misstatement of
the hearing and the complaints culminating in the
closing of K-TNT, which was based primarily on his
station’s being called a ‘‘direct advertising station, ’’
or one which quoted prices; and because of his al­
leged attacks on established institutions and on
individuals. He was not taken off the air for medi­
cal quakery. Another press lie . . . . And now
note the most significant thing of all: “ The Ameri­
can delegation goes to Mexico City with secret in­
structions to sign no agreement that does not elimi­
nate such stations as . . . . Baker’s” Secret! A swell
secret, when it is thus badly spilled to 120,000,000
Americans, and in addition to the whole rest of the
world! If secret, how did the leak embodied in this
story occur? What punishment has been meted out
on the reporters who spilled it, the editors who
O.K.’d it, the publisher who published it? The rec­
ords are silent in this regard. This was an “ in­
spired” leak, of course.
And, unless these accredited correspondents, pre­
sumably still with access to White House and Capitol
secrets in Washington, are lying— and I for one am
sure they are not—then this constitutesTJnited States
government persecution of one of its own citizens,
while he is in a foreign land. If Baker’s K-TNT had
once offended, at least in the eyes of his enemies and
the servile radio commission, surely that gave the
government not the slightest moral or legal justifica­
tion for assuming that a station he had not yet
finished building, nor put on the air, was going to be
an offender! The precise logic is as if the govern­
ment itself, in the case of a man once tried and held
432 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
guilty of an offense such as disorderly conduct,
should demand of a foreign country that it prevent
this man’s conduct entirely in the future, since the
government was of opinion that a man who had once
been disorderly could never be anything else there­
after! Damned presumptuous, to say the least;
damnably unfair, and damning persecution, to add a
little more. Surely it was Mexico’s privilege to li­
cense Baker, if it wanted to; surely the United States
government, as represented by this radio commis­
sion delegation, hadn’t the faintest right in the world
to let out one yap or yelp about what Baker was
going to do, when he hadn’t even begun to do it!
In decency they might have waited until he did some­
thing, before lodging appropriate protest. Just a
bit premature, old zanies. Did Sykes and the rest
of the United States government crew think that (a)
they could read Baker’s mind, and know in advance
he was going to offend? and (b) that they owned
Mexico, and could tell her how to run her own busi­
ness? Did they forget entirely their ponderous
preachment that the purpose of legal punishment is
to correct and improve offenders, and should be
followed by legal conduct thereafter, so that Baker,
once punished, would presumably never offend
again? No, they are merely a bunch of tools of
gouging selfish wealthy interests in America, and—
forgetting the rights of the people, of Baker, of
Mexico, forgetting Americanism and decency and
fair play and even the Constitution and the laws of
this country, they went forth armed with “ secret
instructions’’ to get Baker, and throttle him before
he had ever had a chance to say a word. A1 Capone
B u il d in g XBNT in M e x ic o 433
would have had a higher standard of ethics than
this.
If President Roosevelt knew of this, he deserves
the same condemnation. It is to be hoped that he
did not dream of it; that this will open his eyes to
what is going on inside the government beneath him;
that he will at once institute an investigation, that
will bounce the servile tools of the gouging wealthy
interests, and cause an immediate return to law, to
decency, to Americanism, to fair play; and an im­
mediate return to Baker of all taken from him, in­
cluding the license of K-TNT so unfairly withdrawn
in June, 1.931.
Lest you think that that Philadelphia news story
was an isolated symptom, here is the story, two days
later, from the Rock Island Argus:
MEXICAN EDICT DOOMS
BORDER RADIO STATIONS
Surprise Move Ahead of Conference Spells Ruin
of Brinkley and Baker Ventures
BY ROBERT MACK
Washington, July 10.—What was to have
been prime issue at the North American radio
conference, which begins in Mexico City today,
has been settled by the Mexican government
through issuance of new radio regulations de­
signed automatically to wipe out all stations
along the border by so-called “renegade” Ameri­
can broadcasters.
In a surprise diplomatic move the Mexican
government announced that it had drafted new
regulations which will limit ownership of
Mexican stations to Mexican citizens. More-
434 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
over, all stations must use the Spanish language
except where government permission is given
to broadcast in other languages.
The restriction apparently spells the doom of
all stations along the border operated by Ameri­
cans with the sole purpose of serving listeners in
the United States. These stations have caused
serious interference with American and Canadi­
an stations through operation on or in between
their wave-length. The ruling means that the.
80.000- watt XER at Villa Acuna, across the
border from Del Rio, Texas, operated by Dr.
John R. Brinkley, deposed medico-broadcaster
of Kansas, will be wiped out, along with the
150.000- watt XENT of Norman Baker, former
Muscatine, Iowa, “cancer specialist" and broad­
caster, located at Nuevo Laredo, across from
Laredo, Texas.
The conference opening today was called to
work out a redistribution of wave-lengths avail­
able for broadcasting among the North and
Central American nations. It was expected
that the American delegation would demand the
extermination of these outlaw boarder stations
in Mexico as a condition precedent to any re­
alignment of wavelengths. Now that this im­
portant problem has been settled, the nations
involved may immediately settle down to the
working out of a recasting of a broadcasting of
a broadcast band.
Whatever the outcome of the conference, it
is expected that there will have to be a sweeping
reallocation of broadcasting stations in the
United States. This is not contemplated, however
until a complete new plan of station operation
from the technical standpoint, can be worked
out.
B u il d in g XEN T in M e x ic o 435
This time, it is a Mexican edict that dooms Baker:
the alleged prime issue at the conference “ has been
settled by the Mexican government through issuance
of new radio regulations, designed automatically to
wipe out all stations operated along the border by
so-called ‘renegade’ American broadcasters . . . .
New regulations which will limit ownership of Mexi­
can stations to Mexican citizens. Moreover, all
stations must use the Spanish language . . . . This
ruling means that . . . . the 150,000-watt XENT of
Norman Baker, former Muscatine, Iowa, ‘cancer
specialist’ and broadcaster, (will be wiped out.)”
We will see, we will see. The impetus for the con­
ference had come from Senator Dill, long touted as
an advocate of freedom of the air: the press stories
announcing this had coupled it with an intention to
prevent Baker’s XENT from being operated; the
Senator’s action, in this matter, is incredible, and
certainly earned the cordial and vociferous thanks
of the radio monopoly, the A. M. A., and the other
forces opposed to Baker’s independent-souled station.
For a month the Mexican delegation listened to
what the Americans had to say. No doubt enough
was said covering the matter referred to above in the
“ secret instructions.” And here was the outcome.
Mexico had not yet become a tool of the selfish Amer­
ican monopolies. The Chicago Tribune is quoted;
and there is no jubilation in the brief story:
RADIO PARLEY IN MEXICO FAILS
TO REACH ACCORD
MEXICO CITY, Aug. 10.—The Mexican govern­
ment tonight in a formal statement said that the
regional radio conference which adjourned at noon
after meeting here for one month, had been unable
436 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
to reach an accord in the matter of distribution of
broadcasting channels but that an understanding had
been reached in some minor matters relative to radio
control.
The statement said that the matter of allocation of
broadcasting channels, for which the conference was
called, could perhaps be discussed later. Agreement
was reached not to widen channels and to control
stations on their assigned wave lengths, it was said.
It is reported that the conference failed because
Mexico asked for six of the available 96 broadcasting
channels for border Mexican stations, several of which
have been barred from the air in the United States,
and the United States delegation balked at this.
Reread that last paragraph; “ It is reported that
the conference failed” because Mexico insisted on
giving proper channels to Baker and others it had
decided clearly entitled to these! “ and the United
States delegation balked at this.” Yes, there were
secret instructions, all right. The American delega­
tion did what it had been told to, and signed no
agreement. The attempt at persecution, by our
government, of one American citizen, Norman Baker,
had failed. Shame to everyone connected with the
illegal and outrageous attempt! And high praise
to the independent attitude and the splendid fair­
ness of Mexico, forced to fight against the swagger­
ing, bullying tactics of this great and greatly un­
just neighbor, whose past history has been stained
often enough with bloody and unfair attacks on its
southern neighbor.
An aftermath of this appeared in an inspired news
story, signed by Martin Codel, whose anti-Baker
B u il d in g XENT in M e x ic o 437
activities in the past have already been chronicled,
in the Washington, D. C., Sunday Star, ten days later,
or under date of August 20, 1933. We have space
for only a little of his chat :
RADIO WAVE WAR WITH MEXICO SEEN
U. S. Delegates Disappointed by Failure of
Conference Recently Held.
BY MARTIN CODEL
War on the radio wave lengths with Mexico
appears to lie ahead, as an almost inevitable
consequence of the complete failure of the
Mexico City wave-length parley to reach an
agreement regarding the division of the broad­
casting channels among the nations of North
America . . . . The Mexicans declined to consider
the elimination of border stations along the Rio
Grande, which are concentrating their broad­
casts, northward to serve the United States
audience. These stations are largely backed by
American capital, in several instances being used
by broadcasters who have been barred from the
wave lengths by the Federal Radio Commission
and the courts here.
Well, that ends another malodorous attempt—and,
this time, an openly unfair, un-American and illegal
attempt—to persecute Norman Baker. This time,
it is the American government itself that is openly
doing the persecuting. Mr. President, gentlemen of
his Cabinet, Senators and Congressmen, people of
America, will you lie supine beneath this new insult
to decency, law, and a man’s brave attempt to heal
the scourge of cancer; or will you demand an in­
vestigation of the interfiliated radio commission-A.
M. A.-radio chain group monopolies, and an ending
438 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
of their foul practices? Don’t worry, Baker wrote
the whole thing promptly to President Roosevelt.
The President ignored the matter by refusing
to give it his personal attention, merely acknowledg­
ing receipt of the letter through his secretary and
passing it along to the Department of State. The
very department that started the. persecution of
Baker, according to the Press. Is there no way to
stop these foul attacks, now participated in by the
government itself, against an American citizen
battling only to heal men from cancer, and to stop
the A. M. A.’s needless butchery of cancer patients?
Mexico, before the conference placed the medical
censor in their new radio law, and stands without
medical Freedom of the Radio as does Canada. Thus
the boast of the American Medical Association to
control the Mexican Radio department was fulfilled.
It is believed Mexico will be the first to eliminate it
when she awakens to this great injustice of depriving
her citizens of medical freedom. The U. S. doctors
now claim they will have a paid employe in the Radio
Department of Mexico.
C H A P T E R X X
NORMAN BAKER TODAY—AND TOMORROW
L e t ’s t r y to tu r n to p le a s a n te r m a tte rs . D o n ’t
th in k th e m a n h a s to sp en d a ll h is tim e fig h tin g th e
m o n o p o listic lic e a n d v e rm in th a t p la g u e o u r b od y
s o c ia l. H e h a s h is fu n , to o . . . H e ev en in v en ted th e
d esk h e sits a t. W h a t a d e s k ! I t ’s m o re lik e a w hole
office, o r e v e n a n office b u ild in g . T h e r e ’s no o th e r
d e sk lik e i t in th e w o rld . I t ’s h e x a g o n a l in sh ap e,
n in e fe e t in d ia m a te r , o f su a v e b la ck w aln u t. I t h a s
s ix m a jo r d iv isio n s, a n d a n e n tra n c e fo r th e stu rd y
little N a p o le o n to u se in g e ttin g to th e c e n tra l sw ivel
c h a ir. M e d ica l M a tte r s ; C a llia p h o n e ; M erch an d ise
S a le s ; A d v e r tis in g ; R e s e a r c h ; R a d io — th ese a re th e
s ix little w o rld s i t c o n ta in s . A t e a c h sid e o f th e d esk
is a d ic ta p h o n e , fo r d ic ta tin g co rresp o n d en ce. B e ­
tw een e a c h p a i r o f s e c tio n s is a sh elf to hold re fe re n ce
b o o k s, c a ta lo g s , a n d th e lik e. E a c h sectio n holds tw o
le tte r t r a y s : on e f o r in co m in g , on e f o r o u tg o in g m ail.
T h e re a re tw o le t t e r files o n o p p o sin g sid es of th e d esk ,
w ith tw o filin g d ra w e rs an d tw o in d e x d ra w e rs, to
h old B a k e r ’s p e rs o n a l re fe re n c e co rresp o n d en ce, p r o ­
p e rly d iv o rc e d fro m th e m a in files. T w o telep h on es, a
p u sh -b u tto n s y s te m k e e p in g h im in to u ch w ith each
d e p a rtm e n t o f h is m u ltifa rio u s a c tiv itie s , a globe of
th e w o rld , a m ic ro s c o p e , a la m p o v e r each sectio n —
a n d , sw in g in g s w iftly fro m on e to a n o th e r of his
in cre d ib le m u ltip lic ity o f in te re sts, th e stu rd y little
N a p o le o n h im se lf. I ’m file d so m ew h ere in i t ; an d
y o u m a y b e— an d I h o p e a m o n g th e frien d s, an d n o t
a m o n g th e p e rn icio u s-e n e m ie s. Y o u d o n 't sit at th is
d esk , you s it in it. A r tis tic a lly lovely, e sth e tica lly
439
Norman
Baker
“in”
his
desk.
The
only
one
of
its
kind.
Invented
and
designed
by
him.
His
many
business
activities
required
every
convenience
to
be
at
his
fingertips.
The
desk
has
six
sides,
each
devoted
to
a
particular
business.
He
merely
turns
on
his
swivel
chair
to
any
side.
N o r m a n B a k e r T o d a y — a n d T o m o r r o w 441
satisfactory, infinitely efficient, a work of genius . ,.
The South Texas Citizen, of Laredo, on September
23rd, 1933, carried a jubilant story of the im­
minent opening of the new border station, XENT.
Transmitting tubes standing nearly three feet high,
costing thousands of dollars; yet with a guaranteed
life of only 1,000 hours; one hundred and twenty-
five gallons of water circulating around them, to keep
them cool; every inch of wire in the plant insulated,
because of the radio frequency current throughout
the building; the 450 H. P. diesel engine, the first
unit of the engines, already in operation, directly
connected to a 300,000 watt generator; 75,000 watts
of power to be used from December 1st onward,
which will reach every part of the continent; twice
this much later, covering a radius of 2,500 miles
around Laredo; artists arrived and arriving; 250,000
pictorial booklets ready for distribution, to encourage
tourists to Mexico, with a special XENT Tourist
Office to take charge of these—all these, and more,
the article detailed. The XENT programs will be
like the K-TNT ones, homey, rather than highbrow:
the voice of the mellow Calliaphone, The Bells of St.
Mary, Beautiful Isle of Somewhere, O Sole Mio, a
Hawaiian medley, Mother Machree, a medley of old
songs,Negro spirituals, stirringmarches,MyMother's
Bible . . . . the Kiddie’s hour, the recipes, the stir­
ring talks by Baker, impressive talks by others, the
Calliaphone, taps___ No advertising of fake stocks
and bonds, or fake or shoddy material of any kind;
nothing against the interest of the people, and
enough against their enemies. That’s what’s coming.
That’s what’s here, as I write.
Baker believes profoundly in international peace;
442 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
he is opposed to wars of capitalistic nations against
each other, which is another way of spelling the
slow group suicide of our white culture: race suicide
in a wholesale terrible way. XENT will be a tre­
mendous force, when moments of strain come, in favor
of peace with Mexico, and against war. The Mexi­
can side can always be heard over it, as well as the
American.
~The total cost of the station, with the full 150,000
watts of power on the air, will be about a quarter of
a million dollars. As usual, Baker had the trans­
mitter made in his own Muscatine shop; it would have
cost much more to buy it already made. Baker land­
ed in Mexico without cash enough to build the first
unit of his buildings. He didn’t wait: he went right
to work digging the foundation, and then the first
building. He had to borrow. Not from the bank­
ers: they had nothing to lend a man who was a
tribune of the people. He mortgaged personal
property, he let the humble listeners to K-TNT and
readers of the Free Press lend him amounts as small
as ten dollars apiece. They'll get it back, and the
interest, and a bonus on the profits of the station:
and we’ll all get a bonus in the way of the benefits
it achieves for all of us. The bankers of Mexico
stood by to aid him; so far, he has not even needed to
call on them, much as he appreciated their fine spirit
of cooperation.
Nor are the forces of evil idle. The Tugwell Bill,
a new Food and Drug Bill is to be introduced into
the next Congress.* Assistant Secretary of Agri­
culture R. G. Tugwell has emitted an article plausibly
pleading for it. Much of what he says is true, about
* Was introduced in 1934 and still under consideration in 1936.
N o r m a n B a k e r T o d a y — a n d T o m o r r o w 443
iniquitous and lying advertising of foods and drugs.
But here is the joker:
An advertisement of a drug shall also be deemed
to be false if it includes . . . . (2) any represen­
tation, directly or by ambiguity or inference, con­
cerning the effect of such drug which is con­
trary to the general agreement of medical opin­
ion.
And further,
Any advertisement of a drug representing it
directly or by ambiguity or inference to have any
effect in the treatment of any of the following
diseases shall be deemed to be false:.. . cancer,
and thirty-five other diseases! "Contrary to the
general agreement of medical opinion.” that is, con­
trary to the expressed opinion of the A. M. A. But
the A. M. A. is practically self-admittedly a dictator­
ship, run by a small group, or by a single individual.
Its or his word, then, can damn any such drug: to
make it worse, the advertisement of any drug
offered “to have any effect” in the treatment of can­
cer and the other listed diseases is branded as a
false advertisement, and punishable, in advance.
Medical slavery can go no further. Medical freedom
receives a death blow, if this iniquitous bill becomes
a law. It is vicious and vile, in its inteiition and its
potential damage to all of us. We must see to it
that it does not become a law! This is the concern
of everyone of us, from the President, the Senators,
the Congressmen, down and up to the last one of us.
The bill is a thousand times worse than I have stated;
I have dealt with it only as it concerns Norman Bak­
er and fight to cure cancer. It will hobble and
cripple and mutilate and terminate medical freedom
444 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
in e v e ry d ire c tio n : it w ill m e a n m e d ica l s la v e ry f o r
all of u s. W e h a v e s ta te a n d n a tio n a l la w s t h a t c a n
ta k e c a re o f a n y o n e w h o m is re p re s e n ts g o o d s, a n d
th e re is no n eed o f th is A . M . A . sp o n so re d b ill. B y
w h a t k n o w ed g e c a n th e A . M . A . d o c to rs o f th e
P u re P o o d an d D ru g D e p a rtm e n t d e te rm in e if a
m ed icin e h a s a c u r a tiv e a ffe c t u p o n c a n c e r ? D o th e y
p ossess th e su m a n d s u b s ta n c e o f a ll m e d ic a l
k n ow led ge ?
T h e w o rld -w id e r e v o lt a g a in s t m e d ic a l d o m in a tio n
is co m m en cin g . I t h a s s ta r te d in E n g la n d . T w o
th o u san d d o c to rs h a v e re v o lte d fro m th e d o m in a n ce
o f th e B r itis h M e d ica l A s s o c ia tio n , a n d h a v e fo rm e d
th e N a tio n a l H e a lth L e a g u e , u n d e r th e p re s id e n c y
of S ir A u g u s tu s F itz G e o r g e , K . C. V . 0 . , son o f th e
la te D u k e o f C a m b rid g e , a n d a t on e tim e A . D . C .
to K in g E d w a r d w h en h e w a s P r in c e o f W a le s . T h e
fig h t is a g a in s t o rth o d o x m e d ic a l p r a c tic e , an d th e
w h ole g e rm th e o r y , a n d in f a v o r of r ig h t liv in g ,
h y g e n ic su rro u n d in g s , a n d r ig h t m e n ta l an d em o ­
tio n al a ttitu d e s : th e d o c to rs s a y th e y w ill p e r s is t in
it, n o m a tte r if it m e a n s fin a n cia l in ju ry to th e m ­
selves.
In A m e ric a , i t is w ell u n d e rs to o d t h a t th o u sa n d s
o f A .M .A . m e m b e rs a re m e m b e rs f o r p ro te c tio n o n ly ,
w ho re a liz e d t h a t th e ir p ro fe s s io n a l su cce ss, an d
even th e ir s e c u rin g m a lp r a c tic e in s u ra n c e , d ep en d
on th e ir jo in in g th e S ta te an d c o u n tv u n its o f th e
A . M . A . T h e re is a g ro w in g d is c o n te n t a m o n g th e m ,
a g ro w in g d isp o sitio n a m o n g e v en th e m o s t o u t­
stan d in g m em b ers o f th e p ro fe ssio n to b lu rt o u t. w ith
a p p a llin g e ffe c t, th e s te rility , d ry r o t, a n d m e d ic a l
b a n k ru p tcy of th e ir p r a c tic e s , b o th in th e c a s e o f
d ru gs an d o f s u rg e ry . I t is tim e f o r th e s e s p o ra d ic
u p flares to b e co m e g e n e r a l ; it is h ig h tim e f o r th e
N o r m a n B a k e r T o d a y — a n d T o m o r r o w 445
American doctors to do as their brothers across the
sea have done, and desert in a body from the iniqui­
tous parent organization, and form their own Ameri­
can Medical Alliance and end medical slavery and
bondage, in favor of medical freedom for all. This
step is inevitable: the only open question is whisn
it will take place, and who will be the ones courageous
enough to take the lead in this magnificent march
towards a healthy, happy civilization.
Now suppose Norman Baker were to formulate,
for you, his own conception of the value of allopathic
doctors, surgeons, and drugs: or suppose I were.
Would you agree with the following, which may or
may not be his or my opinion, or would you disagree
in any instance ? Why not make a check mark (\/)
before each of these you agree with, and a dash
( — ) before each you disagree with, and total up
the results? And, as a whole, after reading the
following statements, would you think the person or
persons who thought and said these things were
sane or insane? Balanced or unbalanced? Here
are the steps in this evaluation of allopathic doctors,
their drugs, and surgeons:
1. Cures are beyond doctors.
2. All medicines are poisons.
3. Medicine is a science of guessing.
4. Drugs do not cure disease. The particular .
symptoms may be quieted by a narcotic or some other
drug, but the disease itself remains.
5. Medicine is a shapeless collection of inco­
herent ideas.
6. The amount of death and disaster in the world
would be less than it is now, if all disease were left
to itself.
446 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
7. There is not a single disease for which the
doctors have an absolute specific.
8. There are 107 single, uncombined, different
and confessed poisons in daily use by the allopathic
school of medicine.
9. The fact that a doctor has to make a living
out of disease, handicaps his eagerness to diminish
and prevent disease in his vicinity.
10. If medicine is to. remain a profession, this
competition for money must cease.
11. When the people see medical men persistently
spending millions of dollars of public funds in health
boards in attempts to establish a medical oligarchy,
it is only natural for them to conclude to thoroughly
investigate whether or not doctors give value re­
ceived for their money.
12. Thousands of desperate cases of chronic
diseases could be easily cured if someone had sense
enough to tell the poor victims to quit taking medi­
cine.
13. No one can entirely recover health while
taking medicine.
14. All the allopathic doctors’ curative agents
are poisons, for they diminish the patient’s vitality.
15. The allopathic doctors are productive of
vastly more evil than good.
16. The whole germ proposition is a silly sense­
less fable. The average medical mind is so dwarfed
by superstitions that it cannot comprehend a simple
law of nature anyhow. Doctors of today are not
allowed to think for themselves—they must follow
the medical priests and swallow the A. M. A. dope
or they will be branded heretics and be burned at the
stake of medical ethics.
Norman B aker Today— and T omorrow 447
17. It is impossible to harmonize allopathic
medicine and common sense. Drugs do not cure
diseases. ,
18. Medicine is not a science.
19. 99 out of every 100 medical facts are medical
lies. Medical doctrines are for the most part stark
staring nonsense.
20. There is no potency in the doctor, his medi­
cine or treatment; but rather in the forces that re­
side in the patient.
21. Medicine is a colossal system of self-decep­
tion.
22. There is not a single medicine in the world
that does not carry harm in its molecules. Medicine
is more dangerous than dynamite.
23. Drugs, miscalled medicines, are absolutely
injurious to the patients.
24. Were there no doctors on the face of the
earth, there would be less sickness and less death
from sickness than now prevail.
25. The doctor does more mischief than the
disease.
26. Medicines are instruments of death in
physicians’ hands. The public would be infinitely
better off without professed drug physicians.
27. Improper medication is the cause of the
chronic sufferers of today.
28. The medical profession are endeavoring to
establish State medicine. State medicine is no more
to be tolerated by the people than is State religion.
29. Our school children are being used as revenue
producers by political doctors and political educa­
tors.
30. Back of disease lies a cause; and the cause
448 D o c t o r s , D y n a m i t e r s a n d G u n m e n
no drug can reach. Doctors know that there is a
cause of disease, but they do not work on it.
31. A drug is never a help in disease.
32. Allopathic doctors know little or nothing of
the real action of drugs.
33. As we place more confidence in nature and
less in the preparations of the pharmacist, deaths
diminish.
34. Drugs cure one disease by producing an­
other.
35. A sufferer would be safer without a doctor
than with one.
36. The first duty of a physician is to instruct the
people in the laws of health, and thus prevent
disease. The tendency has even been toward a con­
spiracy of mystery, humbug and silence. The rank
and file of orthodox doctors are like sheep led astray.
Doctors have bitterly opposed every real and scien­
tific help in the art of medicine, and filled the world
with incurable invalids.
37. Doctors study false facts and false theories.
They have multiplied diseases, and increased deaths.
38. The practice of medicine is a farce. Ninety
per cent of allopathic doctors are quacks.
39. An eye specialist destroyed the sight of a
basketful of eyes, before he learned to operate suc­
cessfully for cataract.
40. Operations for appendicitis are unnecessary.
I went back over this, and took this test myself.
I agreed with only slightly more than half of these
platform planks. I had my wife take the same test.'
She agreed with 58% of the planks, not with the
rest. She said that the person or persons who be­
lieved in some of these must be a little queer. What
N o r m a n B a k e r T o d a y — a n d T o m o r r o w 449
do you think? If you have not already done so,
go back and check those you agree with, and, with
a dash, those you don’t Now how does the
score run? And do you think the person or persons
who believe these'things are sane or insane, balanced
or unbalanced?
They are not my opinions. Let’s get rid of that.
They are not Norman Baker’s.
They are not the opinions of any layman or lay­
men, or of any unorthodox independent doctor or
doctors. At least, not in the form I give them.
They are the opinions of the following orthodox
allopathic doctors, who have all published them:
(1) Dr. J. H. Tilden. (2) Dr. Joseph M. Smith, of
New York City. (3) Dr. Abercrombie, F. R. C. P.,
Edinburgh. (4) Dr. T. R. Allison, L. R. C. P., London,
England. (5) Dr. J. D. Bacon, of Illinois. (6) Dr. J.
Bigelow. (7) Dr. Wm. A. Brady, Attica, Ind. (8)
Dr. Broady. (9) and (10), Dr. Richard Cabot, Chief
of the Medical Staff of the Massachusetts General
Hospital. (11) Dr. Alex K. Calhoun. (12) and (13)
Dr. C. S. Carr. (14) Dr. Alonzo Clark, of the New
York College of Physicians and Surgeons. (15) Dr.
Coggswell, of Boston. (16) Dr. C. S. Duvall.. (17)
Dr. L. M. Edwards, of Omaha. (18) Dr. R. C. Flower.
(19) Professor Gregory, M. D., of Edinburgh. (20)
Dr. A. W. Herr, of Cleveland. (21) Dr. Oliver Wen­
dell Holmes. (22) Dr. J. N. Hurty, of the Indiana
State Board of Health. (23) Dr. Janison, of Edin­
burgh. (24) Dr. J. Johnson F. R. S., of London,
England. (25) Dr. A. B. Hender, of Davenport, Iowa.
(26) Dr. E. Kimball, of New Hampshire. (27) Dr.
U. R. Lyle, of Logansport, Ind. (28) and (29) Dr.
N. A. McQuestion, of Mansfield, Ohio. (30) Dr. S.
450 Doctors, Dynamiters and Gunmen
Weir Mitchell. (31) Dr. Noyes. (32) Professor Osier,
M. D. (33) Professor Parker, M. D., of New York
City. (34) Professor Martin Payne, M. D. (35) Dr.
Ramage. (36) Dr. Alex M. Ross, F. R. S., England.
(37) Dr. Benjamin Rush. (38) Dr. Schweninger,
physician to Prince Bismark. (39) Dr. Vene Arm­
strong. (40) Dr. J. D. Bacon, as in No. 5. They are
40 out of 104 of the orthodox medicos cited in The
Golden Age, in a symposium on medicine. They
have gone much further than Norman Baker ever
went, in this damning self-indictment.
The life of Norman Baker, from this point, can
only be marked, Continued In Our Next. For I
have brought the thrilling story down to today.*
He has opened, he is running XENT in Mexico, he is
waiting for the belated investigation of his cancer
cure by any responsible body, confident he can
establish for once and forever that he is the conquer­
or of this dreadful scourge; he is waiting to see how
far the A. M. A. can influence the Mexican Medical
Association, and how far they can influence the
Mexican government in depriving the citizens medical
liberty by their control of the Mexican Radio. The
hospitals are functioning in Muscatine, Iowa, and
Laredo, Texas,1their fires a bit banked until he gets
his publicity back at work, but still curing the dread
disease, which all the king’s asses and men of the
A. M. A; C. M. A. and M. M. A. can not do; he is
hourly trusting for the beginning of an investigation
of the servile radio commission, which took away his
K-TNT license, and which has sought to persecute
him in Mexico. If I were to have the power to dictate
the future chapters of his life, I think I should head
them:
* Author refers “to date” as year 1933
* Baker Hospital Laredo, was closed Jan. 1935, and all patients removed
to Muscatine, Iowa, because of insufficient room In Laredo.
451
N o r m a n B a k e r T o d a y — a n d T o m o r r o w
/
Chapter X X III. License of K-TNT Restored;
Baker Operates the Two Greatest Stations in All
Radio History.
Chapter XXIV. Dissolution of the A. M. A., as a
Monopoly, after Government Investigation.
Chapter XXV. Dissolution of the Chain Radio
Monopoly, and Appointment of Impartial Federal'
Radio Commission.
Chapter XXVI. Selling of Aluminumware for
Kitchen Use Made a Federal Penitentiary Offense.
Poisonous “Purifying" of Water Forbidden Hereafter.
Chapter XXV II. Norman Baker Elected Presi­
dent of the United States, on Farmer-Labor Ticket.
Perhaps of the United States and Mexico. But per­
haps that is looking too far into the future. But Jim
the canary is whistling his heart out, right over the
immense hexagonal desk; and the sturdy little Napo­
leon is leaning over towards me earnestly. “ Now,
Alvin, the way this book ought to end is— ”
Chapter X X V III. Norman Baker Elected Presi­
dent of the United States. Perhaps of the United
States and Mexico. But perhaps that is looking too
far into the future. And what is happening, even
now, is interesting in the highest degree—and as
significant. ■
'
Meanwhile, Baker kept the Free Press alive, by
personally providing the necessary money to pay the
weekly pay roll and other publishing expenses, to­
talling from $100 to $300 per week. In the annual
stockholders’ meeting of January 8,1934, an attempt
was made to eliminate Norman Baker from the man­
agement of the paper. Baker was accused of taking
secret profits from the newspaper, in selling it1sup­
plies. One of Baker’s ex-lawyers, Herbert G. Thomp­
son, was boomed for the mayoralty of Muscatine.
He was defeated by a landslide of 2 to 1. The Mid-
452 Doctors, D ynamiters and Gunmen
West Progressive, w h ich h a d su cce e d e d th e Free
Press, an d p u b lish e d b y B a k e r ’s e n em ies, d ied w ith
T h o m p so n ’s d e fe a t. T h e r o u t of B a k e r ’s lo c a l en e­
m ies w a s co m p le te .
B a k e r h a d e s ta b lis h e d , b y th is tim e , a b ra n c h of
th e B a k e r H o s p ita l a t L a r e d o , T e x a s , o p e ra te d su c­
c e ssfu lly b y a T e x a s p h y s ic ia n w ith a m e m o ra b le
lis t of p u b lic c u re s . B a k e r a sk e d G o v e rn o r F e r g u s o n
of T e x a s to g iv e h is h o s p ita l a p u b lic t e s t ; th is re ­
q u est w a s ig n o re d . E f f o r ts to clo se X E N T co n tin u e d ,
b u t a ll o f th e m h a v e fa ile d .
B a k e r le ft in M a rc h , 1'932, fo r M e x ico . S ix w eek s
la te r, th e w a r r a n ts r e f e r r e d to a lr e a d y w e re issu ed
fo r h is a r r e s t, a n d th e G o v e rn o r o f T e x a s w a s re ­
q u ested b y th e G o v e rn o r of Io w a to e x tr a d ite h im .
B a k e r h ad p ro m ise d M e x ic o to fin ish th e s ta tio n ,
X E N T ; an d h e s ta y e d a c ro s s th e b o rd e r u n til it w as
finished. T h en h e n o tified th e T e x a s officials in L a r e ­
do th a t he w a s g o in g to a p p e a r on A m e ric a n soil
a g a in , an d co u ld b e a r r e s te d . W h e n th e T e x a s R a n g ­
e rs w ire d th is to th e S h e riff o f M u sca tin e C o u n ty , a
Avire ca m e b a ck th a t I oavu d id n o t h a v e th e fu n d s to
b rin g B a k e r b a c k . A n d so, on J u l y , 1 9 3 5 , N o rm a n
B a k e r p a id h is ow n Avay to Io w a , to f a c e such
fig h t as h is p a n ic k y e n em ies s till h ad in th e m . H e
w as a rre s te d an d su b je c te d to a p re lim in a ry h e a rin g
b efo re J . C. C o s te r, J u s t i c e o f th e P e a c e , an d b ou n d
o v e r to th e G ra n d J u r y w h ic h la t e r re tu rn e d tw o in ­
d ictm e n ts a g a in s t h im . T h e s e in d ic tm e n ts a re still
p en d in g in th e D is tr ic t C o u rt of M u s c a tin e C o u n ty .
A t th e sam e tim e a c ita tio n f o r co n te m p t o f th e S u ­
p re m e C o u rt w a s s e rv e d on h im a n d on D e ce m b e r 2,
1 9 35, th e h e a rin g on th e c o n te m p t c h a rg e s Avas o p en ­
ed b e fo re J u d g e J . E . P u r c e ll, a s R e fe re e , an d la ste d
five d a y s. J u d g e P u r c e ll r e p o rte d a fin d in g o f g u ilty
to th e S u p re m e C o u rt, w h e re th e ca se is still p e n d in g
Norman B aker T oday— and T omorrow 453
for final decision. This contempt case will cost both
the state and Mr. Baker thousand and thousands of
dollars. Thirty patients of the Baker Hospital testi­
fied as to their being cured at the institution of can­
cer, tumors, and hemorrhoids. The maximum penalty
is one day in jail and a fine of $50. Baker has an­
nounced his intention to carry the case to the U. S.
Supreme Court if necessary.
On July 14, 1935, when Baker returned to Iowa
after a three and a half year absence, 25,000 people
attended his meeting in Muscatine. On September
8, 1935, another public meeting was held in Musca­
tine to publicly prove 6 year cures of cancer by his
formulas. It was attended by a large crowd of
thrilled people. Many of the cancer patients who had
been treated during the big meeting on May 30,
1930, returned, and repeated their stories of cure.
The Baker Five-Six-Year-Test had been completed.
For the first time in the history of mankind, a group
of patients 'cured of cancer six and five years before
appeared to testify to the world at large of the
miraculous cures of the Baker Treatments. This
public proof now meets all requirements of the
medical profession who demanded five year cures
before any cancer treatment would be recognized.
Baker’s statement and their words were transcribed
electrically on large 16-inch transcription discs, as a
permanent record for posterity.
Baker at once requested Governor Herring of Iowa
to investigate this miraculous achievement. The
Governor asked for the names of the patients, prom­
ising to investigate. Baker furnished the names. The
Governor made no report and never advised Baker
of the investigation he promised. In ,any. case, the
cancer cures have NOW been proved before the
Supreme Court of Iowa, as well as the District Court
454 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
of Muscatine, and the Federal Court at Davenport.
The record is being completed.
In January, 1935, the Baker Hospital Number 2
was opened in Muscatine; and almost overnight
every bed was occupied. Both it and Hospital Num­
ber 1 are now filled, with new cures being recorded
every week. Subscription lists have been opened to
purchase a large hotel in the Middle "West, further
south, to be -transformed into a 1,000 room Baker
Hospital, founded by public donations, or enlarge the
Muscatine Hospitals. Each donor will have his name
on the bronze tablet in the building, as well as a con­
tract entitling him and members of his family' to
free medical treatment to the extent up to the
amount that each donates.
On January 6,1935, Dr. Potter, who had had a two
years’ lease of Baker Hospital, was refused a renew­
al of his lease, because of low percentage of cures
and lack of cooperation.
Among Baker’s other troubles with doctors was
his experience with a Dr. L. D. Conn of Texas, whose
expenses Baker paid to Muscatine to study the
Baker technique at the Hospital there so he could
open a southern branch and he unaccountably dis­
appeared, leaving a note under Baker’s door. One
cured patient, Mrs. Cromer, who is still under obli­
gation to the Baker Hospital for curing her of can­
cer, went to a Dr. Cantrell of Lone Tree, Iowa, who
gave injections to cure cancer. This Dr. Cantrell was
reported to state authorities for investigation by the
State Health Department. The cure in this case took
place at the Baker Hospital. Mrs. Cromer now an­
nounces she was cured by the treatment she recom­
mends to others, while the truth is, she was cured
at the Baker Hospital by Baker medicines.
And, as a melancholy foil to this story of Baker’s
Norman B aker T oday— and T omorrow 455
success in curing cancer, on February 15, 1936, Dr.
Francis Carter Wood, one of the leading A. M. A.
authorities on cancer, announced publicly, that 95 %
of hospital cancer cases were incurable; that the best
that could be achieved was a 20% salvage of cancer
patients. And this was merely for a limited group of
cases. This public confession of A. M. A. failures is
in astounding contrast to Baker’s proved success.
The Free Press had been wrecked. On November
8,1935, The News of Muscatine, Iowa, a weekly, made
its first appearance, published, edited and managed
by Harry L. Fisher. It carried Norman Baker’s
writings, and was clearly his mouthpiece—to be en­
thusiastically welcomed by his thousands of Iowa
admirers. It is fighting the battle of the people, as
all Baker mouthpieces do.
The Universal Advertising Agency, a trade name
for Thelma Yount, of Laredo, Texas, held the ex­
clusive right to American advertising over XENT.
It applied for permission to erect a radio studio in
Laredo, Texas, with remote control to Mexican sta­
tions. Baker represented her in Washington; and
threw a bombshell into the Federal Badio Commis­
sion, by showing them their own letter dated March
6th, stating that her trial would be March 26th, and
that they were going to refuse her a permit. This
is the first instance on record in which a decision
was announced twenty days before the trial. As had
so often happened, Baker had really been tried with­
out permitting him to be heard, instead of Miss
Yount.
A plot to wreck the transmitters of station XENT
was discovered in November, 1935, in time to pre­
vent total wreckage. One Wayne Miller, a sub-engi­
neer at station WHO in Iowa, who had charge of
the transmitter of XENT confessed that someone in
456 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
Iowa had instructed him to do the job; that he had secured
employment under Baker for this purpose. Miller was
forced to repair part of the damage. Baker’s trusted mus­
ical director at XENT, Marvin Lucke, was also implicated
in the plot; Baker’s engineer stated that Lucke led the
officers to the home of a Dr. Cook in Lardo, where the local
plotting had taken place. Dr. Cook’s activities are now
under investigation. He is a member of the medical asso­
ciation. He, Dr. Crowe, and Dr. Potter are three who have
used every effort, however unethical, to wreck the glorious
work that Norman Baker is doing for humanity. Dr. Potter
swung to the state and testified against Baker in the recent
indictment case.
The station is in perfect order again. On February 2nd,
1936, it was used by the Mexican government for a pro­
gram from 7 to 9 P. M., especially dedicated to the Unied
States. Ambassador Daniels spoke at length on this program.
Meanwhile, Norman Baker is as active as ever, in all
good causes. He has been urged by countless friends to make
thg race this year for Senator from Iowa. Both parties are
seeking to have his name on their ballots. These friends
point not that his magnificent BAKER PLAN FOR UN­
EMPLOYMENT AND AGRICULTURAL R ELIEF is a
platform such as no candidate for public office in America
ever had. This would stop the dole; and in the end provide,
by self-sustaining work, more than 12,000 miles of trans­
continental paved 80-foot highways, two from Maine and
the Eastern seaboard ot the Pacific coast, four from north
to south. These would be paid for by currency issue coined
by the government, thus eliminating interest and taxation.
If Iowa is wise, it will force Baker to run; and if elected, he
will probably dominate the next sessions of Congress. If he
runs, you can be sure that he will awaken Iowa and the
Middle West in a way to make Huey Long’s campaign in
Louisiana seem like a pink tea. Baker holds the non-stop
record for speech-making in the United States, and his one-
man fillibusters against legisltaion inimical to the public
interest may whip a recalcitrant Congress into line, and
make them for the first time really represent the interests
of the people.
CHAPTER X X I
SOUNDING OFF
I started out by promising that this would be a live
book, and not a dead one. It made itself alive; all
that I had to do, was to refrain from killing it—which
I couldn’t have done anyhow, for you can’t kill an
explosion of trinitrotuolene, or T. N. T. But there
is something about live things, including live books,
that I’ve kept up my sleeve until this point: and that
is, that life is fertile, and not sterile; that life produces
action, and not inertia or inactivity. This book is
alive: life is contagious. You’ve read it: it won’t
die, within you. You won’t let'it die, within you.
You’ll let your mind go back and sort out the prin­
cipal things in it, the things that are still unfinished:
and, like a wire tingling with a powerful electric
current, you’ll start to finish them.
Mexico is, by right, a great, independent-souled
country. Foul propaganda has told us it is a land
of rowdy bandits. It is a land of historical and
natural beauty, of graciousness and courtesy, of
justice. We have meddled too often and too poison-,
ously in its affairs, in our collective greed, for all to
be well south of the Rio Grande. Our meddling
organized doctors have found a few of their skunkine
kind down there, so that the 1933 regulations of
Mexican radio now contain, on page 25,
79. The propaganda of medical products must
have only the character of commercial adver­
tising, and will be subject to the regulations that
the Department of Health may dictate.
457
458 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
80. Lectures, propaganda, etc., of a medical or
hygenic character, can only be broadcasted with
express authorization of the Department of
Health.
So long as the Department of Health stands for
health, and not for greed, Baker is safe. But this is
the lever that may be used against him, because
organized medics influence the Mexican government
the same as in the U. S. and Canada; in fact all
countries. It goes beyond our own radio bill, which
still forbids direct censorship, no matter how hellishly
powerful your indirect censorship is. Yet our organ­
ized belly-cutting throat-cutting medicos, in their new
“Food and Drug Bill,” have gone further: an adver­
tisement of a drug shall be held to be false if it in­
cludes any representation, even by implication, “con­
cerning the effect of such drug which is contrary to
the general agreement of medical opinionthat is,
contrary to the lying A. M. A. propaganda; and any
advertisement of a drug, claiming that it will “have
any effect on cancer, and the other named diseases, is
held to be false, even if it be 100% true. This bill must
be defeated, at all costs; or infinite suffering and
death will result from it, and nothing but a bloody
revolution can throw the foul-souled medicos out of
the seats of the mighty. Mexico is sound, unless our
organized medical racketeers and aluminum rack­
eteers and radio racketeers can dominate it. So far,
Mexico has not turned them the cold shoulder.
The fight is not yet over. Baker is there to offer to '
Mexico his magnificent station, to permit the truth
about Mexico to be broadcast; and this will be a
potent bar to unnecessary and outrageous capitalism-
engendered wars between the two countries.
S ounding Of f 459
These are the facts in the case of Norman Baker.
What must we do, stirred alive by these revelations,
more sensational than any yet contained in any book
ever published ?
I. Demand a government investigation of the foul
American Medical Association, until it is killed. End
its dominance of State, of county, of municipal medi­
cine. Bring in medical freedom. Waken the
American doctors to revolt, as their British cousins
have already done against the British Medical As­
sociation, and form an independent American Medi­
cal Alliance, standing for medical freedom, with
free rights to all schools of medical thought. End
the Simmons-Fishbein racket, and the racket of their
small selfish oligarchy, and restore medical freedom
to America. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Cab­
inet, Senators, Congressmen, State Legislators, every
independent American, you are called on to do this,
and at once! You are called on to investigate, and
act witheringly, against these enemies of human
health, happiness, and life. End this effort at a
State medicine, and give suffering human beings a
chance to get well without organized medicine’s
quackery and drugging poisons. Medical freedom
is not a radical idea, except insofar as it is a return
to the doctrines of the founders of this government,
who gave us political and religious freedom, and
freedom of speech, but omitted to give us medicine
freedom. Our suffrage, our religion, our speech, are
free: for God’s sake, unite and free our health, our
happiness, our lives, from this hellish dominance of
the allopathic oligarchy! '
II. * Demand a government investigation of the
servile Federal Radio Commission. Here are some
I
460 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
of the facts, in this book. There are a universe of
others. End the control of the air by chain station
groups and their servile commissioners, who have the
effrontery to journey to Mexico City with “secret
instructions” to demand ruin to an American citizen
legally recognized by a foreign government. And,
incidentally, restore to K-TNT its withdrawn license,
that this belated justice may be done to Norman.
Baker, and his $750,000 and more of investment in
Muscatine may not be stolen outright by rascals in
high places.
III. Cease the persecution of Norman Baker’s
cancer cure, so long-continued, as this book estab­
lishes. Demand an immediate and impressive ex­
amination of his claims. If he is a quack, a faker,
jail him, end his hospital. If he is not, give belated
justice to him, extol him as worth a thousand Lind­
berghs, make him a national hero, an international
hero. Let the fame of his cancer cure and his Cancer
Hospital be world-wide. Let the scourge of cancer
be conquered. All he demands is an investigation.
That he should have had years ago. Make these
weak sisters, the ones in charge of our national medi­
cal department, the medical director of the U. S.
Health Department and Veterans Bureau, at once
give this investigation. Let it be given independently
by every government subsidiary. He stands ready
and over-anxious to prove all his claims. A tree is
known by its fruits: his fruits are health restored,
cancer conquered. He is entitled to this investiga­
tion. Without delay, let us have it!
IV. And here is no more. You now have the
facts, its your play now. Let your next move be
immediate by communicating your wishes to the
S ounding Of f 461
proper ones. The other things will flow out of the
fact that this book is alive, and Norman Baker is
alive, and the public causes he fights for are alive,
and conquering. The upsurge may well place him
on the governor’s seat of his home State, or among
the togaed Senators, or even higher in the national
government. . Leave that for the future to decide.
His only ambition is to serve men and to heal them.
So far, our records have sought to repeat the tragedy
ending on the Hill of the Skull. It is not too late to
correct this. When fifty thousand people were
called, by his own truth-telling and personal mag­
netism, in one day to come to his radio station and
watch them heal the sick, Ave do not need a cross, we
need only a crown.
I leave it to you, people of America, people of
Mexico, people of the world.
CHAPTER X X II
/
LATEST DEVELOPMENTS AGAINST BAKER
Just as this book is goingto press, further devel­
opments have come up that are of interest to the
readers, showing just another link in the ten years
of persecution and prosecution Mr. Baker has suf­
fered.
As reviewed in previous pages, Mr. Baker experi­
enced much opposition from his American enemies
working upon officials in Mexico, with an attempt to
close Radio Station XENT at Nuevo Laredo, Mexico,
which operates on 910 kilocycles, with programs
daily from 5:30 p. m. to 8:45 a. m. central time.
It appears that every time Mr. Baker enters a
political race someone brings out a warrant for his
arrest, which may be for the purpose of blackening
his reputation, discrediting his campaign, or occupy­
ing his time from the campaign.
During Roosevelt’s election, the Farmer Labor
Party influenced Mr. Baker to run for Governor of
Iowa, even though he was in Mexico. He consented
and the race was on, but Mr. Baker took no active
part and did not leave Mexico to enter into the cam­
paign in Iowa, for reason of the fact that he was in
the first stages of building Radio Station XENT in
Mexico.
Just about that time a warrant for his arrest was
brought out in Musatine, Iowa, as reviewed in previ­
ous pages. A local newspaper, the Muscatine Jour­
nal, and others, carried the story that Mr. Baker was
a fugitive from justice and that he had escaped to
462
L atest D evelopm ents Against B aker 463
Mexico; that, mind you, in view of the fact that he
had been in Mexico for many weeks before the war­
rant was brought out in Iowa.
There seems to be no question but what the war­
rant in Muscatine, some three years ago, was a
double-header for a purpose—that is, not only to dis­
credit politically, but to have the warrant go to
Governor Turner, then to Governor Sterling of Texas
to arrest Mr. Baker if he came across the border and
to keep him busy in court so that XENT could not be
constructed.
This latest charge is a Federal indictment, put
out by the Grand Jury at Laredo, Texas, accusing
Norman Baker, Mr. E. R. Rood and Mr. Roy Rich­
ardson for conspiring, maintaining, and operating a
reproduction machine for making electrical trans-
scription records and conveying them across the bor­
der to be used on the programs at Radio Station
XENT at Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.
No other government action seems to prove the
persecution of Mr. Baker more than this case be­
cause many Recording Studios make electrical tran­
scriptions that are shipped to Mexican stations and
used without permits.
Furthermore the action of the press proves the
concentrated action to destroy XENT or belittle Mr.
Baker for reasons that such press stories use only
Baker’s name in the headlines and only slightly
mention.the others concerned. Such headlines read:
“ Warrant for Baker’s arrest — Federal Indictment
for Baker, etc.”
Mr. Baker strongly denies any connection with
such an affair, that he has not made records and did
not conspire, and believes the influence of the entire
matter comes from the combination of the organized
464 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
medics, including Dr. Crowe, secretary of the Texas State
Medical Board of Dallas, Texas, and two radio inspectors
from the Federal Communications Department. It may be
well to assume that the hatred against Baker held by
members of the Federal Communications Commission may
have caused pressure to be brought on the matter, but only
time will bring out the facts.
Mr. Baker asserts that he will carry the case to the
United States Supreme Court, if necessary.
The government hunted and found most all of Mr. Bak­
er’s disgruntled and discharged employees of XENT to use
against him before the Federal Grand Jury. Among them
are Marven Lueke, former musical director discharged for
conniving with Dr. Cook and others to close XENT, Chas.
Stevens, radio engineer discharged for drunkenness, in­
competency and destruction of property.
In the meantime, at this writing, April 27, 1936, Mr.
Baker was busy with his Senatorial Campaign through
Iowa during Maj’- and June, 1936.
Mr. Baker gave Iowa one of the best campaigns the state
has ever had, traveling with a three car caravan all enameled
orchid and purple, with large posters on the billboards, and
literature all printed in the same color, plus the wearing
of orchid shirts and purple ties by Mr. Baker. He was de­
feated in the primary with five others.
The press treated his campaign with silence, while the
other candidates received good publicity. Mr. Baker also
carried his medical fight and the Baker Treatments for can­
cer cure to the public during his talks throughout the state.
Mr. Baker has been placed under $5,000.00 bond for the
Federal Indictment, while Mr. Richardson’s bond was re­
duced to $1000.00 for the same offense.
Harry L. Fisher, one of Mr. Baker’s attorneys for years,
was in the race with Mr. Baker, traveling with him through­
out the state, seeking the office of Attorney General of
Iowa, also on the Republican Ticket. His large vote sent the
nomination into convention. We now leave Mr. Baker with
his plan to form a Bull-Moose Progressive Party in Iowa.
CHAPTER X X III
UNCLE SAM AND BAKER
Many and varied were the events which happened
in the life of Norman Baker during the year 1937.
One was the happy and gratifying culmination of
one of his life’s dreams, but for the most part they
proved to be only the continuation of the persecu­
tion and prosecution he has endured ever since that
eventful and now historical announcement, in 1929,
that Cancer is Curable. So numerous were the af­
fairs that demanded the attention of Mr. Baker, that
no heed was given to politics. He had more im­
portant work to do. Some tragic beginnings and
happy endings, and all considered the year provided
some great forward strides in Mr. Baker’s fight in
the interests of humanity and resulted in victory
for him in many a skirmish with the enemy.
As mentioned in a previous chapter, the Federal
Grand Jury had returned a criminal indictment
against Norman Baker, E. R. Rood and Roy Rich­
ardson, charging them with violation of the Com­
munications Act of 1934. The decks were cleared
for action and on Monday, April 19, 1937, the trial
opened in the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Texas, Laredo Division,
with United States District Attorney, Douglas W.
McGregor, prosecuting the case with all the vicious
vigor and venom at his command.
' At the opening of court on the morning of April
21st, the anniversary of the Battle of San Jacinto,
465
466 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
the Hon. Judge T. M. Kennerly, took occasion to
voice an eulogy in memory of the day and sig­
nificantly mentioned that the grandfather of one of
the government counsel was in Sam Houston’s army
but not in the battle of San Jacinto. Even the laity
in attendance at the trial wondered if the court’s
remarks would have any effect upon the jury. Nor­
man Baker, “ a stranger in a strange land,” being
tried on a criminal charge in a Texas court, before
a Texas jury, to whom he was a stranger, and re­
marks by a Texas Judge commemorating the an­
niversary of a day particularly dear to the heart of
every native Texan, would seem to be sufficient ex­
cuse to cause considerable concern on the part of
Baker.
One by one former employees of radio station
XENT, vicious and disgruntled because of their dis­
charge—one because of drunkenness—took the wit­
ness stand to voice their venom and hatred, without
too much regard for the truth, against their former
benefactor. In fact as we shall see later several
were charged with perjury. One outstanding char­
acteristic of the trial was the spiteful and vicious
attitude of the District Attorney toward Mr. Baker’s
witnesses. In one particular instance he assumed
a discourteous and ungentlemanly demeanor toward
a dignified young lady witness until his conduct
became so unbearable that she refused to answer
further until properly addressed and appealed to
the Court, who rebuked McGregor for his rudeness.
The vicious attitude of the District Attorney was
so noticeable that the spectators received no little
satisfaction in the display of courage on the part of
the young lady and the Court’s rebuke of the offend­
ing District Attorney.
Uncle S am and B aker 467
A rule of practice in the Federal Courts of the
South requires that only one attorney may actively
engage in the examination of witnesses. Mr. Baker’s
attorneys were not conversant with this rule as it
is not general. They had prepared to divide the
trial work, one to make the direct examination, one
to cross-examine and others to handle the technical
phases of the case. This rule took Baker’s attor­
neys by surprise and proved a decided disadvantage
in that the attorney who was prepared to rigidly
cross-examine the vicious and disgruntled former
employees was forced to leave this examination to
the attorney wholly unprepared.
Verdict and Sentence
The jury was out only about two hours when the
bailiff was informed they were ready to report.
Court was convened and the jury filed into the jury
box and their verdict read:
We, the jury, find the defendant, Norman
Baker, Guilty on Count One, Guilty on Count
Two, Guilty on Count Three, Guilty on Count
Four, and Guilty on Count Five.
The verdict was the same as to the other two de­
fendants, E. R. Rood and Roy Richardson.
The three defendants were then presented before
the bar for sentence. Richardson was called first
and upon the recommendation of the District At­
torney, he was sentenced to serve one day in the
county jail; E. R. Rood was next called and was
sentenced to four months imprisonment in jail and
given a fine of Five Hundred Dollars; Mr. Baker
was saved to the last as a “ feature” maybe or pos­
sibly a dramatic climax.
Now the joy bells in the camp of Baker’s enemies
began to ring out their tidings of victory; at last
468 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
Baker was to go to jail; what difference by what
means, fair or foul, or for what crime, Baker to go
to jail. Oh! Joy supreme. How cunningly the
Fates had played into their hands we shall soon see.
Mr. Baker stepped to the bar bewildered, firm in
the knowledge he had committed no greater crime
than to aid humanity, relieve the sick and suffering,
help the weak and defend the cause of the common
people. The stern words of the Judge seemed to
come from afar off: “ Have you anything to say why
judgment and sentence of the Court should not be
pronounced upon you ?’’ Mr. Baker appeared dazed.
He was wholly unprepared for such a verdict, and
the enormity of what seemed to him a gross mis­
carriage of justice almost overwhelmed him. To
him the evidence conclusively showed that he was
not guilty of the things he was charged with. Just
then the stentorian tones of the District Attorney
burst forth: “ As for Baker, he owns everything.”
The Judge continued: “ no good cause being shown
why the judgment and sentence of the Court should
not be pronounced herein:
It is, therefore, the Judgment, Sentence and
Order of the Court that the defendant, Norman
Baker, be imprisoned in a jail in this District
for the term and period of Four (4) months,
and that he pay to the United States of America
a fine of Two Thousand ($2000.00) Dollars.
Judge Kennerly was already preparing to take a
train within a half hour for Beaumont where he was
to serve as substitute the next day. Baker’s attor­
neys, relying upon usual practice, hastened to draw
up an order for the continuation of the existing
bond until the necessary formalities could be com­
pleted for a new bond, and returned to the Judge
Unolk S am and B aker 469
requesting Ms approval. Judge Kennerly refused
to grant the order, refused leniency or considera­
tion, stood adamant and advised that nothing short
of the complete formalities necessary for the setting
and posting of the bond would.be acceptable. He
would be at Beaumont next day and they could see
him there. In the meantime—the Fates were work­
ing hand in hand with the enemies—NORMAN
BAKER WAS REMANDED TO THE CUSTODY
OF THE MARSHAL TO BE COMMITTED TO
JA IL PENDING THE MAKING OF HIS BOND.
Baker’s attorney’s feverishly prepared the papers
and set out for Beaumont, driving all night, they ar­
rived in Beaumont and immediately contacted
Judge Kennerly. He advised them as Beaumont
was not in his jurisdiction they would have to file
the application for bond at Houston; that it should
be done that day in order to get it on the calendar
for hearing next morning; that he would he in
Houston next day. Baker’s attorneys were not to
be discouraged. They wired the Clerk of the Court
at Houston that they were on the way and asked
him to wait for them. At four o’clock that after­
noon the necessary papers were on file and the hear­
ing upon the bond was set for the following day,
Saturday April 24th. It was not until about ten
o’clock Saturday night that Mr. Baker was re­
leased, and the prayers of his enemies had been
answered—Baker was in jail, yes, something over
two days.
Mr. Baker had never been in jail. His reputation
had been above reproach, but now it must forever
bear the stigma of having served that time in jail.
Government Witnesses Charged with Perjury
As a result of the reckless and apparently wanton
470 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
disregard of the truth displayed by some of the
government witnesses, Mr. Baker filed a complaint,
supported by numerous affidavits, with District At­
torney Douglas W. McGregor, charging MARVIN
LUCRE, CHARLES STEVENS AND EDWARD
REGALADO, with perjury. It is possible that Mr.
Baker did not realize that his complaint was a de­
mand upon McGregor to bring an indictment against
his star witnesses— the witnesses who without doubt
made possible the conviction of Mr. Baker—and
that is certainly asking a lot of any District Attor­
ney. In fact those things are very seldom, if ever
done, but had the situation been reversed what a
simple matter it would have been. Whether Mr.
McGregor was too busy or the charges too pertinent,
is not known, but Mr. Baker never received so much
as a reply. As some have said: “ I t ’s a hard job to
get the government to indict their own witnesses.”
The despicable, sneaking, underhand activities of
MARVIN LUCRE, as admitted by him while on the
witness stand were further augmented by his previ­
ous admission, during a conversation, that he had
surreptitiously taken several recordings from
XENT studio and given them to the government
authorities to be used as evidence in the trial of
Baker. Just why these recordings were not pro­
duced at the trial is not known, but as a result of his
admission charges of larceny were filed in the State
Court of Tamaulipus, at Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, and
his extradition requested. It is known that he was
arrested and detained in jail for several days at
Amarilla, Texas, which gave him opportunity to ap­
preciate Mr. Baker’s feelings. The final outcome is
not yet known. Just how MARVIN LUCRE, the son
U ncle S am and B aker 471
of a minister, and church organist could lose his self-
respect and stoop so low is hard to understand.
The law upon which the indictment was found
and for violation of which Mr. Baker was prose­
cuted reads as follows:
Section 325 (b) Communications Act of 1934
No person shall be permitted to locate, use, or
maintain a radio broadcast studio or other place
or apparatus from which or whereby sound
waves are converted into electrical energy, or
mechanical or physical reproduction of sound
waves produced, and caused to be transmitted
or delivered to a radio station in a foreign coun­
try for the purpose of being broadcast from any
radio station there having a power output of
sufficient intensity and/or being so located geo­
graphically that its emissions may be received
consistently in the United States, without first
obtaining a permit from the Commission upon
proper application therefor.
Mr. Baker appealed from the decision of the Dis­
trict Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Texas to the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit. This court re­
versed the judgment of the District Court in what is
reported to be one of the quickest decisions ever
reached by this Court. The opinion handed down
by the Circuit Court of Appeals is as follows:
472 D octors, D yn a m iters and Gunmen
IN THE
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 8452
NORMAN BAKER, et al.,
Appellants,
versus
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Appellee.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
(December 16, 1987)
Before FOSTER, SIBLEY and HUTCHESON
Circuit Judges.
SIBLEY, Circuit Judge: Norman Baker and
E. R. Rood were indicted and convicted for
conspiring to violate and for violating Section
325 (b) of the Communications Act ox 1934, 48
Stats, p. 1091. Only one of their contentions,
raised by demurrer and by motion for directed
verdict and by request to charge, needs to be
considered, to wit, that what they were doing
is not a violation of the statute properly con­
strued.
Baker was operating a radio broadcasting
station in Mexico, near the international boun­
dary, which could be heard over a great part
of the United States. In Laredo, Texas, he and
Rood had offices where and recording apparatus
Uncle S am and B aker 473
by which talks in English which they made
were recorded on discs resembling phonograph
records, which were physically sent into Mexico
to the station and there played so as to repro­
duce the speeches and to broadcast them over
the radio to be heard in the United States. They
They had no permit so to do.
Section 501 of the Act provides punishment
for anyone who wilfully and knowingly does
any act or thing prohibited by it or declared un­
lawful. Section 325 (b), italicized for present
emphasis, reads: “ No person shall be permitted
to locate, use or maintain a radio broadcast
studio or other place or apparatus from which
or whereby sound waves are converted into
electrical energy, or mechanical or physical re­
production of sound waves produced, and
caused to be transmitted or delivered to a radio
station in a foreign country for the purpose of
being broadcast from any radio station there
having a power output of sufficient intensity
and being so located geographically that its
emissions may be received consistently in the
United States, without first obtaining a permit
from the Commission upon proper application
therefor.”
We reject the contention that the words “ No
person shall be permitted” make the section
merely a direction to the Commission in issu­
ing permits, and not a prohibition laid on the
public. The full expression is “ No one shall be
permitted” to do the named things “ without a
permit from the Commission.” While tauto­
logical, perhaps, the meaning clearly is that no
person shall do those things without a permit.
What things are forbidden? A radio station
474 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
or other place from which, or apparatus where­
by, (first) sound waves are converted into elec­
trical energy, or (second) from which or where­
by mechanical or physical reproduction of sound
waves is produced, and, in either case, caused
to be transmitted or delivered to a radio station
located in a foreign country but effective in
the United States for the purpose of being
broadcast. There is no question here about the
foreign radio station being within the Act, nor
that material for broadcast was furnished it
from the United States. The contention is that
a physical phonograph record is not forbidden
to be made in the United States and transmitted
to Mexico for broadcast any more than a manu­
script would be.
The words of the statute “ sound waves are
converted into electrical energy” evidently re­
fer to transmission of speech or other sound to
the foreign radio station by radio, telephone or
loudspeaker apparatus. Sound waves are
audible vibrations of the air; and in the in­
stances stated they are not themselves trans­
mitted to the foreign station, but by using an
electrical sending apparatus they are converted
into electrical waves which are at destination
caught up by a receiving apparatus which pro­
duces sound waves for broadcasting like the
original ones—reproduces them. This was not
done by the appellants.
Did they in making and sending out what
we will call phonograph records of their
speeches maintain a place from which, or use
apparatus whereby, “ mechanical or physical
reproduction of sound waves was produced and
U ncle S am and B aker 475
caused to be transmitted?” We think not. In
the case of such record “ mechanical or physi­
cal” means, as distinguished from electrical,
are used within the meaning of the statute,
both to make the indentations which constitute
the record and to reproduce the sounds when
the record is “ played.” But again the “ sound
waves” mentioned in the statute are the aud­
ible movements of the air. They are produced
when the words are spoken which are caught
by the recording apparatus. They are repro­
duced when the record is used to make them
again, and not before. It is not the recording
apparatus, but that playing the record, that
makes the reproduction of the sound waves.
If these records had been played in Texas, a
reproduction of the sound waves would have
been produced in Texas, and if transmitted to'
Mexico for broadcast a case within the statute
would have been made. But the defendants
had no place and no apparatus in Texas for re­
producing the sound waves. They only re­
corded from there. It may be that what was
done was intended to be prohibited, but the
intention is not expressed with the clearness
that is required in a penal law. The law as
written does not prohibit the recordation of
sound waves in the United States and sending
the record to Mexico to have the sound waves
there reproduced and broadcast.
The judgment is accordingly reversed for fur­
ther consistent proceedings-
REVERSED
Oakley F. Dodd
Clerk of the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals
476 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
A true copy:
Teste:
(SEAL)
The government has made application for writ of
certiorari to the United States Supreme Court;
meaning the appeal of the case to the higher court,
and at this writing (February 28, 1938), the U. S.
Supreme Court gave a decision in Baker’s favor, by
refusing the writ of certiorari, thus the law as per
section 325 (b) is now void and anyone can make
recordings without a permit.
Whether or not Baker’s enemies are happy that
he served two days in jail and at a cost of thousands
of dollars defended his liberty, his character and his
reputation, is of course unknown, but it must have
given them little satisfaction in view of recent de­
velopments. It must be a source of gratification to
Baker to know that in spite of his few days im­
prisonment, in spite of the constant efforts of his
enemies, in spite of the co-operation they continu­
ally receive, his great humanitarian work continues
on and on; that through his efforts he has made
possible the curing of many cases of cancer and
tumor, both internal and external, after the world’s
greatest specialists have pronounced them incur­
able; that such cures are produced by the medicines
he perfected and placed in the hands of the coura­
geous doctors of the Baker Hospitals at Muscatine,
Iowa, Eureka Springs, Arkansas, and clinics in Mex­
ico and Australia.
But let us hasten on. There is greater work yet
"to be done. The greatest dream of Baker’s life is
to be fulfilled before the close of this momentous
year.
CHAPTER XXIV
SUES FOR MILLIONS—LIBEL
The year 1937 must have been considered, by writ­
ers, magazines, newspapers and other publicity
mongers, as an open season for libelous publications.
Haldeman-Julius, so-called publisher of Girard,
Kansas, on numerous occasions during the year,
recklessly and evidently wantonly dashed off li­
belous articles attacking Baker, the Baker Hospital
and the efficacy of the Baker Treatments for cancer
and tumor. He is now puzzling his fertile gray mat­
ter for defenses to two suits for libel, in the State
Court of Kansas, totaling over half million dollars,
for his brilliant( ?) editorial efforts, with more suits
to follow. The Regal Press, Inc., publishers of
Radio Guide magazine, permitted its editor, Curtis
Mitchel, to utilize an entire page to a libelous casti­
gation in which Mr. Baker was very prominently
mentioned in no complimentary terms. For this
masterpiece of editorial libel the Regal Press, Inc.,
is now answering a damage suit in the United States
District Court in Texas, for the sum of Three Hun­
dred Thousand Dollars.
The most audacious and gigantic attempt to tear
down the reputation of Baker, the Baker Treat­
ments and the Baker Hospitals, thus far was the
elaborate production of the libelous moving picture
monthly review known as the “ March of Time,”
“ Conquering Cancer” which was produced and dis­
tributed by Time Inc., RKO Pictures, Inc., and ex-
477
478 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
hibited in about ten thousand theatres throughout
the United States and foreign countries.
Let us go back to February, 1937, and attend the
picture show. The scene is almost any theatre,
nearly 11,000 of them; large or small, in practically
any city, town or village, anywhere in the United
States or some of the foreign countries. As we
reach our seats the orchestra is playing and then
upon the screen is flashed the “ March of Time,”
Vol. Ill, No. 6, there is a prelude: “ The Mormon
Church,” “ Vacations in Winter,” and then “ Con­
quering Cancer.” Norman Baker is branded as the
notorious quack who broadcasts nightly from a pow­
erful radio station in Mexico; a catalog of the Baker
Hospital at Muscatine, Iowa, is held up to view;
then a picture of Morris Fishbein, editor of the
American Medical Journal, (High-Priest of the or­
ganized medics) is posed as a little god of all things
medical; a picture of Mr. Baker is easily discernible;
and all the while a voice is screaming out at us the
insulting, damaging statements concerning Norman
Baker. As we leave the theatre we are wondering
how the intelligent officials of the producers could
have permitted the production and release of such
an obviously libelous picture to pass their censor.
Of course the influence of the American Medical As­
sociation might have had something to do with it.
As we contemplate the picture we find ourselves
wondering if the cures of cancer and tumor by the
Baker Treatments are becoming so well established,
if the reputation for cures of the sick and afflicted
at the Baker Hospitals are becoming so widely
known, that the organized medics are getting des­
perate. We wonder. I t ’s enough to wonder about
with the Woman’s Field Armies scattered in every
community preaching about Mr. Baker and advocat-
S u es for Million s — L ibel 479
ing operation, radium and x-ray instead of the
Baker medicines.
Baker’s attorneys have already filed their first
suit in the District Court at Davenport, Iowa,
against BEO Pictures, Inc., and numerous theatres
in Iowa and Illinois, asking One Million One Hun­
dred Thousand Dollars in damages, and one case in
Chicago for one half million. At this writing, Feb­
ruary 22, 1938, others are in preparation and will
soon be filed which will add more millions. It is
thought that when the entire series of suits, based
upon this showing of the “ March of Time,’’ are filed
it will prove to be the greatest accumulation of suits
ever filed in libel damage cases, as it will total many
millions of dollars in damages and involve theatres,
distributors and agencies in practically every state.
Enough of this. Let us go to Mr. Baker’s dream
castle; his life’s ambition realized.
CHAPTER XXV
THE CASTLE IN THE AIR
Baker’s life’s dream materialized; a dream come
true. For many years Mr. Baker had hoped for,
dreamed of and visioned a large imposing structure
of brick or stone, with all modern conveniences, situ­
ated in one of nature’s beauty spots, away from the
noise, grime and contamination of the city, in a
cheerful and congenial atmosphere, where nature’s
pure, sparkling, unpolluted water could be had in
abundance; where the sick and afflicted, the suffer­
ers from cancer and tumor and the many other hu­
man ailments could come for rest and quiet and be
cured of their diseases. He traveled thousands of
miles searching, constantly searching for such a
place as would fulfill his dream. No such place
seemed to exist, and then one day he heard of a
massive stone mansion nestling in the Ozarks. He
hastened to investigate and when he gazed upon
that beautiful stone structure atop the Ozarks,
nearly 2,000 feet above the sea, surrounded by na­
ture’s grandeur, he cried, EUREKA! (I have found
it) my dream castle. There amid the Ozarks at
Eureka Springs, Arkansas, he saw the fulfillment
of his life’s dream; it was all he had ever longed
or hoped for—this would be the new home of the
Baker Hospital.
Fifty-one years ago the doors of the now histori­
cal Crescent Hotel, were thrown open to the public.
It was constructed entirely of native stone and re­
quired nearly two years in building, at a cost of
over a quarter of a million dollars. The wonderful
480
T h e Castle in th e Air 481
climate, the pure sparkling mineral water that
flowed from the many springs in the valleys and the
beautiful mountain scenery had already made
Eureka Springs famous as a vacation and health
resort and the Frisco Railway Company built this
elaborate and spacious stone mansion to accommo­
date the ever increasing flow of tired and ailing
humanity. It has been the mecca for thousands
upon thousands of vacationists and sick folks ever
since.
Here atop the Ozarks, almost two thousand feet
above the sea, majestically stands this magnificent
castle in the air. The lookout tower on its roof pro­
vides a view into four states, while in the valley
below the famous Crescent Spring provides health­
ful, invigirating, life-giving mineral spring water at
nature’s best. From the windows of every room in
this mansion may be viewed the beauty and gran­
deur of the Ozark mountain scenery, the fresh moun­
tain air ladened with the scent of pine is wafted in
from the neighboring hills and the warm, brilliant
sunshine is at all times congenial and stimulating.
Accommodations equal to the finest hotels are pro­
vided together with all modern conveniences. THIS
IS THE NEW HOME OF THE BAKER HOSPI­
TAL. The place where the sick, lame and afflicted,
the sufferers from cancer and tumor, and practically
all human ailments may come, enjoy these advan­
tages, and be cured at the lowest weekly rate ever
given for health services.
To gaze into the lobby and see the folks, young
and old, sitting around contentedly enjoying them­
selves, one would hardly think of them as being
sick, but upon inquiry you would learn that many
of them who are being treated for cancer, tumor
182 D octors, D yn am iters and Gunmen
and many other ailments, have been pronounced in­
curable, many have had operations, others have
been treated with X-Ray, radium, electric needles,
serums and burning acid plasters, and have come to
the Baker Hospital as a last resort. Further inquiry
would develop the information that these folks have
already found relief and that great numbers like
them have already left the hospital cured. When
the doors of the new Baker Hospital were opened,
hundreds rushed there to meet this man Baker, to
see this castle in the air, to obtain the Baker Treat­
ments and practically all have left with only the
highest praises for the accommodations and treat­
ment received and the cures obtained.
It is almost inconceivable that anyone could he so
low, so despicable, so dishonorable as to place a
single obstacle in the path of one who has achieved
so much for humanity, has made possible such in­
stitutions as the Baker Hospitals, has given to the
world the Baker Treatments for the cure of cancer,
tumor and other human ailments. If there is a
place of punishment in the hereafter, if there is a
hell, it cannot be too great, too hot or too deep for
all such, for every thrust at Norman Baker or the
Baker Hospitals is but a blow to the sick and suffer­
ing.
The folks of Arkansas and especially Eureka
Springs, should be proud indeed to have the Baker
Hospital in their midst. Their appreciation and
gratitude should he unbounded for Mr. Baker’s
nightly broadcasts, lauding the beauty and gran­
deur of their Ozarks, from his powerful radio sta­
tion XENT on the Mexican border, which means
that millions of dollars and hundreds of thousands
of visitors will be drawn to their state. Surely they
will not fail to realize that all this good fortune is
T h e Castle in th e A ir 483
due to the efforts of one man—NORMAN BAKER.
The man whom the organized medics oppose and
condemn at every opportunity; the hardest and
most relentless one-man-fighter the world has ever
known; the man who bounces back from adversity
like a rubber ball. THAT IS NORMAN BAKER.
If the Government will work with Norman Baker,
instead of believing the American Medical Associa­
tion and the organized surgeons are the sum and
substance of all cancer knowledge then cancer will
be conquered much quicker. What will come next?
Only the future will reveal.
Send for these 3
FREE BOOKS . . .
"Cancer and Tumor are Curable
Without Operation, Radium or
X-ray"
This book should be in every home. It takes the fear out
of “Cancer''. Explains how both internal and external
cancer and tumor are curable by medicines, without
operation, radium or X-ray. Takes the “bunk" out of the
Medical Trust's false propaganda which is driving millions
to the grave. Get this book — read ______ „
it — advise your friends. FREE °r °
postage
"THE CASE O F MISS WARD"
Miss Ward's case, is one that every woman and girl should
know. Here is the case of a young girl, given up to die
with only about 18 months to live. How she was cured of
cancer of the Uterus, cancer of the breast and side and
other ailments. Now married after
6 years and the proud mother of a _______
healthy child. FREE postnge
"AMERICA'S GREATEST CRIME"
Every red blooded citizen should read this unusual book.
It contains many pages of data, evidence, facts and illus­
trations that will cause you to write your congressman
at once and help stop America's ________
greatest Crime. FREE postage
BAKER HOSPITAL
MUSCATINE IOWA
484
CLASSIFIED INDEX
— A —
Adler, Mr. 251-382
Agriculture relief 422
Allopathic doctors contradictions 445
Aluminum poisoning 121-124
Alfred Brandenburg 338
Am. Med. Ass’n. (Graph 225) 193
A. M. A. Libelous article 404
A. M. A. 224-399-402-404-450
A. M. A. Ethical code 275
American Tel. & Tel. Co. 77-102
Am. Radio delegates to Mexico 426
American Legion 66
Arey, Dr. 255
Arrest of Baker . 414-463
Art Chaudoin 105
Att’y General, O’Conner . 420
Audit Bureau of Circulation 273
Austell, Mr. Francis St., 110
— B —
Baker Hospital, Arkansas 480
Baker, Norman vs. A. M. A. $500,000 . 402
Baker, Norman as a youngster 23
Baker, Norman apprentice ... 26
Baker Norman arrest ............. . 414-463
Baker, Norman agriculture. . . . 422
Baker, Norman campaign crowds .. .. 414
Baker, Norman court t r i a l .............................................................. 403
485
486 I ndex
Baker, Norman desk . . ............. .. 440
Baker, Norman education 24
Baker, Norman Federal indictment 463
Baker, Norman Final KTNT talk 353
Baker, Norman for Governor 420
Baker, Norman for Senator 464
Baker, Norman his life . . . . 17
Baker, Norman hospital 151-378
Baker, Norman in his ’teens . . . . 35
Baker, Norman Iowa vs. Baker 239-252
Baker, Norman parents 22
Baker, Norman Power of mind . 4 3
Baker, Norman sickness . . . . 39
Baker, Norman secretaries, Mexico ... 424
Baker, Norman Today 7
Baker, Norman Yesterday 6
Baker, Norman Today-Tomorrow .. . 439
Baker, Norman tubercular 41
Baker, Norman theatrical experience ...................................... 36
Bankers of Muscatine .................................. 53
Bartlett, Howard .......... 420
Barewald, Dr. .. 129-130
Beveridge, Dr . ’ 164-338-341-350
Beveridge, Mrs. T. F .. 342
Bellows, R. A.................................................................... 144-263-401-411
Blackmail. . 93
Blake, Gerald ................................................................... 416-420
Bomke, Dr 345
Bomke, P. O. Employee . 338
Bombers and Gunmen ........................................................................ 181
Breast Cancer . . . 143-260
Brandenburg, Alfred ............................................................................ 338
Broadcasting C h ain s.......................................................................... 96
I ndex 487
Bribing jury 406
Brown, Dr. 425
Brown, Radio Com. Atty. .. . 333
Building XENT radio station 424
— C —
Cabot, Dr. Richard . 214
Calliaphone 18-54-421
Calles, Pres. Mexico . . . . . . 88
Campaign crowds . . .... 414
Cancer breast 143-260
Can Cancer be cured? 129
Cancer cure proofs . . . . 242
Cancer of skull . . . . ...................243
Cancer test patients ........................... 133 to 143
Canada ................. ... 239-418
Carpenter, William 275
Catholics and Protestants ................ 323
Chain radio station octopus 96
Chaudoin, Art. . .... .......... 105
Church, Zion Lutheran 420
Closing KTNT 330-355
Clement Wood 13
Codel, Martin 98-436
Commission, Federal Radio ................ 102-351-355-390-399
Conference, 4th Nat’l Radio 82
Conference, Iowa Radio . ... .................................. 175
Conference, Intern’l, Mexico 428
Conspiracy, newspapers 94-98-101-154-240-352
Cook, Dr. 456
Co. Medical Society ........... 148-153-162-338
County Atty. H. Wilson ................................. 188-414
Court Reporters.................................................................................... 240
488 I ndex
Court of Appeals, New Orleans . 471-472
Court of Appeals, D. C................... ....................................353
Court, Federal . . . ...... ....................................... 402
Court, Iowa Supreme . ....................... ....................................... 254
Court, District, Muscatine .................... ...................................... 252
Court proof cancer cases ..................... ...................................... 252
Cow tail war ' ...................... ....................................... 392
Cowles, Gardner . . . .................................. 240
Crystal Control ............................................ .................................... 330
Cromer, Mrs.................................................... ....................................... 454
Cumming, Dr. ..................... ..................................... 299
Crowds at KTNT . . . . .............. 90-92-244
Crowe, Dr.....................................................
— D —
............................ 456
Doctors, Allopaths . . . . ........................................445
Doctor Aldrich ...................................... ........................................223
Doctor Arey ................................ ....................... 255
Doctor Avery ................................... ................................ 223
Doctor Beveridge, T. F ................................ ........... 164-338-341-350
Doctor Boice ................................. ....................................... 223
Doctor Bomke ............................................. ...................................... 345
Doctor Brown . ................ ......................................425
Doctor Cabot, Richard ........ ........................................ 214
Doctor Cantrell .....................................464
Doctor Cone . . . . ...... ........................... 164
Doctor Conn . . . . . . ................................. 454
Doctor Cook ................................................. .....................................456
Doctor Crowe ....................................... ....................... 456
Doctor Cummings .................................. ........................................299
Doctor Emerson ......................................... ..................................... 338
Doctor Fishbein .............................. ............ 184-191-275-402
Doctor Fulliam, Mrs. E. . ....... ............................... 340
Doctor Howe, L. C......................................... ........................ 164-338-349
Doctor Hall, Andy........................................ .........................................335
I ndex 489
Doctor Kinnaman, C. H........................ 332-334
Doctor Levy, Leon ................... ................... .... 178
Doctor Mohler, J. R .......................................................................... 104
Doctor McManus .......... 223
Doctors, Mexican ................................. 418-424
Doctor Potter, W. W.................. 261-263-400-417-454-456
Doctor Palmer, B. J ................... ................... ... 422
Doctor Rohlf.................................. 265
Doctor Rush, Benjamin ............ 196
Doctor Statler, J. L.......................................... .. ..153-401
Doctor Simmons, George............................................. 199
Doctor Smith, R. C........................................................ 337
Doctor Wood, Francis Carter ........................................................ 455
Doctors, U. S. Health ....................................................................... 299
Doctors, at Muscatine, Iowa...................................................... 168
Doctors, Gunmen, Dynamiters...................................................... 170
District Court ..................................................................................... 252
Dill, Senator C. C.................................................................................... 427
Dill Radio Bill ................................................................................ 86
Des Moines Register ....................................................................... 240
Devitt, John .......................................................................... . 257
Dewey, Judge........................................................................................ 401
Decision, premature..............................................................................455
— E —
Easson, Jessie ................................................................... ' ........ 338
Ethics, Code of A. M. A...................................................................... 275
Edith Games .................................................................................... 340
Eureka Springs, Arkansas . . 480
— F —
Farmers at Capitol ............................................................. 392
Farm organizations ... ....... 395
Farm Bureau 395
490 I ndex
Farmer-Labor Party 417-420
Federal Indictment ................................... 463
Federal Radio Commission .... 102-351-355-390-399
Federal Radio Commissioners ....................................351
Federal Food and Drug Dept. .....................................444
Federal Court, $500,000 case ............... 402
Ficken, John . .. 105
Final talk, KTNT ..................................356
Fletcher, John ............................. 397-416
Fogelsong, preacher 341
Food and Drug Bill ......................... 458
Footlights ............. 36
Fourth Nat. Radio Conf. ..... 82
France, James . . . 402-410
Fuller, John ............................. 105
Fulliam, Mrs. Dr. E. ............................ 340
— G —
Games, Miss Edith ................................ 340
Gardner Cowles ................................. 240
Gov. Ferguson ................................ 452
Gov. Turner, Iowa .............. 285-287-396-415
Gov. Herring, Iowa ....................................398
Gov. Sterling, Texas ....................... 415
Grasshopper spit .................................. 235
Griffith, Margaret .................................... 339
Gunmen ........................... 181
— H —
Haefner, Rev. J. ............................. 93-420
Hearing, Radio, Muscatine . . 334
Hall, Dr. A. ........... 335
Haldeman Julius 477
Hanley, Chas. . 257-402-410
I ndex 491
Hansen, Elisha ................. ... 345
Harold Wilson . . . 188-414-416
Harold La Fount, Radio Com. . 351
Harris, Senator . . . . 314
Health Dept., Illinois . . . . 335
Health Dept., Iowa . . 153
Health Dept., U. S. 299
' Health Dept., Texas 425
Healthiest girl, Snydergaard .. 396
Herbert Thompson 256
Herring, Governor, Iowa . . . . .. 398
Hines, General .. .. 307
Hoover, Herbert . . . . 272-320-379
Horse dung 235
Hoxsey, Harry .. 259-266
Howe, Dr. L. C. 164-338-349
— I —
Ira Robinson, Radio Com.
Industries of Baker
Insult to Mexico
Insurance Companies
International Radio Conf.
Iowa State Health Dept.
Iowa State Medical Society
Iowa Med. Society Letter
Iowa State Militia .. ..
Iowa Agriculture Dept.
'Iowa Supreme Court ...
Iowa Radio Conference
Iowa Radio Listeners League
.. 351
93-388
..... 432
297
. 428
153
152-166
223
396
392
254
175
.. 108
4D2 I n dex
- J -
James France............. . .
John Kammerer .. ............
Johnson, Mandus ................................
Johnson, Senator .....................
John Devitt .........................................
Judges switched ..........
Judge Dewey..................................
Judge Ely ..........................................
Judge Nordbye................................
Judge Sykes .................................
— K —
Kammerer, John.................................
Kansas City Star ...........
Kennerly, T. M., Judge
KSCJ, Radio Station
KTNT a tta ck ....................................
KTNT Closing
KTNT Crowds . . . . .
KTNT Exterior view ....................
KTNT Final talk.............................
KTNT Interior views ................
KTNT Industries . . .................
KTNT Radio Station ....................
KTNT Sale prevented
— L —
Lawyer Brown, Radio Com.
Lawyer Devitt.......................................
Lawyer France.......................................
Lawyer Hanley ............. . .
Lawyer Randall
Lawyer Thompson
402-410
93
. 245-246-247
314
257
401
401
254
401-407
351-428
............... 93
.. 332-402-415
. 466-468-469
......... 98
........... 97
330
. . 90-92-244
.......... 78
................. 356
. 336
............... 93
....... 64
..................399
333
. . . 257
. 402-410
257-402-410
86
256
I ndex 493
Leon Levy, Dr., WCAU .................... ........... 178
Libel suits 477
Light & Power Co. 58
Light Plant, Muscatine 59
Lucke, Marvin 464-470
— M —
Marion Snydergaard . . . .
Mandus Johnson
March of Time
Medical Association, Amer.
Medical Association Depts.
Medical Octopus
Medical policies
Medical Racket
Medical trust
Mellon, Andy
Mexican doctors
Mexico
Midwest Free Press . .
Mind Power .......
Muscatine County Medical Society
Mohler, Dr. J. R.
Morris Fishbein
Muscatine Bankers
Muscatine Booms
Muscatine Broke
Muscatine Journal
Muscatine Light Plant
Muscatine Radio hearing
Muscatine Sufferers
— N—
Network of A. M. A. . 208
Nordbye, Judge ................ . . 401-407
Norman Baker on trial .............. 239
Norman Baker Today—Tomorrow ... . . . 439
........................ 396
245-246-247
477-479
193
224
192-224
209-219 to 223
265
192
125-271
418-424
88-377-401
. 269
43
148-153-162-168-338
.............................. 104
184-191-275
. 53
152
385
58-94-98-101-154-338-352
............................ 59
334
384
404 I ndex
— 0 —
Ohio, Toledo, water . 123
Octopus, Medical 192
Octopus, Radio Chain .......... . 96
O'Conner, State Atty.
— P —
......... . 420
Palmer, B. J. ............ 422
Parents, Baker ................................. 22
Perjury 466-469
Pickard, Sam., Radio Com. .......... 173-174
Poison water . . . . . . 123
Pitchforth, C. H. . . 345
Plot to wreck XENT ................. .455
Policies, medical . .. 209-219 to 223
Postofflce Dept., U. S. 425
Potter, Dr. W. W. 261-263-400-417-454-456
Power & Light Co. . 58
Preachers ............. .... 324
Premature Decision, Radio Com. ..............................455
Premonitions ............. 43
President Hoover ..................... 272-320-379
Progressive medical racket . . .. 265
Progressive Pub. Co.
— R —
. . 274-451
Rabadeaux, Clyde ............................. 251-382
Racket, medical 265
Radio Conference, Iowa ............ . 175
Radio Conference, Mexico ........ .. 428
Radio Guide ............. . 477
Radio Law ........................ 471-473
RKO Pictures . . .. 477-479
Regal Press 477
Radio hearing, Muscatine . .. . 334
Radio Com., Fed. .. 102-351-355-390-399.
Radio trust .. ............. 79
Randall, William ............. 86
Red Cross ................ 98
I ndex 495
Roosevelt, Franklin D. ............... ................•422-438
Rush, Dr. Benjamin 196
—S—
Sandaval, Col. M. 0. 88-427
Senator C. C. Dill 427
Senator Harris .. 315
Senator Johnson ............ ... 314
Simmons, Dr. George ................................. .. 199
Smith, U. S., preacher 324
Smith, Dr. R. C. ............................ . 337
Starbuck, Radio Com. . . . . 351
Sykes, Radio Com. 351-428
Statler, Dr. J. L. 153-401
Stevens, Charles 464-470
St. Austell, Francis .. 110
Studio permit refused .. 455
— T —
Tangley, Mme. Pearl ....................................................................... 47
Texas Health Dept. 425
Testicles . . . . ........................ 343
Time, Inc. 477
Titus, George 341
Thompson, Herbert ... . .............................. 256
Thompson, Ralph 257
TNT Magazine . . . 121-127
Toledo, Ohio, poison water . . . .... 123
Troops, Iowa 396
Tugwell Bill 442
Tuberculin test 395
Turner, Gov., Iowa 285-287-396-415
— U —
United' Farm Federation of American ... . . . 422
Union printers . . . . . 274
496 I n d e x
U. S. vs. Baker & Rood .....................................................................465
U. S. Postofflce Dept...............................................................................425
TJ. S. Treasury Dept............................................................................. 299
U. S. Radio Commission ....................................... 102-351-355-390-399
U. S. War Veteran Bureau ...................................................... 307-310
U. S. Attorney Douglas M cG regor......................... ... 466469
— V
Varicose Vein cure.........................
Vet. Administration, U. S. ..
Verdict and sentence .......
— W —
WCAU Radio Station .......................................................................... 178
WHO Radio Station .................................................................. 400422
WOC Radio Station .................................................................... 400422
Water poisoning, Toledo ................................................................. 123
Wood, Dr. Francis Carter ................................................................ 455
Women’s Field Armies .......................................................... . 478
Wilson, Harold ...........v........................................................... 188414
......... 129
. 307-310-392
............. 467
- Y —
Yost, Radio examiner .. .. 345-351
