{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__shaftesbury___private_lessons_in_the_cultivation_of_magnetism_of_the_sexes.pdf","mytitle":"Private Lessons In The Cultivation Of Magnetism Of The Sexes","mylang":"de"}
PRIVATE LESSONS
IN THE CULTIVATION
of
MAGNETISM OF
THE SEXES
Teaching the Development and
Wonderful Enlargement
of those
POWERS and INFLUENCES
That Nature has Invented to
Aid Every Human Life
INSTRUCTION BY
EDMUND SHAFTESBURY
Published by
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
3, 5 & 12 QUEEN STREET, MANCHESTER,
2
XT*
This Is the 1936 Edition of
THE PERSONAL MAGNETISM CLUB
It Consists of the Books :
"INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM"
"MENTAL MAGNETISM"
44
OPERATIONS OF THE OTHER MIND "
"SEX MAGNETISM"
44
ADVANCED MAGNETISM "
44
UNIVERSAL MAGNETISM " (2 Vols.)
Copyright, 1936
BY
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING CO. LTD.
All Rights Reserved
Including the Right of Translation
into other Languages
Printed in Great Britain
HOME STUDY TRAINING COURSES
EDMUND SHAFTESBURY'S PRIVATE BOOKS
EMBRACING ALL HUMAN POWERS
Group A—" THE MAGNETISM BOOKS "
1. INSTANTANEOUS PERSONAL MAGNETISM
2. ADVANCED MAGNETISM
Control of Others Through the Feelings
3. MENTAL MAGNETISM
Mastery in All the Conflicts of Life
4. SEX MAGNETISM
Private Studies for Male and Female
5. THE OTHER MIND
Gigantic Powers of the Human Brain
6. UNIVERSAL MAGNETISM
Secret Lessons in Control of Self and Others
Group B—" COLLEGE OF MENTAL STUDIES "
7. FUTURE SEEING AND DESTINY
800 Lessons in Philosophy
8. THE GREAT PSYCHIC
The Master Mind of the Universe
9. LIFE ELECTRICITY
Creation of Extraordinary Health-Vitality
10. THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE
Uses of Telepathy, Mind and Thought
11. GOAL OF CREATION
The Temple of Great Achievements
12. YOURSELF BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
The Sublimist Study of Self
Group C
—
13. SHAFTESBURY'S SECRETS
14. BE YOUR OWN DOCTOR
15. BRAIN TESTS
16. LIFE'S SECRETS REVEALED
All new editions. Sent on Approval.
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING COMPANY LTD.
3, 5 & 12 QUEEN STREET, MANCHESTER, 2.
PREFACE
SEX MAGNETISM is not like any other kind of Personal
Magnetism ; it serves a special purpose ordained by nature ;
and, when developed and brought under the will of its possessor,
it sways men and women with irresistible force. It is mightier
than the love of gold or the ambition of greatness. It has held
in slavery warriors, monarchs, conquerors, geniuses, multi-
millionaires, and giants of power in all ages and parts of the
world.
Being uncontrolled, misunderstood, unrecognized in its
true self, and the creature of blind impulse, it has always
been evanescent ; it has flashed into being and quickly
vanished.
Every sensible person will agree that the strongest power in
the world should be fully developed, and brought under per-
manent control ; and this is the reason why we say this book
HAD to be written. Its author has created a course of in-
struction in the art of generating and using the force we term
Sex Magnetism.
These lessons deal only with the higher relations of the two
sexes. No reference is made to anything else. There is not a
word in it that a father cannot read aloud to his family, in-
cluding his sons and daughters, or betrothed persons cannot
discuss freely with each other. But, on the other hand, it
contains enormously valuable secrets concerning human life
that the world needs to know, and should be frankly placed
before those who need to know.
The information given in the following pages contains every
possible means of assistance to men and women who need and
want such aid. It COMPLETELY CHANGES MEN AND
WOMEN. In Man it develops all that is noble, virile, and
attractive. In Woman it develops all that is beautiful, sweet,
lovable. It discovers temperamental unfitness. It proves that
only one couple in twenty is temperamentally fitted to each
5
6 PREFACE
other. Sex Magnetism is the only power that can make the
true test.
A man may completely change his conditions. A woman
may rise entirely out of herself. But until this power of Sex
Magnetism is understood, developed, and mastered, the interests
of men and women are scattered, chaotic, and antagonistic.
But it is a tested and proved fact that by using certain methods,
a man may so far increase his own manliness and magnetism
that he can obtain absolute sway and control over his wife ;
while a woman may so far increase her own attractive qualities
that she can obtain complete sway and control over her
husband.
The study of Sex Magnetism shows the nature of woman to
man in knowledge that he can never find elsewhere. It shows
woman the nature of man in facts that cannot be obtained from
any other source. It lets each sex know all about the other sex,
and is absolutely sure to discover temperamental unfitness. It
discloses and lays bare what every woman ought to know about
a man. It makes clear what every man ought to know about a
woman. Not from a physical sense, but from that of the sex-
magnetism relations. It proves that man places too low an
estimate on woman ; that she places too low an estimate on
man.
Through the lessons in this book four classes of people are
invited to set up new lives—1. Those who are married. 2.
Those who are engaged to be married. 3. Those who are
neither married, nor are engaged, but who are marriageable.
4. Those who are neither married, nor are engaged and are not
marriageable. The study is not difficult. It is practical. It is
worth while. No matter whether you are rich or poor, high or
low, Magnetism gives you the nobleness of Manhood, coupled
with the purity and lovableness of Womanhood.
The whole course in Sex Magnetism is directly human, not
artificial. It brings home to you life as it is. It makes clear
to you the facts of real life in wedlock. Wherever these teach-
ings go they protect the home and prevent estrangement. A
great tidal wave of divorce is sweeping through civilization
to-day. There are one hundred per cent more divorces in pro-
portion to the population than there were ten years ago. Home
life is fast breaking up. The sexes are becoming wary of each
PREFACE 7
other. Wives do not hesitate to leave their husbands when
unfairly treated. Men groan and sweat under the weary load
of expense and worry.
When home life ceases, civilization falls. It is useless to
blame the parties themselves for seeking release from conditions
that are intolerable. The times are wrong when so powerful a
force as sex attraction cannot exist beyond betrothal and
honeymoon. The remedy is a new standard of Personal
Attraction, and is found in the study of Sex Magnetism.
If you are a married man, you should have a strictly private
talk with yourself, and ask your own conscience the following
question : "Ami just as attractive to my wife as I was when
at my best ? Is it not true that I am graduaUy losing my hold
on her good opinion and slipping away from her respect ?
" Do
not say a word to her of your resolution to win her devotion
again ;
but, just take up the study of the following pages,
and note how, day after day, her old esteem for you will
come back.
Or if you are a married woman, ask yourself the following
question : "Ami just as attractive to my husband now as I
was during courtship ? Is it not true that I am graduaUy
slipping away from his regard and devotional attention ? " Do
not say a word. Just begin the cultivation of Sex Magnetism
and see how quickly he finds you the same lovable woman that
he first supposed you to be ;
beautiful, sweet, and attractive.
It is worth while.
But if you are unmarried, we ask :
" Are you, for some
reason or other, lacking in the power of attracting the opposite
sex ?
" If so, it is wholly your fault ; but you do not know the
remedy. Do not say a word to your friends, but quietly pursue
the lessons of Sex Magnetism, and note the gratifying results in
a very short time.
" It is not good for man to live alone." Science says so ;
Physiology says so ; the Moral Code says so ;
Religion says so.
Sex Magnetism is a charm that nature throws about two persons
when they first begin to take an interest in each other, and this
charm is not equalled by any other pleasure in life. For man
and woman to live together and enjoy life to the utmost they
must understand the forces explained in this book.
The greatest blessing in fife is happiness, but there can be no
8 PREFACE
happiness until there are two sexes to enjoy it together. So in
the following lessons there begins for you the development and
use of Sex Magnetism, which is : The Power of a Strong and
Intense Manhood ; the Response of a Sweet and Lovable
Womanhood.
CONTENTS
First Chapter—
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM
Second Chapter—
BASIC LAWS .
Third Chapter—
SIX SENSES .
Fourth Chapter—
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE.
Fifth Chapter—
SEX INFLUENCES .
Sixth Chapter—
GETTING TOGETHER
Seventh Chapter—
HEART INTERESTS .
Eighth Chapter—
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS .
Ninth Chapter—
COMMONPLACES
Tenth Chapter—
MAGNETIC MARGINS
Eleventh Chapter—
CHARMLAND .
10 CONTENTS
Twelfth Chapter—
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE
Thirteenth Chapter—
MAGNETIC CONSORTS
Fourteenth Chapter—
WRECKAGE .
Fifteenth Chapter—
MAGNETIC PASSION.
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM
AS the subject of personal magnetism is every year claiming
a large degree of attention from the thoughtful public, its
myriad uses demand a scientific explanation. It was once
thought that personal magnetism was a born gift ;
but, when
it was learned that this quality depended on the simplest
acquisitions, the opinion changed.
The foundation of magnetism is attraction.
That which attracts is magnetic. A young man who has
courage and displays it discreetly, attracts admirers ;
while, on
the contrary, another young man who is a coward will repel
friends. The driver of a car who runs over a child and then
puts on speed and hurries away, merits the contempt of the
world ; and no personal quality of a high degree even could
overcome or out-balance the low estimate in which his char-
acter is placed. If he were a business man, he would find no
customers among those whom he solicited. If he were a clergy-
man he would soon preach to empty pews. If he were a lawyer,
his clients would drop him. Yet, on the other hand, if he had
stepped in front of a moving car at the risk of his own life,
and had pulled a child from danger and death, his star would be
in the ascendant. He would have influence, and success would
be attracted to him.
Personal magnetism is the power that attracts the world, or
some persons in it, to an individual. It has many phases. It
may be a charm of manner, or a subtle influence of nervous fire,
or an electric intensity, or some pleasing method that wins ;
but
whatever draws people and does not repel them is personal
magnetism. Its advantage over merely acquired ways is that
it is permanent ; other people do not soon tire of it ;
and they
do not find out that it is an empty thing, like studied polite-
ness, or a genial smile. These are valuable assistants, but
they themselves are not magnetism. They are tools of that
power.
12 SEX MAGNETISM
It is true that a happy disposition will be preferred to one
that is sour and crusty ; but with nothing behind the happy
disposition it is soon a source of monotony. A woman who had
married a man because she felt sure that he would always be
kind to her, said at the end of a year :
" I get so tired of his
easy, thoughtless good nature. His smile is a grin, and it
haunts me wherever I turn. I see it in front of me at the table,
around the corner of the door, in the drawing-room, and every-
where. I want a man, not a pleasant smile."
The strong man behind the smile would have been satisfy-
ing ; but the smile on the face of the weak character is not
enough. He was kind to her, and nothing more.
Politeness adds to the power of magnetism ; but it is not
magnetism. A cordial greeting and a polite manner will win
more flies than vinegar. The business man who has good
manners, a pleasing way, and excellent address, has the tools
of magnetism ;
and, if he has no more, he will not sell many
goods. The film of his surface character will be punctured
very quickly, and through this the discerning buyer will catch
the real power behind.
The agencies that help make magnetism effective cannot
be omitted ; but they cannot take the place of the subtle force.
They occupy the unique position of being necessary, and yet
not being the power they aid. To cease to employ them will
cause failure in the uses of magnetism, and yet alone they
accomplish nothing real in the battle of life. A young man who
had found a young woman whom he liked exceedingly well,
determined to win her. He at first sought to impress on her
mind the fact that he was a gentleman. To do this he had to
undergo a complete revolution. His manner of dress, of talk-
ing, of conducting himself, and all his methods were subjected
to a complete change from the bottom up to the very top ;
and
this caused his friends to wonder what had come over the
fellow. The bettering of himself in these respects helped him
very much in the place of his employment. He grew of more
value to those for whom he worked, and rose in his position
until his salary was doubled.
The young lady all the time was unconscious of his admira-
tion for her. She did not know why he had been making
desperate efforts to improve himself. She thus exercised a
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 13
magnetic influence over him, although she had very little of
what is called personal magnetism. It was the young man
magnetizing himself. Nature carries on this process for the
double purpose of bringing the two sexes together, and of
aiding and civilizing the world at the same time. It is a rule of
Sex Magnetism that the more a man is compelled to appreciate
a woman, the greater will be the effect on the general quality
of the race.
The reason is plain.
When a boy has begun to touch the threshold of puberty, he
may not be aware of the fact ; but he is casting side glances at
the girls. When the mention or presence of a girl will bring
blood to his face, he is on the verge of young manhood. He
does not even think much of the girls, but they are nevertheless
exerting an influence over him, of which they are as unconscious
as he is. He is not as careless in his dress, if he is to meet a
girl at a party, as he would be if he is to meet only the boys
of his play hours.
It has been said truly that nature might get along with one
sex. The claim has been made that woman, because she brings
forth the race, must have respite from her duties ; but the
sturdiest children come from women who toil hardest at that
time. Even the Indian mothers were on the march at the time
of childbirth, in a large number of cases. The act of parturi-
tion is a simple one when closest to the habits of nature.
There is no objection on this ground. But if there were, it
would have no weight ; for the power that is able to make the
two sexes is amply endowed with the ability to bring results
in any way that is most suited to its purposes. If reproduction
were all that nature desired, she could have made one sex,
and have given that sex all the means whereby the race could
be brought forth with even less inconvenience than is experi-
enced at the present time. As some plants are one-sex struc-
tures, capable of reproducing their kind ; and as other plants
are bisexual, capable of impregnating themselves ; so the
human species could have been made in either way and have
carried on the work intended in as effective a manner as men
and women do now.
There are almost unlimited reasons why there are men and
women in the world.
J4 SEX MAGNETISM
The more the subject is thought of, the more these reasons
loom up and compel admiration for the design that is clearly
seen behind all creation.
It would be out of the scope of this book to discuss the
greater number of these reasons ; as all that is necessary to
the present course is to understand some of the things that
result from sex attraction. Progress is decreed everywhere in
the universe. There are some scientists who teach that a
existence is a circle ; that the sun in its career will draw all
its planets to itself, expand into thin gas, and begin all over
again through the basis of a nebular birth. Nothing but theory
has been advanced to sustain this view ;
and the theory has
not one tangible or probable fact on which to rest.
As opposed to this theory is a long line of facts that have
been enacted in the past history of the earth and of which
there is an absolute certainty. It is known that the world
was crude and rough in its condition and in its peoples a few
thousand years ago. It is known that there was no °^™tion
until within the last twenty or thirty centuries ;
and then only
among a small percentage of humanity. It is known that there
has been a gradual average improvement, not only in the earth
itself but in its inhabitants ;
until in this age, in which you
live there is a decided advance in every direction.
Tn lands where each sex has come to regard each sex with
a higher degree of respect, and especially where women have
been lifted out of the physical to the ethical standard, there
has been a rapid growth of the better impulses of the race. This
is called the racial influence of sex appreciation.
But as a nation there is the composite structure of its parts
s0 a general movement for the advancement of a large mass of
peopfe must have its basis in individual influences There is
no such thing as the improvement of a whole people as such.
If one perso'n is made better, and another person is made
better, aid other units are made better, the race wifl improv
in proportion as these units become numerous. There is no
one power so capable of carrying on this improvement as the
power of Sex Magnetism.
This quality is diverse and many-sided.
We hive seen that it will bring greater care to the young
man in his habits of dress and manner and culture than any
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 15
other influence. He does not plan his improvement with de-
liberation so much as with an instinctive drifting of his conduct.
He seems to know that the girl expects him to assume a better
plumage. This is true in the bird habits of the forest. The
female may be wooed by many male birds ; and the one that
is most attractive to her in feathers, in song and in physical
power, is the proud winner. He, too, seeks the most attractive
of females ; and thus their offspring will average slightly
better than their ancestry. The weaker birds are side-tracked ;
many never propagate ; and many are killed in fights. The
fittest survive. This is nature's purpose.
The same instinct is handed down to humanity.
When once there is a girl in prospect for a decent young
man, he assumes better plumage, cleaner habits, and a more
manly conduct. If he is unworthy, like many of the sons of
the idle rich, he will visit houses of prostitution long before
he is fit for such uses, and his manhood will become beastly
and degraded. The very stimulus that nature has implanted
in the race is dulled and lost. There will be coarseness in fine
clothes ; bad eyes in a weak head, and a disrespect of women
in a debauched body. Many a boy still under the last year of
his teens has become old in his wickedness ; which fact carries
with it the lesson that parents should know what their boys
are doing.
There is a good or a bad influence always at work.
Leaving aside all such cases, and bringing these lessons
home to the decent classes, we will proceed on the plan that
has been founded by the Creator and that bears the divine stamp
in every part of its wonderful workings. The first step in this
plan is the power that comes over a young man or young
woman at that period when they are swayed by the develop-
ing sex-growth within themselves. Up to the age of puberty,
they are making their bodies ; and after that early age is
passed, just as they are embarked in the second line of fife's
journey, they are conscious of a revolution going on within
them. It is not best then that they be separated, for the society
of the opposite sex under careful watchfulness is always a good
influence.
The first fancy is not a love, but a sexual impulse that lives
its day and fades away. It is that power that drives onward
16 SEX MAGNETISM
the steeds of a new mode of living. Here it should be looked
after, and encouraged. If the desire to appear to advantage
in the presence of a girl will make a boy more attentive to
himself, it is the best of all teachers. This lad that never cared
how he looked, last week for the first time blacked his shoes
just before he left the house. The mother said to the father,
" What's up with Ned ? " " Some girl," was the reply. " Ned
is too young to think of a girl. That is all nonsense." " I
think it is a girl all the same."
The only reason why Ned blacked his shoes before he went
out that evening, was that he was to pass the corner where
Sadie lived. She saw the shine on the shoes. She thought
Ned was picking up in his habits. She, too, smartened up a
bit. Both were very young, yet both had reached that new
age where a halo floats over the thoughts of some one of the
opposite sex, no matter how remote the chances are of a
friendship.
In the rough ways of the football world, where the love of
the game is much more keen than the love of anything else in
the world, when once the sex instinct is aroused, even by the
smile of a girl, a strong mood seizes the lad and he plays badly
because his thoughts are far away. As a practical joke, one
very sweet girl of the back streets, a poor but worthy child of
fourteen, who had suddenly come into the fortune of two
pounds and who had spent it making herself look sweeter
by garnishing her hair and face and neck, undertook to see
what effect her improvement would have on her boy friends.
For each of them separately she had a stage smile ;
it was
pretty, as she was, and as fascinating. More than twenty boys
were infected by it. Each thought she was created for him.
They set about making themselves look more inviting ;
and,
although they were but fifteen or sixteen years of age, they
even planned for the day when they could lead her to the altar.
Each was ignorant of the smile she had bestowed on the others.
The effect was, however, marked and noteworthy.
This is the influence that the girl has on the boy at the age
when he is first made impressionable.
Let her in her turn, after a year or two, find some one young
man whom she believes in, showing her attention, and she will
exert every effort to make herself attractive to him. It is the
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 17
old story of the birds in the forest ;
plumage and attractive-
ness working to win the attention and admiration of another
of the opposite sex. Nature is speaking through the sexes.
If there had been but one sex, and that a mono-sex human,
it could have brought forth the race with ease and with less
trouble than now ; but the uncouth character of the parent
would be passed down to the offspring, and the species a
million years from now would be the same as a million
years ago.
But where the instinct is present that impels a girl to make
herself attractive beyond her custom, and a boy to do likewise,
then both become better for it. Ambition that might have lain
dead or dormant for all a life time, is aroused. The desire to
be more refined, and thus more civilized, becomes a moving
force. For her he would battle with the world and win. For
him she would make a home that would be a comfort and a
solace to him all through the scores of years that she hopes they
will dwell together. No other cause would arouse these desires
to succeed and to rise in the world.
The great fracture of nature comes when the charm is
broken.
The severest blow that can be dealt the human race is when
the boy no longer thinks the girl worthy of his better efforts ;
and the girl loses her respect for the boy.
Instinct is at work in the first years of puberty ; but as the
teens are passed, there comes the studious consideration of the
two sides of the question. What can she do to make him admire
her ? If she has a fortune to go with her hand, that is not
magnetism, but a commercial power ;
just as the man who has
a horse to sell will seek the man who has the money with which
to buy the animal. He will not waste much time elsewhere.
Most girls with fortunes feel that they have an aid that must
win, and they propose to wait and select the best prospective
husband. They do not stop to think that the man who
marries for money, earns it.
There are men who have money who also think they can
make the selection that is best for their own selfish purposes.
They want beauty to begin with, and fortune if they can get
that, and then the attractive qualities as an afterthought. If
the man is handsome, he has a good stock in trade for most girls.
18 SEX MAGNETISM
If the girl is sweet and beautiful, she has her stock in trade
likewise. The fortunes of men buy beauties, and the fortunes
of women buy handsome men. If their holdings are great
enough to have a foreign commercial value, women are able to
buy titles. Not all the disasters to the past international
marriages of this character can deter the next ten thousand
rich girls of the world from buying more foreign titles.
As a general rule, to which the exceptions are few and far
between, there is no happiness in the exchange of money for
beauty, or money for handsome looks, or money for titles. When
Sex Magnetism is lacking, there is absolutely nothing to hold
the contracting parties to a state of bliss. When this power is
present, there is no counter influence short of death that can
separate them.
In order to understand that peculiar power that is known
as Sex Magnetism, its first primitive work must be seen, and
that is the tendencies it creates in the boy's mind and in the
girl's mind when it first affects them. It is, as has been just
stated, primitive ; but it is a power. It is Sex Magnetism in
embryo. It is not a dream, for it is real ; but it sets in motion
many dreams and creates many fancies.
Its first object is not its permanent love. The fledgeling is
merely trying its wings.
If the world could seize upon and hold that better impulse
that is born with such power, all would be well. The hard
knocks of fortune, the struggles to keep body and soul alive,
the attacks of disease, the results of bad diet and worse cooking,
and the vicissitudes that confront the young man and the young
woman aside from the strange visitation at this period of life,
all work against its development. So there comes the interim
in which the character drifts down stream.
Later on where there is a new stirring of the causes that
arouse an interest in the opposite sex, and when the time of
fulfilment is nearer in view, the same power renews its work.
Love comes with force then and may abide. Now is the one
great opportunity to build well and wisely. Left to themselves
the young couple would take on the physical condition of union
and all the better forces would be lost. In nature the man
must meet competitors, and the woman must have rivals. To
overcome these, the man will prove his superiority, and the
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 19
woman her greater charms. Again the fittest survive. Weak-
lings and scraggy women are lost sight of in the onward march
of progress. But in the conditions of modern civilization,
genuine Sex Magnetism is necessary in the making of a correct
choice, and in the retaining of the union during a lifetime.
This subtle force begins as an instinctive influence ;
then
comes the interim of commonplace significance ; and again arises
the power of attraction and love.
If you can tell what it is in either sex that makes the mind
seek to devise methods by which the other party may be
attracted, you can get an insight into what Sex Magnetism is.
The old man woos with his statement of assets and liabilities ;
as the sex feeling is lost or weakened. " I have money, and I
have real estate," he says. The girl has read in novels that it
is better to be an old man's darling than a young man's slave,
and so she may be drawn by the commercial offering. But it
is not magnetism, and there is no happiness in store for either
of them. He will be restless and discontented, and she
will be waiting for the kind promise of nature to take back
its own.
In middle fife the man measures up the faculties of his
betrothed, if she is about his age ; or he estimates how much
happiness youth and perhaps beauty can give him. It requires
much more Sex Magnetism and of a different kind to cement
two such persons together in a bond that will not break at the
first shock. Such marriages have held, but only when the
magnetism is of the most positive kind, as will be seen in the
later chapters of this book.
The best magnetism is in that period of fife when the man
is between twenty-five and forty years of age ;
and the woman
is between twenty and thirty-five. The foundation of Sex
Magnetism is more vital in those periods ;
and, once laid and
laid well, it should survive until the last trumpet has sounded.
If it has taken hold of the fife of a man between the ages of
twenty-five and forty, and of a woman between the ages of
twenty and thirty-five, and is genuine Sex Magnetism, it will
endure for ever. Marriages may have begun before those ages,
or after them ; but the power once alive at or about such periods
is the genuine attractive force of Sex Magnetism. When there
is a real bonding of two lives earlier or later, it depends on
20 SEX MAGNETISM
two other kinds of Sex Magnetism, apart from the natural
instinct that has been provided by the Creator for the happiness
of the world. All these matters will be taught in their turn in
this book.
Enough has already been said herein to show that the pur-
pose of nature in setting up this power instinctively is to make
the two sexes attractive to each other ;
but, as they are not
created solely or chiefly to reproduce the race, there must be
a still deeper purpose ; and that is found in the small but
effectual improvement in the personal conduct of each as long
as the sex power sways them.
The interim between the first fancy of the boy for the girl,
and the girl for the boy, is attended by a falling away from the
reach of this influence, and it is at this time that the practical
character is forming, for good or for bad. The sooner the
young man returns to his appreciation of the opposite sex,
the sooner will he, if normal, lay the foundation of a substantial
ambition which will have for its object two things :
1. The means whereby he may be able to provide for
a wife.
2. The improvement in his personality whereby he may be
able to attract the girl he cares for.
It has happened in countless thousands of instances that,
where a young man has been absorbed in some young woman
whom he has not won, he has made the best out of himself.
The law of the " survival of the fittest " is at work in his veins
and he does not know it. Nature is teaching him refinement,
which is civilization. She is teaching him to add to his attract-
ing qualities, to add to his mental calibre, to add to his moral
worth, and to make himself a better man in every respect ; all
of which are steps in the civilizing of the race.
The young man who does not make rapid love is the most
in earnest. If true to instinct he will be several years finding
the words with which to state his proposal. In the meantime
the girl, if she is true to instinct, will not make herself common
property for anyone who may seek her smiles. She will not
be forward, but will be patient and let nature work in her the
definite knowledge that she most desires to possess, the under-
standing of her own heart.
He may hear her say that she admires an athletic young man.
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 21
He will not allow her to guess that he has heard and felt the
wish ; but he will begin the next day to build up the muscles
of his body. Or she may have said that she liked an intelligent
man ; and he will devote himself to mental improvement. Or
she may have said that she appreciates one who can rise in
business and become a successful man. All his thoughts and all
his energies forthwith will be put into that one line of advance-
ment.
These things have been said by girls to young men, and they
have borne their good fruit in abundance.
Now why is it that, after a woman has accepted a man and
he is apparently sure of her love and loyalty, he loses much of
his ambition, and becomes gradually indifferent to his conduct
and personal power to attract her ? The reason is that he has
won her and supposes that she will not discard him after once
accepting his offer of marriage. Another reason is, in some
cases, that the responsibilities and expenses of the approaching
marriage are more than he is able to cope with. He wishes
he were out of the engagement. On him comes the burden of
earning the support of two, and the cost of a home ; when he has
never been able to do much more than support himself. He even
fears that there may be three to support, and relatives, visitors
and friends to share his hospitality with him ;
perhaps doctors,
nurses and other attaches ; or what if his wife should desire a
servant ? These are fearful thoughts for a young man who has
hardly laid aside five shillings a week in the past.
If he becomes indifferent to his engagement, the result is a
lapse back to the cruder days when he was careless in his attire,
in his manners, and in his ambition. It would have been far
better for him to have delayed the proposal.
The wisest woman is she who prefers to hold her answer
back for years rather than plunge into an engagement that may
be broken, or into a marriage that cannot endure. Love is not
a guide to action of this kind. Love has no standing in the
practical part of the transaction. If love were a real thing, it
would survive the disasters and storms of wedlock. But it is
draggled in the sea and is laughed at when the end comes.
The man who is ardently loved to-day may to-morrow invite
hatred from the lips he kissed to-night. It is an easy step from
the better to the harder condition ; and an almost impossible
22 SEXMAGNETISM
step from hate to affection. Such is human nature. The blow
that wounds the tree may not kill it, and may be forgotten in
the healing process that follows ; but the scar is there to show
where it fell. There is but one cog when love turns to hate, and
it slips into it as readily as the ball rolls off the icy cliff ;
but
there is no cog that can be adjusted to bring back the wheel of
life and change hate into love. The change works but one way.
Let therefore the girl wait until she is a young woman, and
the young woman wait until she is sure of her future, before she
makes her reply. As soon as he has won her, after the glow
of victory which is attended by vows and promises to himself
and to her, he will begin to lose ground. It is the certainty that
he has achieved his great purpose of breaking down her doubt
or her opposition, that will take away from him the purpose
of making himself attractive to her in the grander ways that he
otherwise would seek. He may be neat in his dress, but he
will gradually drift into careless habits and deficient conduct.
His speech and vocabulary will sink to the level of his real
character, if he is thrown much in her company. " You are so
different from what you were three months ago," she may say
to him.—" Then you do not love me now %
"—" Oh yes, I do ;
but I wish you were just the same as you were before we were
engaged."
—" What ways have I become different ?
"—" I
cannot tell. There is something that is not the same."
—" Then
you are tiring of me."
—" No, I am not."—There the conversa-
tion on that subject ends. But there is the turning-point in the
lives of both of them. It is the first chiding, gentle and without
malice ; but direct and full of meaning.
It would be much better for both of them if there could be
a drifting back to former conditions. The young man probably
has love for her, such as love is under the circumstances ;
but
the keen edge has gone from his ambition to make himself
attractive except in the few outward ways that are prompted
by common decency. The thing to do is to break the engage-
ment and continue the friendship. This can be done without
taking up a life of flirtation, such as girls and young men like
to if they are made free from the irksome bonds of betrothal.
As long as they have a genuine appreciation of each other,
they should be close friends, but no more until times change
for the better in their personal history.
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 23
We are constantly going back to the primeval forest when
the law of the survival of the fittest was shaping the destiny
of the species. The birds were wooing and waiting. The best
male won the best female ; and this occurred in practically
every instance, so exact was that law.
After the winning was accomplished there came the steady
onward moving of the law, for the best was not assumed.
Birds are less scheming than human beings. Many a girl never
drops her slack habits until she thinks some young man admires
her. Then she has both her Sunday attire and her Sunday
voice for him ; while she may have commonplaces for her
brother, her father and her mother. The better conduct is
assumed and unreal in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred ;
yet there is an influence going on for improvement in both sexes
as long as there is doubt as to the decision. To assume a habit
that is better than you are naturally addicted to, will in time
raise your real character toward that habit. Most men are boors
by nature. When left to themselves they drift down the stream
in all sorts of bad ways. There is no power on earth that can
refine them but the desired love of a woman who has come
within the radius of their attention.
This law of human nature is well established.
There are countless thousands of instances being enacted
every day in the year where young men make themselves appear
better in dress and manners for the sake of un-won sweethearts,
than they would otherwise appear before their own families or
friends. Girls likewise are cured or partly cured of their boorish
habits by the same nature. Here is a rather pretty face, but
there is chewing gum in the mouth and slang on the Hps most of
the time. Those lips some young man would have the right to
kiss for a time ; and that mouth he hopes some day will say
" yes " to his proposal. An indescribable feeling of joy comes
to him when he gazes for the first time on lips and mouth ;
but,
some morning when he is passing the house and, unobserved,
sees the cheek bulging with a wad of chewing gum, and hears the
lips utter the slang of the bowery or young ladies' seminary, he
shrinks from the prospect that awaits him. She catches a
glimpse of his form disappearing in the distance and wonders
if he saw and heard. In tears she finds her mother, who soothes
her and advises her to drop the cheap and boorish habits. This
24 SEX MAGNETISM
she does. He calls as usual, and she tries to find out what he
knows ; but he is silent. He is not the same. Then she frankly
admits the fault, declares that she will never again use slang
or chew gum ; and this promise she keeps for many days after
they are engaged. Her mother warns her that she has gone
back into the old habits ; but she is armed with the reply,
" What difference can it make now ? Harold and I are en-
gaged." Surely it could not make any difference, as it seemed
to her, but the marriage never came. He was too shrewd to be
caught by an assumed refinement.
Yet had the engagement been kept in abeyance for a few
years, the effect on her nature would probably have been per-
manent. It is a fixed law that an assumed virtue or good habit
will in time make a real character. Some people find fault
because so many persons go to church and become members,
who are not sincere. It is true they are hypocrites and that they
do not seek religion for the spiritual good it will do them ; but
for social or commercial ends. Yet the very hypocrisy they are
practising at the start, if continued long enough, will form a
new character. Assume a virtue if you have it not, is an old
bit of advice that bears more good fruit than bad.
The laughable thing about love is the assumption of all the
better traits by both sexes. This influence begins its work
in the teens as soon as love gets its start ;
but, if there is no
betrothal then, and the parties drift wide apart, they will, in
other affiliations, put in practice the same law. A young man
who fell violently in love when he was sixteen, and who was
rejected, became the object of much ridicule because of his
shoddy appearance soon after and his careless conduct for
several years. Yet when he was twenty-five he again fell in
love ; this time with a different kind of woman ; and she held
him back for six more years, during which time he became a
gentleman to all appearances and affected good manners to an
excess, wore clothes of good appearance, and refined his speech.
So strong was the control she held over him, and so well did she
keep his wooing adjusted between doubt and the prospect of
success, that he had time enough to actually re-mould his whole
character. His earning capacity was increased, and his genuine
ability was enhanced in every way. This case is a typical one
of its class. The reason why the class is limited is because
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 25
most girls bite at the first bait, and the wooing is over. The
true girl and real woman will be wooed most of the time ; the
actual winning being held back to the very last day possible and
not break the fish fine.
It is in this progress of uncertainty that the world has made
all its progress toward civilization. The statement seems strong,
and it has been challenged thousands of times as being untrue ;
but the ablest minds that have at first doubted the accuracy of
the conclusion have, after thorough examination and analysis,
been convinced of the remarkable truth held in the assertion.
There is reason for it.
The most important fact in life is the existence of the two
sexes. No one doubts that. Such a form of creation was not
made solely or chiefly for reproducing the race ; for it would
be much more economical in nature to have mono-sex
beings.
The next most important fact in life is the understanding
that brings two human beings together. This has thus far in
the history of mankind consisted in the wooing and the winning
of the other sex. In the human species the male does the wooing
when civilized ; otherwise the female attends to it. In the
brute creation the female makes the desire known that she
wishes a mate, and generally adopts tactics of a demandatory
kind to bring about the consummation.
In the savage epochs the female was a mere slave. She was
either captured, or else subdued by a blow on the head that
rendered her unconscious until the ceremony was performed.
In survival of the fittest, both of physical supremacy and
superior animal cunning, the savages paved the way to civiliza-
tion.
When woman was fit to be wooed, a change of method was
ordained by nature. The physical prowess no longer makes the
standard of choice. Neither is the intellectual woman to be
preferred. By intellectual is meant one who has acquired
knowledge from school books. She is often, if not generally,
unprepared for the duties of the household, which is the
kingdom where woman reigns supreme, and of which she ought
to be proud to be queen. The wife is she who has a large fund
of common sense, excellent judgment and a practical touch with
life itself. To these qualities let her add Sex Magnetism, and
26 SEXMAGNETISM
her place as well as her happiness will be secure for a long and
honourable career.
But the fact that is most interesting is the power exerted
over a whole species, through many individuals, in that interim
between the first attentions and the final agreement to accept
each other. It is now a well-proved conclusion that civilization
owes its progress to the attempt of two persons of opposite sex
to attract each other through their own efforts at personal
improvement.
It has been shown that this improvement takes place
primarily in personal appearance, as in the plumage of birds.
Then it takes place in personal conduct. Finally it takes place
in personal betterment as in the increase of mental, physical,
and earning powers. There is not the slightest doubt as to the
correctness of these assertions. Being true, it is due to the
race that advantage be taken of the law that underlies
such facts.
The woman or girl who accepts the love of a man too
readily blocks to some extent the progress of that man. There
is no reason why she should accept it until she is certain that
marriage is near at hand as a probability, and that marriage
ought to take place. " My daughter is eighteen. She is going
to be married next autumn," said a mother.—" But ought she
to be married so young to that man ? " The mother thought it
was all right, as she expressed it ; but secretly did not want her
daughter to grow up to be an old maid, and she took pride in
thinking that the girl was popular. Another secret wish of her
heart was that the young man would be of help to the family,
as the father was not earning much at that time. So the
wedding took place, the young man was unable to support his
wife and himself, a child was born, debts flooded the parental
cottage and the end was the return of the daughter to her
parents with the child, and the separation of the couple. The
husband drifted away to another country and has not been
heard of since. There are half a million young couples to-day
situated almost exactly in the same way, and conditions favour
the increase of this number.
The man was unable to make himself a power in the world ;
the burden was more than he could carry and he did the best
thing he could when he gave up the fight ; and a life is wrecked
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 27
in another country, while shame and misery fill the parental
home. This case is a common one.
Parents are to blame if they hasten marriage. Waiting has
its advantages to all parties concerned ; to the young people
and to their families. In fact the longer they wait, the better
will be their chances for a successful marriage in after years.
Very few if any long courtships have ended in separation,
either by law or in private. The census is not complete in our
own records ; but of a list of six thousand cases of marriage
after five years of courtship, we cannot find one case of separa-
tion by divorce ; and only four cases of disagreement and falling
apart from quarrels. This is a most remarkable fact.
It seems that all causes and influences conspire together to
teach the advantages of long courtship. But there is the much
more potent fact that, as long as the female can be wooed and
keep her lover anxious for her approval, so long can she exert
the most powerful of all influences, his progress in every direc-
tion. The sum total of such cases is the advancement of
civilization. A woman therefore has it in her hands to make
herself the greatest of all powers in human history.
A volume of ten thousand pages might be written to sustain
the tremendous value of this one teaching.
It is true that, if a young man knows he is being held back
by the desire to keep him in line of progress, he might rebel
at such treatment. Let him rebel. It is better to make a
failure of the wooing than of the marriage. But the woman who
has possession of this course of study, if she is fit to handle so
great a problem, will have sense enough to keep the volume and
the facts from him. Two persons who are not man and wife
should not study this course, for one is sure to hold suspicion
against the other. After marriage, both husband and wife
and all young persons old enough to understand what is taught,
should study together, or in common.
Parents owe a duty to their daughters to tell them the
necessity of exerting a better power over some young man than
has ever before been exerted over him. To do good in the world
is important. Charity is not the best good, for it mends broken
ware. Prevention is far superior to charity. Both have their
place ; but prevention makes charity unnecessary. Which do
you prefer : to heal the diseased lungs, or to keep the lungs
28 SEX MAGNETISM
from being diseased ? To ameliorate the condition and suffering
of the divorced woman, or to show her the way to a happy and
permanent marriage ?
In addition to these advantages, there is the grander fact
that all progress toward civilization is the sum total of the
countless cases where women have been the cause of men
making themselves more attractive and more manly ;
and the
latter have exerted a counter influence on women. It is not a
one-sided power. Many a man by preparing too soon has
caused his fiancee to become lax in her habits and weak in her
resolution to improve herself.
But the question may be asked, " Is that Sex Magnetism ?
"
It is one of the aids to it. It is not the secret itself. It is
one of those qualities that cannot be omitted if Sex Magnetism
is to hold sway. The soil in which the rose vine grows is not
the rose vine itself, nor is the vine the flower. One thing is
necessary to another. There must be a place for a garden ;
soil
in the garden, nutrition in the soil, the vine in the ground,
growth and a fine condition in the vine, and finally the flower
comes. So with Sex Magnetism. It must have all the aids that
any power requires in its operations. No agency for success
stands alone. The electric current runs along the wires, the
wires extend from place to place, and the instruments generate
and direct the power, while there is a use for it in some
established methods of adoption, or it runs to waste.
The great dividing line between the anxiety to know the
mind of the other sex, and the reception of that knowledge,
makes two hemispheres of the sexual history. In one there is
doubt, eagerness, desire for success, and the constant improve-
ment that will increase the attractions that are calculated to
win. When a man in that interim will not better himself, his
body, his apparel, his mind, and his usefulness in life, then the
woman makes the saddest of all mistakes to venture on the
unknown sea in the same lifeboat with him. If his improve-
ment ceases before he has received his answer then it will fall
flat and dead after marriage. The same is true of the woman.
If she, before the proposal, and while she is anxious, neglects
to maintain a constant improvement, then she will be a dead
weight to him as a companion. There will be no success in the
marriage. This is certain.
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 29
It is the bounden duty of each sex when the matter is
pending thus, to know what the other party is doing. The rules
are nature's laws, and may be briefly stated :
1. The man should not propose until he is close to that
condition that will make marriage possible ; that is, he must
be prepared for all its conditions before he proposes.
2. The woman should not accept or even encourage too
much the addresses of the man until a successful marriage is
possible in a very short time after the acceptance. The be-
trothal, then marriage, or the parties may drift wide apart.
3. Before the man proposes and after he has shown an
interest in the woman, he should ascertain to a certainty if
she is seeking to improve herself in order that she may be the
more attractive and the better assistant to him in case of
marriage. If she is doing nothing in this line, then she either
does not care for him or is not worth his caring for her. This
test is infallible.
4. Before the woman accepts the man and after she has
shown an interest in him, she should ascertain to a certainty
if he is seeking to improve himself in order that he may be
better prepared for the vicissitudes of marriage and that he
may be the more attractive to her. If he is doing nothing
in this line, then he either does not care for her or is not worth
her caring for him. This rule is certain and never failing. It
is the safe way of knowing what to expect in after life when
it is too late to avert disaster and suffering.
Most courtships and weddings are artificial.
They are cut-and-dried affairs, being steered by old women
who love to pose as match-makers. Such marriages end
badly for the most part, and the old women do not care then.
They have fired the train of misery and seek no excuse.
On the other hand, the liberal freedom with which girls
and young men meet, court, are accepted, and deliver them-
selves over to each other, is as wrong as anything can be.
" I have faith in my daughter and she is old enough to look
out for herself," says the mother, and she does not know nor
does she care to know that her assertion is the most stupid
of all the things that emanate from her mind. She cannot
be cured of it, for it is part of her mental calibre. But there
are mothers who know better. They know that daughters
30 SEX MAGNETISM
should not be delivered over to their young lovers forthwith
unless there is an attachment between the two. If they do
not want to know, then they do not want to know that there
are in the city of New York two hundred and fifty thousand
daughters in one profession, the first of all professions, as old
as the race itself. Nor do they know, what all doctors well
understand, that the average of pure girls at the time of their
marriage, not including the foregoing profession, is less than
nine in a hundred ;
meaning that ninety-one in every hundred
girls not in the profession are, when they are married, or reach
the age of twenty, if unmarried, what they ought not to be.
This is the product of that loose system that permits girls to
deliver themselves over to the men who court them or show
them attention.
This fault must be remedied before there can be the hold-
ing back of the will in courtship ; for the man who can go
beyond wooing will stop wooing.
The girl who is left alone with the man, as is the custom in
the families of boors, regardless of social or financial rank,
can never employ such an agency as Sex Magnetism, unless
she is able to put into execution the greatest of all human
laws :
Deliver over to the man neither your acceptance of his proposal
nor your own self in the body, until that hour when holy marriage
may be at hand.
Let the ceremony come first.
An expert analyst of the conditions that make divorce so
common and estrangement after marriage so much more
frequent than ever before, says :
" The one underlying fault is
the freedom with which the two sexes meet each other and
accept each other. There is unpreparedness in every way."
Of course where this book enters the fife of a couple already
married, its work will proceed along different fines. There is
no wooing then, and the direct uses of Sex Magnetism will be
necessary. Then, more than at any other time, will this power
be needed. At the present consideration the following plan
of procedure is set forth :
1. All betrothals should be delayed as long as possible, or
not permitted until actually necessary.
2. Marriage should be delayed as long as possible.
USES OF SEX MAGNETISM 31
3. Improperly made engagements, as shown under the
tests thus far stated, should be broken forthwith.
4. Where marriage has taken place and there has been a
separation but no divorce, the parties should be brought
together by the powers of Sex Magnetism.
5. In marriages where the parties are living together, but
with a dislike for each other, all the powers of this magnetism
should be employed to bring about a liking for each other.
6. In all marriages where there is not peace and harmony,
Sex Magnetism should be employed to maintain such conditions
and increase, if possible, the happiness of both.
7. In the case of every man or woman not engaged who
desires to be married, this power should be employed to bring
about such an end.
8. In the case of every man and woman who is not married,
or who has been married and death has taken away the partner,
and who will never enter the bonds of matrimony in the future,
there is a distinct calling and a full measure of happiness as
shown in the present course of study. For them there is a
place in nature and in the world. They are not separated from
the sex relationship merely because they are apart.
While the one foundation law of progress has been given
much attention in this opening chapter, it is not the real
work itself. It simply shows the special design that is behind
all sex distinctions and all sex affiliations. It is one of many
influences that are at work in this connection.
Mere improvement is not enough. It is not sufficient that
a man makes himself a better man and a woman rises higher
in her standards under the power of the sex attractions. These
are the purposes of nature in making two sexes ; and a deeper
purpose is that of the unfolding of intricate lines of happiness
and bliss in a state of harmony between the opposite
sexes.
Nature has decreed one man for one woman. This law of
nature cannot wisely be violated.
In the brute creation this law may or may not be obeyed ;
it follows an instinct that animals obey. In the savage state,
this law is sometimes obeyed, sometimes reversed, and often
held of no consequence. But we are dealing with a chosen
age and a chosen people : the fruits of a true civilization.
32 SEX MAGNETISM
What belongs to beasts will make a man beastly. What be-
longs to savages will make a man savage. What belongs to a
high ethical standard will make a man noble and estimable.
FIRST TESTS OF TEMPERAMENTAL UNFITNESS
It is the most important of all things in this world to prevent
marriages that are sure to bring unhappiness. The results
follow in the children, and no doubt lead to countless miseries
that might easily be averted if even so small a step as the
first tests were taken during the period preceding and follow-
ing the engagement. There is a subtle law at work, and it may
be read without fail in the following rules :
Rule 1. If, prior to the engagement, and after the parties
show an interest in each other, there is a personal improve-
ment mentally, physically and ethically in which both partici-
pate, it is well ;
but, whichever party fails to make such
improvement, is not suited to the other.
Rule 2. If, in the days of the immediate engagement,
such improvement halts in either party, there should be an
end of the betrothal.
Rule 3. If, after the period of the engagement and prior to
the marriage there is a long lapse of time, say not less than
two years, and either party ceases to maintain improvement
mentally, morally and physically, there is temperamental
unfitness, and the marriage should never take place. Perfect
attraction is sure to sustain an unflagging interest.
If makes no difference how good a " catch " either party
may be, the parent or the persons involved who would insist
on the consummation of the contract, thinking that after the
knot is tied the parties cannot help themselves, will find the
results far more disastrous than the broken engagement.
Which is more to be deplored, a disappointed love affair,
or a wretched marriage ?
BASIC LAWS
ALL life is controlled by laws. If the laws are not made
by man, they are established by nature or by a higher
power from which nature derives its existence. To be lawless
is to be out of the universe. Before birth, the processes by which
life is brought into being are fixed and unalterable. During the
span of human existence there are physical, moral and ethical
laws at work, the adoption or rejection of which make
harmony or penalties that always attend the passing on
from the first to the last mystery of the epoch. When
death comes, other laws take the body and send it back to
nature.
When man undertakes to make laws for the world in which
he lives, he either expresses in his own words the truths that
have always existed or else he seeks to shift the work of nature
from a wild activity to a lesser form of energy. Thus the
human body, left to the common embrace of earth, would
soon be dissolved ; but man tries to hold its dissolution in
abeyance for centuries by preservatives and close sealing. He
merely delays what is inevitable. In everyday life foods are
perishable, but they may be kept in safety for years under
shifted uses of the same laws of decay.
The most erratic and the wildest of all forces that play
between the sun and its planets is the unknown but ever-
present power of electricity. Left to itself it is not only use-
less to man but is a source of danger. It is unknown because
human intelligence has never been able to understand of what
it is composed or whence its origin. By the operation of
natural laws it leaps from one conductor to another, seeking
temporary rest, only to be hurled out again by some new
excitement. Yet man has studied some of the laws which
govern it, and he is now preparing to use it as his companion.
He makes no new laws, but gives old ones a new occupation.
He knows what may be expected of it in varieties of activity ;
34 SEX MAGNETISM
and, as a result, there are many laws now relating to it that
were not known a few years ago.
Everything proceeds under some law.
So unstable a thing as human conduct would seem to be
exempt from government ;
especially such government as
man writes in his moral and penal codes ; but there is no
escape from the fixed plan of nature.
The body is physical. It has free rein in nearly all its
activities and enjoys personal liberty, but it pays some penalty
for every infringement of the laws of health. Under the hard
usage of the wear and tear of freedom, the body lasts less than
three score and ten years on an average. When a man comes
to die at that age, he feels that he has lived long ; and he does
not know or believe that he is paying the penalty of continual
personal liberty. As it is a well proved fact that the body
is intended by nature to last for 120 years, and to maintain
all its faculties whole and strong for more than nine-tenths
of that time, the willingness to give up life earlier is only
evidence of the indifference of the human mind in the
matter.
Poverty is the natural penalty of similar indifference. For
every hour of pinching want there are in the background
more than a hundred violations of the laws of living. To use
more than you need is waste. To want what you do not need
is waste. Most people do not need eighty per cent of what
they want. This law applies to every phase of living. When
your means are such that you can have more than you need,
and all you want, then you must make friends with the future
and lay aside a sinking fund on that account. In the mean-
time, live within your present and future income, if that is
possible. Of all the inmates of the poorhouses and similar
institutions, fully ninety per cent are there because they were
indifferent to the laws above stated. Poverty is a crime,
not against the laws of man, but against the laws of nature.
On the other hand, the man who is sure of maintenance
for himself and those he should take care of, and who knows
that he has an excess of wealth, should spend it freely until
the excess has been used in giving employment to honest
workers of good habits. The man who builds a beautiful
home and splendid gardens, is the greatest of all human bene-
BASIC LAWS 35
factors, if he employs only worthy labour, but if he gets results
by distributing in the form of wages his excess wealth among
the classes that drink and carouse, he is exchanging honour
for filth. It is the duty of every employer to know that he
does not pay the bills of debauchery.
There would be more happiness in the world if this law
were observed. There would be more happiness in the world
if those who cannot afford all they want, would learn the lesson
that they can get along with about twenty per cent of what
they desire. The earning capacity of the world, if divided
according to its total average, will not bring to humanity any
more than they all need ; and if one gets more, others must
take less.
Once money was almost wholly unknown among the happy
classes. To-day there are parts of Vermont where money is
hardly ever seen. One wealthy woman told the author that
she had spent one shilling during the past year. It came to
her in the form of a silver coin, and altogether by accident
its presence made her uneasy, and so she spent it. Yet she
had a very large house, always comfortable and warm ;
ample
furniture, plenty of clothes for herself, her children and
grandchildren ;
milk, butter, cream, eggs, flour, wood, grain,
poultry, turkeys, beef, lamb, pork, pure water, pure air,
horses and carriages, and conveniences of every kind, more
than ample for her wants ; and she was happy, supremely
happy, in the enjoyment of these comforts and luxuries. She
had books, music, a piano, and other evidences. She said she
exchanged in one year two thousand pounds of butter for the
piano delivered at her door free of all cost.
She possessed the temperament of living successfully in the
country. Most people do not possess this temperament ; and
they are abject failures there and elsewhere. The country and
the country alone produces the great men of all time and all
nations. To challenge this law is to fly in the face of nature ;
like the giant who thought himself mightier than the electric
current that killed him when he grasped it.
Most people do not employ their full earning capacity.
Most people do not save what they earn over and above
their actual needs.
36 SEX MAGNETISM
FIRST BASIC LAW
The total earning capacity of the world is equal to the total
actual needs of humanity.
By earning capacity is meant the ability to secure from
nature enough to provide clothing, shelter, food and enjoy-
ment during the entire period of life. It is a law of nature
that there should be no excess. If one person wins too much
in his case, some other person fails to that extent. It is for
this reason that freedom and personal liberty are allowed the
race, and that those who squander their health, their faculties,
their substance, their powers, their time, and their possessions,
should be marked by the grimy hand of poverty ; be felled by
disease ; or reap the unrest of discontent. But he who is
willing to follow the law is justified in winning all the excess
he may, provided he observes the next command.
SECOND BASIC LAW
All persons should study their actual needs and reduce their
expenditures to their level until they acquire an excess.
The application of these Basic Laws to the cultivation of
Sex Magnetism will be shown as we proceed. It is enough at
this stage of the study to make the laws themselves clear and
easy to comprehend.
The excess referred to is not that of money so much as
property. Money is helpful for what it buys, not in itself.
For centuries there were generations of people living in luxury
who had no money and saw no money. When they became
old and feeble, they lived on in the same enjoyment of their
property and its annual yield ; and they had no need of laying
aside a bank account for a rainy day, as the saying goes.
Money laid aside is not useful unless you have somewhere to
spend it and convert it into necessities and comforts in time
of want. An old man, spending his life's savings among
strangers or away from home, is a sorry sight. He becomes
the victim of every scheme and caprice that can be employed
against him. The accumulation of property and comforts, of
BASIC LAWS 37
place and companionship, of love and home, are better than
the mere laying aside of funds to meet the distress of fading
life. From the day when first the hands begin to earn some-
thing, down through all the years of earthly existence, there
should be one theme for every man and woman ;
starting
in boyhood and girlhood, and never ceasing to hold the
centre of attention ; and that theme should be the acquisition
of a home ; a real home ; a home with land on four sides of
it ; a home with light on four sides of it ; a home with air on
four sides of it ; a home with growing nature on four sides of
it ; a home where children may some day be born, and rise
up into the next generation to care for and protect those who
made this abode possible. That is the best sinking fund against
a " rainy day." To own a home is the greatest goal of all
human ambitions. It reduces expenses wonderfully. There
are no rents to pay. If the house is in harmony with the earn-
ing power of the owner, the taxes will not be one per cent
of that capacity, and so will be practically nothing.
Under the Second Basic Law every boy and girl, every
young man and young woman, every mature person just
beginning to obey the rules of nature, will soon find an excess
coming. Let its first uses be towards a home. Never mind if
you do not need the home. Never mind if you think you will
never need the home. Go ahead and get it.
Do not seek a large house. This is a mistake. One room
is better than none ; two rooms are better than none ; three
rooms are better than none. Many a family lives in a one-
room house to-day ;
many a family began married life
in a one-room house, and did not graduate from it until the
excess amply warranted. Of all those who began married
life with houses larger than they can afford, ninety-seven per
cent were driven from them by creditors. Which is better :
to stay pride and adopt the laws of life ; or set a pace that will
bring ruin in its path ?
Marriage should not be tolerated until there is a home in
which both parties are willing to live. If the woman is proud
and desirous of showing her schoolgirl friends that she is rising
in the world when she becomes a wife, then she will become a
drag to her husband and the marriage will fail. Better a
separation before the ceremony than after. True marriage is
38 SEX MAGNETISM
an outward voyage, not an ascent, and should not be a descent
in fact. The seas are level. They may be rough with billows
that rise and fall ; but their average is on the level.
The breaking of the Second Basic Law is the most prolific
cause of the awful awakening that follows the weddings of
to-day. The young man who has made himself appear well-
to-do, owes for his clothes that have helped him to win the
wife ; and the latter, using the squeezed pocket-book of a
hard-working father, has dressed in her butterfly apparel, only
to confess to the burdened groom that he must in the future
provide such things for her, as she is now his lawful wife.
There are days and weeks of silent weeping. There are menac-
ing misgivings in the husband's mind as he tries to extricate
his mind from the abyss into which it has been plunged a
tangled mass of thought. Why did he marry ? He asks this
question a thousand times, but never answers it. They struggle
along for a while. Others assist in supporting them. The same
clothes are worn throughout the year. The expenses are more
than he can bear. They fall in debt. Then the end comes.
It may take years to find the first stepping-stone in a pair of
lives that began wrong. Had they started right, every part
of the journey of effort would have been filled with a happy
ambition.
To those who are not yet married, we say, " Go back to
the Second Basic Law." To those who are married and
cannot sustain the cost, we say, " Go back to the Second
Basic Law."
What is that Law ?
It tells you that you should reduce your expenditure to
the level of your actual needs until you begin to accumulate
an excess. There are many things you have that you do not
actually need. Keep them if possible, but do not add to them.
Your food bill costs you three times what it should, as may be
ascertained by reference to a remarkable book, " How to Live
a Healthy Life." 1
Your clothing is above your actual financial
rank. If you dress for comfort and health, that is enough ;
but if you must please your neighbour, then the penalty will
be pinching want. If you cannot pay for more than one
room, take that. If the locality is too costly, go farther out.
1 Published by Psychology Publishing Co., Ltd.
BASIC LAWS 39
The walk will not hurt you, for walking is one of the best
means of physical health. Come down, come down, come
down, all the time, until you reach that level where you can
live within your income.
It is a wonderful fact, how few things you really need in
this world. Take the view of the philosopher, and throw off
the influences that set your mind in other beliefs. If you are
swayed by the taunts of your friends and acquaintances, you
will always remain their slave. You need very few things.
You have now more than you really have use for. Get to
your level as soon as possible.
The age is living too fast. The race is living too fast. The
conditions of marriage are mostly intolerable on this account.
There was never a period in the history of humanity when
marriage was so weak a bond, and when the sexes are drifting
apart so easily and in such numbers as now. Fifty years ago,
they separated by tens and scores, and created a sensation each
time. To-day they separate by thousands and are always on
the expectant list. There is a radical wrong somewhere, and
it is not difficult to discover it : the age is living far above its
means. Men in the lower ranks, men in. middle ranks, and men
of means, all find marriage too expensive for them ; and the
rich are unfitted for marriage in proportion as they idle away
their days and nights in useless waste of time and substances.
It is needless to talk of remedies.
History repeats itself, and the same story of the physical
revolutions that have been enacted in the past will always be
told as long as the earth is what it is.
To attempt to improve mankind as a whole is wasted effort.
Only stern necessity drives people to their senses, and they
remain there just as long as the stern necessity abides. Then
they drift with the stream that is easiest.
But there are a few persons, perhaps one in a hundred or a
thousand, who wish to know and better understand the laws
that are working changes in the conditions of living ; and it
is to them that this course of training is directed.
Every man and woman sheds some influence that is sure to
help those whom they hold most dear. Such an influence may
be sent forth by parents who will teach the following facts
and principles to their children :
40 SEXMAGNETISM
1 . It is not good for one sex to be alone in mature life ;
but
it is better to be alone than be together in a dismal failure.
2. Man needs woman, and woman needs man ;
but only
under conditions that can result in happiness and a successful
life for both.
3. The greatest magnet that can draw man and woman
together and permanently hold them, is true home life. There
must be a home, one that is owned by both, and it must be
made the central theme of interest to both from the first
thoughts of union until the last breath of life is taken.
4. Boys and girls, and young men and women should
be made to think of the acquisition of a home as the foremost
thing to live for. All other ambitions should be secondary
to this.
It is never too early to begin these teachings. They will
bear sure fruit as the years come on. Let it be understood
that it is far more honourable to own a home all free from
debt, than to win laurels in any profession. There should be
sermons on the importance of owning a place that can be called
home. Renting, or living in part of a building, is not and
never can be the magnetic attraction that is to cement two
lives together.
These doctrines have been taught in private for thirty
years. Parents who then were associated with our classes in
the study of magnetism as a power to better human life, were
induced to make a trial of these influences over their children
at the age that was most pliable ; and more than two thousand
were thus brought under this law. What was the result ?
Take a typical case :
A boy not over ten years old was often asked what he was
to become when he grew up to be a man. He had only a vague
idea of his future. His mother and father had told him that
he should be the proud owner of a home of his own, even if
it had but two rooms. This idea was kept before him as often
as necessary to fix it in his mind ; and the boy talked of
having a home some day, and of its size and shape, and what
it would contain as well as the gardens that would surround it.
He drew plans of several that suited his fancy. He observed
the cottages that he passed, noted how they were built and
had something to say about them. When he earned a small
BASIC LAWS 41
sum of money, he laid it away for his home. As he entered
into the years of youth he found the subject still more inter-
esting. Opportunity came frequently to lay aside money for
the coming home, and he eventually had a goodly sum that
otherwise would have been wasted. He did in fact own a
small cottage when he was twenty-one, and in this he placed
a girl-wife that has since grown to maturity with him ; and
their small home has passed into other hands, while they have
come to a grander residence.
This is a typical case.
It was repeated in nearly every instance where the same
interest was taken by the parents to impress this one great fact
on their children.
Never has there been a divorce or marriage separation
among the parents or children of those families. When the love
of home and the ambition to own one shall have been instilled
in the minds of the young, then a magnetic power begins to
draw the sexes together, and will eventually hold them so
tightly that nothing but death can part them.
You may say this is very good doctrine for the next genera-
tion ; but how can it help those who are now old enough to
marry or are already married ? Let us dispose first of the
children. Suppose there are ten thousand families where this
course of training enters ; and that there are on an average of
one child in every ten families ; there are then one thousand
children into whose minds can be instilled the love of a home
and the ambition to own one. Of this number, according to
past experiments, fully ninety-nine per cent will adopt the
teachings, and thus there should be given to the world in years
to come nearly a thousand marriages that will abide as long as
life shall last. What grander work can any one do than that ?
Even if only one home can be made happy in the future
where otherwise it might be wrecked, some good has been done.
True homes produce the truest men and women, the best
citizens, and the most exalted nations.
But in the cases of those who are now of marriageable age,
the incentive to establish homes is closer at hand. The Second
Basic Law must be brought to them in all its meaning and
power. It is wise to postpone marriage until both parties
to the prospective union are in full harmony with that law ;
42 SEX MAGNETISM
for, if they refuse to be led by it, they will never dwell in content
while married.
In the third class, which includes those who are already
married, it seems too late to instill the doctrine of home-getting
if they are fixed in opposite views ; for a wrongly made
marriage can never be brought to the basis of a true beginning.
It spends as it goes, and gets behind in its expenses rather than
ahead. If there remains any desire to reach a better condition,
the later laws of Sex Magnetism, as set forth in this book,
should be adopted.
No attempt is being made in these studies to urge a restricted
plan of living which will bring discomfort or ill health. This
statement that most persons want much more than they need,
can be readily proved. It is centuries old. There is a minimum
condition of necessities that can be ascertained by careful
examination into one's habits and possessions. The mind that
cannot perceive that minimum is not qualified to battle with
the world.
That minimum is to last only as long as it is required to
keep down the expenses that stand in the way of owning a
home. When they are met, and when you are able to live
within your income, then your wants may be allowed to
expand. Things that you do not need may be bought if you
can afford them.
What is there wrong in this teaching ?
That it will be opposed is assumed at the start. But is
there an error in it ? What truer law can be laid down than
that a person should five within his income ? Of course it is
possible to live within an income, and save nothing. Here the
opposition will make its chief objection ; for it will not agree
to reduce all the wants to the minimum of actual needs, as too
much self-denial is necessary. But the law is a natural one,
and will always exist.
Why is a home a bond of magnetism between a man and
his wife ?
It is part of a woman's hope, if she is normal in mind and
heart, to become the queen of a home that is owned either by
herself or by her husband ; or, better still, by both jointly.
She is glad to have a larger dominion than her neighbour ;
but this is the beginning of her downfall. When a woman
BASIC LAWS 43
wants to shine for the benefit of the neighbourhood, or seeks
something as good or better than those who see her from day
to day, she is breaking one of the best commandments ever
given to humanity. There is but one true criterion, and it
reads : Your needs are measured by the demands of your life,
and by nothing else. Your life demands that you keep your
health perfect, and acquire knowledge.
The desire to become the queen of a home is born in every
real woman. The glare of false conditions will lessen or ex-
tinguish that desire ; and the emptiness that follows it is utter
misery. No woman can be happy unless she is making a home
more attractive every day. In this world money and power
do not bring happiness. The most contented classes are in the
middle ranks. The rich know very little of actual pleasure.
There are flickering moments of triumph when some dress
excites the admiration of others, or some dinner advertises the
money ability of a host and hostess, or some box at the opera
is gay with jewels and gowns ; but these moments are followed
by sinking spells of abject suffering, only to be lightened by
the prospect of the next function. The palatial mansion is not
a home to that class. It is too artificial, too much in display,
too empty of home affiliations.
On the cheek of some humble woman at work in her two-
room cottage is stamped the joy of the wife. In the front
room, the couple live in comfort, despite the fact that it is
kitchen, dining-room, drawing-room, and reception hall ;
yes,
and conservatory, for there at the window two plants shed
their radiance of companionship. The other room is the bed-
room. It is not much of a house, but it is a bigger home than
the palace of the financier. There is more home in that two-
room dwelling than can be found in any mansion worth
thousands of pounds. And some day it will be moved aside
while a four-room house is going up ;
which, in its turn, will
give way to a ten-room house. The progress of right living is
wedge-shaped ; it is always widening as it proceeds. But woe
unto the person who begins at the big end of the wedge, as many
try to do ; for the goal is a point.
If a man is able to win a home, no matter how small, he
should be careful not to invite to it as his wife a woman who
thinks the residence too humble. She belongs to another class.
44 SEX MAGNETISM
If the man is poor the wife should be poor also. Love may
level ranks, but common sense keeps them level. The wife
should know just how poor her prospective husband is, before
they are married. She should be willing to start at the lowest
rung in the ladder of progress and have the satisfaction of
knowing, in later years, that she has climbed the whole length
clear to the top. Thus the couple will begin aright and on the
same plane. When a man is on the lowest rung of the ladder
and his wife is one or more rungs higher up, they will not be
companions ; nor will they pass each other until she takes the
fall that is inevitable.
If the home is a magnet of attraction between man and
woman, it should precede marriage whenever possible. Sex
Magnetism teaches this fact.
If it is to be such a magnet, it must be the centre of attrac-
tion for both parties. The gravest mistake made by a man is
his indifference regarding the ambitions of his wife. What
interests one should interest the other. This rule works both
ways. The business, profession, or enterprise in which he is
engaged should at all times receive the encouragement of the
wife ; nor should he deny her the full knowledge of all his
undertakings. On the other hand the things that the wife takes
an interest in should receive the support and cordial attention
of the husband. Foremost in her mind and heart is her home.
He should be able to discern with his own eyesight all the things,
large and small, that enter into her day's work, especially in the
way of adding to or bettering any portion of the house.
The husband who comes and goes from a home as he would
from a hotel or boarding-house, cannot expect to find his wife
contented. The bond of magnetism is lacking. Attraction and
control are the two channels by which all magnetism does its
work ; and they are not sustained by empty influences. The
real influence must at all times confront both parties. If the
husband is handsome, that is real, but not alone sufficient.
If the wife is beautiful, that is real, but not alone sufficient.
A married couple having nothing but good looks for each
other would go hungry, both for food and for the necessities of
existence.
The body must be fed ; so must the mind and the heart.
When these three receive their nutrition, then magnetism is at
BASIC LAWS 45
its greatest advantage. The mind must be fed by ambition, or a
goal for which to live. The heart must be fed by a mutual
interest. Home is the basis of all that is most dear in this life.
In it are found the sweetest and tenderest relationships. Nothing
can take its place. A rented flat, or house, or room, will never
arouse in either man or woman the interest that centres in a
home, no matter how small or humble.
A man without an ambition has no magnetism of any kind,
and never will possess any until he finds some goal to attract
his mind. A woman without an ambition is likewise a floating
raft, useless to herself and to her husband in the true sense of
the word.
A married couple who have no common interest in anything
will never possess magnetism of any kind, and no training can
develop results on soil that is a total desert.
These facts should be fully understood. Nothing added to
nothing produces nothing. Nothing added to something, adds
nothing. Something added to nothing is impossible. The sun
is a magnetic force capable of making the garden bloom into
beautiful flowers ; but if the garden is empty of plants or
nutrition, there is no power in the sun that can produce some-
thing from nothing. The mightiest influence of all life would
thus be wasted. So with magnetism.
The body must be fed and kept whole.
The mind must be fed and kept whole.
The heart must be fed and kept whole.
A man with a well-fed body and an empty mind, like the
usual husband in the ranks of the idle rich, is incapable of
exerting magnetic control over anybody. The same is true of
the woman.
A man with a well-fed body and a full mind, but with an
empty heart, is incapable of exerting magnetic control over
anybody. Many well-to-do learned men are found in this rank.
They are selfish and cold. Some women have good bodies, full
minds and empty hearts.
It is the triple combination that lays the basis for
magnetism
A body that is at its best.
A mind that has some ambitions and goal for which it
thinks and plans and studies and works.
46 SEX MAGNETISM
A heart that has something in which it holds chief interest
together with a person of the opposite sex, is well-fed, if the
matter of interest is worth while. What a man and woman
both love, and what they can think of all the time, plan for, and
work for, is sure to feed their two hearts ;
and, if they them-
selves come together, they are capable of exerting a great degree
of magnetism each for the other. But their bodies must be at
their best ; and their minds should be fed with ambition and a
definite goal.
When the sun's rays fall day after day on a flower garden,
they feed only the plants and the nutritive earth. Let the
plants be ruined bodily, or the earth lack richness, and all the
magnetism that nature can extract from the sun will go for
nothing. It is effort falling on useless matter.
THE TRIPLE LAW
The human body must be at its best ; the human mind must
have a definite and permanent ambition ; the human heart must
possess some life interest in common with a person of the opposite
sex ; and, when all three of these conditions exist, then Sex
Magnetism is possible in the highest degree.
Keep in mind always the flower garden that is brought into
beauty and glory by the magnetism of the sun. Remember
that the plants must be there and in good physical condition ;
and that the soil must be nutritive. Remember that the human
body may be at a gross disadvantage or at a fair advantage ;
that the mind may be weak or silly or drifting ; and that the
heart may be warped by selfishness to such an extent that it is
impossible to share its interest in anything with anybody else.
These faults are not only serious but fatal to the grand scheme
of living. They must be overcome ; first by study ;
and at
length by practice of the opposites.
" I love what my husband loves," does not atone. " Love
me and you will love my dog," is the price of a silly heart.
Many a man has forced himself to love the dog of the woman he
desires to marry ; and then he awakens to the nausea of it all,
after it may be too late.
The thing that is to claim the heart interest of persons of
BASIC LAWS 47
the opposite sex must be large in its meaning, must be of life-
long purpose, and must be capable of constant improvement
and betterment. It must be great enough to hold two
hearts and two minds and two lives ; and a woman's dog
can never do that. Nothing less than a home will answer the
requirements.
" I want a husband who will love me for myself alone,"
says the expectant wife. This means that she is to be loved
regardless of what she has in mind, in heart, or in her faculties.
While book learning is not essential to wifehood, it is never a
burden ;
but, far above book learning, is common sense and
good judgment. She herself alone without common sense and
good judgment would not be lovable very long. She may be
pretty, and even beautiful ; but what the man will fall in
love with eventually in a beautiful woman or in a homely
one, is what she has in addition to herself alone ; what she
has of sense and judgment in her mind, and what she has in
her heart. We would a thousand times prefer to be married
to a homely woman of the right sort of mind and heart than
to a sweet thing with a wrong sort of mind and heart. No
woman is long loved for herself alone.
The same is true of the man.
He must be something more than himself. It is true that
the possession of wealth takes the place of that something that
is added to the man's self, but the best woman likes the mind
that battles with the world and wins an ultimate victory, and
the heart that is alert in its interest in her daily existence.
Wealth is never a substitute for brains, nor for kindness.
THIRD BASIC LAW
Marriage must sooner or later stand face to face with practical
life.
It is natural that the maiden in her teens should be a
dreamer. In proportion as her prospects are far away, they
seem more entrancing ; and just as near as they advance
toward her, they take on the hard substance of a world full
of vicissitudes at every step of the way. It is sweet to dream
The girls who are given the opportunity to grow up to grey-
48 SEX MAGNETISM
haired age on a mental diet of novels, never awake from their
fanciful estimate of life. They have castles, luxuriant gardens,
singing brooks, golden fountains, and a kingly suitor always
at their feet ; and they never know the facts.
The shock is severe to most women after they have passed
from the dreamland of hope to the reality of actual wedlock.
One by one all the finer things are lost sight of, and the residuum
is practical life. This condition should be understood before
the betrothal. There are duties in the home and duties out
of the home, not one of which can be evaded if the machinery
of the new existence is to remain in working order. When the
bride discovers these facts she is appalled by the seriousness
and the common-place character of the situation. There should
have been a stage of preparation prior to the first steps toward
the engagement, so that both parties might have had some
definite knowledge of the fate that awaited them.
We have seen that a home in which both husband and wife
take an absorbing interest, is a magnet that holds the two
sexes together.
We have seen that a mind filled with a lifework, or goal, or
ambition, is attractive to the opposite sex, and that a heart
having a purpose in common is likewise magnetic in its
influence. These are great realities. They have an abiding
value.
It is also true that the ability to measure up the require-
ments of practical life is an attractive force that aids in bring-
ing two persons together. Life as it must be lived, and in
its most successful form, is practical. It is not ideal if by
that term is meant something beyond the actual facts.
To be ideal is to be right.
To be practical is to be as near right as circumstances
permit.
When true success is achieved in life, the ideal and the
practical come together and blend into each other.
There are constricting influences that are all the time
narrowing one's efforts and checking the progress of ambition ;
and it is a wise and keen mind that can adjust actual conditions
to their assaults.
Such a mind is magnetic. It should be developed in both
the husband and the wife. It is the opposite of the silly, weak,
BASIC LAWS 49
aimless dreaming mind that is unable to combat with the
world. To develop it in its best usefulness, both the husband
and the wife should study the influences of their own existence
and the expenditures compared with the income. The husband
should give up all his outside investments as long as there is
not enough money to pay bills and lay aside fully ten per cent
for a future home. The largest source of wastefulness is in
the personal expenses of the husband. It is true that he could
spend as he pleases before marriage, but things are changed
since the wedding, and there are two to share the earnings of
one. Heroic self-sacrifice is necessary.
The wife should, in aiding at this crucial period, give up
all foolish requisitions on the exchequer. She may suffer at
the closeness necessary ; but times will be harder before they
are better if she does not also practise self-denial. The two
parties ought to have a perfect understanding, and live up to
it. Loyalty at this time will prove a magnet that will hold
them together better than bickerings and complaints. A
common and mutual budget, showing both sides of the account,
and placed daily in writing, is beneficial. When one party
begins to deceive the other, then all magnetism flies away,
and the rocks are ahead.
The wife has her friends and her relatives to make sug-
gestions as to the many ways in which to spend money. A
strict refusal to let them into her secrets is her duty to her
husband. He has many of his old companions who will want
to share some of the old ways with him ; but he must possess
the mind and will of a man who loves his wife, and so cling
wholly to her in preference to all the world. This is being
practical, for it is making the best of a bad situation, where
every penny has weight, and every shilling is a giant. It is
strictly necessary if the marriage is to succeed.
Any advance preparations that are made for the actual
conditions that must be confronted are immensely helpful.
The man should try to ascertain if he is able to restrict himself
as he will have to do later on ; and the woman should practise
the same economy. If the burden is too severe for either
to endure, then the wedding should be postponed ; for the
possibility of adding children to the household is a heavier
drain on the income than any other one item.
50 SEX MAGNETISM
Practical life requires actual contact with the conditions
that must exist. It also requires perfect confidence each with
the other. There should be no secrets as between them that
relate to the struggle to get along ; but there should be absolute
secrets from all other persons no matter how closely related
fchey may be. If parents of means wish to help the couple,
they will see for themselves what the facts are, unless there is
an attempt to live beyond the income, and this show of success
that is false often deters well-to-do relatives from contributing
to the little budget. A certain couple set up housekeeping by
agreement on a minimum basis, spending as little as possible,
and having in view only the bare necessities. Both parties had
relatives who could spare liberal amounts to assist them. When
the meagre supplies and the very plain meals were in evidence,
there were generous contributions from both families. Of these,
about ninety per cent was laid away by agreement ; and ten
per cent was at once invested in things for the house. In the
course of another Christmas there were more cheques with the
same result. In the meantime the husband, by attention to
business, bettered his own income ; and the couple were soon
able to own the house which they called home. This was
twenty-two years ago ; and the family is to-day in the triumph
of their existence. They were loyal each to the other ;
they
had their secrets from all their friends and relatives, but no
secrets from each other relating to the conditions of their own
affairs. If a man has had anything in the past that he is sorry
for, it will only serve to weaken his hold on his wife's affections
for him to expose it to her. It is past and it should remain
buried. Most young men sow wild oats ; let the field stay
unharrowed. The real degree of loyalty to her since he has
known her is the only measure by which he is to be estimated.
What he was before he knew her, is not always best to disclose.
The same is true of her. The chances are that she has had
suitors ; has been a flirt ;
may have been engaged ; for these
are the first steps in the history of most girls who are left to
themselves. If there is any fact to conceal from the world
in that past of hers, let it be kept concealed from her husband.
If he is true he will not want to know. But if he begins to
pry, he should be told in plain words that she has nothing to
tell him. It would be a mistake to say that she does not wish
BASIC LAWS 51
to tell him. It is right to declare that she has nothing to tell
him. She should not create a suspicion about herself. There
are many cases of divorce that have had their first incentive
in the desire to get away from a wife who has confessed to
errors of her girlhood. While these are not legal grounds for
separation, the husband who once loses faith in his wife is
sure to drift away on some cause or other.
But from the time when the two first meet and become
interested in each other, they should be loyal ;
loyal in thought,
in deed, in purpose, and in every throb of the heart. It is not
loyal to pretend to better financial condition than the facts
will sustain. It is not loyal to deceive, however lightly. It
is not loyal to waste time, money or opportunity that may
help to bring comforts after marriage.
Practical life includes all these things, and also involves
the many duties that pertain to marriage and to the outside
world after the new relationship has been established.
What these duties are may be divided into two classes.
1. The duties that husband and wife owe to each other
both personally and in the home itself.
2. The duties that husband and wife as such owe to the
world at large.
You see that marriage involves new obligations. The loss
of old friends need not be permanent, but they should not to
any extent divide the attention needed in the home. The
first duty is to cut loose from all else except the two following
demands :
1. Until the income is ample to provide for the home,
there should be uppermost in the mind the increase of the
earning capacity on the part of the husband, and the increase
of the efficiency on the part of the wife ;
letting everything
else remain subservient to these matters. All social and all
extra affairs, no matter how simple or how harmless, should
stand aside until this basis is well established. Friendships
should not be broken, but should be held in abeyance.
2. The couple should centre their whole interest in each
other except as already stated. This does not mean that they
are to be in each other's way, or make themselves weak by a
display of affection that is superfluous. A husband is interested
in his wife whose every act is for their common good, as in
52 SEX MAGNETISM
the affairs of home. He can show his interest by work, by
helping, by planning and executing, even if she is not in his
presence. If she shows a preference for his companionship,
there is every reason why he should be at hand to take away
some of the weariness of being alone.
The fact to be impressed on the reader of these lessons is
that there should be no divided interest. Constant billing and
cooing, or holding hands after marriage, is not the right kind
of interest. It is true that, under normal conditions, the wife
enjoys actual attentions such as she had in courtship ; while
the husband dislikes to render them in such fullness ; but
these are phases of human nature. It is a wise husband who
does not neglect his wife in these matters ; and it is a wise
wife who avoids too much display of affection for her husband.
Thus an average is found by the exercise of judgment.
1. The wife who is a real woman wants many personal
attentions and caresses each day.
2. The husband who is a real man wants very few personal
attentions each day ; the fewer the better ; but he may love
his wife as much as she loves him.
Nature decreed thousands of years ago that " the male
gives and the female receives." This accounts for the fact
that a man dislikes to be caressed, while a woman enjoys each
attention. If there is no suspicion of something unusual in
the act, a wife enjoys nothing better from her husband than
to have him slip up behind her and put an arm about her waist,
draw her close to him, and steal a kiss. She does not forget it,
either at the time, or in after years.
There is too little of such interest in married life.
But the undivided interest that is referred to is that which
involves all the thoughts and all the acts of the day, in and
out of the home. They should be for the wife or for the
relationship that exists ; and her thoughts and plans should
likewise be for the husband or for the relationship that exists.
A new world must be entered into when marriage takes place.
The old ways, the old habits, the old haunts, the old thoughts
and the old expenditures should be cut off by a cleaver as
sharp and quick as human determination can devise. The lack
of such methods accounts largely for the great proportion of
failures in wedlock that the records show to-day. Divorces
BASIC LAWS 53
are piling up faster than ever before, and there are many
more undivorced separated couples than there are those that
have been through the courts.
In the last one hundred marriages from a certain list taken
at random for the purpose of ascertaining the drift of wed-
lock at the present time, all the marriages referred to having
occurred in the past five years, thirty-eight have been broken
up by separation, a number of which have been ended by
divorce for non-support, and others are waiting the time when
they can afford this modern luxury. In the last ten years
the records show a great increase in marriage failures, far
exceeding any increase known in the past. The inquiry is
being made on every hand, " What is civilization coming to ?
"
A better inquiry is, " Can this condition be remedied ?
"
The peace of mind of the individual, the sources of happi-
ness in the home, the welfare of children, and the future of the
race itself all demand that a remedy be found.
Basic Laws show the truth, and the truth is all that is
needed to make things right, if it is adopted.
Which is better, to plunge recklessly into a condition for
which neither you nor your mate may be prepared ; or to start
in the proper manner and make marriage a success ?
Practical life can be studied and understood long before the
ceremony ; but if such knowledge is not had in time for that
event, let all efforts of mind and heart be directed as soon as
possible to learn the lesson now.
FOURTH BASIC LAW
The influence of the senses is stronger than the power of
magnetism.
The principle opens up so large a field of investigation that
a separate chapter will be devoted to its consideration. On
its face it may not be understood. Magnetism in human life
is no more powerful than magnetism in the physical world.
The sun is the most energetic of all powers, and its energy
is magnetism. It is able to hold all its planets away from it
by the pushing force of its peculiar rays. Once the world was
told that centrifugal force kept the orbs at their distance from
54 SEX MAGNETISM
the centre of the system ; and that centripetal force held them
within certain bounds ; but more is known of magnetism at
the present day, and it is now clearly established that the rays
of the sun, always proceeding outward and in the direction of
each planet, pushes it away from the great centre.
This is illustrated by the theory of the absence of gravity.
If you were to be in space where no gravity existed, the tiniest
push of the finest feather would set you in motion, and you
would travel in a straight line to the end of the universe if
no other power intervened. The earth is in space. A volume
of sun rays is always pushing against it ; and it must be true
that the earth would keep on moving away from the sun as long
as the sunlight continued to push it.
Another power intervenes.
It is the magnetism of the sun.
This is illustrated by the fact that, if you are on the roof
of a building and let go, you will drop down to the earth. The
latter is the gift of the sun, and holds some of the sun's mag-
netism, and this is called gravity. Nothing can get too far away
from the sun. The substance of the planet is held by the
magnetism of attraction, working always against the pushing
power of the sun's rays ; and the distance of the planet from the
sun is determined by the character of such substance which
gives it greater or less resistance to these two influences.
As the earth is the gift of the sun, all that it contains is
constantly under control of that great orb.
The senses are the practical channels of life.
They are created to enable man to communicate with his
fellow beings, carry on his work, secure his living, and have
knowledge of life itself. There are six senses :
1. The sense of hearing.
2. The sense of sight.
3. The sense of feeling.
4. The sense of smell.
5. The sense of taste.
6. The sense of knowledge.
The last named is usually omitted from the list of physical
senses, on the ground that it is mental. But animal life, as
in the lower forms of creation, are all endowed with the power
BASIC LAWS 55
to know something, and mental sensations are invariably
connected with those that are purely animal.
The simplest form of the operation of magnetism coming
from the sun is seen in the growing plants. The roots taste,
the leaves see, the branches feel, the flowers have fragrance,
and there is in the germ a knowledge of its mission and purpose ;
for, if it is commanded to bring forth roses, it will not make the
mistake of bringing forth heliotropes. Each cell is laid for
roses, each strand is woven in the structure of roses, and a
wonderful intelligence has charge of the whole process.
A human being has the six senses above mentioned.
He has been a long time endowed with them, was born with
them, and has come to recognize them as the masters of his
life. So strong are they that they are able to defy all the
powers of magnetism. What is called personal magnetism is
never able to set aside the sway of these senses. The only
course to be pursued, therefore, is to make peace with the six
senses. How this is done is told in another chapter of this
course of training.
FIFTH BASIC LAW
The developing course in personal magnetism must be mastered
before Sex Magnetism can be made useful in human life.
In the Magnetism Club, which consists of various courses
of training in this line, there is one book that should precede
all other works. It is called the book of development in general
but is known as the course in the cultivation of personal
magnetism, or the exercise book of the Magnetism Club. All
these names mean the same thing.
In all announcements relating to this course of training
there is the statement that the developing system must either
precede or attend the study of Sex Magnetism. While the two
systems can be studied together, the former should be kept
ahead of the latter. The purpose is to give the body all its
electric and magnetic endowment before it is brought into the
higher uses set forth in this volume.
If the developing course has been completed before this book
has been received, then it is advisable to review it from
56 SEX MAGNETISM
beginning to end. If it is procured at the same time the present
work is obtained, then the two should accompany each other
in the following plan :
Ten or more pages of the developing course should be
mastered in advance of the same number of pages in this book.
The first course will thus be finished before the present course
is ended, owing to the larger size of the latter.
THE SIX SENSES
BEFORE Sex Magnetism can hold sway in human life there
must be peace with the six senses, as already suggested in
a preceding chapter of this course. The analogy of the sun's
influence and magnetism over plant life has been used in order
to illustrate the meaning of the conflict between the physical
condition of the plant and the energy of the power at work upon
it. The six senses determine what a man or woman is ; and
they are stronger or weaker as these senses indicate in their
measure of the person.
Human life is like a flower garden.
It may be beautiful, or overrun with weeds.
In the garden there must be soil capable of yielding growth.
There must be nutrition of a degree of value sufficient to sustain
life and to advance it. There must be the plant itself, having
life and vigour. The weeds must be kept down and the plant
must be cultivated, trained, given its best opportunities for
development, and such care and attention as will ensure a
wholesome and healthy specimen when in its best condition.
Constant watchfulness is necessary.
If there is no soil in the garden, all the magnetism of the sun
will be wasted. It will be as nothing. If there is no nutrition
in the soil, the sun cannot employ its magnetism to assist the
plant. You see how valuable the practical things are in the
exercise of this mysterious and wonderful power that makes life
and buoys it up above the surrounding earth. If the plant is
dirty, if it is covered with moss, or attacked by bacteria, or
scale, or pests of any kind, all the magnetism of the sun is not
sufficient to save it.
Sex Magnetism is the grandest thing in the world.
It is capable of bringing more happiness to humanity than
all other causes and influences combined. Its powers are
limitless and far reaching. It sweeps all things before it.
But Sex Magnetism, grand as it is, pales before the influence
67
58 SEX MAGNETISM
of the six senses, and becomes a wasted energy on that account.
You cannot place a less estimate on the value of the sun's
magnetism, because it is useless in a garden overwhelmed by
faults and weeds. No more can you undervalue the power of
Sex Magnetism when the six senses combat it at every turn.
What does this mean ?
Some truths will be told you that may not be pleasing, but
they are necessary and you should not only read and adopt
them, but you should compel every member of your family to
read and to adopt them.
THE SENSE OF SMELL
The starting point in the relation of marriage is getting
acquainted. The girl and the boy may have known each other
since childhood, or they may have grown up to the early
twenties before they met. Whether in the teens, or the
twenties, or the thirties, or later in life, they found each other,
they got acquainted somehow. When he was ambitious to merit
her approval, he became suddenly neat and put on as much
of a show of refinement as he could understand, considering
the opportunities he had enjoyed along that line.
So fearful was he that she might see him in soiled clothes
that he became extra neat even in his working garb. What had
been his holiday suit was now used in his daily labour ; and
new raiment was purchased for Sundays. His shoes that had
never had a shine while he knew only his mother and sisters,
were bright most of the time, and especially brilliant on the
occasions when he called upon his girl. He did not eat onions
for two days before those events ;
and, sooner than he at first
thought, he was compelled to omit onions altogether, for they
did not appeal to the romantic yearnings of his sweetheart.
Why omit onions ?
Because, after they have entered the human stomach and
begun a series of changes under the influence of the gastric
juices, they are not the same agreeable things they were when
in the air. Their first assumption of odour resembles a chemical
tannery ; their second, a piece of cheese ready for the moving
pictures ; and their third, a defunct mollusk. Yet what
THE SIX SENSES 59
husband or wife to-day omits onions ? What man or woman
during active courtship eats onions ?
The pretty girl who knows that she is pretty, who is desirous
of making a good match for herself, never thrusts disagreeable
smells on the attention of the young men whom she is asking
into her drawing-room. Her beauty is magnetic, and nature
made it so ; for nature is the first and greatest teacher of Sex
Magnetism. Her eyes with their shapely lashes and soft glances
that stir the heart to its unrest, are magnetic. Her lips are
magnetic, and their earliest kisses when hot with love are
conquerors of the world ; but those same lips, charged with a
fetid breath, would drive Caesar to Helvetia.
It is not the period of planned and diplomatic courtship
that needs attention here ; but that more unfortunate period of
marriage that follows the allurement. How much part does
the sense of smell play in breaking the bonds of matrimony ?
How much part does it play in dispelling the illusion that
courtship throws over the prospects of wedlock ? Across the
street is a young girl whom we have watched for years. She
got married after a year or more of courtship. In two months
she was back again home, living with her mother, and arranging
to get a divorce. From her habits prior to marriage it was fair
to assume that she herself was the cause of the falling apart,
although he will be the respondent in the proceedings.
When he courted her, and then only, she was neat and
careful.
Let us get down to the unsavoury facts about the sense of
smell.
A young lady was very desirous of marrying a young man
of great ability ; but his rival managed to place some foul
matter on the shoulder of his coat, where the lady had learned
to recline her head. He at the time was suffering from a severe
cold, and the odour escaped him. But she lost none of it. The
result was that she just naturally lost her taste for him. They
were not married to each other ; but found other mates. The
point of this incident is to show the influence of the sense of
smell on the hearts of those who otherwise would be attracted
to each other.
What freedom does wedlock bring ?
The freedom to neglect the body in the most abominable
60 SEX MAGNETISM
manner and to compel husbands and wives to endure odours
that no other relationship would tolerate ; or else to seek a
remedy in separation, or at least isolation, as is the case with
those who can afford to do so.
The hair yields both a sour smell and dandruff. When
neglected it becomes rank to the nose and unsightly to the gaze.
The man can readily avoid the odour by keeping his hair
trimmed short ; but both faults may be overcome in man and
woman by the use of any mild soap ;
or, better still, by a
thorough washing once every five to seven days with some kind
of tar soap, spending not less than five minutes in rubbing in
the soap. Then there should be rinsing in hot water, followed
by another rinsing in warm water, and finally in cold water
until no smell of the tar remains. This will also benefit the
scalp, make the hair healthy, and promote growth of the hair
itself.
With this simple remedy at hand there should be no further
cause of complaint as to this branch of the body.
The ears are next in evidence.
They collect dirt and hold to it tenaciously. They also run
out a yellow wax that hardens at the surface and clings to the
lining at the opening. When carefully mixed with dirt this wax
assumes a rich golden brown. Then it begins to smell. A
woman claimed that she was able to identify her husband in
the dark by the smell of the wax in his ear. Husbands have
also been privileged to do as much for their wives. There is
no use in studying Sex Magnetism as long as this industry is
carried on. Get rid of the wax first.
ANTISEPTIC WASH
A very good wash can be made at home for sixpence a quart.
Get a piece of alum about a half inch in diameter and put it
in a quart of rain water, to which add and stir in a piece, or the
powder, of sulphate of zinc, about the size of half the alum.
The actual cost of the two is less than a penny. Take a point
of cloth, dip it in the wash, and insert it in the ear. Follow this
with a drop or two of sweet oil as hot as can be borne. Do this
once a week, or as often as the wax appears. It will protect the
hearing as well.
THE SIX SENSES 61
The same wash of half the strength will serve as an aid to
keep the skin about the eyes clean and healthy.
The eyes under neglect become inflamed about the lids, and
often are unpleasant both to the gaze and the smell. The wash
just referred to will protect them and keep them in good
condition.
But the nose. That is a different organ.
It has, when it does not possess a case of catarrh, a phleg-
matic state. Bits of congealed mucus are within and some-
times almost outside. Catarrh itself becomes very offensive
under neglect. It is estimated that ninety per cent of men
and women have this trouble, and neglect it. The remedy is
deep breathing of a scientific character.
The mouth is naturally the most prolific source of smells
of the upper part of the body. It had three contributors to
its fund of odours :
1. The teeth.
2. The stomach.
3. The alimentary canal.
It was a cause for divorce in ancient Rome to have a bad
breath. Women even were given their freedom for this cause,
as well as men. One of the most magnetic men of modern
times lost his betrothed because she came within reach of the
odour of his breath, due to bad teeth. The woman fainted, and
would see him no more. What is the use, therefore, of seeking
the power of magnetism when it is not equal to the power of the
sense of smell ? If the sun's magnetism, the most energetic
in the world, is not able to overcome the bad condition of the
plant, why should the magnetism of humanity be expected
to combat successfully the ill-conditions of men and women ?
Not one person in ten thousand has sound teeth. No matter
where the fault may lie, the fact remains ; and if any husband
or wife wishes to lay the foundation of magnetic control over
the other, the teeth must be made endurable. Those that are
hopelessly bad should be taken out ; those that can be filled
should be so dealt with ; and those that are sound should be
kept sound. A most excellent mouth-wash is the antiseptic
solution which we have described a few paragraphs back in
this chapter. It consists of alum and sulphate of zinc, and can
62 SEX MAGNETISM
be put up for less than fivepence a quart. The teeth can be made
very clean with it ; all disease germs are destroyed ; the gums
are kept in good condition ; and decay will be wholly checked.
Daily attention is important.
A good four-rowed bristle brush for daily use on the teeth
is necessary. It should be employed every morning on rising ;
every noon after the meal ;
every evening after the evening
repast ; and at night just before retiring. By this care the
mouth may be relieved of its distressing odour.
The second cause of foul breath is the stomach. If indiges-
tion occurs, the remedy is to overcome that trouble. It is due
always to a wrong food selection.
The third cause of bad breath is the alimentary canal. This,
for the purposes of the present discussion, begins at the stomach
and proceeds through the abdomen. The food in it should move
forward at a certain rate of progress ; and when this is retarded
there is stagnation and decay in advance of the time intended
for a healthy body. As the intestines connect with the circu-
latory system of the body at many stages, the decayed food and
refuse is drawn into the blood and carried to the heart, the lungs
and the throat, where the foul odours are set free. Few persons
know that much of the odour of the breath comes from this
source.
The remedy is in lessening the amount of food taken,
omitting all rich food, all dessert of every kind, all fried foods,
all pastries, and all meats ;
depending on eggs, milk, cream,
butter, toast, old bread, fruits and vegetables. This diet has
been tried and the result has invariably been the sweetening
of the body and the breath when its fault is due to this cause.
That such foul odours come from the intestines is easily proved
by injecting onions in the lower end of the alimentary canal ;
the odour will in a short time be very strong in the breath ;
and the same is true of any material that may be so injected.
Having got rid of the odours of the sour hair, the waxed
ears, the nose and the mouth, the next step is to pass down the
neck to the main part of the body. Sometimes the neck
itself is not clean, but this affects the sense of sight rather than
of smell.
When the flesh has gone for several days without bathing
it will ferment at the surface. This sends out an odour that is
THE SIX SENSES 63
quite disagreeable. Then the armpits yield up another quota
of odours by their sweating. Pads are worn that are guaranteed
to cover the smell over and so conceal it ; but they do not
remove it. It is there all the time, and the husband soon
learns to locate it, and also to locate his wife by its aid. There
is not much sense in putting the lid down over a bad smell.
Women are sometimes very sensitive about their armpits.
They shrink from the society of all persons except their
husbands ; and to them they freely give out the full amount.
" I bathe every night," says a fat, small woman, " but the
odour remains just as strong." She was told to try the
ingestion of her food as described in the book, " How to
Live a Healthy Life." 1
This she did, and never once did she
have odour at the armpits or elsewhere.
When the sweated surface of the body gives out a ferment,
soap and hot water will remove the fault. But when the
armpits are too active, there is no remedy but ingestion of
food. All other means have been tried and have failed ; but
ingestion has never had a failure.
Its effect is marvellous.
Similar advice may be given for the care of the body as far
as the pores are to blame ; but the middle portion is the seat of
excretions and accompanying odours, and it can be kept
under control only by soap and hot water. It is not necessary
for us to specify what we mean ; but there is abundant testi-
mony that both sexes are careless in this particular and need
to be cautioned. The husband must not forget that his almost
nude body is close to his wife at night, and that any offence he
may give by negligence is sure to belittle him in her esteem ;
for, no matter how low down in the scale of dirt she may be,
there is some instinct of decency left in her nature, and it must
be recognized.
Husbands are careless about cleaning themselves when at
the water-closet, and wives may be open to the same charge.
Their clothing holds evidence of this neglect, and the odours,
while concealed from the general public, are reserved for the
privacy of married life. These are not stray instances, but
are commonplace affairs in wedlock. Think of the awful drop
from the illusion of courtship to the realism of marriage ; and
1
Published by Psychology Publishing, Co., Ltd.
64 SEX MAGNETISM
then find an answer to the question why people do not care
as much for each other after they have been married as they
thought they did before.
'
' My husband is so filthy in his person
that I dread the time when we must retire together at night,"
writes a young wife who was once a beautiful bride and whose
husband when in public looks neat and rather handsome,
even now. It is a typical case.
Once a week bathing is too long a span for the body's clean-
liness, as there are evidences of ferment and odour, as well as
dirty conditions in two days under the most favourable circum-
stances. Nor is there any human being who can go twenty-four
hours without some of these evidences. The legs and loins have
a disagreeable odour in twelve hours ;
and, in summer, in
half that time. The cleanest people bathe in warm weather
every morning and every evening. Others bathe once every
twenty-four hours with advantage to the marriage state. Those
who bathe every forty-eight hours carry odours part of that
time. What then can be said of the once a week habit of
bathing ? There are six days of odours waiting for the opposite
sex ; and if they are in harmony, it is a case of exchange.
While it would require a great exercise of the will power
to better this habit, the remedy must be applied before there
can be any progress in Sex Magnetism ; for that study is
based on the law that the body must be at its best all the time.
The feet develop odours in a few hours. The wedding night
of a bride who had bathed in the early morning and who had
developed a strong foot odour by the time they retired, was one
that brought a shock to the husband. To him the girl had
been most beautiful and dainty ; and he could not understand
how so energetic and so disagreeable an odour could be generated
from ten little toes. The habit of bathing the feet and legs
every morning and night, even if they are only rubbed with
a wet towel, is necessary if the full respect of both parties is
desired.
Not only will neglect in the care of the body bring bad
odours ; but carelessness in the use of the clothing will also
cause the same result. Grease, dirt, food, oils, and nastiness
from many sources are collected on the outer clothes and give
out an unpleasnt smell to one who approaches them closely.
In addition to this both sexes go too long before changing
THE SIX SENSES 65
their underclothing. The latter will gather the ferment and
urea from the skin and retain them until they pass to a second-
ary stage of decay. If the sense of smell is so dulled that there
is no repugnance to such conditions, then the nervous system
needs refining in order to understand and employ so great
a power as Sex Magnetism.
Owing to conditions peculiar to her sex, a wife is compelled
to carry odours that she deplores as much as her husband.
But these may be reduced to a minimum. They are largely
the penalty of too much indoor life and too much food of a
wrong kind. It has been proved in thousands of cases in the
past thirty years that outdoor air and gentle activity will
lessen the loss of fluid each month, at about the rate of one
jjer cent a month, if much time is spent in the air
accompanied by some degree of activity as walking or attending
to a flower garden, or in any way. Some women have been
taught to take their work from the house to the open air.
There are many things that are done indoors that can be as
well performed in the open air, such as sewing and small
duties ; while some women take their larger work to a porch.
Perfect digestion, which means the disposal of all the food
without waste except in the natural way, lessens the same
trouble. Meat is always a prolific cause of odours and excres-
cences of various kinds, in excess of what ought to be the case.
Pastry, fried food, and any rich diet will cause odours that
are unnecessary. The practice of thorough ingestion, and the
consequent decrease of the amount of food taken daily, will
make woman a cleaner individual.
We refer to refined women, and those who want to be refined.
There are some who are negligent, and have no desire to
be otherwise ; and they include the handsomest of ladies
sometimes. Not a few of them dress in the neatest and most
elegant fashion ; but their neatness ceases with their outward
display. They assume that the public has no interest further,
and that any private nastiness of under conditions belongs
strictly to the privacy of home. The husband is expected to
have the same respect for the woman every day in the month,
who neglects herself always ; and she wonders why she has
not the same magnetism for him that she had before marriage.
A case in point shows the effect of the shock on the male
5
66 SEX MAGNETISM
mind when it comes all at once. A young American lady who
was noted for her neatness and special tidiness, even to the
extent of being called over-neat, was engaged to be married
to a very worthy young man of good family and means. One
summer when her parents were away he made the suggestion
while they were on a motor-car trip a few hours from her home,
that they be married at once, as a clergyman was at hand
with whom he had been acquainted for some time. She did
not wish to miss so good an opportunity for entering wed-
lock, and soon gave her consent ;
risking greater matters for
an unfit preparation. The details were arranged and they
continued on their trip to a hotel where they remained over
night. They were legally man and wife. In the morning
he left her and refused to see her again. In court he testified
that he had been sickened by conditions more foul than those
that belong to the female sex by nature ;
and, although this
was not legal ground for divorce, it entered into the general
testimony. The fault was not with nature, but with a young
woman who did not think it necessary to be careful in her
habits.
Such negligence is too common.
It is true that there are many women who are refined, and
who are as cleanly in all parts of the body and in the under-
clothing as the cleanest and neatest woman can possibly make
herself. These lessons are for the others ; and they dwell in
every rank of life. Poverty does not stand in the way of
cleanliness. In the middle ranks, as a rule, are the most
tidy women. Some sections of the country are noted for
their cleanly people ; others for the opposite. The exterior
of body, the hair, the ears, the nose and the breath are all
indicators of the character in this respect.
THE SENSE OF SIGHT
While the married couple have access to the disagreeable
odours that are associated with the body, and which for the
most part are concealed from the public, there is a more
general exposure of carelessness to the eye in open view after
marriage than is seen before.
THE SIX SENSES 67
This is due to the fact that the private relationship turns
to license between themselves, and sooner or later is free with
intimate friends and members of the families to which they
belong. A young man who had always been very careful of
his habits, and a young wife of the same previous experience,
found it easy to forget their past neatness in dress and care
of the body ; and in a few weeks after the ceremony, they were
lounging about with dishevelled hair, unwashed faces and
hands, and unkempt clothing. This practice started with one
of their Sunday morning risings, when they were weary and
did not think it worth while to dress for breakfast. It was
noontide when they were attired for receiving their relatives.
After this experience there was a gradual falling away from
the habits that are proper in the public eye.
It is useless to contend that man and wife should observe
the care in their dressing and conduct that they are required
to maintain even before their parents. Some license is neces-
sary ; but it should not be of a nature that will repel respect.
The hair should be made tidy as soon as circumstances will
permit on arising in the morning. Going about like a fright
is not magnetic. The face should be kept clean ; and the
hands, above all, should receive constant attention. No wife
enjoys a husband with soiled hands and deeply dirty finger-
nails. There should never be discoloured hands or fingers,
and the nails should be both trimmed and cleaned at all. times.
These hands of your husband pass the food at the table,
handle your fine clothes, and come in contact with yours.
You want them clean. All the more reason why you, as a
wife, should have clean hands, clean fingers and immaculate
nails.
Many women have soiled skin about the hair where it
joins the flesh of the face and neck. Some have dirty ears,
and there are too many with wax stored away there, but not
out of sight. The soggy eyes, red lids, and coal-dusted
corners close to the nose, are evidence of neglect in some
form. A running nose, either loose with thin catarrh, or
creamy with stagnant influenza, is unattractive. It does not
look well, and has no inviting qualities.
Men have these same faults in equal or greater
degree.
68 SEX MAGNETISM
Women who have not eaten proper food have bad com-
plexions and they seek to cover over the blemishes with
powder or rouge. This cover does not tend to effect a cure
of the trouble ; and generally adds to it by closing the pores
and cutting off the circulation. It is amusing to note the many
things and the hours of hard work a woman will employ in
getting the blemishes from her face, or in covering them up ;
all the while forgetting that the source of the trouble is a
bad diet, lack of fresh air in abundance, and rapid eating in
place of slow ingestion.
There are holes at the toes and heels of your stockings.
The public will not see them. If you go to the shoe store
to be fitted with new shoes, you will wear whole stockings.
But in the privacy of married life you think it makes no
difference. It does make a great difference, for thereby your
measure is quietly taken by your mate, and the slight sneer
is a straw that tells which way the wind blows.
Men's clothes go unmended, and are too often slouchy in
appearance and soiled on the surface. Dr. Johnson, who wrote
the dictionary, was a famous man, and his habit of separating
his soup so that part of it went into his mouth and the rest
over his clothes, was looked upon as one of the curiosities of
English literature. But it is not magnetic even with a dictionary
to endorse it. Most men wear soiled coats at the dining table
for the companionship of their wives, and they save their
clean coats for the companionship of their friends ;
like the
perfect lady who carried two handkerchiefs with her ; one for
show and the other for blow.
Women become very slack in the care of their underclothes,
allowing buttons to fall off and stay off, and depending on pins
for holding the apparel on. They look in a mirror, taking
front and back views, and if there is nothing wrong that the
public can behold, they are content to go forth into the out-
side world ; but when they are at home and less apparelled,
they bristle with pins in the presence of their husbands. Torn
clothing also is in view. The mending that is needed is post-
poned until the plot of the pending novel is carried past its
agonizing crisis. Then the wife wonders why her husband has
so little real affection and respect for her. Magnetism is
founded on facts, on practical sense, on good judgment and on
THE SIX SENSES (59
those better qualities of mind and heart that denote a superior
person.
" I was led to marry my husband because he seemed to
have grand ideas, and I thought he was as much of a man
as he made me believe he was," said a wife who walked out
of the house never to return. " I. found myself living with a
soil-smelling, evil-appearing, and shambling fellow that was
far below the standard he set in his speeches to me before
we were engaged."
All persons who wish to improve can do so. All that is
necessary at the start is to wish to improve.
The finer qualities of mind and heart can be cultivated,
for that has been the one impulse that has brought the world
to the better plane it now occupies.
The man who does not keep his shoes whole and polished,
or otherwise in good condition, is not refined. This seems a
trifling matter, but it has its influence over others. The soiled
collar, or the dirty shirt, or cuffs, or handkerchiefs, will also
have an influence over those who see them. There is no more
reason for a man going abroad with his shirt front smeared
than for his appearing in public with smear on the end of his
nose.
People may claim that they do not have time to keep clean.
They have an abundance of time, for they waste small periods
all day long, and have many opportunities morning, noon and
evening for the brief minutes that would suffice to maintain a
better condition of things. More than this, they are careless.
Let them be more graceful and less awkward in their move-
ments, and they will have less dirt to remove. The habit of
lifting fluids on a spoon to the mouth in such a way that part
of the fluid misses its destination, is inexcusable. These very
men, if they were throwing a cricket ball, would make a
reasonably good aim over a distance of seventy feet or so ;
and to say they cannot find the mouth that is less than two
feet away, is an error of calculation.
Clumsy, awkward people need to take up the study of
grace and refinement. A man is a gentleman because his
manners are gentle ; not because he was born of a family
that stands well in the community. If a woman is to choose
between a boor and a gentleman, all other things being equal,
70 SEX MAGNETISM
she will prefer the gentleman ten hundred times in a thousand.
Of course a man selects a wife because she is known as a
member of the " gentler sex." If she shall prove to be a
rampant, rough, inelegant woman, he is repelled by her ways
rather than attracted by them. No magnetism that can be
taught or acquired can overcome the influence of conditions
that drive away respect.
THE SENSE OF HEARING
It has already been explained in what ways the sense of
smell and the sense of sight may disintegrate magnetism, and
cause a separation instead of an amalgamation of the two
sexes.
The sense of hearing plays an important role in the same
regime.
This is confined largely to the use of the voice in conversa-
tion. There are disagreeable voices, and disagreeable words.
Of the two, the latter may be more direct and better met
than the former. All high pitches are unpleasant for the
reason that their vibrations double in number every second
of time as each octave is raised. A woman who uses a pitch
an octave too high, as most women do, will soon prove distress-
ing to the husband who must listen to her voice. Then the
habit of raising the pitch in conversation always excites the
flow of words, and she talks three times as fast as the man
would like.
He does not know the mechanical reasons for the harsh
effect on his ear and brain. All he knows is that her voice
is not as charming as once it was.
Such moods as seriousness, earnestness, calmness, sound
judgment and the like always lower the pitch of the voice
naturally. Pitch is not loudness or softness ; but is the place
of the voice in the musical scale. Thus a soprano voice is a
high pitch, and a bass voice is a low pitch. A tenor for a man
is too high for conversation, and a soprano for a woman is
likewise too high. An octave below should be cultivated.
There is no high-pitched voice of a man or woman in existence
that can carry magnetic tones ; there never has in the
THE SIX SENSES 71
history of the world ; and there never will be. Song tones
are magnetic under some circumstances ; but never speaking
tones when above a certain pitch.
Speed of talking is also distressing when much indulged
in. It evinces nervousness in the speaker, and arouses nervous-
ness and irritability in the hearer. There is a natural reason
for this effect. The tone of the voice is a vibration of the body
of the air which strikes the ear ;
and, in the course of an hour,
millions of these vibrations pound the sensitive nerve in the
brain. The latter becomes exhausted of its vital fluid, and this
depletion either induces sleep, or else irritation ;
generally
the latter. One continual tone will bring insanity or catalepsy
to the listener.
Each note in the scale of conversation or of song taxes the
brain power in a special way. Two notes, employed in the
same conversation or song, would only become half as exhaust-
ing to the brain of the listener as one note. Four different
notes would become only one-fourth as exhausting as one.
Thus, if a person were to converse in one note of the voice
for an hour, the wearying effect on the listener would be the
same as if that person talked with two notes for two hours,
or with four notes for four hours, or eight notes for eight
hours.
One note is often used by talkers, especially those who are
mere talkers, lacking magnetism, and the result is sure to
drive away all friends except those who remain friends for
policy and nothing more. A woman who wants to hear the
" news " from another woman will lay aside her dislike for
the woman and listen ;
then, after the talker has gone the
victim ejaculates " cat " and thus sizes up her supposed friend.
High pitch voices and rapid talking are wearying to those
who listen and also to those who talk. The effect is reflex on
the nervous system of the latter. Prostration follows to a
greater or less extent. Women who have doctored for this
loss of vitality, and have found a cure impossible, have at
length been told the plain truth ; and those who have not
been offended beyond repair, have adopted the advice of
experts and, having lowered their voices an octave and reduced
their speed to the limits demanded by magnetism, have found
a complete cure of supposed neurasthenia.
72 SEX MAGNETISM
The matter involved in the use of the voice in an unpleasant
way may or may not be disagreeable itself ; but is naturally
the offspring of a character suited to the tones employed.
You can set it down as certain that a woman who talks in
the high pitch has an unpleasant disposition. One who talks
rapidly may be merely nervous. Both characteristics are
opposed to magnetism.
THE SENSE OF TASTE
One would hardly believe that the use of this sense played
a part in the present study. It is an old saying that the way
to a man's heart is through his stomach ; meaning that the
woman who knows how to cook or has cooked for him the
dishes that are most appreciated by him, will win his affections.
But is this true ?
The work at hand is on the negative side in this chapter
and the sense of taste is to be discussed from the viewpoint
of being disagreeable. The wife is expected to kiss her
husband. Most wives prefer this, or to be kissed by their
husbands, rather than to omit this custom. But there is a
decided objection to the taste of tobacco on the male hps.
While refined men, or gentlemen, do not chew tobacco, many
smoke, and their lips are strong with the flavour of the cigar.
A man who really loves and appreciates his wife will refrain
from this habit. He may ask her if she objects to the taste of
tobacco ;
and she says " No " rather than offend him ; but the
fact is, she much prefers to have him stop his smoking. There
are wives who seek to keep their husbands at home in the
evenings by inducing them to smoke indoors rather than be
absent. They are sacrificing their own pleasure and some vera-
city in thus making the invitation. One woman says, " I tell
my husband that I feel unhappy when he is not smoking in the
house ;
and I would not for the world let him know that the
smell and taste of tobacco are disagreeable to me. If I had it
to do over again, I would marry a man who did not smoke."
On the other hand the wife may offend by being remiss
in her duty to have proper food set before him. Whether
she cooks it or not, she is the one person who is responsible
THE SIX SENSES 73
for the quality of the food that he must eat. He cannot
go into the kitchen himself. The wife has a right there, and
her duty to her home requires that she be there whenever
necessary.
There must be a morning meal for him. He has his work
to do and she has hers ; or, if she is above the need of toil,
she has still greater duties, and they consist in the manage-
ment of her home. To whatever extent she neglects this great
responsibility she must answer if not to him, then to her own
after life. Widows are becoming fotir times as numerous as
widowers. The dining-room is the great execution chamber
of modern civilization. Last week a personal friend died of
acute indigestion ; the week before, three prominent men in
one city died the same evening of acute indigestion ; and the
week before that two men died of the same cause in the same
city. In the past year the greatest percentage of any one cause
of mortality in the world was in the one malady, acute in-
digestion. There are not two men in any thousand whose
stomachs are in normal health. Some form of gastric derange-
ment is found in practically all men.
The wives are to blame.
There is nothing that will so irritate the mind and the
nerves as indigestion. It eats, cuts, scrapes, tears, pinches and
tortures the whole nervous system. No human being is so
well endowed with calmness and pose of temper that he can
withstand the agony of indigestion. The pain is blind. It
may not be present in the stomach ; but the man wonders
why he is so easily angered at trifles. He is not in a mood to
endure the least bit of trouble or annoyance. Many a husband
who has vowed never to speak a cross word to his wife has
been obliged to hold back the rising temper with both hands
on the reins. Then the wife seeks to know the cause, and
jumps at him for an explanation. One look, one thrusting
aside for a second, one ejaculation ; and the harmony of a
happy home is broken. The wife cries. The husband does
not know what made him cross. The wife has no way of
finding out. He may say that he does not feel well. She knows
that is true. He cannot tell her that the dinner has distressed
him, for he is not himself thinking of that as the cause. The
pastry was delicious, and the fried potatoes most agreeable ;
74 SEX MAGNETISM
while they were being eaten. The accounting to the stomach
is an after consideration in the matter of pleasure of this kind.
Except in acute forms, indigestion is blind. It hurts the
heart by the formation of toxins that cramp or stifle the action
of that organ. It may be known only as a heavy feeling some-
where. Or there may be difficulty in getting a deep breath ;
or heat in the head ; or a dizzy feeling ; almost everywhere
except in the stomach itself is the result felt.
If a wife undertakes to do the cooking she should adopt
only the plainest and most wholesome foods. Most women,
after failing in the bread, the toast and meat, will construct
a baking-powder cake of two-pound calibre, and rest on that
as the piece de resistance. This means that the husband must
forego all hope of having nutritive food for his meal, and
take his chances on " angel cake " or some other venture. If
the " angel cake " " falls " and he calls it " devil cake," which
is the synonym of " fallen angel," she will not understand his
felicitation, and war may be declared at once.
Of all the irritability in the home, ninety-nine per cent of
it would be eliminated if there were no indigestion ; if the
food were plain and wholesome ; and if the cooking were
proper. Many unkind remarks have been due to this one
cause. Many headaches, nameless pains, " blue " spells, dull
and gloomy hours, and quick retorts have had their origin in
the blind forms of stomach trouble. They are called blind
because they do not indicate where the trouble is. The
stomach may be wholly free from pain or distress and yet a
nervous, " touchy " feeling may take possession of the body
and mind.
The importance of mastering and preventing this condition
is at once seen, for there can be no content and no happiness
where there is irritability. The wife who is fretted has a hard
struggle to keep her temper in the presence of ordinary annoy-
ances ; but to add to her burden the irritability of her husband
who is suffering from indigestion is to place upon her a serious
handicap in the effort to smile and be philosophical. Wives
are human and cannot rise above a sea of discouragement.
The stomach of a person in good health may digest bad
cooking or foods that are unfit for nutrition, and yet the
nerves may be made very sensitive by the process. A person
THE SIX SENSES 75
may walk on tacks and arrive at his place of destination, but
his feet will be sore, and anything that scrapes the sore places
will disturb the even tenor of his mind. The same experience
as to the stomach occurs every day and every night. The
appetite is more keen at the evening meal, and more food is
desired ; the result being that there is more to be digested.
What should be the lightest meal of the day and should consist
of only the simplest foods, is turned into the heaviest repast
of the twenty-four hours. To this error is added wrong food
selection and cooking that interferes with digestion ;
furnishing
a combination that can have but one result : the setting up of
nervous irritability.
The man who is made irritable by blind indigestion is not
to blame for his condition. The fault is wholly the wife's.
She will not admit it. Most women when told that it is their
duty to study the laws of food selection and the proper way
of cooking food, or of having it cooked, become either angry
or sarcastic. They refer to all such suggestions as coming
from cranks. Here is the case of a most estimable lady whose
husband died quickly of acute indigestion due to her errors
in food selection. Even that event did not take the stupid
conceit out of her head. A year later a very dear friend died
at her table of acute indigestion ; and that event did not deter
her from her errors. Nothing could have the slightest influence
on her mind. Recently a grown son has died at her table of
acute indigestion, and still she cooks pies, pies, pies, and
serves them ; and she cooks hot bread, hot rolls, hot muffins,
and has them every day on her table. Three deaths are
traceable to her obstinacy, and it is certain that she does not
charge her conscience with any of them.
A wife whose husband had died of acute indigestion because
of pastry and fried foods, and hot bread, was told the cause
of the death. She got very angry and requested the informant
to mind her own business ; and the informant was a close
neighbour. Later on when a lady acquaintance fell dead of
acute indigestion at the very table where the husband had died,
the woman awoke. She has five children, and their faces
showed the pinching done by pie-crust and fried foods and hot
bread ; and now they are coming into better blood. This
woman is one in a thousand. You cannot move the 999 to
76 SEX MAGNETISM
remedy their food selection and their cooking, or to instruct
their cooks, if they have them, to change their methods. The
old ways are very firmly established, and no woman will take the
trouble to learn aright.
To this danger is added the adulteration of all foods, and
of almost all baking-powders ; and the fact that women to-day
prefer to prepare baking-powder food rather than get down
to the basis of the period when health was prevalent and
baking-powders were unknown.
Many husbands have tried to encourage their wives in the
study of the laws of food selection, only to be met with scoffing,
or scolding, or tears. Then that ends the discussion. Few
husbands will order the right thing to be done, even in their
own homes. They must eat what is set before them, and
they cannot have a voice in what they eat. They go forth
in the morning to earn the support of the family, and they
come to their meals in a spirit of meekness, accepting what
they get and letting nature work in them as best she can.
They have imperfect stomachs ; some of them have horrible
stomachs ; and there are many hundreds of thousands of men
to-day who are cross as bears, irritable and touchy, because
they suffer from indigestion due to wrong food selection and
bad cooking. The most attractive forms of cooking are almost
always the worst. It is a strange contradiction.
No person should live to eat.
The alluring pie-crust that looks and tastes so nice, breaks
up good blood and makes none in its place. Food is bad
enough when it will yield no nutrition ; but it is much worse
when it destroys the best elements of the blood.
Is the stomach the road to a man's heart ?
Here are two verdicts :
One husband says : "I married a woman because she could
make the most delicious cakes and pies. I thought she was
a fine cook. Before I was married I had never known what
it was to have indigestion. Since then I have suffered tortures,
have become ugly and profane, and I am at last rid of the
whole affair by separation."
Another husband says :
" Before I was married I boarded
at the home of a woman who was a good cook, but her cook-
ing kept me in a bad condition all the time. I laid the case
/
THESIXSENSES 77
before a young woman who had not been to a cooking school,
but who had studied in books the methods on selection of good
foods and of preparing them, and who had learned by practice
at home how to cook them. She told me that her father
and mother both had been cured of bad stomachs by the
sensible methods, and this pleased me. I was invited to call
and eat with them. This I did a number of times, and found
the change delightful. Our acquaintance ripened into
marriage ; and after a long period of happiness together we
have made up our minds that nothing on earth can ever
separate us " until death do us part."
This latter statement has the true ring.
Much as women hate to be told that their food selection
and cooking are for the most part on a line with the most
barbarous products of the minds of the dark ages, there are
now and then a few who wake up in time to save valuable
lives and thus do good in the world.
A few more such women are needed.
The marriage problem and the drink problem hinge more
largely on the diet question than on any other. It has been
proved that nearly all taste for alcoholic drinks follows in-
flammation of the stomach in an incipient form. When the
stomach is given only the plainest of foods cooked in the
simplest of ways, then the desire for liquor ceases. When
there is an absolutely normal health of the stomach, no man
or woman will care for liquor or stimulants in any form.
But when there is inflammation, however slight, in the lining
of the stomach, then it demands and will have its accustomed
alcoholic beverage. " My stomach is in first-class shape. I
can get along with cold water," said a man some months ago.
Later on after eating some hot rolls, fried meats, fried potatoes,
and new pie, he said, " I am on fire in my stomach. I have
not drank a drop for six months ; but if I do not get some
whiskey, and get it quick, I shall die." The fire of the hurt
stomach could be appeased only by the fire of the liquor.
This is the story of alcoholism to-day. It is not a theory, but
a fact, and the proofs of the fact are abundant.
The time will come when sensible women will be willing to
study the question of what foods and what kinds of cooking
cause indigestion. They would not take up this study if only
78 SEX MAGNETISM
the lives of their husbands were at stake, for it is not human
nature to profit by the lessons taught by death. But when
women learn, as they soon will have to learn, that the peace
and happiness of their own lives depend on the genial dis-
position of their husbands, and that a man with a case of
blind indigestion cannot long be genial no matter what tem-
perament has been given at birth, these women who cook
according to old standards will mend their ways in this respect.
Little pains are harder to endure than large ones. The
constant grinding at the vitality and nervous system by the
indigestibility of food will break up the peace of any family.
Religion itself staggers in a man's life at the inroads made on
his temper by this same enemy of modern times.
THE SENSE OF FEELING
By feeling as described in this chapter is meant the
physical uses of the body and all its parts. Much that might
have been included herein has already been discussed under
the sense of taste, referring to physical pain from indigestion.
But there are more direct causes of pain and discomfort that
are properly a part of this sense.
One of these causes is pain that arises from the drudgery
of severe work. The human body of a highly civilized being
was never intended for such drudgery. Distinctions in the
ranks of people are made for the purpose of providing the
labour that can endure the strain of hard work. While it is
true that every person, whether man or woman, should be
active as much of the time as possible, there is a broad difference
between activity and exhausting toil. Work is the only
accompaniment of happiness that can be found in this world.
But work should be suited to the class and grade of individual.
Physical work is essential, for all other kinds are merely
occupations of the mind. A man or woman who is physically
active eight hours in every twenty-four is laying the foundation
for a successful life and a serene old age.
In marriage there may be times when it is necessary for
a man or woman to do actual drudgery for a short time. This
is honourable, but it should not be performed as a daily duty.
THE SIX SENSES 79
The husband should spare the wife and the wife should spare
the husband. One of the smallest characteristics of a man is to
sit around the house in the evenings and on Sundays and permit
her to do many menial duties that he could do better, and
which would look better to an impartial observer if done by
him. It is wrong to allow a wife to do any physical task of a
menial kind that the husband can perform.
There is nothing in the evening paper that will benefit the
mind of the man ;
yet he thinks he must sit for several hours
and read it while the tired woman is hurrying about the house
trying to finish up her tasks, many of which he ought to attend
to. There can be nothing in his nature on which to found
Sex Magnetism as long as he will sit while she stands and
works. He may be tired with his labour of the day ; but she
has been at work also, and does for her size and strength more
than twice the real toil that he performs. The hours of the
artisan have been reduced, but not the hours of the wife.
She must have her turn now.
The man should treat his mate as a more delicate being than
himself. In some countries the husband yokes the wife with
a cow to a plough, and drives the pair all day long in the hot
sun over baked land. She has a decided pull in those countries.
But they savour of barbarism. In a refined age the wife should
be kept refined and her labours should be made light and of a
delicate nature. She should not be idle. There is enough to
keep her busy if she is loyal to her home ; and the most potent
influence that will induce loyalty is the mutual help and
constant assistance of her husband.
She never forgets his attentions and his aid.
If he can lighten her burdens, he ought to do so, and she
will render to him sooner or later the appreciation that he
deserves. As long as she has no hours of respite, he should have
none. His practice of spending the evenings away from home
is most reprehensible and the sooner he reforms this habit the
better it will be for his welfare and future happiness.
There are many physical attentions that the husband can
bestow on the wife, but that he omits after marriage. She of all
creatures likes to be caressed if she has any respect for him.
If he has faults that will repel a sensitive woman, then he
should overcome them and begin his courting days over again.
•
80 SEX MAGNETISM
The new regime should not be sudden, but by easy stages ; for a
sudden show of kindness might be taken as a joke. Many a
man has said in substance :
" You tell me to return to the
habits of the days when we courted. To do so, I must kiss and
embrace my wife, and talk to her in different tones from those
she is now accustomed to. A kind remark made as I would make
it to the girl to whom I was about to propose would choke in
my throat. I would like to try the experiment of putting my
arm around my wife's waist as she stands washing her dishes ;
but the fear of something after that deters me. How would she
take a kiss if I were to give her one on my return from work
some evening ? This is a fearful question."
It certainly was.
This man who had been educated at college and who had
settled down to a very commonplace life, voiced the feelings
of the great majority of married men when he gave utterance
to these views. But once the ice is broken the kiss will not be
taken as a joke, or the embrace as a shock ; nor will kind words
arouse a suspicion that he is planning some escapade, the
effect of which he desires to discount in advance. There was
another man who said to his wife, " Ellen, if I were to say to
you that I want to turn over a new leaf, that I have been
reading some things of late that makes me believe I do not
appreciate you as you deserve, would you be glad of it ? For
instance, if I were to kiss you as I leave for my office, and again
on my return, would the surprise be too great ? Would you
take it seriously ?
" She understood him, and they began their
courting days over again. It was a new life to the woman and
she showed it in her happier existence.
Gallantry is forgotten after marriage except when a third
party is around to witness it. A woman said truthfully, " I
am glad to have some one near by when I get in my carriage,
for my husband always helps me in then ; otherwise he lets
me get in the best way I can." This is merely an example of
the drift of human nature in wedlock.
There are scores of small attentions that can be paid to the
wife by the husband. One man said recently, " Frances, why
does my brother display so much gallantry to you ?
"
" Because you forget to do so," was the reply.
Look at a typical case of this exact kind :
THE SIX SENSES 81
There was a banker who had nearly twenty thousand
pounds more than he could ever spend. He had a wife who,
although she was forty, was as petite and charming as a girl.
He did not think she was in existence if his lack of personal
attention to her was to be taken as evidence. His brother, a
man about the age of the woman, spent a month at their
palatial residence and showed to his sister-in-law so much
attention in the presence of her husband that the latter opened
his eyes. " Why is it not my duty and privilege to bestow
on my wife as much personal attention as my brother is doing ?"
he asked.
It was a very vital inquiry.
While the absence of courtesies and gallantry is an error,
the rough use of a woman is still more reprehensible. A woman
should be treated as a lady until she has proved herself other-
wise. To hurry past her, to jolt her, to allow a crowd to press
against her, and the many little neglects that leave her to
herself in public when the gentle guidance of a gentleman is
needed for her comfort, is too often the experience of wedlock
after the new has worn off. Sometimes she is seen following her
husband making long strides to catch a street car. Sometimes
she is pushed along the pavement by persons passing in opposite
directions who elbow her, drive their corners into her ribs or
else attempt to turn her body in one direction and her head in
another in the scramble to get by.
Such cases are frequent.
She feels these neglects, no matter how much she gets used
to them. There are millions of wives to-day who have given up
all hope of receiving gentle care and attention from their
husbands ; but until the latter change about and become men
instead of rough boors, they will not be catalogued in the rank
of gentlemen.
THE SENSE OF KNOWLEDGE
The things and facts that a person is conscious of, apart from
the experience of the five usual senses, belong to the operation
of the sense of knowledge.
Husbands and wives should keep themselves informed of the
6
82 SEX MAGNETISM
many events that make up the lives of their mates. " The day
I was engaged," says a young man, " I thought of the many
dangers that might attend my fiancee's daily routine. I thought
of how many times she might go out of doors and be in peril
from passing horses, and of other exposures that might bring
risks to her. Since then I have seen how foolish I was to
entertain such groundless fears. Now she can cross the road
in front of trams and buses and I would not think of such
a thing as danger to her." At one time he was over-anxious ;
and at another time he had no anxiety at all.
Surely marriage makes a difference.
But to close the mind against the hopes, the wishes and the
fears of a wife, is not the way a husband should treat her.
Wives, as a rule, have a very definite knowledge of their
husband's most common failings and aspirations. But they do
not know one-tenth of what they ought to know. A reason for
this lack of knowledge is the unwillingness of both parties to
confide in each other.
There is wide distinction between questions prompted by
curiosity that pry into the doings of either party, and the
acquisition of knowledge of the inward moods of a husband or
wife. When questions are asked, there is a suspicion that there
is mistrust behind them. In good form, socially speaking, it is
not allowable to ask questions. The man or woman who tries
to be sociable and interesting in conversation by propelling a
lot of questions at a visitor, is soon dropped. At times a
meaningless inquiry may start a ball rolling in talk, and thus
help to make the conversation easy ; but the questions are not
of moment. It is proper to ask, " How do you do ?
" But it is
not proper to ask, " Are you quite well ?
" Nor is it proper to
ask, " How is business ?
" Or anything about Jones, or Smith,
or Brown, or others. Statements should be made. They should
belong to subjects of public and not of private interest. In the
best society where brains and sense prevail, these things are
regulated very readily.
The same rule applies to husband and wife.
Questions are annoying and generally useless. If either
party has something to tell the other, it is best to tell it, and it
is a good trait for the other to listen and receive all the informa-
tion that is volunteered. It is generally the habit of a wife to
THE SIX SENSES 83
try to inform her husband of the many experiences of the day ;
but he does not care so much for them as for the standing of
the football clubs, and she soon grows tired of talking to him of
her doings. Now he makes a serious mistake to avoid hearing
all she has to say. If she is gossiping about a neighbour, let him
note some piece of work on which she has been engaged, and
soon she will begin to explain to him all about it. This pleases
her, and she is proud of having such an audience.
In this method the husband becomes diplomatic.
He has not asked any questions. He may have said, " This
is pretty," as he takes up some work she has done in sewing or
embroidery. That is enough. She will do the rest for a while.
Of course this is merely a sample of the way in which he may
proceed in any line of thought.
It is surprising to know how many small matters there are
connected with each that the other may express an interest in.
The time ought to come when the model husband will know
every dress and hat that the wife possesses ; and the condition
and newness or age of each and all of them. He should have
an opinion as to her modes of dress and her taste. Then her
duties ought to be the subject of pleasant congratulation.
There need not be a running fire of statements, nor a close
connection between one subject and another. It is enough
that at least one thing is talked of each evening that shows him
to be interested in her and her work and efforts.
The adverse criticisms should be omitted. If affirmative
praise cannot be given, avoid the subject. If some better way
can be devised, let it be done in a manner that will not cause
a feeling of discouragement in her mind. If she has been reading
a magazine, take it up when she has got through with it, and
note some fact in it. Or if she has been engaged in study, let
that be talked over to some extent. The thing to omit is
segregation ; or taking yourself behind a paper and remaining
in hiding for hours each evening, while the wife may be but a
few feet away, lonesome and lost. The same habit at a dining
table is wrong. Some men eat and read the paper at the same
time ;
they do not assist the others at the table, do not help to
make others comfortable, and shut off their society from all
about them, behind a paper. The whole contents of the daily
newspaper is of little value. If you go away for six months and
84 SEX MAGNETISM
then return and take up all the papers to review, you will be
nauseated by their headlines and contents. The nervous,
fidgety unrest that prompts a man to want something to interest
him all the time, is a low condition of the mind and heart.
In the presence of company before whom you wish to
appear refined, you would not read a paper while at the table
during a meal ; and what is good enough conduct for a stranger
is none too good for your wife.
It is at the lull in the work when you are privileged to be
in her society in the dining-room that you have the oppor-
tunity to cultivate in yourself the graces of a better conduct,
and the companionship of one who should be dearer to you
than the sensational news of the day.
The rule is, ascertain without the use of questions all you
can of your wife's wishes, of her hopes, of her fears, of her
ambitions, of her pleasures, and of her daily duties and progress.
Know her as she is. Do not make the effort all at once after
years of neglect ; let any new regime come gradually so as not
to attract attention and lead to ridicule. It will seem funny
to her to find you something like yourself in the days of court-
ship.
The wife naturally drinks in and absorbs these things about
her husband. Partly by instinct and partly by her nature she
learns to know her mate better than he learns to know her.
But not ten per cent of the full knowledge is passed between
them that ought to be rendered ;
and, for this reason, it is
well for them to begin little by little to confide in each other
all there is in the mind and heart that can be of interest. It
is not best to interfere with the duties of either by interposing
these things ; but there are moments, as at the dining-table,
and when they are not tied down to work, then they can speak
of the things that impart a better knowledge of each other. If
the husband is in business, the wife should know of any dangers
to his credit, for her words of confidence to the woman who
may drop in to see her might bring on the bankruptcy of her
husband. We regret to say that this has occurred a number
of times to our knowledge. Some remark dropped by a husband
to his wife, such as the statement that he had a note to meet
in a few days and he would have to hurry to get the money,
has been repeated by the wife to a visitor to whom she said
THE SIX SENSES 85
that her husband had a note to meet and he did not know
how he could pay it ; a trifling variation that means nothing
to the woman who repeats it. The visitor went forth and told
her lady friend that the man could not pay his note ; the lady
friend told the wife of the creditor that the man would not be
able to pay his note. This brought alarm to the holder of
the note, and the result was a run on the business of the man
and his failure and bankruptcy.
It is not an isolated case.
More than one husband has been deprived of the credit and
confidence of business by the careless remarks of his wife.
The latter has lived to suffer because of the results. Nothing
she could do or say would mend the broken vase. All panics
are begun in this way ; not by wives in most cases ; but by
some careless remark that has been set in circulation and
magnified as it sped on its journey. In the greatest of recent
panics, one woman spoke of the fear she had as to her deposits
in a trust company. Another woman who had larger deposits
in the same company took up the alarm and withdrew from
it all her funds, and carried the news to others. In three hours
people began to line up and take away their money. The
powder was everywhere dry and needed only the application
of a little fire and some wind to create the conflagration that
covered the nation. In another panic which resulted in a run
on a bank, the officials issued a statement which was endorsed
by an official of the United States, saying that a woman had
called to collect a cheque which was not drawn on that bank,
but on another of nearly the same name in one part. The
cashier, instead of informing her what bank the cheque was
drawn on, merely replied, "No funds." She could have read
the reason why in the face of the cheque itself. But she went
back to work in an office where there were hundreds of clerks,
many of whom had money in the same bank ; and she told
them that they would not get their money there as the bank
had no funds. Before the people awoke to the facts, nearly
five hundred thousand pounds had been taken out.
Of course the man or woman who will assist in making
a run on a bank has not even the first, primitive knowledge
or fitness for doing business there or anywhere else.
The public, not only in masses and mobs, but in the sup-
86 SEX MAGNETISM
posedly more sensible classes who are able to deposit money
in banks, lose their heads, and in so doing add to the damage
that they themselves must suffer when they run amok.
But the question arises whether a husband should conceal
all things from his wife because she may not be able to contain
the least bit of information as to his business. If he tells her
he is prospering, she will need the new dress and hat much
sooner than otherwise ; and if he tells her he is not able to
buy them, she may confide in some woman who lives on the
same row the fact that her husband is having a hard time in
his business. It would be better if an allowance were made
her every month for all purposes.
The successes and depressions in business ought to be
confided in the wife, but she should be a woman who has no
confidants except her husband. The importance of this rule
should be made clear to her, with the reasons for its strict
observance.
It can hardly be assumed that she is unworthy of business
secrets. When she feels the honour of being given them for
safe holding she will not drop the careless remark that might
undo the business of her husband.
But apart from this line of confidence, there are many
personal views, many personal hopes, wishes, fears, desires,
prospects and plans that enter into his life of which she generally
knows nothing. Without waiting for her to ask, it is better
for him to mention some of them from time to time, if she
shows a disposition to listen. It is by such methods that she
will come closer to him ;
and, in the same way, she can bring
him close to her. There must not be a schedule conference for
the purpose. Some wives have no tact ; for instance the woman
who starts in saying after the evening meal is over :
" Come,
Fred, I have a lot of things to tell you," and he finds not one
of them of any moment, so he takes it as an exaggeration and
passes his mind on to other things. The way to do is to let some
bit of information come in edgewise, as it were, like a wish,
or a statement that does not displace any attention in other
matters.
Complaints, criticisms, questions, adverse reports, and the
darker side of one's thoughts and feelings, should be omitted
whenever possible. No woman likes to hear all the time the
THESIXSENSES 87
ailments of her husband, unless he has one worthy of attention.
Of all his pains and ill feelings there is not one that will not
yield to sensible habits of diet. He suffers either at the stomach,
or in his liver, or nerves, or has a pain in the head, or is irritable ;
all of which are due to bad food selection and modern cooking.
So there is no use talking about a condition that neither party
is trying to remedy. Some day this error of diet will take her
off, or take him off ; and even then the survivor will not seek
a remedy. It is like the table of fine pictures ; a child was
allowed to overturn the ink on one of them, and great effort
and expense followed in the attempt to clean it. As soon as
it was in fair shape, the child was allowed to tip over the ink
on another valuable and beautiful picture. Again the doctor
of pictures was given the case, and money was spent freely in
curing the results of the stain. When this was effected, the
child was allowed to tip over the ink on a third picture that
was valuable and beautiful. So this process was continued all
through the year and year after year. All their spare money
went out to remedy the damage being done to the pictures.
The picture-doctor did not complain, because he was receiving
an income from the habit. One day the woman said, " Frank,
what do you think of the idea to stop the child from tipping
ink over on the pictures ? Would it not save expense, worry,
and trouble ? You seem to have spent money and wasted
time in getting these damaged pictures cleaned up, and they
are never so good after the cure as they were before. How
would it do to stop the baby from turning the ink over on
them ?
"
The husband scratched his head, rubbed his forehead, and
a ray of intelligence came into his eyes. " Mabel," he said in
excitement, " You are a great woman. We will stop the baby
at once."
Now, the baby in this case of simile is merely the habit of
neglect ; the pictures are the human body ; the repairer is
the physician ; and the husband and wife are the ones who pay
the bills, suffer self-denial, and have the hard luck that generally
follows unnecessary sickness. The one thing for the mind to
find out is that the source of any illness can be ascertained, the
running cause can be checked, and the cure made unnecessary
by withdrawing the trouble at the fountain head.
88 SEX MAGNETISM
A complaining person is lacking in magnetism. There are
so many complaining persons at large that the man or woman
who has the good judgment to get cured and to stay cured will
hold the advantage in all dealings with the world.
There are two steps in this fault
1. The permitting of sickness to enter the home, or become
a part of the life of the individual.
2. The disposition to talk about the ill condition of the
body.
The sense that knowledge should be employed in lines of
usefulness and with good judgment. It is not useful to talk
of complaints, either to visitors or to husband and wife. Some
callers are spotted in advance of their coming, and the " Not
at home " response is often made because the call means the
rehearsal of all the illness that a bad system of living has
catalogued in one woman's system. " Mrs. Catlet is coming,
and I am not at home. I do not want to know the state of her
liver, and I take no interest in her duodenum. Her stomach
has gastritis, but I did not do it. She has bronchial troubles,
spinal troubles, heartburn, colonitis, and some other unmen-
tionable failings, all of which will make up the visit."
This is a common condition in all branches of life. Poor
people bemoan their ill luck instead of turning the vitality
of their minds to making something better for themselves.
Those in the middle ranks pretend to be in better circumstances
than they really are, and they spend their time when making
calls in exploiting all their ills and physical failings, unless
there is a bit of news worth telling.
What is in bad taste with callers is equally bad between
husband and wife, for it is wrong of itself, no matter where
and when. If there is sickness, there is a fault somewhere
which needs mending, and the co-operation of both parties in
devising methods of putting an end to the trouble is praise-
worthy. Bright things should make up the home talk ; and
it is better to have substantial ideas to talk about. Idle noth-
ings said pleasantly are no more substance than are the steam
and vapour of viands.
Nothing thrives so poorly as emptiness.
Nothing is so unmagnetic as pain, suffering, sickness, dis-
agreeable subjects and complaining tones. These must all
THE SIX SENSES 89
be swept away before magnetism of any kind can begin.
No person pretends to believe that unpleasant things will
attract the goodwill of another. They not only fail to attract,
but also actually take the opposite course ;
they repel.
The husband who depends on the fact that his wife is
bonded to him for life and that she must therefore listen to
him, endure him, work and slave for him, make herself abject
and humble before him, put up with his numerous failings
and uncouth qualities rather than break away from the whole
disagreeable relationship, might have pinned his faith on such
dependence in the days when women were in the legal class
of underlings ; but to-day there is a very short step between
her condition of degradation and freedom. She is taking that
step in numbers that are appalling. Ere long the husband will
hold the wife by some attraction, and not by force of the
marriage relationship.
What that attraction is will be known as Sex Magnetism
in one of its phases.
There are many men, in fact hundreds of thousands of
men, who have no inducement held out to their wives to remain
at home except the mere chance of being supported, supposedly
of being clothed, fed and housed. Against this meagre asset
are placed all the unattractive conditions made by the men
themselves. There must be a complete change in methods, or
wives will vanish out of the homes to remain out for ever.
Where is the woman who, while pinched by poverty or the
lack of the ordinary comforts of daily life, is willing to stay in
such place a day longer than she is compelled to, when the
carelessness or indifference of the husband may drag her still
lower by forcing children on her that the home has no place
for, and the purse cannot properly feed %
The majority of husbands have some of the brute in them ;
and a large minority have almost nothing else but the brute
in them. To that minority an appeal is useless in this genera-
tion. It may be lessened by decreasing the conditions that
make such qualities possible and logical.
But to the men who, while not brutal, are neglectful of
their wives, who spend their time, their surplus thought and
their money away from home, when they are not at work,
and who do not offer one genuine personal attention after the
90 SEX MAGNETISM
first few months of the marriage, an influence may go out
that will help them to attract instead of repel their wives.
On the other hand, the women who depend on the bondage
of wedlock to hold the relationship intact, and who do not
try to furnish meals that will bring health instead of pain and
irritability to their husbands, or who are indifferent to the
management of their homes, will very soon cease to be attrac-
tive. Simple and practical as it is, and devoid of all semblance
of romance, it is nevertheless the greatest fact of life that the
food that is eaten makes or unmakes the human body. A man
is what he eats. He must have the right kind of food, selected
by the right kind of knowledge, and cooked in the right way.
The modern wife learns at home to make new bread, cakes,
pastry, puddings, all kinds of rich things and whatever is
indigestible and barbaric, under the belief that the way to a
man's heart is through his stomach. In this she is wrong.
The boarding-house keeper who fed her boarders on the richest
kind of food made money because she ruined their appetites
and tore their stomachs to tatters, so to speak.
The practical and permanent way to a man's heart is to
make home a place of comfort to him ; and the first step in this
direction is to give him freedom from the discomforts, pains and
irritability of indigestion. He will be what he eats. Plain food,
simple food, cooked in an attractive manner will soon prove
that the way to a man's adoration of a woman is through the
good health she can give him. There is but one synonym for the
condition of hell in physical life, and that is modern food
selection and modern cooking.
It seems a matter unworthy of a book like this ; but it is the
crucial point between misery and happiness.
Now most wives are unwilling to even give the matter a
thought, and they wonder why they have ugly husbands who
prefer any place to home. Say what you will, the wife who
wants her husband to remain at home, can attract him there
if she chooses to make the effort. But smiles will not do it
pleasant tones of voice will not do it ;
having his slippers at
his feet will not do it ;
mending his torn clothes, catering to
his wishes, being solicitous about his well-being, and the artifices
that most women adopt for effect, will not do it ; because all the
attentions of a wife eager to please will not fight down or drive
THE SIX SENSES 91
out of his existence that inflamed stomach that she has been
developing for him by her ignorance or indifference to the one
most vital problem of married life to-day.
When will women wake up ?
Will it be to-morrow, or the next day, or the next year ?
The wife who wakes up first in this revolution will be the
first to reap the reward. A man's nature leaps as out of the
darkness into the daylight with the return of that healthful
feeling that attends good digestion. He seems to be a new
man all at once.
Do not make the mistake to adopt some freak fad in food
selection or some silly nut-schedule, or other unusual thing.
In the lists of plain foods there are many things that are suited
to the stomach, that have been used for generations, and that
held sway until the modern French chef began to tell us how
to break down the stomach. There is not the slightest trouble
in finding what is right and how to get and prepare it, when
once the wife makes up her mind to reform the habits of her
kitchen. A few simple articles of food, costing less than one-
third of what is now paid for groceries and provisions, will
bring health. If the husband denies his indigestion, which he
may do in all honesty, for it is blind in its first years, then let
him be educated up to the standard set in this work. If you, a
wife, have this instruction, he will have access to it. He may
sneer at it for a while ; but there is a way to invite him to
peruse its pages without thrusting them at him to his annoyance.
His stomach condition may make him " touchy " on this
subject as on others.
Men are going to break away from the ties of marriage with
great ease in the near future. The courts cannot compel them
to support their wives unless they can reach them. In U.S.A.
no State court has inter-state jurisdiction. It is estimated
that to-day there are more than one million husbands who
are still legally married, but who have gone out of their
States in order to evade the courts, and who will not live
with their wives. They do not seek divorces, but rest.
A great business man said, " If all the men who will not stay
with their wives were to be jailed for non-support, the manu-
factures of the land would be crippled." A judge said, " I am
of the opinion that the real fault is with the wives, but I must
92 SEX MAGNETISM
obey the statutes and order husbands to support their wives."
A man said who voiced the opinion of these run-away husbands,
of whom he was one, " I want to live where I can have my meals
properly prepared. What is the use of a man dragging himself
out all the time just to pay for stuff that no stomach can turn
over ?
"
The conclusions reached at the threshold of this study are
as follows :
1 . There must be an attractive force in the man who wishes
to retain his wife at home or in the marriage relationship, even
if he does not choose to make her supremely happy.
2. There must be an attractive force in the woman who
wishes to retain her husband at home or in the marriage
relationship, even if she does not choose to add to his content-
ment and pleasure.
3. There must be something more than a mere attractive
force in the man who seeks to make his wife supremely happy
and exalt her state as a wife.
4. There must be something more than a mere attractive
force in the woman who seeks to make her husband supremely
happy and give him the bliss which he once thought would
come to him with her.
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE
COMING up out of the valley of a disagreeable discussion
into the uplands of a wider and more pleasing realm, we
will proceed to state the laws that are established by nature for
the benefit and the blessing of marriage. Before they are out-
lined, there should be a clear understanding of the framework
of this system of training. It is not a drifting course, but one
fixed in the immutable designs of nature herself and the clearly
shown purposes of creation.
In all the systems that have been put into form of printed
instruction during the past thirty years, there is not one that
has a more certain character than Sex Magnetism. It contains
every possible means of assistance to men and women who
need such aid. It has a basis as strong as the foundations of the
solid mountain. On this basis is set a law as full of vitality as
nature herself. Above this law is a superstructure as logical
in its meaning and value as the castle that holds a kingdom
in safety.
Such is Sex Magnetism.
It is not one and the same power with both sexes ; but is
so made that it operates in one way for woman and in another
way for man. It differs for those who are not yet betrothed
from its uses when the betrothal is announced. Then again it
changes its operative force after marriage. It has its uses for
those who are not married and are free from the desire to enter
that state. Yet through all these phases there is one direct
purpose at work to achieve a certain end.
STEPS IN THE PLAN
1. There is, in the first step, the man who lacks the
attractive force.
2. There is, in the second step, the woman who has never
yet had or who now lacks the same quality.
98
94 SEX MAGNETISM
3. There is, in the third step, the man who possesses the
attractive force, having added it purposely or instinctively.
4. There is, in the fourth step, the woman who possesses the
attractive force, having also added it.
5. There is, in the fifth step, the man who possesses some-
thing more than the mere attractive force, which has already
been referred to.
6. There is, in the sixth step, the woman who possesses
something more than mere attractive force.
7. What has been called the attractive force is that impulse
taught by nature and explained in the first chapter of this
book, which causes a man or woman to seek every possible
way of self improvement in order to attract one of the
opposite sex.
8. Prior to the birth of such impulse there is in the non-
regnum period of every man and woman a partial or total
absence of the attractive force which has been described above.
9. There is also after the consent to marriage has been won,
a partial or almost total lessening of the same force of attraction.
10. After marriage there is a further lessening of the
attractive force if any of it was left when the ceremony was
performed.
THE AFFIRMATIVE PLAN
L Under the influence of Sex Magnetism it is necessary to
restore the attractive force in its full degree in the man, whether
it is restored in the woman or not.
2. Under the same influence it is necessary to restore the
attractive force in the woman, regardless of the man. These
two rules imply that the man or woman are not in the same
acquaintance. They mean that any man must build up that
force, and any woman must do the same thing ; and that it is
immaterial whether the opposite sex shall do it or not with
relation to the other man or woman involved. It is enough for
two if the husband has that force ; and it is enough for two if
the wife has it.
3. As the attractive force in one sex is not exactly the same
force as that possessed by the other sex, it is important that
the true uses of this power be understood.
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 95
4. When this attractive force has been restored, it should
be increased beyond the instinctive demands of nature. This
means that there should be something more done to build up
an attractive character than is done blindly.
5. This force in its highest degree must hold sway all through
the marriage. It served its instinctive purpose when it brought
the two sexes to an agreement ; but that was not enough.
6. Whether there is marriage or not, every man and
woman should possess this extra high degree of the attractive
force.
7. In addition to the extra high degree there should be added
the direct power of Sex Magnetism as a still greater influence to
compel the most complete and satisfying results of the relation-
ship.
Two remarkable facts should be reviewed at this time :
1. The instinctive attractive force is ordained by nature.
2. The reception of the added power of Sex Magnetism is
encouraged by nature.
The following tendencies are repeated here in another form
so that they may be made more prominent in the mind of the
reader
1. Prior to the awakening of an interest in the opposite sex,
there is no impulse toward using the attractive force.
2. After this force has done its work, the tendency is to
lapse back to the state of former indifference ; but not to the
full condition then prevailing.
3. The difference between the former state and that which
follows the lapse is the net improvement of the individual.
4. The sum total of the individual instances of improvement
represents the advance that civilization has made. Slight
though it may be, it is something.
It has been asserted and proved in many ways that civiliza-
tion in this way, and in no other way, makes its progress ; and
thus we see the reason why two sexes are established instead
of one.
Before proceeding with this study it is necessary to review
all the statements made in the first chapter of this book. It is
important that the philosophy of progress should be understood,
96 SEX MAGNETISM
as well as the meaning of the sex forms of life. It is a grand
thought that nature should intend to advance the race and the
earth, that the past is less and the future is greater than the
present, and that this will so continue until the plan of creation,
as far as this part of it is concerned, is fulfilled and brought to
the climax set for it from the foundations of all eternity.
In the absence of the sexes there could be no progress.
Selection and the survival of the fittest would be inoperative
laws, lacking the channels of activity. Variation could not
take place, for there would be no mixing of individualities in
reproduction.
Variation is the soul of progress.
Having reviewed all that is stated in the first chapter, the
work now ahead is to grasp the meaning of the term, " at-
tractive force," which has been so much used herein.
There is a well-defined reason why a man should seek to
make himself attractive to a woman whom he wishes to win.
On the same ground the woman has a reason for wishing to
make herself attractive to the man she wishes to win. There
is very little deliberation of an insincere kind in this attempt
at improvement. It has come down to the human species from
the other species that have preceded. We have cited the cases
of the birds in the forest, the better plumage, the better song
voices and the abler bodies have won against all lesser speci-
mens. Humanity is driven on by the same nature.
The attractive force makes itself manifest through different
channels and in different ways as the race progresses. Once
the better mind would not be considered a point of superiority ;
and it is not so regarded to-day except where it bears practical
fruit. Book learning in either sex is not an agency of attrac-
tion. Education may have its drawing qualities among the
educated classes, for a trained mind will not be contented with
one that is ignorant. The woman who speaks grammatically
and spells correctly will not be impressed by a man who is very
backward in these accomplishments unless he has other qualities
in excess to overcome such handicap.
A highly educated man may take a very pretty woman who
rakes English fore and aft ; because he thinks he can educate
her in the privacy of married life. A highly educated woman
may take a man of wealth who is unable to recognize the differ-
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 97
ence between nouns and fractions, because she believes that
she can give him some polish in their spare moments. But, on
the other hand, where these extra inducements are lacking, a
highly educated man may delay proposing to an ignorant
woman until she has had her ambition stimulated to the point
of learning how to use grammar and to spell ; and a highly
educated woman who is sought by an ignorant lover, may let
him know that she appreciates a knowledge of grammar and
the use of the art of spelling ;
and, if he really cares for her as
he should, he will set to work and master these branches. It is
possible that no other power on earth could so influence him.
But for the holding back of the woman, the man might remain
ignorant all his life. When he has made the start towards an
education he may keep along for years. He certainly could
be swayed to any possible extent as long as she holds him back.
But if she accepts him, even on the condition that he learns
these things, the impulse has gone. Nature steps aside as soon
as the consent has been given, for the purpose of nature is to
bring the two sexes into an agreement.
Now notice how weak is the agreement and the impulse
when the man has no trouble in winning the woman, or the
woman has no difficulty in bringing the man to her heart. Then
notice how shabby is that betrothal where the couple, on brief
acquaintance, agree to marry and proceed at once with the
privileges that pertain to wedlock. She is, prima facie, un-
chaste, and he is of her class. There is no attractive force in
this animal agreement. Notice how weak is that relationship
where the man, meeting the woman without introduction, call-
ing at her home on her invitation, being refused certain favours
until they are married, being wed very soon, and attempting to
make marriage a success. There are cases where such couples
have lived together, but no one of them has ever appreciated
the other or held the sex in respect.
It is hardly fair to the students of these pages to assume that
such couples have any standing in this work of building a happy
life through Sex Magnetism.
The one great thing to be desired is the development of the
attractive force. That cannot take place unless there is a
period of friendship in which both parties are in doubt as to
the minds and hearts of each other. This is necessary. The
98 SEX MAGNETISM
longer that period lasts the greater will be the development.
In the time when a term of years was made essential to an
engagement or betrothal, conditioned on the qualification of
the male, the result was a race of gentlemen.
When a woman thinks she is being observed by some man
she admires, she makes every effort to look her best. If an
acquaintance and friendship follow, she will try to appear
beautiful as the first step. But if she is not able to succeed in
this direction, she will shift to the effort to appear pleasing,
which is beautiful in manner and speech. The next garnish-
ment will be intelligence. Much will depend on the character
of the man. If he is a school teacher, and she is uneducated,
or has a very limited education, she will not attempt to talk
much. Her face, dress and manner will then be made as
attractive as possible. Where a woman has very little to
match the accomplishments of the man, she will pose as having
been deprived of the advantages of other girls, and will make the
confession in all humbleness, thinking to arouse his sympathy.
It requires tact to hold a man by such methods. Beauty of
face and of manner take the place of much ; but a man of good
judgment will not be swayed far beyond a plumb line by them.
Love falls down before the elements that are unattractive.
Added to the above efforts to seem pleasing, will be the
usual neatness of dress and of hair, cleanliness of face and
hands, and a general sweetness of body. No department of
her being that can be exposed to any of the senses will suffer
neglect. Even if no engagement follows, she will not be the loser
by this advance in her refinement. She will be a better woman
for the experience.
The man when he has met a woman whom he would like to
marry will make similar efforts, but along lines suited to his
sex. The first idea that will occur to him is, will the woman
think him handsome ? To get some help on this problem, he
will look in the mirror often and at all places where he can find
such an article. When a woman glances at herself in a mirror,
she wants to know how she will appear to men who may see her.
If she knows she is homely, she will let the mirror alone. When
a man looks in a public mirror, he is in love, or else is vain
beyond pardon.
If he seeks the admiration of an educated woman, he will
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 99
talk as little as possible on subjects that he knows nothing
about. If he is not handsome, he will wonder if she cares for
a manly man, and if he thinks she does, he will straighten up
and look much more ferocious than he is. But the first true
sign of love having come into the heart of a man is the care
with which he has his shoes shined. They become bright and
reflect all the good things in the sky and scenery about him.
" Henry is in love," said a business man in speaking of a
clerk who had been in his employ for several years. " How
do you know ?
" was the response. " Because he is polishing
his shoes, and that is something that he has not done for a
long time except when they are very dingy." " Look here,
Henry," said the other, " I hear that you are in love. Has
she accepted you yet ?
" " Dear me, no, not yet. She does
not know I love her. I am hoping for the best, sir."
All men in love, until they are accepted, make themselves
neater, gentler, more pleasing in speech and manner, and more
progressive in every way that may have an influence on the
woman desired.
Now come to the marriage state.
The first thing to do, ere this is considered, is to review the
second and third chapters of this book. In the second chapter
the basic laws must be read until they are fully understood,
for they tell the negative story of humanity. They show how
far both sexes have fallen from that period of effort when
they tried to be attractive to each other. Where is there an
attempt to build a home or restrict the expenditures so
that the earnings may exceed them and an excess be laid
aside ?
But the third chapter, in its discussion of the six senses,
shows something more, over which we would like to drop the
curtain of charity could it be done and this work proceed.
Answer, if you will, the following questions :
1 . To-day to what extent are you clean in body, hair, eyes,
ears, nose, mouth, teeth, neck, chest, armpits, loins, legs,
ankles and feet ?
2. To what extent are your underclothes clean, and your
outer clothes neat and tidy ?
3. Is your speech careful, well-chosen, pleasing and
attractive ?
100 SEX MAGNETISM
4. To what extent are you well-mannered, observing the
accepted laws of etiquette, taking pains to be polite to every-
body even in the privacy of your home and the outward side
of your life ?
5. To what extent are you refined, polished, and gentle in
your conduct and words ?
6. Are you constantly seeking to aid and sympathize with
the one you have professed to love, co-operating in every way
to make all duties and tasks easier, and fill every day full of
comfort and happiness ?
7. For the sake of that person have you added anything
to your mental qualifications, increasing your intelligence,
building up character, and taking on a higher stature ?
8. Have you made your hands more skilled, and developed
your faculties in order to be a more useful helpmate ?
9. Do you keep informed of every wish, hope, fear, am-
bition and duty that enters into the heart of that person ?
10. How much time in every twenty-four hours do you
turn into selfish uses that might just as easily be devoted to
the companionship of that person ?
11. Have you read carefully the third chapter of this
book, and have you, as measured by the standards set therein,
taken an account of stock of yourself in every detail of that
chapter as far as it may apply to you ?
12. Do you recall the period of courtship ? In that period
did you display more attractive qualities than you now show
in your daily life ? Can you be perfectly frank in making
reply to this inquiry, or is it your desire to evade the matter
and try to make yourself believe that you are still as attractive
as you thought you were then ?
Nature had a purpose in impelling you to attract the other
sex in the period of doubt when first you evinced an interest
in another. Not alone to win or be won, but to make a new
standard of excellence for yourself. Nature felt sure that it
was then or never ; if you would not improve at that time you
never would improve. This is true philosophy.
If you are married, go back to the third chapter and read
all about the six senses, and make a written note of every
instance in which you can better your habits. You may say
the other sex is not worth it. The request is not made for the
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 101
benefit of the other sex, but solely for your own good. You
have possibly become yoked to a person whom you despise,
or over whom you exalt yourself as far more worthy ; but
remember that private opinions of others are reflections in the
mirror of your own life.
If you despise the other sex, never mind that ;
get the
advantage that will come from your own improvement. If
nature sought to make you better by taking advantage of the
time when you could be induced to try to rise, why not adopt
the same principle at another time and rise in spite of the
lack of inducement as far as the other sex is concerned.
Study all that is said of the sense of smell in the third
chapter and then apply it to yourself. In case of doubt,
give the benefit not to your own conceit but to the sense
itself. Make all defective habits into perfect habits. It
may take some effort, but remember that physical activity
brings perfect health and long life, as well as good fortune in
every way.
Then the sense of sight should be gone over in that third
chapter and an inventory taken of your shortcomings. Be
honest with yourself. You may cover up and deceive your
outside acquaintances, but not your own honest self. There
are scores of ways in which you can improve in this one line
alone ; and if you find less than sixty defects in your methods
in this regard, go back over the whole list until you get them
all. Then, even if you do not care for the other sex, go to
work for your own good and make a perfect record in the
change.
There are the other senses likewise to be reviewed in the
third chapter, and you must be faithful in the reading of
them in the ability to discover the neglects. You may
perhaps be in a position to hide some things even from your
consort, but that must not be your guide. Hide nothing from
yourself.
Finally there is the sense of knowledge. The discussion of
it contains many things that are needed in your life. Change
bad habits and adopt those that will improve you. All
magnetism may be acquired in this way.
Now it is not asked of you to become impractical. Ideal
existence is not possible. Nothing like the ideal is sought.
102 SEX MAGNETISM
You are requested to put yourself just where you were when
you began your courtship, and where you were in personal
habits in the first twenty-four hours of marriage, if you had
any refinement at all. Remember that civilization is at
stake. No one person can do much to advance the race ; but
a hundred million persons can assist it to make great strides
in a few years.
There are teachings that tell of the excellence of a higher
mode of thinking and living ; of self-denial beyond all endurance
to add to the exaltation of man or woman. Such ideals are
not taught here. Keep down to the useful and the practical.
They are good enough. Take the measure of what you are
aiming to do from the measure set by nature during courtship.
You then tried to make the other sex believe that you were
better than your past habits gave warrant ; now try to make
yourself see, in fact, that you can be better than you were
yesterday.
Cleanliness and neatness in clothing, in the body itself and
under all circumstances, are traits of character that cannot be
improved, without at the same time improving the power
within you that impels them. These are certainly practical. Is
your underclothing and your under-condition such that, in
case of accident and you were exposed, the public or the doctors
would find you just as you would like to be found ? If not,
then you have a standard night and day to be lived up to.
That is certainly practical and useful. You may say you do
not have time to be neat and clean. But you do have time.
You may deceive yourself, but you cannot deceive mother
nature. She knows. You have hundreds of little minutes that
are wasted every day. You talk idly to others who have no
claims on your time, and you thus let valuable moments go to
waste. You believe that the daily newspaper is a means of
education, when in fact it is a means of dethroning reason and
inviting suicide by its flaring columns of crime and disaster.
Surely you do not wish to flood your mind with the impure
news stream of the daily press. Permit scant offerings of the
newspaper to enter your mind. The press has no power over
the public. It sways no one whose mind is worth swaying.
Therefore, do not make the mistake of taking your mental food
from such a source. Save the wasted moments for such
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 103
reading and current history as you can get from the
weekly publications of high merit and from the monthly
magazines.
Having learned that a moment is a diamond set in hours of
gold, spare them to the best aspirations of the mind and heart.
Cut short idle conversation and idle reading.
Then will come the objection that you do not feel like
improving yourself ;
you have won the courtship and there is
no reason now why you should be careful in order to retain the
good opinion of the other sex. Of course that is laziness. You
are now sounding the note that has held people down all their
lives. It is the repetition of history to invite poverty and
failure by the love of doing nothing that can be evaded. The
old advice to never put off till to-morrow what you can do
to-day, shows the trend of humanity all through the past
centuries. The man or woman who does not draw prosperity
like a magnet is the one who reverses the advice, and never does
to-day what can be put off till to-morrow.
Magnetism is founded on eternal activity of the muscles and
of the mind. You can study the habits of magnetic men and
women, and you will find, much to your surprise, that they are
never at rest ;
they are not time wasters ;
they cannot let
moments run to waste. Perhaps you do not care to purchase
success at the expense of learning how to be active. In that
case, it is useless to go further. You cannot reverse nature.
Those who are active in mind and muscle by born habit or
temperament are looked upon as naturally magnetic. But it
has been proved that the same habits may be cultivated in
either way ;
you may cultivate magnetism and the love of
activity will follow ; or you may cultivate activity and the
magnetic character will be set up along with it. You cannot
separate the two.
Therefore, when you say that you do not feel like paying
attention to the scores of details that will make you neat and
cleanly, bright and attractive, you are sounding the death-
knell of your future success, unless you have the inherent will
power to turn about and make up your mind to do what is
right. Once, when in the throes of courtship, you sought self-
improvement through excessive activity and personal attention
to your manners and character, your dress and body. Nature
104 SEX MAGNETISM
was then behind you pushing you on. Now you must invite
nature to come again to your aid.
Suppose you are a husband. You have some male friend
of about the same age as your wife, and this friend comes to
your house to live for a few weeks. He is not her husband. He
is no relation to her. He may or may not be married ; that
makes no difference ; but if your wife is neat, refined and
attractive, this male friend of yours will show you how to
behave before her. He will be extra neat in dress, person and
appearance. He will be careful and gentlemanly in speech.
He will be courteous and gallant at all times. He will be
considerate and patient if trying circumstances arise. That is
the measure that nature sets up within him for him to follow.
Not that he is courting your wife, or that he is flirting with her.
He may be careful not to see her when you are not present, so
there is no reason for jealousy ; but he merely acts on the
instinctive impulse that comes forth on all such occasions where
the man meets the woman to whom he is not married. It is,
of course, true that his own wife at home, if he has one, will not
receive the gallant attentions that he bestows on the wife of
his friend right under the gaze of that friend. It is of course
true that, if he were to marry that wife to whom he is showing
such politeness, he would cease such extra attentions ; but you
cannot take away the fact that this wife enjoys such gallantry
and evidence of appreciation, and that the man suffers not the
slightest inconvenience in rendering them to her. Then the
excuse that you do not feel like it, when these matters are
urged on you as a daily habit, is only a false reply to the
suggestion.
The wife, all other things being equal, prefers to have this
man in the house, as every woman enjoys homage ; but let
him relax his politeness and care of her or himself, let him
show clothing that is not neat, let him come to the table un-
kempt, let him slip up in his refined speech, or otherwise show
signs of the marriage habit, and his wife will suddenly despise
him. The thin veneer has broken and the same disappointing
man is there in the guise of a visitor. If his attentions do not
ring true, she will find them out. His hope of retaining the
welcome is in a genuine admiration for her, and an honest
attempt to be attractive to her. All this may be done without
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 105
overstepping the hospitality offered by the husband. It is not
flirting. If the visitor has designs other than loyal to his
friend, he will make them manifest in other ways, and then
the wife must either confide in her husband or else subdue
the invader.
Let the husband himself transfer this visiting gallantry and
attention to his own wife, and never relax from it as long as
he lives. He would show such refinement to some other wife ;
why not his own ? He thinks it is not worth while. He sees
the woman he is married to, and knows her under all circum-
stances, and he does not think it worth while to court her
over again. Let that part of it drop. All that is asked is to
evince the attentions and manliness in her presence that he
would yield to the wife of his friend. That is not too much,
and it is eminently practical.
Read all of chapter III. in this course and adopt the
suggestions there made, as they cover the whole ground of
personal conduct.
Then there are some lines of improvement that may not be
invited in the usual courtship. While book learning is not
always essential to sex influence, it is a means of help ; but
common sense and good judgment are always necessary. They
can be cultivated by the process known in magnetism as
asking yourself a constant question, or expressing a constant
belief. In acquiring common sense and good judgment the
question to be asked as you analyze each idea or each proposed
act, is stated below :
" Is it sensible ?
"
The statement to be made is :
" This is not the best thing to do."
The purpose is to concentrate the mind on the conditions
and to select the best course. If the reply to the question is
favourable, you have the advantage of the brief analysis ; and
if the assertion is not correct, then you will have had something
in the mind that has turned it about completely. By this
process a person comes soon to acquire good sense and accurate
judgment. Many men who have won the highest success in
life have had the habit of taking the opposite view of every-
thing from that which is first presented to them ; and they
then see if they are able to break down this opposition.
106 SEX MAGNETISM
The mental process is done in a flash and soon is a fixed
habit.
Men appreciate evidence of practical common sense in a
woman whether she is married or single. Woman admire the
same trait in men. A girl is pretty. Some young man is
infatuated with her beauty. His older friends may say, " She
is a mere doll."
—" She has a baby face."
—" She is just pretty
and nothing else, and beauty is only skin deep."
It is a very undesirable marriage that has merely the beauty
of a wife to cement it ;
for, as she matures, her good looks
will give way to the lack of sound intelligence. The mind that
first breaks down, in the average number of cases, is that
which has followed the vanishing of a pretty face. Many of
the women in the asylums have once been beauties. Sense
and fine looks make a good combination ; and sense coupled
with practical judgment, embellished by native intelligence,
is much more desirable than the velvet skin and the bright
complexion. Look at the police and court history of many of
the noted cases of recent years, and see how many girls of the
pretty type have figured in them.
What is called sense and the lack of genial kindness are too
often found blended in the same person. While sense is an
aid to magnetism it is overcome by harshness and a cold
disposition. As sunshine has been found essential to the growth
of all life, so the brightness of mind and heart have the same
influence over our fellow beings.
Character has power to win, but it loses against bad manners
and cheap habits. The greater the real worth of a person, the
greater will be the character, and it is doubtful if character is
real where the habits are faulty. A very attractive young
woman was seen after dinner at a hotel where she had met the
son of a prominent millionaire. He thought he had never
beheld so rare and fascinating a beauty before, and he was
already beyond control in love with her, when he saw her move
her tongue along the entire row of lower front teeth, and clean
them. The lip was bulged out as the tongue made its repeated
progress in this effort. Her next achievement was to run a
long, slender, delicately pink little finger up into her nose for
several inches, as he thought, and pull down something that he
did not wait to scrutinize. He was gone.
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 107
The real man will not chew gum or tobacco or work his
mouth in any way when it is not necessary. He will not pick
his teeth in public, or in the presence of any other person ;
nor will he suck the teeth at the cavities, or otherwise make
himself appear nasty in personal habits. Of all the nauseating
faults of men, none is more disagreeable than these, especially
any action of the tongue, teeth, lips or mouth that can be seen
or heard. One woman was driven crazy by the " sucking
"
of cavities in the teeth of her husband. He did this all the time,
and she had been brought up in a family of refinement. Some
natures cannot endure the deplorable habits of men.
It is true that a person who has not been well bred would
have no guiding rules to aid in doing right and avoiding error ;
but there should be ambition to find out the facts. Get a
book of etiquette, and read it not only once, but a hundred
times until everything is understood and can be adopted easily.
Husbands and wives sometimes agree to find out all they can
for each other, and to make suggestions for the help of each
in all matters of personal conduct. In the rules of etiquette
there are some forms and some customs that vary with the
locality ; but every person in and out of society should have
the latest local guide in good manners and should take a few
minutes a day for the study of it. There will be an opportunity
to practise these rules anywhere, or at least some of them.
There are couples who actually do put them into practice in the
homes they occupy, humble as they are. It was at one time
thought that such couples would never have an opportunity to
show their good manners in the higher ranks ; but the latter
find them out. In one case a wealthy woman had occasion to
call at the home of one of the couples referred to, and was
surprised to witness the same methods that she was accustomed
to in her own circles. To her husband she said that she believed
they had seen better days. " Let us find out," he replied, and
they gave a dinner to the poor husband and wife. All the
attaches of the mansion stood about and there was no form
that was omitted. Of course, the guests were not at ease, but
they knew what to do and they did it at all times. The result
was a friendship that led to a business opportunity for the man,
and to-day he is himself the head of a great firm.
It can be set down as an axiom that any person in humble
108 SEX MAGNETISM
circumstances who is willing to study and to practise the rules
of etiquette in a lowly dwelling has that something in him that
will rise to a better condition.
On the same principle it may be set down as an axiom that
any man or woman who, while not seeming to have any use
for an education, will improve in spelling, in grammar, in
mathematics, in rhetoric, in the English language as a litera-
ture, or in any branch of useful learning, will some day rise
to a level that will suit the accomplishment.
Among the ordinary ranks of educated people you will be
measured largely by the way you pronounce the English
language, and by the kind of grammar you speak. Among
those with whom you correspond, you will be estimated
according to your use of grammar, and your vocabulary. But
in the higher ranks you will stand or fall on your knowledge
of rhetoric.
Here then are three studies that you should become master
in. They may not be exchangeable right away for bread and
meat, but they will sooner or later buy something greater
than bread or meat. Every person who is ignorant, every
person who is fairly-well educated, every person who has
acquired great learning and has grown rusty in its use, should
have near-by every day of the week certain books, of which a
grammar, a dictionary, a speller, and a rhetoric are the first
four. Some persons carry one of these books with them all
the time. There are minutes in every day that are wasted,
and that can be put to some use in study.
The fifth most important book is a work on character ;
the sixth is a work on etiquette, and a seventh is a work on
mathematics of some kind, for every person should be quick
and accurate in figuring.
Now what will be the difference between adding knowledge
and reading the sewerage of the daily press ? The latter is
more entertaining, just as pastry tastes better than corn meal
bread. But the pastry ruins the blood, and the newspaper
ruins the mind. There is a difference of value all along the
way. The seven books we have referred to will give you a
new level. Your own ability will rise to a higher level. It is
a rule of human life that every individual sooner or later
rises to his actual level, just as a fountain will do the same.
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 109
A man had a seven-storey building, in which he had running
water on the first floor only. He carried his pipes farther up
the hill and the water rose to supply the second floor. Later
on he carried the pipes still farther up the hill, and the water
supplied the third floor. In the course of time he went back
far enough and up high enough to reach the level of the seventh
floor, and he got the source of supply even beyond that so he
could add another storey or more to the building.
In just this way human values rise and fall.
The young man says, " What is the use of my learning
arithmetic ? I am not working where they want arithmetic."
When he was told that it would not hurt him, he was induced
to try it, and he soon found it both harmless and a pleasant
study. When he had become skilled in figures, he was wanted
at another place where they required the knowledge of arith-
metic, and his wages were doubled. This will be the experience
of every man and woman who ever expects to be thrown
on his or her own resources. A young lady some years ago was
advised to take all seven of the branches of training referred
to above, and she obeyed. The books were borrowed, and so
cost her nothing. She had the time and blindly went to work.
Then she happened by some good fortune to fall heir to the
estate of a rich uncle, and her education was useless. But she
did not regret it. She felt all the better for the knowledge
she had acquired. In the course of three more years the mines
failed, and all her fortune was wiped out. She was in debt.
At this time, being compelled to live on her labour, she found
the education the only means of earning a decent livelihood.
Again she did not regret it. When she was rich, her training,
all self-taught, enabled her to attend to the duties of her
circumstances, and gave her a place among the educated classes.
When she was poor, the same training enabled her to subsist
and lay aside a fund each year against old age.
But aside from the monetary value of knowledge, there is
the making of a better level. It is easily and quickly made.
Not much is required to effect a change for the better. Take
the case of a young man who had married and who wanted
to rise above his level both of wages and of mind. He wrote
to a business man for advice. After perusing the letter, the
business man told him to learn to spell. "This is a joke,"
110 SEX MAGNETISM
he said, " but I will do it, for I suppose my letter was a freak."
He paid sixpence for an old spelling-book. He had an hour
or two each evening in which he could study. In a month he
challenged his wife to trip him on any word in the book, and
she could not. He became an unusually accurate speller.
Then as a joke he wrote to the man and took pains to make
the letter quite long, asking him what he would next advise. The
man said he needed grammar. This was a different proposi-
tion ; but the young man and his wife both started to learn
grammar without a teacher. They had no trouble that could
not be surmounted, and in the course of a year they were
very good grammarians. Again the young man wrote to the
merchant and asked him what next he would suggest. The
latter had employed the young man's father and had told
the younger one that he would be glad to give him advice at
any time. The third suggestion was a knowledge of arithmetic ;
but this was anticipated, as there had been an old book of
that kind in the house for some months. It was not long before
this same merchant offered a good position to the ambitious
student, who was at best nothing but an ignorant knock-about
fellow two years before, and who married when he had nothing
with which to support the wife. The business man and his
protege had a conference after a while and they computed
how much the latter had gained by being willing to educate
himself instead of remaining at his low level. In place of
wages averaging less than three pounds a week, he was able
to earn all the year round a salary equal to eight pounds
a week. This was the money value of the self-taught
training.
There are millions of young men in this country who are able
to raise their own level, but who will not lift a finger to do so.
They come home and claim that they have had all the hard
work they want for that day. In a line of unemployed last
winter, eight men out of every ten showed evidence of a possible
intelligence beyond their condition. A lady of wealth had her
agents meet these men singly and apart from all listeners,
and offered to them books they would need to enable them to
learn ; but not one man in a thousand would let this be done.
They all preferred to sit in the parks, reading scraps of old
newspapers, and talking about their hard luck ; and the well
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 111
and strong among them refused to aid themselves or be
aided except as unemployed men.
For poverty there is a cause.
For ignorance there is a cause.
The men and women who will not take an interest in
themselves when their health is such that they are able to do
so, should not be fed, especially when the offers of help are
made in connection with the offers of food and clothing. Of
course a hungry man wants something to eat rather than
something to study. But if he can have his food, his clothing
and his lodgings all given to him free of charge on condition
that he try to make himself more useful, he will refuse the
latter part of the tender. In one experiment a man of wealth
gave three good meals a day, and lodgings and clothing to
a large number of men, and then assembled them in a hall
where he had teachers try to arouse in them a desire and
willingness to be taught the easiest and simplest things of a
useful education ; but the men would not listen. Not one
would open a book given him.
These facts show why that class is not worthy of help.
A young married man recently killed himself and left a
letter in which he said that he had consulted a clergyman
who advised him to end his life, as the conditions of modern
civilization were such that no man under moral obligations could
live in them. This husband left two small boys and a wife.
He was twenty-seven years of age. He had been married five
years. Prior to his marriage he had been given an opportunity
to receive an education and spurned the offer. After his
marriage he showed no disposition to lighten the burdens of
his wife who slaved for him more hours than he worked for
her. He spent his evenings away from home until ten or
eleven o'clock, while his wife was struggling with her cares
and children. When the panic came seven young men of his
acquaintance who had been to school and had learned their
lessons well, had steady work and were laying aside money,
while this fellow was idle and took very little interest even
then in bettering himself. One of his young men friends said
to him one evening, " Tom, you have a chance to get good
work if you will fit yourself for it. But you know nothing
of the plain branches of knowledge." The despondent young
\
112 SEX MAGNETISM
man said he did not know and did not want to know. Then
came the suicide. The clergyman denied having given the
advice to kill himself. There was no evidence of insanity. It
was merely a typical case of the class who will not better their
minds, and who prefer to remain ignorant and abjectly poor
rather than try to rise in the world.
We do not uphold the idle rich, for we have only profound
disgust for them and their monkey dinners ;
but, on the other
hand, we do not uphold the poor and ignorant classes who
refuse to help themselves when help is offered in a way that
will enable them to seek new levels and rise to them. It is
not the fault of the wealthy classes that the poor are poor.
It is the fault of the poor themselves. This fault can be brought
home to that class and very easily identified.
The husband who does not care to better himself by making
a new level for himself, has no genuine love for his wife. He
may have animal affection and a dog loyalty, but not a manly
love. He may grumble at modern civilization and blame it
for his poverty, but he forgets that the millionaire who puts
ten thousand pounds in a house, really distributes the ten
thousand pounds. If he did nothing with it he would have it
but when he spends it somebody else has it, and it is the great
public. The women who each year spend thousands of pounds
for dresses that are wholly unnecessary to them, part with the
thousands of pounds. If they did not spend it they would
still have it ;
but, having spent it, the public has it. How
many persons do you think get some of the thousands of
pounds that the rich spend for their dresses each year ?
Thousands of people. Now which is best : to keep the money
and not let the thousands of people share it ; or to spend it
so that it may go into general circulation ? After the rich
women part with it, what have they in place of the thousands
of pounds ? Nothing at all, after the dresses have been worn
and given away or discarded. There is a total annual loss of
thousands of pounds to the wealthy women. But some of
the thousands of people who share this vast amount of money
each year, lay away part of it for a rainy day.
This is but one case in illustration of the value of the
spendthrift to the world.
It is a lucky thing that the rich spend their money like
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 113
water. It would be a calamity of the most disastrous char-
acter if the rich did not spend their money. It used to be the
policy of governments in hard times to carry on public improve-
ments so that the idle men might be employed and thus be
able to support their families. When numerous rich men each
year will maintain constant improvements in their property,
they will do a far wider work and a more beneficial charity
in the name of money-squandering than many of the cities
and corporations that open up their treasuries in days of panic.
A certain American city spent thousands of pounds to give
its idle men work one winter. Another city spent many
thousands of pounds to help circulate some money among
hungry families ; but this was spent in three days, and the
amount that was added to the circulation was spent chiefly
on drink.
In and around that city, twelve months in the year, year
in and year out, rich men spend thousands of pounds a day
in labour bills for the mere purpose of carrying on private
improvements and keeping their estates and property in good
condition ; and the excellent thing about this expenditure is
that men who drink and carouse are being gradually refused
jobs. When the men of wealth will make work plenty, and
give it only to labourers who are sober and industrious, they
will do a greater charity than the sentimental women who
feed the idle poor. In the park near Somerville, New Jersey,
U.S.A., a multi-millionaire spends for labour alone between
three to four hundred pounds a day. What he gets in return
is a shifting of the land. He has been doing this for more
than ten years. If he were to sell the place to-day he would
not get as much for it as it cost him. His expenditure, then,
has been a form of distributing his money among his fellow-
beings. Had that money been sent to the coffers of the middle
classes it could not have cropped out in the form of parks,
and no one would have been benefited by it.
Permanent employment is the best charity.
Such facts should be borne in mind when a person is
disposed to blame poverty on the rich, on the ground that the
latter have taken the money from the poor. To-day there is
a stampede of money into the country from the city ; and the
wealthy classes are taking many labourers with them to each
8
114 SEX MAGNETISM
new home. These are given homes without rent, and work
all the year round. Imagine each twenty-five thousand
pounds that is held by one person to have been distributed
among a thousand persons of the middle classes, and you will
have a condition that would cut off the support of many
famihes from permanent labour, as well as the multitude of
other expenses that arise in the maintenance of a great estate.
Each person who received the money would horde it, and it
would be idle ;
or, if it were spent, it would be gone ; while
the expenditure of the millionaire goes on for ever.
It is a glorious thing that in this country to-day every man
or woman who wishes to reach a higher level can do so. Just
get the seven books referred to and begin to reach that higher
level. The books can be taken from any public library without
cost, or bought at second-hand stores for a few shillings each.
It makes no difference how poor or how affluent you are ; master
the seven books ; know all there is in common arithmetic, in
spelling, in grammar, in rhetoric, in English literature, in
character and in etiquette. Just as sure as you make yourself
the master of these studies, just so sure will you make for your-
self a new level ; and just as sure as you make a new level of
mental and physical value, just so sure will you rise to it.
It is one of the most gratifying laws of life that every person
can make a new level every year, and we might almost say,
every month.
But once a new level is made, nothing on earth can keep you
down. It is the old case of the fountain-head and the outlet
the higher the former rose the higher the latter forced itself.
Is it worth trying ?
A husband who has spare moments, as all husbands have,
can put them to no better use than this. The same is true
of the wife. If the two do not care to study together ; or if
one is unwilling to aid or sympathize with the other in any
effort, take up the work alone. Make no show of doing this.
Just do it as the moments offer themselves. But do not
neglect any other duties of home life for the study. The order
of action should be as follows :
1. Give your work and duties full attention and make them
complete each day.
2. Aid your mate morning, noon and night in any way you
THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE 115
can in the performance of the duties that belong to each
day.
3. Volunteer to assist such mate in extra matters where
there is any possibility of being helpful.
4. Then pay full attention to your personal habits and
conduct so that the suggestions of the third chapter of this
book may be fully complied with. Be all you should, refined,
neat, careful and alert.
5. After that, take up the studies of the seven books
referred to in any order you please.
You have time enough.
By doing these things and making your plans so that you
can surely do them, you will become a different person. The
difference will be perceived by everybody who knows you.
Your life mate will notice it, and then that high respect that
precedes magnetism will be awarded you at all times. Mark
what we say, there is no higher honour in this world that can
come to you than to have earned such consideration.
Is it worth trying for ?
Yes, if life has anything in it that is worth trying for, and
we think it has.
By these means you can cultivate the attractive force.
If you lack it, you can never develop Sex Magnetism.
It is the soil in which Sex Magnetism grows.
If you cultivate the attractive force and should not go so far
as to add Sex Magnetism, you will not have worked in vain,
for the latter power is very close at hand to a man or woman
who has attained the former.
Suppose you are not married, but are old enough to enter
that state, and should not possess this attractive force, its
coming to you through your deliberate effort will add a great
value to your life. The new level will be high indeed and you
will rise to it and thus make yourself the person most fitted for
a life mate.
If you are married, then there is all the more reason why
you should develop this attractive force, for it will make
marriage mean more to you than anything else can except
Sex Magnetism.
If you are old and have passed the time of life when you
should marry, do not let that deter you from cultivating the
116 SEX MAGNETISM
attractive force. It is important that you should have it,
not that you may take a life mate, but that you may find that
affiliation that one sex needs in the appreciation of another.
It is not good for a man or a woman to be alone.
Lay this foundation well.
Keep in mind the fact that it is practical, useful and filled
with opportunities for rising in the world in every department
of life.
SEX INFLUENCES
TWO things are assumed as having been accomplished by
the time this stage is reached. These may be found
described in a general way in the third and fourth chapters,
and there they should be searched out and analysed until they
are fully understood. They may be briefly summed up in a
few words as follows :
1 . It is assumed that by this time that you have acquired
the attractive force.
2. It is assumed that by this time that you have found a
new level.
Such being the case, you are ready to enter directly upon
the study of Sex Magnetism. If the two preliminary steps
have not been taken as yet, then do not proceed for the
present, for there will be nothing gained in overleaping the
space between the foundation and the higher part of the
system.
Proceed slowly.
There is much to be attained if it is reached by solid steps
along the first part of the course. Haste accomplishes nothing
in this study.
The purpose in view must be fully known and kept before
the mind all along the way. The difference between personal
magnetism and Sex Magnetism is also of material importance,
and should not be misunderstood. The first or foundation
course is known as the cultivation of personal magnetism. This
is not the power to hypnotize, but its opposite. It is the power
to awaken, to thrill, to win ; to obtain a voluntary following
from a person whose senses have been quickened instead of
dulled ; it does not put to sleep, but wakes up and arouses ; it
makes no slave, but a brighter, better helper. Personal
magnetism also teaches self-mastery, self-control, rulership,
leadership and the full strength of life. It gives power ;
conscious power ; tremendous power ; a grander manhood,
117
118 SEX MAGNETISM
and a more exalted womanhood ; an influence that is far-
reaching and ever-growing ; an influence for any purpose in
life. It wins respect. It compels attention.
Such is the foundation course, that which should and must
precede this system. It is in the foundation book of the
Magnetism Club.
As has always been stated, that foundation course should
either come before this, or should accompany it ; there can be
no omission of it by this time.
It will, if its teachings have been mastered, have conquered
in you all reluctance to acquire the attractive force, and to
make for yourself a new level in your personal worth.
There is nothing ideal or merely advisory in these steps.
They are exactly the steps that any successful man or woman
will have to take in whole or in part. They are instigated by
nature, and have been so directed since first the dawn of
civilization gave promise of a better manhood and womanhood
for the race.
All that has led up to this stage of the study has applied
only to the improvement of yourself. It has been taught in a
negative and an affirmative process :
1. The negative process has been intended to drive out the
unattractive qualities such as are described in the third
chapter.
2. The affirmative process has been intended to build up
something of greater value, as described in the fourth chapter
including not only the attractive force, but also the new
level.
Think over these two steps, and note their effectiveness
along the lines of usual and natural progress. Then you will
be ready to make another dividing line, as follows :
1. The two processes, negative and affirmative, have applied
solely to your own improvement as an individual of attractive
powers.
2. The next step must apply to your helpfulness toward
your life mate.
Here again the distinction is important.
It would not be enough for you to better yourself and your
value unless you could bestow that improvement on the person
whom you have allied yourself with for life. As a matter of
SEX INFLUENCES 119
side advice, it is suggested that a mutual desire for the pro-
longation of both lives should be fostered, and everything done
to bring about its fulfilment.
If you are a man it will be doubly important that you do
this. It may now be supposed that you have passed the various
stages that precede, and that your desire is centred on the
health of yourself and wife, provided you are married, or are
to be married. If you think your health good enough at
present, remember that men who have been sick but little are
quick victims of a single severe attack, for they are unprepared
for it in mind and will power. They get frightened easily, and
a frightened patient is an easy victim of death. It is easy for
every well man to keep well, but it is not easy for a well man to
remain well without giving attention to his health. While you
are well you are in the best condition to make the plan of
living that will keep you in health. Prevention is the leading
demand to-day in everything. To be curing something all the
time, and mending something day in and day out, is neither
wise nor practical sense. The man who locks his house and
keeps out the burglars is a much more intelligent man than
the one who, after he has been robbed, hunts down the thief.
The owner of the horse who locks the barn door after the
animal has been stolen is a type of the man who tries in this
age of multitudinous sickness to take care of his health after
it has gone.
When a husband is well the duties of the wife are many and
hard. All his earning capacity is needed to help her and supply
the home. When he is sick that capacity is removed, and in
place of it there will stalk in the house the costs of medicine
and doctor. But the duties of his wife are increased, for the
man must be waited on, and his share of helpfulness at home
is taken away. Therefore, the man who will not look after his
health, but will allow things to take their own course, is very
selfish. He is unfair. He thinks of the chances he may have
of getting well, but not of the tax and possible breakdown of
his wife.
As sickness is always invited by the negligence and faults
of someone, it is always a sin that is fastened on someone by
the judgment of heaven. It may have its start in a previous
generation, but for the most part every bodily ill is due to
120 SEX MAGNETISM
ignorance and stupidity in food selection, in cooking and in
senseless habits. Sickness has always been a sin, despite the
fact that the innocent suffer for such wrong-doing as much as
the guilty parties. Some day, in a higher civilization, it will
be made a crime. But to-day in nine homes out of ten, in
ninety houses out of every hundred, sickness stalks in as an
unwelcome visitor, destroying the peace, the comfort and the
happiness of all present, making the sick helpless and imposing
extra toil on the well, and sapping the finances where they are
most weak. Yet there is hardly any attempt to check this
lack of sense in the great public. Men and women who are
able to manage their financial and business affairs, and who
are reputed to possess great powers of sense and judgment, fall
down in this one department.
People live in habits, not in thought.
The disposition to let well enough alone is the cause of the
deficiency of mind in looking after the health while yet it
remains.
People who let well enough alone are like the owner of
the horse referred to.
They do not stop to think that the seeds of disease are
sown in silence, and when they break forth, as in appendicitis,
in paresis, in paralysis, in rheumatism, in diabetes, in kidney
troubles and in cancer, as well as in many others, they come
so suddenly that there is no chance to fight them ;
yet, taken
when the health was good, they could have been easily averted.
" You are sick unto death," said a doctor to a business
man recently. " You could have prevented this a year ago
had you given your health thought and care then." " Yes,
doctor, I know ; but my motto has always been to let well
enough alone." So he died for the sake of the motto that
would leave every door unlocked in a house until the burglars
came ; that would allow every infant to play on the road
until death came, and that is setting back more than
seven homes in every ten that are struggling to rise above the
vicissitudes of life's uncertain struggle.
If you are a wife, you should take care of your health for
your own sake, for the sake of your husband, and for the sake
of your home.
Ill health may come in the form of acute or chronic sick-
SEX INFLUENCES 121
ness. In the former condition you become felled at once,
and the duties of the household are at a standstill. Your
services are lost to your family and to yourself. Others must
take care of you, go without sleep and rest, and become more
or less unfitted to earn the income that the home needs. If
you have some chronic illness, it means an unhappy marriage,
for there can be no content where there is bad health. Some-
body must pay for it in all sorts of coin—loss of time, loss of
opportunity, loss of pleasure, loss of money, and generally
loss of temper.
How many young women to-day who are engaged to marry
have a right to enter wedlock ? Less than two in every twenty.
Their health is such that, although they cover up the facts
until they are married, they are sure to begin a series of
impositions on their husbands by bringing chronic invalidism
to him. The delicate and languid maiden may pose as dainty
during courtship, but she stands out clearly defined as an
invalid after marriage.
There are not ten female stomachs in a hundred on an
average among the classes above the poor that are free from
some chronic form of malady. The pastry, soda water, ice
cream, sweets, cakes and what else that the female loves
above her health have all been doing their work for years.
There are not ten girls in a hundred who are old enough to
become wives who have not been taking medicines or stimulants
for years. They cannot resist the temptation to abuse their
stomachs. They eat heavy evening meals, no breakfasts of
any value, and light lunches ; thus reversing all day long the
law of nature that food is a fuel to be taken before using,
and not after. As a result these girls when married have dull
headaches, bad eyes, dirty breath and disordered stomachs ;
and they wonder why, when the husband promised so faithfully
to care for and to cherish the wife, he should not have greater
sympathy for the sick than for the well. The answer is that
men who are old enough to be at large know perfectly well
that the headaches, pains and disorders of women are due
almost always to a senseless method of eating. Men may not
say aloud what they think ; but they are to-day proving by
their actions their belief ; for husbands are walking out oi
the marriage state at the rate of hundreds of thousands every
122 SEX MAGNETISM
year, while other men are refusing to enter it. The reason
was given in one case, and it stands as the general reason in
nearly all cases : "I will not marry a girl who is to enter
upon a state of chronic invalidism just as soon as she becomes
a wife," is the reply of the man of to-day.
It is easy to study health from a sensible standpoint,
and to preserve it ;
or, if it has been lost, to get it back. The
key that unlocks the door of good health is proper food selec-
tion and proper cooking ; for what a person eats is exactly
what that person is. If you ill-feed a valuable horse it will be
sick and may die. If you treat a husband just as well as you
would treat your horse, then he will have proper food, care-
fully prepared.
These evidences of unselfishness are essential for the
happiness of your home and your existence with the mate
whom you have allied yourself with for life.
It is selfishness to become sick, and a charge on the care
of others when you can avoid that condition by foresight and
attention to the few simple laws of health. If you are alone
in the world, living out in the woods as a hermit, then your
health is yours alone. But if you dwell in civilized society,
or in a state of civilization, your health is both public and
private property. It requires but brief reasoning to figure
out this result.
This being the case, study daily to keep your mind and your
body strong, in order that your life-mate may be helped by
your better physical and mental condition.
If your mind goes wrong, as many minds are going in this
age of rapid living and carelessness in personal health, then
you may do harm to those you love. Be regardful of your
mental state. The toxins that are generated by the stomach
during indigestion poison the brain and inflame it, or else
lead to paralysis and breakdown. One of the most prolific
causes of derangement is gas poisoning from the organs of
digestion. Paralysis may follow such disorder. This stopping
of the nervous fluid or current is all the time occurring in
the body, but the serious consequences are being checked in
time by the operations of life. It is safer to remove the cause.
The loss of the mind is sometimes a very sudden act, and
is traceable to the condition of the stomach. The eyesight
SEX INFLUENCES 123
follows the stomach in everything. People dread appendicitis,
but its control begins and is lost at the stomach. It is just as
preventable as is the loss of a leg by removing it from the
railway lines in time.
If you permit a condition of constipation to continue, you
are risking appendicitis, paralysis, heart failure, apoplexy and
blood derangement, as well as headaches and neuralgia. By
lessening the amount of food to one-half the usual quantity,
omitting all kinds except those that are plain and simple,
ingesting what you eat in the most thorough manner before
it is swallowed, and otherwise exercising care in all things
pertaining to daily existence, you will make these dread
maladies impossible.
If you expose yourselves to drafts of air, or to cold pave-
ments, or to inactivity out of doors in cool or cold weather,
or sit on metal or stone steps, or stop to talk to a friend,
either in the cold air or at the doorway, or sit at an open window,
or cool off too quickly when heated, or drink ice water or other
cold drinks, or take stimulants, you will attract disease in
some form ; and these exposures always discover the weak
spots in your health.
In the past year we had knowledge of six cases of paralysis
following the opening of car windows to enable somebody
to get fresh air ; the ones who got it being those in the seats
next behind the silly fellow who imagined that air would come
into a moving car at right angles with the side of the car itself,
instead of slantwise to the seat behind him. The man who
rocks a boat is generally young and lacking in common sense ;
and the man who opens a car window is of the same mental
calibre.
Here is a case that occurred last week. A young mother
went out of doors on the damp ground without overshoes
to protect her feet. She is now dead, and the funeral will
occur to-morrow. Where was her mind when she took the
chances ? What did she owe to her baby, if she owed nothing
to her husband or her parents \ Is the fact that she is dead,
and that she cannot know the sorrow she brought to several
lives a warrant for her indifference ? When cautioned against
the act, she had only a sneer for the sister who gave her the
warning.
124 SEX MAGNETISM
Such a case, differing only in the kind of exposure, is
common. People are taking chances all the time. They have
a pity or a cheap answer for those who seek to guide them.
Is it because the human mind has much to do before it can
attain a condition of ordinary civilization that these neglects
of body, of mind and of stomach by exposure, by bad habits
and by a fearful diet are so numerous ?
Is the mind just entering civilization ?
Whatever the cause, the fact remains that homes are all
the time being invaded by sickness and the grim figure of
death, where there might have been many years of happiness.
There is no golden rule of peace when illness is too frequent
a visitor in the home. Nothing will so quickly break up
the domestic contentment as sickness, even if death waits a
while. The boy that sleeps on the icy ground might have
been alive and well had his parents been alert in his days of
health. The daughter that is lying with upturned face to
the sod was a sacrifice. Look back up the years that have
gone, and ask yourself how many pies she ate as a sum total,
and then try to excuse yourself by saying that you never
heard of such a thing as pies destroying the good elements
of the blood. You, perhaps, never heard that pastry breaks
up the blood faster than any other one cause. It is much
more to be feared than the germs of disease ; for it has num-
bered more victims, although its work is principally to deliver
the body over to such germs. When the blood has been robbed
of its value then the germs appear ; and you are made to
believe that the germs were the real cause instead of being
merely the last agency of the taking off. No person will
succumb to germs or to any contagion or malady who has
not first laid the foundation by breaking down the blood by
a bad diet.
Place the blame where it belongs.
The handkerchief tied about the neck stops the circulation
of blood ; but the heart failure is the cause of the death that
follows. The act of tying the handkerchief is the real instiga-
tion and the only guilty agency.
Love for yourself may not prompt you to be careful of
your health ; but how about the love you bear to others ?
Are you willing to bring sorrow to the wife, the husband,
SEX INFLUENCES 125
the child or the parent when your inherent selfishness might
easily stop the advance of sickness ? Think this over.
You owe it to yourself to do all in your power to add to
the peace and happiness of your home life. As sickness is
the worst and the most common of all enemies, you should
master that foe from this moment until you no longer possess
any will power to make you look after yourself. If your wife
or husband or family will not attend to their health, you
should educate them with as little friction as possible. They
dislike to be talked to on the subject, but there is a duty in
the work, and you may acquire some diplomatic method of
performing it.
This is the beginning of the plan of helping the life-mate
whom you have taken.
It is practical work.
After death has come then its value is seen ; but, of course,
too late. " If you had back your dead child would you watch
over her health day in and day out ?
" was asked of a mother.
She said truly, " If I could know how close to the brink we
all are I would devote myself to the care of the health of my
own body and of my family," and she paused, then continued :
" But why are we not able to make up our minds to do this
when health is ours ?
"
Why will humanity see things too late ?
There are too many people in the world. Only those who
are willing to care for themselves and for others are of any
use, and so nature opens the way to eliminate the weak and
the careless ; and that man or woman is weakest who is most
indifferent. Progress is the banner cry of the ages, and
progress can be made only by men and women of foresight
all others are in the way. This has been the rule of nature
since first life appeared, and it always will be the rule. A few
thousand years or a few million years are nothing to nature.
She cares not a whit for people who care nothing for themselves.
" God helps those who help themselves," has been preached
for centuries.
Love is not strong enough to overcome indigestion, colds,
catarrhs, rheumatism, neuralgia, headaches and the many ills
that crowd modern homes. It is useless to seek solace in any
promises of affection under such conditions. Love likes
126 SEX MAGNETISM
vivacity, brightness, sweetness, wholeness, and the rich, red
blood of life. It has no affiliation for the bandaged head
or the rolling intestines. A man with rheumatic joints will
not look well courting a woman whose face is twisted into
torture by toothache. He should wait till he is well, and
she should have the tooth treated. When her eyes dance
with the pleasure of conscious health, and his limping walk
and crutches have been laid away for good, then they can
begin their courting history. And what is right during that
period is right all the time.
You desire to cultivate Sex Magnetism, for you have this
course of study.
But you cannot build a house upon air, nor magnetism
upon a bed of false living. You are not true to yourself if you
neglect your health, your mind, your body, your faculties or
your essential being. All these come into the building up of
Sex Magnetism. It is like a grand mansion with a solid
foundation.
Now, what has been the foundation thus far laid as taught
in the preceding pages ? Let us review them :
1. Your personal unattractiveness must be removed, and
an affirmative quality developed in its place. This is called
the attractive force.
2. Next you are shown the necessity and the way to make
yourself of greater value, whereby you will build a new level
and as sure as you live you will rise to that level.
These two mighty steps open up the way to your personal
improvement, which should be maintained, regardless of the
fact that others may be helped by them. But as sex means
two, then there is another step to be taken :
3. You must make your health such that it will aid your
life-mate on the one hand, and will not be a drag to her or
him on the other ; and your own betterment in health you must
carry to that life-mate. This is the first effort to reach out
beyond your own improvement for the good of the other.
4. You must cultivate a philosophical forbearance.
This is the second step that reaches out towards your
life-mate.
The attractive force removes the unattraotive characteristics
and habits ; the new level raises your value ;
the better health
SEX INFLUENCES 127
gives more hope to your home life; and now in that home
there must come a new philosophy. It is supreme forbearance.
It is not to be adopted as a theory, but must be practised as a
fine art. It must be put to the test all the time. There is no
credit in bearing and forbearing when all things go smoothly.
The real struggle is when you are sorely tempted.
Adversity tests everything.
The difference between character and forbearance is seen
in the following instances : A man who is alone and who finds
everything wrong becomes impatient ; but if he controls
himself, that is character. He is to blame to start with. His
collar stud left him and sought a quiet nook under the
dressing table ; that was not the fault of anybody, unless he
himself was to blame. He confounds his luck, and thus places
it in the category of chance. Perhaps this is as near right as
it will ever be made. But if he swears or jumps about and
throws things, he will not be strong in character. In dressing
himself he collides with a pin, and it is run into the ball of his
thumb right to the bone. Again he either has or lacks character.
The same man may have these experiences in the presence
of his wife. If he gives way to a burst of temper, with or
without profanity, she may cry violently on the first day of
such episodes ; but she soon learns to pass them by as matters
in which she is not involved. But if he, in a temper, should
throw a shoe at her, that would not only be lack of character
of the right kind, but a very brutal proceeding. He will
repent in a flash, take her in his arms, ask forgiveness and be
pardoned. That is affection. She rather enjoys the whole
affair if it ends in such attention.
But now we come to the more useful quality in married life,
which is known as forbearance. The husband gets up in the
morning. Something is wrong for which the wife is actually
to blame. He does not throw anything at her. He does not
swear at her. He does not scold her. He does not make
sarcastic remarks. He does not even look as if he minded it.
All he does is to take his wife in his arms, kiss her, and tell her
that it is all right. She will try to make it all right the next
time, and she does. This is forbearance of the true husband,
and it is philosophical.
If she makes the same mistakes again, without many
128 SEX MAGNETISM
mornings intervening, it is stupidity. He should analyse her
make-up to see if it is curable stupidity. If it is not, then he
must forbear all his life. There is no remedy. If it is curable,
he must be diplomatic, for a person who is stupid and who
wants to be bright is very sensitive, whereas an incurable case
is lacking for the most part in any sensitiveness. A sensitive
wife may be a sensible one at the same time, although it does
not look so at the first glance. If she is really trying to over-
come her fault, she is much more likely to do so with a kiss
for chiding than with a harsh complaint. It is much better
not to appear grieved or inconvenienced. Deal with her just
as you would if it were the second day of your acquaintance
with her when you were falling in love.
That is always a safe rule.
Whenever you have any criticism or complaint to make
always pave the way by a caress and a kiss. Tell her plainly
and kindly, so that she may see the necessity for greater care.
If dinner or any meal is delayed, and you must blame some-
one, select some cause outside of the wife, and let her seem
to be the impartial third party. Thus, when a woman was
interested in a novel and forgot to have the noon meal ready
for her husband, who was in a hurry on account of some
important business engagement, he felt keenly the annoyance,
but he did not blame his wife. He put the fault on some
imaginary man who had accosted him on the way home, and
soundly berated him to his wife, telling her how sorry he was
that he had kept her waiting. She was suspicious for a long
time as to the genuineness of his sorrow, but the hint was
taken, and no further delays were caused by novels.
If she has habits that are not to his liking, let him mend
his own bad habits first, and then correct her indirectly. This
is done by referring to some imaginary girls whom he once
knew. As an illustration, a man found his wife constantly
" tonguing her teeth," or feeling for them with the end of her
tongue, and drawing air from one or two cavities. While
this was going on he said nothing ; but once when he himself
did it he said :
" I must stop that, for it is a bad habit, and
grows on a person before he is aware. I never knew of girls
doing that except once in a while. I recall a very pretty
young lady who was a personal friend of mine, who would
SEX INFLUENCES 129
work her tongue all the time someone was talking to her, and
she soon lost all her friends." This was all the young wife
needed ; she broke up the fault at once.
It is a very excellent plan to agree to assist each other by
suggestions. Two heads are better than one. In faults of
etiquette a wife may often observe more than a man, and she
can coach him frequently if he is willing to be helped. Every-
thing referred to in the third chapter of this book can be
brought up diplomatically between husband and wife, and
not cause friction.
If it should so happen that your wife makes a severe dig at
some fault of yours, do not get angry. Put into practice the
philosophy of forbearance. If she speaks angrily, forbear.
If she says mean things, forbear. If she does mean things,
forbear. If she flirts with another man, it will be due to some
lack of attention on your part. A husband who is a man
should be able to hold even a natural wanton by his magnetism.
There are many cases proved where pretty girls have married
men who were very busy, and who were compelled to leave
their wives at home alone all day long. These wives were
naturally prostitutes by disposition, and all had been guilty
of that crime before they were married ; but their husbands
had no suspicion of the facts.
In the particular case referred to the women did not break
away from their marriage vows. While the cases were separated
they were well known from reports of the personal magnetism
club members who had been posted to observe them. There
are probably thousands of wanton women to-day who are
married, and who have been true to the promises made at the
wedding. Some of them are true and loyal, even though
sorely tempted at times. It seems that beauty is a bait that
draws men about town to its charms, no matter how reluctant
a fallen woman may be to offer such bait after once she has
found a good home and happy surroundings. In a recent case
where a girl of great beauty married a prosperous business
man, after she had spent three years in a house of ill-fame, of
which fact he was totally ignorant, some enemy of hers made
the revelation. He had overwhelming evidence of the truth
of the assertion. She knew what had been told him, for she
was present at the interview when the enemy made the dis-
9
130 SEX MAGNETISM
closure. She did not offer any denial, nor did she tell of any
conspiracy that had induced her to enter the evil life against
her will, nor anything of that kind. The bold truth stood out
before the husband. He asked her if she had been true to him
since the marriage, and she looked him full in the face and said
" Yes."
That was all he ever said to her on the subject. They are
still living together, and both claim to have found their marriage
a source of satisfaction, barring only the facts stated. A
friend of the writer, on being informed of the case, secured the
following statement from the husband : "I had no suspicion
either before or after my marriage. She is a good wife, and has
been from the day I married her. She is refined, cleanly, of
sweet disposition, kind at all times, forbearing, active, intelli-
gent, full of health, and a better helpmate than any wife of
my many business friends, as far as I am able to judge. I
would lose everything to part from her, and I think I am
gaining much by remaining with her."
But he did more. He hired detectives to follow the history
of the enemy, and at length, since these lines were first written,
he was handed a written confession from that enemy stating
that the charges were untrue, and were made solely out of
spite at being repulsed in the home of the wife. This confession
was itself untrue. The writer suggested that it would be
forthcoming as an act of repentance after remorse. The
husband is to-day of the opinion that his wife has always been
a true woman, and he is entitled to the peace of mind that this
belief brings, for he has been forbearing beyond all expectation.
A good life crushes out a bad past.
Some husbands flare up at the least shortcoming of their
wives. The slightest mistakes are beginnings of storms that
break in terrific fury on the household. It is wrong to speak
unkindly before others, and certainly wrong to speak unkindly
at all. What purpose is served by ill nature.
In moments of irritation, with or without adequate cause,
the tongue and the temper should be controlled. Forbear at
all times, even when it takes a philosopher's nature to keep
good-natured.
The wife has more cause to let her temper get the better of
her than the husband. The woman's faults, as a rule, are of
SEX INFLUENCES 131
the lesser degree. Of course, if she is a card-playing woman,
or one that drinks, the sharp line must be drawn at once. No
woman who drinks, or is untrue, or plays cards, except when
her husband is present, and then only occasionally, is fit to
be a wife. These are the three natural causes for separation.
Disloyalty is a Biblical ground. Drinking is the one offence
that cannot be forgiven, for it is more wicked in its consequences
than adultery. Ninety per cent of all the crimes in the code
of man are due to the direct or indirect influence of drunkenness.
In the families referred to there has never been a crime ;
no killing, no stealing, no assault, but there has been un-
happiness and blackened lives all the way through the awful
history. Insanity will be the heritage of three of the children ;
one of the wives has been temporarily insane three times
because of the conduct of her husband through his habits of
drink ; and constitutional diseases are in the blood of all
of them. It is from this drink habit that there falls to the
next of kin the many nervous and blood maladies that defy all
attempts at cure.
The greatest wrong a woman can do is to marry a fellow
that drinks. She should not plead ignorance because he
succeeds in hiding the fault from her. She should ascertain
by positive inquiry that he does not drink. If he has ever had
the habit, and has been cured of it, she should let him alone.
There is too much at stake in the venture.
The habit of drink in a wife is much worse than in a husband
in her case she may be the victim of patent medicines, as some
of the strongest prohibition women have been made drunkards
by the use of such medicines. A husband who weds a woman
of the wine, beer or liquor habit should submit to emasculation
for the sake of saving the next generations of his line the
disgrace and suffering of being cursed with the habit of
alcoholism and its attendant evils. He will thereby cut off
much misery, insanity probably, and blood taint.
There can be no forbearance against drink habits, adultery
and card playing. The latter is excusable when husband and
wife play at the same game or in the same gathering, but much
indulgence even then is wrong, for it makes a new level down-
wards to which they will both sink in time. It strips the mind
of its keenness, robs life of the ambition to rise to a better
132 SEX MAGNETISM
level, and wastes the energy of brain and body in the excite-
ment of watching and using the chances that turn up on pieces
of pasteboard. It instils in the blood the love of gambling,
for it trains the nerves to enjoy chance and luck without a
minimum of skill and thought. All the while the players look
with pity on those who do not care to thus waste their time ;
the players pretend that much acuteness of mind is essential
to play well, and in such a gambling game as bridge they even
pose as thoughtful during the play.
The dead stare of the eyes after the game tells a different
story. Thought has gone out, and much of it has gone out
to stay. The mind is never good for its duties after once it
has been saturated by the weakening process of the game.
Nature demands nobility of character.
When there is one or more of these three evils in the life
of a person ; when adultery, drink or card playing is made a
second nature in man or woman, then the marriage totters
if it has been contracted ; and if not, then it should be sup-
pressed at once. There is no use in entering on the contract
with a man merely for the alimony the woman needs. But
if the wedding must take place, do not bring children into the
world to carry on the sins of the parents.
Prevention is better than cure. It is possible in most cases
to prevent the misery by refusing to wed the person. But
if it is too late for that, then seek through magnetism to end
the wrong and stop the habit. This can be done by a magnetic
man or woman without having to break up the home.
Forbearance for past wrongs may be a virtue, and un-
doubtedly is when present conduct warrants it ; but forbear-
ance for current wrongs of the kinds we have described cannot
be advised, as it means too much harm in the future.
As this training proceeds it will disclose step by step the
manner in which a husband may bring an erring wife out
of her evil conditions ; and a wife may save an erring husband.
GETTING TOGETHER
LITTLE by little this course of training unfolds the possi-
bilities of power over the opposite sex. It is founded as
the old maxim would have all human conduct founded, on the
rule that he who would rule others must first prove his ability
to rule himself. For this reason all the faults that stand forth
as unattractive in man or woman are eliminated under the
guidance of the training set forth in the third chapter. Having
thus made the man or the woman to cease the repelling influence,
the next step was to raise the value of the personality to a new
level, where circumstances would soon bring the individual
life.
The next step was a natural one, that of helpfulness reach-
ing out into the personality of the other party.
Now the step at hand is that which brings them together.
The process can be applied to men and women before they
have fallen in love, or while they are engaged, or after they
are married, or when marriage is out of the question.
At first thought it would seem strange that Sex Magnetism
could exert an influence over those who did not care to marry,
or who have no present intentions of entering wedlock. But
we teach that there is too much marriage ; that more delibera-
tion and less haste are necessary in this era of universal
divorce, and that the two sexes owe to each other a duty
outside of marriage as great in its way as the bonds of
matrimony.
In young manhood and in young womanhood there should
be friendships that need not lead to wedlock. Or there may
be, in advanced life, similar friendships in which the distinction
in sex is respected and the friends are not so associated that a
wrong construction can be placed on the acquaintance. Some
very plain rules should be observed :
1. If a young man who is not engaged to marry a young
woman is friendly to her, he should meet her at her home with
133
134 SEX MAGNETISM
the consent of her parents or guardians, and should at all
times have them or other persons present or near at hand.
There should never at any time be an opportunity to be
alone.
2. If he is engaged to marry her, the couple should not be
left alone, although they may be apart from others, as in an
adjoining room with the door open. The chaperone system is
necessary in Sex Magnetism, for it increases the respect which
one sex holds for the other ; and in this age the loss or short
duration of respect is the cause of so much haste and careless-
ness in selecting a life partner. Whatever will tend to make
betrothals more deliberate and more reasonable will add to
the safety and the permanency of marriage ; and there is no
greater end desired in this era.
3. No young man should escort a young woman on any
trip or walk, ride, drive or other departure from home unless
there is a chaperone. This rule is observed in all ranks where
people are of good standing. It is not merely to guard against
indiscretion on the part of the young folks, but to compel
them to respect the difference between them in nature. The
constant cry that a young woman is able to protect her virtue
is the advance cry of prostitution. It has always preceded
the fall of the honourable girl. But, whether she is able or
not to look after herself, the one thing most certain to cause
the young man to lose interest in her is a commonness of
companionship and cheapness of acquaintance. If they are
allowed to wander off alone not all her sweetness, nor all her
purity can long hold him away from her side. She is in her
muscular powers weaker than he is, and soon the kiss will be
forced and the embrace compelled. Then all else is cheap.
4. The woman of the twenties is more sedate, as a rule,
or if she is gay and vivacious it is forced or vinegary when
the froth has settled. The young man of the teens will not be
attracted to her ; but she may have companions who are in
the twenties. While the same care that has been advised for
the younger folks is not essential, she should remember that,
just the moment they are given the opportunity to be talked
about, they will be discussed ; and they will be charged with
exactly the things that they have the opportunity to do,
whether they do them or not. Scandal is a blessing. If ail
GETTING TOGETHER 135
girls and women were virtuous, then scandal would be a sin
of the grossest kind ;
but, since ninety girls in every hundred
fall from grace before they are married, and since this has
been the rule from the time Eve fell, and will remain the rule
for some time yet, the voice of the suspicious woman is the
voice of safety. It is a blessing that the girl and her young
man friend, who have been away for a drive in a car in the
country, are charged with dishonour by the suspicious and
afterwards charged by liars who know nothing of the facts.
The girl will hear of it, her mother will hear of it, and the
first venture is generally not a guilty one ; so there is time
yet to save the girl. This would not be possible under a
system of human nature that caused people to refrain
from talking unless the wrong were committed on their own
doorsteps in the presence of invited guests. Nothing is so
valuable to the girl and to the future home as her chastity.
Nothing is so easy to take from her when she is young. Nothing
is so persistently sought by men. And it is saying what is
true when we declare that scandal has been the means of
saving nearly all who would have fallen and have been kept in
the right path. The real fault is with the parents in believing
that the daughter is able to protect herself. The proper rule
is to keep the sexes both away from the opportunity.
5. In the trial of divorce cases where the charge of adultery
is the basis for legal separation, the old Biblical ground is
endorsed. There is no church to-day, nor was there ever a
church that did not permit a divorce for this cause. But it
is a difficult thing to prove adultery as a criminal charge. In
the civil courts there are but two things that need be proved :
(a) The disposition.
(6) The opportunity.
Having shown to the court that the respondent possessed
the disposition to do this wrong, and that the opportunity
occurred, the decision follows. While this would not warrant
a conviction in a criminal court where the defendant must be
proved guilty beyond all reasonable doubt, it is sufficient in
the civil hearing. Now, what does scandal do ? It presumes
that if a young man takes an interest in a girl, and she in him,
they possess the required disposition. If they lacked this she
would go her way toward the state of the old maid, and he
136 SEX MAGNETISM
would go his way. Being interested in each other, and being
inclined to get away from the rest of the world, is some evidence
of the nature that is in them. But it is not until the oppor-
tunity is given them that scandal begins her work. This
opportunity may occur in any one of scores of chances to be
alone and wholly apart from all intrusion. If the young man
is of evil intent, he will lead her away before she is aware
of his purpose ; while he entertains her with wonderful stories
about his honour and prowess in matters that interest girls.
It may be some college game, or riding, or driving, or some
exploit in the army or navy, or on the plains, or some enter-
prise that is of large importance to her mind, or other thing
that can hold her attention. If he is in the twenties and
has had experience with girls and women, he will talk grand
thoughts, make grand plans, build hopes that tower over the
commonplace routine of her unvarying life, and so lure her on ;
all the while she is being led to seclusion where opportunity is
complete.
6. The man who is several years older than the girl is the
more to be feared than one who is nearer to her ;
although
the rule of the chaperone should never be broken. A whole
family, or younger child, or a parent in a room or location
near at hand, may suffice as chaperone. But the older man,
one who may be from three to thirty years older than the
girl, is to be watched in proportion as the difference in the
ages is greater. Men who are forty, fifty, and even sixty,
make prey of girls in their teens if once they can interest the
latter.
7. The woman who is older than the young man may be
of a different character. If she is not already bad, she will
remain as she is during their friendship. It is a pleasant
thing to have a boy in his teens befriended, advised, and looked
after in an ethical sense by an older woman, if scandal cannot
find ground for its active tongue. Always pay homage to
scandal. It is your best friend. It can never harm the
discreet. If it finds an entering wedge in your life, it will be
due, not necessarily to your own wrongs, but to your careless-
ness and indiscretion. You cannot defy it. You cannot declare
that you will do as you please, and people can talk all they
please. It is true that the most moral persons are often the
GETTING TOGETHER 137
most indiscreet, but they suffer in a good cause. It is also true
that thousands of girls have been deterred from wrong-doing,
as well as indiscretion, by the fear of scandal. So do not
lessen this most excellent servitor by defying it. No good will
come from boldness in the matter. Men who seek pure wives,
as all men do, will keep away from the woman who has been
maligned, even if she is chaste. If she has been talked about,
she has done something to invite the discussion. There has
never been a case of scandal that was groundless, except
where the identity of a person was lost or mixed with another.
Recently a woman who looked exactly like another woman of
about the same age, was charged with an offence of which
she proved her innocence by showing that she was many
hundred miles away at the time. But the allegations were so
direct and so clear that it was supposed another woman of
the same appearance was the guilty party. Detectives found
the other woman. The two were brought into court, and each
in turn was identified as the same person by three accusing
witnesses. But such cases are comparatively rare.
Discretion is always a virtue.
8. There are cases where women in the thirties have held
sway over the hearts of boys ; and where women in the forties
have done the same thing ; while grey-haired old women, small
in stature and dainty in manners have, without wealth,
attracted youths. Of course, most old women with wealth
can secure a husband from almost any rank of men, even boys
having taken rich wives and waited for the time of release,
or else spent their fortunes and vanished to distant parts.
Motive is a matter that should be studied in proportion as the
normal conditions are changed. An old man prefers a young
wife to an old one, other things being equal : for youth and
beauty are excellent substitutes for wealth. But the reverse
is not as often true. The boy will naturally shrink from the
old woman, and motive must be sought in order to straighten
out the appearance of crooked design. If such a feeling as
genuine appreciation can exist in the young heart, advice
should be taken before marriage is contemplated. It is
fortunate that such cases are rare ;
although there are
hundreds of marriages taking place every year between young
men or boys and women altogether too old for them.
138 SEX MAGNETISM
9. A great discrepancy in age should be looked upon as
suspicious where the older party is rich.
10. There are real friendships between boys and old women
in the fifties and sixties who are legally qualified to marry,
but between whom there exists no intention more serious than
appreciation and friendship. As a rule, there is some reason
for such affiliation. It may be some accomplishment of the
older person, as where a woman of eighty was a splendid
linguist, and had the friendship of a boy of nineteen, who
was himself somewhat accomplished in the same line. As
soon as he began to take an interest in her ability, he called
as often as she desired, and this grew to be so frequent that
tongues wagged ; but her grand-nephews wore chaperones,
and nothing really wicked was suggested. The effect on the
old woman was to brighten her up, and to cause her to observe
herself more closely in dress and manners. They said of her
that she had gone back thirty years in her age. The strangest
of all things, however, was the fact that when this boy married,
as he did in two years, his girl-wife cut short the visits to the
aged friend. Jealousy plays many odd freaks in a century.
11. The animal nature in a young man rejects the idea of
any kind of alliance with an old woman. Yet an old man is
a burden to her. No old woman ought to marry an old man.
If she cannot get one who is young enough and healthy enough
to take care of her infirmities, then she ought to withdraw
from the competition. There is no natural reason why some
of the young men of the present day should not marry old
women, if the latter are poor and need care and support.
There are no material bodily differences between the woman
of thirty and the woman of sixty, except in the face.
Let, then, the young man make friends with the old woman.
He will not do himself any harm by doing so, and he will
do her a great deal of good.
Never mind the face. Keep the teeth cleaned. Almost ail
old women and the majority of young men have plates. Let
them be kept fresh and in good condition by the use of the
alum and zinc wash, which, as has been said, can be made
for a penny or two a quart. Then the husband will have the
same conditions to face as he would have in the girl-wife on
an average. A dentist of national repute has said that, in
GETTING TOGETHER 139
the next generation, there would be few girls out of their
teens who did not wear plates.
There are the same organs in the old woman as in the young.
If she is careful in diet and applies the good old common-
sense in cooking that has come up from the past generations
out of which she is a product, then her health and that of
her husband will become better as the years pass on. The
younger women do not know how to cook well ; and most
of them do not intend to cook at all. The older women are
all natural cooks, and if they are healthy at seventy it is
evidence of a conclusive character that they know how to
cook for the preservation of the health of themselves and
their husbands. In this connection a well-known authority
visiting a Domestic Science Exhibition said :
" For want of
good cooking more homes are broken up and more separations
result than from any other cause. Lack of knowledge of this
kind is the most fruitful cause of the unwillingness of men to
remain husbands, for ill health, arising in the home where
good health should be found, if anywhere, is sure to drive
them to the courts. The new interest wives are taking in
the science of cooking is to be commended."
But cooking schools need civilization.
The young women are not only bad cooks, or none at all,
but they are themselves invalids, despite the attempts to
colour up and to powder up for the visits of their male friends.
If a young man wants health and attention at home, he must
seek the wife who is two generations his senior ; and there
are some who are only one generation older who will make
splendid wives. His choice among the women of his own age
or younger will not be an improvement on this plan ; for he
will be plunged into a home of chronic invalidism, weak
children and expenses of every kind. The cost of maintaining
a home with an old wife will be less than one-half, and her *
desires will lessen his expenses in every way. She will dress
more quietly, and have only one interest in her home. She
will not stay out in the afternoons and evenings, nor join
bridge parties. She will be temperate and moderate, will
have an even temper and pleasing habits.
The final objection is that her temperament may not be
as agreeable as that of the younger wife. Much will depend
140 SEX MAGNETISM
on how obstinate she may be. If she is attired in shoddy styles
of dressing, she will give evidence of that fault before marriage.
If she has set ways and notions that are stiff and unchange-
able, drop her and seek one who can modify her habits of mind
to suit your wishes. If she has money do not pay her atten-
tion ; for you will be charged with mercenary motives, the
meanest of all accusations when one person takes an interest
in another.
The unfitness of temperament in husband and wife is the
cause of quarrels. Two bodies conflict in proportion as they
approach each other too often. The difference of feelings
and of methods may be very pleasing where there is a real
interest each in the other. This difference of temperament
is a common experience, and its results are much more favour-
able for happiness in a marriage between a young man and an
old woman than when two persons of about the same age are
wed to each other.
There are many thousands of marriages between old men
and young women and generally to the disadvantage of the
former. The demands that young wives make on the vitality
of old men are such that long life is impossible. The records
show that of every hundred weddings between young women,
or women under forty, with men over sixty, the average age
of the latter is less than eighteen months. Many die in the
year ;
quite a number die on their honeymoon ;
and hardly
one lives four years. This has given the world a race of young
widows. Doctors advise most strenuously against old men
marrying ; but if they must marry, let them avoid the woman
who is full of vigour and youth ; for it is only a mild form of
suicide. But doctors are agreed that the old woman can wed
the young man, as the results are reversed. The child of an
old man and a young woman is an old child ; it will be senile
long before its time. On the other hand, there will be no
child resulting from the marriage of an old woman with any
man.
A young woman who wishes much attention from an old
man will miss her desires. He may become the father of a
child or two, but such events will be desultory even if sought.
There will be a coldness in all his display of affection that
will mar the daily life of the wife. His kisses and embraces
GETTING TOGETHER 141
will be weak and chilling. The male is the natural suitor,
and when he lacks the red blood of vital energy, the wife
will be discontented. On the other hand, the old woman is
always a willing recipient of attentions of every kind, especially
from a young man who cares for her as a husband should.
Age is supposedly weaker than youth, for which reason the
feeble, but healthy, old wife of a young man will play in
harmony with the difference between the two sexes. A strong
wife and a weak husband are a discord ; while a weak wife
and a strong husband are in accord with the plan of life.
All these suggestions assume that there is to be a disparity
in the ages of the parties. Where such difference exists it is
better that the extremes should meet in the aged wife and the
young husband, rather than in the aged man and the young
wife. The latter case is always disastrous. We have had
records of more than two hundred marriages of very old
women with very young men, and there has never been one
case reported as a failure. A certain liking for the enormous
margin of years seems to fascinate the man. We have taken
the trouble to search out a dozen of these boy-husbands, and
have had conversations with them. In one case a lad of nine-
teen wed a woman of sixty-three. She weighed 7 stone when
the ceremony took place, and gained over a stone in two
years. She was an adept at housework, was a fine cook, could
mend and attend to all the details of the home, and had a
high degree of book learning and intelligence. At the date
of the engagement she possessed no money and few clothes ;
but was given an outfit by her sister. She had never been
married before, and could, therefore, be set down as a con-
firmed old maid.
The lad of nineteen married her, as he confessed, because
he had no faith in the cooking abilities and household qualities
of the girls of his acquaintance. He wanted a home more
than he wanted a wife. He earned one hundred and fifty
pounds a year at the time. Since then he has risen to much
better wages. " Forty-four years is a big difference in ages/'
he said, " but I don't mind it. I am satisfied. If I had it to
do over again, I would do the same thing. My wife is a better
wife than any of the boys of my acquaintance found that
have got married. I think she is neater about the house,
142 SEX MAGNETISM
and cleaner in every way. I do not know how any woman
could be any more attractive than she is to me. I do not know
as I love her as people think they love when they court, but
I guess I think more of her than husbands think of their wives,
if the papers tell the truth."
In another case a young man of twenty-six married a
woman of seventy-four. He had known her about seven
years. When married she weighed just over 8 stone, and
gained 2 stone in three years. She was an old maid also, and
so were her four sisters. They had all been school teachers,
holding their positions for many years. The bride was poor,
having lost her savings in investments. There was no incen-
tive to wed her for any supposition of money-getting, as she
was about to accept the charity of an institution when this
young man saved her by making her his wife. It was ten
years later that we talked with him about the marriage, and
she was then eighty-four years of age ; but she really did not
look more than fifty, except for her white hair. She had a
rather full face, and was the very picture of neatness and
elegance. The young husband was certainly very proud of
her. In a private conversation he made the statement some-
what as follows :
" I was a rather unsteady boy up to a year
before my marriage. I had knocked about a great deal, and
was not of good moral habits in every way. I told the woman
whom I asked to marry me all about myself, keeping nothing
from her. She was very poor, and my wages were not large.
But she has made a man of me. I have never spent any evening
away from her since the marriage. All errands I have done
before coming home at the end of the day's work. She asked
of me one favour, and that was for me not to leave her alone
in the house after dark ; so when I went out I took her with
me. She is very lively, and can walk five miles any day,
even at the age of eighty-four. She loves the home, and
takes an interest in every part of it. Honestly, I do not think
there is any difference between a young woman and an old
woman as a wife. I never married before this, and she never
did. But I was wild, and I know something of the world,
and I say it is true that the aged wife who has her health is
the superior of the young woman in every way."
He was at that time holding a responsible position as a
GETTING TOGETHER 143
head gardener with an excellent salary, and his home was a
dream of comfort and neatness. We took supper with the
couple, and she had no notice of the expected company ; but
the meal would put to shame ninety-nine young wives out of
any hundred that might be found. She refused to talk of the
discrepancy in their ages, and it was not wise to mention the
matter, after a single remark that told her how beautiful the
home was in the opinion of the guest, and that it had more
attractions than other homes. It was evident that she did
not wish to encourage the conversation in that direction.
But afterwards the young husband said :
" She is glad to
have your good opinion of her home, and would advise you to
select for your young men friends as good wives as you think
she is."
Sensible old women do not try to make themselves look
young in their dress. That would be a mistake ; but they are
justified in making their face as smooth as possible, and other-
wise keeping up their general condition. Neatness, cleanliness
and charming manners are important ; but not flashy colours
or reproductions of the display of young girls. There is more
reason for an old woman keeping within the limits of good
taste in dress than of others ; although all females should
avoid the dowdy on the one hand and the sensational on the
other.
It is our opinion that every young man should pass a
state of probation in marriage with some woman who is two
generations older than himself. This proposition may not be
received seriously, and some readers will think it ridiculous.
If marriage with a girl is only a compact for physical union
why make it a legal compact ? Why not let matters go on
as they are going to-day ? In one city there are over three
thousand women, mostly girls, who secure their living in this
way, and have no legal complications. Their men friends
must, in the nature of things, number five to one, or there
would be no profit; and this means fully fifteen ' thousand
men who are untrue either to themselves alone, or to their
wives as well as themselves.
This is the record in only one city. There are other cities
that have the same ratio. There must, therefore, be thousands
of men who are immoral. A large majority of these men
144 SEX MAGNETISM
are married, but are untrue to their wedding vows. They
cannot love their wives. It would have been much better
for them to have omitted dragging girls from homes of virtue
to be stained with the foulness of this kind of deceit ; for
the husband who is a patron of a house of ill-fame is sure to
carry some portion of the stain to his wife. As they did not
marry for love, but only for the animal union, they would
have been nobler men had they passed the marriage state by.
They have done an endless wrong to young women whose
lives are thrown into the turmoil of separation and divorce.
Such false marriages cannot long endure.
The defenders of these men claim that they in time reform
and become good citizens. They sow their wild oats with
their first wives, and during their marriage to their first wives ;
and then are ready to settle down with second wives and
become model citizens. This seems to be the history of a
large number of this class of husbands.
Girls who had dreamed when in their youth of happy
homes and royal consorts, whose gallantry would shine at
every step of the way, are made to stand face to face with
the terrible sins of brothel life as it is forced upon them by
criminal husbands. These girls fall by the wayside ; some by
sickness ;
many by suicide ;
many by divorce, and many by
disappearing. Had they never met those fellows whom the
law gave to them, they would have grown up into woman-
hood and have fitted themselves for some profession or useful
occupation, out of which they might have been taken by better
men into happy homes. Now their lives are blighted.
Such husbands should pass a state of probation with older
women. The latter may live a few years, or many years ;
but not half as long as their young husbands ;
and then the
latter, having been on probation, will be ready and fit for
their second marriage to other women nearer their age. No
wrong will have been done to innocent girls. No young fives
will have been blighted. No children will have been brought
into the world to become half-orphans because their parents
have separated. The husband and widower of an aged wife
will make the best and most experienced of husbands when
he comes to marry his second and younger wife. The latter
will be spared both divorce and disloyalty, and will have
GETTING TOGETHER 145
many advantages that will serve to make her home most
happy as long as she lives.
In the absence of the state of probation just mentioned
there should be other periods of probation on the following
basis :
1 . The young man who wishes to marry the young woman,
both being in their teens, should wait not less than five years
without a definite betrothal. Both should be free.
2. The young man in his teens who wishes to marry a
woman who is at least ten years older than he is should wait
a year before being engaged.
3. The young man in his teens who wishes to marry a
woman at least twenty years older than he is, may do so as
soon as he is able to support her ; and the older she is than
he the more reason there is why he should wed her, if there is
a practical assurance of his being able to support her. If she
has money and he is poor, the wedding should not be per-
mitted unless it is free from all mercenary motives.
4. The young man in his twenties who wishes to marry
the girl in her teens should wait at least three years before
they are engaged.
5. The man in the thirties who wishes to marry a girl in
her teens should wait at least a year before being engaged,
and there should be a freedom from all apprehension as to
how the family will be supported.
6. The man above the thirties who wishes to marry a
girl in her teens should wait at least two years before they
are engaged. If she has money, and he is not well-to-do,
then it is better to wait still longer to see if his ambition can
be stimulated to better himself.
7. The man in the twenties who wishes to marry a young
woman in the twenties, should wait at least four years before
being engaged.
8. The man in the thirties who wishes to marry a young
woman in the twenties, should wait at least three years before
the betrothal, and she should be sure he can support a family.
9. A man in the forties who wishes to marry a young
woman in the twenties should wait at least a year before
being engaged. No man older than the forties should marry
a woman under thirty.
io
146 SEX MAGNETISM
10. A man in the thirties who wishes to marry a woman
in the thirties should wait at least two years before being
engaged.
11. A man in the forties who wishes to marry a woman
in the thirties should not be engaged until they have known
each other for three or more years. No man above the forties
should marry a woman in the forties or older.
12. When a man is in the sixties he should not marry at
all. If he is married, he will by that time be physically
weakened, and married life will be taken conservatively. But
to pass from the habits of non-marriage to those of marriage
is surely to shorten his days.
There can be no objection to a wide difference in the ages
of the parties, except that old men and young women are
always badly mated, unless they are wed before the age of
sixty for the elder side. If old men must marry, they should
select with care women who are not too feeble to look after
them, and who are not too vigorous to take their vitality.
But the line is drawn tightly at sixty in this respect, and fifty-
five is still a better place for the division when the man is
entering the married state.
The greatest mistake that can be made by young men in
their teens and in the twenties is to omit an interest in women
who are much their seniors. The friendship of such women
is worth a vast deal to all young men who are under the age
of thirty. This is, of course, on condition that the women
are free and have a right to receive such attentions, and that
the young men have a right to give them. Married women
and engaged women are not included in the list. In every
locality and community a young man should have a list of all
the unmarried and unengaged women who are older than he is ;
and the older the better. They should then become acquainted
with them, and institute social meetings where they can come
into each other's companionship attended by a chaperone or
in groups of three or more to avoid discussion from outsiders.
The greater the regard and respect of the public for the good
names of its women the better the moral atmosphere all about.
Every man under thirty needs the influence of women
who are older than he is. The custom is the reverse. Mature
unmarried women are looked upon as wall-flowers and left-
GETTING TOGETHER 147
overs ; but the fact is that they have escaped much by their
patience. They have seen their girl friends grow up, get
married, quarrel, separate from their husbands and go through
the divorce courts, or worse, while they themselves have been
submissive to the fate that has cast them on the island of
singleness. This is no idle theory. Let us look at ten cases
that arose under our advice during the past thirty years :
1. The young man was a plumber. His father had been a
plumber and had retired. The young man was making money
rapidly when he was twenty-two years old. He had over
forty girls from whom he could select a wife. Seventeen of
these were in their teens, and some of them were very pretty.
Eight of them were a year or two older than he ; and the others
were from three to fourteen years his seniors. Which one
should he select for a wife % He thought he loved a pretty
miss of nineteen ; but he was rather practical, and paid no
attention to his feelings of love. In his dilemma he came for
advice, and was told to marry a girl who was eleven years
older than he ; an account of this woman having been given,
as of the others. She really cared for him, and was a good
housewife, although he was able to employ help in the home.
They were married, and the union proved a great success.
They have grown old together, and she is still young to the
eye and in her manner.
2. A young man, the son of a grocer, and himself in the
business with his father, at the age of twenty-four married
a woman ten years older than he was. He had a fine wife,
and has been supremely happy all through the wedlock. He
selected this woman against his feelings of love for a girl of
eighteen. He says :
" I do not love my wife. I adore her."
3. Another man of twenty-four, a lawyer who had been in
practice for two years, and who was making a good impression
on the public by his honesty and ability, was violently in love
with a girl of eighteen, but agreed that he had the will power
to take whatever woman should be proved to his judgment
the most likely to bring happiness to him. This was a lady
of thirty-seven, thirteen years his senior. He had not made
known his love for the maiden in her teens, and so was free
to wed the woman in her thirties. Just before the wedding
he said : "I still love Joyce, but she does not know it, and
148 SEX MAGNETISM
my wife-to-be loves me, I do believe, most sincerely." Happi-
ness followed the wedding, and he has lived to rejoice at his
fate. The younger girl was not worthy of a good man, as her
life afterwards proved. She never knew how near she came
to receiving a proposal from the man who is now a well-known
judge.
4. A young man of twenty-five married a woman of thirty-
two. They have had five children, and the family is prosperous,
and all are in good circumstances.
5. A young man of twenty, inheriting a small fortune and
a good business, fell in love with a woman of twenty-three ;
but was advised to marry an older woman, one who was nine
years his senior. This he did, and succeeded in establishing
a happy home and a fine family.
6. A man of twenty-eight married a woman of forty-five.
They had a child in a year, much to their surprise. At that
time she was of dark complexion, and severely wrinkled for
a woman not any older. She was thin and slender, while her
husband was stout and fair. The child was like its father,
and we have often seen the wrinkled mother pushing the baby
carriage along the streets of a town as she went forth to meet
her young husband coming from his office. She began after a
while to take an interest in making her face smooth ; the
wrinkles disappeared, and she grew younger to the eye for
many years.
7. A boy of nineteen, who was in love with a woman of
thirty-six, and who had set up an income-producing business
of his own, induced her to elope with him. She suddenly left
her position as a school teacher without notice, and was
married to the boy. His business prospered to a remarkable
extent, and to-day he is a man of wealth. She still lives, and
they have been happy all the time. The seventeen years
between them are nothing, as they both declare and believe.
8. A boy of eighteen, who was very much in love with a
fine girl of the same age, was rejected. Out of spite he proposed
to a woman of thirty, who had been a seamstress in his father's
employ, and, to his surprise, she accepted him on condition
that he marry her before he could change his mind. Under
advice he did this. They are living together now, and have
been very happy all the time.
GETTING TOGETHER 149
9. A young man of twenty was in love with a girl who
loved another. He married on impulse a woman of forty-two.
They have prospered, and are living in content at this time.
10. A young man of twenty-seven fell in love with a very
pretty girl of eighteen, and they were engaged. After a quarrel,
in which she returned his ring, he followed advice and never
called on her again. He married a woman who was thirty-
nine. They have been happy, and are prosperous at this date,
having risen from a humble home to one of opulence.
In all these ten cases there has been a steady flow of success
to all the parties. They have not quarrelled, and have found
the advanced years of the woman side of the affiliation an
advantage, instead of being a disadvantage, to the state of
wedlock. In many other cases of marriage of young men to
women older by a number of years we have never found a
separation or a divorce, or any serious friction in their com-
panionship where there has been a reasonable discretion used
in the affairs. When a young man who was drunk was led to
a marriage with a woman of the town, he fled from it on
coming to his senses. Certain stray cases may be found that
are unworthy of entering into the discussion ; but there is
no case of decent people marrying in which the husband is
much younger than the wife where there has ever been a
separation ; at least, we cannot find such a case.
Some years ago we came to the conclusion that love was
a reason for not marrying. This was contrary to our own
belief of many years before. Since then we have submitted
our reasons privately to physicians, clergymen, judges, and
thoughtful men and women whose advice might be of benefit.
At first thought it seemed contrary to all precedent, and in
violation of all rules of human conduct. But proof was
abundant that love was blind. This defect in its sight is
still admitted everywhere. No person pretends to believe that
love can see.
All good citizens should uphold that system that will make
marriage the most enduring and the most successful.
If love will not accomplish this result, then it should yield
to the rules of good judgment and common sense. If love is
founded on good judgment and common sense, then it is the
basis of marriage ; otherwise it is not.
150 SEX MAGNETISM
How many girls are there in their teens or twenties, or at
any age, who, when they are engaged to worthy, but poor,
young men will not find a reason for breaking the engagement
when some worthy, but rich, men come along ? How many
girls and women are not interested in the news that a millionaire
is about to come in their midst ? The fact of being betrothed
to another man does not deter them from accepting a sure
engagement from one who is rich and equally qualified to make
a husband that can maintain a grand home. A football
captain from a great university came into the possession of
twenty thousand pounds. He made the statement that every
pretty girl who was engaged to be married to young men fully
as well prepared for marriage as he was, except as to the money
advantages, sought him, and he was interested in knowing
how many of them would break faith with their sweethearts.
Not one of them had the slightest hesitation if she could be
sure of winning the football captain.
Girls who stand no chance of immediately bettering their
positions are filled with energetic loyalty to their promises
but the certainty of securing wealth soon tells the real
story. It is a very common remark with such a girl, or
with any girl who is engaged, to say :
" I would not give a
penny for the heart of a girl who would drop a poor man she
loved for a rich man she did not love." But the marriages of
the poor men who are loved speak for themselves. Most of
them are abject failures. Most of them are totally devoid of
all love in thirty days after the honeymoon is over. As soon
as the drudgery and the neglect begin, it is the end of romance.
" Jack will not neglect me, will you, Jack ? " says the confiding
bride who is trying to make water and flour stick together
long enough to put in the pan to be baked. And Jack says he
will not. So he kisses her and goes down town to the club for
three hours of smoking and fellow-fun, while wifie is at home, in
the midst of dirt and foul air, wondering where she will see the
end of the toil that her maiden life never revealed to her.
Jack says to himself that it is a good place to get out of for an
evening.
Lift the curtain on any home, or on any condition of
marriage which has been founded on love rather than on the
principles of common sense, and the one girl in a thousand who
GETTING TOGETHER 151
would not give up the man she loved for the richest millionaire
on earth is now ready to do anything to shake off the terrible
shackles which her sentiment forged about her life.
It is not surprising that young wives who have left in their
faces and bodies any semblance of the old beauty drift to
houses or lives of shame, or seek legal separation. There are
very few homes to-day where there is any cementing bond of
love or affection where once it was the belief that the love was
so strong that each party to the union would do anything for
the other ; and now the strong husband will not bring up a
scuttle of coal for the weak wife, as he must read the evening
paper if he stays in at nights ; and if he cannot stay in and
rest he must go down town, to be with his old pals.
Young wives hate to confess their failures in marriage ; but
young husbands do a lot of talking when with their old friends.
It can be set down as a safe rule of conclusions that there
is not one marriage in ten that was founded on love that has
been sustained as well by reason of that love as by the rules
of judgment and good sense.
Most, if not all, parents want their daughters to be happy.
When asked their opinion as to a choice between two men,
one of whom the girl loves and the other of whom she believes
to be the more desirable man ; or if it comes down to selecting
one from motives of love and another from motives of judgment
and good sense, the parents will not advise the love match.
A true love match between two persons who are otherwise
qualified to marry is the best ; but the qualifications come
first and love second. The latter will never take the place of
those essentials of a successful union that are indispensable
to success—good judgment and practical sense. If there is
nothing but love as a reason why two persons should marry,
it will prove nothing on which to marry. It is the most
evanescent of all feelings. It cannot withstand an ordinary
storm, and takes wings before adversity. " When poverty
comes in at the door love flies out the window," is a very old
and very true maxim. But it is not poverty alone that drives
it forth ; a quarrel will do as much ;
disappointment in the
other party, which is almost universal, will do as much ; and
the facts stated in the third chapter of this book will tell why
many wives and many husbands, on waking to find the animal
152 SEX MAGNETISM
habits of their consorts so pronounced, will wonder why they
ever entered into the marriage state.
The curtain should never rise.
The kind of love that can endure for a day the habits
suggested in that third chapter is wholly blind, and what
is so blind as that can never be a safe guide to any state
of existence.
The general rule is that love matches are failures. A
general rule is established when sixty per cent of events are on
one side of the account ; but it is a proved fact that fully
ninety per cent of all love matches are failures from the
standpoint of love. Less than one in ten remains a love
union.
On the other hand, of all the matches that have been made
by long deliberation, by thorough preparation for the new
conditions, and by the exercise of a sound judgment, not more
than three in a hundred have been failures. Ninety-seven
per cent have succeeded. Here is a rule made clear by the
tables of percentages from which all safe rules are derived.
If more than ninety in every hundred of the matches that have
been founded on love, to the exclusion of good judgment, have
been failures, and if ninety-seven in every hundred that have
been deliberately founded on good judgment have been
successes, then the rule is established beyond all doubt ;
and
these data can be readily verified.
Before a person is committed to the promise of marriage
let the information of the first five chapters of this book be fully
digested and absorbed by repeated readings ;
and let it sway
the mind and personal habits. No mistake can then occur.
The later use of the power of Sex Magnetism will add success
to success, and bring the grandest of all victories. But those
five chapters are necessary for the first success, and for the
first step in the engagement, if it has not already been taken.
This same course of instruction was taught more than a quarter
of a century ago, and it has been the guiding light to many
happy unions that have been founded on its teachings. Where
they have been carefully adopted there has been no failure.
The percentage of success has been one hundred. Therefore,
you can make no error in following the teachings of the first
five chapters.
GETTING TOGETHER 153
The steps to be taken to determine the availability of the
two parties to an engagement are as follows :
1. Deliberation. This means that both parties should know
as much as possible of each other in disposition, in habits, in
readiness for the duties of home life, and in other qualifications
for the union.
2. Preparation. This means that each party should under-
stand that marriage imposes new duties of all kinds for both
of them. There are also many vicissitudes that cannot arise
until after the state is entered upon. These may be surmised,
and many of them may be ascertained by inquiry. The man
should have some male friends who can post him ; and the
woman should have women friends who can furnish her with
all the conditions that will confront the new couple.
Deliberation means waiting. The promise to marry ends
the first part of the deliberation, and renders ineffectual the
greatest of all human laws, which impels those who are in doubt
as to the intents of others to raise their own standards of merit
so as to win against such doubt. No greater mistake can be
made than for the man to offer marriage and ask to be engaged,
or for the woman to agree to become betrothed. The knot is
tied then and there in many lives. The freedom that comes
from a state of non-engagement is both wholesome and healthy.
It is the vantage ground of life.
Of all the nuisances in the world of a girl is the young
man in his teens who is infatuated with a charming maiden.
He is never quite sane, and many such boys have gone insane
in the past and killed young girls who refused their offer of
marriage. Most of the boys then committed suicide, showing
the insanity of love. The maiden should be kept as much away
from the lads as possible. Commonness of acquaintance should
be allowed only when some functions of a social nature are being
given, where the boys are on their best behaviour, and the
girls are also at their best. To throw the two sexes together
in a common way is sure to invite some silly and wild-brain
of a boy to make love at a time when he is no more able to
know his own mind than he is the mind of an elephant running
amok.
The analysis of love shows that it is merely the development
of puberty, or sexual unfolding.
154 SEX MAGNETISM
It is never present where there is a lack of this nature.
If you take away the male power, you destroy for ever the
feeling of love as it exists in the boy or man. This has been
abundantly proved. It is likewise true in woman ;
for there
are many cases of operation to remove the ovaries that have
been followed by all loss of the love nature that had been
strong before.
The passionate song of the poet, as reflected in Burns, or
in Byron, is but the same feeling of physical intensity. Neither
poet, nor any other of the love poets, could have written their
lays of passion immediately after gratification. War and
pestilence and the stern realism of fife would have then occupied
their minds. Had either Burns or Byron or any of the love
poets been emasculated, all their love songs would have died
out after that event.
In the case of a general, prominent in history, who was
also a most gallant and ardent lover, an accident made him a
eunuch ; and after that occurrence he was unable to feel or
display, or even to talk of love. Woman to him was a friend,
but no longer a sweetheart.
Boys that play hard or work hard and keep mind and body
busy are not often dragged down by a strong love for a girl.
Their energies have gone out into their usefulness. In propor-
tion as the mind and the faculties are idle or partly employed
will the feeling of love grow into intensity and become an
infatuation. Hard-working boys who are not left much alone,
or in the companionship of other boys, are free from this
disease of the nervous system, for love in the teens is only a
disease. The father who cares for his boy should have him
educated in all the branches of a common education, and
should also take care of his evenings and his spare hours,
beginning about the age of fifteen, and continuing until he is of
age. This is a tax on the time and the love of the father for
six or seven years ; but it will pay much better than to let
the boy drift away. There are few, if any, boys that would
not prefer the companionship of their fathers to that of the
lads who hover about them with all sorts of temptations. If
the boy is worth saving, he is worth the sacrifice of time that
the father may render him in these years of change and
development.
GETTING TOGETHER 155
The daughter is generally closer to the mother than the lad
is to his father ; but it is a matter of disappointment to know
that mothers do not, as a rule, accept their companionship as
freely as they should. There should be hardly a minute when
the daughter's occupation is unknown to the mother. If she
is at school the mother should know it. Any absence or
partial absence should be reported to the home by the teachers,
under a private understanding. Any wandering off with
other girls should be checked at the very outset. Daughters
should be warned of the danger of having girl friends, for
the first sins of the maiden life are giving their seed in that
companionship.
Mothers have been able to hold the society of their boys,
as well as their girls, thus excluding the outward temptations.
Some women plan to have their sons escort them. There are
women who attend church, or evening gatherings, or make
visits in the charge of boys not over fifteen to twenty
years of age. Thus the mother becomes the sweetheart of
the lad.
By proper planning it is possible for women to keep their
girls always under their eye. If the practice is begun too late,
when the girl is already a fixed companion of several other
girls, and the special friend and run-about of one in particular,
it will cause too much friction to intervene ; but the future
of the girl is not safe even then. The miss who is most anxious
for the companionship of a good girl is the one who is most
dangerous. She is persistent, and helps herself with the boys
that float about by the display of the friendship existing
between her and the other girl. She is continually making
engagements, and calling for her friend to come out with her,
or to come over to her house when there is no intention of
going there ; and so there will arise the clandestine meetings in
places that are not wholesome for a pure maiden.
It is a good rule that companionship of boys with boys is
not as good for them as the companionship of the boy with
his father ;
that the mother and daughter should be the closest
of friends, and the attachment of girls away from home, or
of one out of her home even for an hour at a time, or for any
interval, is not good for the girl. Let parents make their boys
and girls when in the teens their most welcome companions.
156 SEX MAGNETISM
Begin before puberty is advanced ;
always in the first months
of the sixteenth year, and sooner than that if possible. Cut
off all private friendship outside. Keep the girls where the
boys cannot make love to them. Do not allow boys to
come around the home to see the girls, unless they come
to social functions where there is no separation into
couples. Keep up a general acquaintance, and put a check
at once to all forms of special acquaintance. The two sexes
should meet publicly and openly, but never privately at that
time of life.
Many years ago, at the advice of physicians and others,
parents in a certain city agreed that it was right to explain
puberty to their sons and daughters, and to begin when it was
first making itself manifest to the young people. They spoke
of it as the cause of that peculiar sentiment called love and
infatuation. They made it so clear that the boys and girls
completely met this love nature as it developed, and what
might have driven some of them into hasty engagements was
taken in a philosophical manner, and allowed to die with their
increase of mental work ; for it is a fact in physiology that
the harder the brain works the less the heart loves, and the
smaller will be the sexual nature. The faults of boys have
been cured by healthful studies that were hard and all-absorb-
ing. Give the lad all he can do with his mind, and all the
ambition needed to make something of himself, and his error
will die out and never return. Such boys become deliberate
in their love-making, and are not hasty in marrying. It is
only when the sexual intensity sways the mind that bad
marriages are made. Reverse this condition, and let the mind
sway the sexual nature, and error will cease almost at once,
and so will love.
What is better than love will take its place.
The girl whose mind is absorbed in mental progress of a
hard character will not fall into a hasty love. It is for this
reason that most old maids are intellectual, for they wait and
wait, lacking the fire, until they are left in the whirl by the
men who know no better than to seek the young face and the
doll heart. If men knew themselves better and wanted homes
and happiness, they would never look to any women except
the old maids. There, and there alone, is the certainty of
GETTING TOGETHER 157
happiness. The giddy girls, the faces that fade as they pass
out of their honeymoons, the inexperienced hearts and hands,
make no true wives.
Mental work, hard study and fine intelligence drive out
love in young hearts, and deliberation follows. The most in-
telligent of women are those who are, or were, old maids. They
are the most sensible. They have by far the better education.
Many of them have been school teachers ; and where the brain
is greatly employed the sexual nature is almost wholly de-
pressed, much to the benefit of the mind and body. " Had I
to choose over again, were I young and in search of a wife,
knowing all I know of the world, my first choice, and only
choice, would be the woman of intelligence who had grown up
free from all feelings of sexual love, even if she were much my
senior," was the statement made by a man of great prominence
in the world.
A graduate of a well-known University, who was twenty-
one years of age, and who had come into a large fortune, was
besieged by many young and pretty girls of the best families.
An alliance with almost any one of them would have been to
his financial and social advantage, and yet he could not accept
such a fate. " I have no wish to marry a girl," he said. " I
want an old maid school teacher. I do not know just who she
will be, but I am going out into the world and get acquainted
with some woman whose life has been an open book, who has
taught in school for fifteen or twenty years, and who is in her
thirties or forties." He took his time, and eventually found
a woman of very sweet face, who was decidedly intellectual
She was teaching when he met her. She was thirty-four at
the time. No man had ever fallen in love with her. This wife-
hunter made himself friendly with her, and called to see her
at the home of her parents, where she lived.
The meeting came about by an accident of such a nature
that she did not suspect that she was being hunted down like
a wild animal in the lair. The visits to the home were not
apparently planned, and she merely asked him to call again at
his pleasure, if he desired. He did call again, and rather often.
In six months it began to be rumoured that this graduate of
such a well-known University and man of fortune was making
love to a woman almost old enough to be his mother. At the
158 SEX MAGNETISM
end of a year he proposed, and she refused him, on account of
the difference in their ages and her lack of love for him. This
refusal made him the more determined, but a second year went
by before she agreed to marry him, and then only with the
understanding that she did not, and never could, love him.
But did she respect him ? Yes. Once after their marriage,
when he was stricken with fever and likely to die, she realized
that there was something in her heart stronger than love that
prompted her to a willingness to lay down her own life for his
sake. " I do not know what this feeling is," she said. " It is
not love, and it seems stronger than adoration, for I have
adored him for a long time, and now I regard him in a holier
light than that." Whatever the feeling was it mounted higher
than love in her life, and she was the happiest woman in the
world, as she thought, when he got past the crisis. Stay in the
room with him day and night ? Yes, she did ;
and she kept a
watchful eye on every moment of his flickering life as the days
came and went during which her fate and his were to be sealed
in that awful suspense of sickness.
With what wonder she looked back on the night when she
said,
" No," to his offer of marriage, and kept him waiting a
year for his answer !
Now that he was convalescent and out of danger, and the
new future with him was opening in all its dazzling bright-
ness, she clasped his hand in hers, and the tears of thank-
fulness fell over her arm, pale with the fading of her vitality ;
an arm that a few days later wound itself about his neck
and held them together in a passionate prayer that he might
have aU the happiness her life could give him. He was the
most fortunate of men. He has since said that some power
higher than his own discernment shaped his life with that
woman's. He believes in inspiration, in the sense that a per-
son may be inspired to select a course of conduct, such as he
did, and that these strong influences ought to be given scope
in every case. He says to-day, after many years of happiness :
" I do not see any advantage in marrying young girls or young
women. I find that wives outlive their husbands in a majority
of cases by ten or twenty years. I knew, from a list I had of
the widows and widowers, that the former were by far the
more numerous. The insurance tables show that the woman
GETTING TOGETHER 159
stands a better chance than the man of great longevity. This
being the case, a woman should be about fifteen years older
than her husband. At least, that was my view. In my class
that left the University when I did, a large percentage of the
marriages that have occurred have been failures. Quite a
number are divorced, and some have separated by agreement,
others by quarrels. I shall never be sorry that I made the
choice I did. It proves that there is a bond stronger than
love."
In this chapter we have presented many views of the
matter of love-making and marriage, of selection and rejection.
In all these views, differing as they do, there is a steady trend
of the law that marriage should be founded on something
stronger than love. The woman who has never faced the
fearful reality of a wrong selection, or who has not yet
graduated from the school of sentiment out into the hard world
of experience, will challenge this law ; but those who know will
agree with it, and those who do not know are not in a position
to give an opinion.
If you can tell what that feeling is that will prompt a man
of sixty to cling to his wife of sixty, then you will understand
the meaning of a stronger bond than love ; for in his day and
in her day they spent the forces that burned brightly when
the heart was young. They have been together for forty years ;
one of the few examples of the binding force that held the
marriage ties strongly when wrecks were strewn along life's
beach as they went on their journey. There is none of the boy's
love in the hearts, or the girl's infatuation that seemed so
lurid when it first broke out. All that has passed. They
never knew such feelings themselves. But they are fast and
secure, heart to heart and mind to mind, and will so remain
until the snows turn to kiss the western sunlight in the winter
of their life, and melt in the warmth of heaven's opening
gates.
If you can tell why the eunuch took to himself a wife who
was, like himself, barren and defective in love, but who proved
better than a lover, for he was loyal in every pulsating throb
of his heart, a condition that is impossible in ordinary love
matches, you can understand what is meant by a bond
that is stronger than infatuation. What civilization needs
IQO SEX MAGNETISM
is the enduring marriage, not the flash in the pan, the
explosion and the putting together of the pieces m new
combinations. ... .
Whatever will make wedlock permanent during lite is the
best for the parties themselves, for their children and for
humanity.
HEART INTERESTS
ONE more step is now to be taken in the onward march
of this work. Reviews are always beneficial, and for this
reason it is advisable to re-read all the foregoing chapters. It
will be seen that there is a logical growth of importance and
strength in the plan of instruction. In the beginning of the
course we discussed the uses of Sex Magnetism. This laid a
general map before the student. Then came the basic laws,
by which the practical character of life was seen. The third
chapter made clear the common faults that stand in the way
of a satisfactory relationship, and that detract from the
pleasure of marriage.
In the next step the attractive force was taught as the
final exaltation of the personality of each sex.
Thus far the training related to the work of fitting one's
own self for the other sex. In the fifth chapter the first step
was taken that reached out toward the other sex ; and in the
sixth chapter the reaching out proceeded far enough to select
the mate.
This study and training must be kept before the mind
under its title of Sex Magnetism. It is intended solely for
the man and the woman who are willing to believe that the
union of the two sexes, either in marriage or out of marriage, is
the greatest institution of life on earth.
The union in marriage is designed for specific purposes.
The union out of marriage is designed for social and bene-
ficial purposes ; and it must be so conducted that the two
parties to it are not left to themselves, but are a portion of
some larger body of people. No opportunity for scandal must
be given in any instance.
If the student of these lessons is not of the opinion that
the union of the two sexes is the most important affiliation on
earth, there will be nothing gained by pursuing the course
further. Nor can we take the space to prove the truth of the
II 161
162 SEX MAGNETISM
assumption, except to record at this time the few leading facts
in this connection :
1. Every person is the product of two persons—a mother
and a father.
2. The mother love is the strongest bond of affection in the
world, and is wholly different from marital love.
3. The father love is next in strength.
4. The purpose of these parental loves is to bring up the
child, not only in safety, but under such influences as will
increase the higher instincts of the next generation, so that
it may take its place in the line of progress which is the chief
end of human production.
5. In home life alone can parental love manifest itself, and
give to the child the nurture and the good influences that will
better its nature.
6. As parental loves are the strongest on earth, and as home
life is essential to the welfare of the child and of the race,
there must of necessity be harmony in the home, and this can
exist only when the parents are united together with heart
interests.
7. The man or woman who, imbued with other ambitions,
thinks that sex union is not the most important affiliation in
the world must remember that, prior to maturity, the home
stood sponsor for the welfare of the child ;
and, after the years
have been emptied of their ambitions, the home is the one
place to which the tired mind and the weary heart must
turn.
8. Home life, therefore, must bring up the rising generation,
and must throw its protection around the passing generation.
Of these facts there can be no doubt.
9. There can be no home life with one sex in the house.
Try ever so hard to imagine it, and there will be a void some-
where that cannot be filled. A man may live alone, but he will
be a failure to himself and to those around him. A woman
may live alone, and she, too, will be sadly deficient in those
interests that are essential to happiness. If it is possible for
a woman, or for women to conduct a home, it cannot be so
arranged that a man can do the same. He needs a woman,
whether she needs him or not. While, from the administrative
point of view, women are able to take care of themselves and
HEART INTERESTS 163
of a home without the companionship of man, he cannot be
left out in the cold ;
and, until all men are extinct, it will be out
of the question to leave home life solely to women.
10. A true man is always turning his mind and his thoughts
to some woman. A true woman is always turning her life to
some man. It matters not how young or how old they may
be, there is this swinging of the mind and of the yearnings to
some one of the other sex. Let this demand of nature be
killed, and no man would seek to climb the ladder of success,
nor would woman care for life. What she may lack now she
once had in fact or in hope, and what she has now that is sacred
to her inner life is centred in some man of the past or present.
It is only when she dies in earthly spirit that her thoughts turn
wholly heavenward.
The white-haired widow sits at her window and watches the
walk up which he came many years ago. It has been nearly a
quarter of a century since he was borne out at the front door,
never to return ; but his steps on the walk and his touch on the
knob of the door are eagerly awaited in her dreams of the
days gone by.
The flower that he gave her lies dead with dusty petals in
the leaves of the old Bible, but she slowly turns those leaves
until the broken blossom is revealed to her gaze, and she reads
the words of comfort and of promise on the open pages. In
the twilight she sees his form passing across the hall, and
hears him call to her in tones of affection that fill her heart
with rejoicing. Thus are the memories ever alive.
Regrets are many, but they are only shadows of love.
The man who did not appreciate the woman until she was
gone, and who has been true to her ever since, cannot escape
the feeling of her presence as of old. There are mementos
that he prizes now, and would not part with for all the gold
there is. There were paths in which they walked and talked,
made plans and built greater castles than ever they could
realize. The ring he gave her is always before his eyes at
evening, and the book out of which she read to him gives up
its thoughts as freely now as then, but the voice is feeble, and
he can scarcely hear its tones.
These are films of the affiliations that were sweet while they
lasted, and that would fill life with bliss could they be renewed.
164 SEX MAGNETISM
Such is the nature that dwells within the human heart.
Born in the home, of parents that loved the home, reared in the
home, gone out from its walls for life's sojourn and battle, and
returning at last to its comforts when the fight dwindles down
to the vale of peace, the heart cries for the solace that only
woman can give to man, and man can draw out of woman's
companionship
The highest authority, the Creator of the race, declared that
it was not good for man to be alone, and that declaration has
been true ever since it was given utterance.
The greatest blessing in life is happiness, and there can be
no happiness until there are two sexes to enjoy it together.
No person can ride over the laws of nature. Defiance and
conceit prevail for a while, but only a brief while, and in
shabbiness and littleness. The severe man and the carouser
pretend to find satisfaction and pleasure apart from a
true appreciation of the opposite sex, but such experience
is shortlived. It narrows the heart and dries up the
conscience.
True happiness must be abiding.
In the sixth chapter there is the coming together of the
two sexes, designed to bring happiness in the place of the
failures that are now so common as to threaten the breaking up
of the home and the debauchery of civilization. Read that
sixth chapter several times, and master all the teachings that
precede it in this book ; then seek some affiliation with one of
the other sex, and establish heart interests at once.
Four classes of people are now invited to set up new lives,
based on the laws of Sex Magnetism, as they are already laid
down, and are to be further described in this work :
First Class—Those who are married.
Second Class—Those who are engaged to be married.
Third Class—Those who are neither married, nor are
engaged, but who are marriageable.
Fourth Class—Those who are neither married, nor engaged,
and are not marriageable.
All these should have heart interests of a kind to suit their
relationships, but founded on the same laws of Sex Magnetism.
These interests are of two kinds :
1. A mutual interest in common.
HEART INTERESTS 165
2. A mutual sympathy.
What is meant by " mutual " is that two persons should
agree together in response to each other ; and what is meant
by the term " in common " is that the same thing should be
the subject of the interest of both persons.
The word sympathy means something quite apart from its
common interpretation as an expression of sorrow, or a sharing
of feeling in the misfortune of another. In this work sympathy
is union. The definition given in the dictionary, taken from
the two words out of which this word is framed, is " conformity
of temperament by which two persons are agreeable to each
other."
As illustrations of sympathy showing " a conformity of
temperament," the following instances may be cited :
1. When one person is interested in the cultivation of
flowers of a special kind, another person who discusses such
flowers to an extent that evinces a real interest, and who
exchanges information and bits of experience on the same
subject, not only once, but often, would display an interest.
The thing that is " common " is the special variety of flowers,
and the fact that both take an " interest " in it shows a mutual
liking, or else an assumed liking, for the same thing. If the
assumption is made solely to win the attention and friendship
of the other person, and is not genuine, it will be dropped after
an engagement or marriage, and the reaction will be worse than
a refusal at the start to take an interest in it.
As sympathy is an advanced step in the growth of mutual
interest, and must have the same basis to begin with, it will
take form when it proves itself genuine and abiding. Thus
the interest in the special kind of flowers, and their cultivation,
would turn to sympathy when the one person sought to assist
the other person in the cultivation, and entered into the pleasure
of it as both a science and an art. If the woman enjoys such
diversion, and her husband actually enjoys it also, they will
possess sympathy along this line. That is, there will be " a
conformity of temperament that makes them both agreeable to
each other." This is one kind of illustration, taking as a
groundwork a worthy diversion.
2. Where the subject is not worthy of the community of
temperament, as where a woman loves dogs as she would love
166 SEX MAGNETISM
children, the husband would be untrue to himself to join in
such an interest. If he loves horses, and she has a similar
interest or affection, the subject, while worthy, is not large
enough to build a temperament upon. The cultivation of
flowers is so close to the first profession of man, and is so near to
the heart of nature that the married couple who can enjoy it
together would find a community of temperament if there were
no commercialism in the practice. When these beautiful
children of the heart of God are raised to be sold, those who
raise them do not see beyond the money.
3. A wife who loves her children, and whose life is centred
upon their welfare, can achieve no grander victory in the
world than to arouse in her husband a similar love. Such
love must be made manifest in works, not words. The father
must devote himself to them. He must be with them, teach
them, lead them, play with them, study their own inclination,
and, above all, take an active and constant interest in their
play and their plans. He should listen to them, and let them
explain what is in their little minds. Most fathers neglect
this duty. The mother love should reach out to the father
love, and both should unite in the child, and there find a union
of temperament.
4. This question of temperament is a hard one to meet face
to face, for nature implants it, and few persons can cultivate
it unless they are willing to change their dispositions. Many
men, however, have been transformed when a child has blessed
their marriage. One word from a friend to a newly-made
father set alive the spark that might never have burst into
flame :
" Now that you have a child, take an interest in it.
Love it you will ; but show that love by constant interest in
it." He could not forget that word " interest." Prior to the
event he had been spending his evenings at the clubs and
down town ; but that word interest rang in his ears, and he
gave up his evenings out, and joined his wife in her world of
love for the child. As the latter grew up there was certainly a
community of temperament, for both husband and wife made
it the centre of a mutual love. When the temperament is
natural there are scores, if not hundreds, of little and great
things that can be done that will develop as the new history is
enacted.
HEART INTERESTS 167
5. The liking of home life is a matter that should command
the most intense interest of two persons.
6. The love of the home itself as an abode is, or should be,
the strongest tie on earth ;
rising in importance above the love
of children, for the latter is included in the former. When a
husband loves his home, and appreciates all a wife does to
make it pleasant, he has a mutual interest in common with her ;
but when he seeks to take part in its betterment, when he
thinks of it in the morning in his first hours, when he gives
thought to it as he goes to his day's duties, when, in the intervals
of the day, his mind reverts to the abode and the wife there,
when, on his return, before he catches a glimpse of its walls,
he wonders in what way he can add to the beauty and comfort
of its conditions, and when he practises the things he thinks
about the home, aiding his wife in her actual work of im-
proving it, then he has a temperament in conformity with hers.
As he would not be married if he were not desirous of a true
mode of living, it would be a natural, and not an assumed,
temperament. All it needs for its development is that he make
up his mind to cultivate that temperament. If no other kind
is given growth, the love of home should by all means be
encouraged.
7. While the cultivation of a love of flowers, a love of
children, a liking for home life, and a love for the home itself,
are the four most important bases of temperament that are
easily unfolded in every true man and woman, there are many
other matters of lesser interest about which the mind and heart
may centre. Music is the theme in some homes, the singing
or playing done by the wife being a source of pleasure to the
husband, even if he is not able to participate in them ; and
if he does not at first care for them, he can easily learn to do
so, and should be willing to make an effort on the principle that
mutual interest and a community of temperament bring two
lives close together. There is also the love of any art, or of
literature, or of study and improvement, as shown in the fourth
and fifth chapters, or the building up of a library in the home,
book by book, or other matter in which both parties are
expected to join mind and hearts. All these, or any of them,
serve to effect the end desired.
But there should not be attempts made at feminine things
J-Oo SEX MAGNETISM
by the male, or at male subjects by the female. It would not
be sensible for a husband to develop sympathy with his wife
in the direction of dressmaking, although he should be pleased
to respond to any desire she has of showing him how well she
sews and makes dresses. On the other hand, it would not be
sensible for the wife to develop a sympathy for her husband's
dental practice, or law practice, or other merely masculine
vocation, although it is almost impossible for a wife to separate
her interest from the work which her husband is engaged in,
especially if he is a writer, a clergyman, a doctor or is in
business, for her sympathy generally spurs him on to his best
achievements. A minister who has a wife that did not enter
largely into his church work, or help him in his aspirations,
would be remiss. So would a wife who opposed the vocation
of a husband.
The difference between mutual interest and sympathy is
important.
Mutual interest is the operation of the mind acting with
another person in relation to a matter in which both find
pleasure and attraction.
Sympathy is a conformity of temperament by which two
persons are agreeable to each other, and proceeds from the
heart. It may begin in the mind in the form of a mutual
interest, and advance to the heart in the form of sympathy.
The minds and the hearts of husband and wife should unite.
It is not enough that they agree in mind. They should
agree in heart. If they cannot agree in mind, the time to
ascertain the fact is prior to their engagement, not after they
are married. If they do agree in mind and not in heart, they
should have found it out at the same time. But if they agree
in mind and not in heart, they will be cold to each other,
and their coming and going will be formal and selfish. The
home will lack warmth and cordiality. If they agree in heart,
they will very likely have a mental harmony ; but the double
agreement is necessary to a highly magnetic marriage, as we
shall see later on.
As marriage, if not altogether false, is sure to carry with
it the possibility of cultivating a mutual interest and sympathy
in the love of children, the liking of home life, and the love
of the home itself, as well as several other broad subjects
HEART INTERESTS 169
that arouse the heart as well as the mind, there is no reason
why husbands and wives who to-day are cold to each other
and selfish should not turn about and come into the conformity
of temperament that will make them agreeable to each other,
especially under the developing power of Sex Magnetism.
This conformity of temperament has a peculiar action.
Will you imagine a body from which radiates a light broad
enough to reach as far from that body as its own diameter.
Then imagine another body having the same radiating light.
Now, suppose this light is called sympathy ;
that one body is
the husband, and the other body is the wife ;
they will radiate
a power that will reach from each far enough to include each
other. Both will be in the radiation. The wife will be in
the light that emanates from her husband, and the husband
will be in the light that radiates from the wife. This is sym-
pathy. It is a conformity of interest that makes both agreeable
to each other.
All magnetic persons radiate a power that is not light of a
visible nature, but is magnetism of a clearly-felt character. If
you have taken the foundation course in this study, as set
forth in the outlines of the magnetic club, you will have
developed this radiating power.
But it will not have influence until you associate it with
something that is tangible and practicable. Electricity is a
magnetic force of a mechanical kind, yet it is useless until
it is made to do valuable work. The test of any power is its
ability to aid humanity.
The idea of radiation has been expressed by writers and
speakers for hundreds of years, if not thousands. It has
always been an old saying that a good woman radiates gentle-
ness and cheer all about her ; that a man who is honest radiates
confidence among those whom he meets, and similar allusions
to the radiating power of a person of influence.
In the study and practice of personal magnetism a force is
not only developed, but is actually attached to the personality
of the individual that corresponds, in way of illustration, to
the actual radiation of light from a luminous body, or heat
from one that is warm. A candle sends forth light, and uses
the ether within the atmosphere for its medium of passage. A
hot object radiates forth heat and employs the air itself. A
A ' u SEX MAGNETISM
magnetic body radiates an electric energy within a certain
range, intense when nearby, and attenuated beyond its line
of intensity. A magnet actually radiates magnetism that
attracts, and the object that is attracted has only to come
within the scope of its power to be caught and held.
This principle is everywhere manifested.
No attempt is to be made here to review the lessons of the
foundation book, as they are too extensive for even a refer-
ence. The instruction of the next few pages is along new
lines entirely.
But the presence of two mediums of passage for any force
is taught not only in the foundation book, but in all works
of science that bear upon the universe and its parts.
This planet is enveloped in an almost invisible air, estimated
from ten to two hundred miles or more in depth or height.
Owing to the attraction of the earth itself, which is a form
of magnetism, the air is most dense within the distance of
five or ten miles from the surface, being actually heaviest at
the ground or sea level, and gradually growing thinner as it
rises.
In this way the earth radiates its atmosphere ; for the
chemical parts of the air are also parts of the chemical com-
position of the earth itself, and are constantly changing places.
The air comes into the solids of the planet, and the latter
pass into the air. Here we have a common example of radiation
of a mechanical character.
The sun is probably composed of a fire-mass, out of which
radiate both light and heat, as well as animal vitality and
electricity, magnetism and attraction. All that exists within
the body of man, or in the air or ground, must have its source,
if not origin, in the central orb, which is called the sun. But
its power of radiation is not infinite. If it were, there would
be but one sun in the sky. No person who has studied this
orb believes that there is any influence going out from the
sun beyond the solar system. It would seem wholly impossible.
The solar system is comparatively a small space in the sky.
To us mortals it is very large, and its diameter of more than
four thousand million miles is inconceivably large. Yet, if
we were standing on the nearest star beyond our system we
would not discern any planet here, and could behold our sun
HEART INTERESTS 171
alone, with a background of thousands of other stars,
all seemingly jumbled together. As the largest telescope
that human genius can invent is unable to detect any
planets in other solar systems, so no beholder there can see
ours here.
Each system seems separate.
Hence it is true that our sun, mighty as it is in its own
realm, has a limit to its powers. It radiates light, heat, animal
life, plant life, magnetism, electricity and attraction ;
and
these forces go out to their limit of distance, growing weaker
and weaker until they cease, and the solar system is ended,
for its limits are reached. Too near the sun the forces would
be most intense. Too far away they would be most weak.
Our earth radiates its atmosphere, as has been stated.
But it takes up the light of the sun, and radiates that also.
It is very probable that light does not exist in either, but
depends upon the radiating power of a tangible object to make
it manifest. As it is merely an activity against the nerves
of the brain, and as the brain is built of the earth and the sun
forces, the power to know light is only a response to some form
of radiation.
If the human body did not radiate light it could not be
seen.
If it did not radiate heat or warmth, it could not be felt.
When you place your hand upon an object, you recognize
its shape and its characteristics, because there is radiation
of some kind emanating from it.
Sound is radiation.
It employs the air as its medium of passage. If you are
at a distance from a cannon when it is discharged you can
hear it, but not so plainly as when you are nearer. If you
are many miles away, the sound is fainter. If a person speaks
to you, the clearness of the voice is greater with his nearness
to you ; and at a certain distance it is wholly lost to your
ear, because there is a limit to the radiation of sound.
Electrical bodies act upon the same principle, having two
methods of discharge, one the direct and the other leakage.
The former operates at close range.
The stove sends out its warmth by the same kind of radia-
tion as sound is projected, but has a much closer range. A
172 SEX MAGNETISM
stove may be too hot six inches away for the hand to be
held near it, but it is only moderately hot two feet away,
while at five yards or more its heat is felt only in the moving
currents of the air in the room. It is radiation with the usual
limit.
All natural powers follow the same law.
The magnet will act only when some object comes within
the range of its greatest intensity. The natural magnet, or
lodestone, loses its power in time, and steel and iron magnets
are made artificially because they alone are permanent. In
the earth, in the far North, is the magnetic mass that attracts
the needle of the compass to aid the mariner thousands of
miles away, showing a long range of natural magnetism. Just
in what way that mysterious force turns the point of the needle
and compels it to direct the ship across wide seas, is one of
the great marvels of life. Through solids and through liquids,
through air and through storms, that silent influence is pulling
the needle around to its direction, as though a hand had hold
of it. It is not attraction, because it must overcome that
agency, even in infinitesimal degree.
The attraction of gravity is just as hard to understand.
Some writers think it is identical with electrical attraction,
but the magnetism exerted on the needle of the compass is
wholly different from the attraction of gravity. The earth
radiates attraction and has influence on the other planets and
on the moon, the revolutions of the latter having been stopped
by the earth, so that but one face or side of the moon is
always towards the earth, no matter how persistently it keeps
in its orbit.
In another kind of radiation a human being sheds intelli-
gence from the brain. He also sends forth magnetism from
the entire nervous systems of the body. These radiations have
three degrees :
1. The range of close intensity.
2. The general range of influence.
3. The negative, or minimum range.
The last named has no power beyond the body itself,
and is classed as non-magnetic, or dead, in influence.
The second degree is general and thin, and the power is
not extensive or strong, unless aided by some faculty. It is,
HEART INTERESTS 173
however, a power, and exerts an influence that in time becomes
effective, even against determined opposition.
The first degree, or the range of close intensity, is capable
of reaching a high energy where the conditions and the per-
sonality conform to such end. In the foundation course of
personal magnetism, which is the book devoted to the cultiva-
tion of that power, there are many exercises and other means
of developing this radiating energy ; all under the general
name of personal magnetism. The name is correct, for that
is the nature of the power referred to.
It is strictly personal magnetism.
As the student begins to make progress in that course,
which is noticeable from the first real work in it, the body at
the same time undergoes a change. Magnetism begins to
radiate from it. The man or woman who is magnetic, whether
naturally or by development, will make this power felt on
entering a room. There is something in the presence, in the
walk, in the attitude, in the eye and in the voice that impresses
this fact on every person within a certain distance of the in-
dividual. There are two kinds of radial magnetism :
1. That which is unaided by any faculty.
2. That which is aided by some faculty.
There are two sources of radial magnetism :
1. That which is called natural.
2. That which is developed.
The natural power is said to have resulted from inheritance,
which is never true. Then it is said to be born in the person,
which likewise is never true. Then it is described as coming
natural to a man or woman. All this means that a person
becomes magnetic, and does not know how ; but the expert
knows very well how it came about. Certain habits of the
mind, body and emotional system tend to the natural saving
of the power. All persons are magnetic, but nearly all of
them lose the energy by leakage and wrong methods of caring
for the body, the mind and the emotions. Those who, by acci-
dent, take proper care of themselves, largely through instinctive
common sense, are rapid developers of magnetism.
The natural or accidental possession of this power is never
as effective as the cultivated form of it. The lodestone is
found in a magnetic condition, but the useful and permanent
174 SEX MAGNETISM
magnets are made by the art of man. The natural lodestone
cannot do the work, bring the results or secure the confidence
in its stability that the man-made magnet will produce. It
has also been proved that men and women who did not
know they were magnetic, or, if knowing it, did not understand
its uses, have suddenly lost all control of the very people
over whom they have fitfully at times exercised power. In
these arts nothing can be left to accident or chance or nature.
No florist will leave his garden to nature, for it would be
ruined by weeds.
As the methods of developing magnetism in men and
women are founded on the processes and laws of nature,
just as the flower garden is made ; and as they are not left
to the care of nature any more than the flower garden is
left, the power is wholly natural, while being controlled and
directed by the art of man. This is the rule in everything.
Electricity originates in nature ; but left to nature it runs
wild, and does more harm than good. When cultivated by
man, and its uses are controlled by him, then for the first
time is it reliable and of high value.
The same is true of personal magnetism.
It is the same force as that which is said to be a born gift,
but it is of no permanent value unless it is developed and
employed by the art of man.
But there are two kinds of radial magnetism—one is
unaided by any faculty, and the other is aided by some faculty.
A faculty is any operation of the mind, the body or the
emotions that a human being may direct, control or regard
as swayed by voluntary purpose. Whatever else occurs of
itself is a function. The functions do not aid radial mag-
netism, but the faculties all may be so controlled that they
will aid it to a wonderful extent.
Thinking is a faculty.
The formation of a purpose is a faculty.
The development of a habit is a faculty.
The interest that the mind takes in anything or any per-
son is a faculty.
Sympathy, being one of the emotions, is a faculty.
Temperament is a faculty, for it is controllable, changeable,
and can be decreased or increased.
HEART INTERESTS 175
What the hands do, what the body or any of its parts may
do, what the mind does, what the thoughts are, what the habits
are, what a person is, as estimated by his conduct and daily
life, are the results of voluntary purpose or voluntary neglect,
and aid or interfere with the radial magnetism that exists like
an atmosphere about the individual.
All radial magnetism is a use of personal magnetism, such
as is developed in the book of the foundation course, but is
employed in a way that is suited to the results desired. The
particular way in which it will be employed is determined by
the faculties that aid it and their uses.
In the first place, any man or woman who has cultivated
personal magnetism in the foundation course possesses radial
magnetism, but is not yet an active agent. By tests that
leave no doubt of its extent there is a radial atmosphere of
magnetism that surrounds the individual like an enveloping
ether. This ether begins to form and to extend itself just
as soon as the true work of the foundation course is under-
taken. As that course always precedes this, or, at least,
accompanies this, and as this present work is not announced
to any person who is not familiar with the foundation course,
it is always presumed that the student of these pages is
the owner of the first course. Constant reference to the
latter is necessary, in order to make the training clearly
understood.
The radial inactive force is that form of radial mag-
netism where no aid comes to it from any faculty. This is as
nearly as it can be designated, the developing energy result-
ing from the practice of the foundation course. This energy
can be felt, and is readily recognized by any person who
possesses it, or by any expert who accosts such a person,
and any instrument that measures the nervous vitality of a
live body will determine the extent of the radial power when
in an inactive state.
A man or woman who is magnetic as the result of practice,
or in any other way, has a greater radial atmosphere when
the physical or the mental vitality is high, and a more limited
atmosphere when some excess or some cause of exhaustion
has interfered with it. Thus the loss of sleep, or the suffering
of pain, or indigestion, or hard, mental work, or other harmful
176 SEX MAGNETISM
agency, will cause quite a change in the extent of this radial
magnetism.
In married life two sources of help and of harm are constantly
fighting each other. The husband or the wife who lacks radial
magnetism will never be attracted to the other. It has been
said that all human beings are magnetic. This is true. Any
scientist knows that all substances are magnetic ;
any lump
of earth has some, any dull clay has some, and nothing exists
that is empty of this quality ; but there are certain substances
that are highly endowed with magnetism, and these are so
classed because of the difference in their condition over their
lesser neighbours in the material world.
It is true also that a girl who has entered upon her maiden
stage, and a boy who has entered upon his young manhood,
is much more magnetic than at any previous period of his life.
The sexual growth develops the radial energy, and this attracts
and holds two persons together for a while ; and may become
so strong and so erratic that it will set aside the judgment.
Even insanity has followed its wild career.
Experiments prove that radial energy widens or narrows
with each use or misuse of the faculties, assuming that it
exists at all. Of course, there are many persons with so small
a radial atmosphere that they are classed as unmagnetic.
Nature imparts this power to the two sexes at times and under
conditions peculiar to them, so that they may become interested
in each other. But that form is narrow and limited, and quickly
vanishes on the first exhaustion of the nervous powers.
When the normal radial magnetism is added to by the
cultivation of personal magnetism it becomes enlarged, and is
given a tendency to permanency. At least, it is very difficult
to drive it wholly away, while ordinary sexual radial magnetism,
or the usual drawing of one sex to another, is quickly wasted
or lost.
If personal magnetism is added to normal radial magnetism,
and to these two there be added the unfolded influence of Sex
Magnetism as taught in this book, there will be a combination
that will always endure, and that nothing can break down.
It is to such end that this course is tending.
As these powers are continually dependent on the faculties,
and as the latter are always fluctuating, there is a new form of
HEART INTERESTS 177
value being created all the time. The following are some of
the facts that have been collected and tested under so many
conditions that there cannot remain any doubt of their
accuracy :
L A man who has no magnetism and no polish in his
manners will not have any genuine attractive force.
2. A man who has polish in manner or politeness, but no
magnetism, will please in a surface way, but will not have any
wearing qualities. He would be a bore after a short time.
Many of the most tiresome men are those who are highly
polished, and who know every rule of gallantry. Women like
them for the new sensations they may produce in contrast
with their husbands and brothers ; but there comes very soon
the fact that such men are bores.
3. A man who has most highly polished manners and
magnetism will not gain in his control over others, for there is a
limit to usefulness in method, and people measure magnetism
by its practical value.
4. A man who has magnetism, but no polish of manner
or politeness, being merely neutral, might win a common mind
to his cause ; but he would be crude among the better classes
where refinement is at par.
5. A man who has magnetism and is positively disagreeable
in his manners, will be unable to use his magnetism. The thing
to be drawn will be repelled. Thus it is seen that magnetism
is the agency of habits and of substantial qualities, and not
their master, as far as the possessor is concerned.
6. A woman who has no magnetism and possesses no
refinement will not have any genuine powers of attraction.
7. A woman who has refinement and no magnetism will
please in a surface way. After a brief acquaintance with her,
the man who seeks to pay her attention will wonder why he
ever called, and how he can most easily withdraw without
giving her offence. Coldness, accompanied by numbness, in a
woman is stupid enough, but when it is polished off like shining
marble it glares at you.
8. A woman who is magnetic, but lacks refinement, being
neither polished nor disagreeable, but just neutral, may win a
common fellow, but will not reach with her influence into the
ranks of the better classes.
I 2
178 SEX MAGNETISM
9. A woman who is unrefined, but magnetic, would repel
others, for nothing can be attracted by a driving force. You
cannot push a man off the steps and prevail on him to continue
his course until he returns. He may retaliate, but he will be
an unpleasant visitor.
10. It is not generally possible for a trained person who
has developed magnetism to retain disagreeable qualities.
11. A man who takes an interest in a woman must of
necessity take an interest in something that she herself believes
in. He cannot be merely interested in her, for that is impossible.
Friendship does not cling to the body as an inert mass, but to
something that the body is engaged in, or the mind enjoys,
or the emotions are influenced by. You cannot imagine a
man in love with a woman who is saying nothing and doing
nothing. He and she both may be involved in eager conversa-
tion. He is not telling her that she is beautiful and all that,
for he passed that stage some weeks before. He and she may
be building castles in the air, and they will do their best
architecture then. They will have themes that interest both
of them. She would not, in the nature of things, intrude a
subject that he cared nothing for, and he would be equally
diplomatic. If he has magnetism and takes a genuine interest
in what she says and does, then there is the exercise of the
faculty of interest aiding the magnetism. It finishes it with a
medium for its extension. The result is that his radiant energy
reaches farther away, and has greater intensity.
12. It is not necessary for two persons to possess personal
magnetism, for the power of one will easily include the other.
The yielding party is as content, and the controlling party finds
the mutual pleasure always present and this is enough. But
the magnetism of one person is imparted in large degree
for the time being to the other person, if the latter is controlled.
Lack of control would end the matter at once.
13. The subject of the mutual interest must appeal to the
magnetic party, and emanate from the other ;
or else it must
emanate from the magnetic party, and be in harmony with the
wishes and views of the other. If a man seeks to hold a woman's
will by his own magnetism, he should first find out what great
subject most interests her permanently, not for the time being ;
and he then should ascertain in his own mind if he can take a
HEART INTERESTS 179
positive interest in that subject. If not, he does her a wrong, as
well as himself, to continue the relationship. But if he can
become interested in it, then he will retain great control over
her by uniting his magnetism with the interest that is mutual.
This is a common and practical law of life.
14. If he wishes to introduce to her mind for acceptance
some permanent subject in which he wishes her to take an
interest, then he should first seek to arouse that interest without
using the power of personal magnetism. If she is enthusiastic
in her reception of it, then he can secure lasting control over
her life by adding to the subject of mutual interest his own
personal magnetism. This, too, is a common law of human
nature.
15. There comes to all persons who are married a crisis
in which the ways will part if there is not a community of
interest. Their minds and habits have been drifting apart.
It may be easy or it may be difficult for them to leave each
other. Many cases are not as serious as that. The remedy is
in the cultivation of personal magnetism by one or the other of
them. Whichever one chooses to do this, should then make the
effort to find some subject that both may become interested in,
or some mode of living, or some line of conduct, or other matter
that is worth great interest ; and then it should be combined
with the magnetic power, founded on the first six chapters of
this course. Where the wife, for instance, will not evince an
interest in anything, and knows of nothing that can arouse her
enthusiasm, while the husband is the party who is cultivating
his own magnetism, she may be made, by his aid, to see some-
thing that will prove of importance to her. It should be a
theme that pertains to both of them, and that can be amalga-
mated in their home existence.
Eighteen years ago a man wrote as follows for advice :
" I have been married eleven years. My wife and I have got
along very well together, but there has never been any real
love since the first few months of wedlock. She finds the
monotony stupid and says there is nothing in it. What can be
done ? I have studied and practised many of the advisory
systems for home happiness, but have not benefited myself or
my home in any way."
Under advice, after further information, he was told to
180 SEX MAGNETISM
try in many ways to ascertain what she would become
interested in, while he quietly, and without her knowledge,
took up the cultivation of personal magnetism. A year later
he wrote :
" I have finished the course in personal magnetism, and have
been making progress in the private sheets furnished under the
title of Sex Magnetism. I see what is to be done, and have been
trying to find out what great subject will interest both of us
permanently."
After the lapse of three months he again wrote :
" You ask what progress is being made. I tried birds, pets,
animals and flowers as possible subjects. These did not make
any impression, although she said she wished she had a
conservatory attached to the house, but would not let me spend
the money for it. The pets were not of sufficient importance to
found a permanent and great interest upon. Unfortunately,
we have had no children. She took some interest in charitable
work, but that is wholly outside of our home, and has no uniting
power with us. We were not church-going people, but have
since been attending regularly, and find some mutual interest
in this new life, although we are not yet members. But this is
not domestic. I one day this spring happened to meet an
agent selling rose vines, and I got three climbers. She was not
consulted, and I did not know how she would take it, but she
seemed to like it. Then I had the grounds graded and the
rough places brought down to the level of a floor, and grass
seed sown, and privet hedge placed around the land, with paths
of cement. At this writing the interest she is taking is very
great."
A year later he wrote :
" I raised a fine lawn, and the privet hedge is growing fast.
The roses this spring show buds, and she is talking of the time
when they will blossom. I had two evergreen trees, and some
evergreen shrubs set out by the paths, and they have changed
the looks of the place very much. The house has been given a
new coat of paint, a small porch and piazza have been built to
receive the climbing vines, and we are soon to have the smartest
house in the road. Last week a real estate agent offered us a
price for the home that is twice what it is worth, because he has
a client who is very much in love with the surroundings. For
HEART INTERESTS 181
that money we can buy a new piece of land and build just the
kind of house we want, and add the conservatory.
5 '
Three years went by and he again wrote :
" The new house has been built, the conservatory added, and
the grounds have been put in lawns and hedges, with trees,
paths and other attractions too numerous to be stated in one
letter. As luck would have it, we laid aside some of the purchase
price, and yet have a much better place. The location is
superb. But there is a man who wants to buy it, and we think
we may sell, as there is a decided profit in the exchange.
Besides, we see things that could be improved."
They did sell again at a large profit, and have built a house
that they considered perfect in its new ideas and innovations.
This third home they have had for many years now, and will
not sell it ; but the man has found his experience a way by
which he became a builder of homes in a growing locality, and
this is his business now, with the laying out of grounds as a
specialty of attraction. Ten years ago he set out hundreds of
small evergreen trees and shrubs and privet-hedge plants, and
has been drifting into the nursery business as an adjunct to
his builder's profession. His wife is interested every minute of
the time.
At this writing there is no healthier and more permanently
established marital relationship than that which now exists
between them.
They are pleasant companions. They meet each other with
a hearty good will, and a cordiality that seems to fit lovers
more than old timers. Their home, within and without, is the
model of attractiveness and comfort. They have the air of
people who are well-to-do beyond the five thousand pounds
they have laid aside.
In our books in various ways there is taught the doctrine
that a law of special design is at work in every progressive
human fife ; and that life is progressive that seeks to carry on,
even in small degree, the progress of nature towards a higher
status of the race.
Read now, if you will, the first chapter of this book. Make
yourself familiar with the teachings that there might have
been one sex if there were not other ends in view than the
mere reproduction of the race. By sex influences the generation
182 SEX MAGNETISM
to come may be made better and more refined and intelligent by-
taking advantage of the lessons taught by nature during the first
meetings of the couples who are destined to come together.
True courtship wields the greatest power in civilization.
The spirit of loyalty to home life is everywhere urged on
the race by nature. Where this loyalty is great and abiding,
there special design brings rewards to those who thus show
their value. There are many such cases like the one we have
just quoted at such length. In all of them, without a single
exception, where a married couple have refound their hearts
after a coldness, and have thereafter built up a home influence
of great value to themselves and, relatively speaking, to the
world, there nature has visited them with special design, and
bestowed rewards they never before dreamed of.
Why was it that the husband referred to, when he failed in
many things to arouse an interest in his wife's mind, came upon
the rose-seller ? Why did he buy ? Why did he sow his
lawns, and plant the hedges, and make the paths, and adorn the
grounds with trees and shrubs ? Why, when this was done,
did the place attract a price greater than he had paid for it,
and so lead him on to higher aspirations ? And why did he
drift from a clerkship with only a fair salary to a new business,
in which there was awaiting him a small fortune ?
In such an extensive course as Universal Magnetism, the
climax of the Personal Magnetism Club, there are many
instances of this mysterious power drawing something grand out
of the viewless ether that bathes all the earth with its influence.
The principle is a plain one :
There is for every man and woman who is truly magnetic,
and who conforms to the plan of nature for the improvement
of the world, an inexhaustible fund of rewards, and they come
in the most unexpected manner. Any person, man or woman,
who has passed through the several realms of magnetism
with a faithful adoption of the simple truths that all may
use easily and freely, and has thus climbed to the top of the
upland on the heights as found in Universal Magnetism, will
be rewarded. The reward will not be in doubt, but will be
clear and certain. The instances are without exception. No
person who is earnest will fail, for no one who has been in
earnest has failed. There are reports, of which the following
HEART INTERESTS 183
is one, that tell the story :
" I have found myself passing
from a state of the most commonplace life full of drudgery and
routine toil and duties, up to the highest planes of earthly
existence, and all through the practice of magnetism. I have
done something more than read. I have given fifteen minutes
a day to the practice of it, and it has not interfered with any
other work or duty. When I reached and graduated from the
all-embracing course, Universal Magnetism, then I came in
touch with that fund of rewards, as predicted, that showered
blessings all along my path. I had constant evidence and
proof that there is a boundless deep all around us, out of
which we draw what we will by our magnetic power."
From all the men and women who have pursued their
studies right to the end the same proof has come, and we find
no exception. No notice can be taken in making up percent-
ages of those who merely read the studies. It is the practice
for fifteen minutes a day, unremittingly, that develops and
employs magnetism at its highest.
But, without ascending the uplands of Universal Mag-
netism, many persons have caught glimpses of the same
wonderful power to draw forth rewards from the great fund
around us. From all sides come proofs of the workings of
special design, urged on by Nature herself, in return for
honest efforts made to become a part of her plan of
progress.
These facts are cited to give courage to every person who
seeks to make home life attractive, and in some way to interest
one of the opposite sex to take an interest in the same
purpose. Find in your mind the desire, and in your heart
the hope of such a goal, and then add magnetism. The results
will be as sure as the fact that the sun will rise again.
Radial magnetism must be aided by some operation of the
faculties, and mutual interest in a common subject is such a
process. This is the mind in agreement.
The heart must likewise be brought into a similar
agreement.
This is done by the development of sympathy.
Much has been said in the early pages of this chapter
on the nature of sympathy ; and it has been defined by the
dictionaries as " a conformity of temperament by which two
184 SEX MAGNETISM
persons are agreeable to each other." In fact, as found
working in the lives of people, there are the following char-
acteristics of sympathy :
1. The radial influence that emanates from one person
embraces the personality of the other.
2. The radial influence of the other person embraces the
personality of the former.
3. The radial influences of both persons overlap each other,
and blend two hearts in one being.
The service of magnetism is to bond sympathy.
Without magnetism the radial influences may lapse and
disappear, as is often the case. Two persons who have a mutual
interest in something in common, and a decided sympathy, find
in time their interest on the wane and their sympathy vanished.
Lives that might have grown together until death parted them
have drifted sadly away from each other, and been wrecked
in counter-disappointments. History of this kind is being
made every day.
Thus the necessity of personal magnetism is seen in the most
important phase of life. Persons who will not study magnetism
are not willing to study anything that is beneficial, for it is the
one most practical and useful training on earth to-day. It has
no equal in the good it will bring to every man and woman who
takes advantage of its laws.
A person who will procure a course in magnetism, and
then read it and lay it aside, does not deserve the benefits that
accrue from its doctrines. When only fifteen minutes a day
will be required both to read and to practise its work, no one
has any right to ask to be excused from it. Much of the
training is obtained by absorbing the instructions without
practice ; but they should be actually absorbed, and this is
done by re-reading many times. Any law may be put into
practice by knowing what it is, and this is true of any
teaching.
What is included in the present course is not to be practised
in the sense that the exercises of the developing book are to
be practised ; but the doctrines are to be adopted by changing
the methods of living. This rule is seen in the suggestions of
the third chapter. Any man or woman who, after reading
that chapter, will still carry the same neglects and bad habits,
HEART INTERESTS 185
need not expect any happiness in life ; for there is the turning
of the ways, either to the left and away from what is essential
to attractiveness, or to the right and along the path in which
the attractive force is cultivated.
SECOND TESTS OF TEMPERAMENTAL UNFITNESS
We come now to the application of the next methods of
ascertaining the fitness or unfitness of two persons for each
other in marriage.
At the end of the first chapter in this book, the first tests
are made. They are mathematically accurate, and that is
the perfection of accuracy. When applied they do not tell an
untruth. It is a very easy process to learn how much real
power binds two lives together, even by so simple a test as
that ; or it is the simplest of all evidences for or against a
young man, if he maintains or lessens his improvement under
the influence of his attachment for a young woman ; and the
same law applies to her as well.
The next tests come under the theme of mental interests
and the deeper theme of heart interests.
More careful observation is needed ; for it is necessary to
distinguish between the physical and nervous character on
the one hand, and the real temperament on the other. Much
is inherited, and more is acquired. The dull, slow body has
been quickened under the power of thought ; and the highly
nervous nature has been given stability by the aid of thought
taking the place of habit.
Love, so-called, or that attraction that brings the two
sexes together in the better way, if genuine, is always strong
enough to supplant habits. If it were not, then the only
agency of a better civilization would fall to the ground.
The one giant fault of humanity is that they live in habits
rather than in thought.
It is hard to think, and to most persons genuine thinking is
painful ; for which reason nature sets up the one greatest
power in fife, sex attraction, or love, if you will, and uses this
power to change habits into thought ;
and, then, through
thought, it reaches the heart and establishes heart interests.
This is not only civilization on the upward grade, but it is
186 SEX MAGNETISM
religion itself in the process of being moulded, for it touches
chords in life that are never vibrated by any other power.
Under the spell of this influence a man or woman will come
into poise of mind and heart, will think new habits and will
build new hopes.
Now just at that point where these new habits are being
thought out and adopted, and new hopes are shaping them-
selves, the offer of marriage, if made, should be gently taken
under advice ;
or, better still, the offer itself should be delayed.
Just as long as the two persons can keep each other in doubt
and in anticipation of the coming agreement, just so long will
it be possible to watch the growth of new habits as the result
of new thinking.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS
HERE the course mounts to a higher plane, with a con-
stant view of the ground behind and below over which
we have travelled. From the first step to the present time
there has been a gradual ascent to higher ground ;
and so the
course will progress to the end. Review is evidence both of
good scholarship and of interest in the work. When each
new chapter is reached all the chapters that have preceded
should be carefully gone over in search of truths that are sure
to escape the mind on a first reading.
There are five laws that relate to radial magnetism, which
was fully described in the seventh chapter. These laws will
constitute the instruction of the present stage.
FIRST RADIAL LAW
Sex Magnetism demands the adoption of a sympathetic voice.
It has already been stated that radial magnetism must be
aided by the faculties in order to become effective in the highest
degree. The faculties are those operations of the mind and
body that may be controlled by the will or the habits of the
individual.
The most common and the most useful of all the faculties is
that of speech. The voice is the tool both of the mind and of
the emotions. The mind takes part in magnetic control, and
may become one of the most powerful and successful of all
agencies for success in fife when trained under the plan set
forth in the course known as Mental Magnetism, which is a part
of the series of the Personal Magnetism Club.
The voice is also the tool of the emotions, and these are
trained in the other powerful course known as Advanced
Magnetism, which is another part of the same Club.
When the voice has behind it an unmagnetic mind, it is
187
188 SEX MAGNETISM
most dull and uninteresting. It hardly ever succeeds in hold-
ing the attention of others, as is witnessed in many sermons,
in the work of teachers, and in ordinary conversation. Interest
in a thing arouses some temporary magnetism of the radial
kind which dies at once when the interest lags. An important
fact when realized by a speaker may arouse in him and in others
a certain amount of magnetism which has no life beyond the
few minutes the fact is being told.
So skilled is the ordinary mind in this knowledge that one
person seeks to secure the attention of another by carrying
news or by gossiping. It is the cheapest and lowest of all
grades of radial magnetism. A clerk who wants the goodwill
of his employer may suddenly open fire on his attention with
a piece of news that is either startling or valuable to the man.
A woman tries at times to make herself agreeable to her husband
in the same way. If she lacks magnetism in the conduct of
her home, her children will not be controlled very easily, and
she uses as a substitute for magnetism the promise of some-
thing she is to tell them. They wait for the news with eager-
ness, and if it is not up to the standard of their expectation,
they wiU give less heed from time to time to these promises.
In place of these old-time methods, it is possible to rule
and to win by the aid of magnetism in the employment of the
faculties.
There are to-day too many unmagnetic men in public life,
especially in the pulpit. Power to convince and to win men
and women is needed, but these unmagnetic preachers go on
year in and year out wearying their hearers and wondering
why there is so little genuine religion in the heart of the world.
No greater wrong can be done the cause than the lack of mental
magnetism in so grand a field of work.
The voice is also the tool of the emotions. Of these there
are seventy-six in three classes. They are faculties, just as
the mental operations are faculties. These emotions are known
as the moods and feelings, and as such are made agencies of
power under the plan of instruction set forth in the course
referred to as Advanced Magnetism. Thus we see two separate,
private courses of training devoted to the two realms of life
that are behind all magnetism. A few facts may help at this
stage.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 189
1. Magnetism is a power that can be developed to any
extent by the exercises and habits contained in the foundation
book.
2. Magnetism, like any power, must employ as its tools the
faculties of human life.
3. The faculties are divided into two classes—Mental and
emotional.
4. What a man thinks, plans, and decides upon are con-
trolled by the faculties of the mind.
5. What a man feels, hopes for, wishes, loves, hates, seeks,
rejects, enjoys, disobeys, adopts, and exists in harmony with,
are controlled by his moods and emotions, and the faculties by
which they are expressed.
6. As all life belongs to these two sets of faculties, and as
all power is derived from magnetism, it follows that the great
work of the Magnetism Club must include a complete and
thorough course of training in Mental Magnetism, and another
complete and thorough course of training in the moods and
feelings, which is called Advanced Magnetism.
As this present work is one of the series of courses in that
Club, its position should be understood in connection with the
others. The organization would be a tangled mass of laws and
doctrines if they were not classified, each in its place with its
goal ahead. To know what the Club is doing, and by what
methods it proceeds, is demanded by all its members ; and this
is the reason why the student is referred to the proper courses
for aid in mastering all the work that is outlined.
It is important to know that magnetism cannot work alone,
nor can any power. If the architect spends all his life learning
the duties and teachings of his profession, he will never perform
anything. He has his apprenticeship. When he leaves that
stage and goes out into the great battlefield of the world, he
must build. At first he will build in one line of activities ;
then he will be led by his genius into a higher line, and finally
he will seek the grandest honours that await him. The same
procedure is true in magnetism. The term of apprenticeship
occurs while he is mastering the work of the foundation ; there
he develops the power and the knowledge ; but as magnetism
is all life itself, it must include the great divisions of life.
The emotions are the first faculties.
190 SEX MAGNETISM
They precede knowledge.
What we know we first felt. The brain is the result of
reasoning out the emotions, their causes and effects. Had
there been no emotions, there would have been no mind.
As our students require this outlining of the plan of the
Club in each book, it has always been our custom to make
clear what each course means, and its place in connection with
the others. The three following facts will now be plain :
1. Radial magnetism must employ the faculties in order
to become effective.
2. The faculties of the mind must be made highly magnetic,
as is done in Mental Magnetism ; and the faculties of the
emotions must be made highly magnetic, as is done in Advanced
Magnetism.
3. Sex Magnetism, being a form known as radial, achieves
its best success when based on the highest development of
mental and emotional magnetism.
As all persons are magnetic to some extent, any degree of
this power will be helpful, even if these two intervening courses
are omitted ;
but it is important that, sooner or later, every
student of the present work shall take the regular courses in
the Magnetic Club. As they may be obtained on the co-
operative plan at slight expense, there is no reason why the
matter should be delayed. There is too much at stake.
That the emotions precede the mind in all the operations of
life is easily proved. At birth there is supposedly no in-
telligence in the child, and the brain is comparatively smooth.
The first sensation is the emotion of hunger. Then follow
heat, cold, and pain ; all felt and registered first in the nervous
system, and then conveyed to the brain, where impressions
are there made on which reasoning will some day be set in
motion as a mental faculty.
The desire to be amused and be given attention is an
emotion. It takes almost complete possession of the life of a
child at an early period, and there are very few persons in after
life who lose this desire. It is a crowning emotion.
Hunger creates all the tastes, good and bad, that force
themselves into the habits ; all the vices of the palate and
stomach are the outgrowths of this original desire. Pleasure
is all the time being sought. Sweets are more pleasant than
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 191
plain things, and joy will attend the gift of chocolates, while
anger may accompany the arrival of a piece of bread, in the
experiences of the very young infant who has passed the first
year of its career.
Men and women like to eat and drink the things that give
them pleasure. Ordinary water is unattractive to some
tastes, because it contains no element of enjoyment. In the
bottles on the shelf are scores and, perhaps, hundreds of liquids
that actually give satisfaction to some men and women. Many
things are taken into the mouth that convey no food to the
body, but that are enjoyed in spite of that fact. Milk is
nutritious and necessary ; but it supports life, and, therefore,
is not a source of pleasure to the taste that expects liquor or
champagne, gum or tobacco, toffee or soda water, cake or ice-
cream, puddings or pastry.
All children are born with their mouths open, and they are
ready to eat just two seconds by the clock after their birth,
This readiness of the mouth to open all the time during life
until sickness closes it temporarily, is the source of nine-tenths
of all the crime in the world, and practically all the bodily illness
and suffering.
Marriage must take into account these facts.
Most husbands either smoke, chew tobacco, drink alcoholic
beverages, or like rich cooking. Most wives enjoy the chocolate-
box, the sweets of the table, or the products of the soda-water
fountain, assuming that they have none of the grosser tastes of
men. In any event it is the open mouth all the time, year in
and year out.
If no other feeling but hunger were at stake the matter
would be quickly settled by the common sense of the mind ;
but when the wife finds much pleasure in what enters her
mouth and when the husband finds as much joy in what he
puts in his mouth, these emotions of the brighter side of life
cannot be avoided. They mean often the success or failure of
the marriage itself. If the wife sees that rich foods, attractive
cooking and pleasing drinks are placed before her husband, she
may or may not achieve that result that she most has in mind.
Some forms of pastry are enticing ; and if an engagement
depended on the man's enjoyment of them, he would propose
as soon as he had begun to partake, but not an hour afterwards.
192 SEX MAGNETISM
The palate is one thing, and the stomach another.
What highly pleases the palate in most cases displeases the
stomach. What is most graciously swallowed is digested with
the greatest difficulty. What the palate will hold and act
upon with the greatest deliberation and slowness, is a source of
pleasure to the stomach.
In other words, eagerness of the palate means reluctance of
the stomach.
The wife who can please the stomach will in time secure the
greatest hold on the regard and respect of the husband ; but
the wife that aims to please the palate will lose her happiness.
The stomach likes only the foods and drinks that enter into
the construction of the body ; all else being a source of dis-
pleasure and disease to it.
The palate likes only the things that give joy, and these, as
a rule, are enemies to the stomach.
The new wife under the new regime, as taught by the
book "How to Live a Healthy Life," will learn the new
combination, which is :
Select and prepare the things that the stomach will like, and
that will enter into the construction of the body, and prepare
them in such a way that the palate will be eager for them.
This is the new religion of married life, and it is sure to
become a part of every well-conducted home in the future
because it is right ; it has the endorsement of all the best
physicians who care more for their patients' lives than for
their purses. Experiments have been made for years, and
proof has been abundant that it is possible to prepare whole-
some and plain foods that they will be attractive to the palate.
To-day the reverse is true, for what gives pleasure to the
palate does harm to the stomach, and through that organ to
the nerves and mind, bringing irritability, weakness, neuras-
thenia and kindred disorders in clouds to humanity. The
greatest sufferers are the husbands of young wives who are
experimenting in cooking, and who have learned to make one
kind of cake as the missing link between nothing to eat and
a pain in the stomach. Bread, potatoes, vegetables and plain
foods are beneath their art. Not one woman in ten knows
how to properly cook potatoes, the staple of wholesome
foods.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 193
In proportion as plain foods are made attractive to the
palate without taking from their value, in the same ratio will
the desire for rich stuff, stimulants and abnormal things grow
less. This is the light in the gloom. It is the hope of the
future.
Pain is an emotion.
When there is pain in the nervous system, or when there
is irritabihty in the body, it will creep into the voice. You
can speak ever so softly, the colour of irritabihty is there.
The wife who gives her husband a case of indigestion will get
it back in his irritable nature, and she will blame his disposi-
tion. Likewise the husband who will not seek to educate his
wife along higher lines of domestic life will receive back from
her the voice of irritability. She does not intend to speak
in such tones, nor does he, but they cannot help it.
The voice need not be cross to be irritable.
Many a time you will hear a man trying to be agreeable.
He will not use a loud voice ; in fact, he may have it well
modulated, but it will bear the emotion of pain, not conscious
pain, but the suffering that is blind, and that breaks forth
mildly in irritable nerves. He will be uninteresting. The
less he talks the better it will be for him, but he will be looked
upon as sulky. The more he talks the less his wife will care
to hear him. More than once a wife has said, " Henry, there
is something in your voice that I do not like." " Well, what
is it, Rosie ? Have I said anything that has hurt your
feelings ?
" " No." " Well, have I used a cross tone to you ?
"
"No." "Well, what in—what is the matter with you?"
" There, there, Henry, you are cross now." And so it goes.
How much magnetism has that husband ?
How much is he able to generate in his wife ?
Where is the harmony in that home % She will go away to
some other room, if she can spare it, and there her eyes will
redden with tears that she is too proud to encourage.
Pain lowers vitality, and a lowered vitality means the loss
of radial magnetism. If you could see the power of a man
or woman who is magnetic as it radiates out from the body
at its best, and again when it is weakened by pain or loss of
vitality, you would then understand the action on it by pain
and weakness. Of course, it is not a visible form of power,
13
194 SEX MAGNETISM
but it is as real, or even more real, than any electric energy
that takes the form of magnetism, as in the lodestone or
magnet from which emanates an attracting force.
As the faculties are aids to radial magnetism, and as pain,
weakness, joy and suffering are faculties of the feelings or
emotions, they play a part that is most important. The voice,
a faculty of the mind in its advanced form, is the expression
of the emotions in its primitive condition. The voice came
into being in response to the emotions.
The cry of hunger is the emotional voice.
The cry of pain is the same, but in another emotion.
The cry of joy, the shout of laughter, the cry of alarm, of
hate, of fear, or hope, of anticipation, of disappointment and
many others are all made in different tones, and eventually in
different vowel combinations, to which are attached beginnings
and ends called consonants, and these become words ; so that
language is built of emotions expressed in voice. This is the
first step in language formation all over the world. If a new
race were to be placed on this globe, with no ancestors to give
them a mother-tongue, their emotional uses of the voice would
set up new words, while their attempts to reproduce sounds
from nature would make the second step, and their imagina-
tions of various things would constitute the third step.
The basis, however, is the voice of emotions. It begins
all other ideas and facts as they grow to become parts of
human thought.
By the tones the heart is made manifest. One or two tones
by themselves may be so concealed that they will stand as
neutral, except to the expert ; but the use of words in sentences,
as in conversation, will quickly win confidence or repel it when
magnetism is lacking. It is only a stupid mind that is deceived
by a non-magnetic voice.
Such a voice is mere sound.
When the scores of emotions are fully cultivated as an art
and all their degrees and variations made a part of the practice
of a magnetic habit, it will be an easy matter to recognize the
emotion that prevails in any other person, whether the latter
is magnetic or not. This recognition happens on the principle
of the musical string ; let it be struck, and it will start in
motion its mate in another musical instrument. This is a
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 195
very common occurrence. If one note of a piano is vibrated,
it will set vibrating every harmonic note on the same instru-
ment, such as the seconds, third, fifths and eighths ; and it
will give a leading tone vibration to its exact mate in any
other instrument near by. So a person may sound a note in
his voice, and the mate to it will vibrate in an instrument in
the same room, even if the latter is some distance away.
Sound is a radial force.
The voice devoid of magnetism is a dead noise. When it
is magnetic it is a radial force. When it is charged with an
emotion it is the conveyor of that feeling. When it is charged
with an emotion and has no magnetism, it touches a similar
feeling like a harsh discord, and is not repelled easily ;
whereas,
if it is magnetic and is charged with an emotion, it becomes
the controlling agent of the person to whom it is directed.
There are many of the dark, or unpleasant, emotions that
are masters of men and women, and that bring disaster to all
who are at its mercy. The feelings that sway us ought always
to be the nobler and more useful moods, while those that are
worthy should be controlled by ourselves, if we would be truly
magnetic. For this reason the magnetic person does not
allow these dark emotions to get into his voice. He employs
only the better moods. More than this, he feels only the better
moods.
Magnetism in the foundation course teaches perfect self-
control. This mastery gives all the better emotions to the
person, and prevents him from using the dark moods, or being
moved by them, of feeling them. This is a three-sided victory ;
the highest kind of self-control.
It is not possible to master another person and be mastered
by the very moods that make another person weak.
The great office of magnetism then is to remove all emotions
from the voice except those that are pleasing to other persons.
Sympathy is the conformity of two temperaments that
cause them to be agreeable to each other. A sympathetic voice
is one whose tones are agreeable, assuring, inviting and
attractive.
If the husband has magnetism he will have none of the dark
moods in his nervous system. When things go wrong he will
be able to master them and keep out of his temperament the
196 SEX MAGNETISM
moods that cause dislike or uneasiness in another. He will
not be snappish, or whine, or find fault, or grumble, or be
peevish, or get angry, or otherwise make himself unattractive
to his wife. Every part of his nervous system will be on the
bright side. If she has hard luck in the performance of some
of her duties, he will not laugh at her, for he will not be frivolous
nor will he chide her, for he will not rebuke ; but he will
come into her own state of mind as it was when she thought
success was at hand, and that feeling will soon be made para-
mount in her heart again.
How little a man or woman is after the one snappish tone
of the voice ! It may not last more than a second, yet it will
reverberate in the brain of the other party for years. It reveals
the littleness of the bond of marriage. Who wants to hear
a man or woman whine, even for a second only ? What is
the feeling towards a person after the fretted temper has had
its say ?
All these smallnesses are swept away by the noble force
of personal magnetism, which will not allow one of them to
remain in the system. They are little things, but it takes only
one of them to drive out all sympathy out of the voice, and
with it there will go much of the respect and confidence that
a wife seeks in the husband, and he in her. Sympathy of
voice and manner is necessary ; but any person can see at a
glance that sympathy cannot exist a moment in a voice that
is saturated with ill-nature.
The voice of sympathy cannot be assumed. The weakest
thing in human nature is the attempt to be sympathetic when
there is nothing real in the effort. The artificial character of
such an attempt strikes on the ear harshly, and grates on the
very chords of the heart.
Here is a family that has been suddenly stricken with
grief. A man calls to extend his sympathy, but he cannot
find the tones of voice that will convey it. His words are all
that can be expected, and in print they would pass as correct,
or be well-received if written in a letter ; but when spoken
they have nothing that is real in them. The reason is that he
lacks that feeling in his own nature.
But in the broader definition of the word sympathy is a
conformity of two temperaments. There need be no sorrow.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 197
Joy can be shared, and that is what is meant by conformity.
Hope may be shared. Any effort to accomplish something
that is worth while may be shared by two persons, and the
union is then filled with harmony. Selfishness is one of the
opposing terms of sympathy. It is a dark mood, an evil
emotion. It is killed by magnetism, for the man who possesses
this great power drives out of his own life the little meannesses
that prevail so much in others. The husband who lacks
selfishness can have his mind in conformity with that of his
wife, and his heart as well, and their two temperaments will
be in absolute harmony.
Did you ever notice the methods of a magnetic person ?
Take a husband, if you will, for an example. He does
not raise his voice to loudness, nor does he thrust it in every-
thing that occurs, nor compel his wife to hear it too much ;
but when he speaks she is glad to listen. There is a gentle-
ness, even combined with great magnetic firmness in its tones.
There is a musical softness that is not weakness. It flows
without effort, and ceases as it flows, easily and at that point
where something in response stands on the tongue of the
listener. It is a pleasing voice to hear. No one would ever
tire of it. It has directness and straightforwardness, yet
is not aggressive. It has no challenge. It defies no one.
It is inviting and charming. There is a quietude in the man
as in his voice. He is strong in feature, and his tones are
firm, but they have the simple quietude of the great river that
can 'carry ships of the heaviest burden, yet makes no hurrying
motion.
This magnetic man is in perfect poise, is self-constrained,
and is never in a mental or nervous rush. He may be very
active without being in a hurry. The river that is deepest
has the least apparent movement. The river that ripples and
dashes over the shallows and creates the sound of rushing
waters cannot sustain on its bosom any vessel of size and
importance.
We know of such husbands. Their wives think them the
most attractive men in the world, and they compare them
constantly with all the other men that are attractive, and it is
a fact they would not exchange them for the others.
Wives are not as often students of magnetism as are men,
198 SEX MAGNETISM
and for this reason they are the prey of their emotions, every
passing mood making itself felt in their manner and voices.
They do not care to tie themselves down to the practice of
the extensive work of Advanced Magnetism, where the emotions
are brought under perfect control, and where poise and self-
containment are cultivated to a degree that exceeds any
other accomplishment in all the history of personal training.
But men go easily and eagerly through all those studies,
and soon are masters of their emotions. In every hundred
male students of Advanced Magnetism where reports of progress
have been made it seems that ninety-two succeed to a perfect
record, and the eight who do not graduate from it are merely
inclined to read the exercises and methods. Reading brings
some results, but they depend on the ability of the individual
to absorb what is read. Practice is needed in that wide range
of human nature, and practice must be indulged in just as
there directed if success is desired. Women, as a rule, read
and re-read the methods, and lay the work aside, only nineteen
in a hundred having reported perfect mastery of the moods
and emotions under the system. The nineteen in every hundred
have, however, been changed from women of discouraged lives
to women of queenly powers over men. On the other hand,
the ninety-two of every hundred of the men who have succeeded
in achieving perfect mastery over their emotions, and winning
the great goals of a supreme power and prosperity in their
life work, contrast with the nineteen women in every hundred
as a lesson which tells why the weaker sex is weaker.
They lack perseverance.
When a woman has a sympathetic nature and a sympathetic
voice, she is in her most attractive mood. No woman of
beauty can compete with her. The most entrancing beauty
looks weak and doll-like in comparison with her. A man of
good judgment in all matters except the charms of women
once was nearly caught by as pretty a face as you could ever
hope to see in a lifetime. He had money, and she made up
her mind that she would win him on that account ; so she
was as affirmative and as coy in her attractions as her sex could
possibly make herself. He was wholly overcome, and was
about to propose to her, when another woman, plain of face,
neat of dress and pleasing in figure, came upon the scene,
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 199
wholly by accident. She happened to be a magnetic woman
of the highest degree of power, such as graduates from the
course in Universal Magnetism. She certainly had the
sympathetic manner and voice. The man saw her, and paid
but little attention to her, until the pretty maiden began to
use the plainer woman as a foil with which to show off her
superior beauty by engaging her in conversation. The latter
replied plainly, without affectation, and most sweetly. The
man was at once struck by the remarkable difference in the
two voices ; one devoid of that human element, sympathy,
the other full of it. The voice soon made the face. The beauty
was weak of features in the conversation ; the other was fasci-
nating by her charms.
Men and women, the best and the smartest of them, see
things through their emotions. They may think they use
their eyes, and they do ; but their eyes must finally record
the impressions on the brain. If there were no other organs
of sight but the eyes, nothing would be seen. The brain sets
up the real picture. So it is possible to see a plain woman
with the naked eye, and by her side a most beautiful, also
viewed with the naked eyes, while the brain records the plain
woman as the most charming, and the pretty woman as the
weakest. This man said :
" I did, in fact, think the woman
who first entered the room the most beautiful I had ever looked
upon. I had seen her several times before, and she was always
just as fascinating. But the second woman seemed to me
when first she came in to be very plain. As she talked I saw
the two faces in my mind. My eyes were as good then as now ;
yet I saw this plain woman exchange charms with the other.
As the minutes went by the first woman grew less interest-
ing, and the second woman began to grow beautiful. At last
they had each been reversed, and no longer was the beautiful
creature a creature of beauty."
All human beings see with their emotions.
They say love is blind ; it sees with its emotions.
The husband who is in love with his wife wakes up soon
after marriage and sees her with his eyes. Then he wonders
why he ever married her. He must make the best of it, and
would not for the world let her know just what his feelings
are.
200 SEX MAGNETISM
Sex Magnetism intensifies the emotions with which one
sees the other. It is right that it should do so. Before we
finish this course of training we shall show the necessity of
this high state of cultivation of the emotional powers that will
exalt women and place man on the pedestal of greater worth.
All else is animal existence.
Life began with emotions. Language began with emotions.
All happiness and pleasure began with emotions, and can
live only in them. There is nothing in life that is worth having
unless it brings content, happiness, hope and deep satisfaction ;
and all these are emotions. Human beings have all their
existence in the faculties, and these are of two classes—one
of the mind, and the other of emotions. To hunt in the mind
for the pleasure and climax of living would be useless, for it
is fruitless of these things. There is nothing in the mental
division of life except what we think, and every person who
has carried on any process of self-analysis, however simple,
knows perfectly well that what we feel is what we really are.
The higher the man and the woman may rise in the scale of
existence, the more will life be lived in the emotions ;
not in
any of the dark and weak ones, but in the strong and inviting
ones, just as is taught in the course of Advanced Magnetism.
In that training true life has had its beginning in fact for
many a man and woman.
The human soul lives in its emotions. It cannot be taught
by the operations of the mind, but it has no mental faculties.
This fact has been well proved in all cases where reason has
sought to convince men and women of the necessity of a
higher life. Religion that appeals to the mind will never
make any headway in the world, and the thousands of years
of history show this law to be a universal one.
An age of reason is an age of suicide.
All the beauty, all the grandeur, all the sweetness of life
must be seen and known through the emotions.
It is in the emotions that sympathy holds sway over other
hearts. These make temperament, for that is the sum-total
of the particular emotions that prevail in one person. The
best thing a magnetic husband ever did was to take an account
of stock of his wife's temperament ; which means that, by
the rules of another course, he could ascertain to a certainty
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 201
every one of the emotions, good and bad, that she possessed.
Then, having secured this account of stock, or inventory, he
showed her the way to sift out and to part with the dark
ones, and to add to the bright ones. This was a healthy process,
for her mind, as weU as her nervous vitality, were made stronger
and brought both to a normal condition.
Temperament is the sum-total of the emotions that prevail
in one person.
Sympathy is the conformity of two temperaments, so that
they are attractive to each other.
Opposing temperaments are attractive only when their
bright emotions make the opposition.
When one person has dark emotions that oppose the bright
emotions of another person, there wiU not be accord.
When one person has dark emotions that oppose the dark
emotions of another person, no matter whether they are the
same emotions or not, there will be discord and quarrelling.
In briefer language :
1. Any dark emotions that differ will make discord.
2. Any dark emotions that are opposed to any bright
emotions will make discord.
3. Any bright emotions that differ will make harmony.
4! Any bright emotions that agree will make the greatest
harmony.
5. Any dark emotions that will agree will make the greatest
combination of wrong, as where two or more pals in a gang
become conspirators in any line of crime.
The most pleasing fact is that any bright emotions that
differ will make harmony. This is due to the peculiar force
of the bright side of human nature. Two persons may be
wholly different, each from the other, and yet get along nicely
together. Some persons teach the mingling of different tem-
peraments. But the well-founded results of many tests show
the following laws to be the true measure :
1. Where the temperament is made up largely of some
bright emotions, and meets with another temperament that
is made up largely of some bright emotions, these two tempera-
ments are in accord only when both possess some of the same
emotions that are possessed by each other. This is called the
overlapping of similar emotions.
202 SEX MAGNETISM
2. Where one temperament has none of the emotions that
prevail in another temperament, there will not be a conformity
of temperament, and sympathy is not easily possible without
a complete revolution in one or both of these persons.
3. Without a possibility of sympathy there can be no
possibility of harmony. The fact that two lives, one male
and the other female, are on the bright side of the emotions
will not bring them together where there is a total diversity
of temperament. There must be some over-lapping emotions ;
some that are the same in both persons. Let this be lacking,
and marriage will be a cold assembling of icebergs, bright,
but chilly.
Marriage is a coming together—a union.
Before a man weds a woman, or engages himself to her,
he should master the emotions by the methods taught in
Advanced Magnetism, and then should develop in himself
the power to take an account of stock of his own emotions,
and her's also. This can be done to a certainty. By the
processes of magnetism all persons who put into practice the
methods taught are given the ability to know themselves,
and to know others. When the old Greek savant said, " Know
thyself," he may have intended to tell people to know their
own anatomy, or their own mental powers, but we are sure
that he had in mind the knowledge of the temperament
within the individual, and this means the knowledge of the
emotions.
By temperament in this study is not meant the physio-
logical character, as the nervous, the sluggish and such kinds ;
but the real make-up of the person through the developed
nature within.
It is possible for any man to learn to take an account of
stock of his own temperament and that of the woman whom
he seeks to make his wife. It is possible for any woman to
learn how to take an account of stock of her own tempera-
ment and that of the man who would marry her. It is possible
for both to drive out of their lives all control over them of
their own dark emotions, and to add to the bright emotions
that have been enhanced by magnetism.
But when they have come down to that point of discovery
where they learn that they have no temperament in common,
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 203
nor any portion thereof, then there is the place where their
lives should part.
If you are not yet married, but are engaged, delay until
these things may be ascertained. You will never regret it,
and you may have before you a lifelong sorrow if you fail
to heed this advice.
If you are not yet engaged, but are on the verge of making
the promise, stop and wait. Nothing can be gained by hurry,
and everything is at stake in the lives of two persons. If
you say to yourself that YOU and the other party will not
be like others who have made marriage a failure, just count
up the millions who have said the same thing and then have
had to swallow the assertion. In a city a clerk who issues
marriage licenses was called on by a young man who asked
for a license to marry the " best girl in the world." " Hold
on there," said the clerk, " you are the seven hundred and
fiftieth young man who has taken out a license to marry her
since I have been here, and you cannot all have her."
People see with their emotions.
That being true, they should be master of their emotions,
and not be ruled by them. The mob is swayed by its emotions,
as is the man who kills in a temper. The magnetic man or
woman rides above all emotions, and drives them to the harness
of his or her chariot.
If you are a man, find out the temperaments both of your-
self and the woman. If you are a woman, find out the tempera-
ments both of yourself and the man. If there are too many
dark parts to your own temperament, withdraw from the
prospect until you ascertain if there is a chance of driving away
the evil nature. Apply the same test to the other party.
Take time to study, to develop and to know the truth.
There must be a conformity of temperament.
There must be sympathy in the sense described.
As the voice carries in its tones the colour and picture of
every mood and emotion, the voice should be made the medium
of winning and of holding the respect and the goodwill of the
other person.
See that no moods or emotions stand forth in the voice
except those that are on the bright side of life. See that these
are made stronger day by day, and let their colour be conveyed
204 SEX MAGNETISM
in the voice. Know every tone you utter, and know what it
contains. Let it never take care of itself, but always be its
master and its directing power. To its use add all the magnet-
ism you can develop. The voice, then, being a radial energy,
will bring close to your life the individual who is intended to
come there. It may be necessary to break an engagement,
or to withdraw from one that is intended ;
but if you are
married, it is too late to dissolve that union. Maintain it at
all hazards until the time comes when a higher voice shall set
you free. But most marriages that are now discords can be
made better than they are ; and many may be brought wholly
within the harmony of Sex Magnetism. We shall see as this
work progresses.
SECOND RADIAL LAW
Sex Magnetism demands that you make yourself believed in.
If you are a man, some woman must believe in you. If you
are a woman, some man must believe in you. These are the
counterbalancing laws of life. While it is better that the
woman who believes in the man shall be his wife, and the man
who believes in the woman shall be her husband, the law
remains the same in any event. If you are a husband, and your
wife merely tolerates you, your usefulness in the household is
not very important. If she does not believe in you, there is
some reason for it. On the other hand, if you are a wife, and
your husband regards you as a very useless piece of furniture,
there is some reason for it. The reason may rest in the char-
acter of the other party, but this is very unlikely.
Why women marry men is as often a matter of conjecture
to the women as to impartial outsiders. What is gained by
marriage ? If nothing is the value estimated, then there is a
reason why this is so. Why men marry women is also a wonder
in many cases. The profit side of the transaction is missing,
and the loss side is large to both sexes. If the period of court-
ship could be spent in deliberate study of the two sides of the
account, there would be very little chance for the after regrets.
Each party would then have time to establish a solid belief
in the other, or become worthy of such belief.
One girl married a football player because, as she said, she
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 205
wanted a man who was a man. Her idea of such a being was
a fellow with muscle. After they were married she found that
he had nothing else. He was not inclined to work, and his
muscle was so energetic that it could not be tuned down to
the chords that belonged to home life.
Another girl married a young man because one day she
caught him in army uniform, and she wanted a brave
husband. She did not stop to find out if the uniform
made him brave, nor how he came to be a soldier. She
just took it for granted that the uniform was all that was
necessary. After the wedding, and some time after the honey-
moon was over and forgotten, this same fellow was seen
lounging about the house as indolent as the Southern darkey
in his days of ease ; and the wife wondered how so small a
proportion of man could have got so large a proportion of
uniform into his make-up.
She remarked to a friend that he was the smallest apology
for the masculine gender she had ever seen, although physically
he was tall enough and broad enough. What was lacking
was manhness.
Another girl married a man on account of his good looks.
He was handsome, and she liked him for that reason ;
but
she had her misgivings until there were several other girls in
the same town who were trying to catch him. So she thought
it a victory to take him from her rivals. He was conceited.
All handsome men are conceited. Some of them do not intend
to be, but they all are. He knew he was good-looking, and
he knew that the girls watched him, and all liked his attentions,
and he paid them out in such a way that they wanted more.
But marriage ended his triumphs. He posed before the
mirrors, and bought two new ones. He was of no benefit in
the house, and his wife was rather glad when he went out.
The other girls cut him, and did not even give him a glance
or a bow ; but some women rather enjoyed his flirtations, and
the end was a divorce for the little wife who wed him because
he was handsome.
Another girl married a man because he had money. The
advantages of having money are many, especially when there
are household bills to be paid. But if the husband has nothing
else, the union is rarely ever worth while. Another woman
206 SEX MAGNETISM
married because her husband had a good business. He kept
a little store, the income from which was not much in excess
of ten shillings a day, and the hours were long. Her needs
were not many. After a while she drifted into the store, and
liked the variety of action that came from performing the
duties of selling odds and ends and seeing the cash drop in the
money-drawer. She soon grew to be penurious, but the life
suited them both. After a year or more the business grew,
and the profits were several times greater. Then she had a
better home, and remained in it. But at the start the object
of entering wedlock was to secure the income that the man
derived from the little business. This mercantile marriage is
neither commendable nor objectionable, if their temperaments
are alike in the matter. It all depends on temperament.
Some women marry for love, but as a rule they are in their
teens or very early twenties. We do not believe that any
woman who is much over twenty-one takes love seriously, as
it is a puberty affection, arising on the impulse then estab-
lished. In the sense portrayed by poets and novelists, love is
a young person's malady ; and when age has added a few more
years, it is a high form of respect, or a feeling of exaltation.
Whoever marries for love, and for nothing else, makes a
lifelong mistake. If there is something besides love to induce
the union, then the presence of this affection is no handicap,
as a general rule. But that something else is the main attrac-
tion. It is something that compels a wife to believe in her
husband, and a husband to believe in his wife ;
not to trust or
to have confidence, but to entertain a regard that is real, and
that would be just as real if there were no other persons in the
world. A man may have trust in the honesty and virtue of
his wife, even if she is a very silly and weak woman. A wife
may have confidence in the faithfulness and honour of her
husband, even if he is a lazy and worthless fellow in all other
respects. To believe in a person is to hold a degree of admira-
tion and satisfying esteem that elevates that person above all
others who might have been in the same relationship. A wife
should feel that she has married, not the best man in all the
world, but the man who was best for her ;
whose care of her
and associations with her make him the one above all others
who was best suited to her temperament and heart.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 207
A man should think he has married, not the best woman in
all the world, but the one who was best for him. He should
find her something more than a mate, something more than a
helpmate, something more than a housekeeper, something
more than an ornament.
In what way may he make himself believed in ?
It is not his honesty that is at stake. If he lies to her he
drops very low, and will not be able to extricate himself from
the slough of meanness that he has got into. We do not see
exactly how a wife can ever respect a husband who has lied to
her. He might lie to others, and she have knowledge of it,
and they both might take it as a piece of diplomacy or strategy,
or business enterprise, or necessary escape from some con-
tingency that had no other release ; for there are wives who even
participate in the falsehoods told by their husbands, as may
be seen in small stores where both wait upon customers and
make untrue representations about their goods. Some men
boast too extravagantly, and thus pass easily into falsehoods.
Wives overlook such hyperbole, and take no offence if they are
not the subjects of it. That is, a man may tell his wife a lie
when he is boasting of some adventure, some great deed, some
event or transaction in which she is not involved ; but if he
tells her he has no money when he has plenty, or if he says
he posted a letter of hers to her mother when he tore it up, or
if he reports that he did not meet his former sweetheart when
he had a moment's conversation with her on the street corner,
he is making for himself a bed that is not of roses. These
falsehoods are base, and show a low character. It is cheap to
falsify in boasting or in selling goods or otherwise, but it is
evidence of a low grade of character to tell a positive lie to one
who has a right to know the exact truth. A man who has a
pleasant reason for making an untrue statement is always for-
given ; as where the husband has bought a necklace for his wife
to be given to her on her birthday, and she discovers some trace
of his purchase in the form of an addressed box which he quickly
conceals, as he wishes to surprise her most magnificently when
the birthday comes ; and she asks him point-blank where he
got it and what it is for and he tells her it is an old watch
chain that he is having repaired, whereupon she proceeds to
ascertain the truth, and puts him down as a falsifier, weeping
208 SEX MAGNETISM
and making ready to pack her things and go home to her
mother, when he is compelled, under the law of self-preserva-
tion, to show her the necklace, and the bill of fifty pounds
receipted, with her initials engraved, so that there is no doubt
about the purpose of the purchase ; she quickly forgives him.
But he has not the respect for her that she might have secured
had she been more of a woman than a child.
Women are more magnetic than girls.
In the last cited case there is nothing in the conduct of the
husband to lessen the wife's regard for him. His talk about
the watch chain that needed repairing is referred to for some
weeks afterwards as a piece of pleasantry. It shows no mean-
ness of character.
He must be honest in word to her, and honest in all acts
to her.
If he cheats others and she never suspects that he has cheated
her, she will not refuse to believe in him if her temperament is
of the same character. The temperament and conscience have
much to do with the degree of regard that is entertained for
another person. A refined woman would hold in contempt a
husband who cheated others, although he was honest to her in
word and act. But there are women who do not really know
that business lies are wrong ;
they would go so far as to be
smitten with conscience if their husbands were to admit the
faults, as of a horse, or some merchandise that was to be
sold.
In the ranks where Sex Magnetism would have any elevat-
ing power, no kind of dishonesty, whether diplomacy, strategy,
subterfuge or the direct falsehood could be indulged in and
respect be retained, and it is in those ranks that this work
is to be taken.
Therefore, in order to make yourself believed in, be honest
in word and act, omit all exaggerations and untruths, deceive
none, be clean in speech and in thought, in body and mind,
and be frank at all times.
But something more than honesty is necessary. A person
of good habits may be believed in, provided there is further
reason for the respect and admiration that are required. Merely
good habits will not suffice. A wife says :
" My husband does
not drink, nor smoke, gamble, swear, He or have any bad
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 209
habits." Yet he may be very weak in character and in mind,
lazy in body and mean in disposition. One of the most
contemptible curs we ever knew was a man who did not lie,
smoke, swear, drink, gamble or otherwise offend ; but he was
always engaged in something mean. He had no friends on
account of his unmanly ways. He was what is called a churl.
While the chances are that such a man would add some other
fault to his meanness, the absence of the great faults is not
of itself a guarantee of manliness.
A man who always tells the truth is not, therefore, neces-
sarily a manly person. He who always refrains from dishonest
and unclean acts is not, therefore, of necessity manly and noble.
Wealth does not add anything to the stature of character.
But character itself, founded in all these excellencies that are
desirable in the best man, goes a great way toward inviting
belief.
Success attracts belief in a person, but the effect depends
on the one who beholds the successful individual. To be able
to make money in any honest way indicates that the man has
exceptional judgment ; that he planned wisely and well, and
that he knows more than the average of men. Thus success
invites some degree of homage. Then comes the question :
What is success ? If it is the winning of money, it places
the man higher up in the scale of usefulness than if he had
inherited it ; for every woman likes to know that her husband
can earn money in large amount, as she fears that he may
lose what he inherits. It is better to be able to earn five
thousand pounds than to have it given to you. The man
who inherits money, and then adds to it, is looked upon as
more capable than his benefactor.
But success in this line is not enough.
All the good things in humanity, and the power to win
in the world, do not constitute the whole scope of influence
which a man should exercise over his wife. They are helps.
A bad habit stands in the way of making her believe in you ;
but it of itself does not entitle you to her belief in you as the
one best man for her. You see that bad traits make it impos-
sible, while good traits only help some.
Then what is the secret ?
Strength of heart.
14
210 SEX MAGNETISM
What is this quality, and how may it be described ?
A man is strong of heart not because of his moral or ethical
character, but because of his inherent manliness. He has
something about him that is noble. It is partly based on
strength of mind, for that depends on good sense and the
best judgment. Book learning may not be attended by, or
result in, strength of mind. Some persons are well-educated
who are painfully weak in judgment and practical common
sense. The habit of transferring from the pages of school
books facts that depend on the exercise of memory does not
build up the mind ;
yet most of the graduates of schools and
colleges are no more than memorizers. What they can re-
member they know, and when they forget it they do not know
it. This is not mental strength.
A merely moral man is not necessarily strong of heart.
Some people are moral, and offensively so. Their goodness is
negative, like the house that held only dead bodies ; it was fine
in architecture, but did not house living folks or do affirmative
good.
The meaning of ethics is irreligious morality. It may be
negatively good, like religion ; or affirmatively good, like
charity. It is freedom from the things that are sins per se. It
is a help to a strong heart, but is not enough.
Still, something more is needed.
It is that indefinable nature that shows real worth. Words
do not easily describe it. A man is accustomed to ask himself
what he was good for, and he repeated this inquiry many nights
before he fell asleep, and in the mornings after he awoke, making
the question the last thought of the day and the first thought
of the new morning. It thus became a part of himself, and
it next inspired the desire to answer it in the affirmative. " I
will be a man of real worth," he would declare. He did not
want to be a mere machine to go through the work of the day,
year in and year out, for that was nothing but routine slavery
to self-chosen tasks. By real worth he did not mean money
value, but something more than character, or something added
to character ; a man within a human frame. He wanted a
better mind, a stronger heart for his place in the world, and
a nature that would be appreciated among his fellow-beings.
The woman likewise must be strong of heart, must develop
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 211
good judgment and a fine strain of common sense, so that she
rises in value day by day. Her husband does not care to
point to her as a thing of beauty and say no more. He may
be asked what he would most appreciate in a woman, and
would reply :
" A grasp of the great responsibilities that
accrue in marriage, and a courage to meet them grandly."
This reply was once made by a man whose position among his
fellow-men was as high as can be attained. He had just the
kind of wife he desired. He believed in her, and she in him.
Few men are manly, noble men.
Few women are womanly, noble women.
All may acquire these traits by making up the mind to
secure them, and by living daily lives according to their
determination. We believe that every page that has preceded
thus far in this work is necessary as a means of help in the
effort to reach so grand a goal.
THIRD RADIAL LAW
Sex Magnetism demands an active body.
Activity of the body is not merely a distinction from
laziness. Many persons are hard workers who are not constantly
active in the body. Some work hard with the head, as clerks
and business or professional men. Some labour all day long,
and like to rest all the evening, or lounge around in an easy
manner. This is not constant activity.
No lazy person is magnetic, either in this line or any other.
The person who can work hard for eight or ten hours with
the muscles and come home so tired that nothing else can
be done in the twenty-four, is not magnetic. The claim is
not made here that a person who is all tired-out should go on
working in the evenings. There should never be a condition of
exhaustion except in war, or in some great calamity in times
of peace. In normal conditions the man and woman should
so work that there is never any real weariness. We cannot
see what kind of labour there is that tires a man or woman
out, if it has been properly performed.
Bad methods produce weariness.
The most graceful person is the labourer who works in a
212 SEX MAGNETISM
way that will not exhaust him. Suppose he is digging with
a pick and shovel ; if he is to be very weary after an hour or
two, he will either rush abnormally in his activity, or else
will' do things awkwardly. Magnetism requires that his
motions shall be easy, free from awkwardness, devoid of all that
is clumsy, and direct instead of wasteful. Some men take
six blows or motions to do what a graceful man will do in
one. It is lost action that makes the muscles weary.
Work so that you can keep at it indefinitely.
This is one of the laws of magnetism. It conserves and
saves the strength.
The muscles should never become exhausted.
Here we find the reason why some people are tired out all
the time, and others who do more work are fresh all the time.
Weariness takes away all radial magnetism. To be exhausted
from any cause is to be played out in magnetism, as well as
in brain force and muscular power.
All three go together.
Rest, on the other hand, takes away magnetism.
Only those persons who are always active are magnetic.
But no one must get tired. The labourer is not, as a rule,
interested in these studies ;
yet we have known of ambitious
labourers who have developed these powers by book-training,
and have rapidly risen from their lower level to higher planes
in life. One of the first things they have learned is to conserve
their strength. They have found the way to keep active all
the time, and yet never get tired. They have become graceful,
easy, ever doing something, and ever fresh. This is the
foundation of muscular magnetism.
If you will take note of any workman, no matter how strange
the name of magnetism may seem to him, who works all day
in a fresh state of the body, you will find two facts :
1. He enjoys working, and is never weary.
2. He has muscular magnetism.
Such a man should be given an opportunity to get up in
the world, for nature has made him a power, and he does
not know it. If, on the other hand, you take a man who is
awkward, clumsy and hard-working, evincing a strain in every
piece of labour he does, and if you can show him how to do
the same things in an easy, graceful and languid style, as it
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 213
seems, he will soon change his methods, and will become like
the man first mentioned. Then he will also develop muscular
magnetism, showing that this quality is only the result of
habits. What is called a gift is merely a natural outflow of
the manner in which a person lives or acts. What a man brings
into his life by his accidental habits may be trained into
another man who adopts the same habits.
We have seen many thousands of magnetic men and women,
and we have never seen one who did not acquire this quality
by putting into practice the ways of men and women who
are naturally gifted with the same quality.
The rule is a natural one, and there is no other way of
obtaining a genuine benefit in any department of existence.
Another way of stating it is to say that what a magnetic
person does, or the way he does things, will give the key to
the origin of his powers ; and any other man who can do things
in the same way will achieve the same kind of results.
There has never been a magnetic man or woman who was
not constantly active. Nor will there ever be such a man or
woman in the world. The constant activity is a generator
of vital energy that turns into magnetism under the process
of conservation. It is nature's way, and it is the way of art
borrowed from nature. Lack of activity brings a quiet condi-
tion into the nervous system. Activity that is wearying uses
up all its force as fast as it is made. Activity that continues,
and yet that saves some of the energy that it develops soon
has an excess of energy on hand.
These rules may seem rather dry as reading, but we have
seen men of the highest intellectual ability grasp them with
the eagerness of children in the presence of new gifts. They
are so important that they may be repeated hundreds of times
to advantage, and one more statement of them here will not
be amiss *
1. In the first place, what a man's habits are will deter-
mine what his powers are.
2. If he has habits that tend naturally to develop mag-
netism, he will be said to be gifted with that quality.
3. If some other man, whose habits tend to destroy his
magnetism, turns about and adopts the habits of the former
man, he will soon become naturally gifted with magnetism ;
214 SEX MAGNETISM
and, although this is called training, it is nothing but nature
at work in the wrong man to make him right. All the works
in the series of books of the Personal Magnetism Club follow
this plan, and no other. It answers the question : Can a per-
son become naturally magnetic ?
4. No man or woman ever lived who was magnetic who
was not at the same time constantly active.
5. Activity must, as a matter of necessity, develop the
energy on which it feeds.
6. Persons who work in such a way that they use up all
energy they produce as they work are tired when they get
through, and are generally weary most of the time they are
active.
7. Persons who work in such a way that they use up less
energy than they produce, have some excess of energy as a
result of their activity. By this means they generate mag-
netism.
8. As muscular magnetism is the basis of all other kinds,
the habits of constant activity under the laws of conservation
will make any man or woman very magnetic.
When you see a man who loves constant activity, watch
him to see if he saves his strength as he proceeds, or is tired
and makes it a hard effort. If the latter is the case, he will
be fretted and worn-out. If he is blessed with the gift of
saving himself, not by doing less work, but by doing as much
with less effort, then you will find a man who is magnetic.
The idler is not magnetic.
The lounger is not magnetic.
The loafer is not magnetic.
The waster of time is not magnetic.
The man or woman who works in such a way as to be
tired while at work, and exhausted when through, is far from
magnetic.
It may be said of you that you have not a lazy bone in your
body ; but you may be tired all the time and not love activity,
although you are active by force of necessity. You are in
the right way, as far as being active is concerned, but in
the wrong way by reason of the manner in which you are
active. Reform that part only, and the results will be exactly
opposite to those you now experience.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 215
In what way will you be active ?
Never loaf. That is the whole answer. Never do useless
and hurtful things. Keep going. Rest not, haste not. This
is the maxim of greatness. By resting not you keep active ;
and by hasting not you save energy which becomes magnetism.
These habits are natural with great people.
If you are a husband, you will find hundreds of things to
do ; little things, most of them ; but the house will be all the
better for your doing them. Do not be afraid to help your
wife and your children if you have them. If there is too
much serious work for your good, take up some form of physical
play ; not the kind of play that permits your being seated,
for that is dead waste of time.
Vary the muscular activity with the mental forms of employ-
ment, and you will find yourself growing strong in heart all
the time. In this way you will soon make yourself believed in.
FOURTH RADIAL LAW
Sex Magnetism demands an active mind.
There are two kinds of mental activity. One is the drift
of thought, and the other is the working power of thought.
When the mind drifts it takes with it, under the principle
of leakage, its vitality as fast as it is generated, and only a
minimum amount is generated in the process. When there is
a working of the mind, as in hard and useful thought, a special
degree of energy is created. It is only by hard thinking that
the mind grows beyond its ordinary strength.
The mind is said to be drifting when it only satisfies its
curiosity or desire for being entertained and pleased. Thus
a person who reads light matter all the time, as the paper,
or stories, novels, or simple facts, as in travel and history, is
being entertained. A working mind is adding something to
the individual power ; is storing facts and knowledge away
for future use, as the bee lays aside its honey for winter feeding.
No man or woman need be mistaken about what the mind
is doing ; whether it is drifting or adding to its value.
The use of the brain for the latter purpose is denoted physi-
cally by the loss of phosphorus from the body. After a hard
216 SEX MAGNETISM
mental effort the defects show conclusively that more than the
usual proportion of this electrical substance has been thrown
off, and there is a desire in the appetite for an excess of this
kind of food. Facts of this kind have been overworked in the
attempts to build up brain foods. These are impossible.
Nature organizes its phosphorus in certain of its products, and
man will never be able to make a substitute by compounding
them. They must come direct from animal or vegetable life.
There can then be no such thing as a brain food, and all claims
in advertisements are tricks on the unthinking classes.
But the appetite craves food containing phosphorus in pro-
portion as there is a hard use of the mind ;
and this chemical
substance is thrown off in the act of so using the brain. If
there is not enough of it in the blood, the loss will cause a
headache of a neuralgic kind ; for neuralgia is a signal or warn-
ing from nature that the foods are not of the right kind to
support vitality, or that the energy of life is being wasted, as
in excesses of some sort.
The main fact in this connection is the creation of mag-
netism in the act of hard thinking.
This working of the mind must take place in the same way
as the proper working of the muscles, which will also generate
magnetism of the muscular kind.
Thus we find two processes that generate two kinds of
magnetism.
As has been stated, a man or woman is very unwise who
works in any way to get tired. Nature takes care of exhausted
people by demanding periods of rest for them ;
but she at the
same time shows that it is not her desire that people make
themselves tired in her cause. All work is natural, but hard
and wearying work is abnormal, and has no excuse for being
tolerated.
The same is true of the mind.
In order to understand what is meant by conservation of
the magnetism that results from muscular labour, read what
has been said in the last few pages. The same laws apply to
the mind, the only difference being that the latter creates a
different kind of magnetism. But this must be conserved also.
There should be a daily margin between the created energy of
the mind and the use made of it.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 217
What straining of the muscles is to unnecessary hard work,
so straining, fussing and worrying in the use of the mind make
all it does too hard for the purposes of nature. The cure is not
to stop the work, but to change the methods employed. Take
mental study easy, by not taking one kind too long. When
a problem cannot be solved in five or ten minutes, pass on
to Latin or other study, and let the brain get its rest in
that way.
You may think that a man who has worked hard all day
is played out, but if he starts to do some more hard work
that uses the same muscles in an entirely different manner,
he will be surprised to know that he is not tired at all. As
a test of what is meant, try the following experiment
Stand on one foot a half-minute, then stand on the other
foot a half-minute.
Stand now on the foot a whole minute, then stand on the
other foot a whole minute.
Stand on the first foot two minutes, then on the other foot
two minutes.
Stand on the first foot three minutes, then on the second
foot three minutes.
Stand on the first foot four minutes, then on the other foot
four minutes.
Stand on the first foot five minutes, then on the other foot
five minutes.
The peculiar facts are that the first foot will become so
weary that exhaustion of the muscular powers will be felt
yet, after transferring the work to the other foot, the former
will be not only free from all weariness, but will be stronger
because of the way it was worked. If you keep up this practice
for a month, devoting just thirty-one minutes a day to it,
you will find the feet and legs have acquired wonderful strength,
and you will never after that complain of being unable
to walk many miles a day. Prolonged periods of rest will,
of course, throw the strength away.
The facts are so remarkable that every man and woman
should make the experiment. If it is conducted after eating
a nourishing meal, it will be found that the food from the
stomach, after about half an hour or so, will have been specially
drawn to the legs and feet, in order to give them the extra
218 SEX MAGNETISM
strength required. This test is an old one, but is worth while.
It has been used many times to destroy that tired feeling
that people complain of when they try to walk ten or twenty
miles in a day. One mile is generally the limit, and soreness
and lameness follow as a rule.
The mind may be taught to conserve its forces and to in-
crease them in the same way. Remember that this method
actually increases the power of the faculty employed.
If you desire to be useful in the processes of thinking, get
a line of studies that will lay aside for you a future hive of
practical wisdom and knowledge. If you have no choice, let
us suggest that the studies named in the fourth chapter of
this book be first put on the list. Then add a work of landscape
gardening, a book on floriculture, a book on greenhouse methods,
a book on architecture, and any other useful acquisition that
may occur to you. These books may be taken from some
library, and thus avoid expense.
As the study of foreign languages, alive or dead, compels
a person to find out more about his own language, they are
always of the highest use in enriching the mind. People often
ask what is the use of studying foreign tongues that will prob-
ably never be spoken by those who study them ? Did you
ever stop to think that a foreign tongue is not capable of being
studied, except by being translated into the words of your own
tongue ? A weak mind is weak in the number of words it can
use freely. It is not how many words you know the defini-
tion of, but how many you actually use and absorb from time
to time in your own mental activities that makes your mind
greater or weaker as an instrument of intelligence. The
strongest of all mental giants have had large vocabularies. No
person has been a success in life on a few words. What a man
uses in speech is not his vocabulary but what he has in his
system, and can employ in any way.
Such a tongue as Latin cannot be studied without study-
ing English at the same time, for Latin is known only through
its English synonyms. A word of a foreign language that
had no synonym in English would be like a tool that had
nothing it could be used for. Then it would be really dead.
Any one of hundreds of Latin words may give you a better
insight into scores of English words. Take the word duco
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 219
as an example. From it are derived our words duke, ducal,
duchess, duchy, ductile, induce, conduce, reduce, adduce,
introduce, and many others with their derivatives, until a small
vocabulary is already acquired through that one term. A
man or woman who has a usable vocabulary of five hundred
words, outside of the street talk, is already learned ;
and here
is a chance to acquire thousands of words.
We are not intending to insist that you study Latin. Our
purpose is merely to suggest some form of mental activity
that wiU store away value against the future. The greatest of
all facts is this : You cannot improve yourself without making
a new level, and to this new level you and your fortunes
will rise in the course of time.
Because the continual use of the mind will generate mental
magnetism, and the conserving of its powers will give an
excess of magnetism, you should practise some habit of mental
action, resting from it when necessary to participate in these
forms of physical activity that do not require thought in their
performance.
You will say that your time will be fully occupied, and that
you wiU have no opportunity for doing anything else ;
but
you will, for that something else is activity. It is only a choice
between useful and useless activity. You will not elect to be
inactive, for that will not harmonize with your character in
going so far in the present book as you have. A lazy mind
would not have got this far.
Any study, or studious reading, is mental activity.
To read and to re-read this work is mental activity. If
you grasp its thoughts you will be benefited in the highest
degree; so that, while you are perusing these very pages,
you are engaged in the most useful of all labours of the mind.
Every time you review the various chapters herein you will
catch new ideas, for they come thick and fast, and seem to
crop up in new crowds on each reading. They are the collected
experiences and workings of weU-established and old-time laws
of fife ; and our only connection with them is to state them
in their proper order. As all these laws are nature's, they have
not been brought into being by any effort of man ;
and what
is nature's laws must take high rank in any form of education.
The same is true of all the courses in the Magnetism Club.
220 SEX MAGNETISM
Any man or woman who seeks a long period of mind work
should undertake all those studies.
But there are many others that may be suggested. Latin
was mentioned, not to advise it, but to suggest it as one of
many. It is the best of all foreign tongues, if only one is to
be selected. Next in educational value is French, if two are
to be chosen.
What kind of special design was at work in the life of the
young man who had grown up in the service of the govern-
ment, and who was paid a salary of three hundred pounds a
year, all of which he spent as fast as he earned it ? He read
written lessons in this line of training many years ago. Acting
on this very suggestion of mental activity, he bought some-
where at a second-hand bookstore two old works, one on
landscape gardening, and the other on greenhouse work. He
knew nothing about flowers. Botany had been included in
his early schooling, but had not helped him in any way, and
he was satisfied that he could not derive any benefit from it
now. But the practical side of floriculture appealed to him
more by chance than by design on his part. He made him-
self familiar with the theory of greenhouse management and
of landscape gardening. At the start, and often during the
three years that he dabbled in this apparently useless mental
labour, his wife would say to him :
" What on earth are you
doing with such things as raising flowers in your mind and
laying out grounds on paper ? It is a waste of time, but it
keeps you out of mischief, and cannot do any harm. But it
cannot do any good."
A wife is disloyal to her home if she discourages her husband
in any activity of the mind or body that is useful, even if
there seems to be no practical opportunity for its employment.
All that imparts knowledge is useful. A new level is sooner
or later created.
In this man's life there came the fixed desire to visit green-
houses, and see for himself how they did things. Sundays
found him doing this pleasant task, and here his wife took
joint pleasure, for all women who have normal hearts love
flowers and the beauties of nature. He had a month's holiday
every summer, and these weeks he spent in practising some
of the rules he had studied in the books. Then he got
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 221
more works, and they were up to date. From then he
became scholarly in floriculture, and could talk with
experts.
Still we ask what special design impelled him to do these
things ?
All at once came a cataclysm in the government omces.
Hundreds of clerks were discharged, and he was among those
whose time had come. Then there was waning and gnashing
of teeth. FamiHes who had spent all the money they earned
as fast as it came in were thrown out into the cold world,
and it is a fact that not one man in fifty could obtain lucra-
tive employment. This man, himself being more than fifty
years of age, knew nothing but government work, which means
that he was useless in every line of business and trade. He
had no profession, was too old to start learning something
new, and altogether was helpless. But his fellow-clerks were
in still worse plight. They averaged more than sixty years
of age, and had no show to secure work in anything, not even
as office boys at fifteen shillings a week. Employers want new
blood, not old.
Our friend had been taking a floral magazine for some years,
and now he noticed advertisements for gardeners who could
give proof of being strictly temperate and of good habits in
every way. He replied, and moved into the country close to
a great city. His house rent was included in his wages, and
this saved him fifty pounds a year, which was a large item.
The remuneration of twelve pounds a month was one hundred
and forty-four pounds a year, or nearly one hundred and
fifty pounds less than his salary as a government clerk. But
he received perquisites that helped him, and there were fewer
expenses, so that he saved money for the first time in his life
He really had success as a gardener, and his employer liked
him hugely, as he said he was the first gardener who did not
get drunk. Then he grew more and more expert in raising
flowers, and had another advantage over the ordinary gardeners
—he was up to date. Men who have worked at this profession
for ten or twenty years have not done any recent reading, and,
as a rule, are too ignorant to read much in any event. Here
was a scholarly gardener, a kind that is needed to-day, and
that cannot be found. He was a temperate gardener, a kind
222 SEX MAGNETISM
that is hard to find in this era ; for gardeners that are good
are so few in numbers that they are independent, and break
all rules they wish to break.
In the second year this man received wages of two hundred
pounds, and saved seventy pounds of them. He had learned
a lesson. Yet, in the city working for the government at the
same salary, his expenses ate up all his income.
The next salary was two hundred and fifty pounds a year,
and later on he got as high as five hundred pounds a year.
There are head gardeners to-day who receive eight hundred
pounds annual salaries. What clerk in the employ of the
government is paid that much ?
Gardeners are very scarce, and of every hundred there is
not more than one who is really learned in his work, while
some of the good ones are drunkards. The gardeners who are
worth having around are provided with rent free, and per-
quisites that reduce the cost of living to about twenty per cent
of their salaries, the other eighty per cent being clear gain.
There is no limit to the rise that is possible in salary, as we
know of gardeners who receive eight hundred pounds a year,
and landscape gardeners who have been paid as high as fifteen
hundred pounds a year. Any person desirous of knowing
something of the high salaries paid to landscape gardeners
can find out by writing to some large estate.
One strong fact in gardening is that a man is never too old
for his profession. It is the oldest profession in the world,
as Adam himself was the first gardener. A man wears out
in the ministry and in the legal profession. In surgery he
is old at fifty, and in medicine he is old at sixty. In the
business world, if he has been brought up in it, he may be good
until he is seventy or more ; but woe to the man who loses
his position of employment at any time after he is forty or
fifty. No other employer wants him. But the expert gardener
goes on for ever, or until he dies. We have seen them lively
and skilled at eighty-five. If he loses his place he can get
another.
This kind of work tends to prolong life.
It is filled with beauty, and beautiful experiences.
The fault with most gardeners, outside of their drinking
habits, is an unwillingness to keep abreast of the times ;
so
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 223
there is a double chance to succeed by keeping sober and
mentally active.
Any man who does not know what he is going to do when
he gets too old to work at his profession or trade, or who fears
he may lose his position of employment in case his employer
should die or fail, will do nothing better than to equip him-
self as a gardener, fitted for greenhouse work and outdoor
gardening, and all other branches of land culture, including
landscape effects, orchards and truck-raising. If he should
have some money saved up, he will not require much land to
enable him to carry on a place of his own, and very little ex-
penditure will keep him alive and his family supported on what
he may be able to raise if he does not care to work for another.
All the young men who can get away from the farms are
going to the cities. There they suffer in poverty, and in time
many of them are on the dole. In the meantime the farms
and gardens, not having enough men and boys to conduct
them, are compelled to go without attention. The result is
that there are more people all the time in the cities, and fewer
all the time raising food for them ;
and the cry is made that
the cost of living is going up. It will continue to go up, obey-
ing the most common of all natural laws. Ten years from now
there will not be half as many people on the farms as now,
and, of course, the farms will not produce half the foods needed
for the cities. Ten years from now there will be twice as many
people in the cities as now, and not half as many in the country
to feed them. Food prices will rise, rise, rise, and the public
will not even guess the cause. Poverty in the cities will
increase, and charity will do its part toward furthering this
abnormal and unhealthy national condition.
Nature, in her laws, before man came to be civilized, took
things in her own hands, and made those suffer who were
responsible for this defiance of her plans. She did not stop
at charity, but cut off the cities' excess by sheer famine and
pestilence. To-day charity fights the famine and quarantines
the pestilence. But the next generation, being asked to pay
four times more for food than it is able to earn, will hear
the voice of nature speaking in tones that even charity cannot
avoid. You cannot feed seventy millions of people with the
food that is intended for only ten millions.
224 SEX MAGNETISM
But the wise man and the wise woman will build well and
plan deeply.
The fortunates who own land in the country, who dwell
there, who are versed in the latest and greatest of all laws
of culture, who can raise what they need to eat, and who can
advise those that have the money to pay for their knowledge
and help, will hold the whip-hand when food prices soar beyond
the reach of the great middle classes, as they already have
beyond the reach of poverty.
Here is the greatest profession of the next two hundred
years ;
and, if people only were awake to the fact, it is the
greatest profession at this very minute. It affords mental
opportunity and physical activity for those who seek employ-
ment for their faculties ;
but, more than this, it is the avenue
for safety when disaster comes. When the waves of poverty
and panic sweep the land, foUowing the universal defiance
of the laws of nature, those men and women who are prepared
to look after themselves will be those alone who can get their
living from the soil. Everything that is eaten, everything
that is worn, everything that enters in the house or into its
construction, is furnished by nature from the soil, and the
products of the soil ; and let him who runs read.
What is the use of wasting time in perusing newspapers or
indulging in other forms of gossip and frothy mental effort, or
in loafing about the house or down town in the evenings, when
there are so many useful ways of employing mind and body ?
If, among those men and women who are wretchedly poor,
there had ever been the disposition to improve a few minutes
each day, a different story would now be told ;
for there is
not an individual who has given honest attention to those
little golden fragments of time who is poor to-day.
There are countless things that may be studied and
practised that will keep the body and mind busy. Many of
them combine both sets of faculties, for there are some things
that require the union of thought and muscle. These are
sometimes best, and then the mental faculties need special
and separate activity, as in the study of great principles.
The desire to be well opens up a fruitful field of investiga-
tion, and the public needs this line of instruction, perhaps,
more than any other.
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 225
The wish to be prepared for a change of employment and
of work should keep the active mind busy in fitting itself
for such a contingency, even if it shall never arise. No one
can tell what the morrow may bring forth. He who is ready
for the unexpected is the most capable in life's battle.
This is a genius.
The mind that has been enriched by the studies of language
and other courses and branches suggested in this book, will
carry the body up to a higher plane than the mind that is
cultivated in the plainer things only. Then the absorption of
knowledge of health, or the arts, of philosophy and the better
ethics, will be sure to bear its fruit. You cannot build a temple
that will outrank all the hovels surrounding it without inviting
a better tenant. That mysterious power called improvement
will draw you up to its level.
But there are endless ways in which the mind can make
itself active. No one book can cover all the ground in such
a field.
The most important fact is the generating of magnetism
by any kind of activity that is conserved and not wasted.
Keep the body active, and conserve the muscular effort, if
you wish to store away a vast fund of muscular magnetism.
Keep the mind active and conserve the mental effort, if you
wish to store away a vast fund of mental magnetism.
These are the laws that prove themselves day by day in
the lives of men and women who are getting on in the world.
The wife should engage in both kinds of activity. It is
true that she has many duties in her home, but she does more
useless work than need be, and does not know how to conserve
her muscular strength. She does not overtax her mind
for, if she did, there would be better food selection and better
cooking in her house. She simply knows the way her mother
has been cooking for years, and knows too little of that or any
other method, and is content to learn nothing more. In fact
she would be offended if you were to tell her that she did not
know how to cook potatoes, or any vegetable on the list ; nor
could she make bread, cook rice, or eggs, or make soup as it
ought to be made, or roast meats, or do the simplest things
in the right way. Sure, she knows how her mother did these
things, but she has yet to learn the right way of doing them.
15
226 SEX MAGNETISM
To prove to you that she has not been giving her brain enough
to do, tell her these facts, and see how angry she will be, and
how quickly she drops you from her visiting list ;
for, if she
really knows, she will be glad you challenged her ability, and
it will be a pleasure to her to show you.
All that man may busy his mind with, the wife may use
for the same purpose.
There are hours in every twenty-four, if the household is
conducted in an intelligent manner, that husband and wife
can take advantage of, for these forms of activity of body and
mind. You cannot extract something from nothing, and get
anything ; and you certainly cannot subtract nothing from
nothing, and find a remainder. Success is addition, not sub-
traction. You must take what you are, and add something to
it if you wish to be more than what you are. No healthy minds
or normal hearts are content to be what they are. If nature
adopted such a doctrine we would not be here, you and others ;
for there would still be only shellfish, and possibly not even
they would have been reached in the march of progress. Nature
has done remarkably well to take mud and separate it into
air and earth, sea and land, and to bring the animal kingdom
up out of the mud of the beach, and man out of the lower
forms of life. She has done remarkably well to take the kind
of people that dwelt on the sands of Asia, and out of those
naked savages raise up the civilization of the twentieth century.
She is progressive, because she employs the rules of addition,
adding something to something, and getting something more.
This is her work.
Progress is addition.
If you are not in harmony with nature you will be weak,
unhappy, unprogressive and without goal or future. If you
wish to have all the forces of nature helping you on like the
great army of a nation fighting to place you on a throne,
determine to learn the rule of progress. Take what you are,
and add something to that. The result will never be failure.
Never mind what you add. Add something. Anything that
will make the mind richer in thought, and the body more
useful in its work, or healthier in its fife. The trouble is that
most men and women spend all their time, if they have any
interest at all in progress, in hunting for what they will add
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 227
to their minds and their usefulness ; like the modern woman
when shopping. She is weighted down with the fear that some
store a mile away may have a bargain that is a penny better
than any of the ten stores she has visited, and so she keeps
hunting for something better, until she decides that it is too
late in the day to get anything, and the next bargain day is
reserved for the next hunt. The spirit of the olden times, of
the hare and the hounds, is yet alive in this generation.
But if you will start with anything that is useful, and stick
to it, you will add something to what you are, either mentally
or physically.
Make a beginning.
Husband and wife can find these waiting hours, and can
put them into employment at home. At first let the physical
activity take possession of you. Do some of the duties that
are dragging in the home. Then do some real work in making
the house more attractive. Do not be afraid of dirt, and
show what nature has done for you in your muscular depart-
ment. It is a pleasant sight to see husband and wife working
together. What the nation needs is to see more of them
working together, and in longer hours as well.
Do not be afraid of muscular work, or of mental activity
of the hard and taxing kind. Nature will bless you and take
care of you.
FIFTH RADIAL LAW
Sex Magnetism demands that the commonplaces be decreased.
This is so important a law that a full chapter will be devoted
to its consideration.
In summing up the present part of the work, let the reader
remember that no person is magnetic, either naturally or by
training, unless he is constantly active, both in mind and body.
To the non-magnetic, languid person this may seem an
overdrawn statement ; but the facts are abundant that prove
the correctness of the assertion. A magnetic person succeeds
in proportion as he applies to his power the intelligence taught
in the course, Mental Magnetism, and the interpretation of
temperament taught in the other course, Advanced Magnetism.
These are large, long and extensive schooling systems of
228 SEX MAGNETISM
training, but they are necessary to the attainment of the
highest success in life.
But laying aside the ambition to mount high, and being
content to reap a fair reward, this work as it stands alone
will win much, and prove an abiding friend all through the
years that are to come, if its instruction is given careful
attention.
THIRD TESTS OF TEMPERAMENTAL UNFITNESS
Referring to pages 201, 202, 203 and 204 of this chapter
it will be seen that all persons possess certain prevailing
emotions. Out of a list of nearly four score of these moods, of
which some are bright and helpful, while others are dark and
repugnant, a certain number will be found coming into
prominence by habit or impulse in every person.
A man who is thinking of asking a woman to become his
wife should ascertain what emotions prevail in her character ;
and with what readiness they spring into activity. This is not
difficult.
A woman who is thinking of accepting an offer of marriage
should take steps to ascertain what emotions prevail in the
character of the man who seeks her ; and what causes instigate
their activity.
Let us take up a few of the emotions on the better side,
such as respect, affection, generosity, serenity as in a peaceful
disposition, mercy, sympathy, sacrifice, trust, hope, optimism,
dignity, courage, reverence and the like ;
and some of the
darker emotions such as worry, vexation, petulance, indiffer-
ence, flippancy, immoderation, recklessness, melancholy, fear,
hate, cruelty, revengefulness, arrogance, jealousy, envy, super-
stition, flattery, deceit, selfishness, craftiness and the like.
These are typical of some character.
Assuming that you possess no other work but this on the
subject of magnetism, you ought to have enough keenness of
judgment to learn in a few months the prevailing emotions
and moods of your would-be mate. But if you are unable
to read human nature, then the study of Mental Magnetism,
and of emotional powers which are taught in Advanced
Magnetism will give you the ability to take account of stock at
FIVE MAGNETIC LAWS 229
once of your own moods and emotions and those of the other
party.
The rest is easy. If there are the better or brighter moods
prevailing in both of you, all is well ; and if any of them are
alike, the harmony is perfect to that extent. If, on the other
hand, there are dark moods that are alike in both of you,
never think of marrying. All the magnetism in the world
will not prevent you living lives of quarrels and unlimited
hatred of each other ;
except when such feelings are held in
abeyance by most careful watching under the power of Sex
Magnetism.
Yet it is true that where one or two only of the dark moods
prevail, a cure is possible by ordinary magnetism. But where
the general moods are of the darker side, it is better not to
invite wedlock or encourage it.
COMMONPLACES
OF the five laws of radial influence, the last and greatest
is that which says that it is necessary to decrease the
commonplaces, in order to build up the power of Sex Magnetism.
By using the term decrease, it may be seen that the common-
place cannot be wholly got rid of. A commonplace is some-
thing ordinary. The word means various things in limited
usage, but the public understands a thing to be commonplace
when it is trivial, ordinary or common.
In its full scope it includes a wide range of matters, and
these are all brought under the definition as employed here.
The word vulgar originally meant nothing more than common ;
but the latter takes in what is vulgar and what is plain, ordi-
nary and trivial, showing some shading in its ideas and uses.
The distinction should be kept in mind.
The marriage of to-day in civilization is the dumping
ground of all the commonplaces. In some other lands this is
not so. At one time in civilization it was not as much the
case as it is at the present day. When a young lady sees her
father and her brothers in the freedom of home life, and is
afterwards the object of attentions from a well-dressed and
careful-mannered young man, the change is so refreshing that
wedlock is an allurement. It is a fact that every young man
appears at his best when he is courting his sweetheart. She
likewise appears at her best during that one period of life.
Why, after the ceremony, she should be compelled to receive
commonplaces far beneath those to which she has been sub-
jected at her own home with her brothers and father is hard
to understand.
It is argued that the relations of marriage are closer and
necessarily more familiar than those in the home with her
father and brothers ;
but, admitting that fact, all other
relations should not be lower, or even as low, when there is
no reason for such a condition of things. The hope of every
230
COMMONPLACES 231
girl is that one day she will be elevated to a higher plane of
existence, not to one farther down in the scale.
She builds her castles in the air, and dreams of a happy
future, of pretty surroundings and a half-fairyland realm, in
which she is to dwell when her cavalier comes to take her
hence. She pictures him in her mind as gentleman in dress,
in manners, in speech, and in his treatment of her. She believes
that he is to court her after marriage as well as before, and
that he wiU treat her as a little queen who is entitled to homage
and devotion.
It is refreshing to-day to note the air of expectancy m
the mind of a girl who wiU confide her hopes in her friend.
She speaks of her lover as so nice, so gallant, so refined and such
a gentleman. To what degree or extent does he surpass her
own brother ? Does not some other girl think that brother
just as much of a cavalier ?
Sex Magnetism requires the decreasing of all common-
places that may be lessened, so that as much as possible of
the hopes of both parties may be realized.
The commonplaces are numerous, and a few of them will
be discussed herein for the purpose of lighting the way to
all others that may arise in married life.
Speech.—When a young man is first introduced to a young
lady of whom he has then and there a high opinion, he is
very careful how he addresses her. His words are carefully
weighed and delivered. She is likewise very cautious not to
leave in his mind the impression that she is flip, silly, shallow
or ignorant. If she knows little of the refining elements in
conversation, she will not long deceive him, unless both are
of the same calibre.
Speech consists in matter and manner. Matter is what is
said, and manner is how it is said. The material of the thought
that is embodied in the talk will soon take the level of the
intelligence of the mind behind it. You can for a few minutes
hold back the awful secret that you have only commonplace
material at hand for delivery. If the other party is of the same
grade, it may or may not be well for you. Let us assume for
a moment that you are a man, and that you are now in the
presence of a woman who is making an impression on you,
and you are desirous of making an impression on her. If
232 SEX MAGNETISM
you and she are of the same mental calibre, she may or may
not mind that ;
although it is true that all women who are
worth winning desire some mental force greater than their
own, or, at least, greater than they are led to think is ordinary.
A girl is always hoping that some other girl's brother is a much
nicer man than her own brother. Most boys and girls that
grow up in the same neighbourhood, and see each other from
childhood up to the years of marriageable age, lose the desire
to wed among each other, on the ground that they know too
much about their playmates, and have seen them in all their
commonplace ways. The glamour is not there. Romance is
missing. They have been wishing for something better than
they have known.
If, therefore, some other man can talk of better subjects
and give better material in thought to the same woman,
although she is no stronger in material than you are, she
will much prefer the better man. " I was so much entertained
with what he said " is the frequent remark of a woman after
her first meeting with a man. " He talked on such interesting
subjects, and his thoughts were so grand " is one of the com-
ments made by the woman.
The man who speaks of his dog, of his tailor, of his chums,
of his game of billiards, of his tramp in the country and
similar themes, would not impress even the small mind of
a woman ; while the same female would be charmed with
another man who spoke of the flowers he had picked in the
woods, of the fine lecture he heard the other evening, of the
pictures he had seen, and other matters of the same style.
This would be about the limit of the woman referred to. She
would be outclassed at that, yet would prefer the second man
to the first, because the something above the ordinary is allur-
ing and winning.
The second man with the superior themes might come in
competition with a third man in calling upon a woman of a
higher mental grade than the one of whom we have just been
speaking. She would be, ordinarily, pleased with his account
of his experiences, but the third man might speak eloquently
of matters that would include her ambitions, if she had any ;
or her fancy and admiration might be aroused by less of the
speaker's affairs than of others who towered above him and
COMMONPLACES 233
what he had known. The old story told to Pauline is a never-
failing air-castle ; unreal as it is in the material world, it is
full of that fascination that the female mind feeds on. It
may be told in a thousand variations and given a thousand
different localities and change of details to suit, yet the man
who can tell something like it, and be believed in at the same
time, could win a princess out of her kingdom, and take her
to his humble cottage for life, or until the charm had been
fractured.
Here is what Claude Melnotte said to Pauline :
" A palace lifting to eternal summer its marble walls, from
out the glossy bower of coolest foliage musical with birds,
whose songs should syllable thy name ! At noon we'd sit
beneath the arching vines and wonder why Earth could be
unhappy, while the Heavens still left us youth and love !
We'd have no friends that were not lovers ; no ambitions save
to excel them all in love. We'd read no books that were not
tales of love—that we might smile to think how poorly elo-
quence of words translates the poetry of hearts like ours ! and
when night came, amidst the breathless Heavens, we'd guess
what star should be our home when love becomes immortal ;
while the profound light stole through the mists of alabaster
lamps ; and every air was heavy with the sighs of orange
groves and music from sweet lutes, and murmur of low foun-
tains that gush forth in the midst of roses !
"
It is in this spirit, if not in its promises, that the heart is
quickened. Magnetism is necessary to conceive such thoughts,
and a magnetic manner of delivery is still more essential. The
body of fact may be unreal, but the soul of desire for such
a life is there in every normal woman. We live in our emotions,
and see with them. To know that a man has in his nature
the wish for something above the routine drudgery of daily
existence is pleasing to a girl. It may never be realized, but
she does not think of that, and she has her dream and its enjoy-
ment while it lasts.
But some of this spirit can be made to last for ever.
Most of it is beyond human possibility as a basis of fact,
yet the life that is suggested is worth hoping for.
In what is said, and how it is said, is many a heart touched
and won. The speech may never in real life be as gorgeous as
234 SEX MAGNETISM
that made by Melnotte, but there is no reason why it should
drop at any time down to the vocabulary of the street, the
shop or the kitchen. It is, perhaps, better to have something
within reach of possibility of realization as the material in
what is said ; and that something would only embody an
ambition yet to be fulfilled.
Anything that is above the common themes, and that has
the ring of sincerity and of genuineness, will help brighten
the hopes of the woman. The material is important, and the
manner of speech is also to be elevated.
There is no reason why marriage should be the dumping
ground of all the cheap phrases and terms that dwell in the
human mind. Some of them are low and common enough for
the father and brothers of a refined girl ; but there are others,
always called Anglo-Saxon roots and original terms, that are
a little too vulgar for the brothers and father to use in the
presence of the girl who has got halfway through her teens,
that the husband feels at liberty to thrust into her hearing
because she is his wife.
We do not propose to besmirch this book with the usual
number of them, but half a dozen will suffice as well as five
hundred. Take the case of a young man of refined instincts
who had met a very beautiful and apparently cultured young
woman in a conservatory of a friend, amid flowers whose
fragrance still lingered in his memory as he made a visit one
evening to her home. She herself had an aroma of scented
powder on her that gave him hope of finding her all he had
anticipated, although his mind had not had a doubt or a
thought in that direction until he caught a word from the
adjoining room coming from the lips of a brother. He was
not sure he heard correctly and the matter slipped his atten-
tion. But later on, when the beautiful young woman stepped
back to the next room to speak to her brother, the visitor
heard her say :
" It stinks ; throw it in the swill." When
she returned to the parlour the young man studied in vain to
find the beauty in her face that he had noted before. Instead
he saw her as she was. The thin veiling of skin could not
hide the woman that would be developed in the next few
years, and, as he never called again, he did not meet her for
a long time, but did, in fact, know her by sight when she had
COMMONPLACES 235
married six years later. Her husband was a different type
from himself, and she was then what was behind her face as
a maiden—coarse and all commonplace.
We live in our emotions and see with them ;
and they are
the truth.
In such a word as " stink " there is nothing bad or wrong ;
but it is commonplace. There are other words that will convey
the meaning better and shade it to a nicety. On moral grounds
it can be defended, and perhaps on ethical grounds, but not
in Sex Magnetism. A man who will tell his wife that she
stinks will not long have her regard, unless both are below the
grade of individuals who can be benefited by this study. A
woman who tells her husband that he stinks is of the same
degree of elegance as the word she uses. All words are reflec-
tions of the mind itself.
Here is an illustration of the fact that both the material and
the manner are commonplace. The kinds of words used to
convey the matter make the manner. But the material in the
thought is commonplace. If husband or wife may be found
guilty of the allegation, it is the subject of the third chapter
in this book, not of this. The cause of the charge needs remedy-
ing ; and this may be done in the first place by calling attention
to the third chapter. If then the guilty party does not reform,
have that part of the book re-read. It will in time remove the
odour.
If, however, there is anything wrong that gives rise to it,
let some other material be employed. Do not say " s^ink,"
and do not think " stink." Have some other shading of the
meaning in your mind. Try to be elegant in the formulation
of ideas, and your language will accordingly be elegant. If
you reverse this and think more than you say, or worse than
you speak, there will come times when the tongue will slip up,
as the saying goes, and your mind will leak through. Then
a new level will be found, and it will not be a higher one.
You cannot long think in one channel and talk in another,
if you are married. The need is to think above the common-
places. In the days of courtship both parties try to appear
at their best ;
they have their better clothes on, their better
manners on, and their better thoughts in the ascendency. If
courtship could be prolonged for years, and the lovers see
236 SEX MAGNETISM
each other often, they would serve as foils to elevate each
other to that higher ground that they make appear in their
meetings.
Pretences develop habits in time.
The word " swill " is not elegant, nor is the thought. The
modern substitute of garbage is better as a word, but the
material is not elegant. The beautiful woman who entertains
her lover with an account of her garbage system, her dusbin
and its contents, and a similar trend of thought, is at a far
distance from the subject that he would be most pleased to
hear discussed, although she may be pouring out her mind to
him. Hunt as you may for synonyms for garbage, and clothe
them in the best garb they can wear, you are still wrong in
material. One woman who was a widow, and who had set her
cap for a man of some refinement, had been plunged into a fit
of anger by the manner in which the city collectors failed to
carry away three times a week the garbage from her yard. She
told her suitor of the fine dusbins she had purchased, and of the
tight-fitting covers which concealed the odour, and then to have
the dusbins remain uncollected for three days at a time was more
than her dainty heart and nostrils could endure. The man was
so impressed with her wrongs and suffering that he thought he
could smell garbage in the very room where they sat, so great
was his sympathy for her misfortune. When she shook hands
with him in saying good evening later on, he thought he had
carried off the smell of garbage on his fingers. At home he
took out of his desk her letters, and he thought they, too, had
the odour of garbage underneath the sachet perfume ;
so he tore
them up and threw them out. He soon came to regard her as
the garbage widow, and now after years of marriage with another
he thinks occasionally of all the smells he has escaped
We smell with our emotions more strongly than with our
noses.
Odours are impressions in the brain, and the finest perfumes
are interpretations of the gray cells, whether they are stimu-
lated by the nerves of the nose or of the emotions. In such
courses as Advanced Magnetism and Universal Magnetism,
which are included in this Club, there are abundant methods
for cultivating the brain impressions of all the senses. Let an
odour come to the nose, and the nerves there carry it to the
COMMONPLACES 237
brain, where it is interpreted. Let an emotion become magnetic,
and the same brain centres will be impressed in the same way.
No sense is interpreted in the sense itself. A nose without a
brain could not create or convey an odour or perfume. An
ear without a brain could not carry a sound. An eye without
a brain could not transmit sight. It aU depends on the final
interpretation within the brain, where there is no presence of
the senses, but merely their reports from outward impressions.
What wonder, then, that such high studies as Advanced
Magnetism and Universal Magnetism should bring the inter-
pretations into life without the aid of any senses, or through
the sixth sense, which includes all five and intensifies them ?
There are cases where the smell of flowers has been passed
all around a room, and, in fact, aU through the house, by the
magnetism of a person who has brought them into his or her
own mind. A magnetic man has been able by thinking of any
flower to transmit the fragrance of it to a woman. This ex-
periment has been performed thousands of times, and is within
the power of any individual of high magnetic quality, such as
is taught in the two higher works just referred to. The
experiments have gone so far as to include the varieties of
flowers such as English Beauty roses, Enchantress carnations
and numerous other kinds. A man who had, on various
occasions, brought six different varieties of roses to his sweet-
heart, all of which she loved equally well, told her one evening
that he had brought into the adjoining room a very large
bouquet of one particular kind, of which she was very fond.
These were Paul Neyrons, which she had not seen for months,
and which she supposed were out of season. He did not tell her
their names, but made it a magnetic creation according to the
higher laws of this power. She had not thought of this variety,
but knew it quite well from previous familiarity with it,
although he had never brought her any of the kind. Now, to
deceive her in words, while he fastened the magnetic creation
in her mind, he declared that the roses were the Perle de Jar-
dins. She at once exclaimed :
" You will pardon me for saying
that you have made a mistake. The roses that I smell are Paul
Neyrons, but they are out of season now. Where did you get
them ?
"
The experiment was most perfect.
238 SEX MAGNETISM
When a man brings English Beauty roses to his sweet-
heart, he creates in her mind an exalted idea of himself and
of the friendship that has begun between them. Thus flowers
serve to refine and to elevate the mind and heart. Courtship
in many homes proceeds amid flowers of the most delicious
perfume, and the foliage is an aid to the mind through the
sense of sight. It takes years for a man to rid himself wholly
from these finer impressions, or for the woman to make her-
self believe that the man is commonplace, and therefore, mere
clay. The city professor who found a sweet maiden of sixteen,
with fair, smooth, velvety complexion and large, shining blue
eyes gathering marigolds by the roadside, learned to love
the smell of the rank flower because he always associated it
with the fair beauty of the girl he had met. His heart turned
over several times in his conversation with her, and the seem-
ingly dainty and rich nature she owned was most convinc-
ing ; but she slipped out of his life as suddenly as she came
in, and only the odour of the marigolds abided. From that
time ever after he loved the flowers, and had them on his desk
as often as he could get them.
People live in their emotions.
The rule is two-sided, as all rules ought to be. The first
impression of a woman's face or smile or voice, if it could stop
there, would set all men on edge under certain circumstances.
Some men have learned to love the most unlovable things
because of the first impressions that have never been erased.
Then they are prone to hate what they admired. But the
unlovable things are never commonplace. They may be incon-
gruities or faults of the unusual sort ; while a commonplace
would destroy the whole romance at one fell blow. A lisp
is not of the latter class. If there is a pretty face behind or
around the lisp, and the man faUs in love or is impressed deeply,
he will be inclined to lean tenderly towards all girls that lisp.
Let once the glamour of the first impression be broken, as
by a slang term coming through the lisp, and he will despise
all girls who lisp, if he has a refined nature.
It is not the bunch of beautiful roses that most pleases the
maiden who sits in their midst as attractive as they. It is
the contrast with the commonplaces with which her life is
filled, and which she hopes to mount above. It is not the sight
COMMONPLACES 239
of flowers and their perfume, nor the taste of the delicately-
boxed and adorned chocolates, nor the ribbons on them that
most please. Her brother Jack has given her a dirty sweet
from his jacket pocket, from which she has extricated the debris
in which they have fallen ; and these are commonplace, to
which she must return when the lover and the English Beauty
roses and the five shillings a pound chocolates in violet ribbons
have melted into the dishevelled locks of the grumpy husband
who tosses his wife a handful of tobacco-perfumed, cheap sweets
a few months after the marriage.
The most philosophical girl we have ever met was sixteen
at the time we first knew her. She was beautiful, and her
parents were of the middle classes, with a home that had been
made attractive by the care and interest of both husband and
wife. She was refined and well-educated for a maiden of
her age. She took part in the care and beautifying of the
home, and never failed to be a companion to her mother, both
in the house and when she went out. Thus she escaped the
name of flirt. Owing to her beauty and special good name
and finer reputation than most girls enjoyed because of her
home habits, she had admirers among all the desirable men ;
and all others failed utterly to obtain permission to call. From
the time she was sixteen until she was thirty years of age she
met at her home, in the presence of her parents, many gentle-
men, some of them of wealth, who vied with each other to
make themselves most attractive to her. They dressed at their
best, talked their best, and acted as well as gentlemen know
how when there is a worthy and desirable girl at stake.
She thus unconsciously became a great influence for the
good of these men. Some of them married other girls, and
ceased to pay honours to her ; some came once a month, others
once in two weeks, but there were no regular visits from any
of them in all those years. She joined with other young ladies
in giving functions at which the men were invited, and these
occasions were long remembered for their refining effect on
both sexes.
In her home she was the recipient of many beautiful and
most costly flowers from the men of wealth ; but she prized
even more the native bouquet which an ambitious young lawyer
was wont to go out into the fields and pick, because his
240 SEX MAGNETISM
means were limited. Without his knowing it, and without
her parents having any suspicion of the fact, she would
take her gift to her room, and there study it in her quiet
moments.
In those fourteen or fifteen years she lived above the com-
monplaces. The confectionery, the expensive fruits and the
glorious flowers, aided by the better material of conversa-
tion and the influence of music, which she loved, surrounded
by attractions in her home life, and enhanced by the elevated
atmosphere in which she and her friends seemed to dwell,
made her a woman of exceptional richness of character and
elegance, free from artifice or pretence. She flirted with no
man, and led none to believe that she cared for him.
At length she married the poor lawyer, who has since be-
come a power in his community. Her girl friends have not
made happy marriages, as there are not many such unions in
a hundred. But any young woman who is of a philosophical
turn of mind may make for herself a life above the common-
places.
Learn to wait.
Take years in which to learn to wait, and years more in
waiting.
In those years keep all men at a distance. Make them give
you all they know, and they can learn, of the attentions that
are above the commonplaces.
That higher realm is the domain of Sex Magnetism. It is
not a dream, for it has been in the hopes of women for centuries,
and in the hearts of noble men even longer. It has been
practised more million times in courtship than you can count
all day long, making your figures as fast as you please. It
is the one first effort of the two sexes to make impressions
on each other. It is lost when the maiden is won or the man
is caught, and then it evaporates little by little until the honey-
moon is over. Being founded on thin air instead of solid
magnetic habits, it does not linger any longer than its useful-
ness in deceiving the opposite sex is necessary.
We have shown the effect beautiful roses, sweet music and
fine language have on girls, and the kindred effect their dainty
words and ways have on men. Both learn to expect better
influences than marriage brings. Now, the office of Sex Mag-
COMMONPLACES 241
netism is to maintain the better condition that is above the
commonplaces.
Two of the plain words have been cited to show what is
meant by vulgar terms. There are others, many of them,
and they need not be listed here ; but we would advise every
man and woman to make a private statement of them for refer-
ence and memorizing. Affectation, on the other hand, should
be carefully avoided. Some women assume a prudish nature
that have none of it, in fact, in their make-up. They will
not say leg, but prefer limb, during the first stage of courtship ;
and after marriage they toss out Anglo-Saxon words in pro-
fusion. The word " nasty " and the word " disgust " are
vulgar, and are not often used, except when some mood is to
be described by a writer. In the refinements of marriage they
should not be heard. Anything that is " nasty " is not good
material for the brain ; and anything that is " disgusting " is
just as vulgar matter. The word " rot " is never employed
except by a mind that carries sewerage, and sewerage is not
as nice as garbage. It is several degrees more vulgar. Yet
to-day the sweetest lips speak of things and of acts, and of
occurrences, and events, and efforts, endeavours, remarks, and
almost everything else as "rotten," and fair women of the
theatrical profession, as well as leading men, Romeos, Juliets,
Hamlets, Paulines, Claude Melnottes, Portias, and the whole
tribe from the stars down to the star-dust and planet-dust, have
but one adjective with which to express their lack of apprecia-
tion of anything ; and it is " tommyrot."
The reason for this habit that is lower than garbage is that
the mind of the actor or actress is a copying mind, as far as
anything beautiful and noble is contained in it. The speech
of Claude Melnotte is at the very height of elegance and rich-
ness of thought, and the man who can parrot it effectively may
live for the moment in the grandest moods of a mind of which
he really knows nothing. He is a parrot, and no more. In
his private room, and on the street, and behind the scenes, he
comes down to his natural level, given him by nature, and his
one word is
" tommyrot." That is his garbage mind.
Very few, indeed, are the actors who do not daily use the
word " rot " a hundred times ; and the word " tommyrot " as
the comparative degree of rot. Very few, indeed, are the
242 SEX MAGNETISM
actresses who do not daily do the same thing. It is their
nature.
In cheap newspapers there are editorials in which this same
word occurs. The reporters, as a rule, are made up of the
mental slums of life ; and they have " rot " on their tongues'
end all day long, and ejaculate it in their sleep. In every city
men who have suddenly become millionaires, and who give big
dinners to the monkeys of society, use and hear the word " rot
"
a hundred times during the dinner ; and in the smoking-room
afterwards, and in the drawing-room also, this word is passed
from one to another by the shuttlecock minds of the hosts
and guests.
The garbage is " rot."
The contents of the cesspool are " rot."
The water-closet contains " rot."
The foul sewer carries " rot."
And, by the law of addition, the human mind that, when
opened to permit an idea to escape, sends forth " rot " as a
word, is proving its contents to be garbage, cesspool, water-
closet, and sewer.
The word originated in the theatrical profession ; and no
wonder that marriages there are loose beyond all description.
What well-known actor to-day is living with his wife ? What
well-known actress to-day is living with her husband ? The
whole nauseating history is one long line of mental and moral
unfitness that may be summed up in the words that profession
creates as its medium of outpouring its thoughts.
If you seek to find marriage, you must look for it in other
directions, and if it is worth while at all it is worth making
reasonably refined. The smartness that emits cheap and slangy
terms is only an apology for ability. The rule is a natural
one ; that where the mind is weak in resources its words will
be correspondingly vapid and smart. This is the balance of
energy.
On the same principle the habit of cursing is evidence of
a cheap and weak mind. It shows irritation and inability
to control it ;
for, following along the same line, the more
irritated the mind is the more freely it will employ oaths and
profanity. The climax of irritation is insanity. This fact
is well known to every physician and expert in nervous dis-
COMMONPLACES 243
orders. Many a doctor has said to a patient :
" If you allow
your irritability to get the better of you, the result is sure
to be insanity." Partial irritability is partial insanity ;
and
aU forms of this erratic action of the nerves are steps toward
mental breakdown. The history of such cases is well known.
In this way we have absolute proof of the assertion that
the weaker the mind the greater is the disposition to swear,
become profane and use slang ; for slang is only a very
commonplace manner of swearing.
Many men before they are married refrain from profanity
in the presence of their mothers and sisters, and generally
keep from it when their fathers and brothers are present or
within hearing distance. But as soon as they are married and
the new has worn off they let loose and compel their wives
to submit to the profanity and nastiness that these cheap
feUows are too cowardly to use in their parents' homes. There
is no accounting for the beast and brute in man. What a
woman is to expect can only be surmised. For this reason it
is well that she take time to decide whether or not she will
get married, and that she ascertain what kind of a husband
she is to marry. His outside appearance will not furnish the
truth, for he makes himself appear better than he is, as that
is the office of courtship.
No man should ever use any word that is not refined enough
for the most elegant occasions. If a word is out of place in
church or in the presence of the highest magistrate, or before
a queen, it is out of place in the home. The woman who has
been led to expect a gentleman as a husband should not be
disappointed. There is much he cannot provide her with, and
there is such a let down from what she has been hoping for
in him when at his best that he ought not to add to her suffer-
ing. In time she will become hardened and settle down to the
dungeon feeling, where a palace was dreamed of.
If you are a married man, let these words come home to
you.
That wife may have settled down years ago to the crown
of commonplaces that you have thrust upon her. If so, say
nothing about it. Just make up your mind that you will
not attract her attention by turning over a new leaf ;
but make
yourself more refined in speech at the rate of one word a day.
244 SEX MAGNETISM
If she, too, has learned slang and cheap words, do not mention
it to her, for she will in time adopt your improvement. If
you have been saying coarse, unrefined, vulgar, or profane
words, omit one a day, and she will not see any direct change
in your style of addressing her and others, but she will in-
stinctively feel that there is a better atmosphere. It will
pay to do this.
Try it for a week.
Nothing pays better in marriage than the omission of all
commonplaces in speech. There is every grade of slang, from
the most imbecile to the upper forms ; but they indicate a
weak mind and a mud mind. If there is an opportunity to
learn in advance of marriage whether or not your sweetheart
has this fault, it is better to first try to cure it by setting a
good example ;
and, if that fails, look for another sweetheart
who is not addicted to the debasing habit. When wedlock is
stripped of all its better influences, there is no reason for the
union. It is much better that there be no marriage between
such minds and such bodies. The children of such people are
not needed in the nation, for there is too much of the erratic
mind at large at the present time. This is called by physicians
an age of insanity and irritability, or neurasthenia and un-
balanced temperament. Such an age naturally gives vent to
slang, coarse epithets and profanity. Most of the slang of
what is called good society is only a weak form of swearing.
The manliness is wanting in it, and the purity of woman's
heart, that which man hoped would be angelic in embryo at
least, is wholly lost. This is the reverse of what courtship
promised.
Actions.—There are many things that are done in marriage
that are commonplace, and that destroy the magnetism that
ought to exist between the two persons who are parties to the
union. Many of these acts cannot be mentioned here, but
may be surmised. There are others that can be referred to
briefly.
Habits of the toilet should be done decently. The woman
who combs her hair and leaves the combings lying around
on the table or dresser is in need of reform. A wealthy young
woman was very eager to marry a young man who also had
great wealth. The sister of the young man invited the young
COMMONPLACES 245
lady to her house, as they had been friends for some years.
This sister one morning, after the guest had gone down to
the conservatory, had her brother look into the bedroom and
witness the comb fuU of hair freshly taken from the visitor s
head and left on the dresser. The colour left no doubt as to
who owned the hair. The sister said to her brother :
Is
she the kind of woman you want for a wife ? " The effect
was complete. Not long after a coolness sprang up between
the brother and the young woman he might have married.
The hair may be treated in a most slovenly manner, or
may be handled with refinement, depending on the person.
Stray hairs on the dress or coat are untidy, and often repugnant
to those who see them. They indicate the character that
permits them to be there. Dandruff should be cleaned out ol
the scalp, as can be done by using any tar soap once a week,
but to see it fall like a snowstorm over the clothes is un-
pleasant. It is not so much what it seems to be as it is the
nature of the person that allows it to be carelessly manipulated.
Some wives permit dandruff to fall constantly into the food
the
^^°n0se is all organ that is fruitful in possibilities of
offence. It is commonplace enough at its best, for which
reason it should be given lessons in care and good manners.
There are many ways of blowing it that are coarse and un-
necessary ; but the habit of using the lavatory or washbowl
for a receptacle into which to blow the mucus from the nose
is too commonplace. What say you of the feelings of a woman
who supposed she was marrying a man gentlemanly as he
seemed to her when they first met, and who after the marriage
heard him discharging all the contents of both halves ot his
nose in the lavatory ? He blew and cleaned, blew and dug,
and blew and kept on cleaning and digging until the wile
was sick at the stomach. What could she do ? She thought
that this was an exceptional instance, and that it would never
occur again, so she took something to settle her stomach and
waited for further events. It turned out to be a daily atiair,
and she abandoned a man she despised, not for his moral short-
comings, for he was a consistent church member, but lor a
coarseness of habit that her previous life had never known.
Picking the nose is likewise an offence. If it must be done,
246 SEX MAGNETISM
let the curtain of secrecy be drawn over it, and not take it
into the drawing-room or other place where the operation must
be witnessed by the wife. Excavating the ears, picking at
pimples on the face, scratching around the middle zone of the
body, paring the corns, cutting the nails of any of the twenty
digits and similar episodes are all commonplaces that are more
or less vulgar. They should be done separate and apart from
witnesses, and not as a social exercise.
Private refinements enrich the character.
It has been claimed that wedlock lets down all bars and
makes everything allowable, because there are rights that are
still more familiar and private to which no objection is ever
made on the grounds stated. Such rights are not common-
place, but are peculiar to marriage. They are never vulgar,
and carry with them no taint of coarseness or humiliating
offence. On the other hand, they are by far the most refined
and exalting of relations when legally sanctioned, and are the
one atoning influence that helps to counterbalance the wrong
done by the commonplaces and vulgarities that are crowded
into some marriages. When properly surrounded by the higher
conduct of the ordinary relations, they fit in place with all
that Melnotte said to Pauline.
Yet most men believe that this familiarity lets in every-
thing that is gross. It is not so. There is abundant proof that
men and women after marriage have been as closely attentive
to these rights as any couple could possibly be, and yet have
never let down the bars to all the commonplaces and vulgarities
that are usual in some unions.
The distinction is a wide one, and should never be lost
sight of.
Commonplaces of dress should be avoided.
If it is necessary to remove the clothes that are worn in
the presence of other members of the family, and remain for
some length of time partly unrobed, there should be worn the
usual gowns or undress robes that are made for such contin-
gencies. There are also slippers or light shoes for the feet
that are generally used by persons of nice habits. They are
quite inexpensive, and there is no reason why they should
not be in every family. If a snapshot could be taken by the
camera of most wives and husbands as they go about and
COMMONPLACES 247
sit around in the intervals between wearing and not wearing
clothes, and if these views could be published with the names
of the men and women of whom they are photographs, the
result would be wholesome.
Some of these offences come within the teachings of the
third chapter of this book relating to the senses, and others
merely show the commonplace character of the husband or
wife, and thus lessen aU opportunity for the cultivation of
Sex Magnetism, which is based on sex attraction.
Cheap conversation should be avoided.
Thinking should precede speaking.
The husband likes to hear his wife talk sense, not rattle
along like a shallow brook over a bed of stones. Wives like
to believe in the good taste of their husbands, and this is
evinced largely in the style and manner of their many talks
from day to day. A noisy cart is an empty one, for the full
wagon moves steadily, while the empty one rattles along over
the rough street. The garrulous wife is too much in evidence.
Talk, talk, talk is tiring. Let it be reduced a little every day,
and the wife will survive the restriction which is thus volun-
tarily adopted. The quiet woman is a jewel if she is quiet
by nature, and not because she is pouting. The silent woman
is not a pleasing one ; but it is a fact that all men like the
kind of women who talk no more than is necessary for the
purpose of marriage. The happy medium is the best. In
woman the habit of quiet speech and of limited conversation
is close to magnetism. Such a woman holds quite a sway
over her husband.
The man who blows and brags and tells everybody about
himself, and repeats the story again and again, and has a
volume to say on every subject, is merely showing a feminine
mind of the gossipy kind ; for there are female minds in male
bodies, and male minds in female bodies. Such a man is a
nuisance, and his talk is just the opposite of magnetic. His
wife may or may not dare to tell him what she thinks of it ;
but she either verbally or mentally asks him to " shut up,"
and this calls forth a familiar commonplace. Couples live
like cats and dogs when they engage in these experiences.
Of course, there is nothing attractive in the parties them-
selves or in their marriage.
248 SEX MAGNETISM
Too much talk is commonplace.
There is seldom too much silence. When it is a habit and
is good-natured, then it is more or less magnetic. There is a
mystery about a man or woman who has not an opinion on
everything that occurs, and who is not frothy and exuberant
in words. If a person knows but little, silence covers the
ignorance. If he knows it all, it is better to be asked an
opinion than to make it cheap by offering it unsolicited.
The flip man or woman is commonplace.
There is a lack of seriousness and of weight in all that is
done and said. Smart remarks, conceited remarks, silly criti-
cisms, a jocose nature and a monkey mind are sometimes seen
in and out of what is called society. They are commonplace,
and tend to make husband and wife lose confidence in each
other where they prevail. No person can believe in a flip
character.
An exalted mind is magnetic.
The habit of telling anecdotes that are heard by men in
clubrooms, in saloons and in brothels is far from setting a
standard that will add to the appreciation that a woman
should have of her husband. These anecdotes, or stories, are
brought home by married men, repeated to their wives, by
the latter carried to the wives of other men, and thus reach the
ears of husbands who have never been in clubrooms, brothels
or saloons. No matter how witty they may be they are worse
than vulgar, for they carry the swine of nature of the slums
into refined homes. A woman makes the following statement
to show how easy it is to drop from one level to another :
" I was brought up as a girl under the best influences,
having the most careful of parents, and the best schools and
religious training. Nothing in all my life had come to me
that was vulgar or unclean in thought. I married a man
who was my equal in these matters. I had a girl friend who
married a man of great wealth, who belonged to a leading
social club. Her husband brought home to her many stories
that were unfit to be told, but what could I do ? I did not
feel that I could rebuke her, so I listened and did not laugh,
or show any interest in them. I even tried several times to
turn the conversation, but she persisted. I must have heard
a dozen or more unclean stories. One evening when there
COMMONPLACES 249
were several of us present at her home, she, in the hearing of
my husband and of her own, referred to the climax of what
was known as a '
smutty '
story, and the men both looked
at me as if I knew what was meant. From this episode came
the still bolder attempt of this friend's husband to tell me a
'
new one/ as he termed it. I could not endure the matter
any longer, and cut their acquaintance. My husband sustained
me in my decision. I then told him that this woman had been
telling me these stories for months, but that I respected him
too much to repeat them to him. He was glad that I had
retained by self-respect and my good opinion of him by doing
so. It can be seen how easily the women of different families
may mix with the husbands of each other until there is the
side glance, the word of temptation, and the ruin of some pure
heart who is frail."
It is true that vulgar stories pave the way to the fall of
wives when the couples attempt to make clubs of themselves
for the purpose of serving up this kind of mental filth. There
is always a greater attraction in the face of another man's
wife than in the face of your own, and that woman's husband
thinks your wife more attractive than she seems to you. If
the law and the voice of society permitted it, men and women
would exchange consorts in a most eager manner for the sake
of variety. Bargains of that kind have been made in the
past, and many of them have been arranged without severing
the legal union of the participants. Owing to the explosive
moral nature of humanity under the least temptation, it is
not wise to aid it by influences of the kind suggested. The
purity of the wife is of greater importance than the purity
of the husband ; and he owes it to himself, to her and to the
world at large that she be kept free from all acts and thoughts
that will contaminate her.
The husband will have a more loyal wife if he sets her the
example himself of the standard he expects from her. He
should be above all appearances of evil in mind and act. His
associations and conversations with other women, whether in
the presence of his wife or not, should be free from all famil-
iarity or good-fellowship. The reserve and dignity that a
gentleman owes to any person for whom he has the highest
respect should be maintained towards all women at all times.
250 SEX MAGNETISM
Commonplaces about the house are to be decreased. Some
men and women make good-fellows of their help, servants
and employees. This is not best. The husband whose wife
has female servants or attaches owes it to her that he be not
familiar or common with them. If there are male employees
in the house the wife should hold a distance of manner towards
them. Nor is it wise for the wife to be common with her
female attaches as she is with her daughters ; nor for the
husband to make his male attaches as familiar as he would
his sons. Dignity is always a sign of the higher nature in
man and woman, and there is a severe drop in that quality
when one class mixes too freely with the other. Every person
in his or her place is a good rule.
Criticisms are commonplaces.
They generally can be avoided, for a magnetic person knows
how better to convey the correction sought without the use
of a critical remark than with it. Diplomacy is a name for
evading giving offence or hurting one's feelings. There are
a dozen ways to avert such unpleasantness if there is mental
magnetism to find them. Some men make fierce attacks on
wife and employees when anything goes wrong. That is not
magnetism. The business man who once scolds his clerk or
helper is ever after that of weaker influence. The rough
methods are physical, whether they proceed from the body or
the mind. The cheap and weak-headed man will always be
found cursing and yelling at his men when they are stupid or
amiss ;
just as though stupidity could be cured by a storm, or
inability be mended by noise. To offend a workman by verbal
chastisement merely clouds his mind, and nothing clear can
come out of a clouded brain. If there is wilful dishonesty, the
treatment is a discharge where there is no hope of improvement.
Most men do not need the assistance of dishonest employees ;
they are better out of the way.
But stupidity is an inherited fault, and while it may not
be eradicated, it may be lessened if the employer has the
patience and desire to make the effort. Mistakes are the result
of carelessness or inability of some kind. The servant makes
them, and the wife makes them. So does the husband. A
man about the office who storms at his help is a noise-bag.
He has everything to learn about human nature. Some men
COMMONPLACES 251
who do not dare to lift their voices at their shops or offices are
veritable one-inch guns at home ;
they see everything that goes
wrong, and set about yelling at those who are at fault. That
is cowardly, as well as lacking in magnetism. No wife likes
to hear her husband scold anyone, servant or clerk. But she
is his target just as often. It would be a most uninviting home
for a woman to remain in where the husband could not be
cured of this fault.
But when he assails her, either by scolding or by quiet
criticism, in the presence of employees or servants, he becomes
a very low kind of individual ; and he is still more despicable
when he makes her his target even of slight criticism in the
presence of company or visitors. He has not left in him one
particle of the quality that belongs to a gentleman. The rule
of personal magnetism is very plain, and is clearly stated as
follows :
No magnetic man or woman corrects errors, mistakes or
stupidity by scolding or by offensive criticism.
All scolding is evidence of a low caste of mind. No criticism
is ever needed, if by that term is meant the use of words
that cause mental pain or sensitiveness ; and scolding is a much
more offensive assault than criticism. It is a battery of words
discharged from an empty head at the air in general hitting
no mark, although apparently aimed at some unfortunate
individual. In women it is a mental disease, as nearly incurable
as any constitutional malady of the nervous type. There have
been no cases on record of a scolding woman being cured. In
her brain there is a section that is abnormally constructed, and
she must scold or die. No liquor habit was ever more firmly
fixed. It is not only commonplace, but senseless, and without
one particle of excuse ;
for, if a husband is debased and worth-
less, his wife has made him so. The best men would be rendered
brutes by scolding wives.
As magnetism is powerless to put a stop to the operations
of the brain that impels the scolding, owing to the lack of
tissue there is on which to base improvement, it would be
useless for a scolding woman to undertake this study.
But there are some who are only partly under control of
this defect, who may check their bad habits by this and kindred
studies. Mental Magnetism shows the power of ideas. Thus
252 SEX MAGNETISM
a man who wants to call attention to a fault uses a third
person in a very roundabout way, and brings the matter home
to the party at whom he aims. Take the case of a young man
who was otherwise capable, but who had a bad habit of spitting
everywhere. The employer did not care to offend him directly,
and so dictated a letter to an applicant in the presence of the
young man, and inquired what his personal habits were,
including that of spitting. The following words were used :
" Many young men who are well qualified to rise in their
positions keep themselves back by this habit, which grows upon
them without their knowledge." The effect was complete.
In another case a man spoke directly to his employee of a
bad habit by telling him he once had a young man in his
employ who had a certain fault that many have, and that he
let him go on that account. There seemed to be no suspicion
aimed at this employee, but he possessed sense enough to act
upon it and overcome the fault.
There are thousands of cases where wives have adroitly
corrected husbands of bad faults by telling them they (the
husbands) were free from such habits. " I am so glad you are
not like some men ;
you never pick your teeth in the presence
of others. Some men even pick their teeth at the dining table,
and there are others who pick their teeth after they have left
the table. I saw a man doing this on his front-door step while
waiting for the car. He showed ill-breeding. I have never
seen you do such a thing, and I know you would not do it."
Statements of this kind may be made where husbands have
the reputation of being addicted to such habits, although the
wife, who may suspect, has not really seen the fault.
There was a woman who ran through the whole category
of evil ways possessed by her husband by apparently fighting
some other woman's husband, referring to him as guilty of
each fault, until her own husband had ended the bad habit
in his own practice. " I do not like to have Mrs. H. bring her
husband to my house," said a wife, " because he is all the time
working at his collar with his long finger down his neck, and
it makes me nervous to see him do it." As a matter of fact,
Mr. H. never did such a thing, but the husband did not stop
to think of that. He was never told that he had that fault,
yet he found himself at it quite often. "I do think what
COMMONPLACES 253
you said about H. has set me doing the same thing/' said he ;
" and I am going to stop it before I get as bad as H."
There are many instances where maids in the house, servants
in employ as domestics and otherwise, and labourers have
been corrected by this roundabout method. A cook who had
the habit of getting roasts and other dishes done a long time
before a meal, and who was so very sensitive that she would
have left had she been criticized, was told by the woman who
employed her : "lam so glad you know just what time to
cook meats so as to have them done in plenty of time before
dinner. The cook that my friend Mrs. J. has, gets things too
much the other way. She cannot tell time, and has everything
done and cold or dried up an hour before dinner." Here was
a double working of the mind under Mental Magnetism. The
cook was, if at all suspicious, looking for criticism on having
things done too soon ; but she was taken off her guard by
hearing the woman speak of her being too late, a fault which
she knew she did not have ;
then, after the suspicion was out
of the way, the opposite fault was touched upon by charging it
to another cook.
A suspecting mind is thrown off its guard by a hint about
something exactly opposite to what is to be discussed.
Every man or woman who is disposed to find fault must
remember that no one is perfect ; that to err is human, and to
be absolutely right in every detail, large and small, would
detract from growth. It is only by mistakes and wrongs that
improvement is made possible. There should be a disposition
to overlook everything that occurs, if there is no wickedness
in it, no matter how wrong it may be otherwise. Just ask
yourself, What difference will it make a hundred years from
now ? As a general rule, magnetism does not look at anything
at close range. Everything is seen in the fight of a broad
vision and distant effect.
This habit of the mind results in a straighter course through
life. It is like steering a car. The best experts at the wheel
take in the whole road, keeping in view the farthest part
ahead, with an occasional glance of what is close by ;
but the
mind and gaze concur on the full length of the road in front.
The result is that the machine is kept in a straight line when so
managed. But there are men at the wheel who are not experts
254 SEX MAGNETISM
who watch only the part of the road that is right in front of the
car. The car is constantly veering, bobbing from right to
left a few inches only, but enough to make it uneven in its
course, and leaving a track that is crooked. The effect of the
mind on distance is so strong that this habit of steering has
been the subject of many experiments to determine if an
expert could avoid the veering motion in case he kept his gaze
on the close part of the road. It has been found that the expert
does not keep his gaze close to the machine, but far away most
of the time, although cognizant always of what is near, yet not
studying that part of his way as he does the longer portion.
The non-expert sees only what is very near in front of the car.
When the expert forces himself out of his habit to observe only
the near part of the road, he soon loses the control of the wheel
that keeps it in a very straight line of travel.
While this seems a very trivial illustration, it embodies a
law of life both physical and mental. It is a double law. It
shows what has been shown in many other ways—that the
muscles obey the mind in an unconscious way, known as a
psychic influence. What the muscles do, on the other hand, the
mind will adopt unconsciously. Thus life is shaped by habits.
So in the faults and mistakes that fill the existence of every
person day in and day out the same law prevails. Those who
are associated with you may not be all you would like to have
them. A wife may be careless or stupid. A husband may be
weak in his methods and full of blunders. There is a way of
reducing all faults, except where the brain itself is lacking in
constructive tissue. This reduction may be extended to your-
self and to other persons. You may lessen your own defects,
as well as those of your associates.
At the same time that this lessening process is going on, it
is wise to adopt the long-range view of life. If you see people
at close range, which means in their commonplaces, you will
steer the craft of life in a wobbling manner. But if you over-
look the smallnesses of others, which means to look over them,
you will see beyond them. If you take the close-range view,
it will be magnified like everything else that is at close range ;
faults will look larger than they are, and people will seem
disagreeable to you. When you seek trouble you look at the
little things about you, never at the great ones. It is, of course,
COMMONPLACES 255
an old saying that you can find what you look for ;
but it is
also where you look that determines what you see. And it is
how close you look.
Do you know that at close range your dearest friends are
unattractive to you under certain circumstances ?
Do you know that at close range the little things, the small
ways, the trivial character of a person will be revealed ;
whereas
at long range nothing would be seen of them ?
Many a woman, having known her lover only in his larger
character, has been filled with endless disappointments because,
after marriage, she has insisted on knowing all the trivial
characteristics that he possesses, and has tried to get rid of
them by the scouring process ?
Do you know that that brother of yours, whom you once
loved and of whom you knew nothing wrong, has smallnesses
and disagreeable ways that now make him different from the
olden days ?
Do you know that your sister is less attractive than she once
was because you see her with eyes focussed on trivial faults ?
Here is a daughter who has married a man of wealth and
has moved into a mansion, is surrounded by luxuries and seeks
the stamp of approval from a social set that makes its estimate
of her largely from the side she displays to public view. Her
old mother, living at the homestead in the quiet of life's
evening, is plain but lovable, sweet but of homely ways, and
always tender of her daughter in thought and deed. This old
lady was once a young mother, and when her only daughter lay
at the point of death through long days of illness, there was the
ceaseless watch and the endless care, the touch of a hand that
eased the pain and brought comforts to the bedside ;
but that
mother, now grown aged, is allowed to call on her daughter at
stated intervals only and then she must enter at the back door
for fear some of the social set may see her.
In the light of new circumstances, the daughter sees her
mother at short range and her many crudities are magnified
until she is no longer a fit person for the social set.
When days of adversity come, as they may, and the daughter
is again in want of love and tender care, she will view life at
long range once more, and the faults of the mother will have
become invisible. Back to youth when the little girl sat at the
256 SEX MAGNETISM
knee of the most perfect woman on earth, as it seemed to her
then, will memories revert and the old scenes be lived over
again ; all too sweet to be real in the revival of recollections
in after years.
Our homely ways, our old-fashioned temperament, our plain
and simple methods stand out as ugly blotches on the face of
the false conditions which are called society. So wicked are
these new conditions that they would impel that daughter, in
her home of luxury, to deny its plainest room to her mother's
body when death came, for nothing shabby could be brought
into its precincts.
How many rich women to-day are not ashamed of father
and mother who live on the farm and have not learned the
nicer ways of using a fork at the table ?
To these social newcomers the crudities and uncouth habits,
while not vulgar, are commonplaces, and prove offensive in the
presence of their guests. It is not our purpose to settle the
question of etiquette here as having a bearing on the peace of
mind of children who have grown up into better circumstances
than their parents enjoyed. The only fact of importance is
the change of feeling toward a person with the change of range
in the view.
This feeling acts both ways.
When you begin to observe a person at short range, all the
small faults come into sight and are magnified ; whereas at
long range they would not be seen at all. When things go
wrong, and there is very little prospect of a remedy being at
hand, it is well to take a very long range, as by asking yourself
the question, " What difference will it make a hundred years
from now ?
"
But this view is not justified when a remedy can be applied.
Therefore, if you have little faults, call them in one at a time,
or lessen them ;
while, on the other hand, paying very little
attention to the small faults of other persons. If your consort
can be induced to lessen his or her trivial errors and unpleasant
habits, that result may be obtained by setting this book where
it may be read by such persons ; for it will have its effect.
But do not scold.
Do not criticize.
Do not nag.
COMMONPLACES 257
These are meannesses that take out of married life all the
beauty it possesses, and all the hope it was founded upon when
the contract was entered into.
In an article just from the press in a magazine is a reference
to the personal magnetism of Robert Louis Stevenson ; and the
following extract will give a light upon what marriage can be
made to mean where the commonplaces are lost to view. The
writer, after speaking of the characteristics of Stevenson, said :
" I saw him in his home, and found a lofty love present there
in the simplest form. I knew him under many varying cir-
cumstances, and in his many nights from poverty, undertaken
over and over again. . . . Last of all I pried into that period
of simple human happiness at Samoa which was the crown
and culmination of his life—and as I read, all of a sudden
the intense magnetism of the man came upon me also, and
I, too, bowed down and worshipped. Why question it, after
all ? Who can ever explain the attraction of one temperament
for another, or the influence of one mind over another ? As
well one might try to explain the still sadness of a summer
night ; or the terrific effect of organ music on any sensitive,
nervous organization ; or any of the other influences, personal
or impersonal, which are in a small way psychic phenomena
and, therefore, inexplicable. Like all those who have, to a very
developed degree, the power of inspiring friendship, Stevenson
had felt one or two deeply romantic friendships in his own life,
among which might almost be included his attachment to his
wife. This lasted from the first days that he knew her as an
unhappy woman to the time when she followed him to the
South Sea Island, in that earthly paradise to spend the late
honeymoon of a profound love. There also Stevenson, who had
so often and so gallantly defied death, met it face to face at
last, with the pluck which was always his predominant char-
acteristic—asking only that he might pass out of the beauty
about him with his mental faculties unimpaired, and '
in his
heart some late lark singing.'
It is wedlock such as this that brings the world nearer to
heaven in its attractiveness.
The question may be asked, why destroy the spell that was
thrown over the hope of the woman when first she found a
lover and felt the thrill of her response to his devotion 1
258 SEX MAGNETISM
Look at that word, devotion. It has a pleasing force as it
is written. It holds a power that might lift all humanity up
into a better realm. During the days of courtship, it is said
that the two lovers are devoted to each other ; but how often
is that term used of married couples ? The suitor says : "I
offer you the devotion of a true heart." After marriage, if he
is shown the letter that contains the statement, he laughs at it
and says it must have been written when he was foolish. In that
one denial, villainous and baleful, is contained the low dregs
of the human heart, outpoured on the altar of marriage.
There is hardly any need of special vision with which to
look into the home of which he is ostensibly at the head. It
is full of commonplaces, and there is nothing else there. It
is cheap, flip, dreary, unwholesome in every part, and a con-
stant shifting from one mood to another, all of the darker
sorts. The wife has no future in this world with that man
if he cannot bring magnetism into his life, or she does not
succeed in bringing it to him by her own powers, such as will
be described in later parts of this work.
The husband is generally at fault when the commonplaces
appear in marriage, but not always. The kind of wife that has
been referred to many times herein is fully as culpable as the
husband. But, as a rule, the husband, being coarser-grained
in his ethical nature, is the one that drives out of the union
those better sentiments that give it a place above the common
drift of life.
There are all sorts of ways of living.
Some folks eat, sleep, and let everything else take care of
itself. Some do not care what they eat, so that they get
enough. Some do not care where they sleep, so that they are
allowed to sleep somewhere. The tramp that selects the barn-
loft, or the empty goods waggon, or the trench by the stye, is
contented with his lot. Anything better would jar on his
nerves. This same principle, slightly raised in point of con-
venience, prevails in most marriages. It is eating, sleeping
and working. Once in a while there comes the opportunity for
diversion, which is enjoyed more in the anticipation than in the
reality.
Both parties ate before they were married, and, therefore,
the union was not necessary for that service.
COMMONPLACES 259
They both wore clothing, were housed, and went through
with the duties of life in some form or other, so that wedlock
did not bring them something new in these things. In fact,
there was nothing that of itself depended on matrimony for its
having ; so that the inducement must have been some hope
that had lingered for a long time in the hearts of both.
In the form of that hope, marriage held a charm that was
strong enough to lure them on. The thought itself was mag-
netic, and the perpetual enjoyment of a higher relationship
than either had ever known was a possibility up to the time
that commonplaces began to creep in.
The remedy for those who are now married, and who have
settled down to a prosaic existence, is to drive out, one by one,
the commonplaces of each day, until there is a different atmos-
phere about them. Hunt for these little things that take
the edge off the finer sensibilities. Make a list of them. See
how many commonplaces you will be able to include in that
list. Learn what a commonplace is. If you have one, or ten,
or a hundred, get acquainted with them, and so recognize them,
in order that they may be avoided.
A woman some years ago, whose married life was so dull
and uninteresting that she wanted to fly from it all, no matter
how she got away, was told to list all her commonplaces, not
paying any attention to her husband's. At first she did not
think she had any ; in a week she had found ten, a month
later she had found twenty-eight, and in three months she
was sure of fifty. She made herself familiar with the impulses
and habits that brought them into activity, and she carried on
a campaign, as she called it, against them, one at a time.
The first commonplace that she conquered, according to her
report, was carelessness in her attire. She found herself
wearing torn dresses and clothing with some buttons lacking.
In a week she had all her dresses and other clothing mended.
Her husband did not notice the difference, but she felt better
over the fact. Then she had been in the habit of wearing
soiled clothing, some of her outer garments being dirty, and
others in need of cleaning. This fault was remedied. As a
third commonplace she was of the opinion that she talked too
much in a vein that did not impress him as the height of good
sense. She did not do as some women have done, become
260 SEX MAGNETISM
silent all at once, and have him ask her what was the matter,
she was so still ; but she lessened her chatter ten per cent at
least, and took themes that were of better quality. Still he
did not seem to notice any change.
It was very gradual.
She had been slangy. So had he. She dropped slang terms,
one by one. He was less inclined to be slangy, but he hardly
realized that her care of her words was having an influence
on him. It was an instinctive change ; such a care in the choice
of words that a person will take in the presence of some indi-
vidual who is respected. If you command respect by your
methods you will generally get it from others.
In the mornings, evenings, on Sundays and holidays when
there had been no occasion for dressing up, she had paid no
attention to looking her best for him. Little by little she
adopted a new plan, and began to look better. This seemed to
make her more attractive to him, and she went still further,
until she was always neat and well-appearing in his presence
when they were up and dressed. She even became more
tidy in her undress habits. A woman can be slack or neat at
all times. It costs very little extra effort to be at one's best.
At the dining-table she had not always been as ladylike as
she could have been, and so she adopted the rule as follows :
When at the table think that there are many persons near by
at other tables who can see everything that is done, and behave
so that there can be no criticism of any act.
She found that there are several degrees of conduct that may
be employed in eating and serving at the table. She set as
her mark the imagined fact that she was dining with some
very great personage, before whom she wished to appear a well-
bred lady. How would she eat if her husband were her lover,
and this was their first meal together ? These thoughts had an
effect upon her, for day by day she became a better-bred
woman, and the transition was so gradual that he never knew
fully what was going on. But he felt that greater care was
being exercised, and at last, in a burst of wonderment, he
said :
" Bess, I have been feeling for some time as if I was
dining out."
She did not become active and bring him his slippers, get
his evening gown, and do the things that a wife, shortly
COMMONPLACES 261
before Christmas, might do ; but she began to note that there
were little matters in his own clothing, and in other things
that might add to his comfort that she could remedy as well
as not ; and these, one at a time, were made right. He did not
know how it came about ;
perhaps he thought it happened so
by some law of nature ; but he was pleased by the change.
Her tastes in a literary and musical line were next to
receive attention. She had been exceedingly devoid of ambition
to improve her mind or her love for the beautiful side of life ;
and now she thought she could do so with some advantage to
him and to herself ; for a wife draws her husband to her by
these influences. Better books were bought. Novels were
laid aside. She had a piano, and a higher class of music took
some of her attention. A few of the classical pieces that she
had mastered when she was in her period of betrothal were
reviewed and brought out with fine effect.
Her husband did not seem to care for them. But, as all
that is classical in music grows on one's attention by repeti-
tion until it is appreciated, he soon found a real desire to
hear these selections. Had she given up after a dozen repeti-
tions of them, she might have thought that he no longer cared
for high-class music. She used to sing, but the commonplaces
of marriage had caused her to drop that line of entertainment
from her life. Now she came back to some of the songs that
he liked ; and one evening he asked her to repeat certain songs
for him. Another evening he said :
" Bess, if you are going to
sing and play this evening, I think I will not go to the Club,
as I would rather hear you than the men." A tear stood in
her eye and her voice choked, but she went bravely on, and
he had a royal time alone with his wife. It was different
from that other occasion years before, when, for the first time,
he put on his hat and coat, and told her he was going out to see
some friends, as he was tired of being housed so much. A tear
then stood in her eye, for it was the first time that he had made
known the fact that he was tired of her whose society he had so
longed for when their courtship was yet very new.
One morning when she sat alone and pondered on the way
she had been treating her husband in the years that had been
so dull and prosey, she came to the conclusion that she had
not been as gracious in her manner to him as she formerly
262 SEX MAGNETISM
was in the first years of wedlock. She knew it would not do
to make a display of a change, for she despised pretence and
sudden resolutions to do better that might flash in the pan
and soon be cold again. She much preferred to let things drift
along in easy gradations, so that he would not suspect and
charge her with some kind of reform, for this would humiliate
her. She did not know why, but she dreaded it.
So she became more gracious.
The smile that women assume she could not adopt. She
was too sincere ; but she did make herself quietly agreeable and
pleasant in her manner, and in all she said and did. She
looked upon life at long range.
They sat alone in the twilight, and once he talked about
their future, about their prospect for being better off, about
a better home, and about themes that lured on to a more
satisfying existence. She had never heard him talk like that
before ; nor had he felt sure of an audience had he tried. But
now they seemed to be coming closer together in life's firm
purpose to rise in the world, and he wanted to formulate an
ambition to such an end.
As the twilight deepened, and as the coals from the fire
sent shadows across the room, a prayer went up from her
heart that he might learn to know her better ; that she might
make him worthy of the best wife in the world, and that she
might be that wife to him.
The commonplaces were dropping out of that home.
Her birthday came. There had been several of them since
they were married. Before the wedding, and during the first
months of the courtship, he had brought her beautiful flowers
and dainties that she loved. Once after the marriage he had
given her a very plain bouquet, but that was all ; and after
that she never knew whether he was aware of the return of
her birthdays or not, and she was too proud to mention them
to him. But now, wholly unsolicited and without reminder
from her, he did remember, and he brought to her the biggest
bunch of the grandest roses that could be had in the city.
And he had other presents. And he had a surprise dinner
for her, arranged all without her knowledge. She seemed to
expect this attention, for she was not moved in the least by
it. He wondered why she did not make a great demonstra-
COMMONPLACES 263
tion of the gratification in return for the revival of the olden
regard. But she was nonchalant. This annoyed him.
At length, when the day was ended and they were alone,
she went to him as he sat with his face buried in his hands, and
she said :
" I did not thank you before the others, and I did not let on
that I was surprised, for I wanted them to think all these
attentions were regular occurrences in our married life." She
placed one little hand in his, and they sat there in silence.
At length he drew her to him, and he took her in his arms, as he
said :
" Bess, I love you more than I ever did before in all my
life. I do not know what has been coming over me of late,
but I know that I love you, and that I am intensely happy
with you."
The foregoing case is absolutely true in every detail, and has
been repeated in other homes more than once.
It is useless to say there is no magnetism in decreasing the
commonplaces of life.
When such decrease will gradually take you back to the
first days of courtship, it means that there is a power behind
it that is capable of changing human nature. What was it
that made you forget your wife's birthday ? What was it,
after the reply that gave her to you as your affianced wife, long
before the marriage had taken place, that made her less and
less desirable to you, and that took off the fine edge of your
devotion to her, even before the wedding-day was agreed
upon ?
What was it that made matrimony seem dull and wearying
after the first weeks of novelty had passed ?
It was a simple law.
It was the law of retrograding back into the tiresome same-
ness of existence, and it was brought about by the appearance
of one commonplace after another. As they came into your
life and her fife, the beautiful devotion fled, and she was a
very common piece of clay, not by any means as charming as
the wife of your neighbour, of whom you know nothing in a
common way.
Every man and woman possesses personal magnetism, but
they do not retain it. About one in a thousand hold some
degree of this power, and all others let it slip through their
264 SEX MAGNETISM
nerves. They are like men with high wages and higher
expenses ;
they have all they can do to keep alive, whereas, if
they were to save one per cent of what they earned as a
sinking fund against future use, they would soon be
independent.
True personal magnetism is founded on two influences :
1. The prevention of physical and nervous leakages.
2. The attainment of an inexplainable charm.
That which charms us is something out of the ordinary. The
people who have lived in lands where there are royal families
and nobility rarely ever desire to get rid of them, for they are
parting with a kind of worship that must exist in the human
heart or it will die of famine. In the times and movements of
democratic feeling, when caste is levelled to the ranks of the
hodcarrier, there rises up the love for something that appeals
to the fancy. In the simplest forms of religious worship among
the peoples of earliest Caucasian civilization, there was the
outer temple, and the inner temple, and the holy of holies.
To-day in the Christian church that touches the lowest and
simplest forms of civilization, there are ceremonies proportioned
to the dearth of other means of attracting the imagination ;
and these rites rise higher as the people fall lower in their
social rank. An army of invisible saints hovers over the earth,
with new ones being canonized every year.
Thus the love of a charm that is inexplainable in its char-
acter and power dwells in human life and draws it up out of
the dregs of toil and suffering, planting beauty where rough-
ness and shadowy forms of gloom would otherwise rule all the
world.
If there were 365 days in the year all alike, and all on the
same level, people would go mad with the commonplaces. Dis-
content follows a crowd of commonplaces. Men in the severity
of unvarying toil lose their minds, and women who are kept in
one line of duties go insane or break down both nervously and
mentally. If you keep a child in a dull monotony of existence
it will become weak in its brain, no matter how much power
of muscle it may acquire. There are men to-day who have no
charm before them to lure them on ;
they fall into ugly tempers
and are bad citizens. One kind of work, and one thing or one
line of things to think about all the time, makes the mind both
COMMONPLACES 265
stupid and irritable, and from sameness comes the breakdown
and desire to end it all as quickly as possible. Women seem
as if they would like to fly out of themselves because of the
awful monotony of the same flood of duties, with no hope ahead
for something different.
If there were all week-days in the year, the world would
never endure a half-century. The injection of the seventh day
of rest is an inspiration coming from a power that is higher
than human invention. The duty of all men and women then
is to make Sunday different from the six days of the week ;
different in every way ; different in the meals, and in the
arrangement of them, different in the appearance of the house
and the clothing that is worn, different in thought, duty, work,
diversion and everything the ear hears, the eye sees, and the
body comes in contact with. It pays to have some attraction
in the house, and some attraction out of doors that is in
harmony with the best ethical sense ; not the games that are
suited to working days and their holiday releases, nor the
things that can be had on week-days.
We are not appealing to men and women to attend church
if they do not desire to do so ; but we do ask them to dress as
well as if they were going to church and to be in their best dress
all day long ; to have something beautiful and attractive,
although quiet and in accord with the sweet idea of peace in
their minds and customs on this one day in the week. Let the
change be complete. That is all that is asked. It should be a
radical and thorough change on account of the relief it will
bring to the mind and to the nerves. Of itself, if there can be
a " wholly different " day on Sunday, fifty-two times every
year, it will do more to make the mind normal and the nerves
controllable than any other single influence.
That day should be freed from the commonplaces, and
lifted in an ethical sense to a higher plane. If the public as a
whole cannot and will not do it, then the husband and wife
should do it. Have you enough magnetism to set your will
up against your lower tastes ? Which is stronger in you—the
depraved desires for the garbage of human life, or your personal
magnetism ?
Try it, and let us know which is master.
Also, when the rubbish and sickly sensations, the diabolical
266 SEX MAGNETISM
crimes, the scandal and the suicides, the gambling that is
so often encouraged by some, the papers, the silly cartoons
that most men and some women have come to regard as witty,
when they are only inane, the flingers of mud against many
public and prominent persons of the nation, the ridicule of all
good customs, the pretended charity sought to deceive the
public, and the smearing of everything that is beautiful and
sacred with the ink of the press, all tend to destroy the charm
of life and fill it with commonplaces and much that is worse.
Some day there will be a daily press that will publish the news
as a line of current history, retaining only such facts as would
be worthy of remembering ten years hence. Here and here
alone is the test, outside of the weather and official
statements.
One day in every seven should be devoted to an extraction
from the dreaded monotony of cheap existence. Its trend is
in an ethical direction.
But there are other days, and they are to be welcomed, the
more the better, when the habits of the working days can be
laid aside and life be lifted up into something beautiful. They
are holidays.
Therefore, on holidays, enjoy the period of change. A
holiday is supposedly a day in which to get rid of the common-
places that take the charm out of life. Let it be so in as many
ways as possible. If the public are not with you in your
efforts to make the times better, you can make your influence
felt in your home. Be sure that you try. One home lifted
out of the commonplaces is one unit saved in a great nation,
and enough units to become a force for good is invincible.
It is not numbers, but influences that sway the world. It has
often happened that one man has led the way to revolution.
There is only one right way, and thousands of wrong ways ;
and a small band in the right can outgeneral the scattered
forces of error. This has always been the movements of
history in the past, and must always be the method of civiliza-
tion in the future. God and one man make a majority.
Be of good heart.
Do not lose courage.
You can become a power in this world if you choose.
What you may be unable to accomplish in changing the
COMMONPLACES 267
public purpose you may win in the realm of your own home.
There let all holidays witness the disappearance of common-
places. Anticipation is the soul of happiness. Prepare in
advance, and some days or weeks in advance, some programme
for each coming holiday. The longer ahead it is discussed the
more it will be enjoyed. If you have no family except a wife,
let her know that you are thinking of what can be done on
the next holiday. If she has been saturated by commonplaces ;
she will say something that will discourage you, like this :
" What is the use ? All days are alike to me. It is time
enough to see what we will do when the day comes. It is too
far off now." These remarks are natural, for they tell you
how she has been thinking in the past. The charm of life for
her died long ago. Never mind. Go ahead, and refer to it m
an off-hand manner once in a while, and let her see that you
have been doing a little something for that day. After a
few of them have come and been made different from the other
days, she, too, will begin to take interest in them.
Skill and good judgment are required to bring about these
results. The husband who was ridiculed by his wife for want-
ing to make a holiday different from any other day, and who
desisted with the remark that he was through with trying to
make home happier, was unlike the other husband who said noth-
ing after that, but showed his purpose in doing something which
was better. The greatest of all mistakes is for husband and
wife to seek enjoyment in different ways. The man who
wants to get happiness in a selfish way will find out some day
that it does not pay. All his Sundays and all his holidays
belong to his wife, whether he or she so wills or not ;
and his
spare evenings are hers also. If he is in the way at home then,
or at any time, it is because she had no faith in his generous
impulses to make her happier. The man whose wife is happier
in his absence is pretty near beyond salvation, and the fault is
generally with him. There was a time when he was wanted
or she would not have married him. No woman, except one
of depraved tastes, wants bad tobacco odours and smoke
filling her nostrils and lungs for hours every evening, and on
Sundays and holidays. She knows full well that her lungs
need pure air, not bad smoke. There are many homes,
millions of them, in fact, that have no air except that which is
268 SEX MAGNETISM
tainted with smoke from foul-smelling tobacco ; and this in
times when the lungs are being destroyed by tuberculosis
because of want of pure air. No wonder that the wife wants
her husband to spend his evenings out. He is gross and
selfish who will always be smoking in the house. There is, of
course, a difference between the smoking of a clean pipe and
one that is dirty and foul-smelling. Then there is the choice of
tobacco.
It is a test of personal magnetism to be able to lay aside
this commonplace. Drive away all commonplaces on Sundays,
on evenings, on holidays, and on all special occasions. Know
the date of birth of every member of your family and celebrate
it in some way. The poor woman who paid fivepence for an
artificial holly wreath for her window a few days before
Christmas, and kept it hanging there until after New Year's
day, and then laid it aside until the next year, when it would
serve the same purpose, filled with joy the hearts of her
children. It was a departure from the commonplaces, and
those children, afterwards grown up and able to have homes
of their own, held in sacred reverence this simple custom,
enlarging it as the years sped, and bringing other homes to
adopt the same habit.
In proportion as you make Christmas, and New Year's day,
and Easter, and all the better holidays more esteemed, in the
same proportion will you add a charm to life by decreasing the
commonplaces.
And that birthday. Do not forget it. Get flowers, get a
little present, no matter what, even if it costs less than a
shilling ; it is a reminder. Let something better be brought
into the house. Do something to celebrate the birthday of
each child and each relative. Not much is needed. One
carnation or one rose at the side of the breakfast plate will
help, for it decreases to that slight extent one commonplace
at least ; and it matters not so much how fast you are going
as it does in what direction you are travelling. When once
you have started on the road to lessen the commonplaces, you
are moving in the right way.
An endless account of these wonderful little influences might
be written here. But enough has been said.
Seek to bring back the charm that hallowed the first weeks
COMMONPLACES 269
of your courtship, when the roses were brought to her because
you thought she was worthy of them.
Every woman who was worth asking to become your wife
has in her make-up somewhere, perhaps hidden and lost almost
hopelessly, but it is there nevertheless, a beauty of heart that
you once thought you had detected. That loveliness is still in
her. It will not come out now under the power of an invita-
tion. The smile that she once looked for would seem ridiculous
now, and the kiss that you thought yourself lucky to get years
ago would now be perfunctory, cold and leathery. All is
changed. You and she eat, sleep, dress, go through the work
of the day and the monotony of the evening, and that is all.
Life that began on the edge of Charmland is sunken in the
dregs of more commonplaces than you think you will ever be
able to drive away.
If you do, in fact, get rid of one commonplace, in its stead
will come Sex Magnetism.
When two commonplaces are driven away, then double the
power of Sex Magnetism will come in to take their room.
This is the method by which life can be elevated little by little
to a higher place. It is a fight against the commonplaces
that are dumped into marriage. No other kind of magnetism
has this to contend with. The orator has his audience, his
distance, his auditorium, and the better conditions that attend
careful preparation. In the pulpit are many influences that
help the preacher. In the court-room the jurymen are mostly
strangers to the advocate, and he has his time of getting
all things ready for the plea on behalf of his client. Every
profession has its helps to the men and women whose magnet-
ism must fight its way to victory.
But marriage drifts to nothing but commonplaces. In that
familiar relationship it is possible to dump every bad habit,
every foul custom, every littleness, every bit of bickering, every
neglect, every aptitude for laziness and slackness, and every
fit of irritability. The wonder is that wedlock stands up as
well as it does under this fearful strain ;
and the coming free-
dom of women everywhere will open the door to their egress
from this nasty and bestial life. They are not called upon to
endure it, and there is no power on earth that will compel
them to do so. Even the mother love of children will not in
270 SEX MAGNETISM
the near future be strong enough to force them to remain in
the home with the average man as he is now constructed in
his habits. There was never a time when women took the
reins in their own hands in this regard as they are doing
to-day. Ten years ago the separations, legal and otherwise,
were less than one-third what they are to-day. This year they
are thirty per cent more than they were last year. Next
year they will be larger, and so it will go on until there is an
awakening. Homes are being rapidly broken up.
Some generations ago women were extricated from the bond-
age of slavery in the home. Then she was non compos mentis
in law. She has been legally free for some time, but has not
realized the meaning of the new condition. The desire for
support is now the one impelling reason for marriage, except
with the rare few who believe that there is a charm yet in the
union of hearts and minds.
Education is fitting women for self-support. Then only the
poorer classes will adopt marriage ;
and, as their temperaments
are identical in most instances, they will take up the burden
of reproducing the race. What the outcome will be can be
surmised.
Many of the marriages that took place years ago are being
broken apart, but the severance is occurring in largest numbers
in those unions that are most recent. It seems that the newest
entrants are the least stable.
In every woman who is worth having, and there are millions,
there is somewhere a charm, and a divine beauty that needs
a different kind of man to give life and nurture to it ; not
the man of to-day, but the man that has once lived ; noble
in spirit, generous in nature, gallant in conduct, and devo-
tional in his appreciation of the fairer and better sex. It
is such a man that is invited to come with us into Charmland.
There are women waiting in great numbers for such men,
and they are worth winning.
Both sexes must possess qualities that are attractive. The
finery of clothes and the assumed habits of an evening soon
wear away their charm when the eternal grind of daily life
begins. You look your best, you act your best and you dress
when you know that " your best " is absolutely necessary to win
the regard of the opposite sex. But how soon after marriage
COMMONPLACES 271
is
" your best " cast aside ? Here are two pictures for your con-
templation : one is that first evening when you sought to make
a deep impression ; and the other is the last Sunday morning as
you were half-dressed, impatient, fretted, untidy and curt in
your remarks.
The secret is here :
Every man has an inner nature that can be made charming
if he will only cultivate it into a permanent habit ; and every
woman has a similar nature. But it must be natural, and not
a veneer. It must be drawn out and not skimmed on as a
coated surface. There is but one natural way of building a
native condition of attractiveness and that is to fight down the
commonplaces until they are removed. Then what comes to the
character will be natural ; otherwise it will be an assumption
that cannot withstand the wear and tear of marriage.
The best method is that which was taught many years ago.
It consisted in making a list of all the commonplaces that
occurred during the day, and keeping up this practice until there
were at least one hundred of them. If you try to think of all
you possess at once, you will find very few ; but if you have
the skill of observation you will find scores of them. You surely
have at least a hundred commonplaces. See if you can find
them. Then charge yourself with them ;
and, as one after
another may be driven out of your life, credit yourself with
the gain ; and so proceed until you are charming in manner and
in heart.
MAGNETIC MARGINS
GAINS are made by making margins. By this term no
reference to stock margins is intended, as they belong to
the field of gambling. There is a margin along the edge of a
book, and a margin between the edge of the precipice and the
road over which the carriage passes. These are protections to
the page and the road. Between the earning capacity of any
individual and his expenditures the margin is what is saved.
The greater the difference between the two, the greater will be
the savings.
It has been stated in the early part of this book that a man
who spends all he earns saves nothing ; but the man who lives
within his income is making gains. If he earns three pounds a
week and spends two pounds fifteen, the margin is five shillings a
week, or thirteen pounds a year. If he makes two pounds ten
shillings and spends two pounds six shillings, the margin is four
shillings a week, or ten pounds eight shillings a year. If he earns
three pounds ten shillings a week and spends three pounds, the
margin is ten shillings a week, or twenty-six pounds a year.
Thus a married couple who work in the home of their employer,
and receive each ten pounds eight shillings a month, and spend
only one hundred pounds a year, would have a margin of
twenty-four pounds sixteen shillings a year, or two hundred
and forty pounds sixteen shillings in ten years, as is actually
the case with a large number of such couples, while a high-
priced mechanic who earned five pounds a week and spent
five pounds a week would have nothing at the end of ten years,
as is the case with many such men.
The boy who began his clerkship at fifteen shillings a week
and spent twelve shillings and sixpence saved money because
he had a margin. In the second year he received one pound a
week and spent fifteen shillings, making a still greater margin.
In the third year he received one pound ten shillings a week
and spent one pound three shillings, making a better showing
MAGNETIC MARGINS 273
still. In the fourth year he received one pound fifteen shillings
a week and spent one pound five shillings. In the fifth year,
when he was twenty years old, he received two pounds ten
shillings a week and spent one pound fifteen shillings. The
next year he earned two pounds fifteen shillings a week and
spent one pound seventeen shillings. When he was twenty-six
years old he owned a house surrounded by a large piece of land,
and he then married an old maid who was ten years older than
he was. The marriage occurred twenty-two years ago, and it
has been filled with happiness and blessed with five children,
all in perfect health to-day. The wife looks as young as the
husband, and they both seem younger than their years, because
they have had nothing to worry about. Such a marriage is
secure in nine hundred and ninety-nine times out of a thousand,
because it is well founded.
Another man who from the time he was twenty years old
had earned two pounds ten shillings a week, saving only five
shillings a week, for a period of forty years, was, as he said,
" rich all the time," because he earned more than he spent.
The few hundred pounds he had when he was sixty seemed a
large fortune to him. But he spoke of himself as coming all
along the years ahead of his expenses ;
independent, and full
of that confidence that is born of the margin on the right side.
A margin that is on the right side is known as a magnetic
margin. The reason for so terming it is that it is magnetic.
Confidence is power, and it is the father of power. Anything
that is a margin on the right side gives confidence. It is when
there is no margin that the blues come, and a person with the
blues has no magnetism. Only optimism begets this power.
One cannot be optimistic with the margin on the wrong side.
As will-power and the use of the principles set forth in the
second chapter of this work will surely bring a magnetic margin,
it is useless for a person to find fault with his luck or his goddess
of fortune.
There is in the air, in the head, in the heart, and in the blood
a drawing power that magnetism works upon and makes active.
Just the moment that you set in motion any kind of magnetism
it becomes a force that will draw what is called good-luck.
Some persons are said to have luck in everything they under-
take, and others to have failure in everything. " Why is it,"
18
274 SEX MAGNETISM
asks a friend to-day with whom we have been talking, " that
my brother is worth thousands of pounds and I cannot get
income enough to keep my bills paid ? " That brother seems
to have luck in everything. We know him. And we know the
one who complains. The former has magnetism, and that
draws something to him all the time. The latter has not one
bit of magnetism and is a most unattractive man in all his ways
and methods, and he repels good fortune.
It is said that money makes money ; that if a man once gets
a start he will keep on making. This is true if he gets mag-
netism with his start, otherwise his money will come and go.
But there is a mysterious power, such as is described in the
final work of this club, known as Universal Magnetism, that
when once it is acquired draws and keeps on drawing other
power, and then it is that everything seems to bring luck ;
everything that is started turns out well ; and nothing fails.
All margins are steps toward that mysterious power, if they
are on the right side. It makes no difference what they are,
all that is necessary is that they be on the right side. The man
who spends more than he earns is on the wrong side, and he
will be going away from his good fortune because he has no
drawing magnetic power.
The feeling of confidence is most helpful. The feeling of
satisfaction is founded on something substantial. The feel-
ing of gain as the result of day-by-day work is an inherent
energy that keeps the heart strong and the purpose set to-
wards a steadfast goal. These are powers because they are
margins.
Any habit that can produce a magnetic margin becomes a
power, and each such margin makes the acquisition of others
easier and more to be desired. In the first chapter of this
book there are uses of Sex Magnetism that admit of margins.
In the second and third chapters all the references are on
the darker side of the habits that drive the sexes away from each
other. Every one of those deleterious habits that you can
lessen begins to result in making a magnetic margin. We
will not refer to them here, as they have been amply discussed
there ; but you should know them all. Do not miss one of
them. They all stand in the way of success, and no one of them
can remain if you wish to win where you now lose. Make
MAGNETIC MARGINS 275
a list of them. If you think you are wholly free from them
all you are mistaken ; and if you think there are some of those
faults that you are wholly free from, you should make a deeper
study of their meaning, so that you will not be in error.
Begin to build up magnetic margins out of those
chapters. . „ ..
Then in the use of the senses themselves m an affirmative
way, there are many opportunities to create margins and
gains, all of which will increase your ability to win control
over others. ,
'
, ,.
The real gains begin in great strength under the teachings
of the fourth chapter, where the attractive force is like,
the
earnings that are made from week to week ;
all that is added
over and above what is lost is a magnetic margin. This may
be explained by saying that a person may have a certain
attractive power that counts much in the opinion of others
and that this power may be balanced by faults that detract
seriously from the gains. The difference is always in favour
of the bad side, and this should not be forgotten. While the
principle is the same as in pounds and shillings, the amount
of difference is figured in another way. One little meanness
outweighs a big goodness. If you are brave, and at the risk
of your life should save another person from death, that
would be an act that ought to always count greater in your
favour than all the wrongs you could possibly be guilty ol
but human nature, whether of the wife, or the husband, or
the general pubbc, is built in another mood.
What could be braver and more heroic than the campaign
of Admiral Dewey, especially his entrance into Manila Bay
over the sunken mines of the enemy, as it was supposed, and
into the firing range of the Spanish battleships, carrying war
up to them when victory was necessary to avoid his own
destruction ? He was on the other side of the world, with no
aid at hand, with no base to fall back upon, and no supplies
except what he had on his own boats. The venture was
daring the attack most skilful, and the result will pass down
into history as the one great naval battle of the age Yet,
after he had brought all this glory to his nation, and had been
given a reception the like of which has had no parallel in
modern history, one little act of indiscretion lost him his
276 SEX MAGNETISM
prestige, and he became the butt of ridicule. What was his
indiscretion ? Friends and admirers presented him with a
home absolutely his, and free from all conditions ;
and, to
guard against the financial reverses, such as overwhelmed
General Grant under like circumstances, he had the title placed
in other hands. For this indiscretion, which was entitled to a
bad mark of one-tenth of one per cent, he lost his margin of
999 good marks. Margins of conduct, therefore, must be
carefully protected from losses of goodwill. Wellington, the
hero of Waterloo, who did what all Europe had been trying
in vain to do for many years—end the career of Napoleon
won as high a percentage on the right side, and received the
greatest honours ever paid to mortal being ;
only to be scoffed
and to suffer a revulsion of popularity by so simple a thing
as a vote on taking beer.
Take the case of the husband who had been kind to his
family for all his married life, who had provided well for them
in every way, and who sacrificed himself to make them happy,
yet who, in a moment of indiscretion, kissed the cook on her
birthday. His wife left the home, nevermore to return. Per-
haps she was too hasty, but he had no right to kiss the cook.
Balances of conduct are not made by weighing the grade of
offence and comparing its gravity with the quality of all the
good a man has done. One margin cannot be deducted from
another and the difference be allowed to stand, either on one
side or the other. The dark act is taken as the measure of the
whole man, with the assumption that his better side is largely
pretence.
On the same principle right conduct does not attract
attention, while one bad act will be heralded far and wide.
" Another good man gone wrong " was a saying many years
ago to explain the sudden wickedness of a famous divine.
In a court trial it is allowable, under certain circumstances, to
show by evidence the reputation and long period of honour-
able life of an accused individual to counteract one act of
wrong, and by so doing the law seems directly opposite to
human nature, but as a matter of fact it requires many good
acts to overcome the effect of one bad one, even in law. If a
man has forged a note, and there is doubt as to the testi-
mony, the jury may consider a long life of good behaviour,
MAGNETIC MARGINS 277
showing the difference in the quantity of the margins. But
there seems no other way.
It becomes a question of probabilities.
But this unevenness is not as bad as it would appear on
first face. The test is the nature of the offence. Right living
is always normal living, and wrong acts are always abnormal.
If the latter gives evidence of perfidy or moral turpitude, then
it discloses character that must be behind all the outward
display, just as treason is inexcusable even after a long life
of loyalty. Circumstances sometimes combine in a freakish
way to make a husband or wife appear perfidious when there
is absolutely no guilt at all. The error made is to put the burden
of proof on the accused party. A true husband or wife will
go slow in accepting so damaging a mass of evidence as may
be at hand even when there seems no alternative ;
for there
are cases well established of innocence after the guilt seemed
established beyond all controverting.
Personal conduct varies in its kind.
It may be moral or immoral, ethical or coarse, refined
or boorish, and attractive in beauty or ugly.
A pretty maiden, handsomely dressed, with hair and
adornments at their best, and charms abundant, whose con-
versation is pleasing and manners seemingly good, would drop
suddenly in the estimation of her admirers if she were to be
seen chewing gum, sucking her teeth, or cleaning her nostrils
out with her finger, as some pretty girls are in the habit of
doing when they think no man is watching them.
In such a case there is a large margin on the right side
and a small one on the wrong side, but the latter is intensive,
while the former is extensive. The smaller margin outweighs
the larger one.
Selfish and dishonest margins are not magnetic. Thus the
girl who was heiress to a large estate, and who could not
correctly spell ordinary words in her letters to gentlemen, was
desired as a wife nevertheless. It was a dishonest margin ;
money outweighing a serious fault. An educated man would
have very little liking for an ignorant girl ; and the desire to
marry her for her money is but a willingness to earn it.
With an understanding that perfidy or treason to wedlock
is generally unpardonable, all other offences may be put in
278 SEX MAGNETISM
the scales against the good side of a person, and the margin
will be considered in the light of both views. A woman who
has been well-treated by her husband will let that balance
his boorish ways, but there will be no magnetism, and nothing
but tolerance, which is unpleasant.
All persons are earnestly advised to master the teachings of
the fourth chapter, for thereby the attractive force is acquired,
and the errors and failings that detract from them are reduced
to a minimum. All margins made therein are magnetic.
In the fifth chapter the sex influences become the basis
for further margins ; and then comes the sixth chapter with
some guiding principles that add still more gain to the progress
already underway. The next step is to cultivate the heart
interests of the seventh chapter and add more margins. In
the next two chapters great care has been bestowed upon
the five magnetic laws that apply particularly to this study.
We come now to
THE GREAT LAW OF SEX MARGIN
The expenditures of vitality must be less than the income.
By taking the earnings of money and the uses made of it as
the simile, it will be found that the principles remain the same.
There should be a greater income of vitality than expenditure,
just as there should be a greater income of earnings than
expenses of living. In other words, a person should live
within his income. Earn more than you spend. We find our-
selves face to face with the question of physical and nervous
vitality. Countless examples may be gathered all along the
line.
There is no better illustration of the margin in vitality
than that seen in the uses of the appetite. A person who is
hungry has that much advantage over one who has no keen
desire for something to eat and will digest and assimilate the
food that much better. If you sit down at the table hungry
you will draw into your system the nutrition from the food ;
whereas, if you are not hungry, the food will be of less value
as nourishment. Then, starting hungry and keeping hungry
all through the meal, you will have the same advantage ;
the margin being helpful to you all the time. As appetite
MAGNETIC MARGINS 279
and magnetism go together, it is important that you learn to
come to a meal hungry, remain hungry all through the time
of eating, and then arise from the table hungry. By this is
not meant that you are not to eat all you need ; but you
must not destroy the entire hunger at the table.
If you are starving, your hunger is placed at one hundred
per cent.
If you are very hungry, your margin may be placed at
fifty per cent.
But suppose it is a case of great hunger, but not enough to
bring on neuralgic headache, which is evidence of too long a
period of not eating, or else an insufficient breakfast, or loss
of vitality in some way which should be avoided ;
suppose
you are hungry enough to be ranked forty per cent, and
that this is the case at the beginning of every meal ;
then, as
you eat on half through the meal, you will have reduced the
margin to twenty per cent. When you are nearly through,
the hunger is only fifteen per cent ; and as you are done,
you arise from the table ten per cent hungry. This means
that nine-tenths of all your demands have been complied
with, and one-tenth left open. You will go away still a little
hungry.
This is a magnetic margin.
Why ?
Because you have not surfeited, nor even filled up.
A filled-up person is never at the highest vital point, for
the body has no working margin.
Take the case of the steam boiler ; fill it full of water and
set it to boiling ; how much power will be generated ? None,
for there is no margin left in the boiler in which the steam
may be formed. If you have too little water you will have
too much margin and the power will be excessive. It is in
such excess that boilers blow up. But in human beings the
greater the resistance that accompanies the margin, the more
vitality may be created.
As fuel in the body is the physical cause of all life and
vitality within it, so the surfeiting or over-feeding of fuel will
make it impossible to generate the proper degree of energy. A
person arising from a meal is taking away with him the source
of his vital powers. He may be in one of three conditions :
280 SEX MAGNETISM
1 . Just filled, which means that he has fully met the desires
of his appetite.
2. Surfeited or stuffed, which means that he has over-eaten.
3. Underfilled, which means that he has eaten less than his
appetite demanded, and that he has a margin of hunger as
the basis for the next meal.
There has never been a magnetic person who ever lived,
or who lives to-day, and there will never be one who will live
in the future, who has been, or will be, addicted to the habit
of stuffing ; for gluttony does not permit of magnetism. It
is constantly lowering the health and vitality of the body.
Some degree of magnetism may be generated in those who
fill themselves to the capacity of their appetites ; but experi-
ment and tests in countless numbers show that the man or
woman who cultivates magnetism is the one who has a margin
of hunger at the end of every meal. This means that you
ought to get up from the table hungry. It is not necessary
to be very hungry, but to have a slight desire for something
more. Yet how many thousands are full long before they
stop eating, and still keep on after they have again added
what they did not need ; and then there is some extra dish
to be taken at the end.
Try the better way.
It is very easy to study this margin, for it will soon be
realized. Persons who try to analyze themselves soon are able
to fix some percentage to their hunger, both before sitting
down and on getting up. So small a margin as one per cent
serves a good purpose in keeping the vitality high. It is
attended by the development of some magnetism.
A man at the switchboard does not have to run out on
the railway lines and take hold of the great levers and throw
the switches ; that would be hard work, and would keep him on
the run much of the time. All he needs to do is to stay where
he is, make a slight move here, another there, and so control
the movements of giant engines and massive trains as they
rush on.
It has been supposed that personal magnetism was culti-
vated by physical exercises only. While there are some nerve
exercises in the foundation book, they are but a part of the
whole training ;
and, after that work has been taken, the
MAGNETIC MARGINS 281
methods of further developing magnetism are those of habits.
You touch this key, and there are results that are quite different
from what they would be had the other track been taken.
Life may be switched to any one of a hundred or more tracks.
Your mind and will-power will be at the switchboard, and
your conduct will obey your fixed determination to do one
thing or another.
One habit destroys magnetism, while another habit develops
it. One course of conduct is unfavourable, and another is
highly favourable. It depends on how you shift the switches.
But you need not go out on the lines and there work with
muscles to effect the change. It is done at the switchboard
of the will-power.
Before there ever were any training courses in the cultiva-
tion of personal magnetism there had been for centuries and
centuries, and thousands of years, men and women who were
naturally gifted with this power ; not because they had them-
selves studied it, but because they had by chance fallen into
those habits that tend to develop the gift.
At length such people were separated by observers from all
other people, and the difference in their habits were noted.
This difference was supposed to be the explanation of the
problem why some persons exercise great magnetic control
over others, and some people are swayed at will, seemingly
having no resistance.
It was found unmistakably to be due to their personal habits.
As one of these habits, it was known that men and women
who were gifted with personal magnetism were not gluttons ;
nor did they overeat. On the contrary, they seemed to limit
their meals, to eat up to a certain point, and then to stop.
This habit became fixed in their lives. To prove that there was
a margin, they were sometimes induced to add something extra
after they were through, and they continued eating more
food, as where some special dish had been prepared, and the
host pretended that there would be offence given by not par-
taking of it. No discomfort was experienced after this added
course. In one case a man formed the habit of eating more
than he had been accustomed to, and he fell back in his mag-
netism perceptibly. Many experiments were made during a
period of years to test the genuineness of the theory that habit
282 SEX MAGNETISM
made magnetism., and that it was due to nothing else but
habits, when it was naturally possessed.
The mind will not work well on a crowded stomach, because
it has not the nervous surplus of vitality needed to give it
power. Magnetism is largely nervous vitality, and follows the
same rule.
Just try this plan of eating. Rise from each meal not quite
satisfied. The stomach will make greater use of the food it
has taken than it otherwise would, and more of it will be turned
into nutrition on that account.
The avoidance of causing pain to the stomach and digestive
membrane by eating indigestible food will be necessary ; but
when this is accomplished then the diminished quantity of
food taken at each meal will aid digestion, and tend to bring
on a state of remarkable health both of the nerves and the
brain, as well as the organic structure of the body, from which
all forms of vitality proceed. It is worth the experiment. You
will feel better than you have ever felt before in all your life.
The difference will be so great that you will wonder why it
has escaped your attention before to adopt this habit. If to
this you add the still grander habit of ingestion, then there is
nothing more to be sought in the health line except food selec-
tion and the new era of cooking, both of which have been fully
discussed in this work.
It has always been known as a principle of personal magnet-
ism that this power is associated with the energy of the nerves
and the general use of the mind and body. It has always been
known that every normal man and woman generates personal
magnetism in greater or less amount every day.
It is now known that what comes in goes right out in most
cases. When the expenditure is greater than the income, life
begins to droop, there is nervous prostration and loss of vitality
and energy. That this is due to the extra expenditure over the
income has been proved by the cultivation of personal magnet-
ism as a cure for neurasthenia, or nervous prostration. When
trips abroad have failed, when the baths have failed, when
change of scenery and all sorts of influences have been brought
to bear on the health of the invalid, after medicines and treat-
ments of every kind have proved powerless, the developing
course, as taught in the foundation book in the cultivation of
MAGNETIC MARGINS 283
personal magnetism, has brought about a speedy and per-
manent cure ; not once or twice, but in thousands of cases,
during the past twenty-five years. One doctor, a great expert in
nervous disorders and diseases, said he was sure that this
course would never fail to effect a cure, as he had watched its
results in many of his own cases.
Thus the close relation between vitality and personal
magnetism may be seen. It develops a great fund of vital
energy. It supplies that which has been lost. It adds to what
is on hand. And, strangest of all facts, it depends on the
margins for doing its work in certain lines of progress.
Take the case of the runner who desires to win the race.
He has a certain percentage of vitality on hand to begin with.
If he runs that all out, as most runners do who are inexperi-
enced, he will not be able to endure the strain of a long race.
Even in sprints for short distances the runners hold back
some vitality. But in the long contest it is necessary to let
out all that can be spared, while keeping in stock a sufficient
proportion to feed the body, so that it may continue to generate
more. It is a double law. If there is none left, there is no
basis for creating what will be needed. A margin of fire is
required to keep alive the energy, and to give rise to more.
In all contests this law remains true.
There is the exercise of power in muscle, nerve, and mind,
and the tendency to let it all out is a common one. The child
is not given power enough to overdo, and its over-zeal is never
great enough to tax its strength, although its muscles become
weary after a while. But it has, in most cases, a much greater
vital fund than it has ability to employ the same to the limit.
This is due to the intention of nature to keep the child growing
until it has built a mature frame. After that its excess of
vitality is gradually lessened until, at the approach of old age,
it is not enough to sustain any great effort without danger to
the heart.
Thus, in a healthy growing body of a child, nature makes
her own margin, and sustains it for years after that period.
Could the young man and young woman in the twenties be
taught then to take up the excess of vitality where nature let
it slip out of her control, a different fate would await the
race.
284 SEX MAGNETISM
But it is only the normal young man and young woman that
is given this excess of vitality. When the child has come up
out of the vicissitudes of infancy, and the first ten years follow-
ing it has lost much of its physical and nervous vigour because
of a bad diet in the home, the methods of living are far from
right there. But nature has been making heroic efforts to
pull it through, although one-half, or five hundred thousand
children out of every million, never grow up. Death is the
reward of an ignorant diet and errors of living. Parents
charge this fearful percentage of deaths to the will of a higher
power, when it is due always and wholly to their stupidity in
the first place, no matter how hard they try to save the sick
offspring. They never tried to prevent its illness.
But, assuming that the boy has begun to grow into young
manhood, and the girl is on the threshold of young womanhood,
then arises the question of natural vitality and normal con-
ditions in all respects. If the vitality then is below the normal,
the future is bound to be doubtful, as far as magnetism is
concerned. It will rarely come as a gift. But it may almost
always be acquired, and when acquired is more useful than if
it were a gift, for it is given intelligent direction at all times.
In this work there is no space that can be devoted to the
consideration of the general rules of health, or the moral con-
duct of the boy and the girl. The important point is that
which attends the generation and expenditure of that quality
which is the distinguishing feature of sex life. It begins with
puberty, and endures for many years, being male and female.
In the remaining pages of this chapter it will be called
" quality " in quotations when that word means the sex nature
of one or the other of the sexes.
This peculiar power is not vitality, but is created, in part,
by the vitality of the body and nerves, and reduces that
vitality as it is itself used. It rises with the energy of the
nervous system, and falls as that is decreased. It buoys up that
energy, and it also takes it down. It is thus a two-sided power,
being dependent on the very life that it saps and that supports
it.
Before it appears in any individual it is preceded by the
vitality it requires for its own existence, but is not a part of
that vitality, except as the energy of the plant is a part of the
MAGNETIC MARGINS 285
sunlight on which it thrives. After it has had its day and its
life has run down, human existence pales and begins to fade
with it, but may continue for decades after it has gone, and
that is second childhood. Thus there is truth in the name, for
the first childhood preceded the dawn of this power, while the
second childhood never appears until it has departed. It seems
that without it the mind is of the childish timber.
What is known as " quality " never comes into life, either
male or female, until puberty is well established ;
but it need
never go out of life even to make way for second childhood.
The coming of the latter condition is, therefore, the result of the
waste of " quality " during its years of existence.
This brings us to the threshold of a new and greater law
than any we have yet undertaken to explain in this work.
Before it is brought directly before the student it is neces-
sary to have the relation of natural processes made clear in
the development of all forms of magnetism ; because the claim
is often made by ignorant persons, or those who have not
probed deep enough into the subject, that magnetism when
taught is dependent on exercises.
The fact is that magnetism is an inherent power, and all
that any exercises can do is to call it into activity or release it.
The small ball of snow at the top of the hill may not be able to
start itself, but a very little hand may set it going, and it will
then proceed of its own energy, aided by the gravity that is in
it and that is in the earth, to gather size and weight until it
becomes a mass to be feared.
If a person is known to be magnetic, as all persons are, and
is losing the fund of power that gathers daily, and this loss is
due to faults of living that may be driven out by attention to
them ; that is not exercise, but a natural aid to the inherent
force born and grown up in every man and woman. But if
there are leakages in all persons' vitality that make the accumu-
lation of magnetism impossible, then if those leakages can
be stopped by exercises and in no other way, it is the duty of
all persons who wish to become acquainted with their own
powers to check the losses in any effectual manner that will
accomplish such end ;
just as the water system of a great city
cannot do its best work when there are thousands of weak pipes
leaking water in all parts of the system. The man who has the
286 SEX MAGNETISM
most intelligence is the one who will see the necessity of ending
losses.
This rule applies to life in all forms.
It is a rule of business, of health, of government and of war
as well as peace. If all persons saved what they lost they
would have very little worry about being rich. The first thing
to do in the management of home, of the expenses of the table,
of the conduct of the office, of every branch of work, business
or government, is to look for leakages, and the stopping of
them is the beginning of a new era of prosperity.
Then, if it is possible to store away personal magnetism by
direct exercises that are in accord with the laws of nature, this
should be done. All these things constitute the foundation
work of this Club, as taught in the first book, which is known
as the developing course.
When the fact is discovered in magnetic studies that all
persons are subject to the feeling on the one hand of seventy-
six emotions, and may learn on the other hand to express them
through certain exercises in practising their increased use, so
that in time any person may, by the law of sensitiveness,
receive at once from any other person far or near the exact
mood that person may be in ; then deception becomes im-
possible and the pretender must go. Assumed feelings, or acted
emotions, have no power to conceal what is within the heart.
Politeness, fair promises, nice language, and all the methods
by which men and women try to make themselves appear more
friendly than they are, will be useless covers for their genuine
feelings. The world would then, if this culture were universal,
find it impossible to cheat, to pretend, to deceive, to mislead,
to cajole, to win falsely, to tempt, to subdue, to take any
advantage, or otherwise harm or defraud another ; and every
man and woman who goes into such study will reap the gains
that the general public may not secure. Some day, however,
it is predicted, the use of emotional magnetism will be generally
taught and practised, which would mean the end of crime and
of wrong-doing.
All these things are taught in Advanced Magnetism ; but
the only exercises are those that develop the power to feel, to
receive and to express the moods and emotions that make up
human life. All else is the natural unfolding of the methods
MAGNETIC MARGINS 287
of near control and distant control, which are inborn in every
person, but are lost in the leakage of life through certain habits
of carelessness and lack of knowledge.
In a similar way the very different course of magnetic
training, Mental Magnetism, proceeds. It deals with the
multitudinous uses of thought instead of feeling, and proceeds
to the greatest possible results, the benefits of which are so
great that no person can fail to gain vastly by the instruction.
But the present work on Sex Magnetism does not build its
results on exercises any more than the works just referred to,
all of which make up an interwoven system of educational
training along magnetic lines.
The summing up of this study may be made as follows :
1. All leakages and losses must be stopped.
2. All power held in check must be released without losses
or waste of expenditure.
3. The various forms of leakages must be ascertained, and
each in its natural use must be turned into a fund of supply.
4. Artificial power cannot in any way be employed, any
more than a substitute can be found for the sunshine's nurture
of plants, or the current of electricity's energy can be duplicated
in the power-house.
5. Man to-day in his development of personal magnetism
stands where he does in his development of electricity for
commercial and mechanical uses ; the energy is nature's, but
man is finding out how to use it and to become its master. Two
generations ago the world would have laughed at the idea of a
trolley car, an electric fight, a telephone, and the wonderful
accumulation of inventions that have accrued to civilization
because more knowledge of electricity has been acquired since
that time. And what electricity is to the mechanical world
personal magnetism is to the human heart, mind and body.
Life is most complex.
Yet it all comes from the sun in some form or other.
The purposes of life are not fully understood to-day, but
magnetism is unfolding them little by little.
For each stage in human existence there is a condition and
a power suited to the life as it is unfolded, ever shifting as some
new stage is entered upon. These sections of the span of
existence are as follows :
288 SEX MAGNETISM
1. First childhood.
2. The end of childhood as the impulses of the young man
and the young woman make themselves felt in the body.
3. The development of " quality."
4. The impulse of parentage.
5. The weakening of " quality."
6. The appearance of second childhood.
7. The period of waiting for the end.
One of the saddest of contemplations is the too oft-expressed
belief that humanity is created solely or principally to re-
produce its kind, and that each generation is merely a link in a
chain, the end of which is too remote for our enjoyment of its
achievements. In almost, if not all, other species the perpetuity
of the kind seems to be the only reason why any one of them
exists. Parents are continually giving birth to children, and
the children are in turn becoming parents, proceeding from one
link to another blindly and without any other visible motive.
Centuries, thousands of years, if not millions, may elapse
before the goal is reached, and it may be as different from what
is now expected as the present age is different from that of
the prehistoric man.
This view is not even philosophical.
It is true that every individual in any species, if normal,
is but a link in the chain of reproduction. But it does not
follow that this is all that such individual is created for. Of
course, there must be wants supplied, as food, clothing, shelter
and comforts, as well as enjoyment, but these are supposed to
be merely incidents of the main purpose of reproduction. It
has been argued that if life is made too dull or too uncomfort-
able, people as they become civilized will take matters in their
own hands and give up the battle. The moment you satisfy an
intelligent person that there is nothing in life but playing as a
tool in the hands of nature, and that after this is over nothing
follows, then that person is pretty sure to become a bad citizen,
and to seek existence only so long as it can be enjoyed, after
which the end will be brought about.
But the reply to this claim is that a normal mind is satisfied
that there is another life after this, and that immortality
awaits all who wish it, while annihilation is the fate of all who
do not desire immortality by their decision made in this world.
MAGNETIC MARGINS 289
This is the test of a thoroughly sane mind. Any other view
indicates present or inherent mental defect. No normal person
will ever think of self-destruction. It is not the weight of woes
and disappointments that break down the desire to live ;
for
in the darkest ages millions of men and women suffered torture,
lived in underground passsages and were subjected to all the
agonies that superior force could inflict on them, and this for
many centuries in the name of Christianity, during which
period there were practically no suicides among them. To-day,
in the light of modern comforts, what poverty suffers now
would have been regarded as palatial luxury by those former
people ;
yet to-day suicides are increasing at a fearful rate.
Civilization has grown faster than the vitality of the mind
that participates in it. We stand in this era at the very door
of a new earth, and the progress that has been going on for
countless ages is not far from its culmination to-day. A recent
article presents the following account as upheld by the most
learned men of to-day :
" The total of the geologic periods of the earth is calculated
by such an eminent authority as Professor Ward, of Brown
University, to be about 72,000,000 years. Man, however, has
existed, according to the best evidence, for about 250,000 years,
but has only been of a sufficiently high order of intelligence
and really alive mentally to his opportunities for about 5,000
years. His work, however, has been largely done within the
last 3,000 years, and so it is plain that comparatively he has
just commenced his existence. His growth has been rapid, and
within the past 500 years great strides in intellectual achieve-
ment have been made. The secrets of nature and science have
been fearlessly attacked and ruthlessly solved, and yet man is
only on the threshold of his career. Saint Simon, the eminent
French writer, said '
man's golden age is before him, not behind
him,' and what man will achieve in the future no one can
predict. The mystic forces of air, electricity, steam and flying
mechanism are being utilized, and as the door of invention
opens to revealed secrets it but shows other doors farther down
the pathway of research, awaiting the crowbar or the key of the
coming scientist. What the years have in store for us no one
can tell, but that the past, brimful of achievement as it has
been, has exhausted the possibilities of invention and discovery
19
290 SEX MAGNETISM
no one will believe. And so facing greater revelations of
scientific knowledge and greater insight into the world of
mystery that surrounds us, we can well await with interest and,
indeed, with a measure of awe, further investigations into the
wonders yet unknown to us, but which are destined to become
a part of our cosmic knowledge."
Here, then, are two views of the place of humanity in the
range of progress that extends from the dim past into the
present hopes of the immediate future.
One makes man an animal.
The other makes him the climax of earth.
If he is no more than an animal, his part in the progressive
march of life on this globe is only to be one of millions of
connecting links, and his chief office is to do his share in re-
producing the race so that it will not die out and end that
progress.
Of all the species that have been created, the human is
the only one that possesses what is called in this chapter
" quality." In all else it is merely impulse, which, being used,
ends itself, until a new impulse comes to take its place. There
is no magnetism present.
Taking the optimistic view of life, we find that the purpose
of everything is advancement. Earth is advancing because the
human race is going forward, and this era is one of climax.
The human race cannot go forward except as its individual
members improve themselves, and this is done by the energy
shown in sex attraction. In the first chapters of the present
work this attraction has been fully explained. By analysis
it resolves itself down to a simple focus which is herein termed
" quality."
As long as " quality " can be maintained, then there will
remain the attractive force that impels one sex to so respect the
other that the best side of existence is always turned
toward each other. This means that the conditions of marriage
and of home life will be improving all the time, and that the
advancement of the world is only the sum total of its individual
progress.
Marriage as it exists to-day in great part is but the dumping
ground of animalism. Where it has been elevated to something
better there has gone forth from it an influence that has been
MAGNETIC MARGINS 291
felt through its radial magnetism far and wide. The animalism
of marriage follows the loss of " quality." It was not present
in the better days of courtship, when the maiden was worthy
of the English Beauty roses, the chocolates, and the
delicious attentions that were upheld because there was
" quality " urging them on to a display of their better natures.
Then the girl was at her best, and the man was at his best. If
all the world could remain as this couple once was, what a change
would come over the human heart
There are seven ages to the two sexes.
They have been stated in a previous page. The first is
childhood. Here the boy and the girl should be raised as
differently as their opposite natures demand. The boy should
not be surrounded with the same influences as the girl. His
toys, his plays, his interests should be of the boy's kind, and
should be made distinct all the time he is passing through the
years between infancy and young manhood. There are
exercises for him that are called forth in a natural manner by
his methods of play and the kind of tools and toys that are
given him. He should be made to think as a boy and of some
day being a man. He may be controlled for a lifetime by the
teachings his mother or father gives him in these years of
plastic youth.
The girl should be given her separate toys and work, her
mental, heart and physical interests, all different from the lad.
As she grows she should not be made weak and delicate in the
supposition that it is feminine to be so ; but her body should
receive full growth in all its parts and be developed for strength
and endurance in those functions that will some day appear ;
the foundation of which should be built years before that era.
Diet, fresh air and activity of as varied a kind as possible
should receive attention. Many little girls are sickly because
their food is not balanced ;
they are allowed to eat one line to
the exclusion of other kinds. This brings on thin blood,
deranged nervous system, and weak heads. They are unfit for
the vocation of fife. In fact, there are not three girls in a
hundred who are in their teens to-day that are really qualified
to enter wedlock, if we seek them among the middle and higher
classes.
Surface conditions are not enough.
292 SEX MAGNETISM
The greater the mental variety in the first years of any
child's life the sounder the mind will be made. Erratic natures
and temperaments may be thus avoided. The three rules
that make the well-developed young man and young woman
are :
1. The interests that excite and absorb the mental attention
should be of the widest variety suited to the infant's and young
child's life.
2. There should be every variation of physical activity, and
as much of it as possible should occur in the fresh air.
3. The diet should be balanced so as to provide an all-round
support to the body and all its operations and bring into
perfect condition every part and every organ. Lack of a
balanced diet results in the misfortunes and maladies that are
peculiar to youth and the years that follow.
It requires but little study and but little attention to these
matters to change the whole course of a child's life.
The second stage of sex growth is that period between the
premonition of coming puberty and the development of
" quality." In the first years of that period it may or may not
be possible for the boy or girl to enter parentage ;
but, if so,
there will be none of the " quality " that makes Sex Magnetism.
This second stage may begin on an average about the tenth or
eleventh year ; sometimes before, and oftener later than that
time. It generally ends in the fifteenth or sixteenth year, when
" quality " is established. The fitness for parentage is merely a
physical condition. A girl who is deeply in love before she is
fifteen is a rare exception ; but sixteen marks the birth of what
is called the first fancy, and it is a very severe disappointment if
its object fails to respond to it. The boy has about the same
experience and at about the same time in his career.
It has been shown in the physiology of both sexes that a
girl or boy may become a parent two or more years before there
is any feeling such as is called love. Thus there are instances of
a girl becoming a mother as young as nine years of age ; and in
the Southern States of America it is not a very rare case for a
girl eleven to thirteen to become a mother. Yet in all such
occurrences love has never been felt, and what is called
" quality " is wholly absent. Boys have been married as young
as twelve, and some have become fathers when they were not
MAGNETIC MARGINS 293
yet thirteen years of age ; but love, so-called, has been wholly
apart from their minds or hearts.
This, then, is the second stage of sex life ;
coming between
the first premonitions of puberty and the development of
"quality."
The third stage includes the many years, more or less
extended, when " quality " is present as a potent force in the
life of a man or woman. This will be discussed in the present
chapter.
The fourth stage is included in the third. It is that in which
the impulse of parentage is present. Most men in their younger
years do not like children, and young husbands desire to avoid
having them born. Even after they have come as unwelcome
guests, the father-love is not then like the mother-love, nor like
the father-love as it develops when the man is out of his teens
or out of his twenties. It is when the contemplation of loneli-
ness in old age brings the desire for a new generation growing
up to take the place of others who have passed before or who
will eventually, in the averages of nature, be out of the arena of
existence, that the man feels the impulse of parentage. At first
he rejects the idea through his own selfishness, and then he is
swayed by the longing for companionship in the later years of
life.
But nature helps him out of his dilemma, as she has an
abundance of tricks by which children are given him whether
he wants them or not. Some come too early and others too late
for his full enjoyment of their social characteristics. It is a
peculiar phase of man's disposition that he is not only willing,
but is even eager, to have the unborn babe destroyed ; and he
does this under the pretence that his wife's health demands it.
When he is in his teens or twenties this disposition is the
strongest ; but it gradually weakens as he advances towards
the forties, often becoming just as strong in the opposite direc-
tion, for at the later period of his mature life he feels the long-
ing for children. This characteristic should argue in favour of
late marriages for men, or in favour of women delaying wedlock
with men who are not eager for children.
When the child is unwelcome by both father and mother its
life is morbid, and the world is full of people who, when it was
known that they were in prospect, caused bitterness of feeling
294 SEX MAGNETISM
and often quarrels between their parents. For the benefit of
the race and in the interests of healthful minds in true men
and women for the next generation, marriage should be founded
upon a mutual desire for offspring ; and should be delayed until
such desire is apparent. All other marriages are extra-natural
they need not take place. There is not one reason why they
should be encouraged. If one or the other of the couple is un-
able for physical reasons to become a parent, then both should
understand that fact and, if they are already wed, they should
resolve to be true to their vows as long as they live. But if they
are not yet married, and have knowledge of their condition, the
unction should be avoided.
Yet the marrying of such persons is of less importance than
the choking off of children for selfish reasons. The unborn child
should be wanted ; not merely tolerated, but really and earn-
estly desired, and for months before its coming. In order to
bring about this blessed welcome, several things should occur :
1. There should be ability on the part of both parties to
maintain the state of matrimony, not only for a few years, but
for a long period of existence in health and happiness.
2. There should be a home in which the child is to be born
and reared ; not a tenement, nor a flat, nor a boarding-house,
nor a hotel ; but a real home where the family may dwell for
many years.
3. There should be an affirmative eagerness on the part of
the mother for the coming of a child.
4. The father should want offspring and should act deliber-
ately in the matter.
5. The child, wanted and hoped for by two parents who are
happy with each other, and in a home where the institutions of
domestic life and of child life may be firmly established and
maintained for an indefinite period, should be the central
influence around which all that part of the world revolves.
6. In these combinations there will be a new earth.
The young woman in her teens rarely ever wants to become a
mother. Some are willing, and once in a while there may be
one who is eager ; but it is not the usual experience, especially
to-day. In the early twenties the desire of motherhood becomes
a half negative ; that is, the wife does not care much either
way ;
but in the late twenties and early thirties the normal
MAGNETIC MARGINS 295
woman wants to bear children. Then the impulse of parentage
is keenest. It is generally true that a woman who is past
thirty when she gets married will want to begin at once to
raise a family, and the lack of it will be the non-desire of the
husband.
There is every reason why parentage should be delayed until
the parents, or one of them, shall have passed thirty years of
age. In the younger years the children will be neglected be-
cause of the immature judgment of the parents ;
they will not
thrive as well, and death will mow them down in greater num-
bers. Of all the deaths of babes, and children, numbering half
a million in every million, it appears from statistics that ninety-
two per cent of the fatalities of this kind come to the offspring
of parents who were under thirty years of age when parentage
began ; and most of them under twenty-five years of age. Less
than eight per cent occurred among the children of parents who
were over thirty years of age when they were born.
This fact shows that young parents either do not know how
to take care of human life, or that they do not have the same
eager desire to do so. Mothers who were in their teens when
their babes died have not shown the grief that is present when
mothers are in the twenties and lose children ; but the most
intense suffering comes when the mothers are in the thirties at
the time their first-born come into the world and afterwards
die. This proves that mother-love is coincident with the
impulse of parentage. If child-bearing can be delayed until one
parent at least is past thirty, then the children will be more
loved, will be welcomed with greater zeal, will be protected in
health to a much greater extent, and will have the influence of
mature minds to look after them in their infancy and as they
grow up. They will not be left at any time to look after them-
selves. There will be no more of them than the home can
maintain and everybody will be the better for this increase of
safety to child and wholesomeness to the home.
The world will always be divided into two classes :
1. The served.
2. The servers.
The served will be found eventually among those who deal
with the marriage problem as it must needs be dealt with, so
that permanence of the union may be guaranteed, and the best
296 SEX MAGNETISM
care given to the bearing and the rearing of children. They
will of necessity be the served class. They will be masters of
themselves and, therefore, will be entitled by nature to be
masters of mankind.
The servers will be found among all others. They have no
control of themselves, cannot control marriage, or parentage,
or the raising of their children ; and the most they do is to
take things as they come, find fault with their ill-fortune, let
matters shape themselves as they will, getting what low grade
pleasure they can out of life, and being willing to work for hire
to others who are their superiors. Their children will come at
all ages and die at all ages.
The test of superiority is a simple one : Whoever is able to
control himself is the greater person when compared with one
who is controlled by circumstances. Entering wedlock in the
teens or in the twenties is not self-control, unless a good reason
can be shown for marrying at that time. Raising children when
the parents are in the teens or twenties, and when they are not
best prepared for their coming, is not control, but is being
swayed by circumstances.
The age of parental impulse is the late twenties down to the
early forties ; and it is in this age that children should be
brought into the world, and marriage should take place.
Reasons count up fast when both sides are examined, and all
the reasons favouring marriage and parentage concur in the
period stated ; while there is every reason why an earlier
period should be avoided.
All these matters are part of home life, of marriage and of
Sex Magnetism. They cannot be separated from each other.
The fifth stage of sex life is that which is known as the weak-
ening of " quality." It will be discussed a few pages later on.
The sixth stage, or the appearance of second childhood, in
which all " quality " is lost, is the natural reversion of nature to
the conditions that existed before puberty dawned. It shows
that parentage is the purpose of earthly life, but it does not
show that it is alone the goal.
In the seventh stage of sex life the old wife and the old
husband are merely waiting to die. That is the whole fact, the
truth as they know it and feel it. The fact is not a pleasant
one, and the only power that saves them from agonizing suffer-
MAGNETIC MARGINS 297
ing is the hope that is held out by religion. Nothing exists for
nothing. There is a reason for every wish that ever entered
the human heart, and the desire to live only for making better
preparations for another life is born of the uselessness that
seems to loom up like a dark mountain in this life. When the
mind is healthy there is hope leaping from hope all through the
years that follow youth down to the last hour of earth.
The pith of life is in the third stage, or that which witnesses
the existence of " quality," beginning when puberty has been
under way for a few years, and lasting until it weakens prior
to the appearance of second childhood.
This is not only the pith of life, but it is that part which,
above all other years, is most worth living. It is that part
which carries in itself all the possibilities for that exalted state
of happiness that crowns the fondest yearnings of heart or
mind. All that precedes it is a blind following of events ;
and
all that succeeds it is the settling down of nature prior to the
payment back to mother earth of the clay that was borrowed
in order that one frame might exist for its brief span.
Long months before this " quality " entered the life of the
young man or woman, then a boy or girl, it gave some idea of
what it was like. It made the boy stop and think. He knew
not what was taking place within him, but he felt a delicious
sense of something that was in store for him in the distant
future. He had " day dreams," and young as he was, there were
periods of " brown study " when in the creeping hours of even-
ing and oft in the twilight he communed with the mystery of
that future to try to catch a glimpse of its meaning.
To him a woman's form was a thing of wonder. It made no
difference who the woman was, or how she looked ; as a generic
being she was most marvellous. No girl attracted him, but the
female sex astonished him. Then came the finer sensations of
sweet friendship, apart from physical association. Many men
of after-lives of sensuality have said, as did one of their number
when this part of their youth was brought up for analysis : "I
have seen the world and have been as bad as a man is expected
to be. When I was eighteen years of age I joined what I
was told was a literary society of young men ; but it was only
a band of fellows bent on hunting women for immoral purposes.
We let young girls alone ; but found women in plenty. In fact
298 SEX MAGNETISM
they were thrown at us, and as one of us said, they were liter-
ally handed out to us, giving the club a reason for calling itself
a literary association. What I want to say is something
different. I was in love with a girl when I was seventeen, and
she was about a year younger. For a year I courted her and
wrote her love letters in floods. I did love her to distraction,
and she loved me. As I was well fixed, her mother wanted me
to marry her. I was allowed to go anywhere with her and to sit
up with her until midnight any night I chose. Well, the point
is this : In all that time, and with all those chances for getting
at her, I never even kissed her once. Never held her hand, and
never had my arm around her waist. I sat with her for hours
and talked and blushed and she talked and blushed, and I am
now glad that I had not the slightest desire to wrong her. Had
I waited a year later things would have been different ; but we
parted, I to go to the bad and she to find a husband ten years
afterwards, and a happy home. I believe she was just as good
a girl then as when I knew her."
It is true that what is called " quality " does not appear with
puberty. The latter is the power of parentage, and is wholly
physical ; while " quality " is sex respect accompanied by Sex
Magnetism.
A triangular condition of human nature thus is made to
appear. There may be parentage before there is the feeling of
love ;
and there may be the feeling of love before there is the
birth of sensualism.
It seems that the power of propagation in both sexes comes
first ;
then after that is born, there comes " quality "
; and the
animal nature, which is sensual, is the third to develop. Except
where a young man or woman is a monstrosity, there is no case
on record where the sensual nature has been coextensive with
the dawn of puberty, or the power of propagation. The strong
fact is that the physical power precedes " quality," and this
comes between the physical and the sensual, if the latter is to
appear at all.
From what has been said thus far, it might be inferred that
" quality " and love were identical. They are not ; but the first
fancy and " quality " come together, showing that they are
separable from the power of propagation and the sensual nature.
The lower species, as the horse, the cow, the dog, the cat, and
MAGNETIC MARGINS 299
others below man, have only the first of these three natures :
the power of propagation. They have none of the sensual, and
" quality " is unknown to their kind.
It is likewise absent in certain human grades.
In logical order, it is true that " quality " must be founded
on the power to propagate, and that the sensual must be founded
on " quality." The last two are not born together, as the
sensual is the final of the three natures. It is a perverted
mood, such as would be dealt with in such a training
course as Advanced Magnetism.
Every bright mood has its dark mood. Every bright
emotion has its dark emotion. There is summer balanced by
winter. There is day balanced by night. There is light and
darkness. There is love opposed by hate. There is warmth
opposed by cold. There is fire opposed by ice. There is
comedy opposed by tragedy. There is hope opposed by
despair ; and everything that is beautiful has its ugly enemy.
Life is made up of wickedness and honesty, of crime and
right dealings, and it is no surprise to find the respect of the
opposite sex tainted by a misuse of its offerings.
" Quality " is seen now as the middle ground between the
birth of a power and the misuse of that power. It is the off-
spring of the power itself, and runs away with itself when it is
misused. In proportion as it is abused, it takes away all that
is sacred and beautiful in this world and substitutes nothing in
its place. Yet it is the oldest of all sins. It began when
human nature was lifted up out of the animal realm and placed
on the highest pedestal in life. Since then it was the
dominating influence in civilization. Among savages it is
not a leading trait. Among beasts it disappears altogether,
serving only the needs of reproduction. But as the brain
and heart are given wider scope in existence, and freedom
prevails, there comes this awful tide of wickedness to stain
all that is noble in tne breast of man.
It is the one chief sin of the Old Testament. It was the
high crime of Greece and Rome ; and if you will enter the
private museum which contains the pictures taken from the
ruins of Pompeii, you will see that it was the prevailing spirit of
that once mighty city. All men and women worshipped at
the same shrine. In every country on the globe to-day where
300 SEX MAGNETISM
there is freedom and civilization combined, this sin outbalances
all others. A physician said recently in a scientific meeting,
in which this trait of human nature was being discussed :
" I
am not overdrawing the truth when I say that there are at this
very moment while I am addressing you no less than one
million persons committing this deed as a criminal act, outside
of matrimony and beyond the pale of honour."
If there were one million people so sinning at that moment,
how many in the world were guilty in every twenty-four
hours ?
This wrong destroys " quality."
As long as it is satisfying itself, so long will there be no
" quality " remaining in the marriage relationship. It is the
same kind of a law at work that was described in the early
pages of this chapter with reference to magnetic margins
as seen in the habits of eating. If you come from the table
hungry, you will have a margin of appetite that will digest
the food that has been eaten ; but if you just evenly fill the
desire for food, there is no margin, but a lessened ability to
digest the food ;
while, still further, if you crowd the system
with surfeiting, you will actually go to the other extreme and
cause distress. Here is seen the opposing forces of a magnetic
margin, and the dark side which contains the ill-effects of abuse
which rapidly lessens whatever magnetism may have been in
store.
In this chapter we are dealing only with normal persons,
not with monstrosities in morals or in body, nor with de-
fectives who wholly lack interest in the opposite sex. There
are men who are bachelors by nature, having no liking for
women. They do not care for their mothers or their sisters,
or the women whom they meet in business or social ways!
They have never entered the stage of possible parentage.
Some such men marry, but they have other motives for so
doing. It may be for a home, for a cook, for money, or for
some gain otherwise. Many instances have been investigated,
and selfishness is behind the union. These men are dis-
appointments to their wives, and the latter almost invariably
are untrue to their husbands ; so that it is not a help to the
world on the moral side for men of this sort to get married.
They should remain single.
MAGNETIC MARGINS oUl
Women, on the other hand, may be undeveloped in the
same way, and not know it. A man could easily ascertain his
own condition, but women have not the same means. Men hit
upon it by accident or in the inevitable course of events in
their lives ; their apparent indifference to the other sex being
the result of physical conditions. Women are often diffident
in their estimation of men, and some are very cold by nature,
who possess the power of parentage ; while others are affection-
ate and fond of attentions who are devoid of this power.
Their husbands, if they get married, are, as a rule, untrue to
them ; and thus such marriages do not tend to help the world
morally. Any thoughtful reader admits this fact.
Normal persons may be wicked in their habits or imperfect
in their development. A person who is incapable of parentage
is abnormal.
One who is capable of parentage, but lacks " quality " will
never pass into the sensuous. It is necessary to go beyond
the first steps in order to pass into the third. The steps are :
Parentage, " Quality " and the Sensuous. They succeed each
other. Without the first there could be no second or third.
Without the second there could be no third.
The lack of the first is an abnormal condition, such as has
been described. The possession of the first only marks the
lower grades of the human species, and is exactly on the level
of the lower forms of life. It is a condition known to the
horse, the cat, the dog and others below mankind.
While the second is necessary to the third, there are classes
of men and women who use it only as a stepping-stone to the
latter. It is only a transition from one condition to the other.
It is not a part of their lives. In fact, most sensuous men and
women are lacking in a margin of " quality," which alone
makes Sex Magnetism possible in its high degree. When there
is a possibility of being sensuous, there is always a presence
of " quality " which, if cultivated until it reached a margin,
would bring the most potent charm into married lives.
Those who have only the first nature, that of the possi-
bility of parentage, are never interesting to each other. No
tie binds them to each other. They are true to their marriage
vows in this respect, for the reason that they have no reason to
be otherwise. But there is nothing to live for except to eat,
302 SEX MAGNETISM
to sleep and to remain animals all their lives. Hundreds of
thousands of such men and women exist in this country
to-day.
Those who have the third nature never possess any margin
in the second nature. They are unable to appreciate the good
in their consorts. They are seeking change, new attractions
and other affiliations.
Husbands of this third nature never were true to their
sweethearts, and are incapable of experiencing fidelity to any
woman. As lovers they sought the ruin of other girls or
women, and even did not hesitate to take advantage of their
own betrothed. They are the men who, under the promise of
marriage, will lead any girl astray. There are not many
women above twenty-five years of age, and, in fact, not a large
number above twenty, who would believe the promises made
by such men, as they would instinctively shrink from them,
and, if misled, they would prefer to be so used rather than lose
the attentions of men. From this class come the roues and
the libertines of the world. Every woman they see, whether
married or not, they look upon with eyes of conquest. Every
girl of marriageable age they feast their gaze on, but without
seeking them in wedlock. It is such men that form clubs
and make up the town fellows who pride themselves on being
called " the boys " and the " men-about-town." It is such
men that attend the theatres and sit in the front rows when
there are girl shows on the stage, as in the " follies " and
revues of to-day. It is such men who are untrue to their
wives, being the respondents in divorce cases based on statutory
grounds.
Disappointing as the fact is, these men number thousands,
and make it possible for the houses of cities and towns to
exist where girls and women pursue their profession. The
number of such men may be estimated when it is stated that
in New York, U.S.A., alone there are over two hundred
thousand professional females plying their trade with men.
Were there no men who were false enough to themselves and
to their homes, there would be no such women. But how
many men are required to make this profession profitable for
the two hundred thousand women and the backers of such
enterprises ?
MAGNETIC MARGINS 303
" All men are bad," said the philosopher.
If one woman was visited by one man only on each night
in every month she would have thirty different men ; but if
she had the same man once a week, she would have about four
different men. As a matter of fact, each female averages two
men each night, or fully eight different males all the time ;
and the sum total would be more than a million men who
are supporting these women in the houses of ill-fame in
New York. Its population, counting the outlying districts, is
about eight millions, and the extent of the wickedness prevail-
ing there may be seen at a glance. It is true that visitors,
travelling men from other parts of the country, and the
transient public furnish a large number of the million or more
men who are false to themselves and their homes. Next
in total census, but more vicious and more virulent as a social
ulcer, is the city of Chicago, U.S.A., whose political gang
maintains a veritable Sodom of bestial crimes.
It has been estimated that when one man is induced to
abandon his patronage of such business, he becomes a factor
towards the downfall of the politics that set up the profession
of the prostitutes ; and this always means that whatever
political party is in power is to blame for it. There is always
a strong denial and protest coming from the party in power, a
pretence of virtue, and then a cry that a wave of moral hysterics
is sweeping over the land ; for these felons love nothing
better than to set going some term of ridicule against
honesty.
When two men have been induced to abandon their support
of such houses, then a still further gain is made in the right
direction. We mean the men who consort with bad women,
not the men who are behind them in the business itself. The
latter are city politicians. But the men who go to such
houses as patrons are the ones who can reduce the number of
such women, and take away a large part of the income of such
politicians.
In an American town of twenty-four thousand inhabitants,
which was cursed by a political system that kept eighteen
houses of ill-fame in the floodtide of prosperity, a group of
men banded themselves together on the principle of good
citizenship and loyalty to their town, and made efforts to
304 SEX MAGNETISM
find out what patrons went to the houses. In a few weeks
they had the names and addresses of practically all of them.
More than seventy per cent of them were married men ; twelve
per cent were members of churches in active participation in
religious services, and a large proportion of the married men
had wives and children who did not know or suspect what was
going on. These married men would go out for an evening,
telling their wives they had important engagements which
might be to their financial benefit, and they would come back
to bright homes and smiling faces of trusting wives and children
yearning for parental attention.
What a travesty on manhood !
As many of these patrons were otherwise decent men, they
were easily persuaded to abandon the houses in question. The
result was that the whole business was broken up, and there
were better homes and more money for legitimate uses.
This same method has been adopted elsewhere. It is
important that men should understand that most of the money
wasted in such places goes to corrupt politicians and to
breweries that back them. The politicians are after the
profits, and they, with the breweries, reap rich rewards, the
latter furnishing beer, which is sold at exorbitant rates to
baudy houses. Then a large number of votes are controlled,
compelling the decent public to accept rulership by the most
despicable of all human beings. In other words, the honest
classes are controlled by the interests that force houses of ill-
fame on the public. Let partisanship be laid aside, and all
good men combine for their own good and that of their homes
and country.
This third nature, the sensuous, is the inward impulse that
drives women astray. It is a paramount evil in some females.
It is almost a disease in many lives. Girls after they are
sixteen, but rarely before, unless they are monstrosities, follow
the bent of their blood, and go quickly into this fearful abyss
of crime that has chained their sex since first they felt the
dawn of civilization. If they do not fall between the ages of
sixteen and twenty-five, there is not one chance in a hundred
of their taking the first steps after that period. It is when
parentage is not advisable, in the years of immature formation
of character, that they are overwhelmed by temptation.
MAGNETIC MARGINS 305
Eighty per cent of all bad girls become bad when they are
sixteen and seventeen years of age ; and beyond the later age
they gradually become strong year by year. The time to
save them is in the two or three years of severest temptation.
It is, however, an accepted fact among physicians and
others who are in a position to know accurately, that about
ninety per cent of all girls in America and France who marry
go to wedlock impure. In this country there is a greater
percentage of chastity, owing to the better system of chaperon-
age, by which girls are not left alone with their lovers. In
America the philosophy of the parents is :
" My daughter is
able to look after herself, and it would be an insult to her to
provide a chaperone to remind her constantly that she is not
able to protect herself." The result is that nine in every ten
girls here fall before marriage. This is not guesswork ; it is a
well-established fact. A man who marries a girl who has had
a previous lover stands only one chance in ten of getting a
virgin wife. She may be adroit enough to deceive him, but the
fact remains the same.
One of the frequent causes of separation after marriage is
the confession of the wife that she had been doing wrong with
some previous lover. Lawyers, physicians, husbands, and
sometimes priests secure such statements in the course of
their professional and marital duties.
It can be seen at a glance that a chaperone is needed ;
and,
in her place, the avoidance of privacy to lovers in their teens,
or when the girl is young. It is much more to the credit of
the girl and the young woman that she be not alone even with
her accepted lover, no matter how close their marriage may
be. There are many courtships where the man is perfectly
willing to remain in the same room with other members of
the family, not asking to be alone with her ; and in one town
it was agreed by the men themselves that they would not
permit girls or women to whom they were paying attention
to be alone with them. Thus the good name of the girl was
protected and the intentions of the man were made clear.
When he found it advisable to propose, he first secured the
consent of the mother and then that of the young woman.
It does not require long guessing to catch the answer that is
coming ; for there are many ways by which she may make
20
306 SEX MAGNETISM
her feelings known even in a crowd. To pure men there is
no need of privacy before marriage. It is foolish and weak to
put in long evenings fondling, embracing, holding and kissing
girls. Instead of setting aside a few months for that before
marriage, it is better to arrange about forty years of it after
wedlock has been commenced.
Many men who go wrong are not wrong at heart, but only
because they do what most husbands do—let the edge of
" quality " be cut off by the sharp desire of sensuousness.
Like the appetite at the table, a control can be exercised,
and then the mind will wake up to the enormity of the offence,
and it will cease. Many women are not bad at heart, but
are tempted either by being neglected by their husbands or
by a course of abuse that can have but one outlet. Yet there
are women who can never be honourable. They are morally
diseased in this line, but gentle and even religious in all other
respects. Some abnormal nerve growth is responsible for their
going astray. They cannot be cured. Some of these wives
who are untrue have the best of husbands, who remain with
them all their spare time and give them constant attention
and the deepest respect and affection. One case is typical of
many thousands. A girl who was seventeen when she was
married, and who had been astray a year before, and had associ-
ated with six different men by her own subsequent confession,
married a wealthy man nine years older than she was, who
had been attracted by her wonderful beauty. He gave her
all his time, as he was free to go and come as he pleased.
He consulted her wishes and tastes in everything and surrounded
her with luxuries in full measure. But despite the fact that
he was in or about the home at all times when she was there,
she managed to slip out under the pretence of making social
calls, and to meet men at houses where she committed wrong
most wantonly. Nothing could hold her in check. In dances
she actually made brazen assaults on men, even those who
were strangers to her. There was no trace of insanity. Her
only excuse was that she could not resist her feelings. Another
woman who married a man whose income was ten thousand
pounds a year committed adultery within sixty minutes after
the ceremony by pre-arrangement with a former lover ; and
she was divorced by the husband.
MAGNETIC MARGINS 307
These types stand for two classes of women in society and
in all ranks of life.
They are beyond cure. It would be useless to waste the
time and effort on them. The only way a man can protect
himself from them is to know all about their habits and pro-
pensities before marriage is promised.
On the other hand, there are cases where girls have been
tricked into leading immoral lives and, after years of such
existence in which they were immobile clay, they have gone
out into the world, taken new names without asking aid of
the courts, and settled in two places ; one in which by labour
they have earned a year or two of good repute and church
influence ; then they have moved to the second place hundreds
of miles away, perhaps, and there have been able to refer to
many people in the first town and have been able to conceal
their wicked past, on the principle that it is not easy to see
through a double veil. We know of scores of such girls
who have married well and have been true to their vows after
wedlock, some of them to-day being at the head of palatial
homes.
The women who cannot control their habits and nature
pass directly through their period of " quality " to that of
the sensuous. They have no margin of safety or repression.
Those who, having been led into immoral lives, have come
back are types of saveable women. They may have never
gone beyond the first nature ;
or, if they have entered the
second, have gone over to the third, and have been able to
get back again ; whereas the unsaveable woman is the one who
cannot get out of the sensuous. She is stained with it as with
an incurable disease.
This study is for the following classes of men and women :
1. Those who have never passed beyond the first nature.
2. Those who are easily capable of passing into the second
nature.
3. Those who, in the present possession of the second
nature, leave no margin, but pass constantly into the third.
4. Those who, having become slaves to the third nature,
are saveable by being brought into the second.
All these things, being translated, read as follows :
Men and women who are married, and who have no nature
308 SEX MAGNETISM
beyond that of animal habits, should develop the second nature
known as " quality."
Men and women who are sensuous, either as a habit or at
times, should fall back into the second nature and develop a
margin which will establish " quality."
Or, in other words, learn the power of affectionate respect
for the one who is your consort, if you are of a cold and animal
nature ;
or, in the event of being sensuous, acquire control
of your nature and resolve it back to affectionate respect.
In either case the focus is the same. It is either coming
up to the standard of affectionate respect or else coming down
to it. The man who grovels in the mire should rise to his
feet ; and he who is in the air should get down to solid ground,
as taught in this book.
Affectionate respect is exactly that regard for a wife that
the lover had for his sweetheart in those days when he thought
she was the most attractive woman in the world ; or the regard
that a woman had for her lover in those days of courtship
when she thought he was a gallant gentleman, a cavalier, and
of noble character ; all in the blur of a dimly-seen landscape.
A courtship in which the man acts the part of a beefy,
stolid, phlegmatic fellow is coarse, and can have no place in
our study. Let the women have character enough to let him
alone, even if he has thousands. He is an animal. The girl
who is depressed, stupid, dull and uninteresting should likewise
be unloaded long before there is any thought of marriage. She
will make only an animal wife. Here is such a wife in the
very locality where this work is being written. She was
married when she was thirty years of age ;
fat, slow, dull,
heavy, and selfish in the extreme, yet worth a million in her
bank account, but not in her character. The man who married
her is handsome, tall, strong and attractive ; but he was
after money, and had boasted that he would never marry one
who was poor. Now he is miserable in the fact that he has
so many pounds of pork, and she has the money, not he ;
nor is he able to move any of it in his direction.
In all such cases Sex Magnetism is impossible.
These are types of the physical or animal nature, where
there can be no happiness, because there is no " quality."
But it has been proved that many husbands and wives
MAGNETIC MARGINS 309
who seem to have developed only the first nature have been
afterwards able to acquire " quality " by ascertaining more
of their own natures. If they were needed in the world for
no other purpose than to breed, they would fulfil that mission,
though, perhaps, in a limited extent ; but when they are
able to extricate themselves from this animal nature, they are
often happier than those who pass over to the third nature.
Thousands of men have complained that they have married
women who are cold and dull ; no display of affection will
awaken them ; and they are without sympathy and community
of temperament. Under such a course of training as that
which is contained in the several works of the Magnetism Club,
such women have been melted, and have become attractive
wives. We cannot give the details of such conversion, but the
pith of the process is in setting up an appreciation of " quality
"
in the dull and chilling wife, following a thorough course of
training in personal magnetism. Some women do not wish
to be different, others are willing to try, and still others are
anxious to merit their husband's attentions.
If a husband cares enough for his wife's affectionate respect
to assist her in developing it, he can do so by himself first
becoming magnetic, starting with the first book, which contains
the developing course, and following especially through Ad-
vanced Magnetism, and, above all else, taking Universal
Magnetism, where such results are absolute certainties when
there is a faithful practice of the habits that are taught.
Such a development is not a matter of guesswork, as it has
been attained by thousands of students who have persisted
to the end in the adoption of the teachings included in those
courses. Nor is it a difficult matter. For thirty years these
methods have been tested and put into practice, and the results
are already exactly proportioned with the efforts made to
secure them.
For this reason we state as an absolute fact that any man
who seeks to change the nature of his wife can do so by his
own exercise of " quality," based upon his own developed
magnetism.
To show how simple the process is, let us state the whole
plan :
1. He should do what more than seven hundred thousand
310 SEX MAGNETISM
persons have done in the past quarter of a century—study
and adopt the plain teachings of the foundation book, which
is known as the developing course in the cultivation of personal
magnetism. This is so plainly taught that no person has ever
been unable to study and adopt it in his or her own way. Other
help is not needed.
2. Then, above everything else, the training system known
as Advanced Magnetism should be pursued, as that develops
the emotional powers or feelings, which are directly involved
in marriage relations. Thus far the student has acquired
personal magnetism as a power of energy, and has been
placed in full control of his own feelings and those of all other
persons.
3. Before the final course, Universal Magnetism, is taken
the present work is necessary, or else they should be studied
together.
4. In the present work which, in many men, will be found
sufficient without any of the other works, if personal magnetism
is present in a natural way, each chapter should be mastered
in turn. These chapters are eminently practical, and unfold
the actual experiences that men and women must encounter
when they become husbands and wives.
If you have read each chapter, and then re-read it several
times, you must have ascertained the fact that this entire
work is directly human, not artificial. It brings home to you
life as it is. It makes clear to you the facts of real life in wed-
lock. It is not a book of theory, or advice, or high-flown
idealism, but a plain, simple, effective course of instruction
that brings you in contact with inside facts that seem so plain
that they really do not appear as teachings, but as reflections
of the mirror of nature. You recognize these truths, and then
you think that they have always been known to you. This is
the best way of teaching.
You should live in these teachings.
Think of them, read them again, ponder over them, try
to find them present about you, and absorb all they would
instil into your life. Every thought that takes hold of you
will do its work. It is sure to.
As there have been men who have prized their wives,
despite the coldness of the latter, and who have, by these
MAGNETIC MARGINS 311
very processes, melted the natures of those wives, so you who
may desire to repeat their successes may do so in the same
way. It is done by magnetism. As a climax of all studies
in this power, learn to secure a margin in " quality." This
will be presently explained.
Look back to some of the similar cases mentioned in the
first part of this portion of the present work.
If you eat less than your hunger desires, you save a margin
of appetite, which means that you will digest your food more
readily and get out of it a greater proportion of nutrition,
because when there is no margin left the vitality required for
digestion is gone. The process will be merely that of disposing
of a stuffed stomach and its contents by mechanical change
leading to fermentation and later diseases.
If you run a race and let all your power enter into it, you
will not be able to finish it creditably.
If you try to lift a great weight and permit all your energy
to participate in the effort, you will be tired out when you
get through, if not before.
If you perform any work and do not conserve some of your
vitality in doing it, you will be exhausted.
Any man or woman who lets out all the stored vitality in
any effort will break down in time ; but one who saves some
and is never at the limit will grow stronger. This rule is seen
at work in gymnasiums where men and women are in search of
more muscular power. Atrophy is the penalty of full exertions.
It is a fact that premature deaths occur among athletes in far
greater proportions than in any other class in life. Consump-
tion, following a career of a few years of supremacy in some
line of sport, is the usual fate. We have a list of over eight
thousand young men who were athletes in their teens and
twenties, but who died when they were in their thirties.
The reason is plain.
They never saved a margin of vitality.
If you let out all the energy you have, you lack muscular
magnetism and can never build any power of any kind above
that.
Now there is a middle between two extremes. The middle is
always the realm of magnetism, let it be where you choose to
put it.
312 SEX MAGNETISM
1. In mental work the middle is between non-use on the
one hand and the loss of margin on the other.
2. In muscular use the middle is between non-use on the
one hand and loss of margin in the other direction.
3. In emotional life, which contains all the happiness in the
world, as shown in Advanced Magnetism, the middle is between
that dullness and slow, stolid character on the one hand, and
the escape of all emotional power on the other hand, leaving no
margin.
4. In sex nature the middle is between non-use on the one
hand and the lack of a margin on the other, which results in
" quality."
The mind that is not employed, and given a large share of
work to do, will be weak ; or if it is fed on literary sugar all the
time it will soften. An unused brain is nearly smooth ; but one
that has been given much to do of a taxing nature is deeply
built with convolutions that show intelligence. But if that
brain is allowed to run in one rut of work or thought, it soon
exhausts all the vitality that feeds that part, and the margin is
lost. Then danger sets in.
You cannot afford to deprive your mind of its margin of
vitality.
What is called sugar food for the brain is novel reading,
newspaper reading, light magazine reading and all forms of
entertainment that hold the attention and make a man or woman
hate to do anything solid. Mathematics, which has had more
to do to cure softening of the brain when it has threatened to
take the mind away, in its incipient stages, is hated by the
novel reader. Ask any woman. Mathematics that has had more
to do than any other agency to build up a strong, manly and
virile mind is hated by the lover of newspaper sensations. Ask
any man who must have his daily paper for an hour a day. If
he desires to build a good brain, let him read the headlines of
the legitimate news and throw the paper at once into the
waste basket. By so doing he will get all the current history
and none of the sewerage.
All sensible men do this.
Whatever is undertaken by the muscles should be in the
middle ground of use. If you do not exercise at all, you will
have soft, flabby flesh and muscles, and your bones will get
MAGNETIC MARGINS 313
dry. The same force in a fall that would be only enough to
break the arm and leg of a sedentary man or woman would not
do any harm to one who exercised constantly. There is nothing
so injurious to man, woman or child as lack of physical action.
There should be work in variety and activities in every conceiv-
able way to give to the whole body each day a full share of tax,
all in the middle ground. Never get tired out. Never go to the
extreme that means exhaustion. If you adopt this middle stage
you will have wonderful health of body, just as you will get
wonderful health of mind by taxing the brain in severe tasks,
without producing weariness.
It is all in the secret of maintaining a margin in everything.
But in the emotional realm, in the midst of the seventy-six
moods that make up human feeling, and out of which one gets
all the happiness in life, it is necessary to avoid either extreme.
Until the work of Advanced Magnetism was published a few
years ago, there was never any training course for the emotions.
It has been abundantly proved in centuries of experience that
the use of the mind was necessary to develop it, and to make
it a power in the world ; while worrying, or any excessive think-
ing on one thing, or undue work along one line of thought, would
break down the brain by taking away the margin of vitality.
It has also been abundantly proved that it is necessary to
use the muscles in order to give strength and health to the body.
The man that carried his arm in a sling for three months,
although he was otherwise attentive to all the demands of
health, was surprised to find the arm withered, thin, emaciated
and useless until it was given activity again. The law is one
that cannot be challenged.
It is the same with the emotions, but whoever gave them a
thought ?
Of the seventy-six emotions, as described in Advanced
Magnetism, and there grouped according to their value or harm-
fulness, it is shown that development by scientific practice will
bring a new realm into the existence of every man and woman.
That individual who never smiles is morbid, and the nervous
system is deranged ;
but, on the other hand, the person who is
frivolous, silly or given to excess of pleasure saves no
margin, and magnetism in that emotion is lost, where it should
be most useful in the world. One who weeps, or mourns, or is
314 SEX MAGNETISM
melancholy, or grieves constantly, or is subject to fits of depres-
sion, is in an extreme of another emotion, the proper normal
character of which is seriousness and earnestness ; and it has
been found that Advanced Magnetism will train all such morbid
natures out of every man or woman who suffers from them.
These are but two of the many emotions therein dealt with.
But as they carry in themselves all the pleasures and all
the happiness, as well as all the sorrow and suffering of life,
no work is so important as that.
The best of us, without training, have but two or three
emotional powers, as they are not well controlled ; all the others
are vagaries that run wild when the vicissitudes of life call them
into being.
In sex nature there is the tendency to go to one extreme or
the other ; and as nature seeks to impress on humanity the
necessity of reproducing the race, the third condition, that of
the sensuous, is the more common extreme. When a man or
woman is not given over to that state, there is generally a dull-
ness of interest, and the limited use of the power of parentage.
When such power is given use and a margin of vitality is
maintained it is called " quality."
When " quality " is passed over quickly and without saving
the margin as a constant habit, the result is sensuousness.
In the period intended for use the lack of it is a serious
blunder in married life, especially after thirty years of age.
It should then be extended into the very latest years of life,
even to the age of ninety or a hundred ; and this will be possible
only where there has been a conservation of the margin,
with its consequent result in magnetism.
Men who are more than ninety years of age have retained
such powers through the principle of magnetic margins
and women have also, in the late nineties, been able to
participate.
Such powers come from the training found in this
present course converging with the training of Advanced
Magnetism.
The most foolish custom prevailing in wedlock is to use up
the margin of vitality in this respect. The rule adopted by
the good doctor who studies the features of his patients is the
appearance of the face. If the lines under the eyes are visible,
MAGNETIC MARGINS 315
then the margin has been used, and surfeiting, as in eating,
has brought on the negative condition, or the other side of the
dividing line of magnetic margins, with the struggle to get back
to a flat basis of energy.
Look for a moment at the result of this condition.
In the first place, the man wants the woman, not merely for
such companionship, but because her presence to him is an
attractive force ; but after the magnetic margin of vitality is
gone, even for a few hours only, he does not want her. He does
not care to see her. Her touch to him is a source of irritation.
This fact has been testified to by many persons who have been
honest with themselves, and by physicians who understand the
reason of it. One man who represents the best of his class of
frank and conservative men of perfect health, says :
*
'
It is the
plan of nature that the two sexes should meet, and then ignore
each other for a time. I know that I do not want to see or to
hear my wife for several hours, and I am greatly bothered when
she speaks to me. She says I am at one time a very affectionate
man, and then am cross as a bear. This is nature."
To avoid this loss of magnetic margin in vitality means that
men and women take a constant interest in each other, and
have a drawing power each for the other. It is affirmative
magnetism as long as this margin is preserved ; otherwise it
is negative and repellant. Surely nature made the negative
part of electricity, and of magnetism as well.
The most disagreeable person in the world is the one who
has used up this magnetic margin of vitality. The brain suffers,
and cannot do its best work, as is seen in the lives and present-
day careers of sensuous men and women. Who expects
anything of the roue, or of the prostitute ? No mental achieve-
ment, no position of trust, no work of any value to the world
can come from such sources. Even the geniuses who have
astonished the world for a few years have died very young,
because this extreme burned up their powers all at once. But
the great law of averages proves that nothing comes from a
sensuous nature that can have value.
Not only is the attractive force gone, but the mental and
physical powers are reduced to almost nothing, and there is a
stopping of the progress that gave hope of a successful career.
Men make a mistake in marrying under thirty if they are
316 SEX MAGNETISM
unable to control this habit. But at any time they should, for
the sake of holding their powers of attracting their wives, keep
a magnetic margin. The difference is most marked. Take the
case of the young man who had won the affections of a very
beautiful and talented woman of wealth. She was not yet
thirty, and was capable of becoming an ideal wife. The man
was about her age, and seemed much younger, because he had
conserved his powers all his life. He had wealth and a good
profession. The public looked upon the coming marriage as the
most suited to the contracting parties of any that had taken
place in that city.
When the time was not more than two months away for the
ceremony this young man was unanimously elected a member
of a new club of wealthy men and by them initiated into habits
that he had never before indulged in. He had been accustomed
to reach the home of his affianced soon after eight in the even-
ing that he called on her ; but now, although he was just as
prompt, he left his home an hour earlier than usual and spent
the extra time in a certain house. He then proceeded to call
upon his sweetheart. On the night of the very first visit he
paid her after he began his career of wrong she said to her
mother, " Charles seems to me to be different this evening. He
has not been as entertaining and as magnetic as before." After
the next call following such misdeed she told him that he was
not pleasing to her. He took the hint and behaved himself for
a week, then repeated the wrong and called on her the same
evening. In the week he made six visits to her in seven even-
ings, and the last four were in his old self, and she was again
gracious to him ; but after that week was up, and he thought it
was merely imagination, he again repeated the offence for three
successive evenings, and she wrote him the following letter the
next day after the last call :
" I have discovered that I no
longer love you, and I cannot for your sake enter into a loveless
marriage."
This experience is not of one man, but of many hundreds
and thousands of men. It is occurring, in one form or another,
in all walks of life and in all parts of the world. Men who patron-
ize the bawdy houses are coming home late in the evening to
their wives, and despite the extra efforts they make to please
their wives by their manners, there is lacking the magnetism
MAGNETIC MARGINS 317
that tells something the women cannot put in words ; but their
feelings translate it.
A man who has no magnetic margin of the kind called
" quality " cannot substitute pleasing ways and kind words for
that which he has thrown away, whether he has parted with it
away from home or in his own legitimate marriage.
The mother who loves her child may speak to it in tones that
are not very pleasant, but the child will love that mother better
than it will the stranger who talks to it in the sweetest and
kindest tones known to the human voice.
Why ?
Because the mother-love is in the voice, be it cross or kind,
and it is translated to the child by the mysterious channel
of communication which nature has created for that purpose.
But kindness without mother-love is not so felt and
translated.
The husband who has a magnetic margin in his vitality has
that " quality " that makes his wife want him, and makes him
want her if she really wants him. This law is fixed and never
changes.
It works both ways.
There is a woman whose husband loves her and tries to
make her happy at all times. But she had been left alone too
much in the evenings by this same husband who intends to do
right. He merely goes down town. So she has been visiting
the house of a woman friend, and there has met two men, and
wrong has followed. She is at her home before her husband
gets back, and he never suspects her ; but he finds that he does
not have that peculiar liking for her that he did. In some
way she no longer fascinates him. For merely animal uses she
is perhaps as much of a wife as ever, but even these are growing
less all the while.
There are in the city of New York, in the city of Boston, in
the city of Chicago, and in almost every great life centre of
America, women who live in homes of wealth and luxury, sur-
rounded by every comfort that riches can buy, who, never-
theless, tiring of the club interests of their husbands and the
unending neglect to which they are subjected, go to high-
priced houses of ill-fame, not for the money paid there, but
because they require attentions that they cannot receive at their
318 SEX MAGNETISM
own homes. They are society women. Some of them are
beautiful, and in their ranks are the noted beauties of a few
years ago. Many of them are young. A society man making
the rounds of the high-toned houses, as he calls them, found
the wives of six of his own club associates, and more than once
has a wife, hiding behind a veil, seen her own husband in such
a place.
She reasons in this way : "I am neglected at home. My
husband goes ostensibly to his club and I am told to make
myself as comfortable as I can. He goes astray repeatedly.
He is in these houses. By using my veil I can escape his gaze,
and he will never know. From these houses he goes to his
club and I to my home, so I am in bed and asleep long before he
comes in, and I am not likely ever to be discovered."
But is she happy ?
Never. There is not a moment when her heart is not
wrung by the agony of it all. No wonder many a society
woman has put the revolver to her temple, or turned on the
gas. The man, used by nature and instinct to adultery, has
no pangs of conscience.
The remedy is in the union of man and wife at home,
in the evenings and holidays and Sundays together in sight
of each other. It may be a dull life for a while compared
with his escapades, but it is sure to bring solid happiness which
he can never get from prostitutes.
No man can do wrong outside and come home with the
magnetism that belongs to his nature. No woman can live
in sin and attract the man. Bad women have very little
magnetism ; it is sensual attraction which flares up and leaves
only disgust and hatred.
But assuming that both husband and wife intend to be
true to each other as some are ; and that they are in fact
faithful to their marriage vows ; there comes into play the law
of exhaustion, the loss of the magnetic margin that is most
attractive. One woman said to another woman :
" Do you
never tire of your husband ? Do you never want attention
from some more magnetic and attractive man ? " And the
reply was, " My husband is magnetic and attractive. I do not
know where I could find a man that I would prefer to him."
" But," said the first woman, " if all men and women were
MAGNETIC MARGINS 319
released from matrimony and it was made right to select any
man in all the world you wanted, what one would be your
choice ?
" " My husband," was the reply.
The reason for this answer was that the man whom she had
married was careful to keep his vitality always on edge, as he
called it. He has many times given an account of his habits,
and he never loses the magnetic margin of vitality. He has
plenty to spare. He makes himself attractive and magnetic
to his wife at all times. He does not neglect her, and they are
happily of one temperament. But even if a couple may be of
the same temperament, it is possible to become wearying to
each other by repeatedly losing the margin of vitality. Let
both become tired in a nervous way, and they will want to see
little and hear little of each other. It is the law of nature :
meet and then ignore one another.
« Quality " may be maintained by the use of good judgment
and careful planning. It will not regulate itself. Nor is it
sensible to live apart, for this is not intended by nature.
There are other uses of the sex attractions than to merely
produce offspring.
What a superb man is he who combines all the good traits
of the first chapters of this work with all those better powers
that are discussed in the later chapters, and secures his climax
in a large margin of "quality." Non-use deadens and
weakens any power. Do not be guilty of that extreme.
But excess is still worse. Avoid that extreme. Always secure
a margin. \
Such a man is attractive. He is not ugly m feature. It
his face is misshapen, he possesses the force of manliness, of
nobility, of affection and of the best powers of his sex. They
all stand forth as marks of the man. He is a KING.
Such a woman is attractive. She can never be ugly. She
is of the sweetest disposition. She has a loveliness that wins
all who approach her, and she is reserved for one alone—her
husband. She is beautiful to look upon. For a year or so
in the life of a girl or a woman who is sensuous there is beauty,
if she is so cast in her creation. But the reason why some
such females are beautiful is that they have passed from
" quality
" into the lower estate, and have taken the bright-
ness and fascination of that middle nature with them, but not
320 SEX MAGNETISM
to retain it. Time very soon brings out the ill that is seething
within their frames.
Time is the great arbitrator of all things.
But the woman of " quality " is really most fascinating.
She fascinates her husband. She could fascinate any man
who was manly. She is a power among women. She has
ways that are in the middle ground, going to neither extreme
of callous coldness or excessive warmth.
Such a couple will never separate.
There are some few men, and, perhaps, more than a few
women who are either abnormal or cold in nature by habit
or temperament, who still insist that the personal relations of
marriage are disagreeable. Their place in the world is in
singleness. Let them stay out of marriage if they know more
than nature and nature's God.
Do not go about the house all tired out.
Exhaustion gives indigestion, for it uses up all the nervous
vitality and leaves very little for the stomach to employ in
its work. Some of the worst cases of gastritis and chronic
dyspepsia have been cured by accumulating the power of
" quality." As day follows day in the practice, the tone of
stomach grows better and better, until all is well again.
Recently a woman who, after the most careful dieting, was
too weak to digest her food, simple as it was, and who got no
better with treatment and medicine, was told by her physician
to spend a month with her sister. She did this, and her
husband followed, and the cure was not forthcoming. So she
chided her doctor. Then he told the husband to go home, and
stay home for a month, which he did, and the indigestion dis-
appeared entirely. Then she went home a well woman, and
had the same trouble again.
In the voluminous reports made by members of the Ralston
Health Club to that organization, it appears that its natural
methods of treatment fail among married people who are of
the third nature. They try to live up to the true standards of
health, and then report that they fail. Medicines will not help
them ; nor will change of climate or treatment of any kind.
They sometimes die before they find out the real trouble.
Now, the Ralston Health Club cannot go about telling people
who are married to use moderation, for the Club is not able to
MAGNETIC MARGINS 321
include the reasons why in its teachings. The reasons are
magnetic ones, and are led up to by long discussions and
explanations before they will be satisfying. Then there must
be magnetism on which to found the basis of will power to
practise moderation in anything. Many men have died while
finding out the truth. Not long ago we warned a man not
over forty-seven years of age against what was too apparent
in his face, a loss of " quality." He was in his third nature,
sensuous, but true to his wife. She was of strong vitality, and
was slowly taking his energy from him.
The usual result of the loss of vitality of this kind is the
weakness of the stomach. Doctors have said millions of times :
" If this man or this woman will live alone for a month, the
stomach will get its tone and strength back again, and find
digestion easy and normal," or words of similar import. The
man whom we warned could have been saved, but his stomach
had no life, his nerves were depleted of all their vitality, and
he died at the home of his brother after eating a meal that he
had no power to digest.
When you have lost the margin of " quality " let the
stomach rest for ten to fifteen hours. It needs vitality, and
you have none to offer it.
Neuralgia is another result ofthe loss of the magnetic margin.
There is no more common experience than the wife arising
in the morning with a sick headache, due to loss of vitality.
Of course, loss of sleep will bring similar pain in the head ;
and indigestion, as of some one thing that hurts the system,
like chocolate, pastry, cake, ice-cream, or fried food of any
kind, will set up a severe neuralgic pain in the back of the
neck, or in the head near the neck, or at the top of the head.
This is because the food cannot be digested readily, and the
vitality is overtaxed in trying to dispose of it ;
although
sometimes the lack of easy digestion sets up poisons that cause
pains to lodge in, or within a few inches of, the heart, and in the
lungs, liver or head.
Such poisons produce death without warning.
Married men and women have ninety-three per cent of all the
neuralgia in the world, and seventy-nine per cent of all the
indigestion.
When " quality " is in its widest margin, which means
322 SEX MAGNETISM
when it is used and not allowed to run to the sensuous, then
the following advantages are secured :
1. The brain power is at its best, for men and women
accomplish more with their minds then than under any other
conditions.
2. The health of the nerves is at its best, for then the
nervous system seems absolutely perfect.
3. The organic condition of the body is in its best tone.
4. The eyes are brighter and the face more attractive ; in
fact, the features themselves are decidedly different.
5. There is greater inherent possibility of happiness.
6. Out of this nature called " quality " arises the con-
stitutional power that sets up the strong hold on life ; for
statistics show that married persons live longer on the average
than those who are not married, and this better nature promotes
longevity.
Certain families have for the past thirty years practised
the regime in marriage that is taught here. Out of several
hundred thousand pupils, it is not surprising that many would
be found who would give heed to these rules ; and they have
been amply rewarded for it. The regime is not at all difficult
when once it is understood.
Keep your mind bright. Do not have periods of weakness
and depressed vitality. Keep your face bright. Do not let it
show the drag of excesses. Keep your eyes full of life and
light, for they will show dull with the general weariness of the
body or the nerves.
No person should run to the end of the margin in any-
thing. Do not spend more money than you earn, and do not
let your bank account get empty. Have something always
saved ahead.
Freshness of health and spirits will have the opposite effect
on the home and family from that which follows neuralgic
headaches, exhausted nerves and irritated minds. Yet it is
a fact that most marriages are dull on the one hand, or a fight
for recuperation on the other. The wise man or woman is
the one who can display self-control in this relationship.
Practise delay. Be exceedingly careful in all uses of all
powers of mind and body, of faculties, and energies, and thus
save loss and weakness.
MAGNETIC MARGINS 323
As a result of many years of experiments, carried on by
several thousand families, it has been found true that when
a man or woman is able to accumulate a margin of " quality,"
the mutual interest is "on edge," as the saying goes. This is
the most to be desired of all conditions in matrimony. Then
the husband likes to be in the room where his wife is working
or reading. Then he wants to hear her voice, and see her in
actual presence. Then he is glad of the little attentions that
she longs to bestow upon him ; sometimes a look, sometimes
a word of kindness, sometimes a touch of the hand, and often
a closely held conversation together. If she is "on edge "
in her interest in him, then she wants to be where he is, listen
to what he says, receive any caress he cares to bestow, if only
a pat on the shoulder or a grasp of the hand, and there is the
same exhilaration of heart when they are thus affiliated as in
that first period when they met and talked together years
ago.
This change has been brought about thousands of times.
It is a most remarkable rejuvenation of life.
How much better it is than the usual methods now in
vogue, even in families where men and women are faithful
to their marriage vows ! Even where men stay at home in the
evenings and give their wives all the attention they crave in
the home, in helping in duties, in pleasures, in observing
holidays, and in all the many things that make the wife believe
that her husband still cares for her, this extra interest, born
of a high state of vitality, adds charm to her existence, and he
finds it paying him in return ; for all men of the highest sense
are willing to be taken back to that spirit that prevailed in
the early days of their courtship.
This is really what it is.
It is going back to that same spirit. People who see
married life only as a routine of drudgery and the dumping
ground of commonplaces, have come to find the old spirit
of the days of courtship born again, and solely through this
influence. And they have been thankful for the light that
has shown them the way to return to that sweeter era.
While the use of any faculty or power increases its energy
and prolongs its time of existence, this can be true only when
that use is within magnetic margins. To leave no margin
324 SEX MAGNETISM
means wearing out. This rule applies to life itself. It applies
to everything. If you want to make the body grow old,
never save any margin of energy, but work up to your full
limit of endurance. Never let your strength be conserved,
but do all you can each day. On the other hand, if you want
to have power of muscle, you must use your body and keep
within some margin, avoiding weariness. He who works and
saves no margin of strength will wear out fast. He who runs
the mind to its limit of endurance will break it down or bring
on age fast. But he who does not use the muscles will be
weak, and he who does not tax the mind will have no mental
powers.
The same rules apply to the period during which " quality
"
may be kept alive ; and this means the time of extending the
faculties into the farthest limit of old age. No man or woman
should court second childhood.
It is supposed that this era, known as second childhood,
is the result of all the faculties breaking down. But it comes
solely from the inability to save margin in " quality." This
question has been the subject of the most careful inquiry for
many years, and it is now well settled that the childishness
of mind and body is due to the return of the same conditions
that prevailed prior to the dawn of puberty, and so the keen-
ness of sight and of hearing follow the same influence.
The eyes follow the stomach very largely, although there
are exceptions to this statement ; but in the long run the
sight will be weak when indigestion is impaired by nervous
weakness, such as attends losses in marriage.
In cases where those losses have been checked and perfect
digestion has been attained, bad eyesight has passed away.
The vision clears in good health. There are thousands of
children wearing glasses to-day as the result of a wretched
diet, owing to the ignorance and indifference of their parents
on the subject of food selection. They all grow old before they
are ten years of age.
Second childhood, therefore, is not the result of ageing
because of loss of the ordinary faculties ; but the return to
the conditions that prevailed before puberty. Yet, closely
allied with it is the better health of all the body and the
better powers of the faculties, when the margin of " quality
"
MAGNETIC MARGINS 325
enhances the vitality that prevents the coming on of second
childhood.
The roue ends his energy twenty years sooner than the
healthy man of conservative habits.
The professional women die twenty to thirty years sooner
than the average woman of good health ; some of the former
ending their lives when they are in the thirties, some in the
forties, and very few ever reach the fifties. A small per cent
live longer, but the death rate is very much greater in the ranks
of that class than among other women, when the health is
the same to start with in both classes. The wife who may be
honourable, but whose vitality has been lessened during
marriage, is subject to maladies that women would escape
who conserve their energy. Those who survive disease with
weakened vitality pass early into their second childhood,
although there are occasionally exceptions to this rule. Some
constitutions can endure much loss.
But regardless of these exceptions, and following the proofs
that have been secured in a large range of investigations, it
is a fact well established that the habits of saving magnetic
margins is the grandest of all habits of life.
It makes no difference where that habit is applied, it brings
power, and the power is natural. It is nature's conservation.
This principle may be seen at work any day in many ways ;
in the public where men and women are engaged in the whirl
of life's activities, and where they are breaking down by the
thousands, ending useful careers prematurely ;
and in the
home where worry, quarrels, wrong habits and the misuse of
the vital powers are mowing down both sexes with startling
regularity.
That man or woman who learns how to save any margin in
any way is laying aside a fund as useful as the surplus earnings
spoken of in the early part of this book, in the second chapter.
Like the rule of never spending as much as you earn, the other
rule of never using your vitality up to the limit of its genera-
tion is bound to bring you a fund of power that will add to
your happiness in many ways.
Thus it will be seen that the same natural law runs
through the whole study ;
beginning with the suggestion that
all persons should save a margin of their earnings, and ending
826 SEX MAGNETISM
with the conservation of a margin of vitality in marriage
that shall give to the owners of the home built by the earnings
the opportunity for the highest enjoyment of the blessings
that accrue there. If you save enough money by years of
economy to buy you a home, it does not follow that you will
be perfectly happy there if you are weak and sickly. Some-
thing more than a home is necessary. The laws of the second
chapter reach over this whole work and join hands with the
laws of this chapter.
Write it down in your mind and never forget it
A successful life is founded on margins that bring magnet-
ism ; and they are margins in money, margins in muscular
power, margins in nervous energy, margins in mind, and
margins in vitality.
Never get tired in brain, in vitality, in muscle, or in any
of the uses of the body.
Be active. Use what you have been endowed with. Lay
no talents away. Keep them going. Non-use destroys life
in anything. But do not go to the limit.
All margins on the right side are magnetic.
Many, many times we have been asked, "How can this
practice be undertaken, and how much time is needed each
day to bring about the required results ?
" The answer is that
no time is needed for practice, for it is all a matter of habit.
When you see a man or woman who is naturally endowed with
personal magnetism, you say at once that such person has
been born with a gift. But the facts are just the opposite.
Habits may make or destroy the gift. If there is any inherent
power at all, it is wholly due to the desire and willingness
to pursue a certain line of habits.
If you are lazy, it does not follow that this fault was born
in you. If you are active, it does not follow that activity is a
born gift. And that is all there is to most of the power of
personal magnetism in the making. Active persons, having
become rich, have also been dragged down into a life of lazi-
ness ; and lazy persons, having been aroused by some stirring
appeal, have turned their lives into the greatest possible
activity with results that have astonished their friends. It
all comes down to the question of habit.
We teach the making of lists.
MAGNETIC MARGINS 327
In a preceding chapter we have advised the listing of all
your commonplaces. This is an easy way to acquire a wonderful
degree of magnetism. If you are willing to make these lists
you will show surprising progress from the very day you so
start. With a hundred commonplaces before you, your atten-
tion will soon drive them out of your life ;
a thing that is not
possible without lists.
The same is true of the study of margins, which is the
grandest of all phases in the study of Sex Magnetism.
Make a list of all possible ways in which you may begin
to save margins in your daily life. It will take a little time
to begin with ;
but, once done, you wiU have it for reference.
Adopt a system. Have your lists where you can see them
and think of them, especially during the last few minutes
before falling asleep at night. They will enter your mmd
and nervous system and soon become a part of yourself.
From this list you must cultivate, not by practice but by
attention, the habit of saving margins in everything. People
who are naturally magnetic do this without plan or thought
they simply feel that it gives them unusual power.
Of all the men and women in this world who rule others
with a royal sceptre, there are none who can equal those who
possess this habit of saving margins. The power is conscious,
and is felt wherever the persons go. Opportunities arise every
minute of the day for the practice of this remarkable custom.
In the Foundation Course the student is taught to avoid
leakage of nervous vitality. Here we teach the avoidance of
leakage in the higher uses of the faculties of mind and heart,
of body and influence. There is one rule that can be given m
closing this series of lessons :
" Never allow free rein."
CHARMLAND
FROM the hour when two persons first took an interest
in each other until that later hour when they awoke from
the day dreams in which they had indulged, they were under
the spell of nature's charm. This was an intentional spell.
It was no accident. It has been at work in every generation
since the human race made any pretence of being better than
the lower animal. Poets call it love. The world calls it love,
and this word is as convenient as any that may be found in the
dictionary.
The peculiar fact is that this charm never comes into a
life that has not been endowed with the physical conditions
that attend the development of young manhood and young
womanhood. When anything abnormal checks that develop-
ment, no matter how young or old the individual may be,
there is nothing but the dull, animal interests. But when these
conditions do arise properly there are sometimes temperaments
that are so cold that they go through the perfunctory animal
habits with neither mind nor heart warmed. To them one
sex is the same as another in all respects but one, and this
never is anticipated or thought much about.
Such people never enter Charmland.
But the wholly normal, natural and perfectly-developed
young man or young woman is sure to be ushered into the
outer portals of this wonderful realm, and there be given a
taste of its inner possibilities, as revealed by the true tempera-
ment. It is almost always a matter that is regulated by
temperament. The young man who saw the sunset sky in
the heart of the mountain, and who, on being asked to express
his opinion, said that it reminded him of a ham he had seen in
the city, a streak of fat and a streak of lean (pictured by the
intervals and bars of crimson and pearl, as seen by the eyes
of a friend who was able to appreciate the delights of nature),
was the type of man who never enters Charmland. If the hues
328
CHARMLAND 329
that hover about the western sky in the hour of sunset have
no response in his nature, there can be no love in his heart.
He is ham-fed, and his brain is ham-nurtured, while his blood
is warmed by leaf-lard. There are too many such men in
the world.
They may marry, and undoubtedly will ; so do animals.
These men will never have a caress for their wives after the
honeymoon is over, for their temperament forbids it. They
see nothing worth while in it. One of them, when asked if he
kissed his wife good-bye in the mornings when he left for his
office, and again in the evenings on his return, said he did not
he once did for a few times, then stopped the practice, for
he thought it useless. "What good does it do her or do
me ? I support her, buy her clothes, feed her well, and give
her a comfortable home ; but what is the use of palavering
over her ?
" He is a distinct type of man. He has his place
in nature, but not in Charmland.
In that beautiful country called Charmland there is no
room for men and women who are ham-fed, whose minds are
matured with ham nutrition, and whose blood is warmed
with leaf-lard. They would not know what was the use of
Charmland.
Let us escape from them and come to that larger class of
normal men and women who are built upon natural lines,
whose hearts have good, red blood flowing hotly through
them, and whose minds love something more than a streak of
fat and a streak of lean ham.
It is true that nature is tricky.
She brings the two sexes together by opening for them the
outer gates of Charmland, lets them take a look within, and
then leaves them to themselves to enter further or to linger
there at the portals, and then recede to their old haunts and
habits. Most men and a large number of women do recede,
and are lost to the great happiness of the world. The part
that nature plays is to show them what is possible. In so
doing she purposely charms them. At that time the young
woman is sweeter in the eyes of the young man than ever
mortal being was before, or ever can be since. To her he is
all that her fancy has painted—the ideal lover from the first
dream of her dawn.
330 SEX MAGNETISM
Then they come together.
They may be engaged, or marry, and there nature leaves
them for a while. But as the race must be kept alive, it is
necessary that the two sexes get acquainted ; and so they
are made to appear not only at their best, but in the spell
of a charm that is woven about their brains and through
their hearts until the dirty girl of five years ago is the dainty
and delicious maiden of to-day, and the nasty-nosed boy has
been made into the mould of a chevalier.
This is nature's trick, and, no doubt, she smiles at the
way it works, for, in fact, it works like a charm.
Then the crafty husband and the selfish wife both agree
that they will never have children ; or he may not want
them, while she pleads with him to allow at least one when
she is forty ;
but, bless you, nature gives them five before
she is thirty. Nature is more selfish than the woman, and far
craftier than the husband ; for all the children that are born
in the world, ninety per cent come before they are affirmatively
sought, as surprises. One in ten may be deliberately planned
for, but the other nine are nature's gifts. So in two ways
she is designing. She brings unattractive sexes together in
courtship by throwing a charm over them and making love
blind ; and later on she takes them off their guard by delivering
offspring without receiving orders to that effect.
So the world wags on.
These things have been happening since five thousand years
ago.
The study of the ways of nature has led investigators to
inquire what depth of sincerity she intends in her fascinating
schemes by which the sexes are blinded to the faults of each
other. Is there any real charm, or is it merely her attempt
to bring the people together for the purpose of saving the
race ?
No question is more worthy of debate than this. Not if
there is such thing as true love, but is the charm, which is
admitted by all who know life at all to be a fact, a real endow-
ment intended to endure, or is it a makeshift used for the
sole purpose of bringing about the union of the two sexes ?
From time immemorial men and women have debated the
question, " Is there such a thing as love ? " And, when they
CHARMLAND 331
have replied that there is something that is so-called, they have
passed on to the further inquiry, " Is there such a thing as true
love ? " They have decided that there are different phases of
the regard that springs up between the two sexes, the first a
fancy, and the last a deep-seated attachment ; but that there
is a real, true, genuine first love possible all through life they
have doubted.
One thing has been unanimously agreed to by all normal
and intelligent men and women who have given the subject
a full analysis and test of many years' duration ;
and it is
this : There is a charm that nature throws about two persons
when they first begin to take an interest in each other, and
this charm is not surpassed or equalled by any other pleasure
in human life. This much is agreed to, and is known as a
proved fact.
Nor is it doubted by any person who knows anything of
the matter at all. It is universally accepted. But men who
do not think there is such a thing as love, whether true or
transitory, look upon the period of charm as the time of being
fooled. " That was the one time of my life when I was a
silly fool " has been said in substance more than one hundred
thousand times in every generation. The most exquisite
language of poetry tells nothing half so sweet and glorious as
the feelings of the young man whose whole thought has
suddenly been centred in a young woman whom he wants to
marry. There is nothing half so sweet in life as love, is an
older saying than any recorded axiom of this world.
Leaving out of our own account therein the word love and
substituting in its place the word charm, which is nearer the
fact, we will proceed to make a search for the truth. Of
course, we must use the word love when we quote from others,
and when the experience of others is made public ;
but our
own word is charm. In employing this term we make no
mistake, for it is a conceded fact that the charm has been
proven, while love takes shelter under many varying con-
ditions, changing as the years alter the associations. Thus
the maiden, sweet, pretty, demure, dainty, and all else that is
said of her, who fell in love with a grand man, a great man,
was charmed by his magnificent bearings, his lordly manner,
and his fine personality. The two looked together like grand-
332 SEX MAGNETISM
father and granddaughter. They were a pair in contrasts.
Yet he cared for her and she adored him. He wanted her
with him at all times, and she wanted to be near him. He
could not attend to his common duties without her love, and
she even aided him in everything. It was a charm that a
great man held for a pretty girl, and she for a great man.
Such a feeling could not exist between two persons of the
same sex. It required the difference to make it possible.
How did they become acquainted ?
He was overworked, bluff, stern, unyielding and unattrac-
tive except in his public appearances. In his apartments he
was known as a cross bear. He had many private secretaries,
and could not keep them on account of his bluntness and out-
spoken manner. They feared him and he would not relax
for the sake of policy and harmony. One morning, when he
was vexed by some delays, he roared to his secretary to do
this and do that and the other thing until the young man
slipped out and ran off, while he was still supposed to be in
the room behind his employer at the table. But the little lady, a
demure maiden of seventeen, who had called to see her brother,
the secretary, stood in the latter's place trembling. With a
final gigantic roar, the employer wheeled around in his chair
and beheld her. She was of flushed face, excited eyes, and
vibrating lips. He ceased to roar. He looked at her, and his
nature softened at once. She started to withdraw, but he
asked her to be seated and to tell her name. She stood at
the door and informed him that she was the sister of the young
man who had just run away.
" What did he run away for ?
" asked the employer.
" Because he was afraid of you, for you roared at him like
a lion."
" Well, I will not roar any more, at least not at your
brother. Go and see if you can find him."
The girl did as she was told, and soon returned with the
scared secretary. From that day ever afterwards the employer
addressed the young man as gently as one tender human being
can address another. It made no difference how much he
was tormented by things going wrong, he gave only the kindest
of treatment and the gentlest of words to the secretary. A
whole year passed before the girl and the employer were in
CHARMLAND 333
love with each other, and in those twelve months the brother
was the object of the deepest solicitation from the great man.
The latter must have been under the charm from the moment
when their eyes first met, for that was the dividing line between
his rough, masculine ways and his better nature. The secretary,
always discreet, never told his sister much about the man,
and once remarked in a casual way that his employer had
been as gentle as a lamb ever since she caught him in a tantrum.
She realized that he had been influenced by her coming in ;
but how could that one visit have held him down to such
good behaviour all these months ? Then the truth came into
her heart.
The union was a happy one, and still endures.
But there was no trick of nature to bring them together
in the same mood that the two young lovers are brought
under the charm. It was the delightful opposing of two sexes,
one created for sweetness and beauty, and the other for manli-
ness. Here are the potent factors of all charms in the sex
relations.
Just as long as a girl or woman realizes the fact that nature
made her to be beautiful, if not in face, at least in manners,
and also to be sweet and lovable, just so long will she have
her place in the world, and her true place ; but when she no
longer tries to be beautiful, or sweet, or lovable, then she will
fall back into the charmless period of humanity.
Just as long as a man realizes the fact that nature made
him to be manly, virile, honest and attractive in his manner
and conduct, just so long will he have his place in the world.
But the fellow, be he rough or smooth, be he a countryman
or a city-bred gentleman, who ceases to be manly is no longer
an attractive force in sex relationship. If he is not the soul
of honesty and of honour, then he is not a true man. And his
manners must be, as the word indicates, of the true man.
We have travelled much. We have lived in the city many,
many years, and in the country many, many years, and we
have studied human nature in all places and under all condi-
tions. In the country there is now and then a manly fellow,
perhaps rough in his etiquette, but well-built, of native intelli-
gence, without much book learning, and honest to the core.
There are young men rare, but nevertheless in existence, in
334 SEX MAGNETISM
whose blood never a drop of dishonest compound has entered ;
honourable and virile. They bear on their foreheads the stamp
of the kingly power. They may stay in the country, but if
they do they will be the best product of the soil. Many drift
to the city, and there in time tower over their fellow-beings.
There is no mistaking them. We picked out a hundred or more
of them in years past in widely separated localities, and all
these hundred have risen to the level that was given them by
the training of their younger years.
There are in the country smart, bright, naturally intelligent
young women with pleasing ways, gentle manners and kind
hearts full of sympathy and generous impulses. It can be
seen at a glance that these two sexes belong to each other.
The trouble is that love, being blind, the good judgment of
the young man will not be allowed to have its rightful oppor-
tunity. If he remains in the country to grow up a king, he
may never meet that particular kind of young woman that
should be his queen. If he goes to the city he may be captured
by some frail, sickly, indigestible shell of a girl, who has noth-
ing for him but complaints and doctors' bills ;
or, if she feels
well, she may be a confirmed bridge-player and loafer at
home ; and so his life is deprived of the happiness that a
better knowledge would give him.
To that kind of a man, whether he is raised in country,
town or city, his training course should come in time to save
him. Let him discover the temperament and fitness of the
woman before he weds her, or even promises to marry her.
If he adheres to the rules laid down in this book, he cannot
make a mistake.
To that kind of a young woman, whether she is raised in
the country or in the city or town, it is to be hoped that this
study will come in time to guide her to her true mate.
It is most pitiable that the kingly man should be shackled
to the empty woman, or that the queenly woman should be
bonded to the boor or the roue. Let like find like, and it
will be so if time and deliberation are allowed. It is haste
that makes waste in wedlock and in love.
But while these seem excellent as bits of advice, nature is
still laying her traps to catch the unwary. Nature does not
want you to wait. If you have a flower garden, nature will
CHARMLAND 335
not take care of it for you. With smiles and with jokes she
will run in foul weeds to see what you think of them. She
furnishes the impulses, and you must do the rest. You must
act. In marriage she gives that wonderful impulse that is
known as a charm, and she gives it early in life, so as not to
waste any time, and you are then given a head, inside of
which are brains, and she tells you how to get your brains
in working order and well poised, and then she steps aside
to see what you will do. The charm is potent, and the brains
are slow. When the charm is at its strongest then the
brains are almost stopped ; like the case of the Judge who
fell in love, and for five months could not see anything in the
cases before him except the bright, sweet side of human nature,
and he acted accordingly. Or, as Whittier says in one of his
poems, the Judge whistled an old love tune in court after he
had met a maiden that turned his heart over for him.
No matter what the strength of the charm may be, the brains
must not be allowed to stop their work. Nature is tricky enough
to have them cease ; but nature must be controlled. Do not
forget this fact. She would ruin your garden for you by letting
weeds grow where beautiful flowers are more effective ; and
she will let marriages run to weeds if you are not as much in
command of the charm-period as of the garden. Remember
these truths. Life's greatest ruins are built on the charms that
never grew into facts, but remained only a far-off mirage turned
upside down in the sky.
The brain is crafty. Nature is tricky. She takes the noblest
minds and works havoc with them at her own sweet will, if she
can but get a hold. Look at the history of great bankers, great
merchants, great statesmen, and the solidest characters in the
business and professional world, who have been giants in their
mental work, and yet who have lost their poise of mind when a
dainty skirt comes in view. As long as the true red blood
courses through the avenues of the heart, so long will nature
throw her charm over the strong man.
What kingly gentleman can withstand the glance of a
woman's eye when levelled full upon him from out of the misty
vale of fascinating interest ? "I wish that woman had not
come here," said a merchant one day, after he had been visited
in his office by a lady who sought contributions for charity.
336 SEX MAGNETISM
She was not married, he felt, for a married woman has a look
out of which the charm had gone years before ; and it takes
widowhood to bring it back. If there still remains any charm
whatever, it is for her husband, and even then it is not his unless
he wins and deserves it after marriage. The battle is not in
courtship, nor in the honeymoon, but in the hard, practical
days of married life shorn of its false pretences and allurements
that have no fact in them. Few married women can charm a
man. It is almost a contradiction on its face to say they can ;
for they have none of that virgin sweetness left in them since
once the veil was lifted from the hopes of married life.
There are three kinds of charms :
1. The attractions of a convenient marriage is the first kind.
2. The love-charm is the second kind.
3. The sensual charm is the third kind.
Let us look at the first for a moment. If a man and woman
are in good health, and he can give her a home and she can take
care of his house for him, that is the first or animal match. But
the same kind of union based on different motives takes place
when the man of title seeks and wins the woman of wealth. It
is the match of one commodity with another. None can be
happy. Some remain intact, but most fall to pieces by the law
of gravity lacking natural cohesion.
Royal marriages are spoken of, one time in ten or so, as love
matches ; and the union of Queen Victoria with Albert was of
the true but rare kind. In all that period of wedlock the charm
remained unbroken ;
just as strong at the end as when they
first met as young maiden and young man. That union will
stand for all time as the ideal type of love-charms.
But royal marriages are for the most part unions of con-
venience born in a national desire to keep the peace of the
world.
Before looking into the second class of charms, let us dispose
of the lowest of all, the third class. It is built upon mere physi-
cal desire ; not passion, for that is noble, but a sensuous pro-
pensity, which is an excess of the most common kind both in
and out of wedlock. Most women act on the defensive in this
matter, while in love of a pure kind they are rarely ever on the
defensive. Those who are evilly-disposed are in a class by them-
selves and ply their trade in all sorts of ways ; some by pretence
CHARMLAND 337
of goodness they possess not, and others by brazen attempts to
influence men.
But there is a better class of women who have attractions
and yet who do not feel true love, but who are always tempting
men by their treatment of them ; not one of whom can be said
to be of inherently evil heart. Some of them succeed in winning
proposals of marriage from the best men ; in which case they
are temperamentally mismated. Others draw to themselves
their own kind in this matter, but in all others they are mis-
matched, and they lead lives of cats and dogs. It is hardly
possible for a happy marriage to come out of mismating.
History is too full of the opposite results.
A woman who wishes a heart union should be careful not to
wed a man who is moved by these impulses ;
for, if she can
move him, then one of two things must be true :
1 . Either he does not deeply respect her ;
for, if he did, he
would never respond to certain quiet hints that she gives him
to test him.
2. Or, if he does care for her in the right way, he will be
just as easily led to another woman after marriage as he now is
led to her.
There are hundreds of little ways, all apparently accidental,
that can awaken a man's nature ; and it is true that clever
women have not hesitated to use them in order to find out what
kind of a character was seeking her hand in marriage.
Leaving now the extremes and coming to the middle ground,
we find the love-charm in all its glory awaiting discussion and
analysis. As has been said, it is known beyond all doubt to be
a fact as a charm, but the genuineness of its love nature is and
always will be the subject of conjecture. It is enough that it
exists as a fact.
We live in our emotions if we live humanly.
The charm that nature throws over the mind and the heart
when love knocks for admission into one's life is most blissful
while it lasts. It is not confined to any one class, so that it has
manliness and honesty in the man, and sweetness and lovable-
ness in the woman to found its power upon ;
and, having these,
it builds giant castles of the most superb architecture and
entrancing beauty.
It is the poetry of existence.
22
338 SEX MAGNETISM
Nowhere else in literature should we look to find it. True,
there is love in most novels ; and the modern playwright
cannot hope for success if he omits love from his drama. It
everywhere demands attention and in all ages and under
all conditions takes temporary possession of every healthy
man and woman. But the poet tells the story just as it
exists in the belief and experience of those who are held
in its spell.
Our language is as nothing compared with the true pictures
of the heart when this charm falls upon it. Some lines are
reproduced here from an anonymous writer ; and they take
the mind out into the plainest form of life, where it would
be supposed that only the hardships were to be found amid
an excess of commonplaces ; but the charm goes there if it
has the true heart to touch :
" Early on a sunny morning, while the lark was singing sweet,
Came, beyond the ancient farmhouse, sounds of lightly-tripping
feet.
'Twas a lowly cottage maiden going—why, let young hearts tell
With her homely pitcher laden, fetching water from the well.
Pleasant, surely, were her musings, for the nodding leaves in rain
Sought to press their brightening image on her ever-busy brain.
Leaves and joyous birds flew by her, like a dim, half-waking dream ;
And her soul was only conscious of life's gladdest summer gleam.
At the old lane's shady turning lay a well of water bright,
Singing, soft, its hallelujah to the gracious morning light.
Fern leaves, broad and green, bent o'er it where its silvery droplet*
fell,
And the fairies dwelt beside it in the spotted foxglove bell.
Back she bent the shading fern leaves, dipped the pitcher in
tide
Drew it, with the dripping waters flowing o'er its glazed side.
But before her arm could place it on her head of wavy hair,
By her side a youth was standing ! Love rejoiced to see the pair !
Tones of tremulous emotion trembled on the morning breeze,
Gentle words of heart devotion whispered 'neath the ancient trees ;
But the blessed, holy secrets, it becomes me not to tell
Life had met another meaning, fetching water from the well.
CHARMLAND 339
Down the rural lane they sauntered—he the burdened pitcher bore ;
She with dewy eyes, now dropping, grew more beauteous than
before !
When they neared the silent homestead, up he raised the pitcher light
Like a fitting crown he placed it on her hair of wavelets bright :
Emblems of the coming burdens that for love of him she'd bear,
Calling every burden blessed, if his love but lighted there.
Then, still waving benedictions, farther, farther off he drew,
While his shadow seemed a glory that across the pathway grew.
Now about her household duties silently the maiden went,
And an ever-radiant halo o'er her daily life was blent.
Little knew the maiden's mother, as the feet like music fell,
What abundant treasure found she, fetching water from the well."
In the foregoing picture of country love-charm several truths
are told. It is a fact that such experiences have come to
maidens ;
they are not denied the happiness of those who
live more sumptuously. Indeed, it is more than likely that the
simplest girls and women have the deepest yearnings. The
city girl thinks of the ice cream, the sweets, the theatres,
the drives, the furnishings of the house, the many dresses
needed to clothe her, and all the things that she must be pro-
vided with, or she will be miserable if her friends know what
a cheap husband she married. He is not able to keep up with
her wants, and they must soon part, he to go to some distant
locality where he can escape the courts, and she back to her
mother.
But the country girl has a home. Her lover has a
home. And they together will sometime have a third home,
all theirs. There is life all about them, plenty to eat and
to wear, and comforts of all kinds, with no hothouse
expenses such as rise up like spectres in the city ; no ice
cream to buy ; no expensive chocolates to buy ; no theatre
tickets to buy ;
nothing of elegance for the home furnish-
ings to be bought ; no series of half a dozen new dresses to
get every six months ; and nothing to bring on worry and
insanity in the fevered brain of the man or the broken heart of
the woman. So in the country maiden there is a larger share of
the real charm-love than in the city lady.
The poet tells us that this girl's musings were pleasant ;
she expected to meet him. Then we are told that gentle words
340 SEX MAGNETISM
of heart devotion trembled on the morning breeze ; but the
great fact of all is this :
" Life had met another meaning."
This fact overtops all others in value. Life, before running
in narrow grooves, now opened out, and a new meaning came
into it. Her dewy eyes drooping grew more beauteous than
before. How tenderly he handed her the little burden, having
carried it as far as he could ! The rest was hers to do ;
symbols
of life's history !
He left her side. Away he v^ent, slowly, always turning and
waving adieus to her as she watched him ; and then a glory
was over all the land.
She went in and took up her duties once more. They were
a pleasure to her. Work served to give her thoughts free
play. Days came and went, and an ever-radiant halo sur-
rounded them. Her feet, stepping from room to room, and
in the crowd of little duties that fell to her lot, made music
as she went about them ; while the old mother, unobserving
and not anxious to know that her child might divide her love,
was oblivious to the episode.
This is nature's law.
Light up the fires of your imagination and bring these facts
vividly before the mind. There is nothing overdrawn. The
charm is there, and it is simply portrayed ; told as naturally
and in as plain language as it might have been described
to the young lovers themselves.
She felt the charm. He felt it.
It was real. She may not have been as beauteous to others
as she seemed to him ; for life is lived in emotions, not in the
senses. But there would not have been another girl in all
the world for him at that time. She was thoroughly under
the spell of the charm.
It is the old story.
Now what we are interested in is to know how long it
lasted, and what became of it. When they met a second time,
or the next time after that episode, was she as beautiful and
he as attractive as before, or had the charm lessened ? Just
as soon as they had come to some understanding the power of
the halo would be decreased. But if they found it hard to
CHARMLAND 341
meet, or were not allowed to see each other often, or there
was rivalry, then " love that grows best with most pruning
"
would have been sustained under the spell of the intense charm.
Otherwise it would have dropped some ;
not much at a time ;
but some, and then more after that.
Such is the history of the world.
If men and women could build up the magnetic power of
mental sight such as is taught in Universal Magnetism, and
increase this power to its full magnetic size, they would have
eyes in their emotions, and not depend on the fading memories
to bring them joys.
Animals, even the best of them, and the animal grade of
humanity, live in their senses. But there is a grade better
than this and it has a higher realm in which to dwell. It is
not concurrent always, but often coincides with the all-
round mind of the man or woman who loves shadings of colours
and blendings of musical harmonies. The more animal the
mind is, the less variety of colour-effects it can see ;
not the
mechanical matching of goods in a store ;
but the softened
union of two natures in the light, symbolic of human love.
Animals do not know shades of colour, and few know more
than three different basic colours. To an animal-man, such as
a butcher or pork mind, the colour of red or blue is beautiful
but to a refined mind nothing is rich but the union and sensi-
tive blending of opposing shades.
The woman was right who said :
" If I were to pick a
husband I would select one who was with me and a group
of others at the coming on of twilight in the summer sky,
following the descent of the glowing ball of fire amid a bed
of clouds. I saw a dozen or more young men the other
evening, and as many young women, sitting on a hotel balcony
when a wonderful scene was transpiring in the western sky.
I could have picked couples then and there who were adapted
for each other. Most of the young men were smart. They
saw nothing of the glory that God was painting in ever-changing
colours in the clouds and on the vapours there. One young man
saw all that was being enacted ; and far from him, not even
known to him, sat a young lady who was also enraptured. There
were the two who would have been happy together for life."
She spoke truly.
342 SEX MAGNETISM
The smart young men, flip and silly, shallow of ideas and
of sense, saw nothing. Had their attention been called to
the scene they would have thought " rot," even if they did
not dare to say it. Yet they were well-dressed, versed in
society manners and believed in their own ability to win
whatever women they sought ; so great and common was
their conceit. They are like the great tide of men that surge
over the world ; smart in talk, low in ideas, and flip in mind.
The young man who saw God in the heavens, who watched
the wavering streams of light gleaming through the clouds,
who noted the ever-shifting hand of the Painter sending His
colours here and there to adorn the vapours and make them
breathe with beauty, who felt that a sea was engulfing the
world and out of it a new city was rising to bring back the
kingdom of heaven to men, was rich in mind. He was capable
of living as he felt, and of appreciating the charm of love
as it comes to him from a pure heart.
At some distance from him sat the young woman whom
he did not know. Her eyes were fixed on the unspeakable
glory of the burning sky, in which she saw many colours
and infinite shadings. Her heart was full of thankfulness
that earth could be so beautiful.
It may be that this young man was already engaged to
marry some flighty girl who could not see in such a sky
anything more than something that would match her dress.
It may be that the young lady was already engaged
to some man who had a pork-brain, and to whom music and
harmony of colours would be no more than the streakings
of a slice of ham. If such mating was made, it would mean
the loss of a lifetime of happiness to both.
For they belonged to each other.
There were two temperaments that were bound to har-
monize.
Assuming that she could pass through the refinements of
the various chapters of this study, and that he could do the
same, they would come to each other in the purity of a natural
charm that, with careful watching, could be made to endure
for a lifetime. Here is one of the many tests of temperamental
fitness that are contained in this work.
It is the same with musical shadings. The tune that
CHARMLAND 343
catches the slang ear, like jazz, is not a blending of musical
shadings such as are found in classical harmonies. The latter
are not understood by the untrained ear at first ; but there was
never a fine-grained man who did not in time learn to prefer
these better airs to the footbeat tunes of the commoner grade.
Then it is the same with flowers.
They are efforts of God to talk to humanity. They are
the kindnesses of heaven speaking to the hearts of men and
women and to the souls of little children. What is more
enjoyed by the boy or girl than a holiday ramble into the fields
and woods to gather these little messengers ; and yet how few
fathers will take the time away from their selfishness to form
so intimate an acquaintance with their little ones ? How the
heart of that wife and mother aches and yearns for the com-
panionship of the man who once was charmed by her beauty,
and who now takes his holiday off with coarse men, to smoke
and talk in the vocabulary of their class ; all different from
the language that he used when he told her that she was
more to him than all the world besides. He cares nothing for
flowers, and the last bunch he bought her on her first birthday
after they were married he threw in at the door and went off
to have a smoke ; and never saw them again.
In Charmland there are beautiful colours, rich in art and
flush with nature ; and there are beautiful harmonies told in
music that inspires ; and there are flowers that speak more
eloquently than language of the human tongue. Once a man
who tried to tell the woman how much he cared for her found
the words choking in his throat, and he took a rose from its
fellows and laid it in her hand. Then she took one and kissed
it, and this he grasped eagerly for his own. Thus the flowers
talked, for they bloom in all sweethearts for sweethearts.
Tennyson, writing of Charmland for lovers, speaks in the
vocabulary of many flowers :
" 1 am here at the gate alone ;
And the woodbine spices are wafted abroad ;
And the musk of the roses blown.
For the breeze of morning moves,
And the planet of Love is on high,
Beginning to faint in the light that she loves,
On a bed of daffodil sky.
344 SEX MAGNETISM
All night have the roses heard,
All night has the casement jessamine stirred.
I said to the lily, '
There is but one
With whom she has heart to be gay.'
I said to the rose, '
The brief night goes,'
And the soul of the rose went into my blood
From the meadow your walks have left so sweet
That, whene'er a March wind sigh,
He sets the jewel-prints of your feet
In violets blue as your eyes,
To the woody hollows in which we meet,
And the valleys of Paradise.
The slender acacia would not shake
One long milk-bloom on the tree ;
The white lake blossom fell into the lake,
As the pimpernel dozed on the lea ;
But the rose was awake all night for your sake,
Knowing your promise to me ;
The lilies and roses were all awake,
They sighed for the dawn and thee.
Queen rose of the rosebud garden of girls,
Come hither—the dances are done ;
In gloss of satin and glimmer of pearls,
Queen lily and rose in one ;
Shine out, little head, sunning over with curls,
To the flowers and. be their sun.
There has fallen a spendid tear
From the passion-flower at the gate.
She is coming, my love, my dear,
She is coming, my life, my fate !
The red rose cries, '
She is near, she is near '
;
And the white rose weeps, *
She is late.'
The larkspur listens, '
I hear, I hear,'
And the lily whispers, '
I wait.'
She is coming, my own, my sweet !
Were it ever so airy a tread,
My heart would hear her and beat,
Were it earth in an earthly bed ;
My dust would hear her and beat,
Had I lain for a century dead ;
Would start and tremble under her feet,
And blossom in purple and red."
CHARMLAND 345
Despite the fullness of poetic fancy depicted in these verses,
they tell of the real charm that a girl weaves over a man's
life. She may be false to him, as is indicated in these lines
just quoted from the great poet ; but she is the focus of
nature's fire in the heart of man. What is written in this
warm poem has been written millions of times in the inner
soul of lovers who have waited for the grace that came too
slowly to satisfy them.
How much real control can a woman create in her own
nature and use to secure the mastery over a man ?
Her power is almost unlimited.
In the first place, she should create in her character a new
level, and this must be done as taught in the fourth and fifth
chapters of this book. Having laid this secure foundation,
she must next rise to the standard set in the ninth chapter.
The magnetic margins belong to marriage, as far as this
control is concerned, and they need not be considered at this
time. But it is certain that if she has put into practice the
doctrines taught in the chapters named, then she has grown
more beautiful and more lovable. There are three ideas she
must keep in her mind at all times, night and day, during her
waking hours. They are these :
To be beautiful in demeanour. To be sweet in disposition.
To be lovable in character.
If you who read these lines are a woman, read them again
and still again, and say to yourself that
YOU must be beautiful in demeanour. If you have adopted
the teachings of the fourth, fifth and ninth chapters herein,
then your face will show quite differently from what it did
before you began the study. These lessons have been taught
in private for more than a quarter of a century, and photo-
graphs have been taken to show the remarkable change that
comes over the features under their influence. Try it. Have
your likeness taken just as you begin this training ;
then, at
the end of a year of earnest following of the instruction ;
and if you have been sincere in your adoption of these teach-
ings, you will see a great difference in your own face. Beauty
is the reflection of something real. That which passes for
beauty is an empty face, is merely shape and colour ;
and they
346 SEX MAGNETISM
both pass away with the first change, and they never come
again.
Look to the character.
YOU must be sweet in disposition. This means that you
must not be cross, irritable, acid, sharp, critical, severe, sar-
castic or mean. Be generous, and be patient. Never say what
is hasty and ill-considered, and never think what you cannot
say or should not utter aloud. The face is a mirror of the
mind and heart.
YOU must be lovable in character. You can make yourself
so if you are so resolved. It all depends on what you decide
to do. But there must be substance as the foundation of any
character building, and the only solid ground on which to set
your house is found in the fourth, fifth and ninth chapters
of this work. Master them. Then come to your own will-
power and exercise it in real earnest.
Beautiful. Sweet. Lovable.
These are the three traits of woman.
Are you beautiful. How do you know one way or the
other ? Do you think you can make yourself beautiful with
face rouge, and pencil, with belladonna in the eyes, with hair
waved, and with a baby stare on the countenance ? You may
deceive a worthless man by such things, but never a real
man. He will find you out. You may hurry a worthless
fellow into a hasty marriage, thinking that once you have
crossed the line of wedlock with him you have him tight
and sound ;
but he may leave you at a time when you cannot
afford to be left, and your last condition will be worse than the
first. Such pretences of beauty fade away. No art can take
the place of the mind and the soul in the face ; and if you
have an unlovable mind and a cheap soul you cannot cover
them up with face powder.
The more you depend on the artifices of colour and smooth-
ness to hide the blotches of character in your features, the less
successful you will be. The man of the next few years is not to
be deceived by any subterfuge. He is going to know what he is
getting, and he will not take what he does not want. Tears,
smiles, sadness, ingeniousness and all the shifts of women are
known now to men. They want a real woman who is :
Beautiful ; but not in colour or skin necessarily.
CHARMLAND 347
Sweet ; but not assumed and dramatic ballet-girl smiles.
Lovable ; but with the character of her mind and her heart
stamped in her face to stay there.
Now, if you who read these lines are a man, read them
again, and still again, and say to yourself that
You must be noble, virile, manly and attractive.
Here are four traits that belong, not to woman, but to man.
The second and third are nearly the same, and may be regarded
as one.
Say at all times to yourself
YOU must be noble. The woman must be beautiful ; that
you will admire in her. You must be noble ; that she will
admire in you. The handsome woman is womanish. The noble
man is masculine. The woman who thinks a man most noble
often mixes her adjectives and calls him handsome by mistake.
To be noble, you must be above all petty feelings, all petty
habits and all the errors mentioned in the third chapter of
this book. Then you must make yourself master of the fourth,
fifth and ninth chapters of this work. They will help you,
just as they have helped the woman and just as their teachings
have helped hundreds of men in the past to rise out of their
smallnesses and be true to themselves and to the sex of
which they are members.
YOU must be manly. This means that you must have
strength of mind, strength of will, strength of purpose, strength
of body, strength of character, and all the traits that separate
a mean man from one that is of high stature. Women like
manly men. You like a woman when she is sweet ; she likes
you when you are virile, which is the moral side of manliness ;
honest, fair, generous, true to the best principles of the
human race.
YOU must be attractive. You like the woman who is
lovable ; she likes the man who is attractive. What is the use
of being noble and manly, and not clean, nor kind, nor of good
habits in personal matters ? Her love is pleasing to you and is
magnetic ; and your attractiveness is just the same to her. You
can make yourself more and more attractive every day if you
will get down to the resolution to do so, and then live to it
through thick and thin. Women want men who are :
Nolle ; but not in birth of title so much as in birth of blood.
348 SEX MAGNETISM
Manly ; not in sports and games, but in nature, disposition
and honour.
Attractive ; but not alone in dress, nor in artificial manners
and the forms of society, so much as in personal habits and
genuine worth. True men are wanted ; men who deserve the
best love of the best woman that lives on earth to-day. Get her;
she is yours. Let her have in exchange the best fellow that
draws the breath of life in this wide world.
You, men, can be getting better all the time. It is not hard
work if you are in earnest. Remember those chapters, the
fourth, fifth and ninth. Master them. Take them along with
you in thought, and write a short synopsis of them for ready
reference wherever you may be. They may be glanced at when
you are in the car, the train, walking, or in the intervals
between the duties of the day. There are hundreds of little
moments when they can be read and their truths brought closer
to you as a means of help and inspiration.
You women can be getting sweeter and more lovable all
the time. Do not think or believe otherwise. Whatever you
make up your mind to do, you will do successfully and com-
pletely. Do not falter.
Charmland has been yours in the past ;
perhaps for a day,
and more likely for a week or more. It was yours until that
fatal answer when you made the conquest certain, when the
promises were exchanged, and then all you had to do was to
sit and look at each other and wonder what to do next. The
lover wanted Maud to come into the garden, that he might
tell her that he loved her. She was an attractive country
girl, nothing more ;
perhaps vain, and not too deep in sin-
cerity. He loved her the more because she cared for the
men of higher rank. She was at the all-night ball, where he
was not desired, as he had not the manners of the better
social classes. He was worthy of a good girl. She was flattered
by the attentions of the immoral fellows of social rank, who
cared nothing for her except what was wrong. She could
float around the ballroom in their arms, but she could not
be received in their parents' mansions. The country fellow
who talked with the flowers when he was there at the gate alone
stood in Charmland in hope only ; when Venus rose in the
east above the coming sun he was still conversing with the
CHARMLAND 349
flowers, and still his girl was dancing with men he did not
want to embrace her. She had been willing to walk with him
through the meadow, and the March winds, cold and bleak, had
set violets in the jewel-prints of her feet, every step of which
led them towards Paradise. They had been happy together, or
he would not have recounted these experiences. Then the
passion flower at the gate drops a splendid tear, and the rose
that is red gives hope, the rose that is white gives fear, and
the larkspur and lily add their surmises ; but she comes
at last.
Symbolic of human yearnings as these lines are, they tell
the story of that Charmland towards which every man and
every woman of good, red blood has once trod in eager steps
to see what lies beyond. Few have gone over the portals.
They stop short of bliss because they have not the character
and the value in their nature to receive welcome within.
One thing is true—no woman can ever enter Charmland
alone. No man can ever enter Charmland alone. Two women
cannot enter Charmland together. It is for one man and for
one woman ; and they must be together, rightfully together,
heart in heart, mind in mind, and soul in soul. They must
be man and wife, married according to the laws of the land in
which they live ; and they must be true to each other ; true
to the letter and the spirit of the wedding vows ; true to
their home and true to their God.
Then they can enter Charmland, if they will make them-
selves what they must be in order to draw and to hold, each
the other, for life and for ever ; the man must be noble, manly
and attractive in all his nature ; and the woman must be beauti-
ful, sweet and lovable.
They now will enter Charmland.
Sometimes circumstances mould the character of two per-
sons into one final form that can never separate. Fate takes
the place of training, but gives just the qualities that train-
ing imparts. To illustrate this natural drift of life, the following
authentic histories are repeated here :
One case is that which has had its duplicates many times,
except in one essential. The man entered the hospital poor,
and during his illness became the heir of a large property,
of which he and all others there knew nothing. There was
350 SEX MAGNETISM
no chance for information to reach anyone connected with
the institution. The man had been stricken with typhoid,
and was removed to the hospital by the advice of a local phy-
sician. In the ward where he was placed there was a young
woman who nursed him. She was there by reason of her
desire to learn how to care for the sick. She owned a large
estate that yielded an income, which she spent in doing good
for others.
Thus the usual conditions were reversed.
In most instances it is the rich man and the poor girl who
nurses him ; but it was the poor man and the rich nurse in this
history.
In his delirium, such as attends this kind of fever, he
became wild, and threatened to run away from the place. She
was not strong, but she resisted him, and was badly hurt in
the struggle, so much so that her life was despaired of. When
he became conscious and was convalescent he asked for her, and
was at a later time told the facts. He got well at last, and had
her brought to the home of his mother. At that time he had
received word of his good fortune under a will ; but she had no
knowledge of it. She remained ill for many months, and then
it was announced that she would recover. She had been living
at a hotel in the city before she became a nurse. Now she
wished to return, but the man's mother prevailed upon her to
stay. The home was humble in the extreme, and the nurse
desired to pay liberally for the attention she had been receiving.
The best medical care had been bestowed upon her, and there
was nothing left undone that could be done for her benefit
in order to hasten her recovery.
She noticed that the man had no employment, for he stayed
in the house much of the time, and was at her bedside con-
stantly. Flowers that were inexpensive, but attractive, were
brought in fresh every day. The man had not allowed his
mother to know of the wealth that had fallen to him for fear
she would tell the invalid. The period of convalescence was
long and tedious ; but the man still spent much of his time
in the little home.
To the sick woman, on her pressing inquiry, the mother con-
fessed that her son was rather poor, but that he had been a hard
student and was sure to rise in the world. The invalid said, " I
CHARMLAND 351
have plenty of money and will see that he has a good position
as soon as I get well."
To him she said, " You were not to blame for what happened
in the hospital, and I fear that you believe you are. You are
not under any debt to me because of that. It is one of those
chances that all nurses must take everywhere."
Still he said nothing to indicate that he cared for her.
When she got well she offered him a position, which he
declined with thanks and in full sincerity of gratitude for her
kindness. He said that he had made plans that would interfere
with his acceptance of such an honour from her. Here the
mystery began. She instituted an investigation about this man
and found that he had never been anything more than a poor
fellow who was somewhat of a dreamer, and yet well-educated
and a gentleman by nature. His clothes were plain and inexpen-
sive, the home was most humble, but neat and very comfortable,
and he was always in attractive condition, despite evidences of a
struggle to keep up appearances. He owed no bills, as he had
drawn from his new fortune, and had paid in full all the debts
that he had incurred by reason of his long illness and rest. His
mother still knew nothing of the wealth that had fallen to him,
and this lady nurse was unaware of it. While he could draw
all the money he needed, he purposely kept up the appearance
of being poor, but out of debt.
She was in wonderment at what it all indicated.
Surely, she thought, he had some means laid away from
which he could obtain a frugal allowance ; but she could not
find out where it was or the source of income that seemed to
supply him with funds. As a friend of his mother, she not only
called at the humble home, but made it her place of constant
visit, until she seemed a part of the household. This friendship
lasted for months, and in all that time she could not induce him
to allow her to even share part of her own cost of living there.
Then she threatened to never come again except on a social call,
at which he smiled. This aggravated the situation. " Now I
am in earnest," she said. " I need an educated man to assist me
in some of my financial plans, and you can have the position at a
salary to be named by you." She had never, since her illness,
returned to nursing, and was free to carry on other work of a
charitable and helpful kind. He accepted the position and
352 SEX MAGNETISM
named a salary of four pounds a week. To this she demurred,
as she could not employ a man who was not worth at least nine
pounds a week. But she was held to her offer, and he received
the four pounds a week, every penny of which he spent in
beautiful flowers for his mother and the young woman who
employed him.
" How can you live if you spend all you earn ?
" she asked,
somewhat vexed.
" I am not a good financier. But if you will tell me how I
earn four pounds a week doing work that requires less than an
hour a day, I will tell you how I live when I spend all I earn."
" You are a man of mystery," she replied. " Will you not
confide in me ? I want to help you, and I am able to do so ; but
I cannot understand you. Is there some person who is supplying
you with funds, or have you in the past lived humbly in order
that you may save money, and are now using it ? Will it soon
be gone ? Please tell me."
He took from his pocket a roll of pound notes and said to
her :
' 1
See, I have money. Would you believe that I am a gambler
if I told you so, and that I make money in that way, assuming
by day the appearance of a poor man of leisure ?
"
She said she would not believe it. " As I look into your
face, and as I know you and have known you for months, I
feel and am sure that you are the best man I have ever met.
I know it surely. Nothing you could tell me of ill would be
accepted by me as anything more than jest. I do not know
how you get money, but I will say from the depths of my heart
that you receive it honestly."
"It is true, I receive it honestly. I have earned much
in the past and have not spent it all as fast as I have earned
it," he replied ; and he spoke the truth.
" But you will soon exhaust the fund you have laid away
from past earnings, and then your mother will suffer."
" No, she will never suffer from lack of money as long as I
live, or afterwards, if she survives me," he replied.
" Still I do not understand," said the young woman.
" What I want is your full confidence. Can I help you in any
way \
"
" I am trying to find out two things. In the first place, I
CHARMLAND 353
want to know if I really care for you as much as I believe I
do, and have believed for months. Then I want to know if
you care for me at all."
" I will not tell you until you have learned the answer to
your first inquiry. When you know for sure that you care
for me then I will tell you if I care for you."
" Do you know ?
"
" Assuredly I know."
" What do you know ?
"
" I know the answer to both your questions, and have
known for months better than you know."
" Would you accept a poor man as a husband and be willing
to support him in idleness all his life ?
" he asked.
" I will accept a man like you and take my chances of
having a worthy husband who will work when he has work
to do. I know something of the law of temperaments and
we both have the same dispositions in this regard. We will
not have occasion to disagree. I want only one promise, and it
is this : There has been a charm in my life ever since I came
to love you, and I know that you have felt the same influence.
To me it seems divine. Whatever it is, I wish our marriage
to be delayed until we can analyse it and grasp its meaning
and its nature. I wish to have that same feeling of supreme
happiness follow all through our lives. Let us study it, and
find out what it is, and how we can keep it with us for ever."
They came to a complete understanding and were married.
Years have passed since that event, and they still dwell in
Charmland, simply because they made up their minds to do so.
Most people are willing to live in such a realm if they can
find somebody to push them there and to hold them there ;
but they are not willing to make the effort to get there. They
drift. It is easier to drift than it is to row against the stream.
Life is made up of rowing up stream or drifting ; fish swim
against the current, for they know that in such direction only
is there safety for them.
Nothing is ever gained by drifting.
How many men and women are there in the world who are
down. Dead fish let the current take them along ; all five
willing to make the effort % In one thousand you may find,
perhaps, ten who care to take the trouble ; the others let the
354 SEX MAGNETISM
trouble take them. Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,
and eternal effort is the price of happiness. Here is a couple
that is provided with all the good things of life, except the
disposition to be on guard against the little enemies of Charm-
land. What are these little enemies ?
1. They are, in the first place, the offences to the senses
that are described in the third chapter of this book. They
work havoc in the feelings of respect and appreciation that
the wife should, and wants, to have for her husband, and
that he should have for her. As most married people drift
along in these matters, they soon become dead fish floating
down stream. It takes manliness to row against the tide. It
takes womanliness to be alert and watchful of these little
faults. Like the rolling mass of snow, beginning at first in
a tiny ball, they gather force and danger as they proceed
along by the law of gravity.
2. Another group of offences is found in the erratic dis-
positions of men and women. As described in the tenth
chapter, there comes a constant weariness and loss of vitality
that takes away the bright " fine edge " of a person's
good nature, and it is then so easy to let drop a remark or
to do some small thing, trifling in itself, that annoys and
frets another. This shows that a pleasant disposition, no matter
how deeply rooted it may be in one's life, is not as deep as
the fundamental character ;
for, when things go wrong and
efface the good nature, the rock basis is always a cross word
or a cuss word.
Good nature is not a veneer in some fives.
It is assumed in many cases, as when the woman who is
tired-out, as nearly all women are, has nothing but ugly looks
and sharp words for her family, will change in a flash when a
visitor enters. Then the face puts on a smile, the manners
are gentle, and the words kind. That is veneer, because it
is not natural ; it is not a habit ; it is not the fundamental
character. When the woman is again alone with her family
she shows herself as she is.
It is this veneer that rubs off so quickly in marriage.
The man knows what he is at all times when no one is
around to whom he must appear to advantage. He knows
how he treats his parents, his brothers and sisters, and the
CHARMLAND 355
children, servants and others day by day, and yet when he
calls upon his girl he assumes politeness, good nature, care-
ful words, and all that is calculated to please and impress.
That is veneer.
It is as sure to rub off as is the surface gloss on cheap
wood.
The man who is thus constituted must know, if he thinks
at all, that his wife will very soon see him as he is under the
veneer. In other words, you cannot be one kind of a person
ninety per cent of the time, and another kind of a person
ten per cent of the time, and drift into the latter kind when
you relax your severe vigilance. In all stresses of weather
you will fall back to the level that is most usual in your habits.
Before you are married, stop and look at yourself. How
have you been in your hours of loneliness, in your hours of
work, in the family associations, and among the servants,
children and common classes whom you meet ?
You say that when you are married you will be careful.
But you cannot be careful then, as there are more things to
tax your patience and fret you than when you are responsible
only to yourself ; and your true level will be struck so soon
that you will be dazed, and will bring the shock of an awaken-
ing to your wife. This has occurred millions of times in every
year, and will never cease as long as people think they can
be one thing most of the time, and the other thing when they
please.
The groundwork of a better self is built in the hours when
there is no reason for putting on. If it is a veneer, then so be
it ; but remember that veneers deepen with each new layer,
and each period of self-presence when no one is watching you,
or when your mother, your father, your sisters and brothers,
and the children and servants are all the objects to behold you,
then put on veneer, and keep on doing so until ninety per cent
of your life is veneer and the other ten per cent is cross words
and cuss words, and then you will have a level to which you
will rise on each rebound from your poise in marriage, and such
rebounds come thick and fast at times, but grow less and vanish
when the new veneer is deep enough.
This experience has been tried and found practicable.
It makes a man manly.
356 SEX MAGNETISM
The woman has the same struggle ahead of her if she is to
be lovable, and all good women wish to be sweet and attractive.
Some wives imagine that their beauty is the continual feast
on which their husbands will find delight. Beautiful women and
handsome men read your fate in these lines. If you have
nothing to offer each other but beauty and handsome looks,
you will find that an empty mind and an empty heart will
not long satisfy the double demands made upon them ; for
they are double if you and your consort both must depend on
them for sustenance of interest.
To them there is no Charmland.
It is the height of human emotions to seek something better
than life's commonplaces. Let the feeling be what it will, the
one end sought by true heart and full mind is a different
garnishing of existence. One man has wisely said that if men
and women could live in the atmosphere which is created by
the first impressions of two lovers ere they had come to an
understanding, a happiness would overspread all the earth
that would give it a touch of heaven.
It is thought by most people that money secures life's
supreme enjoyment ; but it has very little to do with it.
What would you do to make your wife happy if she were just
now at the threshold of your wooing ? You would make every
promise that would please her. But how many of them would
you fulfil ? If you had the power, you say, you would give
her just the home she would like. And what is that ? Pictures
of the mind flow into words and you build a cottage or a
mansion, surrounded with fairy scenes ; but she might be
afraid to live so far away from the rest of the world. The palace
might bring the burdens of great cares which she would be
crushed under ; and the cottage might be too lonely for her.
The gardens might bring insects, and the foundations might be
damp. It all depends on what is in the heart and in the mind
rather than what is around one's life.
Infinite patience, infinite care, infinite watchfulness, infinite
self-restraint bring the joys of Charmland.
Remember that your good-nature is an outer crust resting
on the unattractive ground beneath it in your make-up ; and
when anything happens to break that outer crust and your
good-nature is fractured, the underground is revealed, and it
CHARMLAND 357
is always ugly and repellent. The best disposition in the
world has this basis of ill-nature ; all you have to do is to crack
the veneer and there it shows itself. Guard your words and
your manner in order that you will not display to your consort
the character that underlies your life. On the other hand,
build a deeper and stronger veneer all the time and make it
so vital that it will endure the severest shocks of irritability
and worry, of annoyance and mishap. Be patient all the
time. Be careful all the time. Be watchful all the time. Be
self-restrained all the time. Pull against the stream. Never
drift. Try to be something better than you are.
Then put into practice the methods of the coming chapter,
by which you can build a new power in your own personality
that shall eventually bring Charmland into that blessed rela-
tionship—marriage.
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE
HUMAN life is made up of facts and feelings. Facts bring
nothing of themselves. All we enjoy and all we dislike
must be found in feelings. Facts are the things and transactions
of existence. Work is a fact. Pounds and shillings and bank
accounts are facts, if they can be had. The lack of them in
most persons leads to the feelings of disappointment and
sufferings. The ground is a fact ;
grass, trees, shrubs, fruits
and flowers are facts ; and so are bricks, stones, wood, tools
furnishings for the house, clothes, and whatever else can be
seen, heard, handled, tasted, smelt or known. Deeds, bonds,
securities, income, profit and loss are facts.
It is a rule of human life that a fact brings of itself no
reward, but it may become the agent of feelings that are
pleasing or repellent. Thus there was a time, and there were
people in that time, who saw no happiness in the possession
of money ;
to-day all persons who have an earning capacity
are fond of money. But the money in itself, and of itself
cannot bring help or harm. It is the root of all evil if it prompts
crime, avarice, wrong-doing, worship of false ideas and a narrow
existence. It is the source of much good if it checks crime,
brings health, ensures comfort, and sets up homes where love
may prevail. The evil that money does is in its getting. A
miserly disposition may hold to it after it is secured ; but
many a wicked heart plots for its getting ; and, when it is
obtained in abundance and over-abundance, then the opposite
impulses may prompt its distribution.
In winning a hoard there are hours and days of unscrupulous
effort to secure the wealth, little or great, that is seemingly
wanted for the doubtful years ahead. It is in this wrong
seeking that homes are often wrecked ; and husband and wife
are brought to a lasting hatred of each other. Here is a woman
sixty years of age, with a husband some years older. By scrap-
ing hard, living in a mean spirit all their married lives, using
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 359
each other as horses are used, for what benefit can be taken
in money value out of the labour of each and by earning a
name among neighbours for closeness and grasping that will
outlive them by a decade or more, they have plodded along
in the one desire to lay away a few more shillings every week.
The woman goes to bed at night counting the shillings in
prospect ; and she can tell to a penny all the thousands she
has in the bank, and what interest it is making each day. She
is saturated all night long with counting and figuring up of
pounds in the bank, in chickens, in the little shop with its
five pounds' worth of stock, and in the coming days of grasp-
ing avarice.
Her face is a sight that would blast an honest heart to look
upon ; it is livid with the yearning for more money ;
pinched
with the fear of want, although she has eight thousand pounds
bearing interest and bringing an income three times more
than she can spend or ever need in the sorest straits that may
be ahead of her ; her husband is working like a horse, sometimes
lazy, sometimes alert, but responding to this eternal fever of
the soul for more money being animal in his appetites, animal
in his looks, animal in his enjoyment of the food and shelter the
meanness of life accords him ; and she is flitting from home to
chickens, and from chickens to the cheap, tawdry store, opening
the till to count the money she counted half-an-hour before,
and smiling as some stray patron parts with another penny
that is to go into the same till.
The home is in keeping with the characters that dominate
it. Every piece of furniture in it is counted each day, and its
first cost and present value known, and there it rests sacred
from use except in narrow fines which must be trod on tiptoe
for fear of wearing off a shred or two. The people all around
laugh up their sleeves, sneer to each other, smile in the faces
of this despicable and despised couple, pass a word of good
cheer as though they cared for them, and as soon as they
are out of sight again they have their low-toned jeers and
furtive glances for the wonders of money-mad meanness.
Not a man, woman or child can be found in a large city that
has a good word to speak of them, although they speak pleas-
antly to them. There is talk, talk, talk all the time about their
habits, and the generosity they displayed when they gave a few
360 SEX MAGNETISM
shillings to charity in one year, and called on their acquaintances
for three years afterwards to keep the fact alive.
This couple is typical of many others ; the amounts may be
slightly inaccurate, but the facts are known to be true, and the
principle stands the same everywhere. It makes no difference
how much or how little the accumulations may be, the soul that
strives on to add to it when there is nothing at stake is bringing
the curse of money into marriage, where some little sunshine
should have been expected.
There are women to-day who are using their husbands as
horses are used to save where they need not to save. They
know nothing of happiness, and care only for the time when,
as widows, they will still have the money that their parsimony
squeezed out of the toil of their husbands. There are husbands
who care nothing for their wives, except the housework they
can extract from their muscles, who bring never a word of
cheer to them, nor care for their happiness. If these men and
women must squeeze animal value from each other, why not
add now and then a moment of hope for something better, if
it can be done without costing anything ?
Take as examples the couple in question. There is an income
of about three hundred pounds a year. They spend less than
one hundred and twenty pounds a year. On the law of averages,
he will live less than three years more, and she less than five.
But in their belief, he will live twenty years longer, and she as
long. Suppose both were to lose their earning capacity and must
employ servants ; even then they would never spend their
income. Under the most lurid extravagance, in which they
would throw out money like water in Niagara, as it would seem
to them, they could not possibly spend their income. When
they die they have no one to inherit their accumulations ; he is
cursed with relatives who despise him, and he could not allow
them to receive a penny ; and she has been sized up so accurately
by her relatives for years that she would not allow them to
receive a penny of her money ; and it will all go to freak
bequests.
With an income far greater than she could spend, she was
offered a sea cruise costing two pounds a day ; and was eager
for it, for herself and her husband, as they " both needed a
change so much," but she declined with emphasis when she
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 361
found that other people were not to pay her expenses. Never
has there been a breath of fresh air get into their lungs from
country, or river, or ocean, or drive, if somebody else did not
pay the expense. Fifty shillings or fifty pounds is all the same
to them ; it is too much ;
and, when they die, more than six
thousand pounds will go to no one they ever knew or cared for.
People talk about them ;
eye them ; sneer at them ;
are
pleasant to their faces, and sarcastic behind their backs, as
people always are when they live in a community with meanness.
There is no cordiality of intercourse between this family and
others. There is nothing that takes their attention away from
the sordid lust when Sundays come, or when holidays bring
their invitations of happiness. Christmas is a dull day to them,
all the hallowed memories and tender thoughts being jammed
down under the hat of greed and lust for money. On one Sun-
day they went to church, and as a threepenny piece was the
smallest change they had with them, they were compelled to
part with it, but the experience made such a deep impression on
their minds that they never walked again on a street where
there was a church if they could avoid it without wearing out
too much sole leather. And for years they told time by the date
of this occurrence ; as when they would say, " It happened
three weeks after that Sunday when we put a threepenny-piece
in the contribution box," or words to that effect.
Money is a fact. Earning money is a fact. Saving money is
a fact. Lay two pounds on the table and let it stay there, and
see what it will do. It will not turn itself into shoes, nor into
food, nor into clothing, nor into a cruise for enjoyment of
the world that God has made for the pleasure of human beings.
As long as that money remains there on the table it will be
lifeless and useless. Putting it in the pocket-book is a fact.
Putting it into the bank is a fact. Allowing it to remain in the
bank is a fact. It cannot do good as long as it is carried in the
purse or left in the bank. Not until it turns itself into some-
thing that is more than a fact will it bring pleasure or comfort
or ease or value.
The same is true of labour.
There are two great ends in all work. One is the power it
makes to bring something more than fact ; for toil is a fact.
The other end sought by nature is life in the body. The muscles,
362 SEX MAGNETISM
bones, tendons, cords, nerves and all parts tell the one great
fact that activity is life, and life is activity. Not in rest is
there pleasure. Not in idleness is there life. The sunlight is
absolute blackness until it strikes the atmosphere which
envelops this earth. Out in space, where there are no shadows,
you would expect to find a dazzling light from the sun and
stars ;
and you imagine that because Venus and Mercury are
so near to the great central orb, they must be unendurably hot ;
but out in space there is no heat. Everything is colder than our
own North Pole. Light is activity, and heat is activity. This
earth would have no heat and no light from the sun if it did not
possess an atmosphere to be made active. Where there is noth-
ing to be given activity, there can be neither heat, nor light, nor
life. Our world would be black, cold and dead.
It is, therefore, our wonderful enveloping atmosphere that is
aroused to respond to the action of the light, so-called, that
comes from the sun. The fact is that it is not light until it gets
here ;
but is merely a powerful waving movement of the fine
ether, or inner air, that connects the sun with the earth. These
ether-waves are most intense. They move on in blackness
through the sky and in ice-fields of cold so severe that words
cannot paint the fact. But as soon as they touch the envelope
of air that wraps this world in its folds, that air is given vibra-
tion, and this is called heat ; the same air with the ether in its
inner self becomes active in a different way, and light is pro-
duced ;
and the air, ether, light and heat coinciding, set up life.
It is the air that becomes charged with these three powers,
the trinity of earthly existence. The lessons taught are that
activity is always associated with life, and that both are born
out in the open air. Nothing ever came into being in the plant
world except by the conjunction of the three powers of this
trinity ;
and, as the human body is made up of plant existence,
and thrives best when treated as an outdoor plant, it depends
on the same laws.
In providing enough of any power for human good, nature
has been compelled to give bounteously. She is then of neces-
sity excessive in her gifts and seeks to tone them down by a
balance that swings to an opposite extreme. Playing between
enough and too much on the one hand, she gives too little on
the other hand. Excesses are facts and must be dealt with as
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 363
such. Says nature, " I will give all the heat that man can use,
but it is not possible to give an exact quota to each person, so I
will give more than enough." Then the sun is too hot in sum-
mer, in order to provide enough to balance the extreme cold of
winter. Nature swings from one extreme to the other, and the
wonderful fact is that she will never burn a careful person to
death with too much heat, nor freeze a careful person to death
with too little heat. The citizens of the Arctic lands, with the
thermometer fifty degrees below zero, survive the frigid winters.
By a little lack of care on the part of nature, all humanity
might be frozen to death in any winter, or burned to death in
any summer. That there is the adjustment as we find it speaks
volumes in proof of the presence of a power that watches our
every need.
The earth yields food in excess for some and in scarcity
for others. Between these extremes there is a middle ground
that would bring enough for all. As food is required to keep
the body alive, and as happiness and enjoyment would be
impossible without sustenance sufficient to maintain good
health, it is the first great problem to be settled.
But people forget that food is the product of the air ; or
light, heat and life, as interpreted by our atmosphere in its
response to the waves of ether, sent here from the sun. Travel-
ling in blackness and in cold unspeakably intense, they awaken
to life and warmth of life when they touch the air. Just at
the surface of the ground, where this warmth has penetrated a
few inches, and this light has called up the sleeping particles
of soil, life is enacted, and the world of food supply is created.
The human body is built of four elements in the main, and
to supply these is the work of solving the food problem. There
must be nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen and carbon. The first
three are found in air and water, as such ; and the carbon is
contained in fruits, vegetables and grains. There was a time
when perfect health and perfect happiness were found in these
sources of sustenance.
It has been ascertained in several hundred thousand lives in
experiments of years of duration, that the body retains its
health for scores of years when fed properly on fruits,
vegetables and grains, pure air and pure water. The only
air that contains life is out of doors. You can live in indoor
364 SEX MAGNETISM
air, but not on it. The only water that contains life is rain
water, free from taint of taste or colour, such as can be
collected in sand fields from rains, and drained through the
sand to receptacles, where it is then conducted to iced
vaults. In a few years the world will learn to get its pure
water in that way, as nature has been giving this hint for
centuries.
The trend of city influences is to draw country people away
from their semi-civilization on farms to the city to starve,
and send out intelligent people a generation hence to re-make
the farms into homes where perfect health can be secured from
pure air, pure water, fruits, vegetables and grains. The cost
of living is higher now than ever before, and will rise year by
year until the break comes. It will be a revolution.
There is no other end in view for humanity ; at least, not in
the next fifty years.
Some wise men and women are to-day anticipating this revo-
lution, and are seeking pure air, pure water, fruits, vegetables
and grains in small country estates, where it is possible to
raise more than is needed to eat, and to have an excess. The
barons of the future are those who to-day make preparations
for that day, when the prices of food will be so great and the
supply so small that starvation will run into a long famine,
the end of which cannot now be predicted ; but when the blow
falls it will descend without warning.
Then the rich will suffer.
There are mean men and women grinding out their lives
in narrow lines, struggling for a few more shillings day by day
to lay aside against a year of distress, and it is this awful struggle
that turns married life into nothing but facts. There is no
magnetism in the sexes then ; it's nothing but two horses
hitched to shafts and pulling for money.
In the early days of young manhood and young womanhood
such efforts to win a home are praiseworthy ; but when the
home is won and the span of life is far spent, it is reprehensible to
become the couple that is pointed out by neighbours as the
" meanest folks in town " ; to be pinched in the face and in soul,
warped in brain and heart, contemptible in all the qualities
that make life worth living, and to die mourned by no one,
and remembered only for a despicable nature.
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 365
It is estimated that there are more than one hundred
thousand couples who are over fifty years of age, and who
have saved away in banks or elsewhere a wealth in excess of
two thousand pounds, some several times this amount, and
who live the lives of grovelling serfs in spirit and in fact,
mean in everything they do, and small in everything they think ;
still scraping to add to a capital, the income of which they
will never be able to spend. They are buried alive in the
horrors of a dungeon, on all sides of which is stamped the
words, " Sordid souls dwell here."
Take the case of a couple, both of whom died recently,
leaving some investments that paid an annual income of
over two hundred pounds. Never in any year had they
spent as much as one hundred and fifty pounds, and rarely
half this amount. They had become so pinched in face with
the love of money that they had the look of rats ; and pictures
taken of them six years prior showed the rat-look in every
feature. Now, had they spent 90 per cent of their income,
and laid aside 10 per cent for the rats to follow them, they
could have had fresh air, comforts, pleasures in abundance
and some real life, all of which they, like the other thousands,
never knew, and never can know. It is said there are two
hundred thousand people or more who live in one or two
rooms, although they have more rooms to spare, and who
never spend more than half their income, even after they are
very old ;
grinding out their lives in the same fashion—mean,
close, and despicable. Somehow these people manage to live
together, but in storms and quarrels, ill-nature and criticisms,
suffering and pain, letting chronic maladies eat out their
vitality and peace of mind in order to save what they can never
spend. In practically all such cases they die with the still
increasing income. Said a husband :
" Had I known my wife
would have died so soon, I would have looked after her health.
She was a terrible sufferer for twenty years." He was seventy-
six, and she was seventy-four when the end came, after twenty
years of suffering. Yet they had not in that twenty years
spent half of their income in any one year, and when he soon
afterwards died the income was going on. In a letter to a
minister just before he died he wrote :
" My wife suffered for
more than twenty years. She was sorrowful and broken
366 SEX MAGNETISM
down in spirit, and the world was dark to her. She was shut
in. Had I known what I do now, I could have spared her
all her misery." But the income went on after he died.
Grasping, penurious people save money in abundance before
they die, and when man and wife get the same spirit, as many
do, they stick together for fear to separate, lest one shall be
the gainer over the other. But it is better not to live at all,
married or single, if the soul must be sacrificed for the love of
money. Lives of that kind are cursed. If there is discrimina-
tion after death in punishment and reward, the sordid soul
could not be allowed entrance to heaven, for she would criticize
the waste of precious stones and luxury of gold and silver
everywhere abundant. This female of whom we first spoke
had a dream one night that she had seen a glimpse of a world
of glory, and she awoke in a night sweat, talking to herself,
asking what things cost that she saw in her dream. Her one
desire was to turn them into cash and put the money in the
bank.
Living in two rooms, denying the body its food and care,
and taking all the beauty out of life, is the fate of almost
90 per cent of the married couples that learn to save their
money. Those who do not save are usually separated by
death, the woman surviving ; and she goes to some public
home for the aged, such as used to be called the workhouse.
If the husband survives, he finds a similar place in which to
end his days. Thus the extremes hover about the lives of the
aged. Too much accumulation on the one hand, and too
little on the other.
As has been said in the tenth chapter, magnetism is always
between extremes, never in either of them. It does not show
itself in that unlucky drift of life that falls prey to poverty,
for nature never allows a magnetic man or woman to long
remain poor. It does not show itself in grasping, penurious,
sordid souls. There never was a mean man or a mean woman
who was both mean and magnetic. One or the other must
give way. The individual who has no more adjustment of
mind and sense than to let an income accumulate needlessly
can never know the power or the blessings that magnetism
brings.
In the mind of the middle ground where magnetism dwells
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 367
is sense. Lack of mental acumen is the cause of poverty,
and magnetism has nothing to do with that defect. Over-
sharp mental acumen is greed, and nature hates greed as we
hate poison. Freed from both these extremes, under the
law of the tenth chapter, magnetism enters the mind and
lives in the realm of good sense. This power develops its
consort, and the two grow by each other's aid.
Magnetism is the maid, and sense is the man.
They make the union that lifts humanity out of its vaulted
dungeon.
Good sense compels the mind to turn to the sources of life,
and there find them in air and nature, in outdoor exercise
and companionship with the vital power of the universe as
it is expressed everywhere about us.
There is no magnetism in extremes. In the crowds of city
life, with the ill-health, the sickly air, the dirt and odours,
the dust that rises from the streets and floats into the houses
upon the food and through all the clothing, the artificial cost
of food and shelter, and the awful struggle to keep body and
soul together, we see one extreme ; and it is devoid of
magnetism. In the country home, located against a fifty-ton
bank of manure, with manure on everything indoors and out,
and brought by flies and insects to stain the food and the
body, with a semi-civilized routine of work that is the veriest
slavery and the warping of mind and of heart by the hardships
that torment men and women to desperation, and often to
suicide and insanity, we find the other extreme—the turning
of God's land into dirt and drudgery. In such existence
there is no magnetism.
Sense is the middle ground of the mind between lack of
mental acumen and its sharp greed ; and in this sense is to
be found the solution of the problem.
The more one's sense becomes free to assert itself the more
loudly it proclaims the law :
Facts bring no happiness of themselves ; in what we feel
must be found the secret of true living.
This law was recognized centuries ago, and has brought to
some men and some women their full measure of joy in life.
But they have been few indeed. People, seeing the falseness
in living solely for facts, have sought a remedy by some other
i
368 SEX MAGNETISM
extreme. Some have shut themselves up in religious houses,
there to be deprived of the blessings of earth and the fullness
of a well-spent life. That was an extreme that failed to
please the God it sought to serve. Life is activity, and it is
magnetic in the open, not in the closed vault. True life seeks
the air and the wide wealth of nature ; not the dungeon nor
the walled home, no matter how great the devotional habits
may be.
Nature never enters the house.
Others have gone to a different extreme, denying themselves
everything that gave pleasure. They sought to prove that
whatever we liked most did us the greatest harm. There was
a long array of facts to show that the things we drift to when
left to the choice of our desires were harmful either to mind,
body, or to soul. This feeling some people to-day entertain.
There are thousands of men and women who are generous
in all ways, and who are good folks, too, who nevertheless
believe and show some evidence to prove that we must not
indulge in anything we like. They assert that nature wants
us to reproduce the race ; then get off the scene of action as
soon as possible. They cite the fact that, in some grades of
the animal kingdom, the males die in the one duty of parentage,
and that humanity ought not to survive the raising of a
family.
It is to get rid of people, they assert, that the things we
like tend to bring on our deaths. Here are some of the facts
they have tabulated for consideration :
1. They say that foods are divided into three classes :
First, the kinds that are best for the health ;
second, the
kinds that are harmful to the health ; and third, the kinds
that are direct enemies of the health. It has taken more than
a hundred thousand years to find out this last fact.
2. The foods that are worst for the body are those that
child and man will first eat if no restraint is offered. Thus
the child, answering the call of its instinctive nature, will eat
sweets and pastry to the total exclusion of plain food. Ice
cream tastes better than milk, and sweet cakes taste better
than bread.
3. Admit any thousand of men and women to a banquet
hall where two lines of tables are set. Let these men and
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 369
women be in perfect health, as the saying goes. Have on one
side of the hall the foods that will better the body, add to its
nutrition and increase its vitality ; and on the other side the
usual rich courses of the banquets and dinners given by society.
Let these men and women have free choice without hint or
suggestion, and they will drift over to the rich foods, and
there eat until the blood has been charged with the poisons
of a sickly combination, wholly barbarous in its inception,
and reflecting the lowest state of civilized life in this country.
4. The things that make crime and disease are most pre-
ferred. The power of alcohol will never be broken. It kills
like a two-edged sword, slaying the victims and their victims.
Tea, coffee, stimulants, tobacco, opium, cocaine and drugs
of various kinds entice at first, then embrace the will and
bring voluntary slavery ; while water, the only drink that can
help the body, is set aside as too plain. There was a river
of champagne flowing through America every year that cost
fifty million pounds, and that made mind and body weaker
by its use. Yet that man or woman who would tell society
these facts was most brave.
5. Set a thousand healthy men loose in a strange city,
and ask them to make themselves as happy as they know
how, giving them freedom to choose for themselves, and all
but ten of them will make tracks for certain houses as a start-
off ; then they will hunt the saloons, but not in so great
numbers, and after that they will breathe smoke-laden air
from their cigars for a few hours. All this is pleasure.
6. It is claimed that one of the cleverest ruses of nature
to hurry men and women off the scene of action, and to make
room for each new generation, is witnessed in the death-
dealing combinations that result from wholesome foods when
not eaten in their plain forms. Sugar is wholesome, flour is
wholesome, eggs are wholesome, butter is wholesome, and so
are many other things when eaten in proper form. But
nature makes them taste better in certain combinations, as
when butter and sugar come together, a fearful ferment of a
poisonous character is let loose in the body, and the heart,
the lungs, the liver and the kidneys are hurt. So sugar and
eggs, as in cold sauce, icings, cakes and other uses, produce a
still more virulent irritation and poison. Yet everybody likes
24
370 SEX MAGNETISM
the taste of these combinations much better than to take
butter on bread, butter on eggs, and sugar in different ways.
Plain loaf sugar, or any plain form of sugar by itself is a food,
and gives strength to the mind, the blood, and the tissue.
7. Nearly all the good food produced by a bountiful nature
is ruined for nutritive purposes by the manner in which it is
cooked. Thus the frying of any food makes it a slow or quick
process towards death. You may not feel the results of
eating fried potatoes, fried pork and fried meats and foods,
but every mouthful you take reduces your life.
8. There are two million women who are leading professional
lives that are ending all chances of longevity, as such crime
cuts their span in halves. Go to them and look into their
faces, even at the age when they are least unattractive, and
you will see less than ten years of life left there. Forgotten
graves will be their fate very soon. Among both women
and men there is a steadily marching disease that blots out
lives every year by the thousands. Yet such conditions are
tempting, and yield great pleasure when people stand on the
threshold of bad influences. If there were no legal and moral
codes to deter some, all the race would be given up to
debauchery, as was the case just at the time when the old
religion fell to pieces, and Christ came upon the arena of
earth. Pleasure then had run riot, and virtue was mocked at.
9. The simple forms of life, free from nervous excitement
and attended by peace and gentleness, promote longevity,
and contain the greatest degree of health and safety to mind
and body ; but such methods are made the butt of ridicule
by the vast majority of people, especially those who are
money-spenders in extravagance. This disposition proves
that nature hurries men and women to their graves ; but
does she do this to get them out of the way, and thus make
room for those who are to follow ? If progress is the watch-
word of the ages, and if the improvement of the races
requires many generations, how can the world hold all the
people who would be here at one time if health were easy to
maintain ?
All Asia and Europe and Africa are crowded, and the
American continent is able to feed twice as many people as
now live on it ; but the care of the health would so prolong
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 371
the lives of the masses that there would soon be five times
the number of people that are now on earth, and it would be
impossible to support them.
This fact being true, it must follow that the majority of
humanity must step lively and get out of the way to make
room for the coming generations and the general advancement
of civilization.
In carrying out this arrangement nature kills off half a
million children in every million. Then she destroys a large
number of adults in their younger years. There are more
diseases than there are bookshelves to contain their records.
When the doctors begin to understand how to check one kind of
sickness, another kind comes into being. Then there is a pro-
found disinclination to heed the warnings of death, for it takes
something more that the fatalities that pile up every year in
any one line of sickness to awaken an interest in suppressing the
cause. Typhoid fever has millions of victims in the grave.
But these millions of deaths, all unnecessary, do not serve as a
warning to those who survive. In one town of two thousand
people ninety-four died in five years of typhoid, and still the
people there would not, after being told of the danger, fill up
the wells that caused the tragedies. As each new victim was
told that he or she must die, the words would come faintly :
" I should have taken warning from the deaths of others before
me, but it is now too late." Still the survivors would not
check the cause. This is human nature everywhere.
It is not often curable.
Causes are at work in many ways to cut off the lives of the
people so as to prevent the crowding of the world.
But does this law of nature make us believe that we should
lay down our lives on the altar of indifference ? If nine out
of ten persons are indifferent, and will so remain despite all
efforts to move them, does this fact convince us that we ought
to be indifferent also ?
Progress is the watchword of nature.
She does not want her followers to join the ranks of
those who are scoffers at her laws. The latter are not
permitted to care for their health, either of body or mind ;
and nature places a revolver in many a hand, shows the way
to poisons, lays open the floodgates of disease and disaster, and
372 SEX MAGNETISM
says :
" Here, you people who are of no use to me get out of
this world. You think only of yourselves. You are given the
sacred temple of the body with which to clothe a soul that
might have been immortal, but you have been selfish, arrogant,
grumblers, grovellers, useless in mind and heart, and have
looked to me for all your needs and comforts. I have held open
the grandest opportunities that have ever been offered any
people, and you have shut your eyes and sought sordid pleasures
that reduce you to the rank of beasts and vegetation, as far as
being of value to my plan of progress. But the age is now at its
climax. There are men and women alive to-day who may live,
if they desire, to see the present earth revealed to them in a new
glory that shall be consummated by the power of civilization
working under my commands. I have a life that is multiform,
and I can walk with any or all of my followers, helping them in
their struggles from day to day. I have power to do all they
wish. I work through special design. Any person who is
willing to help make the world better physically and morally
will receive my aid day and night through a long life. I want
them to live in happiness and in the enjoyment of their faculties
as long as they wish to be on earth. But all others must go.
They are in my way. I teach them how to neglect their health,
how to ruin mind and body through temptations they cannot
resist ; how to make the world hate them and want them in
the grave, and I throw through them all the diseases that mow
down life in wide swaths every year. Choose ye."
It is a question of choice.
The people who fail in their earthly existence and die
abjectly useless to the world, believe they have been prevented
by ill-luck or fate from making successes of themselves. But
life is complex, and the reasons are to be sought in one fountain
of power, and that is the human will. What you are able to
make up your mind to do you will accomplish, and what your
will lacks you will fail in. It all comes down to the power to
cultivate a will that shall be invincible, and that is the work of
the climacteric course of this Club, known as Universal
Magnetism.
Nature needs more recruits.
All she is waiting for before bringing glory to earth is the
increase of her followers to such numbers that they can sway
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 373
her laws into new conditions. Then death will be far away,
and youth and vital life will walk with all her devotees.
Progress such as she desires can be made only in the true
home, and under the sway of marriage that is holy, sweet,
pure and noble.
Such homes must be built where life can be had in the open
air, except when shelter is required. Thousands of such homes
have been established in the past few years, and they will
grow in numbers all over the land. In the pure air of out-door
exercise there is found the trinity of light, warmth and life ;
the direct gifts of the sun. God put the sun in this part of the
sky, and commanded it to send to earth this trinity. He also
gave it the powers of magnetism, which carry in their bosom
all the joys and bliss of heaven, and these come to earth to
enter the lives of those who choose to seek them.
The purpose of producing many generations is to bring up
a people that shall elect to accept these sublime opportunities.
When one generation arises to receive them, then the
ultimate end of race production is in sight. It is only in the
ranks of the classes that are mere links in the chain of progress
that children crowd into the world. As each grade of humanity
rises higher in the scale, the rate of child-bearing decreases by
instinct. There is no point in bringing children into the world
for them to die in childhood to the extent of fifty per cent, as
is now the case ; or to become victims of crime and disease, and
thus hurry out of the world. Nature has a purpose in every-
thing, and her only object in cutting off ninety in every
hundred before they are old is to get rid of the crowds that are
of no use to her, as they take no interest in the bettering of the
human race.
She demands people of progress.
But magnetism is now being understood simultaneously
with the uses of electricity ; and there will be given to the
better minds and the better personalities of the race a power of
the human will capable of deciding what course to pursue ;
the result being that recruits will flock to the standard of
nature and become members of the army of progress. They will
rise in their might and will fight for pure home life, for pure
marriage ties and for a new earth. Nature will sustain them
and aid them day and night through the law of special design.
374 SEX MAGNETISM
These people will carry the banner of a new civilization.
They will be deliberate in marrying, delaying the union as
long as possible, except where it is now consummated. They
will fall in line with the instinctive law that children coming
of late marriages will naturally be fewer in number ;
and,
coming of pure home life and nobler unions, will naturally be
superior in character. Thus quality will supplant quantity,
and the world will not be crowded.
Nothing can be more wantonly absurd and cruel than the
doctrine that a family should bear children in great numbers
rather than in few numbers and of better quality.
It is by far the best to delay bringing children into the
world until the parents are advanced in years far enough to be
able to properly care for their offspring and give them the
attention mentally and physically that the best children are
entitled to. One of the parents should be in the thirties at
least and, if older, it will be better. Two children are all that
nature requires, and one will suffice if there is better opportunity
for its complete care. In one town we counted eighteen
families having seven or more children in each, and not one
of this crowd of children would ever be of use to themselves
or to the world. They would join the masses that come and
go and are taught indifference to the laws of health so as to
become easy victims to disease.
These are the facts of life.
They are the ugly facts that stand in the way of human
progress.
They are the repellent facts that make nature discard them
and leave them to get through the world as best they can,
unaided by any of the impulses of happiness or enjoyment.
In this era the most obtrusive fact is the love of money, that
agency that has always been thought the root of all evil. The
fact of greed, leading to dishonesty and fraud, stands forth
like a mighty shadow over the world. Greed makes the
merchant wicked, the food manufacturer a murderer of thou-
sands, the banker crafty, the speculator bloodless in his thefts,
the monopolist savage in his selfishness, and the schemer
heartless in his quest of marriage. There are at this moment
more than a million women biding their time when they can
enmesh men of wealth in promises of wedlock, and millions of
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 375
men seeking the consent of women of wealth to marriages that
have no other basis than desire for money.
The parsimony that has been described in the early pages of
this chapter in the old folks who narrow their lives, cut off
all happiness and entomb themselves in unhealthy rooms in
order that they may live on less than half their incomes, is in
the blood of this generation.
It is this greed that is making unfit marriages. It is this
greed that is laying traps for rich women by unprincipled
men, and for rich men by soulless women, all for the gain of
money. Meanness is the enemy of home life and pure matri-
mony. Some men fail to win the consent to marriage until
they assert their wealth, and then the answer comes in the
affirmative. Girls who are in doubt between two or more offers
find it easy to select the man who says he is wealthy. In
many cases the claim is false and the union stands on weak
ground. Shortsighted men and women, falling into traps, do
not hold their bonds tightly, and in the present state of feeling,
there is no sentiment that keeps most married people together.
There must be the bond that is strong in other ways.
There must be worth in the man, and worth in the woman.
There must be magnetism in the place of greed. If you have
greed in your heart, and would marry to gratify it, stop and
think that you will not be the gainer. A better union can be
founded on personal worth instead of money value. Kill all
greed in your heart. Strangle it from your life. Rise above
it, for it is mean and despicable. It will warp your soul and
chill your better life. The claim that penurious men and
women who are married to each other live together all their
lives is true, because each is trying to beat the other. Separa-
tion means loss of the share of the savings, and of all the
accumulations in case of the earlier death of the other party.
It is a cat and dog fife, filled full of misery and horrible
meanness.
Kill greed.
Let each married man be a noble, manly and attractive
husband.
Let each wife be beautiful, sweet and lovable.
Then think how can a man be noble if he is greedy for mere
money. How can he be attractive and be shut off from the
376 SEX MAGNETISM
companionship of nature, which alone makes life worth
living ?
How can a stingy, penurious, money-hunting woman be
beautiful ?
She is hideous, and has the eyes and face of a rat.
How can she be sweet and lovable, when she is imprisoned
in the shut-up rooms of her miserly home, thinking only of her
savings and the interest they earn each night while she dreams
of shillings and pence ?
Beauty can never outlive manners.
In the fresh air of outdoors will be found light, warmth
and life, and it is only out of doors that the magnetism sent
from heaven through the portals of the sun can reach the
human heart.
Throw greed away.
Open the narrow home to the blessed sun, and make it a
jewel set in the crown of lawns, gardens and beautiful flowers.
God does not talk to mankind to-day in words, but in influences.
Every plant could have been created to bear itself and to
reproduce itself with no other aid than its own seed-pods
and roots. But those apparently unnecessary things called
flowers, rich in their varied colours of petals and wonderful
fragrance of perfume, are the smiles of the great God talking
in kindness to the people who will look and listen.
Throw greed away.
Open the home to outdoor influences and join hands with
nature. There alone comes the magnetism that holds the hearts
closer and more firmly together than any other power. If
you are not yet married, wait until you can have a home set
in lawns and gardens, to be made by you and your consort, and
then live all you can in the open. There alone is true life.
If you are not yet married, you have the whip-hand of your
fate. Take time to look the situation in the face. Do not be
in a hurry. There is plenty of time. Ascertain your own
temperament, and that of the party who would join hands with
you. Then you two go over this book together from beginning
to end, and if the other party does not like what it says, there
should be the turning-point in your lives.
Time will bring about your wishes, no matter what they are,
if you make yourself worthy.
SHADOWS IN BONDAGE 377
The home such as we have described is a magnet.
Other forms of life are not.
Make up your mind that all humanity is divided into two
classes, of which one is great and numerous in bulk only ;
and
the other is small, but growing. The bulky class is composed
of the people whom nature asks to step along, to be indifferent
to their health, and careless of all the graces and sweetness
of life, to fall sick and die and make room for others. The
second class is composed of people who are sincerely desirous
of being worthy of a better world on earth, and who want to
do what they can to make it better. That second class is
composed of
1. Men who want to be manly, noble and virile.
2. Women who want to be beautiful in heart, sweet in
mind, and lovable in their nature.
Decide that you will join the class that, while it is smaU
in numbers, is yet the potent factor in a greater civilization.
Belong to that class. Then find for yourself a consort in the
same class.
MAGNETIC CONSORTS
FACTS and feelings make up human life. In the twelfth
chapter facts were discussed, and some of them were most
ugly and uninviting. In the present chapter the feelings will
hold attention. As has been repeatedly stated, the work of the
Magnetism Club is interwoven, each part with each other.
Sex Magnetism is helped at every stage of the way in the other
courses. It is wholly a study and development of the feelings,
and these are unfolded and given great magnetic power in the
work entitled Advanced Magnetism. In that course the feelings
rule. Then the power of self-impression, and also the power
of mental vision, are taught in Universal Magnetism, the
climacteric course of the Club. Owing to the intricacies of the
gifts bestowed by nature on humanity, it is not possible to
place these auxiliary helps in any one work, or to repeat
them in all, as they would break abruptly in upon the
instruction without being amply understood out of their
proper associations.
Having in the twelfth chapter gone through the unpleasant
duty of dealing with the salient facts that surround marriage,
we now come to the better realm of the feelings. As has been
said, life is made up of facts and feelings. Facts are the things
that exist, and the deeds that are done. Feelings are the
reasons why deeds are done. A fact alone is fearfully tiresome.
It is a drag to life. When it is clothed with feeling it has less
or more value. Thus the duties of the day are facts, and cannot
be interesting unless they inspire the feelings. Suppose those
feelings are of hatred for the work, a belief that the labour is
useless, or that it is unnecessary, or that it is imposed upon you,
then you will do your work in bitterness and reproach.
On the other hand, suppose the work seems to be a step
towards something else that will bring comfort to you or others,
or that it is work necessary to the happiness of yourself or
others, or that it will give you opportunity to keep the body
378
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 379
active and, therefore, healthy, the feeling will enable you to
do it better and with content.
Still further, suppose you have no ill-nature towards those
duties, and that, while you are performing them you are
thinking of other scenes, of other faces, of coming events, of
pleasures yet to be, and that all this time you are happy and
contented, your work will be supplanted by feelings that will
cause the fact to disappear. A man was willing to bring up a
scuttle of coal for his wife, or for anyone else, when he was sure
it would give him healthful exercise. All persons need more
muscular activity in variety. Some get too much of one kind.
The hard toil of the day may employ a limited number of
muscles which are relieved by taxing other muscles. No
physical work should be regarded as drudgery as long as some
part of the power is conserved, and it is all done gracefully.
Thus the feelings may be brought to the aid of all kinds of
toil, and may either uplift them or supplant them.
The woman who sings while she works has something more
than the fact of labour in her mind and heart. The same is
true of the man who whistles while doing something useful.
The woman who thinks and feels that her toil will bring her
certain reward some day, or in the immediate future, will not
mind the work so much as one who sees and feels nothing ahead
but the thing she is doing. If, after she has been paid for the
work, she will have nothing left of the remuneration except the
exchange of the money she earns for the bare necessities of
life, and will take but little interest in what she does. But often
a surplus, with which she can buy a better dress or take a day's
holiday, will inspire her to toil on. The love of children,
and the hope that some day they will grow and be able to care
for her, urges her on to hard labour.
Feeling of some kind is necessary, or life will be a blank to
most toilers. It is on this ground that any relaxation or any
indulgence at the coming night, or half-holiday, or Sunday, or
in the days ahead, will make the burdens easier to bear. It
is on this principle that men carouse at night in drink or other
temptations, and women follow their footsteps. They think
ahead during the day, and feel the coming relief from drudgery.
The substitution of a better ambition than to drink and
carouse is sure to lessen the dangers of such evil temptations.
380 SEX MAGNETISM
The experiment has been tried, and has worked wherever
properly made. New ambitions of a wholesome sort will ease
the work, and give the feelings due play in the mind and heart.
But it is agreed that the facts of hard toil must be veneered with
the hopes inspired by feelings of some kind, either good or bad.
Thousands upon thousands of instances could be cited of
the operation of this law in human life, but it is so common in
all experiences that space need not be taken here for example.
But the chief interest for the student of this course of
training is in the bond of feelings that will serve to make the
two sexes attractive to each other, and add to the tightening of
the ties that hold them to their home life.
Some great goal in life which is alluring to both husband
and wife must be set up and never lost sight of. Then there
must be the daily hope and prospect that will come into the
close range of their vision. These are the far-off hope and the
nearby anticipation. There is nothing in the human heart so
great as the feeling of anticipation. It has more possibilities
of magnetism than all other pleasures and all other experiences
combined. It is the most powerful magnet ever set in the
mind or heart. The skilful use of the agency of anticipation
in the hands of a person who can control the belief or the
confidence or the loyalty of another, is capable of accomplishing
all the work of a better civilization. All progress rests on this
feeling. All happiness rests on it. Heaven itself is not alluring
except for this feeling. The rejection of religion will always
be easy as long as there is not the double force of hope and
anticipation bringing men and women into its power.
To the people who are about to die religion holds out the
hope of a better world beyond ; and this is eagerly accepted,
because then all hope in this world is gone. But younger
persons do not care to take up the life of religion, which cuts
off so much opportunity here for happiness on the far-away
prospect of a better era after this life is ended. Before religion
can have a natural bearing on the hearts of men and women
it must give them something in this life in return for the
self-denials that are required. No religion is natural, or
founded on the laws of heaven, that makes earth nothing and
heaven everything. " Peace on earth, good will to men " is for
this world, not the next. Each has its place in the true heart,
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 0»1
and each must witness its joys. Every pleasure in this life
that is substantial and not vicious is in harmony with the
promises of immortal existence.
So plainly are the laws of nature stamped on every epoch
that he who runs may read. She has but one goal, and that
is perfect humanity. For this she has striven through count-
less centuries, and she is still working out the fate of the race.
The goal of eternity is immortality, and that is taught by true
religion. The goal of earthly existence is a better life here, and
this is possible only through better homes and better marriages.
The marriage gives the right to produce the next generation ;
the home gives the place of nurture and care, and the better
living is the fruit of the best marriages, combined with the
best home conditions.
Here is the real stepping-stone to heaven.
These are the true goals of the noblest people of this age.
But there must be the daily anticipation. The husband is
away from his home for some hours each day ;
and what is
there in the home that lures him back 1 Is it the wife ? If so,
why should she attract him ? There must be something worth
while, for no man can long come back to an unattractive woman.
Then she alone is never enough. Life is complex, and the
personality is not enough to fill it. The meals are not enough
to make a magnet. The old saying that the road to a man's
heart is through his stomach is true only when the stomach
is not the cause of heart failure. More wholesome cooking and
an interest in food selection will help make some attraction ;
but
life is complex.
The attractive wife and the health-giving meal will make up
two parts of this intricate existence.
But there must be more.
Attractiveness includes the many better conditions of the
mind and the heart that have been described in the several
chapters of this work ;
they are powerful magnets ;
but all
the neatness and all the refinement in the world will not
make home and wife the greatest magnet. Something more is
needed. There should be in every woman that drawing
influence that will make a man dislike to leave her presence in
the morning ; and that will make his thoughts turn to her all
day long in those little intervals that creep into the busiest brain.
382 SEX MAGNETISM
In his office, in his employment, in his duties of earning and
winning the means of taking care of her, there should be the
face and the form of that wife always near at hand, seemingly
to look in his eyes and there read his desire for her, and to
look into his heart and hear the beating throbs of love for her
and her alone. This yearning for her presence should never
fade from his life ; whether she is eighteen or eighty.
To put into practical test the wish to see and be with her,
he should plan a campaign of anticipations. Surprises are not
one per cent as anticipations ; and the way to make them effec-
tive is to make them habitual, so they may be expected. " My
husband is always surprising me, and I never know what to
expect next." This waiting to be surprised furnishes the mag-
netism of anticipation, and takes its place. There is something
pleasant to look forward to.
Then there should be something worth while planned for the
evening at the end of each day. When the week ends come
something else should be in waiting. Every Sunday should be
sought with eagerness, not because of secular enjoyment, but
for the companionship of husband and wife all day long amid
variations of pleasure such as may be in harmony with the day.
There may be flowers, visits to or from relatives, walks, and
other means of making the day attractive. A little study, some
ingenuity, and a real desire to be the source of new thoughts
and new ways of bringing a charm into life is necessary.
It is all wrapped up in the one law of anticipation.
Your wife should have something each day to look forward
to ;
something each week greater than that of each day ; and
something each year ; in addition to which there should be a
life purpose. All these things have been discussed in earlier
chapters.
If you are a wife, remember that your husband should be
eager to return to you at the end of every day of absence ; and
the magnet is not yourself exclusively, but some form of attrac-
tion that you engage in for him and with him. It is not a mag-
net to meet him with a kiss ; for he needs more than that. Nor
is it a magnet to have his slippers ready for him to slip into.
Nor to have the arm-chair placed where he can recline in
it most conveniently. He is better able than you to attend
to those matters, and you should let him get his own slippers,
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 383
if he wears those articles about the house ; and to grope for
the arm-chair himself.
What he really wants is not something to eat, although he
may be very hungry, and would appreciate a wholesome meal
that would not leave him in distress. Eating is one of those
commonplace facts that must enter into all lives, and every
good wife should not depend on the meals as the chief power
to keep her husband in love with her.
He wants you, but not you exclusively.
With you he wants a bright mind and a refined body. In
you he wants to find a sweet, lovable and beautiful woman.
He wants a sensible and a smart woman. But these things are
you. More than that, he wants some method of making the
evenings pleasant and profitable to mind and heart. No man
can be expected to court and make love after he is married.
He may be willing to hold your hand during a portion of each
evening when you are engaged ; but after marriage he needs
larger game. He knows, or should know, that life is real and
life is earnest, and there are interests that are paramount to
the little things of the day. Find something worth living for,
and let him know that you have found it. This cannot be
done in a week ; it takes time ; but keep your mind on the wish
to make your life and his something above the drift of exist-
ence.
The facts of marriage are tiresome after the newness has
worn off. They do not hold a charm for man or woman, and
then there will come the spirit of unrest and yearning for a
different condition. This yearning is natural to both parties and
must be satisfied. The man or woman who can discover the
means of satisfying it develops genius, and this is magnetism.
It may be said that Charmland is an unreal land.
Some persons may regard it as only a veil thrown over the
mind and heart to make things seem fairer than they are.
If this much is accomplished, it is enough. If love is blind,
it should remain blind. What that young man can see in that
young woman is a mystery to his friends and to hers ; but to
him it is as real as anything in the world. Time may show
him his mistake, and then he will know that his love was blind ;
but until he learns the error he will be happy in his short-
sightedness.
384 SEX MAGNETISM
The real mistake was in waking up.
There are many men who go through married life love-blind.
They have an exalted regard for their wives that may not be
reciprocated, but that gives happiness. They devote themselves
to making every day as pleasant as possible for their consorts.
But the disadvantage of this regard is that it is generally one-
sided. There are some wives who are love-blind towards their
husbands, and this feeling is often of years' duration ;
yet
generally it is not mutual. Yet there are many cases of men
and women great enough to carry till death the same exalted
feeling for each other ;
notably in lives such as those of Glad-
stone and his wife, Browning and his wife, and others where
genius is of the greatest type. The lower the standard the
less likely are people to become love-blind.
What name can be given to that condition of mind and
heart that is in control of lovers during the happiest period
of their courtship, when both are in doubt, and yet both are
supremely hopeful each of the other ? It is as near to Charm-
land as they can then get ; and yet it is a living in their feelings,
not in facts. They come to the facts all too soon, and then
the bliss disappears.
From evidence in great abundance it is apparent that the
state of feeling of the lover makes him see in his mind, and
experience in his heart, a being almost divine. During the
weeks that elapse while the agitated ocean of happiness is
settling, he sees a person that is different from all others, in
that she is far more entrancing to look upon and to listen to than
any woman he has ever known. Many a time a man has been
in love with a face that has been denied to him by fate ; and
he has tried to surfeit his gaze upon her portrait ;
yet, after
he had married another, he has found that the former's face
was actually ugly. " How could I ever have fallen in love
with that ?
" is his inquiry. One of the closest friends we have
ever had fell in love with a woman who rejected him after an
acquaintance of two years, during which time she said she was
trying to make up her mind. She married another man, and
he married another woman. Several years afterwards he dis-
covered that the face he had adored was misshapen and ill-
favoured in feature, eyes, nose, lips and look. " Is she just the
same now in looks as she was then ? " he asked. On being
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 385
assured that she had not depreciated, he was surprised to think
that he saw anything beautiful in that countenance.
We live in our feelings, not in our senses.
Those who live in facts do not want to live. They have no
hope in life and there seems nothing ahead for them. They
fall prey most easily to disease, or make way for it themselves ;
for health, vigour and a strong hold on existence must have a
cord of hope binding them to earth. Let this cord slip away
and life fails.
When the feelings are strong enough they summon up beings
at will that are better or worse than the facts warrant. A
man who has been hurt in some way by another man, or who
has been cheated or wronged by him, will entertain feelings
towards him that will make the enemy a monster. He will
magnify every fault and see nothing good in him. So it is with
a man whose wife has done him wrong. If he cannot forgive
her, he will entertain for her feelings that will picture her in
a character far beneath her actual merits. To her relatives
who love her she will be a good woman and sweet in her ways ;
while to him she will be ugly or venomous.
There are many instances where women have been looked
upon as termagants by their husbands who have aroused in
them a feeling of dislike and been scratched by feminine claws ;
yet these same women, after being divorced, have been wed to
men who looked upon them as most beautiful, sweet and lovable.
There are many women to-day who are hated by their husbands
and who have lovers desirous of marrying them because they
believe them to be attractive and fascinating. One man at a
club said, " I have a wife who is the most disagreeable woman
in the world in my opinion." A fellow-member to whom he
made this statement said in reply, " I have danced and talked
with her many times and I think she is really divine. I wish she
were my wife." " By Jove, I wish she was." Events brought
about a legal separation and the second man married that
woman, and he resigned from the club to please her. He
devoted himself to her, made her happy, and they are to-day
the most congenial of couples. The former husband simply had
incurred her ill-feeling and his own regard had changed to an
opposite view, making her in his eyes an ill-natured female.
As a matter of fact, she is a very pretty woman. " We have
25
386 SEX MAGNETISM
dined at their house many times and have always found her
bright, vivacious, home-loving, sympathetic and refined in the
highest degree," said some friends recently. Her husband said
to them, " She is that way always with me. I would do any-
thing to please her. I hate to go from home in the morning, and
long to get back again so that I may be where she is." The
peculiar fact is that the former husband has married another
woman, with whom he lives happily.
It is all in the feelings.
Strong inclinations build strong feelings, and the result is
a new condition to everything that comes within range of this
influence.
One of the results of continuing the study of magnetism to
its highest course is the building up of the power of self-impres-
sion ; that is, gift of voluntarily creating the same feelings
that come from outward causes. When a man is love-blind and
cannot see the glaring faults of the woman whom he adores, his
feelings have been given mastery without his own act. They
have come about as the natural result of falling in love. The
practice of self-impression permits him to voluntarily acquire
the same condition without having an irresistible cause.
There are two of these ultra-high powers of magnetism :
1. Self-impression.
2. Outward feeling.
Self-impression is wholly an inward influence that acts on
the feelings between self as a cause and self as an affect.
Outward feelings are assumed relations with other persons.
The stronger one's magnetism grows as the study proceeds
from one course to another the more vivid become the self-
impressions, and the easier it is to build outward feelings.
The result is that the magnetic person lives in a world of
his own creation, and can invite and compel others to come with
him into that same world whenever and as long as he wishes.
The action is double.
Over thirty years ago the effect of creating self-impressions
and outward feelings was discussed, with a view of giving to
humanity, through the higher realms of magnetism, the same
exalted experiences that nature affords those whom she wishes
to lure into wedlock. If she is able to make one person blind
to the real face and character of another through what is called
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 387
love, the same result can be obtained through magnetism, with
the double advantage of raising the character of both parties
to new levels all the while.
It is because of the substitution of new feelings of exhilara-
tion that men become addicted to alcoholic drinks. To secure
release from the terrible facts of living, men have for centuries
had recourse to the aid of drugs, such as opium, and others
that build, for a limited period, new sensations of joy and bliss.
It is the one desire to get away from the realities of life that
prompts these bad habits ; for if existence could furnish a
state of mind one-half as agreeable, men would never look to
false stimulants for such aid.
There are but two natural influences that bring men and
women to these higher feelings of enjoyment ; one is temporary,
and is known as the power of love ; the other is a succession
of more or less permanent influences known as anticipation.
While nature compels men and women to reproduce the race,
that is not her whole aim ; for she tries to bring on a state of
earthly happiness in conjunction with love. She is not to be
thwarted. If all humanity were to resolve to remain single,
and never bring another child into the world, nature would
rise above that agreement and throw reason aside for the
feelings. Love is so powerful at certain times in life that
there can be no deliberate action of the mind against it. The
love of man for woman, or woman for man, and of the mother
for the child, can never be argued out of existence or legislated
down. They are born in feelings altogether too strong to even
be lived down until they are satisfied in part, if not in whole.
When minds become able to fight down the feelings of nature's
creation, something snaps and the asylum doors open.
Such is the intense energy of nature.
It is not pretended that magnetism is stronger than nature
and can defeat her. The most that can be said is that mag-
netism makes use of the better impulses of nature, and employs
them in a natural way. Such better impulses are self-impres-
sions and outward feelings.
They have been experimented with most successfully for
more than thirty years, and have been found perfect substitutes
for the exhilaration that comes from drugs and the heated
imagination that attends love-making. And, in proportion
388 SEX MAGNETISM
as magnetism is increased by years of development along
higher lines, in the same proportion will these superior feelings
become more intense, realistic and natural.
The principle is this :
Men and women are seeking at all times to get away from
the facts of life. They resort to anything to do this. It is
better to avoid the injurious agencies of taking the dullness
out of the harsh facts, and to adopt those that are wholly
natural and beneficial. For this reason the stimulation of
magnetism in its higher degree is better than drugs, such as
opium and cocaine, or alcoholic habits. Magnetism is always
strengthening the will-power and adding to the god-like quali-
ties of men and women, while drugs are always making beasts
of them.
Nature uses the love charms that she throws over the minds
of young men and women to bring about a hasty union.
Gertrude Atherton, in discussing this fact, said :
" Very young
men are not conscious of the demands that will be made on
them by marriage, and very young women do not meet them.
For they are urged to marry by the call of the race, the insistent
demand of Nature to continue herself. But if a man survive
this period of youth without marrying, he will seek an intelli-
gent companion as a wife, not merely the first pretty girl he
happens to meet. If a woman wants to make anything of her
life, she must resist this call during extreme youth. She must,
before marrying, have definite interest and occupation in life.
I have a niece whom I am educating with this idea. A great
deal of the unhappiness of marriages is due to the wife's lack
of interests and occupations. She is either a pretty drudge
or a society idler. Every woman has an embryonic talent
for something, but most of them do not try to find out what it
is. Something should be done to arouse that interest and
set them to hunting within themselves for the better work of
life. Occupations that make the home more attractive to all
who enter it are first in importance, but this does not require
that a woman be a toiler and nothing more. There are many
ways of doing the same kind of hard work, and some women
have the faculty of making drudgery seem delightful. But
the homes of to-day are not the homes of the past. Formerly
a woman had an entire house and a little garden to care for,
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 389
and there were many more children to a family than there
are to-day. But now the average woman lives in a flat. She
has a servant to relieve her of the housework.
" Her days are dedicated to idleness, then to strange cults
and isms, or to morphine or cocaine. Why is it that so many
wives have nervous prostration ? Simply lack of interest in
life, lack of occupation.
" How many wives do you know who are really happy ?
They say they are happy, of course, but if you get to know
them well enough for them to tell you the truth, you hear
a different story. Haven't you often heard the most devoted
wife say when her husband went away :
'
Thank heaven, he's
gone ! Now I can have a few days to myself !
'
And this for
no graver reason than because she would be free for a while
from growling about the meals, or, perhaps, from suffering from
his lack of the little refinements for which men care so little
and women so much."
Here we find that the strange cults and isms are adding
their power to the influences of morphine, cocaine and alcohol
as stimulants to relieve men and women of the burdens of
facts. The cults that invite them are sure to have a following
in proportion as the mind begins to sag under the weight of
facts unrelieved by the better trend of the feelings. Take the
belief in reincarnation—it could not secure attention in a
mind that had healthy employment. It will appeal to the
woman who loafs much and finds the day a drag, who wants
to be kept nervously tensed all the time, or she will almost
fly out of herself.
The mind when it follows the healthy course of earthly
existence is satisfied with very little law of any kind beyond
the teachings of nature, which embody the best sense founded
on the best judgment, and the attainment of the worthiest
ends in living. The best brain of man seeks the highest
civilization with the least wear and tear on the physical and
moral nature. The shortest distance between any two points
is in a straight fine ; and the only straight line in life is perfect
honesty. It must be honesty to the body, to the mind, to the
moral nature, to the soul and to the Creator. Cults and isms,
and the stimulation of drugs and drinks, are dishonest sub-
stitutes, because they deviate from the straight line set by
390 SEX MAGNETISM
nature for securing the ends aimed at. Everywhere nature has
offered happiness in the world, and what of misery exists is
the fruit of man's substitution of false stimulation for the true.
The drowning of tedious living in strong drink is as old as man
himself. Thousands of years ago the Bible said that wine is
mocker and strong drink is raging. But men by millions still
adhere to this slavery. In one county seat it has taken hold
of the lives of every man and young man, and almost every
lad ;
because there is a sentiment there in favour of personal
liberty, which means the right to let baser cravings rule the mind
and soul. In the past ten years the theatres have been teach-
ing profanity and obscenity without restriction, until to-day
there is hardly any objection to exposing almost entire female
bodies, from the toes to the bosoms ; nor does the clientele
of the theatre any longer object to hearing men and women
curse and swear in plays, because the plays are true to life,
and carry the profanity and vulgarity from the drawing-room
to the stage. Thus the theatre in many instances has educated
the masses to believe that obscenity and profanity are nature's
mirror, instead of being the bestial depravity of evil minds.
In the outer edge of the new literature following the dark ages,
nothing was humorous or worth laughing at and enjoyed
unless it was obscene ; and the faces of men and women were
like swine, just as the faces of penurious and greedy men and
women are like rats.
We all seek something.
Life that has nothing at all in it that allures is sure to
break down the mind and end quickly in suicide. The false
glare of modern civilization is bringing the minds of men and
women to see double ; in one direction they see the senseless,
useless slavery to habits of stimulated pleasure ; and in the
other direction they see the emptiness of their own nature
to build the right kind of existence for themselves and for
others. In the seething mass of humanity that is thus moved
there are millions who declare that the world owes them a
living, and they will ask for it without earning it. They are
tramps when poor, and are the idle rich when affluent. They
add nothing day by day to the world's storehouse of treasure,
mentally or physically. They take and do not pay. They are
nothing more than clay, and are the same to nature whether
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 391
dead or alive ; if dead their bodies have direct fertilizing power,
and if alive they furnish some of the fertilizing change needed
to make this old planet productive. But outside of this com-
post profession, they are nothing to the world or to nature ;
they are merely tramps when poor and idlers when affluent.
The comedy of the lives of the compost profession is that
the rich idlers, stung at last by conscience as they realize that
they cannot wrest from the world a living after they are dead,
the idle rich give of their abundance to the idle poor ;
thus
joining hands in life and dwelling in the lap of earth for the
purpose of fertilization when dead.
The lure of idle pleasure that fills the home and social
existence of the rich does not take away from them their
natural rank and their coat-of-arms as high-degree members
of the compost profession. Those idle rich give dances, give
dinners, give hunting parties, give golf parties, give coaching
parties, have week-end parties, give receptions, and thus pass
from one excitement to another, catering to the stomach
through the eagerness of the mouth to be the most active
faculty of their lives, and in it all, from sunrise to sunrise,
from Monday to Monday, from year to year, they do not do
one useful thing and have not one useful moment ;
they make
not one genuine stroke of work, nor think one honest stroke
of thought, merely shining to outshine their neighbours, and
dining to outdine their neighbours, hoping to be called sump-
tuous hosts and lordly spendthrifts. They have one good
physical habit—they stuff their already overloaded stomachs,
and thus increase their usefulness as fertilizers ;
and they, in
after days of remorse, give of their bounty to the idlers of
the slums, and thus help them add their fertilization to
nature. Beyond these assets they have not one iota of useful-
ness in the world.
It is the blundering charity of the rich that is making the
great army of tramps and slum-dwellers.
When a man who has to work for his money gives to charity
he is careful and studious in the manner of its disposal.
As nature wishes useless people to hurry out of the world
to make way for those who are willing to help raise the standard
of civilization, she is imposed upon by the charity of the rich.
She demands that every man and woman regard the temple
392 SEX MAGNETISM
of the body as sacred to the cause of health and longevity ;
that every faculty of mind and heart be kept in normal power ;
and that these powers be used constantly and never allowed,
like useless talents, to remain hidden or obscured. If the
denunciation of Christ means anything, it means that it is a
sin and a crime against nature and God to hide talents. Talents
are faculties, powers and uses of which the mind and body are
capable ; and to allow them to remain idle is the first chief
sin of humanity. They should be used, and used usefully.
Golf and other games have their place in a part of each life ;
but to make them the only physical activity of the body is
but changing the form of idleness.
The most powerful of all magnets in life, and especially in
matrimony, is useful activity of mind and body. There must
be no idleness. There must be no waste of energy in health
defeating functions like dinners that stuff the body and serve
only to increase the fertilization of nature. Here is a wealthy
woman who says, " I have been so busy that I have not had
time for any other work than to give receptions and dinners.
Why, do you know that I have given eleven dinners this past
season, and I tell you it is all I can stand to keep up after so
much hard work." Hard work ! Is stuffing the overloaded
stomachs of her select set hard work ? Not one of them but
would have been better off to have gone home before each dinner
and have given the stomachs a needed rest, instead of adding
to the activities of the drug business, the medical profession
and the fertilization of the earth ! Yet so many women are
posing as martyrs to gigantic tasks who do these very things
and then add some blundering contributions to charity in
order that their fellow-members of the compost fraternity,
the tramps and slums, may do their share likewise.
There is only the difference of money between the two
extremes of society.
There is no difference in usefulness, brains, brawn or
morality.
Therefore, you who think that your era of a happy married
life must wait till you have an abundance of money are making
the gravest of all mistakes.
It is when you and your consort are planning to rise to
new levels of power as taught in the third and fourth chapters
MAGNETIC CONSORTS Otfo
of this work that you will be most happy. Then there will
be the magnetism of a life anticipation in securing the higher
levels to which to rise, and this magnetism will bind husband
and wife close to each other. This method has been in use
for many years in many of our families who study magnetism,
and it has proved powerful enough to maintain a constant
interest and holds husbands and wives to each other in the
happiest unions.
In summing up this part of our present work we find that
there are two divisions of allurements :
1. The false.
2. The true.
The false allurements are those influences that men and
women fly to in their first efforts to get away from the awful
burden of facts, and they may be summed up in the foUowing
list. It must be remembered that people cannot endure mere
facts, as the human mind and heart are built of the intelligence
and emotions that rise above facts. For this reason they
MUST have allurements ; and if they will not find them
naturally, they will make them artificially. The false allure-
ments or drowning influences that bury up the tediousness of
facts are :
1. Alcohol.
2. Morphine.
3. Cocaine.
4. Drugs that deaden the mind ;
including opium and
nicotine ; as cigar, pipe and cigarette smoking plays some
portion of this influence, and are easily given up when there
is a true allurement to urge on the habits to other lines of
attraction.
5. Idle pleasures, as when the rich indulge in games of
golf, cards, gambling, horse-races, coaching, auto-riding,
theatres, dinners, week-ends, dances, novels, sensations, and
other diversions, to the total exclusion of the plainer duties
of domestic life and partnership with nature. One unending
round of pleasure leaves the mind hungry for what it cannot
have, and the heart a wreck ; so that, added to these diver-
sions, there always comes the ruin of the body through
stimulants and the ruin of mind and heart through the softening
effect of luxury, just as the brain is softened into paresis by
394 SEX MAGNETISM
sexual excesses. Such a mode of living is sure to bring the
most abject misery on earth. A chain that cannot be broken
except by poverty binds the rich to this kind of unending
folly. They cannot get out of its meshes and are compelled
to defend it the best they can.
6. The wild chase after excessive wealth is an allurement
that always has one end ; sorrow and failure in the goal of
existence. People who are burdened by the weight of facts
in drudgery and routine toil say they will be supremely happy
if they can find the way to get wealth. When they succeed,
as many do, they run either to the extreme of miserly penury,
cutting themselves off from the happiness of life ; or they run
to the other extreme of being idly rich, and thus joining the
compost profession, which has been fully described herein,
the chief value of the latter being to furnish fertilization to
the earth both during their existence and after they die.
7. The allurement of resting is one of the most potent of
the evil influences of life. It makes the tramp, the lazy man
and woman in middle ranks, and the idle rich. They all
belong to the fertilizer-class. The good book says that if a
man will not work he shall not eat ; but he does eat, and
still he has his value in the world ;
for, without him, there
would be a scarcity of nutriment with which to carry on the
processes of growth in the earth. The lazy class have no hope
of heaven ; for there cannot be a greater contradiction of
religion and nature than the existence of any person who,
being able, will not do useful work ;
or, being given a body
fit to work with, so eats and luxuriates, or loafs and deteriorates,
that useful work is impossible. Some day disease will be
made a crime ; for the world is awaking to the fact that it
is always the fault of somebody.
8. Then there is the false allurement of appetite. Some
persons live from meal to meal, and their anticipations of
pleasure are limited to what enjoyment they can get for the
stomach. The only right way to eat is to make food sub-
servient to the demands of a healthy body and mind ; all else
being gluttony.
On the side opposite these allurements that are false can
be found those that are true and that, in fact, bring genuine
happiness ; not in theory, but in the proved histories of many
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 395
famiHes who have adopted them in the past thirty years or
more :
1. The first true allurement is the love of useful domestic
and wage-earning work.
2. The second true allurement is the margin above what is
earned and what is spent until there is a home free from all
debt as the reward of toil.
3. The third allurement is forming a partnership with
nature ; for this brings on the most powerful of all influences
in human life. This is taught in the several courses of these
teachings, and into this important work you should enter.
But for the purposes of this present course in magnetism
it can be said that a partnership with nature is joining forces
with her forces in outdoor life, and making her impulses
yours in garden and lawn, in orchard and field, and in all
her beauties and offerings everywhere. The man who puts
on his walls the great paintings of natural scenes may die from
lack of life ; but he who becomes a part of those scenes will
live because of the fullness of life. That is magnetism, and
it invites the support of nature. The promise of heaven is
built on language taken from the best gifts of earth. There
is not a word about heaven's glory that is not a picture of
the beauties and grandeur found in this world. If heaven
is no greater than the magnificence of its description, then it
is no greater than the best things of this globe, for the descrip-
tion merely likens heaven to those things that are found here.
One long, unending train of happy experiences attends a
partnership with nature, as has been attested by thousands
of devotees to these teachings ;
and, above all, nature stands
night and day by the side of every person who is her partner.
No harm, no disease, no misfortune, no failure, no unhappi-
ness can come to such devotee, as is amply proved. A special
design is created for the watchful care and helpful maintenance
of everyone who is helping nature make the earth more like
heaven, and the home a veritable heaven, as its own name
implies. Here are allurements that make the eight false
influences seem shameful.
They are noble attractions.
4. When an excess of wealth has been acquired, which
means when the assured income, under proper economy, is
896 SEX MAGNETISM
greater than the expenditure, then this excess must not be
allowed to make the mind and heart penurious and mean, nor
the face rat-shaped ; but it must be employed right out in
the lap of nature, extending the partnership that has been
begun. It is wrong to allow an inch of land to go uncultivated
or running to weeds. Cottages should be built on estates,
and little gardens should surround the cottages, and families
of worthy and industrious labourers should be given homes
and work to do, so that they may support themselves and lay
aside a margin against old age. It is your duty to know
where the money goes that you give to charity and in the
employment of labour of every kind. Many persons of wealth
have followed these doctrines with the result that they have
reformed men of drinking habits. Finding work for men who
live in cities, and who will not go into the country, is wrong ;
and nature resents such charity. There are thousands of people
in this country who are worth tens of thousands of pounds.
They have an excess of what is a proper expenditure in their
annual budget. Let them each build one cottage a year,
and there place a family at living wages, and the result
would be thousands of new homes where poverty would be
impossible, and health and temperance would be assured
if the employer looked after their interests as he should,
since they are in his charge. As each family would average
more than three persons, and probably four, these present-
day wasters of wealth would be placing thousands of people
out of the reach of poverty. The barons of riches must
not forget the massing of idle men is making a new French
Revolution possible, with a different date, and a different
name, but the same bloodthirsty hate of the arrogant classes ;
and that, as in the French Revolution of more than a hundred
years ago, the peasants were not involved, so in the approach-
ing cataclysm of classes, the safety of the barons of wealth
is in a contented peasantry. This plan is the only method
that is in harmony with nature. That it can be made to work
is already known, for it has been tried for many years, and
there are to-day in the employ of the rich classes many
thousands of people on estates such as we have described.
But what is wanted is the building of cottages on estates
at the rate of thousands a year. The cost of living is too high,
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 397
far too high. The remedy is in the methods stated, and in
no other way. Here is the allurement for those who have an
excess of income ; as we had an allurement for those who
lacked such an excess.
5. The fifth allurement is in the saving of magnetic margins
under the teachings of the tenth chapter.
6. The sixth allurement is in the creation of a Charmland
for yourself and your consort, as taught in the eleventh chapter
of this course.
7. The seventh allurement is in the brief daily and weekly
anticipation which you must establish for yourself and your
consort, and for both to enjoy together. These anticipations
must be realized. The mother who promises her child sweets
if he will stop crying, and who forgets to keep her promise,
loses the confidence of the child. We have known little boys
and girls who were actually suffering from thirst which the
stupid mother did not know enough to relieve, and who were
promised sweets if they would keep quiet, to stop their demands
and go on suffering only to be treacherously deceived by the
promise. The allurement in the form of anticipation must be
honest, and no amount of excuse on the ground of forgetful-
ness on the part of the promiser can atone for the failure to
do what has been agreed upon. It requires a mind that is a
mind to furnish these anticiaptions. Cheap brains will give
birth to almost nothing, and will find the duties too irksome
when they attempt to hunt for something that is genuinely
worth having, as the means of brightening the lives of others.
The first duty of a husband is to his wife ; and of a wife
to her husband. After thinking out one thing that will be
worth while, another will come to mind, for like breeds like,
and the faculty of giving pleasure is a gift that grows with
usage. Probably this means of making marriage happy is
the most magnetic of all, for the little anticipations may all
be realized in a short time, while the big anticipations may
never be fully worked out. Try them.
8. The eighth allurement is in the life goal. There should
be something to live for that will include both parties. The
husband may desire to become a great man in his line of work,
but that does not help the wife, unless she can be brought
to feel his ambition and to sympathize with it.
398 SEX MAGNETISM
There are many notable cases where the husband has risen
to the highest rank in political power, aided all along the way
by his wife, and both have been happy together. There are
also many cases in the professions where the wife has pushed
the husband on to the achievement of fame and success, in
which she has shared the fruits of victory. If the man can be
wholly loyal to the woman in such matters as home attention
and fidelity of marriage vows, he will merit her aid, and there
is no better bond of magnetism than that for such persons.
The greatest happiness, however, has come to those who are
neither rich nor poor, neither famous nor infamous, who have
struggled together from the first days of wedlock to the last
hours of existence, hand in hand and heart to heart, true and
tried, honourable and honoured, but unknown to the great
world. They have done their work better than all other classes.
9. Self-impressions make the ninth allurement.
10. Outward feelings make the tenth allurement.
These are always seen at work in a pair of magnetic powers,
as one gives birth to the other.
The best example of a self-impression is a mental vision,
such as genius will behold. It is the result of natural or acquired
magnetism. The latter, being more scientific, secures greater
accuracy, and becomes of higher value on that account. The
greatest all-round genius the world has ever known is Michael
Angelo—architect, poet, painter and prose writer. The greatest
cathedral ever built on this globe is the fruit of his brain.
In his mental eye he saw it finished before the first stone was
set. Angelo performed nothing that he could not previously
behold as a fact in his mental vision. His faces and forms were
to him living existences as real as those things of substance
are to other minds. It is said more than once of him that he
could not distinguish readily between the picture of his mind
and the picture of his canvas.
HOW CAME IMAGINATION ?
QUESTION
" How came imagination to the brain,
Stirring the fibred cells till nerves alert
Sped messages of life to flesh inert,
And all the marvellous things of joy or pain
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 399
Filled mind and body ? Came it by the main
Method and law old Nature must assert
As the blue lotus or the ruby's stain
Or, by sheer accident law failed t' avert ?
ANSWER
Came it that love might fear and fearless die.
Came it that blood might steal Promethean fires.
Came it that thought might drain the fount of truth.
Came it that self, the spirit -lark, might fly
With the great sun, and sing as night expires.
Came it that soul might know and win immortal youth."
The architect of St. Peter's at Rome, this same Angelo, was
the foremost painter of all time ; and yet in all ways a normal
man with a normal mind. His power of mental vision gave
him his genius as a poet, architect and painter ;
and wherever
this power is limited the genius is less, but where the power is
increased the genius is enhanced. Emerson, in his account of
the visions that are living truths in the lives of great men,
says
" Not from a vain or shallow thought
His awful Jove young Phidias brought
Never from lips of cunning fell
The thrilling Delphic oracle ;
Out from the heart of nature rolled
The burdens of the Bible old ;
The litanies of the nations came,
Like the volcano's tongue of flame
Up from the burning core below
The canticles of love and woe.
The hand that rounded Peter's dome,
And groined the aisles of Christian Rome,
Wrought in a sad sincerity ;
Himself from God he could not free ;
He builded better than he knew ;
The conscious stone to beauty grew.
For out of Thought's interior sphere
These wonders rose to upper air.
The word unto the prophets spoken
Was writ on tablets yet unbroken ;
The word by seers or sibyls told,
In groves of oak, or fanes of gold,
Still floats upon the morning wind,
Still whispers to the willing mind."
400 SEX MAGNETISM
In analyzing the power that comes from mental vision, it
will be found that self-impressions are built up by the interest
the mind takes in the work to be done, while the outward
feeling places the result in tangible form.
No man can become an architect, even for one building, who
does not see the end at the start. He cannot make an intelli-
gent plan unless he knows what he is to do before he starts to
do it. A very commonplace architect, having worked in an
office, might imitate the ideas he has become familiar with
but they lived in the minds of other people before he saw them.
The creative genius does not copy, but gives birth to ideas. In
such case his mental vision takes shape in self-impressions,
and then in outward feelings, building and placing his work in
actual form, complete in all details.
Herein is found the chief difference between the talker and
the orator. The former has words and ideas, perhaps, in
abundance, and may talk and talk endlessly ; but the orator
has mental vision. Facts turn to fancies before his gaze, and
he lives in creations of his own. His hearers are borne
upward to higher realms than they have occupied before ;
while the talker, be he ever so voluble or emphatic,
soon wearies because he has facts only to deal with. The
genius builds beautiful edifices on facts, and not facts on
facts.
To become great in genius is to develop more and more
the power of mental vision in all its uses, in art, in oratory,
in the professions, in inventions, in thought, in private life
and in the highest uses of anticipation, even lifting the soul
up to its noblest ideals. Students often wonder why there is
so complex a work as Universal Magnetism at the climacteric
stage of this course ; but this one phase of that study alone
shows the necessity for a grand system of training in this
exalted power.
There have been many inquiries why the author of these
systems has been a student of the dramatic instincts in men
and women. The answer is that the child is a natural actor,
and is then fresh from the hand of nature. In later life it
has been found that the child who takes up the profession
of the stage is either a genius or is not ; most of the actors
being in the " not " class. Once in a while a genius comes to
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 401
the front, like the elder Booth, and also Edwin Booth, or Salvini,
Bernhardt, Forrest, Keane, Siddons, Garrick and others whose
fame will live for centuries yet.
It was a well-known trait of David Garrick that he saw
his counterparts standing before him. "I can summon any
of the cast at will," he said, " and I can see them in the flesh
before me." His power as an actor was stimulated, not by
the mediocre people with whom he played in the parts, but
by the people as they ought to have been—fit foil for
his art.
This ability has been present in the work of every genius
in the drama ; and it is the reason why one man or woman
will be lacking in genius and some other will possess it. The
commercialism must leave the work, and the only ambition
must be to act up to the highest possible standards. A famous
actress, now living, was once asked how she, so beautiful then,
could play Juliet to the Romeo of a very unattractive man
who was in the cast. She replied :
" I do not see him, but the
real Romeo, when I am on the stage." She has often referred
to many instances where she has beheld characters in the
flesh, but having the same positions and general movements
of those who, in fact, are present. There are thousands of
anecdotes told along the same line, and of every great man
or woman who has been in the drama. In one case Booth,
when his counterpart had left the stage, went on with the
play with his mental vision of the character until the man
again appeared, having missed his cue.
Edwin Booth was, perhaps, the best type of real genius the
modern stage has known. He has said many times that he
could at will construct on the air in front of him any per-
sonage with whom he was to act, and could see the face, form,
play of features and stage movements in exact detail, just
as vividly as any actor in the flesh could appear. But the
actors he saw mentally were of far greater stamina than those
that were in the flesh.
A well-known painter said : "I wanted a face, and could
not find one that seemed right. I thought intensely on the
face I desired, and one stood forth in the air in front of me
so very lifelike that I started to touch it, but could not. Still
I held it there in my mind until I had painted it. I am sure
26
402 SEX MAGNETISM
that artists have this power of summoning forms and faces
to suit their needs."
It is also known that intense thinking, accompanied by a
high degree of magnetism, will bring almost anything before
the mind that is wanted, and, on the other hand, will keep
the mind clear when visitations are not wanted. The visions
are not those of spiritualism, but simply creations out of
nothing but the mind. A man who desired to make a plan of
a magnificent house better than anything he had ever known,
or that had ever been known to him ; not in size, but in varia-
tion of structure, thought of it until he had not the power to
proceed, and he gave up the matter for a year. Happening by
chance to come upon a course of training, * " The Realization
System," he mastered that study, and again by chance
undertook the work of making the plan that he at first failed
in. He now thought about it very intensely, and the building
stood before him one afternoon in a nearby field. " That is
the building, and someone has been at work on my ideas."
On going into the field he found the building to be but the
creation of his own brain. He was able to transfer it to his
studio, and there to make drawings as he desired, there being
many surprising details that were filled in without his aid or
suggestion, as far as he knew ;
although his sub-conscious
mind may have been at work while he slept.
Unseen powers surround humanity.
There have been many things in the experience of magnetic
people that have come about unsolicited. Some persons imagine
that magnetism brings on unwilling things, as hypnotism
does ; but the opposite is true. The magnetic person has only
to make commands and their own will-powers obey instantly.
In such a study as Universal Magnetism, after its work
has been completed faithfully, the graduate is able to
make any command of the will-power and it will obey.
This has been tested in thousands of ways. People who are
troubled with halucinations may drive them off in a second.
Men and women who have been fearful that they would
develop some form of mental derangement have been able to
put the mind into safe condition any moment of the day or
night.
* Published by Psychology Publishing Co., Ltd.
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 403
Magnetism, therefore, while it increases the will-power, is
master of it also. It is able to keep away the visions not wanted,
and to bring on visions that are desired.
Magnetism works while the body sleeps as well as when it
is awake.
It is one of the common phases of high magnetism that it
will carry on during the unconscious state of the brain any
operation given it just before, and while sleep is coming on.
This is also one of the characteristics of a psychic process.
Thus far in this chapter we have reached the following laws :
1. The law of high magnetism which makes it possible to
attract any power needed to aid human life.
2. The law of self-impressions, by which the mind, aided by
high magnetism, is able to create anything and give it actual
existence to the eye outwardly.
3. The law that magnetism works during sleep as well as
in full wakefulness.
These three laws have been as amply explained as is possible
in the present work. They are so extended and involve so much
training that they are helped by every day's study of the higher
grades of magnetism.
But, for the purpose of testing the work herein, they are
sufficient with the help that this book alone affords. Enough
can be gained in results to warrant making the following
experiments.
Take any quotation you please and build the reality from it,
making the form appear to your eyes that is described in the
words :
1.
The following extract is taken from Pinckney's poem :
" Of her bright face one glance will trace
A picture on the brain,
And of her voice in echoing hearts
A sound must long remain ;
But memory, such as mine of her,
So very much endears,
When death is nigh, my latest sigh
Will not be life's, but hers."
The test is made by repeating the words from this page until
there seems to be built in the mind some form of woman of
404 SEX MAGNETISM
whom this may be said. The beginning will be vague for some
time. There should be quiet and exclusion of all other mat-
ters, so that the mind may be wholly devoted to this test. It
is not intended that the vision be actual at present, as stronger
words and pictures will follow. But this step should not be
neglected, as it leads the way to other tests.
2.
The next quotation is taken from the short poem of Dinah
Mulock Craik :
" Yet is this girl I sing in naught uncommon,
And very far from angel yet, I trow.
Her faults, her sweetnesses, are purely human ;
Yet she's more lovable as simple woman
Than any one diviner that I know."
The mental picture should present the following points in
detail :
A young woman who is like common girls, with nothing
grand or unusual in her appearance or manner, should be in
mind.
No attempt must be made to imagine her an angel of a
woman, as the saying goes.
She must seem to be human in her faults, and human in her
attractions ; and these may shine in her face.
Blended with the simplicity of her womanhood there should
be the loftier sweetness of one who is rare and rich in lovable
qualities.
These details must be repeated and then allowed to enter
the mind until they are absorbed in its thoughts. By devoting
a few minutes a day to the practice, if there is magnetism in
the brain, the picture of the girl will stand faintly before the
gaze.
3.
The next quotation is taken from the poem of Samuel Rogers,
entitled " The Sleeping Beauty " :
" Sleep on ! and dream of heaven awhile !
Though shut so close thy laughing eyes,
Thy rosy lips still wear a smile,
And move, and breathe delicious sighs.
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 405
Ah ! now soft blushes tinge her cheeks
And mantle o'er her neck of snow ;
Ah ! now she murmurs, now she speaks,
What most I wish, and fear, to know."
The picture to be brought before the mind is that of a very
beautiful girl asleep. Her eyes are shut close, although they were
laughing eyes, and full of happy mirth when open. Still, the face
is wreathed in pleasant lines and the rosy lips wear a smile.
Slowly the cheeks change colour, and the white shifts to soft
pink-like blushes, and these creep gradually down to the snowy
neck, which also changes in hue. The lips seem about to
speak. A murmur comes from them.
These pictures are very easily impressed on the mind, and
from the power of mental sight they can in time be trans-
ferred to the air. This test has been the easiest of all in this
line of work during many years of private instruction, and
no person has failed to make the visions perfect in the course
of a few weeks.
4.
" Like to the clear in highest sphere,
Where all imperial glory shines,
Of selfsame colour in her hair,
Whether unfolded, or in twines ;
Her eyes are sapphires set in snow,
Resembling heaven by every wink ;
The gods do fear them as they glow,
And I do tremble when I think.
Her cheeks are like the blushing cloud
That beautifies Aurora's face,
Or like the silver crimson shroud
That Phoebus' smiling looks doth grace :
Her lips are like two budded roses
Whom ranks of lilies neighbour nigh,
Within which bounds she balm encloses
Apt to entice a deity.
With orient pearl, with ruby red,
With marble white, with sapphire blue,
Her body every way is fed,
Yet soft in touch, and sweet in view ;
Nature herself her shape admires ;
The gods are wounded in her sight
And love forsakes her heavenly fires
And at her eyes his brand doth light."
406 SEX MAGNETISM
This very old and classical poem is filled with the high ideas
of a woman of stately and queenly quality, and yet rich in
the best gifts of nature and love. The successful use of the
extract to bring mental pictures before the mind, and out into
the air as though they were substance, requires an exalted
magnetism, but is within the reach of every person who is
willing to take the following steps :
1. The lines must be memorized until they become a part
of the mind.
2. They must be repeated at night after retiring, and when
there is no light in the room. The repetition is to be done
silently. The words will seem to speak aloud to the brain,
although no person could hear them but yourself, even if but
a foot away.
3. When you have succeeded in making the words seem
to be spoken aloud to the brain, while making no outward
sound in fact, you may know that you have achieved the first
and most important step in self-impression. This means that
you possess magnetism of a high order. It is of the greatest
advantage to reach this stage, although it may require months
or only a few days to do it.
4. The first mental picture must come after the words
sound aloud. This will give a mind-view of " the clear in
highest sphere, where all imperial glory shines."
5. The next picture is that of the hair, which is of a golden
colour ; then the eyes are " sapphires set in snow." These
must be made in the mind to pass from their jewel beauty to
a natural blending of the human expression.
6. The further vision brings the face to view, and it is
seen with cheeks " like the blushing cloud that beautifies
Aurora's face." The lips are like two budded roses ; and then
the whole form of the maiden is summed up in the superb
language of the last eight lines.
As the mind becomes intensified by its magnetic power it
will behold the form of the young woman standing forth in
the room. In the beginning when it first makes itself visible,
it will be like a floating veil, taking on human shape little by
little. In some reports of these experiments there seems to
be a great variation with the same person. A woman makes
the following assertion, which is known to be true with many
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 407
others :
" When I felt in the humour for the practice, the vision
would come very quickly, and seem very real. At other times
it would not come at all, and then again it would be faint. I
find that my own magnetism is not the same every day.'
The fact is that vitality varies, and with it magnetism
changes.
There are cases where intense feeling, coming on very
suddenly, will bring visions to the mind, especially if the latter
is unstrung ; but these are the unwilling visions. Let the
nerve be expectant and the mind afraid or overwrought, and
almost any kind of a vision may be expected. The man who
has been inflaming his brain with liquor sees many ugly things.
The woman who has been left alone after hearing some awful
story that has frightened her will possibly see ghosts. It is
in the power of the mind to stamp visions on the air, willingly
or unwillingly, that all the genius and aU the supernatural
effects are produced. Any person who doubts this law of nature
may experiment for himself. Just in proportion as he acquires
magnetism he will be able to bring these self-impressions
under his command, and they will all come or go in obedience
to his wishes and orders. They make him a genius, for this
power he can apply to any profession or art, or in business or
otherwise, to make him equal to the greater tasks of life. On
the other hand, let a person be a natural subject of hypnotism,
which means that he utterly lacks magnetism, and he will be
the prey of unwilling things, from small startling visions up
to every imagined ghost, and the forms will seem real to him
while they last. The cure of hypnotic tendencies in a subject
is to study magnetism. The cure of ghosts and bad visions
and wicked dreams, hysteria and the like, is in mastermg
magnetism.
Having acquired the power to create at will any outward
feeling, the last moments of the waking period just prior to
faUing asleep should be devoted to making a mental picture
of some person of the opposite sex who is exactly like the person
to whom you are married, or engaged to wed, or one whom
you would like to wed. While the mental picture is to be the
same as that person, you are to do as the great actors do with
their counterparts. If a man is playing the role of Romeo,
and the Juliet is played by a woman who is not at all what an
408 SEX MAGNETISM
ideal Juliet should be, the actor always makes a mental picture
of the ideal Juliet ; that is, if the actor has genius. He then
sees all through the play where these two characters come
together the ideal Juliet in the attitudes and work of the real
actress.
The vision is seemingly a fact.
If a woman is playing Juliet and the Romeo is not up
to her standard, then, if she has genius, she will make a mental
picture of the ideal Romeo, and to this picture will take the
place of the actor who in fact plays the part.
This method has been in use for centuries and is taught
by nature.
It embodies the old law of emotions being greater than
facts. The facts are the two players, Romeo and Juliet in
the flesh ;
the emotions are their ideals ; and the latter are
always better and greater in every way than the facts.
In so far as the emotions of the actor's genius are able to
lift the character out of the individual of flesh who plays it,
to that extent will the audience be lifted out of their dull
appreciation of the commonplace fact and be made to enjoy
the ideals.
The effect is twofold.
The actor whose mental visions are able to create ideals in
place of facts will have before him a richer enjoyment of the
conditions he is able to establish. But he will also add to the
pleasure of those who are within range of his creations. He
will find his power useful to himself and to others. The same
is true of the artist ; he will love his art through its ideals
and through those only ; never through the commonplaces of
it ;
and he will give genuine pleasure to others who are capable
of appreciating his art. There is no power in the world that
can do either of these things except the power of mental
pictures. The architect has much pleasure in his own creations,
and he gives lasting pleasure to others by the results of his
ability.
Thus the power of mental-picturing is always twofold.
A man is able to make himself what is called blind to the
faults and defects of his wife by creating an ideal woman as
near like her as circumstances will allow ; and, in turn, he will
lift her up to the standard that he creates.
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 409
It is the same law at work in this use as in art, and all
forms of special power.
The steps are to be taken as already described, and may
be summed up as follows :
1. There must be the power of magnetism as the basis.
2. There must be practice in developing ideals by first
using quotations to furnish the subject-matter.
3. Then there must be the making of your own ideal suited
to some living person, and creating only such improvements
as your wishes indicate.
4. The absorption into your nervous system is the final
step. This takes place under psychic law. In a general way
these laws are stated as taking into one's mind and body through
the nervous system any feeling or idea that is lodged in the
mind just as it is leaving consciousness for unconsciousness.
In the waking hours the mind is in working condition.
Sleep puts a stop to the work of the mind unless there is
fever or irritation of some kind, in which case there may be
delirium or dreams. A dream of the conscious mind occurs
when it is unable to pass into sound sleep, or is coming out of
it. No sound sleeper ever dreams when in full slumber. But
the subconscious mind carries on much of the work of life
in the absence of the working mind. It sometimes takes part
during waking hours with the ordinary mental forces ;
but
does its greatest work in what is called the reverie. Then the
conscious mind also gets a grasp of the other mind ;
almost
recognizes it ; almost knows it by contact.
The reverie is the mind standing on one threshold, while the
other mind, that of extraordinary powers, is standing on the
opposite threshold ; neither in fuU possession of the individual.
It is in the reverie that aU the great geniuses of the world
have achieved their victories over facts and commonplaces.
The exact conditions of the reverie are found at any time,
night or day, when a person is just falling to sleep. The minds
are in that half-entrance to the brain, and one is able to pick
up from the other any order, wish or command. It is a rule
of the other mind that it will obey implicitly any such order,
wish or command of the working mind, if the latter can reach
the former ; and this contact is possible only in the genume
reverie and in the stepping out of wakefulness into slumber.
410 SEX MAGNETISM
By countless experiments (the results are fully given and ex-
plained in our book, Other Mind) it has been proved beyond
all doubt that a command, wish or order given by a magnetic
person in the interval just preceding sleep will be taken up
and executed by the controlling mind of the body.
This other mind obeys implicitly. It never assumes that
it is to argue or discuss the command ; but it simply puts it
into execution. There is never any doubt about the results
when the following conditions agree :
1. There must be magnetism to act as a carrying power to
convey the orders from the conscious mind to the other mind.
2. The only time when the other mind can be reached with
orders from the conscious mind is when there is some form of
lapse, reverie or fading consciousness. Lapses and reveries
come in full wakefulness and are taken advantage of by
experts in magnetism, and by 'the world's great men and
women ;
for it is this power that makes a person great. But
the approach of sleep can always be used by every person ;
and the only advantage of magnetism is that it merely makes
the results come sooner and in greater distinctness.
Wishes and mental pictures which are made clear and strong
during a lapse, reverie or fading wakefulness, conveyed by
magnetism, become a part of the life of a person engaged in
so employing them.
Assuming that you have magnetism, it can be said with
certainty that every mental picture that you are able to create
will become a part of your own life through nervous absorption.
Any wish, hope, desire or command will likewise become a
reality in the same way.
The reality will remain permanent. As we all live in our
emotions and tire of facts very soon, the same realism is attained
in this way that is secured by the young man or woman who
is blinded in judgment by the impulse called love. In a few
lives that impulse is never lost, but lives on through old age
and is carried to the grave. But in a vast majority it is lost
soon after the engagement is accepted by both parties, and is
pretty sure to be obliterated entirely by marriage in nearly
every individual.
But the control of the mind and the sway of the feelings,
while love-blindness lasts, cannot be denied.
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 411
It resists all counter influences. .
Here the first part of the present course converges and joins
the last part of the training. Both ends meet, and all that
con.es between is interwoven in this work. Every road that
is ascending in its grade seeks the highest level ;
and all
roads that ascend a mountain are sure to meet at the top.
Looking back to the first chapter, which should never be
forgotten, the student will find the plan of nature explained.
Marriage is intended in part as the means of saving the human
race In order to make this means sure, nature brings the two
sexes together with much intensity of interest ;
and they are
made to believe each other the highest ideal in existence.
This is the blindness of love.
But reproduction is not the only purpose of blinding the
sexes to the faults of each other. There is a period when
these emotions hold such control over the mind and heart,
and the ideal seems so great that each party seeks to become
worthy of the other, and becomes more refined, more polished
more careful of what is said and done, and more desirous of
seeming better than others, so that there is a distinct improve-
ment of mind, body and morals.
As the law of the survival of the fittest has been m opera-
tion for countless thousands of years, and is made effective
chiefly in the period when mates select each other, the best
preferring the best, and as this law of the survival of the
fittest is the cause of evolution and the agency by which
evolution and even civilization have been made possible, and
is the same law whereby humanity finds its way to rise step
by step out of its lower conditions, it must be regarded as the
most important principle in this world's existence.
Nature, therefore, is shrewd and keen, for she works a
twofold result in this law :
1. She makes lovers blind to each others faults, and so
brings them together with an intensity of interest.
2 She makes them, in their blindness, improve themselves
in every possible way so as to add to their attractiveness,
each to the other.
In this brief period, all too brief, we are sorry to say, the
impulse is set in motion that makes the world better ;
slightly
better it is true, but nevertheless better. So important is
412 SEX MAGNETISM
that period to humanity that, if it were omitted, there would
be absolutely nothing on which to build any improvement.
The foregoing is, in condensed form, the story told in the
first chapter of this course.
In the present chapter we find that magnetism is able
to restore permanently that same exalted regard that nature
instituted for her special ends ; that the man, even the husband
of years, may come into a new feeling for his wife ; and that
she may come into a new feeling for him ; the result being
that both will seek to merit the better opinions thus secured.
The final step in this practice is the creation of magnetic
consorts. A consort is a husband of a woman, or a wife of a
man. The actual consort is the husband or wife in the flesh.
The magnetic consort is the husband or the wife in mental
pictures.
When an author sets out to write a novel he is pretty sure
to found it upon some kind of a love story. He seeks as his
heroine a young lady of superior quality. She has a better
form than any young woman he has ever seen ; she has a
prettier face and finer ways than the best girl of his acquaint-
ance. That is his ideal heroine. Many authors have had
their lives sweetened by the influence of these imaginary
women, but they miss the opportunity of making these char-
acters magnetic consorts by not having the power to absorb
the personality of the ideal heroine into their own lives. It
requires a high degree of magnetism to do this, and then the
result is the same as if the author were married to such a
woman and retained his love-blindness for her.
Assuming that a magnetic man has gone far enough in
mental-picturing to produce an ideal woman, just as the author
does in his mind before he begins to write his novel, he must
complete the work by the following steps :
1. The ideal must be absorbed into his own nature.
2. She must be made the chief character in a plot or bit
of human history, not complicated in its structure.
3. He must be the one person above all others who is
desired by the ideal he has created.
Authors go some ways in their mental-picturing, but they
come short of final success because they lack magnetism, and
also because they are not in the plot themselves. The story
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 413
is not directed to them in the second person, but all the char-
acters are in the third person to the author. The latter should
be the hero in developing magnetic consorts.
The only difference between an ideal heroine of a novel, as
conceived by an author, and his magnetic consort is that he
does not himself enter into the plot ; and if he does, he prob-
ably is wanting in magnetic power.
It has been argued that the practice of creating magnetic
consorts leads a man or woman into authorship, and stimu-
lates their minds to take up that profession whether they will
or not. In reply to this claim, it may be said that no man or
woman who does not wish to take up the profession of author-
ship need do so. There is nothing that compels the avocation.
Magnetism, as a rule, shows the better vocations of life, and
if the authorship is one of them, the call will be very clear.
Magnetism has brought many ministers out of the pulpit
because it has shown a fitness for other work ; and it has brought
some great preachers into the pulpit by showing them that
their former vocations were wasted effort. The same rule
would prevail in authorship.
But the ability to create a character and a plot is one of
the most pleasing diversions ever engaged in for man or
woman. In that plot you, if you are a husband, may find a
wife that is perfect, and you may spend many happy hours,
days and years with her. Gradually you will become more
refined to your own wife, and will treat her as your magnetic
consort must be treated, to be won and kept in a state of exalta-
tion. In your plot you will be the hero, and will attract
the heroine by your superior qualities. In that plot you will
be constantly bettering yourself, and this improvement will be
absorbed in your actual life.
It is going back to the conditions described in the first
chapter of this work.
It is taking nature's lesson and enlarging it, and making
the better state permanent, and thus building on nature ;
just
as the fine varieties of roses, carnations and many flowers and
fruits are built on nature's impulses and improved in every
change.
When shall these plots be made ?
In the last moments of wakefulness, just as you are falling
414 SEX MAGNETISM
asleep at night ; for what then occurs will become a part of
your life. By transferring the plot-making power to the other
mind it will be made to create something better than you can
evolve ; and this is genius.
You will refine your own nature, and its influence will give
delight to your wife, and you will draw her up to your new
level of nobility.
If you are a wife, you may find in this practice a husband
that is far superior to the one to whom you are married in the
flesh ; and you will in time blend him with your ideal. The
result will be a double benefit, affecting both you and him.
This has been done many times before, and can be done always
if you so wish.
The making of these plots whereby magnetic consorts are
produced takes no time away from any other duty. If you
belong to the psychic society it will fall right in with the practice
of that system, and thus save half of the time. A man who
had looked at first with disfavour on the practice took it
up and sent the following report : "I had been troubled for
a long time with insomnia. I took up the work of plot-making
as soon as I retired at night, and I found myself entering
into the most refreshing sleep I ever had. Each plot required
less than five minutes, and ended in sound sleep." A woman
who had been very nervous, and who took up this practice,
said :
" I had become so nervous that sleep was out of the
question. As the plan of making plots was a pleasant diver-
sion, I began the habit, and I found that I could invite sleep
at will, and my trouble disappeared." Aside from its effects
on the nerves as a matter of health, plot-making has had other
results, which are embodied in two typical letters, one from
a man reading as follows, in part :
" The most telling effect of
making plots with mental pictures has been the sweeter in-
fluence that has come into my life and my heart. I feared to
tell my wife what I was doing, but after four weeks she said
to me one day that I had become like my younger self, when
she thought there was no one in the world as nice as I was.
I dislike to quote her phrase, but you ask for exact statements,
and here they are." A woman said : "I was not as gentle a
wife as I ought to have been. My face had become sour and
rather repulsive, even to my own gaze. I know of nothing
MAGNETIC CONSORTS 415
that can so quickly bring a woman back to her better girl-
hood nature as this practice of plot-making.'
Men and women have caught the idea of this practice, and
have given it a more difficult interpretation, as may be seen
in two letters from which we quote : "It did not take me
long to grasp the meaning behind the practice of plot-making.
I saw that it was merely putting a new nature in a man and
in a woman. I saw that it could be as effectively done in
daily life as in the last moments of wakefulness. I began to
see my wife in a new light ; not as she was, but as she could
have been had nothing detracted from her grace and sweet-
ness. I began to make the plot in real life, with her as the
heroine, and both came back to the days of our first fasci-
nation for love-making, which is better than plot-making."
A woman has this to say :
" It is now three years since the
private lessons in plot-making were received. I have used
them with intense pleasure for a long time, and they bring a
finer influence to bear on all my days and nights, on all I do
and say, and in my feelings towards the man who was fast
falling out of my heart. I have now made him the hero of a
life-plot, in which we are the two characters. From the
dream of happiness we have come into its real fruit."
Thus the old law of nature, the improvement of the human
race through the impulses that are given strength and progress
in the first meeting of the two sexes in mutual admiration,
can be made a permanent rule in marriage.
Two lovers who become love-blind through their emotions
towards each other are furnished by nature for the time being
with magnetism. This remains only so long as it serves the
purpose of nature ; then it fades out, and the facts come to
the front and blindness is gone. By the reversing action of
this law the acquisition of a never-failing magnetism will
restore what was given naturally in that blissful period. It will
come to stay, when it comes in this manner.
Thus nature joins hands with her own art.
Thus the cause that makes the effect is re-made by the effect
itself.
It cannot be denied that there are men and women in this
world whose lives are ineffably sweet and are kept in good poise
all the time, no matter what clouds come over them. They
416 SEX MAGNETISM
seem inspired. We have hunted them for years and have
always taken supreme delight in forming their acquaintance,
for there is nothing so productive of genuine happiness as the
presence of such persons.
It is possible that one man in ten thousand may be of this
rare class, and that one woman in two thousand may be found
in it. They are beautiful at any age from the first years of
youth to the grey of winter. They are always magnetic ; natur-
ally so, if habits of living can be called nature. Now it is
also true that many other men and women have acquired this
sweetness and poise of heart, and from it has come the formation
of habits that are exactly like those found in the lives of the
rare few we have mentioned.
The secret is this :
All human character contains every possibility of good and
bad ; and what is drawn to the surface and stays there is the
result of habits that are accidental or acquired. When they
are accidental they are called natural ; when they are acquired
they are longer abiding because they are the fruits of the will-
power that created them and that can sustain and use them.
Magnetism draws up to the surface the best influences of
the human heart and turns them into permanent habits. No
person is hopeless. If you could only know the brutes whose
lives have been softened and sweetened by this study, you
would have a new faith in humanity. Coarse women have been
refined into pure gold, and boorish men have been made gentle
and noble ; because there is in the depths of life the good and
the bad, and the choice is a free one at all times.
The difficulty in the past has been in the lack of all power
to bring forth so grand a progeny. Magnetism is will-power,
and creates it as well as uses it. Once this will-power is set in
motion, and the right habits are established, the fruit will be
found in abundance. It is the wish of all who promulgate these
doctrines that every man who reads them may become noble
and kindly, and every woman may be made lovable and
winning.
K
WRECKAGE
NOWLEDGE is power when it is absorbed into the
jl ^nervous system, of which the brain is a part. To merely
know and understand a thing is not true knowledge, for there
must be a taking in, and using of, the thing before it can be of
value. Use is the real test. There are many things men and
women do not know about themselves that they ought to find
out before marriage ; or if that has not been done, then after
marriage, and as soon as possible ; but these things should be
more than found out ;
they should be absorbed and utilized.
As has been taught in the preceding chapter, the time
when a thing is absorbed is in the last moments of wakefulness,
just before sleep comes on at night. Any command or wish
made then and transferred from the conscious mind to the
other mind, will, by the latter, be executed and become a
part of life itself. The only difficulty is in reaching the other
mind. Many repetitions at such time wiU bring results. There
must never be discouragement because results are not speedy,
or because they do not come, for they are sure to come if there
is magnetism combined with the uses named.
It is on this principle that prayers made at the last moments
of wakefulness bring answers. The right time to pray is
just as the mind is relaxing its working power. In fact, a
person prays best who falls asleep praying. All the energy of
an intense wish, coupled with natural or acquired magnetism,
thrown into a prayer at such a time, and then given consistent
support in the way of living from day to day, is sure to bring
results. The principle is a psychic one, as any person can easily
understand who has taken up the practice of psychic laws m the
society of that name.
This is not stating that prayer is not an agency of the divine
power ; nor is it placing prayer in the mere realm of science.
AU true psychic studies prove the existence of God and the
certainty of immortality for those persons who take part in
417
27
418 SEX MAGNETISM
the upward movement of civilization towards perfect honesty
and a better home life on earth ; and the psychic laws teach
that all others return to the earth to aid in fertilizing it for the
next generations. For these reasons there is no more important
study than those same psychic laws. But they are so great
in their scope that time and space cannot be devoted to them
herein.
As God makes use of human means for human help, so the
psychic period at night is now, and has always been made
use of as the direct and powerful channel by which prayers
are answered.
It is in such periods that knowledge is absorbed into the
mind and body. Great thinkers know this, and have employed
that faculty for thousands of years. Great poets have always
known their power rests solely in the three psychic periods
of the day or night ; in lapses by day, or reverie by day or
night, or the relaxing of the working mind. Necessity of
success has made them know these periods. They also know
that their mightiest thoughts come to them in the quick jumps
of the lapsing mind, passing from one to the other mentality ;
and so they have been ready to seize their thoughts and note
them down to the very instant they have come. There has
never been a great thinker, a great poet, a great artist, a great
inventor, or other person who has possessed and developed
genius, who has not had pencil and paper ready to take down
the quick flashes of ideas that come when the mind lapses
by day under psychic laws. People at large have come to
believe that the psychic laws are occult affairs ; but they are
nothing more than the governing principles of two minds-
one giving humanity for working purposes, and the other for
reaching out after something worth while in existence.
All men and women have these two minds, but not one in
a thousand makes use of the power that might be drawn from
the inner mentality. All humanity, excepting now and then
one person, plods along with the working mind, and never
gets on in life in the true sense. It is the inner mind that
brings earthly happiness, better conditions, hope, the fruition
of desires, and the true promise of heaven. Two sets of informa-
tion are needed to give a person something worth living for
on earth :
WRECKAGE 419
1. What can be done to bring perfect honesty and better
home-life to everybody so that existence will take an upper
trend ?
2. How can such knowledge be absorbed and made a part
of life itself ?
The latter question is answered in the preceding chapter,
which teaches us to take advantage of the psychic periods
for drawing into our minds and hearts the impulses for a
nobler personality, both for ourselves and our consorts ;
or
for those who, while not married to us, are nevertheless worthy
of our esteem and influence.
Just as the actor learns his lines for a new part by taking
them to bed with him at night and falling asleep in then-
study ;
just as the hardest problems in scientific work have
been solved in such periods, and gigantic facts and principles
of invention have come into birth then, so the man or woman
who desires to make all the preceding chapters of this work
effective in actual life and in all of life's battles, so they should
be taken to bed at night, and be the last study of the waking
hours, to be followed by the putting out of the lights, the
closing of the eyes, and the making of mental plots with which
to drop asleep, always using some one of the teachings of this
course as a basis for a plot.
This is a practical use of the brain.
Most persons worry about something, and go to sleep
worrying.
Which is better—to absorb into the system the habit of
worrying, or to take into it the habit of improvement ?
It is sure to be one thing or the other. No person who has
any knowledge of the immense possibilities of using the psychic
periods can long remain out of their friendship ;
for it is now
predicted by the best educational experts of the world that
the greatest training lines of the future will be in making use
of the psychic periods, such as the lapses, reveries and relaxa-
tion of the working brain ; all of which will be found through
them.
To fall asleep at night thinking of the woes of the past
and the fears of the future is the common experience of ninety-
five persons out of every hundred of the ambitious classes.
Many of their woes and fears are born in this practice. It is
420 SEX MAGNETISM
from such habits that life gets its toboggan, and loses its firm
grip on the world. Something better is close by.
Let us see what it is.
For some weeks this book should be taken into one's bed-
room, and some of its teachings should be gone over and
reviewed in the mind. It is the purpose of the present chapter
to state in condensed form some of the most important truths
in this work, and to add suggestions that will be of help in
making it a success. If you take the book to your bed at
night, open it first to this chapter, and here get the stimulus
to go back over the previous pages for help and power. The
great truths may be summed up as follows :
1. Man is not refined enough. His larger refinements are
to his advantage in society ; but the best cultured men as
husbands are not in the habit of showing the many little
refinements that a woman will most appreciate.
2. When a man gives way to his lack of little refinements
he is sure to lose his wife's best regard, or to drive her to a
lower level in her own habits.
3. Refinement without prudery, and modesty without
repellent ways, are necessary for the retention of respect and
love. There is something in the boor that is never lovable,
whether this character is of men or women.
4. Most women are too talkative on matters that are trivial.
A woman's opinion and judgment are not valuable unless they
arrive at a conclusion that is based on good sense. It is true,
as has been stated by other women who are writers of their
own sex, that one woman will become the enemy of another
when the latter copies her hat or gown, or for some similar
reason or lack of reason. The bent of woman's mind is such
that her old-time inheritance rules her, rather than the prin-
ciples of civilization. Women that talk much are not good
listeners, and therefore absorb only what their emotions catch ;
nor are they good students. The first principle of the student
habit is to be a good listener and let the tongue have a rest.
5. There are women in the world who succeed in business
because of their judgment and good sense. They are always
quiet women. Imagine, if you will, a successful woman who
is a voluble talker. It is a contradiction on its face.
6. There have been six thousand years, at least, of female
WRECKAGE 421
slavery, in which period woman has been the abject serf of
her husband, her father or her brother. In that time she has
felt her wrongs ; and nature, bursting forth in the expression
of these wrongs, has developed in time a Darwinian section of
her brain that finds its vent in the clatter of the scolding tongue.
7. This scolding habit has become a mental disease. It
has never been cured, when once it is established. The ducking
stool has been tried for centuries, but while the water may
drown the voice, it has never drowned the disease, unless it has
drowned the woman ; and if such strenuous methods will not
check scolding, what can a poor, meek husband do with such
a woman. There are many ways of finding out the nature of
a girl in this repect ; for a long courtship will discover all
the incurable faults of both sexes.
8. The curable faults are well covered in courtship ;
and
if this state lasts long enough it will reform the faults. The
incurable faults, such as scolding and the drink habit, when
in the blood, may be concealed by the crafty man or woman ;
but not after the commonplaces begin to appear, as they are
sure to do in a prolonged courtship. A mother says to her
daughter :
" Annie, if Jack does not marry you soon, he will
find you out. You cannot keep up this appearance much
longer." The appearance referred to was that of being quiet
and gentle. This Annie had a tongue that was sharp and
active, and she had claws concealed in her hands. But Jack
was wise—he waited and found her out. Then he started
another courtship, and found at last a woman who would make
his home a heaven instead of the place that Annie would have
made it.
9. Nine men out of ten who have married in a hurry, or
after a short courtship, have secured wives that are making
their lives unendurable, and the surprise is that men stand
this eternal drag on their efforts to better themselves. The
chief fault in such women is their scolding tongues.
10. One thing is known well enough, but not given heed ;
and it is the law of human nature that makes a man or woman
what one will, if the other party proceeds right. A man is a
mixed devil and saint ; a woman is a mixed she-devil and an
angel. All persons have two parents, four grand-parents,
eight great-grand-parents, and, going back twenty-two genera-
422 SEX MAGNETISM
tions, they have more than one million ancestors. Heredity
governs all persons. If your parents were perfect, it is safe to
say that your ancestors sometime back were hung as thieves
or criminals. The children of a saint may be as bad as it is
possible for children to be, and their grand-parents may control
them in their blood. You can never tell what will break out
in the next generation, or how far back the influence of heredity
may run.
11. You can touch a certain spring in man-nature and open
out the floodgates of a past power that is most infernal in
its character ; or you may touch another spring in the same
man and open out another floodgate of gentleness and noble
qualities. Every man has both influences locked up in his
heredity.
This is seen in many boys and girls that play about the
streets. Most of the boys are not born criminals, and will grow
up to be good men if their good springs can be touched, or will
grow up to be habit-criminals if their bad springs are touched.
The born criminal boy and the born prostitute girl is incur-
able except by death. If nature could be consulted, the born
criminal would be put to death for his own good and for the
good of the world ; and the born prostitute would be put to
death for the same good reasons. Then there would be fewer
born criminals. That class can never be cured, and the fact
is known too well to be discussed. The habit-criminal and the
habit-prostitute are curable. It is best to save them before
the age of fourteen ; next best before the age of fifteen ; next
best before the age of sixteen, and so on, each year of delay
making the habit harder to shake off. Much as the world is
given to sentiment through its weak and flabby women, there
will come a time when nature will make humanity kill off all its
incurable criminals or prostitutes, which may be done in one
generation by segregation so they may not create offspring.
One simple little lapse of time, known to us as a generation,
and to nature as a second, will kill them all off, and not a life
be taken. This seems easy, but the present public is too selfish
to understand it.
12. In marriage the woman who once touches the devil-
spring in her husband may not let out the contents of that
side of his character ; but if she keeps on touching it, she will
WRECKAGE 423
be sure to do so. No man is so angelic as to be a saint when
you are touching nothing but his inherited evil nature. He
is not to blame for having a devil side. He did not choose his
parents, or his grand-parents, or his million ancestors ;
and
when he is compeUed to fight an army of a million bad men
and women in his blood, and a termagant wife in the flesh,
he is just human, and nothing more, when he spills his devil-
character all over the house.
13. The greatest of all mistakes is that which places blame
on a person for inherited tendencies. The born criminal and
the born prostitute are not to blame. They were born as they
are, and the world must take the consequences. The hope of
civilization is not in curing the incurables, but in preventing
and curing the habit-nature when it is wrong. The cat eats
the canary, and the cat is whipped ;
but the feline sees
no point in being whipped, for she says she was born a cat
and not a rose, and as cats for thousands of years have eaten
birds, what is there in the habit to be whipped ? The tiger
is a mean animal, and wiU kill human beings, but it is not to
blame ; it was born that way. The snake is venomous, and is
hated ; but why blame the snake, as it ,vas born with venom
in its blood. If every man and every woman has two natures,
why blame them ? If you pound a bad child, you will pound
the bad into him, and not out of him. No wicked person,
young or old, was ever reformed by being punished. The only
sensible method of dealing with that class is to find him wise
enough to discover the born criminal from the habit-criminals,
and then segregate the former. Just as soon as you are sure
you have a born criminal in your possession, never let him
get away. He will be as certain to continue his crime, and
possibly commit murder, rape and arson as he is sure to be
alive, and no sentiment can save him. But civilization is not
civilization as long as it cannot determine which are the born
and incurable criminals, and which are the habit-made and
curable ones ;
and, having advanced far enough to ascertain
this fact, it will not be genuine civilization until it takes upon
itself the power to segregate the born criminals, and thus end
in one generation their evil tendencies.
14. When aU the born criminals are in their graves, then
there will be in the world the many curable criminals. The
424 SEX MAGNETISM
latter pass along to their posterity their class of habits, and
the former pass along their class. Unless insanity comes in
the brain, the habit-criminals will not give birth to incurable
criminals. Thus the disposal of the latter will save the world.
15. Civilization itself, as it stands in this age, may be
indicted on ten thousand grounds of incapacity and selfishness,
of greed, wickedness and crime, all of which are growing faster
than the good is developing in the world. Ministers say the
world is getting better ; and this is so in one direction only,
for there is a better stand among the better classes for a higher
morality. But their numbers are getting less, and the criminal
classes are growing in much greater ratio. This is due to
the fact that the latter give birth to three times as many
children as the former. Those who understand how to multiply
three times one, and to keep on doing this until you have three
million times one million, and then thirty million times ten
million, will see the next chaos and revolution of the world in
the telescope of prediction. In fact, the most indictable offender
of modern times is civilization, which, after all its boasts of
invention, has given America two million prostitutes, three
million murderers in the past ten years, sixty million law-
breakers at this very moment, interwoven systems of corpora-
tion graft, theft and public felonies that are no more likely to
be punished or checked than the sun is likely to be blotted out,
and a universal system of political corruption that has so
saturated the nation that grand juries indict with slowness,
petit juries convict only when they do not dare to acquit, and
trial judges throw such cases out of court in nine times out of
ten, showing that the judiciary, the outcome of politics, is as
dishonest as the public. It can be asserted that a thousand
cases of ballot frauds can be committed with openness, and
certainty of proof, that will never be brought to trial and con-
viction, so completely dipped in wickedness are the masses of
the people. The dear people, as demagogues call them, are told
that their enemies are the grafters and the corporation and the
trusts, when, in fact, they (the people) are their own enemies.
The toilers who are to-day being bled for twice the value of
the food they eat, blame someone higher up ; but these same
toilers, when asked to go to the polls to change the constitu-
tion that binds the courts to wicked technicalities, always stay
WRECKAGE 425
at home and grumble at hard times. This same public will
not, as grand juries, indict political criminals, or will not con-
vict them when indicted. This same public is a wheedling,
growling, complaining fault-finder, and when the tools are
given it for its own remedy, it wiU not sharpen them. Civiliza-
tion, therefore, is indicted as a failure in its smart classes that,
like the Japanese, are educated to believe that ability is given
man to use in graft and robbery of the rights and property
of the masses ; and it is a failure in its weak classes—the toilers
—because they, with the remedy close at hand, go on grumbling
and refusing to amend the constitution and punish the political
scoundrels who rule them, and give their rights to the great
corporations and trusts.
16. These things being true, the most expected traits that
will crop out in man or wife are dishonesty and selfishness.
This is an age now of universal selfishness and almost universal
dishonesty. Even in the churches the preachers are dishonest,
and they know it ;
for, if they were honest, they would know
that they are not qualified for the work of saving the world.
In church membership, no matter how steadfast men and
women may be in their attendance at devotion, they are
mostly dishonest. The outside lives of men in business and
work, and the home fives of women, tell their great insincerity
as members of the church, and they themselves know these
things better than they want to. We are not called upon to
prove these assertions, as the accused plead guilty. A woman
has said in a report : "My husband and I are members of the
church in our city. He says he cannot be honest in his business,
and I know I am not honest in my private home life. But
we are both desirous of becoming better. What can be done ?
"
These two persons were both regarded as the very souls
of honour, and their words were taken as always straight-
forward, and to be depended upon. But they simply know
themselves. This trait of insincerity must be always kept in
mind by the wife who studies her husband, and by the husband
who studies the wife. Allowances must be made for heredity,
for, if civilization is under indictment to-day as a failure,
it cannot produce men and women who are honest. No
husband can be perfectly honest with his wife who inherits
the taint that is universal—the taint of graft and corruption.
426 SEX MAGNETISM
If he will not indict political scoundrels or convict them
when on trial, or if he will not take part in amending the
constitution which makes the courts mere barriers of tech-
nicalities through which the rich and powerful can slip with
perfect ease, he surely cannot come into his home and live
an honest life with his wife. She must, therefore, know that
he is not honest with her in all things, yet for policy sake he
may be sincere in things that she may find out.
17. For this reason the greatest demand on the wife is that
she plan her ways and life so as to keep her husband as near
to her at all times as possible. For his sake she should know
where he is always. This knowledge has kept many dishonest
men straight. When the wife does not know where he spends
his evenings or his spare time by day, she is remiss in her duty
to him and to herself, for, as habit-crimes are curable, so his
dishonesty may be cured. And as habit-crimes, when left to
themselves, run to worse conditions, so his freedom to go and
come at will is sure to lead to errors that may be great enough
to bar forgiveness.
18. On the same principle the woman who wants to spend
her evenings out with a lady friend should take her husband
with her. The lady friend is too often a curable prostitute,
so cleverly heralded as to divert all suspicion. Two women
together in the evenings can hatch all sorts of mischief.
19. The husband makes a mistake to allow his wife to go
alone too much to her parents' home. Those parents are hers,
and he is not their son. He took her from them. They see
him, not through the eyes of the daughter who is his wife,
but through the eyes of the parents who have been deprived
of a supposedly lovely daughter. All persons are more or less
dishonest, and all are wholly selfish. Suspicions of others are
born in the inherited dishonesty that is in the blood ; and it is
a sure thing that the least flaw in the habits or character of
the husband will arouse the suspicions of the wife's relatives.
This has been going on for sixty centuries in the world, and
you will not change it in your life. It is human and, there-
fore, fixed. The remedy is to call with your wife, and keep
her at home as much as possible. Confidences of mother and
daughter always poison the daughter's mind against her
husband ; sometimes not much, for the mothers are shrewd at
WRECKAGE 427
times and breathe gently the vague hints they dare not face
if made openly.
20. The same is true of the husband taking too much
advice from his relatives as to the manner in which he should
deal with his wife.
21. The best thing for the wife to do is to honour her
parents in every way, and steel her mind and heart against their
subtle influences. The best thing for the husband to do is to
honour his parents in every way and cling to his wife.
22. Husband and wife belong to each other, and should be
left alone. It is the beginning of the end when her parents,
or one of them, will come to live as a part of the household ;
or his parents will do the same ; for the contradiction of
interest will be seen very soon, and the counter-influences will
eat all the romance out of the young lives. Husband and wife
belong to each other. They are human. They inherit both
kinds of characters—the devil and the angel. They have much
to discover in each other, and much to cause disappointment in
their choices. They have a fearful struggle to endure each other,
even under favourable conditions. To add to their heritage
of bad tendencies when aroused, and to their bitter battles to
keep the bond of marriage from snapping asunder—to add the
presence and the failings of old folks—is more than poor human
nature can stand ;
and, in this age of greater freedom, they
WILL NOT STAND IT. It is not a question of supporting the
parents, for, goodness knows, the husband has all he can do to
keep body and soul together in his own family ;
but it is the
question of cross-interests, of the wife's relatives touching the
devil-spring in the husband's nature, and of his relatives touch-
ing the devil-spring in her nature, and then off they go. The
saturated minds of the old folks see everything wrong in the
other party, and nothing that is good. No modern marriage
will long endure this torment.
23. Whatever else you do, leave out the relatives from the
home until the home has been built on a rock. Let them visit,
and together visit them. Be cordial and keep up the best of
feelings ; but leave the relatives out of the struggling period
of matrimony.
24. When the home is well-established, as after fifteen years
of married life, then husband and wife may take in such of
428 SEX MAGNETISM
their relatives as both are willing to have come, but the
willingness must be voluntary and gracious, not niggardly
and cool.
25. When relatives do come into the home-life of a married
couple the latter should have a frank, heart-to-heart talk, and
should let it be understood that the little hints, subtle influ-
ences and brief suggestions of such relatives grind like sand
against the feelings of one or the other, and lead to lack of
confidence in each other. There have been husbands who have
been true to their wives for half a lifetime, and who have been
held in perfect confidence by them, whose reputations have
been undermined by some suspicious relative of the wife who
has come into the family to live ; and there are wives whose
neatness and good habits have been highly esteemed by their
husbands, who have lost their reputations in the eyes of their
husbands by discoveries made by his relatives who have come
to their home to live. Old men and women are acute in their
suspicions and faulty in their senses. Old women have many
times reported remarks and occurrences to husband or wife
against the other party, when there was not the slightest
ground for the statements. Each, rather than have trouble
in the family, has borne the false belief in silence. Thus,
when the mother of a wife told the latter that she had heard
the husband say his " wife was not as good as she should be,"
the wife, offended to the quick, but not wanting to make
trouble in the family, had her cry to herself day after day, and
bore the accusation in patience, until she found out from the
minister, to whom the husband had made the statement, that
he had said his " life was not as good as it should be, for he let
much of it go to waste in idle reading." Through the failing and
faulty senses of old people they are continually getting things
wrong ;
and this, added to their naturally acute suspicions,
makes them very treacherous in the home of the younger
people, although the old folks may really be good souls, and
have not the slightest desire to make trouble. But they make
it just the same, and it is as good doctrine now as when the
Bible laid down the law that man and wife should leave parents
and cling to each other.
26. If asked what is the greatest danger to the peace of
matrimony, the answer may always be this : The ease with
WRECKAGE 429
which the wrong spring may be touched in the nature of the
husband or the wife. Why ?
Because :
(a) A man is a mixed devil and saint.
(6) A woman is a mixed she-devil and angel.
Any woman knows that unless she keeps her husband hen-
pecked and hypnotized all the time she can touch the right
spring, and get a good disposition in streams that are checked
only by indigestion ; or she can touch a wrong spring, and get
the very " Old Nick " out of him. Policy may tempt him to
suppress his nature, as where the whipping-post stares him in
the face ; but if he does suppress his evil disposition, the wife
has gained nothing by touching that spring.
She knows, if she has any sense left, that she can get only
torment and abuse, or neglect and suffering, by touching that
wrong spring. Yet she likes to do it. The love of scrapping
is so strong in some women that they insist on getting their
husbands irritable so they can hear and exchange opinions
and vituperation. " When I want to know what Bill thinks
of me I start him, and he gets mad right away. Then I let
him know just how mean I think he is," says a woman, and
she accomplishes all she starts out to do.
Any man knows, if he has any sense at all, that he can touch
the wrong spring in his wife's nature, and get either tears and
a headache, or set her to scolding in streams of eloquence.
27. What is the use ? What difference will it make a
hundred years from now ? The man is not to blame for having
the devil-nature, any more than the cat is to blame for eating
the bird ; nor is the woman to blame for her disposition. These
are hereditary. If they are incurable, find it out before marriage
and drop the engagement. If you have money, it is cheaper
to pay damages than the cost of after-litigation and the penalty
of a wrecked home. How many homes are safe to-day ? Not
five in a hundred, for freedom is growing fast, and the great
public will soon redistribute itself through the divorce courts
unless a remedy can be found, and that very soon.
28. Remember that the devil-side of character is inherited,
and cannot be blamed on the possessor of it. You have it, and
we all have it. How you hate to be stirred up or agitated by
the fretting remark of your consort ! Then do not do it to her
430 SEX MAGNETISM
or him. Never touch that wrong spring. It leads to all the
bad blood in wedlock. It has been said that it takes two to
make a quarrel ; but it is cowardly to fight with a person who
will not fight back, and you ought to be ashamed to pick a
quarrel with one who seeks a gentle life ;
peace on earth, good-
will to men.
29. It takes but one to touch the wrong spring. If your
husband starts the day wrong, it is due to lack of digestion,
or to the exhaustion of his vitality. He himself or his stomach
has touched the wrong spring. Keep out of his way. Do not
look pleasant, for he will think you are laughing at him. Just
keep out of the way. It may irritate him to offer to find his
collar stud for him, as he will look upon you as a natural
enemy until that indigestion has gone off.
30. Study repression of your character. A husband does
not like a gushing wife, nor one too free with her favours.
Do not deny him, and do not throw them at him. Let him
seek and find.
31. Study the science of food selection and new ways of
cooking. If you make things as mother used to make them,
cut them off the diet, and start making things as mother
would have made them had she been born with native sense
and judgment sufficient to know that the health of the body
and nervous system may be ruined by bad foods and bad
cooking, and that ninety per cent of the failures of marriage
are due directly to indigestion, caused by the lack of wisdom
on the part of the wife.
32. The husband should pay his wife constant attention.
He does not care for her gushing, and he should simply be allowed
to help himself to her as he may wish ; but he, on the other
hand, must remember that she wants his attentions, his kisses,
if he does not smoke or chew tobacco ; his embraces if he is
neat and clean-smelling ; otherwise his distant affiliation. Of
course, it would be better for him to eschew tobacco in every
form, and to take a frequent bath, and keep his face and hands
clean, refinements which, it must be said with sorrow, are sadly
lacking in married men. But, nevertheless, it is a law as old
as the fundamental truths of the race that no woman will
long be content without kisses and embraces. If she cannot
get them where they should be forthcoming, she will wish
WRECKAGE 431
for them elsewhere ; and wishing is the progenitor of infidelity
to the marriage vows.
Learn this fact ere it is too late.
33. If you are a husband do not repose in the belief that
your wife is dependent on you and your support, and, there-
fore, deny to her the refinements and the attentions that she
craves. Do not vent your bad temper on her. Do not crowd
her life into narrow limits by your selfishness, or by your thought-
lessness, which is the same as selfishness. She is not as de-
pendent as she thinks she is. She may tell you, and she may
believe at the time she says it, that she is dependent on you,
and if you should leave her or die, she would not know what to
do. But she will soon undeceive herself when the time comes
that she can no longer endure your boorishness and inatten-
tions, or your selfishness and narrow treatment of her. The
spirit of domestic liberty is in the air, and she will inhale it
sooner than you would believe. Children hold some wives to
husbands who are too mean to live with ; but the history
that is making itself every day in this age is witnessing the
annual exodus of thousands of wives from their homes, despite
the fact that they have children. The wife who kills her
children and herself has her husband marked for life as the
guilty party. In most cases he is to blame. It is an awful
remorse to take to the grave. Better turn over the new leaf
now. You may think your wife is not the one who would do
such a thing ; but minds give way suddenly when they are
compelled, as many wives are in this country, to live with men
who are selfish, boorish, lacking in that kindness that they
promised in courtship, and stayers away from home, where
they are needed to help bear the burdens of work. You who
drink to excess may all too soon be made fatherless and a
widower by the hand of an insane woman, whose love you are
now trailing in the dust of life.
34. If you are a married woman, do not repose in the belief
that your husband does not dare to leave you, for fear the
courts would have him punished for neglect of his home and
family. The courts have control within certain lines, not
beyond, and the husband who steps over the fine may greet
the court with a good-morning salute and laugh in its face.
Your safety is in adopting the teachings of this book, and
432 SEX MAGNETISM
raising yourself to a higher level in life, and to that level he
will be drawn if you have magnetism.
35. Every wife can make herself a better woman, and she
can in time draw to herself the husband who is curable of
his faults and unrefinements. The better way is to induce the
husband to study this book with you. Do not be afraid that
he will think you are exposing him, for he will not take seriously
any charge herein made. He really does not know how he
looks in the eyes of those who know him best. But if he has
any true manhood about him, he will ask you to write down
each day a fault for him to correct. You can tell him it is a
very small fault, almost too insignificant to mention ; but as
he asked for it you feel compelled to write it down. Then make
it in strong letters, bold enough to enter his head. He would
be a man of a very low grade of intelligence who could not
read his needs in that gentle list.
36. Most women lack sensible value and practical judgment.
They can make themselves of value by mastering the greatest
of all problems in the home, and that is the laws of food selec-
tion and of cookery. Sickness and ill-temper both come from
the neglect of this duty, and what is worse in a home than
sickness and bad temper. The wife who is to hold the greatest
power in the future is the one who will learn how to combine
palatability and health in the diet. To-day a palatable diet
is decidedly unwholesome, and a wholesome diet is decidedly
unpalatable. If woman wants to prove to the world that she
is intelligent and civilized, she must master this problem. It is
in her domain, not man's. Yet man, for his protection, acting
under the rule that self-preservation is the first law of nature,
is forced to study this problem himself, and to compel woman
to adopt it. On the other hand, she is pretending that she is
making progress in the same direction by her domestic science
schools.
37. What is a domestic science school ? Let us take the
facts : Any woman, by witnessing the cooking done by a
teacher for a certain number of weeks, and then braiding some
hats, is given a diploma as a domestic science teacher, and
she is then a candidate to become such a teacher. We know
what we are saying, for the reason that we have purposely
had some of our lady friends take the most thorough courses
WRECKAGE 433
in domestic science, and receive their diplomas or certificates.
But there are some skilled teachers in domestic science who
are skilled cooks. What do they cook ? The height of then-
art, represented by tables full of food all ready to eat, has
been preserved in photographs, and contain a collection of
the very things that ruin the stomach, bring on sickness, add
to irritabihty, and end in misery from all points of view. The
foods are palatable, but not safe. There will never come a
time when pastry, cake and fried foods will be safe for the
human stomach, for the reason that the stomach cannot
digest them, and will set up virulent poisons when nature
tries to throw them off. What is needed is domestic science
with an entirely new science. There is but one problem to
be solved, and it is this :
(a) How to get palatability without indigestion.
(b) How to get wholesomeness with palatability.
Domestic science does not solve this problem, nor has it
solved one iota of it. There has not been the slightest attempt
to solve it. It is, as one of its chief critics has said, " a moun-
tain of indigestible cookery."
38. In the wide world there is the hope of some person
here and there to rise up above the heads of the throng, and
become great by reason of a mighty achievement. Men reach
fame through war, or in statesmanship or the professions.
To women the doors of high attainment are closed, or have
been in the past. But now an opening is found for the first
time since women were made free. That woman who will
show the way to provide food that is nourishing, wholly free
from indigestibility in a normal stomach, and at the same
time palatable, will be the greatest personage on the stage
of modern history, and her name will go down to succeeding
generations as the bright particular star of this era, if not of
all eras.
Why?
Because the human body is made up of what is eaten, and
the brain, nerves, mind and all that are dependent on the
material that enters the body. Therefore, what we eat makes
us what we are . If sin is to be punished, and irritability, temper,
crime and the results of an uncontrollable ill-nature are charged
against people as sins, then the present-day diet, being the
28
434 SEX MAGNETISM
cause of these erratic conditions, must bring the blame home
to women who refuse to reform the diet.
39. It has been said that man is lacking in many little
refinements and attentions that wives crave. On the other
hand, woman is lacking in stamina. She may be active in
body, but she is lazy in mind. If she were alive and strong in
her mind, rather than in her talking powers, she would take
up this problem of making wholesome foods palatable. But
she contents herself with new bread, hot rolls, muffins, cakes,
pastry, ice creams, fancy dishes, and all that train of barbarous
products for furnishing her the power to attract the attention
and appetite of her husband. He may praise the food while
it is passing down his throat, for the most indigestible food
is the most palatable ; when it gets to his stomach, and
there sets up its ferment and its poisons, the wife is horrified
to see how touchy he is, and she climbs behind a sofa pillow
with the exclamation that he does not love her as much
as he did, and she is not going to slave any more to please
him.
Where is the mental power in that woman ? She is the
type of the great army of brides that are stepping into the
vortex of trouble.
40. Brides who are past twenty-five years of age, and
especially those who are in the thirties, as a rule know how
to cook much better than the young ones ; but they need
just the reform that is mentioned herein. The world must
have, and the man awake is going to have, wholesome food
properly cooked and palatable.
41. If wives could hear themselves talk they would wonder
what man could think them mentally attractive as a rule. It
is better to speak to yourself the things you are to speak
aloud ; listen well and absorb what you have said ; then ask
yourself if it sounds like the emanations of a good mind to
say those things to your husband. Let it be your ambition
to be sensible, and let him know you are sensible. A wise
woman has a great hold on the heart of her husband ; whereas
a shallow woman is regarded by him as a toy if she is good-
natured, or as a termagant if she is a hereditary scold.
42. If you are unmarried, hold the engagement off until
you have ascertained what is the temperament of the other
WRECKAGE 435
party. You can learn all about it by following the teachings
of this book.
43. If you are married and cannot agree, do not separate.
Go on to the principles taught herein, and find out the cause
of the trouble. It may be that you have been touching the
wrong spring all the time in the nature of your consort, or
that your consort has been touching the wrong spring in your
nature ; but there may be a remedy. Just as sure as you two
once saw something in each other to like, just so sure is there
something still left of the likeable, if not lovable. You have not
been revolutionized by marriage, nor has your consort. When
you thought each other the best in the world, you had the
same devil-nature that you both have now, but you did not
touch the wrong springs then, as now.
44. The easiest people to learn to hate each other are rela-
tives of the same blood. An enormous percentage of people
who are sisters and sisters, or brothers and brothers, or brothers
and sisters, or parents and children, especially parents and
sons, are estranged, and would sooner leave their property in
case of death to any freak than to each other. This hatred
is due to the closeness of their relationship. They know each
other ;
and, as the relationship permits the utmost freedom of
knowledge, they set up friction of feelings very easily, and this
touches the wrong spring. Next to blood relations, the easiest
people in all the world to learn to hate each other are husband
and wife. The difference is, however, marked in the intensity
of the hatred, for husbands and wives reach the utmost confines
of diabolical malignity when they are thoroughly aroused. The
courtship that was smooth in large degree, and that weathered
the gales of misunderstandings, coming into the port of marriage
with sails flying and banner at the masthead, is wrecked on so
small a rock as a bit of temper that friends would forgive or
not even notice. But married folks in their first months of
wedlock are supersensitive, and then fall apart, or else settle
down to a steadfast warfare that has its intervals of peace and
quietude while the campfires are shining in the background.
It is a life of endurance for a while. Then when the time
comes for the great battle there is no malice so black as that
which drives these one-time lovers into court.
45. It is supposed that the mutual hatred is incurable.
436 SEX MAGNETISM
Let us see.
The devil has been seen, and is out, and each thinks that no
amount of veneering in the shape of promises or good nature
will house his majesty again. " I have seen just what my
husband is, and I can never think of him again as anything
better than he is," says the wife. The husband says :
" My
wife is a tigress, all claws, and a she-devil combined. If we
make up and live together again, I can never think of her
as anything different from what she is." Many men and
women live together in marriage for the sake of the children, all
the time entertaining these regards for each other. Now, let us
look at the facts as they are. That man had just the same
nature in him that he has now, and he is no worse than millions
of men who are married, some of whom are models of noble char-
acter. That woman had the same nature when she was being
courted that she has now. She might have been the sweetest
angel in all the wide world if the right spring had been touched
all the time. All lovers in their halcyon days are just as much
possessed of the evil nature as they are afterwards ; and it is a
true, if an old saying, that it takes marriage to bring out the
devil in both man and woman. But it comes from touching the
wrong spring. It is better to get together and understand this
fact. The husband has a good defence, in that he was born
with no more bad in him than the average man, and that any
other man would be just as bad in disposition if he had his
wrong spring sprung on him all the time. The wife has the
same good defence. Just human, that is all. When they once
understand the cause of it all, and are convinced that all men
and women have the bad in them, they can bring about peace ;
and, being married, they should change the methods of fighting ;
let them battle against their deficiencies. It is worth while.
Breaking homes and wrecking fives must cease. Civilization
cannot stand any more of this breach of her best purposes.
46. Do you know that there are millions of wives to-day that
are like little fleas—all the time biting at the temper of their
husbands ? Others nag and nag. Then still others scold out
loud. The great cause is the hasty marriage. Of all the wed-
dings that have occurred after the parties, or one of them, had
passed the age of twenty-five years, and had been in love for
three or four years before, not one in fifty has been the stepping
WRECKAGE 437
stone to trouble. It is the pretty girl or the handsome man that
walks into an ill-assorted union. The lesson to be learned is that
a long courtship is necessary. The lovers do not think so, and
can never be made to believe it, for they assert they are to
become exceptions to the general rule of mismating. But they
soon join the grand sea-wash of wrecked mariners, all too late
to be saved. Deliberation and delay are necessary.
47. Find out the temperament of the other party before
marriage ; and this can be done in every case by the methods
already stated in this book. If you are balked in your effort
to do so, give yourself the benefit of the doubt. In a criminal
case the defendant is given the benefit of every doubt that is
reasonable ; but in an anticipated marriage the rule should be
stricter. You will be the criminal if you endanger the happi-
ness of two lives, and possibly of children, as well as the happi-
ness of relatives by a mismated union. In nearly every phase
of life the motto, " Be sure you're right, then go ahead,"
applies ; but what can more need this motto than marriage ?
And what gets its benefit less than marriage ? It seems strange
that in business transactions people wish to be sure they are
right before they go ahead, and yet in matrimony they wish to
go ahead in order to see if they are right, like the man who
jumped into a basket of eggs to see if they were real.
48. In courtship that woman is wisest who holds back the
goal to the man. In football when the goal is scored that part
of the play is ended. In courtship when consent is won the goal
is made and that part of the play is over. What does she gain
by giving consent ? She thinks she has secured him from other
women, but what is the use of securing a man who, in ninety
chances out of a hundred, will be unworthy of having ? Let the
other girls have him, if he is that fickle. But if he loves you and
you do not teU him that you love him, you are doing him the
greatest service that one human being can bestow on another.
You are keeping him at his best. You think that perhaps your
charms will fade in a long courtship, but they will not fade
then to such an extent as they will after marriage ;
and they
will rather increase before matrimony if you follow the practice
of magnetism, for this art keeps the eyes growing brighter
all the time, and the features more beautiful. A beauty that
is more attractive than complexion or velvety skin will be yours.
438 SEX MAGNETISM
You will have a better man if you test his power of remaining
steadfast, if you keep him on his good behaviour, and if you do
not reach the goal.
49. It is not good for man to be alone. He should have a
woman. If he is married, that woman should be his wife.
She should be made to understand that he regards her as the
greatest of all persons in the world. He should so regard her,
and she should know it. If he cannot look upon her as the
most important individual living, as far as he is concerned,
he should school himself to learn to so estimate her. This is
his duty to her and to himself. She may not be worthy of such
opinion, but that makes no difference. If, when he married
her, he so valued her, it will be easy for him to learn to do so
again ; and if he did not so value her, then he has a greater
task to perform. It is not very hard for a magnetic man to
re -learn to love his wife.
50. If the man has no wife, and cannot get one, then he
should have some woman in his life. His mother, his sister,
his daughter may, perhaps, fill the void ; or he may form the
acquaintance in a general way with the sex at large, and be
cordial and social with them. But he should submit himself
to the refining influences of woman somewhere and somehow.
He should be lifted up to the standard that requires him to be
attractive to an excellent woman of high tastes and select mind.
51. It is not good for woman to be alone. She should regard
her husband as the greatest man in the world ; and if she knows
he is the smallest, she should set about making herself believe
more in him, and he will in time respond.
£
'
My husband ? He ?
Make him think I believe he knows anything ? Well, well, of
all things, I should say I have not gone daft yet. Why, he
doesn't know enough to come in out of the rain," was the send-
off a wife gave her husband some years ago. The man looked
all the woman said. But as an experiment we induced her to
gradually pretend to respect his judgment, to ask his opinion
from time to time, and to generally expand his opinion of him-
self. She then asked him what he knew about certain matters.
When she wanted to find out how to spell a word, she asked
him, just to set him looking into the spelling book and diction-
ary. Then, later on, she asked him about grammar, and about
adding and subtracting, and fractions, and led him to take an
WRECKAGE 439
interest in studies. In four years she had a man whom she really
respected.
52. Every woman should have a man. If she has no
husband let her cling to her father, son or brother. If these
are lacking, let her entertain in a social way, and have men
and women call to see her, and call upon men and women.
It is not good for women to see only women, for they soon
become gossips.
53. Every woman by magnetism, as taught in this work,
can in time secure complete control over her husband.
54. Every man by magnetism, as taught in this work, can
in time secure complete control over his wife.
55. This kind of control is not hypnotism, but is exactly
its opposite. The control is willingly given even by magnetic
persons ; and the result, if both are magnetic, is that both will
seek to yield subjection to the other. There has never been a
great man who has not gloried in the fact that his wife could
lead him like a little child. Yet she obeyed his slightest, as
well as his greatest wish.
56. This book shows the nature of woman to man in know-
ledge that he can never find elsewhere.
57. It shows to woman the nature of man in facts that
cannot be obtained from any other source.
58. It lets each sex know all about the other sex, and is
absolutely sure to discover temperamental unfitness.
59. What every woman ought to know about a man has
been disclosed here and laid bare.
60. What every man ought to know about a woman has like-
wise been made clear.
61. Man places too low an estimate on woman.
62. Under the influence of this training course, if pursued
diligently and faithfully to the end, and mastered thoroughly
by repetition until every law and doctrine has been absorbed
and brought into the pulsing life of the student, Sex Magnetism
will lead the way to the grandest existence which is possible
on earth. It is not difficult. It is practical. It is worth while.
MAGNETIC PASSION
FROM the cradle to the grave ; from the hours of child-
hood's prattle to that sweet companionship of the aged
couple sitting with clasped hands and looking out upon the
autumn sun just dropping behind the grey hills ; from the years
of hope and progress to that last footfall on the threshold ; from
the planning that looked forward through the unopened years
to the closed book now shut for ever ; from the farewells of
young hearts going out into the thick of the fray to the bene-
dictions of ripened age ; from the gaieties and fancies of the
bright hours that have been frequent visitors in the past, down
to that last walk in the rose garden which will see the aged form
no more ; from all the up-reaching years of life's best work
to the final days of rest ; from first to last ; from the cradle to
the grave, life makes its span and is done.
When a young man falls in love with a young woman ;
when two persons stand face to face with the possibility of a
union of fives ; when home ties are about to be broken that have
held the family together, and new associations are sought ;
when the all-important step is to be taken that shall bring man
and woman into a new companionship, let them stop and
ponder over the final picture as they would like to have it set in
the framework of life.
In the time of sowing the harvest may be chosen.
Who is there that will go forth into the field and sow blindly,
not knowing the seed and the soil ? The simple rule of nature
is as true in human life as in the cultivated land.
Victory at every endeavour comes to that person who will
study the end of the span at the beginning ;
for, between the
first step and the last in every history, there is the long
road and the dangers to be passed. He is wise who, before
entering wedlock, will seek definite knowledge of its final
consummation.
From the age of impetuous blindness in matters of love, out
440
MAGNETIC PASSION 441
into the better age of wisdom is not a long step ;
all that is
needed is the mainspring of good sense and a masterly will-
power to resist the two demands ; one for support, and the
other for animal mating. The woman of all time has been too
eager to win a husband who will support her ;
and the man
has been too eager to own and possess a mate. These two
demands have led the sexes on, blindly defying all laws of judg-
ment and every maxim of business and sound principle ;
for
nothing else in this world is so fearfully sacrificed to unreckon-
ing haste as matrimony.
So urgent is the desire of youth that all other considerations
must give way. It is useless to say, wait a few years. They
do not want to wait, and they will not wait. But the young
men and the young women who are out of their teens should
adopt a few simple rules :
1 . Make love stand aside for a few years. It is not necessary
to kill it, or to immure it, but let it stand without. If love
is all that you are to depend upon for the stability of marriage,
you will fail in short order and end ingloriously.
2. Learn the fitness of your chosen companion ;
and learn it
before marriage. If there is one moment of hesitation during
the prior acquaintance, or during courtship, no matter how
slight it may be, let it be accepted as a mountainous obstacle.
That brief hesitation or doubt tells the story of disaster to
come. Learn the lesson in time.
3. Be deliberate. Do not be afraid of losing the one you
want. If there is any danger of an escape from the alliance
before marriage, accept it as a blessing in disguise ;
for if the
bond of interest is held so lightly then, it will break quickly
afterwards. Give the other party aU opportunity for release.
Favour the release, rather than insist on the betrothal. Every
encouragement that is given to the possibility of the two lives
falling apart is an advantage. Help it along.
4 Proceed on the theory that nineteen unions m every
twenty are ill-mated, and that you are in the nineteen. Do
not believe that you are the one in the score that will succeed.
If you are reaUy intended for each other, you will find it out
better by delay than by blind haste ;
and you should quietly
make up your mind to ascertain the truth before a decisive
step is taken.
442 SEX MAGNETISM
5. When you have found the one person in all the world
that is designed to be your life-companion, then cultivate
THE RED FIRE OF MAGNETIC PASSION
This is the genuine attainment of heaven on earth.
Let us look at it in a practical manner, laying aside all
attempts at building the ideal in place of the real.
In the first place, it is a matter of certainty that you can
find the one person in all this world who is perfectly adapted
to you. It will take time and care, as well as the application
of the rules and tests laid down in this course of training. But
you may avoid all mistakes.
In the second place, assuming that you have found the
perfect counterpart for your life, begin to build the plans for
a long future with that one person. Make up your mind,
no matter how great and how grand some others are in this
world, that one individual is the greatest and the grandest
of all. Think this, believe it, and so act. Let every thought
and every deed of your existence centre around that one
person. It is worth while a thousand times over.
You may have countless other interests, but let none be
so great.
In the third place, outline a long voyage through this life,
and see in contemplation the final years as they roll on the
last history you will participate in on this earth. Make up
your mind what that history shall be. The most magnifi-
cent law of human existence is this :
Whatever you make up your mind to accomplish, that will
come to pass.
It has been stated that what you think will be ; but think-
ing is one process and a fixed determination, such as is taught
in universal magnetism, is another. In other words, as applied
to this work, you may and you will build that future which
you set about achieving with a fixed determination to attain.
The man or woman with a magnetic goal ahead is the one
greatest power in life. Most people are adrift on an unknown
stream, and they have no port to which they sail. They are
brushed aside. Look out for the person with a definite and
determined purpose. Discouragement and failure will come,
MAGNETIC PASSION 443
but they will always be stepping stones to further progress ;
for that is the method of success.
Here you are now, we will say, with a chosen companion
whom you have selected out of a score of others ;
and your
choice is perfect. This is the starting-point. Next you have
your plans for the whole future ;
and, third, you are magnetic
enough to know how to make up your mind to accomplish what
you will in the world. You now have become an irresistible
force in the moving masses of humanity. Let all others stand
aside.
In that beautiful future that shall shine for you on this
earth, your chosen companion is the central figure and the
leading power. Homage and worship, exaltation and adora-
tion are for that one alone, of all those who dwell on this globe.
Fit yourself for such an existence. It is not ideal, except
that it is best ; but it is real in that it is possible and is being
to-day accomplished in many lives. You may at first thought
believe that no human being is good enough for your best
regard and best care ; but stop here a moment and look at
the picture that is being enacted in thousands of homes at
this very minute.
She is a beautiful maiden. The flush of the rose is on her
cheek, and the diamonds glitter in her eyes. Apparelled like
a princess, she receives the attentions of a gallant young
gentleman who looks like a royal scion of a noble line. But
they are just plain people taken out of the hurry of life and
made as attractive for each other as care and interest will
permit. They are meeting now for the first time after there
has been some faint encouragement to the suit. He is all
doubt and aU wonderment. She is timid and fluttering like
a bird let loose for the trial flight. As he gazes upon her,
there comes over him the feeling that nothing so divine ever
trod this earth before, and she thinks of the grand heroes
of her books that were so different from other lovers that only
the elect of heaven could be good enough for their attentions.
Nature is at work. This is her magnetic spell.
You say it is not real, for it all vanishes. But it is real, and
is being lived in the first meetings of lovers at this time wher-
ever civilization holds sway ; and it has been lived countless
millions of times in the past. You cannot say a thing is not
444 SEX MAGNETISM
real that has been the one uniform history of every life. The
fact is, nature gives a brief touch of the red fire of passion, and
then she lets things take their own course, on the principle
that all streams will settle to the level of their fountain heads.
It is to realize that level that this work has been written.
There and there alone is the whole secret.
You can see for yourself that your chosen companion can
be no greater in your estimation than your own regard and
opinion decide. If you are to consider yourself first, then the
plan will fail. The other party must always be first, and you
must always be second ; and it is more than likely that in
the eyes of that individual you will be first and the other
party will be second ; so there will be two firsts. This is the
way it should be ; for it is the way nature sets up the standard
in those glowing hours of the first feelings of love.
How feeble and how futile are all attempts to assume a
charm that is not real
The woman dresses the best she can, in the hope that
dresses will prove a charm. She does her hair with great
thought and much attention, looking a thousand times in the
mirror to see if her face is framed in attractive beauty. She
has been known to brighten her eyes with belladonna to give
them the brightness that comes naturally only through mag-
netism. She carefully " makes up," never dreaming that
magnetism paints better and more enduringly. Now, as she
comes into his presence, she is all life, all vivacity, all blushes,
all afire with charms that burst forth in every word and every
expression of the face. Her smile is most fascinating. Her
voice trembles with the slightest fever of the heart, and is
full of the best quality that life has given it, while her words
are well chosen, and his every remark is the basis of her zeal
and solicitude. She is trying to be charming. Much of it
sincere, but it becomes artifice as her experiences grow.
He is just as eager to seem pleasing.
He is on his best manners ; better than she will ever see
after marriage. He is attired to the full limit of his purse,
in most cases, and his words and manly utterances are attempts
of nature to hold him up to the highest possible standard.
All this has been done more million times than you can
count.
MAGNETIC PASSION 445
You say it is not deception. Of course it is not deception ;
but if it were, as it seems to be in some cases, it still remains
the fruit of natural impulse. Have women ever tried to look
better and be better than they really are, when they have
sought to win the good opinions of men ? Yes, millions of
times. Women always do that thing. But why ? On what
principle will they seek to be sweeter and more pleasing in
the first meetings with their prospective lovers than they would
be in the presence of their own mothers whom they cherish ?
If women assume charms they do not in fact possess, why do
they do so ?
Even the deceits that men and women practise on each
other to make themselves more pleasing, are part of the same
plan of nature. There would be no sex calling if there were
no demand for it.
Take this lesson into your life. Study this chapter of
the present training course, and master it in every detail.
Take time to do so, and do not hurry. Then make your lists
of commonplaces and of margins. Having laid the foundation
well, and proceeding with a determination to win, you will
one by one drop all the commonplaces from your life ;
and,
as you do so, you will enter step by step into Charmland ;
until, when all the dregs of existence are drained off, there
will run the clear fluid of a new magnetism. On this build
the many magnetic margins that have been taught ;
and you
will be filled with
THE RED FIRE OF PASSION
It is the nobleness of manhood, the truth of manhood, the
upright honour of manhood, coupled with the sweetness, the
purity and the lovableness of womanhood. May you and
" yours " start at once making preparations for the great
journey, and may you both enter into the full glory and the
alluring delights of
CHARMLAND
PRINTED BY
MORRISON AND GIBB, LTD.
LONDON AND EDINBURGH.
HOW TO LIVE
A HEALTHY LIFE
A COMMON-SENSE TREATISE ON DIET
This book is written for the man or woman who
is now sick and to whom it will bring health
and freedom from illness. To those who are
now well it offers continual protection against
the dangers of illness. To everybody it teaches
the natural methods of correct diet.
PARTIAL CONTENTS
THE FUNCTIONS OF THE DUCTLESS GLANDS
VITAMINS
PRESERVING YOUTH
CAUSE AND CURE OF CONSTIPATION
VITAMIN SOURCES
THE IMPORTANCE OF MINERAL FOODS
HOW MUCH TO EAT
HOW TO CURE EXCESS FAT
HOW TO PUT ON WEIGHT
WARDING OFF OLD AGE
NATURAL FOODS
MENUS
AMAZING NEW HEALTH DISCOVERIES
Wonderful Book Reveals
Nature's Way To Well-Being
READ IT FOR THREE DAYS FREE-SENT ON APPROVAL
Write for full details to :
PSYCHOLOGY PUBLISHING COMPANY LTD.
(Dept. SM), 3, 5 & 12 QUEEN STREET, MANCHESTER, 2
