{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__rishi___spiritualism_in_india.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritualism In India","mylang":"de"}
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA
THEORY AND PRACTICE
( Being a collection: of articles on the subject and
a summary of experiences in India and abroad
during the last eight years )'■■■■.
By
V. D
. RISHI,
B. A. LL. B.
Author of “ Subhadra- or Life after Death ”
I ■
First Edition
1 9 3 6 «
,
P r ic e R s . 2 /-
PisWished h
ij: —
Y. D. RISHÎ,
■forthe-Indian Spiritualist Society,
51, G-otdhaudas Building,
G-irgaon, Bombay»
w
*’ Life on earth can have no higher aspiration than to
demonstrate the transcendental nature of man’s being.”
Count Aksakaof.
Printed bf ::— ■
. K. K. SAPLEv ' '
at Ms Bamkrishna Printing Press,
1547, Tribhuvan Road,
- . .Bombay'Ho.4-
FOREW ORD
‘ Spiritualism .in,, India' is the second'publication of Mr.
V* D. Rishi. It is a summary of his' activities, .and experi­
ences in ;India -'and .Europe during the last eight years, and
is being issued for the benefit of those interested in Spiritual­
ism, Miv, Rishi’s-claim to enlighten' the Indian public in
this important matter,is now based on nearly fifteen years of
close study, constant thinking, extensive travel and prolonged
research. In fact it can be truly said of him that he is the
only authority in India on this branch of knowledge, and
I can sincerely say of Mr. Rishi what the late Sir A. Conan
Doyle once wrote to him to say u You are the Apostle of
Spiritualism and we all look upon you as the representative of
the cause in India.” .
Few people take real interest in this science; the reasons
are -obvious. There is so much imposture and fraud going
on about us in the name of religion and spirituality that a
little scepticism is all to the good. At the same time it will-
foe'really, unfortunate if we shut out all light for fear of run­
ning the risk of being duped by impostors. Little, progress
can be made in the acquisition of the knowledge of spirit-
phenomena unless earnest and patient research is made.
Unfortunately few have the necessary leisure for such pro­
longed attention. . The result is inertia and lack of interest«
I have had several opportunities of attending Mr, and
Mrs. Rishi’s seances held under the auspices .of. the Indian
Spiritualist Society, and I feel no hesitation in testifying to
the genuineness of the phenomena. To those who have had
no opportunities of seeing Mr. Rishi actually at work, this
book should prove of great value. It narrates a multitude
. of cases, as varied as they can be, of what happens:to
man after throwing off the mortal cage. Taken along with
4Subhadra5 his first publication on the subject, the book
.. furnishes authoritative and adequate ,material for initiating
. the reader into the truths of spirit-phenomena, and .Mr. Rishi.
is to be congratulated on bringing, out this much-needed
publication. "
,
PREFACE.
The present volume is my second publication the first ,
being “ SUBHADRA or LIFE AFTER D EATH ” . A
glance at-the contents will show that it is a summary of our
'experiences and activities during the last .eight years in
India and Abroad. The material is drawn mostly from the
Bulletins of the Indian Spiritualist Society and. will enable
the readers to "know what Spiritualism is and ■
what it stands -
for. The experiences in Europe will give an idea as to how
the movement is going on in England and other European
countries.
The manuscript was long ready for publication but
could not be brought out on account of various difficulties.
The preceding Book was very well appreciated and it is;
hoped that this will also receive the same encouragement.
Very few persons in our country take sufficient interest
in this knowledge and those who are interested in it to a
-
certain extent do not for various reasons take the trouble of
giving publicity to their experiences. But if those who had
some, ,were to come forward with courage of conviction the
subject will soon become popular and wide-spread.
I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to Mr.
Jamnadas.Mehta, the Mayor of Bombay for the foreword*
which he has kindly written for the book.
Girgaon, Bombay.
5th December 1938,
V . D. Rishi
C O N T E N T S .
CHAPTER 1,
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
TV/, of
What is Spiritualism? ... 1
Do Spirits Exist? ... 2
The' Significance of . -
Spiritualism. ... 4
Spiritual]*stic Phenomena
and Public Opinion 8
Psychic Research and
Religion ... 10
"Why I believe in personal
Immortality ..." 13
Indirect Evocations ... 17
-Vi». i[f
Life beyond the Weil , ,21
The Super-Physical W orld'’, ¿9'
Spiritualism and Historical
Research ... ; 31;
Spiritualism ancl Rebirth 33
Salvation and Spirit,
Communication ... 35
Identity, of Spirits . . ... ■ 36
Our Duty towards the dead 38
On the Means oJf
Communications ... 46
ChAPTER II.
TALKS WITH SUBHADRABAI.
Xo.(>/ p(UJt\
Unexpected Tisits ... 43
Striking Corroborations 46
Recognising Old Spirits 47
Appearance of Spirits ... 47
Notable Incidents ... 47
Premature Death ... 48
S o. <
>
fJ
H
it)
Memorials ... 49
Foreknowledge ... 50
Dream Experiences ... 50
Indifference to Wordly
Things * ... 52
.Reminder. ... 52
Repeated Visits ... 52
CHAPTER IH.
OKA’S COMMUNICATIONS.
No. if pUffO,
Liking for flowers ... 55
Unexpected Messages ... 56
Reference to Higher Spirits 57
Appreciation by Other :Spirit '. 57
A Levitation Experiment . 58
An Instructive Dialogue 60
An Experiment for Spirit
Photography ... 63
Confusion in Temple . ... 63
Can Spirits see Thoughts? 65
Tracing An Unknown Spirit 65
Attempts for Psyçhograpby 66
Talks withvMr.-Khare : ..., 67
Explaining an Interro-
■ gatory Mark ... 67
•Questions .Regarding Future 68
Blunder in Japa . ; ... 68
Peculiar Expressions ... ■68
Calling "Himself a Halfmaaiiv 69
Communications - in' Diffe­
rent Languages : ... 69
Annoyance by the Touch
"of a Plate ... 71
Influence of Clouds on
Communications ... 71
Introducing a Stranger ... 71
No, of paye*
Discourse on Guides ... ' 72
Thoughts on a Musical
Instrument - ... ,, 73
Interesting Close of a Seance ..74
Use of ;Spirit-Communication 75
Eagerness for Communication 75
Importance of Spirit
.Communication ... 75
Basera Greetings ..... 76
Man and His Sheaths ... 76'
U nexpected Appearances 77
The Broken Glass-Pane .
. 78
Talks Regarding Divali
Celebrations : . 79
Oka's Patriotism .
. ... 7^
Pointing Gut a Mistake - ... 80
Views About Hilling ’ ... _ 80
Attending a Meeting ... 81
Views Regarding
Earth-Quakes , . ... . 82
Regret ... ... 82
Reference to Call-Bell ... 82
Some Interesting Talks 83
Humour .. ... 86
Introduction by Another
Spirit ... 86
Views on Shraddha ... 87
CHAPTER IV.
EXPERIENCES
Nth of-page.
London Congress 1928 ... 88
The Hague Congress 1931 95
Materialisation Experiments 95
Communigraph ... 96
Spirit Call-Bell 97
m EUROPE.
Ac. tf page.
Clairvoyance ... 97
P s y c h p m e t r y - . ... .. 98
Direct Voice ... 98
Spirit. Healing .... 99
Trance Address of
Mrs. Morris .... 101
VIII
■Spirit photography
A Message to India , -
Barcelona .Congress 1934
Congress Story . ...
Beincarnation '■
■Conclusions .
Excursions .
Experien.cs in London
:A Lecture in G. M. S. A*
.Attempts for Photography
102
102
104
104
106
107
107
108
109'
109
Co-Operation of Spirits 110
Transfiguration and
■ Trance-speaking 111
Scotography •
•
• 111
Materialisation Seance ... 112
Direct "Voice and Tele- -
■
■ kinesis 112
A Guide’s Encouragement 113
A'New Link •
•
• 114
Subhadrabai’s Visits ...' 115
CHAPTER V.
INTERESTING' OBSERVATIONS
No. of 2mJe-
A Drowning Tragedy .** 117
A Dinner for Spirits ■
' ... US
A Spirit. Doctor’s Advice 119
.-Spirit Guidance. , —' 119
A Spirit .asksfor a Cup of Tea 120
AVividDream. ... v.120
A Spirit-Guardian’s Help 121
A Spirit.Causes Electric
Shocks 122
Frivolous Sitters Admo­
nished y . 122
A Brother’s Advice 122
Help by a Literate Spirit 123
Indifference to Worldly .
■ matters : 123
Indifference to Earthly
Remains 124
Number of planes 124
Proofs about the Identity
. of a Spirit 124
Verification of a Spiri-
Message 125
Strange Experiences 126
Intrusion By Uiidesired - . , ■■
{:
Spirits 130I
How to avoid Harmful
Spirits ? 132
Spirit Help 134
Spirit Trouble ■
■135 ■■
Materialisation Phenomena 136
No, of
Thirsty Spirits .
A Spirit’s Ring
A Curious Communication :
A W ife’s'Unabated Love :
Touching Communications
Eagerness of Communication
Diagnosis by a
Spirit-Doctor
A 'W ife’s Anxiety
A Mother’s Insistence
Experiments with Call-Bell
Talks with a. Saint
A Spirit Explains
Splattering'
Haunted Houses y
Discipline in the next World
Children"in the
Spirit-World /
Can Living Persons be.
.' • . . invoked ? .
Father’s E ncouragement_'.
Pit-falls o f Communications
Casual Talks ;
Can Animals be Evoked?
Dying Experiences
Enigmatie Expressions
Description of the
■ Spirit Body .
How the Table, tilts ? ■
A Guru’s Guidance
Joy of Meeting
A GM ’Sjtalks with her f riend
137
138
138
139
140
141
141
142
142
143
145'
146
.146'
148
148.
150
151
152
156
157
158
159
160
160
160
162
163
D E D I C A T E D A
With kind permission
to
Sheth TULSIDAS G. KH ATAU , as a token of hie Pennine'"
sympathy and ardent love for the advancement of
Spiritualism in India.
Author.
!
p
K
I
CHAPTER I
Occasional Contributions.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM?
The knowledge regarding life after death is
commonly called Spiritualism. Its principles though
as old as humanity are being proved by new methods.
As affirmed by the recent International Congress at
Barcelona they are:—
1. Existence of God, supreme Intelligence and
first cause of every thing.
2. Existence of the soul, linked during earthly
life to the physical corruptible body by an
intermediary element called perisprit or fluid
body.
3. Immortality of the soul and its continual
evolution towards perfection by successive
stages.
4. The possibility of communication, by medi­
ums between the visible and the invisible,
namely, between the living and the dead.
5. Individual and collective responsibility bet­
ween all creatures according to the law of
Causality and retributive Justice.
It will be worth while to bear in mind that the
above principles are not based on any text, tradition,
or institution, but upon observed facts and pheno­
mena. Much misconception prevails regarding this
knowledge of vital importance and tlm sooner it is
removed, the better it will be in the interests of
humanity.
x X X
2 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
DO SPIRITS EXIST?
Human survival after death is admitted in all
the scriptures of the East as well as the W est, and is
the essential principle underlying all religions. The
ideas and the ways of expressing them may differ but
the fact is not denied by the followers of any faith.
Only the meterialists are opposed to this view which
is subversive of all current ideas regarding life and
the world. The scientists of today are desperately
trying to maintain that death is the annihilation of
human personality, but they are fast losing their
ground before the onslaught of spiritualist pheno­
mena.
Although the belief in human survival and the
immortality of the soul is very common and amonts
almost to intuition, it is very hazy and inaccurate. The
majority of persons believe that the soul does survive,
but they are quite ignorant of its nature. It cannot
be defined or described, and its nature is shrouded in
deep mystery. The Upanishads which deal with this
point have always given a negative definition saying
that it is not this or that, like the Karta in a joint
Hindu family.
Mere faith in these matters based on certain texts
of doubtful antiquity is of little avail, and in this age
of scientific research one should, if possible, try to
get some evidence that would appeal to one’s senses
and understanding. Before proceeding to discuss the
evidence demostrating the fact of human survival it
is necessary to define the term spirit which is very
often confused with soul. In spiritualistic termi­
nology “ SPIRIT ” means the etheric body of an
individual having all his characteristics. A clear
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 3
.distinction must be drawn and borne in mind between
the terms “ SOUL ” and “ SPIRIT ” . The former
is vague and intangible without any size or form
while the latter is the exact counterpart of the
physical portion of the individual. This distinction
should never be lost sight of in considering the
evidence recorded in seances.
The proofs regarding the existence of the etherie
body are so strong and convincing that any sane man
is bound to accept them. The phenomena have been
proved to the hilt, but each person thinks that the
case should be proved ‘ de novo ’ simply because he
has asked for evidence. All the experiments beginn­
ing from the elementary phenomenon of table turning
down to that of materialisation have demonstrated
that the etherie body survives after death and can
under certain conditions communicate with those who
are living on earth. But they cannot be demonstrated
at one’s sweet will as spiritualism is based on obser­
vation rather than experiment.
It would be impossible to go through a regular
course of experimetation in this branch of knowledge
as is done in physics or chemistry. In the natural
sciences we operate on brute matter, manipulating it
at will, and with almost a certainty of producing a
given effect; in spiritualism, on the contrary, we have
to deal with intelligence who have their liberty, and
who constantly prove to us that they are not subject
to our commands. It is consequently necessary to
await the occurrence of the phenomena, holding oursel­
ves in readiness to observe them when they occur.
Let those who deny the existence of spirits
calmly consider the mass of evidence that has been
4 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
assiduously collected by the students psychic research.
The facts observed by them can be explained only by
the spirit hypothesis, which alone affords a reasona­
ble solution of the phenomena. Making allowance
for every possible error in observation or fraud on
the part of certain unscrupulous persons, there un­
doubtedly remains a residue of facts which can and
ought to be attributed to spirit agency. Those who
see nothing beyond the meterial universe and regard
all intellectual qualities as the secretion of the brain
will find in it much meterial for reflection. Let them
not in their conservatism shut out the evidence that
can be obtained through new channels. Huxley
when requested to attend the experiments in psychic
phenomena refused to do so stating that they did not
interest him, while Spencer had decided against them
on “ a priori” grounds. However great these men
might have been in their own sphere of knowle­
dge, their attitude towards psychic research, to say
the least, was most unreasonable and unscientific.
Other scientists realising the great importance of his
neglected branch of knowledge devoted their time
and energy to the study of the phemena, and boldly
declared their reality. Let us follow in their foot­
steps and make researches for the ascertainment of
this truth which is of vital importance of humanity.
X X X
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
It is a strange irony of fate that the importance
of spirit communion and all what spiritualism stands
for should be necessary to be impressed upon our
countrymen, when once we had this knowledge to a
.preeminent extent. In fact, it is commonly believed
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 5
that India is nothing if not spiritual. But it must
be distinctly pointed out that however advanced our
forefathers might have been in this knowledge, it is
now practically lost to us, and we are sadly lagging
behind in this which was our special heritage.
The world, at the present stage of its evolution,
wants knowledge and not mere belief. Faith has
done incalculable mischief and naturally is discarded
by those who are critical and take reason as their guide.
The essential function of spiritualism is to de-
monstrat the continuity of life after death and the
possibility, nay, the desirability of communication
with those who are gone over. Its ultimate object
is to bring about the moral amelioration of mankind
and to ensure our happiness in the world hereafter.
To us who have investigated this branch of know­
ledge, it is an unchallengable truth and cannot be
doubted save by those who are blind to all psychic
phenomena, and will not believe the testimony of
-even their own senses.
But it may be asked, as is often done by very
many critics, “ W hat is the good of all these efforts ?
Is not the present world enough for our activities and
purposes ? W h y disturb the dead from their peace­
ful slumber?” Some impertinently say that we are
concerned more with the living than with the dead.
Sush a mentality betrays their abysmal ignorance
about this knowledge of transcendental importance.
Even among the leaders of thought in the
country there is so much misunderstanding about this
vital truth, that their very ignorance makes one feel
the urgent necessity of spreading the knowledge in
India. Religions, being over-grown- with forms and
6 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
choked with mysteries, need to be vitalised with the
new revelation which is the fountain-head and essence
of all Faiths. Misconceptions regarding immediate
return or resting in graves till the Judgment Day
have made the proper understanding of the subject
extremely ‘ difficult and these points need to be
clearly explained for presenting the facts observed in
psychic research.
Those who have the world too much with them
and possess only a circumscribed vision of it may
safely be allowed to remain in their blessed ignorance.
But the aspirant to knowledge and light will find
new vistas of glorious vision before them and ' a vast
unexplored region deserving our best attention and
and researsh. To them it will be a great consolation-
to learn that their friends on the other side of life
are not only not disturbed by our attempts to com­
municate -with them but on the other hand feel
encouraged by the touch with those whom they love.
They yearn to communicate with us but the barriers
of our ignorance and indifference render their efforts
difficult if not futile. In all the seances it is the
uniform experience that the spirits are eager to talk
with their friends on earth. In fact they as it were
vie with one another in seizing the rare opportunity
afforded to them in a seance and often struggle for.
precedence. Shall we not co-operate with them and
facilitate their efforts to pierce the veil that separates-
us from them ?
The main purpose of the spiritualist movement
is not yet grasped by many persons. They think
that its only object is to give some consolation to
bereaved persons by restoring communication between
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 7
two death divided souls. In an expectancy circle
that is the main object. But it should not end there.
The great significance o£ the new spiritualist
movement, the coming of spirit-people into touch with
those whom they have left behind is not only to
afford proof of the continuity o£ personality and life
after death, not only to prove that these. discarnate
human beings are near to comfort and to guide us, but
above all to open our minds to knowledge and our
souls to righteousness.
The desire to get into touch with the beloved
dead leads one to approach this subject. But we
should not dwell too long on mere association with
the loved one. W e must both progress; and that is
one of the reasons why sometimes we do not get any
messages. There are higher guides interfering and
one should not seek to impose our will on theirs in
such matters.
To hold seances only for the pleasure of speaking
to one’s departed friends is to misunderstand the pur­
pose of breaking through the veil that separates the
spiritual from the material and if we do not fully
grasp this point we may be prevented from discourse
by higher spirits or if we burgle into it we may do
ourselves some serious harm. Hence we must learn
the laws of the spirit and follow them.
The recognised religions ought to welcome and
encourage this knowledge enthusiastically; but the
apathy and ignorance shown concerning this spiritual
knowledge by many of the leaders of religion is as
deplorable as it is hard to understand. They of all men
should be the first to consider the phenomena as they,
bring to them actual proofs of personal survival and
8 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
o£ so much else ■which they have themselves affirmed.
For centuries they have been worsted in their fight
with the sceptics who reasonably demand proofs in­
stead' of texts. Spiritualism at last brings them those
proofs so that these can meet the scientist upon his
ground but instead of recognition or gratitude the
orthodox people as it were fight shy of this know­
ledge and turn away from that spiritual help and
inspiration which this new revelation brings with it
Let us hope for the day when they will realize the
fact of human survival with all its implications.
X X X
SPIRITUALISTIC PHENOMENA AND PUBLIC
OPINION.
There seems to be much misconception regarding
Spirit-communication and the phenomena observed
through psychic reseach. Ignorant critics and ob­
stinate negationists have in and out of season added
to this misconception and have tried to lead the pub-
lie away from the true principles of this subject. It
is worthwhile to state at the outset that this know­
ledge is based on obsrvations' rather than upon experi­
ments and those who demand scientific control and
proofs as those obtained in Physical Sciences do not
consider that mediumship, whatever its origin and
nature, is not a mechanical function like that of a
physical apparatus. It is based on psychism and it
cannot be claimed that the actions of consciousness,
of automatism or of subconsciousness will take place
under fixed conditions to which only a machine of
iron or wood can be indifferent.
The phenomena cannot be controlled or comman­
ded, and the more important ones occur especially
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 9
when they are not asked for or expected. It is idle
therefore to throw ont challenges to the students of
this science and question their experiences. Too
much has been said regarding the offer of a big prize
in certain papers. It is very easy to put up such a
big reward on quite unacceptable terms and to pose
as geniune seekers after truth. W ill anybody repro­
duce an astronomical phenomena by the lure of any
fabulous reward F One has to wait and observe them
when they occur and form the hypothesis explaining
them. A t present the students of Psychism
have come to the conclusion that the existence of
spirits and their efforts to produce the phenomena are
quite acceptable as a working hypothesis of this know­
ledge. To them the evidence is concluusive and suffi­
cient to justify their claim. If it does not satisfy
them, they are free to hold their own opinions any
way they like and to make further reseach.
We have around us an ever-increasing number
of well-trained intellects keenly interested in the phe­
nomena of Metapsychism. But these people are,
nearly all, absolutely materially unable to abandon
their professional careers as lawyears, doctors, etc., in
order to devote all their time to this, in some respects,
most ungrateful study of Mediumship.
Today the whole research depends upon indivi­
dual efforts financially aided by some persons interes­
ted in this knowledge. The critics will do well to
study the vast literature on this subject containing
the evidence of numerous investigators before ventur­
ing to level their attacks in the manner they are
doing.
10 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
PSYCHIC RESEARCH AND RELIGION
The close connection of religion with psychic
research can never be overemphasized. The majority
of persons who approach this subject either out of
curiosity or with a view to obtain some consolation
in their bereavement hardly realize its implications
and religious importance. The attitude of some men
who exclaim “ It will be time enough to think of the
next world when we get there ” represents in an
exreme form the sort of feeling with which we look
upon the subject that is being earnestly investigated
in some circles and violently hated in others. Some
piously orthodox persons look upon psychic research
and spiritualistic enquiry with a sort of dread mainly
on the ground that it is an unwarranted intrusion
into the secrets which would be better left a sealed
book until we get there. The basic assumption
throughout those enquiries is that they are unnece­
ssary and meddlesome interferences with what for the
present does not concern us. In short they are
regarded as tc Curious Arts
It is true that some of the greatest minds have
approached this field of research with a hope that
facts will come to light of such character that survival
of conscious intelligence after the death of the body
will no longer be a matter solely dependening upon
faith but a scientifically demonstrable truth. The
possibility of intercourse with the discarnate intell-
gence will always be the goad for which the psychical
researchers will strive as the physicists have been
doing to demonstrate the ultimate continuity of the
laws governing the immaterial world. W ith many
persons it is an established fact, but what is not
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS I f
always seen is the tremendous issue involved in the
knowledge that has come to light and has been placed
on a fairly secure basis. Whether it concerns us or
not to know about the conditions of our departed
friends, it does without doubt concern us to know
about our own in the great beyond.
The vital question which psychical research has-
solved is that we are spiritual beings and have a
sourse of inspiration which is not given to us by the
physical senses. Such an enquiry is not a thing so
entirely concerned with the other world that it may
be left till we get there, for, with it is bound up the
whole question of the possibility of real religious-
experience.
Most of the spiritually minded persons have a
tendency to limit the manifestation of the workings
of a hidden power to certain epochs and personalities
and to leave the rest in the hands of the physicists.
The result of this attitude of mind is reflected today
to a greater extent with more serious consquences
than we are prone to realise. Prayer and worship with
all their adjuncts become merely an emotional appeal
by the worshippers to their own moral senses. E n­
closed within the prison walls of our senses, we are to
imagine for ourselves a God with whom we have no
direct intercourse, and to serve Him in accordance
with the principles derived by cursives from the his­
torical records of the past.
Though strange, it is true that some of the most
important discoveries have been the by-products in
the attempts to obtain some other coveted object.
Columbus started on his hazardous voyage with the
idea to find out the way to India but discovered a new
12 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
"Continent. Instances like these can be multiplied to
any extent and it may be pointed out that my quest
for Subhadrabai’s after-death condition led me to this
knowledge of transcendental importance.
By a remorseless chain of reasoning religion be-
>comes “ Morals tinged with emotion.” It is not
proposed to discuss here whether the position is satis­
factory, but let us ask ourselves whether such restric­
ted subjectivities can be correctly called a real religious
■experience. Any experience to be called real must be
in some sense a revelation that is a contact with an
■objective fact, by which is meant an entity which is
not wholly comprised within the conscious subjectivity
-of the person experiencing it. Otherwise it would be
mere reflection. The supreme question the answer
to which "will largely determine the nature of religious
■experience is whether we do in religious matters come
into contact with a reality which can be compared to
the reading of a sensational news in a daily paper or
the injury caused to us by some accident.
Since God is greater than ourselves, as admitted
by all religions there must be experimental theology
;as there is experimental physics or a n »experimental
psychology. To constitute a valid experience there
must be a contact of mind with something which is
beyond itself. It may be realised as the expansion
•of self or a meeting with an unseen friend, but at any
rate it must beyond the range of our normal cons-
■oiousness and capable of giving a new outlook to the
mind. Essentially it must be of the nature of a
revelation.
Is such experience a possibility? The physical
^sciences have answered the question for the most part
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 13
in terms of materialism, as they regard life a series
of fermentations and consciousness as a highly evolved
process consequent on chemical changes in the human,
brain. The reply of orthodox theology is that Grod has
spoken in the past and that light has been given to
us in sufficient quantity. W e need not enquire about
the why and how of the inter-subjective intercourse..
Psychic research alone has brought to light facts
challenging the conclusions of the former end paving
the way for a new life that may 3?et be infused into
the dry bones of the latter. In its endeavours to get
into touch with the dear departed it has incidentally
unearthed a continent of marvels and brought forth
new facts which are capable of infinite possibilities,,
in religion and science.
x x x
WHY I BELIEVE IN PERSONAL IMMORTALITY
It is now more than a decade since I commenced,
the study of spirilualism, and the public are well
aware of m y activities for the furtherance of this-
knowledge in India. M y interest in this subject was-
aroused by the death of m y wife Subhadrabai; and I
yearned to know whether it was possible to get into-
touch with her and to know something about her
welfare. After great efforts and keen disappointments
I claim to have succeeded in m y attempt, and I ven­
ture to say that the experience of one individual will
serve as a guide to those who might be in the same
predicament. It must be made dear at the outset:
that by immortality I mean, not simply the survival
of the soul afther death, as is commonly believed*
1 4 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
but that o£ the etheric body possessing memory, love?
hatred and all the characteristics which are the essen­
tial parts of an individual. Many people lose sight
■of this basic principle of the continuity of life after
death and erroneously reagard that the vague and
nebulous something which survives after death and
is commonly called the soul is either immediately
reborn in some physical organism, or is merged into
the infinite ocean of life wherein its indentity is
■entirely lost. Very few persons are aware of the
exact nature of this change after death and it is very
necessary to make continued and persistant efforts to
educate the people about this matter. They are
surprised to hear that there is a way by which they
■can get into touch with their dear departed ones,
and regard the description about the next .world as
a fairy tale. No amount of argumentation influences
them and they pertinaciously cling to their erroneous
views based upon misinterpretation of a few texts in
sacred bookes of doubtful antiquity.
The evidence which has encouraged me to pro­
found this grand truth and in several respects a
revolutionary idea, is so strong that I cannot but
believe it. Most of the testimony is obtained from
m y wife, and it is not possible to lay the whole of it
before public scrutiny. No useful purpose would be
served by such an exposure which would simply tickle
the fancy of an ignorant critic. But I would most
■emphatically say that I have been quite convinced
about her continued existence and unabated love.
She is my most frequent communicator and much of
the information which I have gathered about the
other world has been revived from her. The theories
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS 15
of subliminal self and telepathy would not explain the
voluminous messages which I received from her.
The touch which she has with this world is intermit­
tent and not continuous, and hence she is unaware of
the things which happened during her absence. Be­
sides her messages, there are other proofs also of her
existence and identity, such as her photograph which
I could get in a seance (a sitting for spirit phenomena)
in London, and her vision to some clairvoyant
mediums. She is regular in her visits and almost
every morning I have the pleasure of having a talk
with her.
Besides m y wife, other relations of mine who
are in the other world had also occasionally come and
communicated with me. My eagerness to talk with
them is in no way less than the desire to communicate
with her, but somehow I find that their visits are not
so frequent, and the messages are short as compared
with hers. When I asked my father about this point
he said: “ Do not think that I have forgotton you, or
m y love has in any way diminished. You may be
led to think like that, but as I learn everything about
you from her (Subhadrabai) I do not come as often.”
The other world or better still, life after death
seems to be very similar to physical existence. Of
course there are diffrences in the two stages but there
are many common points also. The discarnate hu­
man beings have a subtle body which is the counter­
part of this physical vehicle and is to them as real
and substantial as the latter was while living. They
are engaged in some work which is determined
according to their tendencies and the laws of the next
world. Love, memory, and intellectual attainments
16 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
are carried over, and they are not lacking in humour
also. They simply sleep here and wake up in the
etheric regions which seem to be concentric circles
surrounding the earth. It is difficult to give an exact
idea of their location in earthly measurement, but
usually we are told that they are seven in number,
and the spirituality of a spirit determines his stay in
a particular region. No religion is favoured, nor is
there any vicarious atonement. Love and disinteres­
ted service of humanity are the watch-words of
progress and ensure an individual’s happiness in those
regions.
Communication though possible is not easy, and
one would surely be disappointed if one were to insist
upon a particular proof of identity without minding
the laws of spirit intercourse. W e have repeatedly
found out that invisible friends cannot be controlled
or commanded, and it would be idle to suppose that
they would care to answer our questions which are
prompted by mere curiosity or ridicule. It cannot be
denied that all the replies are not correct, but making
allowance for every objection and argument, we still
find some incontrovertible proof suggesting the spirit
hypothesis. Those who deny our claims are gene­
rally to be found amongst persons who have never
studied the subject, or attended a sufficient number
of seances, and have fantastic notions about life after
death.
Lastly, I would like to discuss the oft-repeated
question, whether we are not wasting our time and
energy upon a dubious inquiry which may not yield
any fruit or the results of which may be quite dis.
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
1 7
S ^ 0naTo Îb for such a
leseaieh. Io those who seriously ask this question T
can only say m the words o£ the great Russian sav ant
Count Aksakoiï that life on earth can have n
“ S “
n X fo în ÏÏX b d Î m
0D8trate ‘he
«0 tfZSsÎ& v t s
benefit by the pursuit of this knowledge. They fa
i:i
to understand that the essential function of spirituV
hsm is the moral amelioration of mankind S the
spirits are allowed to have intercourse with us mainly
Tilth a view to ensure our happiness in the hereafter.
_ lose v
vhe commercialize this knowledge will he sadlv
disappointed and will not get the very thing which
they are seeking through it. Spiritualism is a uni-
Tei sal religion, and affords a common platform, for
all nations to meet together irrespective of any creed
or nationality. Let_ us try to study it in a truly
know ed^r^ ^ im^ ^ e glorious teachings of the
x X x
in d irec t e v o c a t io n s.
Any phenomena which cannot be explained nor-
mally is always puzzling, the more so when it trans-
cends the known physical laws. The position becomes
gieatiy complicated when another factor viz the
unseen entities is introduced, or has to
be admitted for want of any other rational explana­
tion. _ ihe communications received in indirect
evocations, the manner in which they are obtained
and the method employed for these attempts leave
no doubt in the mind of any reasonable inquirer
legal ding the genuineness ofthe phenom
ena andthe
18 OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS
presence of a discarnate entity. The experiments
are held under test conditions leaving no room for
doubt or disbelief of any kind, and the irresistible
conclusion follows as a natural corollary from all the
recorded observations. They form a very interesting
and instructive branch of studj' deserving serious
consideration before passing any judgement about
the inference to be drawn therefrom.
The usual way in which these indirect evocations
are held is to think most seriously about the spirit
whose presence you want at the seance, and await
patiently his arrival. The discarnate person need not
be known to the sitters, who desire this at a particular
place. Their thought-force coupled with the desire
of the spirit often induces him to respond to the invo­
cation and express his ideas to the individuals who
seek his presence. The communications received on
such occasions are so characteristic that none but a
purblind man will deny their authenticity. They are
not always full of evidential matter, nor do they
often contain the replies to the test questions of the
persons known to the spirits, but the internal evide­
nce, however meagre, is sufficient to justify a belief in
the presence of a particular entity-. The problem can
be easily solved if we bear in mind the difficulties
experienced by the spirit-friends in expressing their
ideas to those on the earth-plane.
Experiments of the above kind are often tried
by us and we feel no hesitation in proclaiming our
belief in the communications received on these occa­
sions. The attempts are usually held in the morn­
ing after our daily talks with Subhadrabai. The
name of the spirit to be invoked and its relation with
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 19
the person seeking communication with it are suffi­
cient for the purpose. m
. The sincerity and the integrity of the sitters are
the sine qua non both for the appearance of the
spirits as well as the authenticity of the communica­
tions. They must make this effort systematically
and not m a slip-shod manner. If the regular visits
of bubhadrabai for the morning talks are wonderful
phenomena, her helping in these attempts is still
more astonishing its has been demonstrated on several
occasions. Although the spirits come of their own
accord, she sometimes acts as their interpreter when
they- are unable to express their ideas in the langua-
ges known to us. She gives their descriptions at the
close of the seances which are often confirmed by the
persons related to the spirits. When the desired
spirit^does not respond at a particular seance she
indicates the matter and advises us to make the
attempt on the next day. W e have literally to grope
in the dark for getting into touch with an unknown
spirit who really speaking favours us with his pre­
sence m_response to our invocation. It should not
be imagined that the process is an easy one, and we
have simply to invoke a spirit and get him at the
first attempt. In tact the task at times becomes so
tnesome that we have to leave it at that hour even
though we are eagerly waiting to get the necessary
information at the earliest opportunity. It is no use
getting excited also when the spirit fails to cornmu-
nicate as quickly as desired, because we have often
realised that there is a distinct improvement in
w n mg when we treat them with politeness and
respect*
20 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
Various theories may be brought forward to
explain the above phenomena and the communications
received in this way. Exaggeration, error of judge­
ment, if not deliberate fraud may also be suggested;
but we need take no notice of them when we are
working with all sincerity. W e must frankly admit
that regarding the modus operandi of the phenomena
we know nothing, and we have to find a working
hypothesis for the facts observed in such experiments»
An ignorant critic will very readily argue that the
communications may be the products of our sub­
conscious or unconscious self. The argument about
the submerged strata of the human mind, and of
secondary personality is the sheet anchor of most of
the critics of this knowledge. They bring forward this
explanation when any other fails to apply. They
attribute almost superhuman powers to the unconscious
mind in their enthusiasm to deny the spiritualistic
hypothesis. It would be an interesting case for an
alienist to study our mental structure, for he will have
to impute powers unknown to us, which are as it
were awakened by a magic-wand during the seance.
He will have to hold that our personality is
metamorphosed the moment we invoke a particular
spirit and we inherit all his ideas and anxieties
without his presence. The strangest part is that we-
feel quite helpless unless these unseen entities favour
us with their visits, when only we get a few glimpses
about them. They cannot be controlled or command­
ed, and had the results been due to some strata of
our mind we ought to get uniform experiences every
time. Perhaps these pseudo-psychologists will bring
forth some queer explanation for the alleged pheno­
mena. But I can only say, what Prof. Morselli has-
O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 21
•so forcibly stated, that we must save psychology
from their infestation and depredation.
Another plausible argument that may be sugges-
- ted in this connection is that as a result of the concen­
tration on such occasions, we might be creating a
thought-form that has got all the semblance of the
real individual. A little reflection will show that
a thought-form thus created cannot have the ideas of
an individual and the form without the essential
substance is like a body without the life-giving
principle. X o amount of deep concentration will
vitalise a form and change it into a real ■'■individual.
X X X
LIFE BEYOND THE VEIL
Very few people discuss the question, of death,
and the fate of the individual passing through its
portals. They think that their duty towards the
dead ends either by burning or burying him cere­
moniously according to the prescribed rites. The
more orthodox would regularly perform the religious
ceremonies enjoined by the scriptures, and have the
satisfaction of facilitating the onward march of the
individual. Some may perpetuate his memory by
erecting a statue or a monument, but few try to un­
ravel the mystery of death and get some glimpses of
that unexplored region.
The students of Psychic Science have collected a
mass of information about this matter of vital im ­
portance which is sure to revolutionise many of our
ideas regarding after-death conditions. The material
is obtained directly from those in that state of exis­
tence and is based not on any text, tradition or
22 O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
intuition but upon observed facts and phenomena. It
has been tested by the rules of logic and reason.
The uniformity of statements received in many lands
lends support to their authenticity and clearly shows
that they are not the products of the imagination of
the mediums through whom they are delivered. The
main consideration for the credibility of this informa­
tion is the identity of a particular spirit and his power
of observation. When this is fairly established there
should he no difficulty in relying upon his statements
about the conditions in the other world. It cannot
be said that they are truthful about verifiable matters,
but are unworthy of credit when asked about the
conditions prevailing in their own habitation.
In order to understand the description of the
spirit-world, as given by the spirits, it would be neces­
sary to know the exact meaning of the term ‘‘ Spirit.”'
It is not the Atma which is a vague and indescribable
something, without any form or limbs. In spiritua­
listic terminology a spirit means an etheric-bodied
individual having the same ideas and tendencies, and
retaining his individual characteristics. The etheric
body is an exact double of the physical sheath with
all its limbs and features. It is for this reason that a
spirit-photograph resembles the one taken during the
life-time of the individual and can be unmistakably
recognised. It is not the photograph of the soul of
that individual but of his etheric body, which to him
is as real and substantial as the physical is to us.
This is the uniform statement of all spirits in different
lands.
They state that death is painless, meaning there­
by that the process of death is like going to sleep.
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 23
An individual passing over into the other world is
just the same man five minutes after death as he was
before; and all his characteristics along with his
thought, love and memory remain unchanged. The
cloud of illness disappears and the individual feels a
sort of relief by the change. A spirit once said
“ W e feel the change as a serpent might do when he
has left the slough” . The discarnate individual can
see his friends and relations in flesh and is greatly
pained to see them mourning for him. He tries to
prove his existence in various ways to earthly beings,
by keeping his astral arm on their shoulders and
tries to console them ; but within a short time he
realises the futility of his attempts as the touch
of his astral arms cannot be perceived by those on the
spot where he might have died. His astral body has
got all the limbs of the physical one and the defects
if there be any no longer continue in the etheric body.
A lame or blind man would not have the deformity
under which he was labouring during the physical
existence. Similary, if a man is wounded by weapon
or blown by a cannon-ball it would have no effect on
his astral body. Death is only the sepax*atiou of the
etheric body from the physical which is decomposed
after the transition, when the vital elements have
passed away from the latter. After this change, the
individual gets experiences according to his actions
here on earth. W hile trying to console his mourning
relatives, he has also to adapt his mind to the new
surroundings. The dying experiences recorded in the
seances throw much light upon the mystery of death
and enable us to know the feelings of diffrejat indivi­
duals at the time of death.
24 O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
These messages enable us to know the
feelings of the individuals at the beginning of the
transition. Sometimes they visit their friends and
relatives at a distance who are quite struck by such
visions. Numerous cases of such visions have been
recorded by careful investigators and they go to show
the veridity of the phenomena. Students of this
knowledge can find them, recorded in the annals of
the Psychic Research Society or in the books of learned
men like Camille Flammarion. It seems that the
individual can at this moment easily materialise his
etheric body on account of his ardent desire to
communicate with his relations. He cannot manage
to do so later on, as we find during the observations
in the seances. It is uniformly stated that the
individual has to stay in one of the planes of the
next world and it is important to note that the
number is usually said to be seven all over the world.
It is difficult to give the location of these planes;
but they have been stated to be concentric circles
surrounding our Globe. The sprituality of the indi­
vidual determines his stay in the higher planes and
the spirits assert, that they can visit the higher or lower
planes, if necessary, although they are not allowed
to stay in them. Several times, the distance of their
planes from our world is given by the denizens of
those regions, according to their knowledge, but it
seems that it cannot be stated according to our earthly
measures. After his entry in the other world, the
individual has to suffer in some way or other, for his
actions while on earth. The punishment is very
severe and very certain, as averred by those who had
to undei’go that ordeal. It seems that the law works
automatically and there is no judge or jury to try
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 25
them . A vil!an and a saint, cannot stay together in
those regions, and are allotted different places. Ii
things were to be otherwise, there would be no justice
in God’s creation and there would be a pervertion of
His power. It is confirmed by the messages received
from the other world that justice and truth are not
meant for this world only but also have their sway
in the Spirit-world. The punishment is inflicted for
the reformation of the individual, but it is not eternal.
The condemned souls can improve by the advice of the
higher ones, who take delight in disinterestedly wo­
rking for the former’s elevation. Usually a new
comer is puzzled to find things very much like those
on earth, and inconsistent with his previous ideas.
This bewilderment, is greatly due to his ignorance
regarding the conditions in the other world; and it
would indeed be a blessing to humanity to popula­
rise this knowledge, so that it may be useful to one
■when he goes over there.
Discarnate beings are required to be under the
supervision of some higher individuals, whom the
Hindu spirits call Gurus and others name Governors-
Whatever the designation may be, the fact is there
and the difference in name is insignificant. They can­
not violate their orders. Any transgression on their
part leads to severe punishment. Generally such a
violation is impracticable as the supervision es very
strict. It is meant for the welfare of the individuals
themselves and one of the punishments is to send
them back to the physical plane. The spirits are
usually averse to return to earth and have to do so
only out of compulsion or as a result of their own
actions.
26 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
There are some who state that they need nutri­
tion and clothes. They are, of course, made of the
fine form of matter of which their bodies are
composed. The physical particles being non-existent
in the etheric regions, the component parts of such
things cannot be made of the earthly atoms. They
are mysteriously provided with such things and are
not required to purchase them as a humorous critic
may be led to ask. It is impossible to pursue this
description too far, as it would lead to endless ques­
tions which are sometimes not answered by the spirits.
The photographs of spirits go to show that they have
all the necessary things there, otherwise these pictures
would have been obtained in a nude state.
The individual passes through a period of rest
which varies with different spirits. Communications
have been obtained even a few hours after death which
show that it is difficult to fix this interval of rest and
unconsciousness. They then mind their duties which
are determined according to their tendencies before
death. They seem to be so busy that they have
hardly any time to waste or to sit gossiping with
their friends. The life in the spirit-world seems to
be very orderly and regular. The next region is
uniformly stated by all spirits to be a very beautiful
land incomparably superior to the Earth. Their
opinion is very reliable, in as much as they have
experience of both the worlds. The daily life of the
spirits can be gathered from the descriptions which
they have given from time to time. Sometimes they
give a detailed account of their daily routine in the
spirit-world.
Some spirits have stated that they have to get
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 27"
up early in the morning, offer prayer to the Alm ighty,,
visit the temple, read books, take their food and pass
most of their time in meditation. In some individual
cases, the spirits are required by the Guru to do
additional praj'ers and worship which they have to
perform with great regularity. It seems that they
are all the while engrossed in spiritual matters, and
have to obtain permission from the Guru for visiting
particular places. The daily life of all spirits is not:
of a uniform character but is determined according to
the individual attainments. A statesman who was
busy throughout his life in guiding the destinies o f
his country is not expected to be engaged in
simply offering prayers or practising Japa. He is
occupied in some active woi*k for the upliftment of
his country. Similar messages have been received in.
different lands showing their interest in the country
which they lived. A noted general once expressed his
deep concern for the welfare of England, and warned
his countrymen to be on their guard. They can
influence the affairs of this world, by suggesting
thoughts to those who are in a position to do some
active work. Religious ideas being unchanged for a.,
considerable period, the individual offers his prayers-
in his own way as he was wont to do while living.
That is the reason why a Hindu spirit writes about
temples and a Muslim about Kamaz in the next
world.
The messages from the other world go to show
that it is the counterpart of the earth, and most of
the earthly things are found there. The maxim ‘A s
above so below’ gives in a nutshell an idea about
that region; and hence we find that there are houses,,
schools, gardens and several other things, correspond-
.28 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
ing to those on earth. Those in higher regions take
delight in informing the lower ones, and the greatest
joy of heaven, as described by a spirit, is emptying hell.
The differences in sex continue, though not in the
grosser physical sense. Marriage and procreation are
not to be found there and all the addition is from the
physical plane. The supervision of the higher ones
is beneficial and highly conducive to their upliftment.
The propensities of lower nature compel the spirits
to return to earth-plane where only they can be satis­
fied. Their touch is intermittent with us and they
know only those things -which they have seen or can
tell about scenes which they might have witnessed.
They are not all-powerful or all-knowing, although
their vision is widened by the entry into the next
world. They have got greater facility in going from
one place to another, but cannot be present at both,
•at one and the same time. Children grow and the
older spirits return to normal age by a process of
rejuvenation. Love unites two souls together and
such loving spirits are also found to stay in one
abode. Earthly prejudices, orthodoxy and bigotry
gradually disaappear on the disillusionment following
death. Several times, a murdered individual is found
to insist upon avenging the crime.; but there are in­
stances of reconciliation also between two persons
who were at logger-heads -while living.
They seem to be ignorant about transcendental
matters such as the object of the Universe, or the
memory of the previous lives. A spirit when once
•asked about these matters expressed his utter inabi­
lity to solve such riddles. They affirm the existence
•of God, as the supreme cause of everything, but do
•not say that they had seen Him, although they
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 29
aspire to do so. An atheist is not made to suffer for
his disbelief but is disillusioned by the facts as seen
from the other world and by the experience of higher
beings. The vastness of the region precludes any
.possibility of giving a detailed account thereof and
one has to rest content with a bare outline of that
unexplored land. Several volumes will have to be
written to give sufficient information about the nece­
ssary points and one can read with advantage the
volumes of -Mr. Yale.Owen who has written a lucid
account after a study extending over a quarter of a
century.
■
X x X ■
■
■
THE SUPER-PHYSICAL WORLD.
In these days of political agitation and the pro­
gress of Science, hardly any attention is being paid
to the existence of the great unseen region that
surronds and interpenetrates us. In fact, it is co­
mmonly believed like the Charvakas. of ancient times,
that there is no life after death and our goal in life
should be to eat, drink and be merry. The scientists
of today are busy studying the material side of the
universe, harnessing nature for the pleasures as well as
the destruction of humanity, and trying to prove, if
posssible, that there is nothing beyond the material
existence. The majority of them are blind or indi­
fferent to the psychic evidence that goes to show that
there is something that survives after the physical
existence.
The horse-shoe incident in the life of Jesus Chirst
perhaps apocryphal aptly illustrates the indifference
of the people to psychic phenomena and their deeper
significance. W hile he was journeying through the
desert of Galilee with his apostles discoursing along
.30 O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
C
N
T
K
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
-the way about the kingdom of heaven, he happened
to see a horse-shoe and asked one of the apostles to
■pick it up. He being too absorbed with the subject
of discourse, and thinking lightlly of!such a trifling
thing paid no heed to the request of Jesus._ But he
realizing the importance of even the m ost insignificant
thing walked back a few steps, pocketd it in his robe,
and marched on to the next village, where he sold it
for a penny and purchased a few cherries. On resum­
ing their journey in the hot sun of the desert, he,
unknown, dropped some of the cherries one by one,
and the apostle, who disdained to pick up the horse­
shoe was only too glad to stoop several times to get
a cherry to refresh himself with the mysteriously
provided fruit.
Like many other parables this is capable of different
interpretations and can very well apply to the indiffere­
nce of the masses as well as the cultured people towards
the psychic experiences. Very few persons will be
found who had no experience of a mysterious nature.
It may be a dream, materialization, hearing of a voice
or some other manifestation of supernormal kind
which was puzzling to him and which he cannot
.account for. They may very well be compared with
the logs of wood that came floating from America
:and convinced Columbus about the existence of the
unknown land beyond the vast ocean. If the pheno­
mena are properly correlated and viewed in their
right perspective they will bring home to any
■reasonable man the existence of another world
beyond the material one.
The majority of people are too preoccupied with
«their own religions or rationalised views of life to
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 31
attach any importance to these phenomena, and they
are wont to ignore or exclude them from their
conception of the cosmos. These facts are regarded
generally as trivial, repulsive and not in harmony
with their religious or scientific views. There are
many who are satisfied about the genuineness of the
phenomena, but ignore them on account of the diffi­
culty of coordinating them with other scientific facts.
To them the task seems well nigh impossible particu­
larly because the phenomena cannot be controlled or
commanded. A comprehensive view of the cosmos
however will enable us to think that the phenomena
commonly miscalled supernatural are perfectly attri­
butable to causes which may be adjusted in the
universal scheme of things, and results of great value
m ay thereby be obtained.
X X X
SPIRITUALISM AND HISTORICAL RESEARCH.
Although the essential function of Spiritualism
•
is to prove the continuity7 of life after death, and the
possibility of communication with those who are gone
over, it can be of much help to us in our mmidane
•matters also, provided we practise it along right lures.
Healing broken-hearts, consulting spirit-friends about
the remedies for certain diseases, eliciting information
which was known exclusively to the spirit, and curing
maladies by the help of spirits are some of the uses
for which spiritualism is being utilised in different
places. A mysterious murder at Bournemouth in
England was traced by spiritualistic methods. But
it can be serviceable in certain other matters also, so
that those who are interested in that pursuit may
try to use it with advantage.
There are many points in history which have
32 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
baffled the attempts o£ researchers. Modern his­
tories are based on insufficient information and
distorted facts. They will have to be re-written if
more light is thrown upon several obscure points. In
vain are we seeking for a few letters here and there
of historical personages. How illuminating would it
be, if we get into direct touch with those very persons,
so that the least shadow of doubt m a}' be removed
about a particular contested point. This is not a mere
pious hope or a freak of imagination. Such information
can and has been obtained several times in this
way. The world may or may not believe in such
testimony, but those who have taken the trouble of
investigating the matter know it to be a fact as clear
as any other in the recognised branches of human
knowledge.
These investigations, though very interesting
and fraught with immense possibilities, have got cer­
tain limitations which must be always borne in mind.
Communication though possible is not easy. It is not
lit-ft ringing up the person on the ‘telephone’. Patient
research and sincere efforts are needed to get at
genuine communications. Sometimes the spirits are
unwilling to give the desired imformation as they do'
not attach much importance to that point from their
new state of existence.
Besides, if the spirit is no longer in the next
world, it is generally not possible to get into touch
with him, and information regarding him is usu­
ally supplied by other guiding spirits. No efforts
would then be of any avail, and the research student
will have to depend upon other avenues of finding
out the particular historical fact.
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 33
Spirits being persons like ns, sometimes take
delight as it were in impersonating other individuals.
This is particularly experienced in trying to commu­
nicate with great persons. If the services o£ a
clairvoyant be available on the occasion, the fraud
from the other side can easily be detected. In the
absence of such means, all possible circumstantial
evidence should be sought to ascertain the genuine­
ness of the messages. In my research extending over
several years, I have found fewer lying spirits than
living human beings. Barring such limitations, the
subject is very fascinating and would open a new
field for the students of history.
In this connection it will be worthwhile to point
out that the life of Joan of Arc was written mediumi-
stically by a young girl of fourteen, under the
control of the heroine herself, containing numerous
references to ancient manuscripts not known to histo­
rians, many of which have since been discovered
in old libraries, through the indications furnished by
the volume itself.
X X X
SPIRITUALISM AND RE-BIRTH.
It is commonly thought that the doctrine of re­
incarnation is inconsistent with the principles of spi­
ritualism. Many people believe in transmigration
and mistakenly think that the possibiliy of spirit
communication is inconsistent with the idea of rebirth.
They rely on certain texts in the Bhagawatgita and
assert that Lord Shree Krishna has propounded the
principle of immediate rebirth. A s a matter of .fact,
the interpretation of the verses bearing on this point;-
3 2 O C C A S IO N A t C O N T R IB U T IO N S
baffled the attempts of researchers. Modern his­
tories are based on insufficient information and
torieb au _ will have to be re-written it
more light is thrown 'upon several obscure points. In
^ a
te “ t hito dh-Mt touch with those very persons
the least shadow of doubt may he removed
• W a oa rtiS ar contested point. This is not a mere
pious hope or afreakof imagination. Such information
ean and has been obtained several tunes m this
ivav ' The world may or may not believe m such
testimony, but those who have ^ ^
investigating the matter know it to b® f £act/ " C
^ u
as any other in the recognised branches ot human
knowledge.
These investigations, though very interesting
j £raUo-ht with immense possibilities, have got cei-
1 n a tio n s which must be always borne m mmd
Gcenmunication though p o ssib e »n o t easy. It
like ringing up the person on the telephone . Patient
and sincere efforts are needed to get at
o-enuine communications. Sometimes the spiuts aic
" i o . to give the desired miformation as they do.
X i a d i nmch importance to that point from then-
new state of existence.
TW des if the spirit is no longer in the next
world it is generally not possible to_ get mto touch
with him, and information regarding hl“ ls ffu^ '
lily- annnlied by other guiding spirits, h o ettoits
would then be of any avail, and the research student
■will have to depend upon other avenues of finding
nnt the particular historical fact.
O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 33
Spirits being persons like ns, sometimes take
delight as it were in impersonating other individuals.
This is particularly experienced in trying to commu­
nicate with great persons. If the services of a
clairvoyant be available on the occasion, the fraud
from the other side can easily be detected. In the
absence of such means, all possible circumstantial
evidence should be sought to ascertain the genuine­
ness of the messages. In m y research extending over
several years, I have found fewer lying spirits than
living human beings. Barring such limitations, the
subject is very fascinating and would open a new
field for the students of history.
In this connection it will be worthwhile to point
out that the life of Joan of Arc was written mediumi-
stieally by a young girl of fourteen, under the
control of the heroine herself, containing numerous
references to ancient manuscripts not known to histo­
rians, many of which have since been discovered
in old libraries, through the indications furnished by
the volume itself.
X X X
SPIRITUALISM AND RE-BIRTH.
It is commonly thought that the doctrine of re­
incarnation is inconsistent with the principles of spi­
ritualism. Many people believe in transmigration
and mistakenly think that the possibiliy of spirit
communication is inconsistent with the idea of rebirth.
They rely on certain texts in the Bhagawatgita and
assert that Lord Shree Krishna has propounded fibs
principle of immediate rebirth. A s a matter o f -fa ct,
the interpretation of the verses bearing on this poin t"'
34 O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
is quite erroneous and faulty. The great Teacher
never seems to have held the view which has been
attributed to Mm. In one of his verses he says for
example “ Obtaining a new body is like the change
from boyhood to manhood and from manhood to old
age.” The idea underlying this verse is very impor­
tant, as it clearly shows that there is a continuity of
life after death. He compares this change to the
natural progress in a man’s physical body which is
gradual and not sudden, as some are led to think. An
individual passing from boyhood to adult age. thinks
himself to be the same person, has almost the same
ideas, and retains the same tendencies and love inspite
of the outward physical changes in his body. Similarly
the transition into etheric body is a process quite ana­
logous to this change. Those who have got doubts on
this point will do well to ponder over this verse and
try to find out its deeper significance.
Besides the above verse there are several others
in which the existence of Paraloka (N ext world) and
an individual’s stay in it has been admitted. W hile
explaining the fate of a Yoga-Bhrashta man (Fallen
from the path of Yoga) Lord Shree Krishna says, that
he having attained the glorious regions and having
stayed there for several years is born again in a pure and
noble fam ily. Here also the same idea is propounded.
Another verse bearing on this point is often quoted
but is never rightly understood. The verse runs as
follow s: “ Just as a man casts off old clothes and takes
up new ones, similarly the soul leaves old bodies and
enters new ones. ” It is inferred from this statement
that Shree Krishna inculcated the doctrine of imme­
diate transmigration. But when we read this verse
O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 35
along with others in the book, we find that there is
not the least evidence in support of this view. The
only thing that is meant from the above verse is that
the casting off of an old body can be compared with
the removal of w orn-out clothes, and taking up
new ones. Besides, the bodies need not mean physical
ones. The Hindu philosophy admits the existence of
several etheric bodies out of winch the second has
been definitely proved by spiritualism. It would
therefore not be proper to hold the view that the
possibility of spirit communication gives a go-bye
to the theory of re-birth.
x x x
SALVATION AND SPIRITCOMMUHICATION.
N ext to the theory of reincarnation, the principle
of salvation is a stumbling block with many persons
in the proper understanding of the possibility of
communication with the spirit-world. Several times
it is asked as to how the spirits who are supposed to
have attained salvation can communicate in our
seances or elsewhere. It must be stated here at the
outset that those who put these questions have
generally very vague ideas regarding the exact inter­
pretation of the term “ Salvation.” Usually it
connotes merging into the infinite ocean of life, or
becoming free from the cycle of birth and death. If
we accept the latter interpretation which to our mind
seems more reasonable, there is nothing inherently
inconsistent with the possibility of getting into touch
with such evolved spirits. They are there free, not
being compelled to return to earth in another incarna­
tion. The former interpretation however, does not
36 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
find support in the spiritualistic experiences, because
we invariably find that the identity o£ the communi­
cating individual, far from being lost is conclusively
demonstrated in all possible ways. It may be that
after an infinitely long period the _individual soul
is merged into the cosmic soul of which it is a part as
the Yedantists propound; but it seems fairly well
proved that for ages together the individual does
retain the same ideas and tendencies which he had
during his earthly life.
X X X
IDENTITY OF SPIRITS.
The identiy of a communicating spirit, though
no doubt an imporant matter, must be determined by
all circumstantial evidence. No hard and fast rule
can be laid down on this point and each case must be
decided on its merits. Besides, the degree of conclu­
sive evidence will vary with different sitters. Some
may be satisfied by a few personal touching messages,
while others will insist upon more convincing matter.
The failure to get a reply to some particular question
need not induce any one to jump to an adverse
conclusion. W e have to consider the messages as a
whole and the surrounding circumstances, under
which they are received. Our discarnate friends can­
not for various reasons stand the test of the severe
cross examination, as we would have it in a court of
law. W e would do infinitely better if asked to prove
our identity during our earthly life, but the glimpses
that we get occasionally are sure to make,a reasonable
man ponder over them, and admit the spirit-hypothesis
as a working theory.
In our observations on one occasion m y father
O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 37
while communicating with me was requested to men­
t i o n something to prove his identity, ^hereupon he
said “W here are the sons o f Sakharam ? lh is was
a verv striking question, because I had not the least
thought about that gentleman, and Mrs. Eiski of
course knew nothing about him. In fact I was led to
think of some other gentleman when he mentioned
this name. But he set me right by mentioning other
facts This was certainly a striking _piece _of
evidence, but if I were to insist upon his writing
down some Mantras from Vedas because he was a
thorough Vaidic Brahmin, I am sure he would fail to do
so Judging from my own experience 1 can say that
although I have studied so many subjects for m y
examinations, I remember very few of their details.
They have receded far below in my brain cells and
I cannot now recall them. W e must bear these and
several other principles in mind when we question the
spirits about their identity. Ih e best method of
acquiring a knowledge of spiritualism is to bring
reasoning to bear on the subject and arterwards to
confirm it by experiments.
Besides the contents -of the message, the exis­
tence of a spirit is sometimes strikingly demonstrated
by trivial points, which incontrovertibly prove that
some extraneous entity must have produced the
phenomena. A familiar spirit who used to come
to communicate once a week advised her rela­
tives to bring her child one day m_ the seance
room. After receiving some communications from
her we were going to close the sitting by the usual
tilts of the Table. But it would not m ove,w h ich
was rather uncommon. W hen asked whether she
had anything further to say, the table at once gave
38 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
two tilts indicating affirmation. It was then pointed
out on the Ouija Board that her relations should not
forget to bring the child as suggested. Such incidents-
though trivial go a great way in proving the identity
of the spirit.
The opponents of spiritualism often try to-
attribute spirit-messages to the subconscious self of
the sitters forming the circle. Experience alone can
show whether the theory of subconscious self is right
or wrong, and it has shown it to be wrong, for it
proves by the most positive facts that the thoughts
expressed may not only be alien to that of the persons
present, but in opposition to it contradicting their
preconceived ideas, and disappointing their expe­
ctations.
X X X
OUR DUTY TOWARDS THE DEAD
The spread of spiritualism is greatly hampered by
the ignorance of the people and the apathy of leaders in
the country. A student of this knowledge has to unlearn
many things and give up several mistaken notions for
its right comprehension. Very few persons are un­
fortunately, so liberal-minded, and the result is that
most of our countrymen fail to understand the subject
and its importance. They find it far more convenient
to cling to their mistaken ideas than to open their eyes
and analyse the phenomena which they see before
them. Some of them have not even the leisure to
spare a few hours to communicate with their beloved
dead. The ridicule and fear of public opinion which are
generally associated with this subject are some of the
greatest handicaps in the growth of this movement.
O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 39
it seems the spirits are far more eager and
anxious to communicate with their friends on earth
than the latter. Their eagerness to communicate
sometimes prevents the success of a seance, as
every one of them desires to convey his message
to his friends on earth. Incorrect messages are bound
to come if many persons try to speak through a
telephone at one and the same time. Similarly
the unruly ardour of spirits does at times mar the
success of a seance.
Editors and contributors to newspapers write
lengthy articles about the supposed views of a depar­
ted leader. These imaginary word-pictures are no
doubt a pleasant reading, but they do not represent his
real ideas. The readers peruse such contributions with
zest and nobody cares for truth. The departed leader
in whose memory these contributions are published
might surely be resenting this misuse of his name.
Inspite of the fact that there is a way by which
we can know their correct ideas, our ignorance,
apathy and misconceptions prevent us from going
along the right path.
Some of our political leaders fail in their duty in
this matter of vital importance. After having atten­
ded the seances and being well-impressed by the
results they do not use their influence in any way to
facilitate the spread of this knowledge. The spirits
deplore this apathy of their friends and have expressly
said so in some of our seances. They yearn to com­
municate with us but are unable to do so without our
cooperation.
The experiences in our seances showed their
intense interest in political affairs also. They know of
40 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
things far more than we do and can communicate with
us from time to time. It is our sacred duty to turn
our attention to this neglected branch of human
knowledge, if not for any altruistic purpose at least
for our earthly interests and for the very love which
we profess to have for our departed friends and
relatives.
This is not a subject of mere academical interest
as some may be led to think. W estern researchers
have made wonderful progress even in this matter
which was once supposed to be our pre-eminent
heritage, and they confidently claim to master it just
as they are doing in other scientific subjets. Let us not
be lethargic, iudifferent, or put forth sham excuses.
A s the spirits say the day seems not far distant when
our efforts will be crowned with success.
One of the greatest misconcaptions about spirit
communication is that we are disturbing the spirits by
trying to get into touch with them. W e have repea­
tedly pointed out that this is an erroneous belief and
there is not the least evidence in spiritualist literaure
' to justify the view.
X X X
O N THE MEANS OF COMMUNICATION,
The experiences recorded in this volume have been
obtained on the Ouija Board through the mediumship
of Mrs. Bishi. It consists of a polished board with
letters of the alphabet and numerals up to ten printed
thereon and a pointer. The pointer is made of thin
wood, shaped somewhat like a heart and it has three
short legs attached there to. Its size enables one to
grasp it with the hand or to allow the fingers of two
persons to rest lightly upon the top. W hen the
O
C
C
A
S
IO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S 41
proper conditions have been established, the hand or
the fingers o£ two persons using it unconsciously
•cause the pointer to glide over the board which may
rest upon a low table or upon a lap of one of the
users. Then the pointer moves without the deliberate
intention of the sitters over the letters which the
unseen influence chooses. These are recorded and
they constitute the communication. Some mediums
-obtain communications blindfolded, so that another
person has to read the letters. W e work normally
and note down the letters. W hen thus at work, we
speak to our spirit-friends aloud in a conversational
manner as if they are visibly present.
This seems a very simple and easy way of
■obtaining communications, but it is very undesirable
to attempt to get into touch with the spirit-world in
this or any other manner without some preparatory
knowledge about the subjeet. So fully convinced are
we about it, that we deem it a waste of time to help
those who do not take the trouble of getting some
.idea about the principles and methods of spirit-
communication.
Intercourse with the other world, though possible
is not easy, and we have to make allowance for
various factors which impede the free flow of
messages. The success of a seance usually depends
upon the co-operation of the sitters, medium and the
invisible entities helping from the other side. The
medium has been defined as a person who acts as an
intermediary between this world and the next. The
individual gifted with the necessary psychic power
acts as the joining link between the two states of
existence. His or her importance can never be
42 O
C
C
A
SIO
N
A
L C
O
N
T
R
IB
U
T
IO
N
S
exaggerated. The person can very well be compared
to a telescope in spiritualistic observations. The
power does not depend upon age, sex or even a man’s
temperament, and there is no outward sign, so far
known by which its existence can in any way be
perceived. The only way to test it is to admit the
person in a seance and see how far he or she is
helpful in obtaining communications. The power is
latent in several persons and can be developed by
proper guidance.
Although the identity of a spirit needs to be
established in accordance with the laws of spiritualism
the experimenters will do well to bear in mind th at.
there is a distinct improvement in writing if they
proceed on the assumption that the desired spirit has
come, but cannot properly communicate owing to
adverse conditions. On the other hand the results
are discouraging if the experimenter all along assumes
an attitude of scepticism and lack of regard for the-
eommunicatting entity. One has to work patiently
for a period which varies with different individuals,-
according to the latent psychic power.
CHAPTER II
Talks With SubhadrabaL
It is pretty well-known that my interest in
Spiritualism and all that it stands for, commenced
after the passing over of my wife Subhadrabai.
Those who have read m y book u Subhadra or life
after death” will be able to know the whole story of
m y quest, and the evidence that I could gather rega­
rding her continued existence and affection. She is
m y most frequent communicator and hardly fails to
attend every morning. The .following experiences will
enable the readers to know the further proofs rega­
rding her unabated love and interest in earthly affairs.
Some may think that she is, as it were, being dragged
behind by these continued talks and intermittent
visits. But there is not the least evidence to support
the view, as can be gathered from her statements as
well as of those with whom I had the pleasure o f
conversing. She has progressed much in her sphere
and has been of great help to those who are interested
in this subject.
UNEXPECTED VISITS.
An interesting feature of the experiment on one
occasion was that when she was asked whe­
ther she had any message for me, she told me to
hold the seance that day at 3 p. m. Exactly at that
hour she was present and communicated with me
through Table-tilting. The readers will be interested
to know that I tried the experiment alone as M rs.
Bishi was not in Bombay. It took a pretty long
■44 T
A
L
K
S W
ITH SU
B
H
A
D
R
A
B
A
I
time for me to get any indication, unaided as I was
.at that hour by the psychic power of Mrs. Rishi.
Still the response did come and I felt convinced about
the involuntary movements of the I able. Sometimes
it used to lean towards me with great force
indicating her sentiments and persistent desire to
.communicate with me. I did not care to try even
Automatic writing that time and quite enjoyed the
•conversation. Those who make light of this method
will do well to note that what we are concerned with,
is the contents of the massage and not the manner of
receiving it. Typtology as it is commonly called, is
a means of communication like any other, and is no
.more unworthy of elevated spirits than writing or
speaking. A ll spirits good or bad may employ this
method as well as any other.
During the couple of days preceding the experi-
-ences recorded above my mind was greatly uneasy
for various reasons, and it seemed from all the
■communications received in that short period, that
she was invisibly present there for a longer
time than she is wont to do. The communications
were not long, but she managed to demonstrate her
existence more often and evinced her unfailing love.
Owing to unavoidable circumstances, we had
hardly any opportunity of communicating with
.Subhadrabai for one week. Saturday afternoon when
we had a sitting she came with her usual promptness
.and said “ I was waiting throughtout the week to
talk with you. Of course X know your difficulties,
.and hence would not blame you for the delay. I
used to come unfailing by every day just to see you.”
These experiences, irrefutably show her continued
.-existence and affection.
T
A
L
K
S W
ITH SO
B
H
A
D
R
A
B
A
I 4r
In an experiment in Poona which was specially
held for getting into touch with the wife of a gentle­
man, Subhadrabai was the first to communicate
although we never expected her at that time. She
said “ I have come just to inquire why you did not
have a talk with me this morning.” It was a fact
that I did not try to converse with her that
morning as I was in a hurry to proceed to Poona.
But it seems that she earnestly desired that I should
not fail'to spare a few minutes for such a conversation.
Her persistent interest and continued affection,
were strikingly demonstrated in a seance one day.
Usually she does not attend our evening seances
and even if she be present allows other spirits
to communicate with their friends in the circle. But
on one occasion she was the first to indicate her
presence and wrote a short message by my hand as
Mrs. Bishi was out of Bombay. Another sitter
helped me in Automatic 'writing and she wrote a brief
communication by my hand asking me to sit again
next morning. She said that she had accompanied
me to Nasik as promised. This was the particular
reason vrhy she as it were forced herself in the seance.
During the tour in Mysore she used to commni-
cate in the morning seances whenever we found it
convenient to hold them. She showed her usual
interest in our activities and accompanied us when we
attempted the experiments for other persons. One
morning she found it rather difficult to convey her
thoughts freely which greatly puzzled us. A few
hours after the experiment we had to sit for another
gentleman when to our great ¡surprise she intimated
her presence and stated that site waft, there at that
46 TA
LK
S W
ITH SU
B
H
A
D
R
A
B
A
I
time because sbe could not express her ideas in the
morning. Generally she does not communicate when
we try for others, but the morning experience must
have induced her to say a few words that time.
Other spirits could communicate after she had finished
her message.
Usually Subhadrabai is not present at the evening
seances, and if she does come she does not make her
presence felt in any way, But one evening when a
spirit aws asked whether there was anybody else he
said “ There is a lady, but I do not know her. M y
friend (another spirit) knows her and he will tell.”
W hen the latter was asked about it he said “ She is
Subhadrabai. She has come only to see but she
won’t write now. She will do so tomorrow morning.”
STRIKING CORROBORATIONS.
After the attempts for indirect evocations she is
sometimes asked the description of the features of
the communicating spirit. The information thus
obtained is conveyed to the persons concerned, who
intimate the accuracy or otherwise of such descri­
ptions. W e have to make allowance for various
factors in determining the accuracy of the statement.
In a few seances like these she described the appearance
of the entities that had come there, and her statements
have been to a large extent confirmed by the relatives
of the spirits. After giving a detailed description of
the features of a lady she said that she (Spirit)
was fond of music, had a charming manner of speech
and had a mark near the neck. The gentleman rela­
ted to the spirit wrote that this was quite correct, but
the mark near the neck was not there. W hen the
TA
LK
S W
ITH SU
B
H
A
D
R
A
B
A
I 47
discrepancy was referred to Subhadrabai she said that
the spirit showed the mark near the root of her hair
and hence she had stated like that. It is just possible
that the gentleman might be unaware of the tiny
spot near the hair. In another instance also the
father of a deceased son admited the description as
quite accurate.
RECOGNISING OLD SPIRITS-'
In a seance she was asked as to how it was
possible to recognise spirits who had passed over
long ago. She stated that several times they had to
acquaint themselves to their newly departed relatives,
as the latter very frequently had no recollection
regarding them. The information was confirmed
by Oka, in his messages. • He added that some
spirits who had developed their powers could assume
the same appearance which their relatives had in their
memory.
APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS.
Regarding the appearance of a spirit she once
stated that all classes of spirits the highest as
well as the lowest could become visible but they had
not always the permission or the wish to do so. The
object of their manifestation depends upon their
nature which may be good or bad.
NOTABLE INCIDENTS.
Usually Subhadrabai gives her messages only in
our seances, but during one week she could not fully
express her ideas owing to Mrs. Rishi’s absence from
Bombay. Two of our members tried to get into
touch with her on Monday when she was reported to
48 T
A
LK
S W
ITH SU
B
H
A
D
R
A
B
A
I
have given the following brief but characteristic-
message. She said “ Ask him not to be anxious.’*
The message was received on Monday when as a
matter of fact, I was greatly anxious on account o f
not having heard anything from Mrs. Kishi and had
wired to her about it. The gentleman had of course-
mot the least idea about these matters and the fact
that she gave the above communication on that day
shows , her deep concern in earthly matters. She
subsequently confirmed the message in her later
communications.
She used to communicate in morning seances in
Calcutta almost everyday and attended the meetings-
which were arranged for propagating the cause.
One morning a peculiar incident happened while she
was conversing with us. In the course of her talks she
spontaneously said {,W ho is this lady here? She says
that she will talk with her husband” . This was very
striking and quite unexpected. I could immediately
imagine that the spirit to whom she referred must be
the wife of a Parsi gentleman who was sitting in the
adjoining hall reading some books on spiritualism.
His spirit-wife had on previous occasions communi­
cated with him and might have come with the idea
of having farther talks with her beloved husband.
The gentleman was glad to know the unexpected
appearance of his wife and stated that simultaneously
he also felt her presence in the hall. Subsequently
the lady communicated on the Ouija-Board and had
to be helped bp the spirit-father of the gentleman for
conveying her ideas.
PREMATURE DEATHS.
It is sometimes thought that many persons
T A L K S W IT H S U B H A D R A B A I 49
die at a premature age. This is a vexed question and
different views are expressed about it by different
individuals. She when asked about this point, stated
that the time of death is fixed, and nothing could
change it. Her views were confirmed by Oka in
subsequent seances.
MEMORIALS.
It was once pointed out by Subhadrabai that
spirits attach very little importance to earthly for­
malities and decorations. Their real selves are not
in their graves, or pictures, or any other things of
memory, and hence, they do not feel interested in
whatever we do with regard to these things. W e,
owing to our ignorance make much of such earthly
objects, and fail to realise that thereby we are neglec­
ting the substance and running after the shadow.
The photograph of Subhadrabai which is kept in our
room was one day surrounded with flowers to express
m y feeling of endearment. When she was asked as
to what she felt about it, she made the remarks men­
tioned above. It is very essential that the world
should realise this grand truth, as thereby our
outlook regarding the universe will be entirely
changed.
Some of the readers might be knowing that
Subhadrabai passed over at Miraj as a result of an
unsuccessful operation. An idea occurred to me to
have a stone-slab fixed on the room in the Hospital
in which she breathed her last. I wrote to the Su­
perintendent of the Hospital about the mattter, and
he kindly consented to it. Subhadrabai when asked/
about it said that she did not feel much interested in
it, as she was not now in the room.
50 T A L K S W IT H S U B H A D R A B A I 1
FOREKNOWLEDGE
In connection with the proposed memorial at Miraj
she expressed that the plan would not be successful.
This was said at the time when the correspondence
was going on with the Superintendent of the Hospital
regarding the matter and I was very hopeful about
it. But to my great surprise and regret, conditions
were imposed at the last moment, which necessitated
the abandonment of the idea.
DREAM EXPERIENCES.
When asked about the appearance of spirits in
dreams she stated as follows. “ A ll have not the power
to manifest themselves in dreams, notwithstanding
your desire to see them. This is due to causes
which are independent of their will. The appeara­
nce of living persons in dreams is almost always due
to one’s own imagination. All persons can see spirits
during dreams. The soul or rather the etheric-body
in that state can see without any intermediary ; but
when you are awake it is always influenced
by the physical body. This is why the conditions
are not quite the same when you are awake as in
sleep. Besides, all cannot carry back the impressions
after waking up. Take your own case for instance.
The faculty of seeing spirits can like all other faculties
be developed and the spirits can be touched when
they become visible to you.”
Another spirit said about meeting in dreams that
she was afraid of coming over because she might
commit mistakes in the other world as a result of the
distraction of her mind. Her husband was very
anxious to have her vision in sleep, failing which she
gave the above explanation for her absence.
T A L E S W IT H S U B H A D R A B A I 51
Generally I do not remember my dreams in spite
of m y ardent desire to do so. It seems that I am
lacking the necessary retentive power and my brain
cannot carry back the impressions in my waking
consciousness. But once I had a very clear recollec­
tion o£ having seen and conversed with Subhadrabai
in' sleep. On having consulted her next morning she
stated in her message that she was present at the
time and the memory was not a mere freak o£ ima­
gination or due to some physical cause.
A gentleman closely related to us saw his father
in a dream when he looked much fatigued and rather
crippled. In a seance held subsequently Subhadrabai
was asked whether she had seen the spirit, and i£ so,
whether he had any bodily infirmity. She gave the
information next day after making inquiries that the
spirit in qusetion had some pain in his legs and hence
he looked crippled, but as a matter of fact he had no
ailment of any sort. She added that he looked very
old and she "had some difficulty in recognising him,
although she had seen him some time before.
One morning she asked the following question
without my having any idea about it. She said
“ I met you last night at 2 a. m. W hat have you
decided about going to the Himalayas? I had a long
talk with you at that time regarding the matter.” It
is interesting to note that during the preceding two
days I was dicussing the matter and thought that it
would be worthwhile to visit the Himalayas with a
view to study the psychic phenomena there. Pro­
bably the same conversation might have taken place
with her in my sleeping state of which of course, I
was not aware, until she herself narrated the expe­
rience to me.
52 T A L K S W IT H S U B H A D R A B A I
INDIFFERENCE TO WORLDLY THINGS.
A glass case was made to accomodate her
bust and lighting arrangement was also made
therein. When asked about it she expressed “ I feel
nothing regarding such matters. I was averse to put
on even gold ornaments while living. How can I
now feel interested in these things ? ” These expres­
sions are very characteristic and rightly denote her
mentality.
REMINDER.
During a Diwali festival we missed one morning
whereupon she reminded us of our omission and
asked “ W hy did you not remember me at the
breakfast ? ”
“ I used to have Diwali very often. Yesterday
balls of sweetmeat were prepared. W h y did you
not reserve a dish for me ? ” This was rather un­
usual on her part as she scarcely expresses any desire
like that. W ith a view to rectify the inadvertent
error it was suggested that she should come that day
so that we might do the needful. But she refused to
do so and added that the balls of sweetmeat have
become stale. With much persuasion she consented
to attend next day, provided new balls were made.
She stated the time and place where the dish was to
be kept and promised to be there for an hour.
REPEATED VISITS.
■ One morning after a pretty long talk in the
usual way she was again reported to be present at a
sitting held at the house of another gentleman. W e
were told by the communicating spirit that along with
others she was also present and accompanied us all
T A L K S W IT H S t'B H A D R A B A I 53
the way. This was of course quite surprising to us as
well as all the sitters, and we could not understand the
reason of her presence there. When asked about it
the communicating spirit stated that there was no
particular reason for her coming and she would
explain it next morning. W e could imagine the
motive that might have prompted her to do so as she
was rather uneasy by some domestic events and hence
might have thought it desirable to accompany us
thither.
' She was again present in the evening seance that
day and stated that she would explain next morning
the reason of her repeated visits.
Early in the morning she gave a long explana­
tion about her uneasiness on the preceding day-
The messages were replete with all sorts of sentiments
and abundant references were made by her to
incidents in her life-time. For a long period she had
not been so communicative, and I was constantly
pressing her to give detailed messages about her
feelings. She was possibly awaiting for some occasion
to do so and fully opened her mind. In fact she seemed
so moved by several circumstances that she would
not like the idea of our making the attempt for
indirect invocation that time. She thought that it
would be a hindrance to her flow of messages and
allowed us to do so with great reluctance. The whole
experiment was perhaps one of the best of her talks
which we are having with her.
CHAPTER III
OKA’S COMMUNICATIONS.
Besides those who were near and dear tons while
living we occasionally get into touch with others who
were never known to us in their earthly existence.
Some of them help the sitters in their own way and
act as Guides in these experiments. This is the
experience all over the world and the Guides of famous
mediums like Mrs. Estalle Roberts and Mrs. Morris
are quite familiar to those who are in touch -with the
spiritualist movement. They come at the opportune
time with a view to help those who are seeking
more light and knowledge.
W e have the good fortune of securing the
co-operation of such a Guide who was known as Oka
in this world. More than a dozen years ago he
made his first appearance and has since then been
constantly in touch with us. He has described his
life-story to a certain extent which indeed is very
interesting. But his spirit-existence is far more
wonderful than his earthly career. He has by his
various virtues of head and heart endeared himself
to all who had the pleasure of listening to his talks.
He is very truthful and obliging. His style is full
of humour and inimitable. The internal evidence
indicating his identity is so strong that his presence
can never be doubted or denied. The story of our
experiences would be incomplete without a special
reference to his visits. Some of the numerous talks
which we could have with him are given below.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
l ik in g FOR f l o w e r s .
55
Boses were brought by a sitter at a seance, as
desired by a spirit-friend, and were kept on a table
in our room. When we sat for communication, he
was the first to manifest himself and he made the
seance-table walk a few steps ^ e n the sitters were
simply touching it very lightly with their finders*
The table moved toward &the place where the rosea
were kept, and halted touching the dish containing
the flowers. When it was taken back to the original
position he said ‘ 'Look here, I alone i d ^ 4 «
flnwers There are three other spirits also. h.eep
t C flowers beneath the table. (W hen this was done
he6 expressed his satisfaction ) ^
were not going to come, but I asked them to do so.
On one occasion when roses were brought m the
seance room as desired by him he said Yes, 1
S l e d you for nothing. But there were others
also to share with me.
“ These are real roses. They are the queen of
flowers. In -our region there are very beautiful
flowers which are rare to find on the earth Generally
w e hke)} fragrant things because thereby we are
pleased. ” ({
A t the end of a sitting he remarked ‘ To day
there is an abundance of flowers. Yon have brought
so many although I had asked none to do so. This
statement was made by him with reference to the
roseS which were brought by the sitters. Then
followed a couplet bearing on the same point. He
said " I have not got a plant at my place, still I get
flowers like showers. ”
56 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
UNEXPECTED MESSAGES,
One evening he gave a very interesting and
unexpected message. He said “ Last Wednesday
while I was practising meditation, I had told others
to awaken me soon. (Dr. Ezekiel, one of the sitters
began to laugh at this statement.) Thereupon he
interrupted and stated “ Oh, do not laugh, I am a
beginner and hence have to tell others to awaken me
after meditation. I can soon become unconscious in
meditation, but cannot wake up so quickly and hence
had told others to awaken me. But as I was sitting
in a dark corner of the temple, they all went away
after finishing their work, and I woke up by the
sound of the Bhajan ( Prayer accompanied with
music.) I could not come here until it was finished,
and hence I came hurriedly at 10 p. m., but there
was nobody in the room. After a short time
Subhadrabai also came, and I was surprised to see
her at that hour. 1 thought that perhaps it might
be my mistake to come at that time, but the whole
mystery was solved when she stated that she had not
come for any special purpose.” The message indi­
cates the duties of spirits, the similarity in several
respects between this world and the next, and the
unknown visits of our invisible friends.
Addressing Mr. Jamnadas Metha who was
present one evening at a seance he said “ All must
try for the mother-land. On our side also, I have
seen some resolute-minded persons coming with
uneasy minds.” That evening he managed to move
the seance table towards the side on which the tray
of roses was placed. The table was tilting with
great force, and would not go down even though
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 57
pressed from the opposite direction. The sitters
were of course simply touching it lightly with their
fingers. The peculiarity of his communications is
that sometimes he moves the table violently in all
directions, but occasionally when it pleases him to do
so, he gives such gentle tiltes that any one is sure
to mark the difference. These mannerisms are very
noteworthy and greatly impress the sitters.
On one occasion addressing Dr. Ezekiel, a sitter, he
used high sounding language and said “ I had come
to you three days before with two more spirit friends.
Y ou should have sat for twenty minutes because
that is the limit for knowing whether some one has
come or not. If you had waited for five minutes
more, you would have got the response. ”
REFERENCE TO HIGHER SPIRITS.
There is a hierarchy of spirits one above the
other and the denizens of the other world sometimes
refer to them on some important points. They have
got also the same idea about time and space as we
have here on earth. When asked about this point
he stated the same fact, and in his own characteristic
way drew a triangle describing his habitation in
the other world. He empahtically asserted that
every thing in the other world was constitutionally
different from that on earth.
APPRECIATION By OTHER SPIRITS.
Regarding Oka, another spirit spoke in very
flattering terms. He said u This man is very honest „
and noble- He was always praying and praying.“'
He was seeking me the whole day. When he cam® to
me I was in the temple. I am not yet much 'free. -
I can come to your house but after some time- ”
58 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
A spirit while communicating with his relative
voluntarily wrote “ Look, look, he is com ing.” When
asked what he meant by that he replied “ M y friend,
Oka.” These expressions show how Oka is loved
by other spirits, and how voluntarily he sometimes
attends our seances. The communicating spirit told
us that Oka had rendered him great services by
freeing him from the troubles of other malevolent
entities in the next world.
Later on Oka himself began to write and refused
to be thanked for what he had done and said that he
regarded it as his duty. He added that he was doing
all his work disinterestedly and advised others to do
the same. When we explained our difficulties in
following his advice he gave a long sermon emphasi­
sing the need of doing so. According to him
malevolent spirits could be found up to the third
plane, but they cannot go higher. Those in the
upper regions can visit the lower ones, and they
sometimes are molested while passing through the
latter. His advice was confirmed by Subhadrabai
in her messages on subsequent occasions.
A LEVITATION EXPERIMENT.
One evening he was present, but other spirits
were requested to communicate first, 'as -their
friends in the circle were anxious to talk with them.
When his turn came he began in his characteristic
way. “ How funny it is ! Although I came first, I
had to be the last to communicate; never mind. I had
come with full leisure. I tried hard for your
(Ezekiel’s ) work. But what can I do? I am confused
because it is all in English and half here and half there.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 59
The second point is about P. The spirit that created
the trouble there is very near the earth. It seems to-
be a wandering spirit. I have commenced to teach
Abraham to pray by counting beads. He was greatly
laughing at me.”
A t this time Mr. T. B. Khare one of our old
members entered the room when Oka offered him
his salutations by pointing out the indicator to the
word <
c Salutation ” on the Board. That was very
peculiar and means much to a keen observer. He said
to Mr. lihare“ W ill you call me tomorrow morning in
your meditation? But I would like to have a garland
of flowers.”
The seance was very important in several ways.
A t the outset when the table began to tilt violently
and it was learnt that he was present, he was requested
to lift all the legs of the table. He made such-
desperate attempts to lift them, that three times it
whirled round with great jerks under the hands of
the sitters. It was a phenomenon worth seeing for
any sceptic, who would surely have had to think
about the matter.
After the tussle with the table Oak said “ Hush,
please wait a little. I am much fatigued.” In accor­
dance with his desire we waited a while and then,
proceeded with further writing, when he said “ Our
bodies are real and substantial to us. W e feel our
pinch if we do so by our own fingers. W e cannot
see both worlds at one and the same time. For
instance, look at the window. (Here the indicator
on the Ouija Board moved towards the window in
our room.) Can you see outside and inside through
•60 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
it at the same time? It is something like that. We
have not to do any thing for being able to see both
ways. What I mean is that one cannot do so.”
Q :— Are there any other spirits?
A :— Subhadrabai and a Parsi gentleman are here.
Subhadrabai then wrote as follows: “ I and
•Oka were waiting since half-past four. I suggested
the above illustration of a window to him. W hy
should I make other spirits wait, when I am a daily
visitor? That is the reason why I don’t write at
this hour.” (Although the sitters were the same,
the manner of writing was entirely different from
that of Oka.)
AN INSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE.
One evening when we had hardly sat for two
minutes the table began to move violently and
indicated that he had come. He seemed to be in a
specially communicative mood that time and stated
•as follows:
“ I know that you will not allow me to rest.
I had specially sent Kalambikar (another spirit) to
•convey the message. But no, I had to come.”
■Q:— W e did not ask him to send you.
A :— But he said “ Go soon. You are called.”
Q:— What about the work ? ( This referes to a
matter which he was asked to inquire.)
A :— I simply inspired others and prayed that it must
be done. I have done my duty. I am of opinion that
it will be successful. You will know it next week.
‘Q :— W hat about the vision in the seance on
"Wednesday?
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
61
A — It was I. Did you see the cross pigment-mark
on m y forehead? It is white. Is ext tune I shall
wear a Dhoti.
q .__ But why do you have the pigment-mark?
A :— It is necessary for holiness. Brahmins must
have it. Although it is true that there are no caste-
distinctions here still it is considered desirable foi
every one to follow his religion or religious obser­
vances. No body is compelled to do that, but the
tedency to do so arises in his heart. Y ou will ask
“ How* do they act who were not following them
while living?” But I tell you that those very
persons on coming here begin to do all these things
regularly, as the tedency to do so is awakened m
them If any time they fail to do that, they them­
selves come to know of their mistake, and take care
of not repeating it. I am telling this from self-
experience, because it is not that I was doing all this
while living; but now every thing happens automa-
Beallv I have forgotten to say one thing that this-
doe not apply to all. Here it is obligatory to act m
accordance with one’s religious thoughts and ideas on
the physical plane.”
Q._—What about me, as I am not following your
religion ? CAsked by a sitter.}
A :-— On coming here you will do what is ordained
by your religion in a greater degree.
A sitter said “ W e are very thankful to you for your
communication.” Thereupon he expressed So a m i
Because you ofEer me the opportunity to express
m y thoughts. Otherwise was it not impossible? Is
it not right what I say ?
'62 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
Q :— May we hope to succeed in our mission.
A :— God alone can do that. W e can only pray.
Again he was present on one evening and said
■
“ W hat is the news? I tried m y utmost. I expressed
m y joy by violently moving the table because I was
partly successful in m y attempt to become visible.
( This refers to the attempt for clairvoyance before
commencing the writing on the Ouija-Board ) We
two are here. I and my friend ( Your brother )
'•Q:— W hy could not Dr. Ezekiel see you?
A :— I was trying, but he did not concentrate properly.
Fix your mind. Consider that no one is near you.
I have as yet to tell you something. W hat were you
discussing before? Dr. Abraham (Spirit) has told me
about it. W hat more explanation do you want on
that point? (This refers to our discourse before the
commencement of the seance. W e were discussing
his replies about caste-distiction in the spirit-world.)
Religious differences must be observed; otherwise it
will be difficult to recognise the different castes. The
■differences are not observed in other matters here.
Q :— W ill you please help in removing a spirit-
trouble?
A :— Yes very gladly. To-morrow I shall come to
your house with some of your deceased relatives.
Let me see then who prevents them. Keep four
chillis and fire ready. You sit at 6 p. m. and wait
for ten minutes. If the trouble commences then
throw them in the fire, and try again after they are
hurnt away. W e shall be there, and see who it is
that troubles.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
63
Q :— Gan you tell us something about the figures
■who take away the person at death?
A :— They are human, but can assume the form in
accordance with the individual’s actions.
AN EXPERIMENT FOR SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.
An attempt was once made to photograph our
■spirit-friends. Two plates were exposed, one as
desired by the spirits and the other m the ordinary
way. The former was found to have two clear »pots
near the sitters, indicating the eyes of a *Pm t- ,
photograph was taken by one of our members andthe
development was done by him m the u»ual way.
There was absolutely no reason why the two spots
should have come like that. There was darkness also
behind the sitters and the spots have appealed on the
hUoV background. An interesting feature about the
one day Oka voluntarily wrote
“ Did you notice my two eyes m the pkotogi a | *^
This was really surprising as _none ol the sitteis
expected this question from him, and clearly shows
the genuineness of the phenomena.
CONFUSION IN TEMPLE.
In one seance we asked him some questions
™ir s / ra. B
was a pretty long message and we weie going t
postpone it 'till the next sitting; but he would not
■allow it The indicator on the Board was practically
running over the Board pointing out letter by letter
64 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
while Dr. Ezekiel and Mrs. Rishi were touching it.
The message was very instructive and throws muck
light on the condition of the next world. He said
“ You see I had been to the temple yesterday and sat
there quietly. As I heard some noise outside I
wished to see what it was. Hardly had I got up
when our Superior came there. I could neither go
nor stay. How could I go when he was standing in
the door? When the noise seemed to be far-off he
turned towards me. I acted as if I was busily enga­
ged in prayer; but it was very difficult to get up.
I was standing there silently but could not manage
to keep up the appearance. He came near me. 1
must state here at the outset, so that you may readily
understand it, that there is a rule with us that after
entering the temple nobody should go out for any
reason without finishing his work. Do you under­
stand? How begin again from where 1 left before..
He said “ W hat were you thinking about? Did.you
intend to go out? W hy did you stop then? Don’t
you know what happens by going out leaving the
work unfinished? One has to go out for good. Then
I was a little confused. I managed to show my igno­
rance of this rule. Then he was a little pacified.
And I was asked to follow several rules. The result
was that I had to stay there for full two hours, for a
work which could have been finished within ten
minutes; and I had to do m y daily duties also in
addition. Therefore I state by personal experience
that no one should try to do something else while
engaged in doing one work.
This is indeed a very strange message and the
manner in which it was received quite proves its
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 65
genuineness. Such messages can be received only from
enthusiastic spirit-friends like Oka, and it would be
idle to expect the same from every spirit.
In the above message he stated that he managed
to show ignorance of the rule of the other world.
This was rather puzzling and some persons thought
that it amounted to deception on his part, When he
was asked about this point in the next seance he
explained as follows:— “ Showing does not amount
to speaking. However great a man may be some­
times all of a sudden out of strange fear a momentary
sensation is produced in him by circumstances
without any effort on his part. W hat of an insigni­
ficant man like myself then? So taking into
consideration this circumstance he (Superior) had to
behave like that; because if he were to give m e a
severe punishment without explaining any thing, the
result will be quite the contrary. So we are excused
twice, and are punished on the third occasion.”
CAN SPIRITS SEE THOUGHTS ?
One evening he was asked as to whether he
could see thoughts. He replied that neither their
colours nor their vibrations were visible to him, but
he can see lines of thoughts emanating from the
human brain. This was confirmed by Subhadrabai
and she added that it depends upon the powers
of different spirits.
TRACING AN UNKNOWN SPIRIT.
The difficulty in finding out an unknown spirit
was realised in one seance by him. He was requested
to get into touch with a spirit whose name, surname
and photograph was shown to him. In spite, of all
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
66
these details he said on a subsequent date as follows
“ Although I asked for so much time, still it was of
no avail. I inquired at almost all places. I cannot
bring him, if he be in higher regions, because^ the
denizens of lower regions are generally not allowed to
visit the higher ones. I inquired up to Tapo holm,
but was helpless after that. Now all of you try to
invoke him directly, so that if he be m the next
world, he would certainly respond to your prayer
According to his suggestion an attempt was made,
and the spirit did respond to our call. _He refused
to write that day, but promised to write next time
after about a fortnight. He was asked about his
will and gave some advice to his relatives who were
present in the Circle. He would not speak with Oka
also and hence it was not possible to know more
from him. Begarding this point Oka said next day
that the spirit w a s quite unwilling to say anything
about his will. Although he did not talk with him,
(Oka) still he (Oka) could gather this from his
sullen face.
ATTEMPTS FOR PSYCHOGRAPHY-
The faces of discarnate entities, or other pictures
and writings are sometimes obtained without expo­
sing the plate through a Camera.
An attempt was made for this phenomenon one
evening when Oka alone was present. The plate was
held between the hands by four sitters for about ten
minutes and he was asked to impress upon it either
his face or some writing. On developing, it was found
that the plate recorded no impression. The subsequent
experiment was much successful and we found on
the plate two white clouds after development.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 67
There was absolutely no reason for the appearance
of the clouds on it except the attempt of the spirits
to impress their faces on the negative. The third
attempt was remarkably successful and one half of the
plate was found covered with white cloud. During
the magnetisation, the hands of the sitters were auto­
matically moving in a circular way. Oka explained
this by saying that he managed to move the hands
in that manner in order to draw the necessary power.
TALKS WITH MR. KHARE.
Addressing Mr. Khare who had just entered the
room he said “ Salutations. Are you alright? That
day I purposely waited for you, but you went away.
I was going to tell that I would come in the morning.
Alright. I shall come tomorrow at 5 p. m. I do not
want the garland of flowers, but have some incense.
Your Guru (Departed) had come that time. I simply
saluted him. W h y should I speak of m y own accord?
I am not his equal. I would have got some new
information. How did Doctor not come? He is not
at home.”
EXPLAINING AN INTERROGATOR^ MARK.
In his communication one evening at first he
told all the persons in the room to sit down and be
comfortable. Then he wanted to point out the mark
of interrogation on the Ouija-Board. He used to
point out figure one and zero on the board. W e
could not follow it and many times read it as 10.
Then he made his meaning clear by asking us to put
the zero below the figure of one instead of after it.
This instantly explained the point and showed his
cleverness. Such incidents, though trifling by them­
selves go to show the intelligence of our unseen
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
68
friends. The theory of spirit-return is based on.
such experiences and not simply the .visual mani­
festations of the denizens of the next world.
QUESTIONS REGARDING FUTURE.
On one occasion in reply to the-question about
future he said “ W e tell you the information, as we
get it. If things do not happen as we say, it is due
to the change in circumstances. We try to get
information from other sources. W e do our duty.
You may say what you like. If you have no faith
in us, then find out some one from your world whom
you consider best. I had heard about such persons,
but I have no faith in'.them. He seemed a little
excited for the persistence about future.
b l u n d e r in j a p a .
In his communications one evening, he said
“ Recently I made a blunder in counting my Japa
(repetition of a Mantra.) The result was that I had
to do it thrice as much. Religious injunctions_ are
obligatory boro. The Mantra which I repeat is of.
thirteen syllables. The repetition of these Mantras
conduces 'to our upliftment.
His views about Japa were corroborated by
Subhadrabai and other spirits also.
PECULIAR EXPRESSIONS.
Those who have attended our seances know that
his individuality can never be mistaken. The way
in which he begins his messages is also very peculiar.
He always commences his writings by saluta­
tions. On one occasion he greatly interested the
sitters by the peculiarity of his style and expressions.
o a k ' s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 69
"Once it became very difficult to understand wbat he
meant by those expressions, and consequently he
himself had to explain the meaning of his expressions.
For instance he said that he was behind as well as
•ahead of another spirit. This was rather puzzling
and we could not follow his meaning. When this point
was referred to him he explained it by saying that he
was moving round and round the other spirit so that
sometimes he used to be ahead of him and some­
times behind him.
CALLING HIMSELF A HALF-MAN.
One evening he said “ You need not thank me
for all that I do for you. I do not deserve it, an
humble half-man as I am.” It was beyond our
comprehension to understand this expression. He
•explained it by saying that what I mean is I stay in
the other world and come to communicate in this
world and hence I say so.
COMMUNICATIONS IN DIFFERENT LANGUAGES.
It is sometimes observed that communications
are received in a language which the spirit did not
know during his life-time. Many people are confused
by this experience and fail to understand its reason.
O n one occasion he was asked about this point,
whereupon he gave a very instructive and lucid
message. He said £' This is generally done in two
ways. The first is to control the brain of the medium
by the spirit. But this requires much power for both.
They must be equally powerful. The other way is to
study the language in the next world. 'W hen once
the brain is controlled, all the nerves are thereby
affected. The control is of course temporary and
70 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
hence does not cause any harm to the medium.
Great responsibility o£ course lies upon the commu­
nicating spirit. How can they cause any harm? They
come out of great love to console you. They manage
it with care and never cause any harm to the me­
diums. It must be borne in mind that he alone who
is not afraid of any injury will dare to make these
efforts.
The last point could not be understood by the
sitters and we interpreted it in a way quite different
from what he meant. Thereupon he heartily lau­
ghed and stated that what he meant referred to the
denizens of the next world and not to those who
were living.”
The whole message was characteristic and showed
his usual intelligence.
On one occasion he said “ So long I used to
refer to others for giving any opinion or advice.
That caused many mistakes and my friends here
used to laugh at me for this. But now I am going
to develop my own powers so that I shall be saved
from the necessity of referring to others on each and
every point.”
His eagerness to communicate was remarkably
perceived in one seance when he said “ W h y shall I not
come when you are giving an opportunity of speak­
ing to dumb men like ourselves.” The epithet is
very appropriate and aptly shows the position of our
departed ones in the other world. They are as it
were dumb in as much as they cannot express their
ideas unless we facilitate their path by holding
seances etc. This is one of the main reasons why
the knowledge of spirit-communication should be
made popular and wide-spread.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 71
ANNOYANCE BY THE TOUCH OF A PLATE.
One evening lie was invoked specially to fix the
time for spirit-photography. Shortly after the in­
vocation the seance-table violently moved towards a
plate lying in the room. W e could not understand
the reason thereof. When asked to explain the cause
of the phenomena he said “ W h y did you keep the
plate here ? Don’t you know that it contains dirty
matter? While I was hurriedly coming in response to
your call I happened to touch it. Now I shall have to
bathe again. ” W e could not understand how the
physical plate could touch his etheric body and asked
him to explain the point. Thereupon he stated that
the air from the plate came in contact with his body
and that was what he meant by the touch of the
plate.
INFLUENCE OF CLOUDS ON COMMUNICATION.
It appears that a dull atmosphere makes it diffi­
cult for spirits to communicate. He observed about
this point on one occasion that there is a variety of
clouds such as dark and white. Black clouds make
the atmosphere heavy while moon-light night is
pleasant.
INTRODUCING A STRANGER.
On one evening he began his talk without the
usual salutation. Preceding the communication the
table moved violently and the sitters were quite
convinced of his coming. He began abruptly thus
“ He says that I am Bamrao. He is your ancestor.
He looks very old. He asks you to have a talk with
him. ( This refers to a person who was standing
outside the Circle, not taking part in the sitting ) I t
72 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
is interesting to note that even the name of the spirit
wishing to communicate with the gentleman who had
casually come there, was given on the Ouija Board
through persons who could have absolutely no idea
about it. The gentleman then joined the circle when
further messages followed. Oka had to act as his
interpreter as the spirit did not know Marathi or any
other language besides his dialect. Then Oka wrote:
“ The spirit says that I cannot write Marathi. I had
once casually heard your talk and so came here today
to see you (gentleman). Tell my family that I am
quite happy. I am free from all desires. Your father
is in the sixth plane and I am in the seventh. So I
don’t always meet him. Your wife will have to
suffer for some time more. She will be cured, but
will not be quite well. Peace. Peace. Peace.”
DISCOURSE ON GUIDES.
On one occasion he was asked about the strange
guides who occasionally control mediums or commu­
nicate through them. Thereupon he said “ The subject
can be divided into two parts. The first point is
that such persons ( guides ) are in search of indivi­
duals who are fit for this work. They then manifest
themselves by inspiring them ( mediums), who
are thereby encouraged to undertake such work.”
Next day he resumed his talk upon the same subject
and said “ It is necessary to have a natural tendency
for such work. Some difficulty is also experienced
in having the sort of persons whom you desire. The
balance cannot be even unless there are equal weights
on both sides. Although it is true that the discar-
nate great persons of antiquity are ignorant of these
matters, still they also think that they should have
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 73
conversation with, persons of equal rank. But I
consider this a mistake on their part. I am telling
this from the information gathered yesterday. It
does not refer to all spirits, because rarely all indi­
viduals act with uniform feelings. They must be
above this thing. Then again I may tell you that
persons who are here for ages have accomplished
these matters in a different way.”
Some persons are curious to know the name of
■Gurus (Governors) in the spirit-world. Oka and other
spirit-friends usually refuse to give the name but one
day when pressed about it he said “ W e call them
Brahmadnani (Versed in:the knowledge of Brahma),
but that is not their name.”
THOUGHTS ON A MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
.One evening a musical instrument was played
before the seance whereupon he made the following
observations. He was simply asked whether he
had anything to say about the instrument and the
music in the seance-room upon which he wrote a
long message. In fact he had to be brief as it was
getteng late. A s usual his manner of writing
greatly surprised the sitters. It is interesting to
note that during the playing of the instrument the
Indicator of the Ouija-Board would not at all move,
but a rapid conversation followed immediately after
its close. He said “ I thought that I was not to speak
in the middle. Let me hear the music once more.
Then I shall say a few words. Alright. Y ou see this
wall. (Here the Indicator moved towards a wall in
the room.) Is it not painted? Tell me how it looks.
How would it appear if it had been made of chunam
and earth only ? Which would look better ? This
or that? Suppose if four colours are put in four
74 o a k ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
different vessels, what would they be like P The
wall of the earth and chunam is number one,
the painted wall is number two, and our vessels
of colour is number three. Now suppose, we
draw a picture of those colours. How long will you
look at the colours only if I ask you to do so ? ( Cer­
tainly not for a long time ). Let me know how the
thin and thick colours will appear if a picture were
drawn of them exerting our intelligence, and I were
to ask you to have a look at them. (I have to explain
the matter, but shall be brief if you have no time.)
The conclusion is that the instrument which you just
played upon is also of the same type. It has become so
charming on account of the combination of five mate­
rials. Would it have been so if there had been merely
a plank, wires and buttons etc? What I mean to say
is human beings can accomplish anything by exer­
ting their brains. Now get up, ten minutes are over”
( He had asked the sitters to wait for ten minutes so
that he may finish his message that night. It refers
to a Japanese stringed musical instrument.)
INTERESTING CLOSE OF A SEANCE.
One evening he closed the conversation in a
very peculiar way. Every time he writes Namaskar
(Salutation) at the end of his message. In accor­
dance with the habit that day also he wrote half of
the word and would not finish it, and being as it
were put in mind of something said “ Don’t 3T
ou
remember that Kalambikar (Spirit) was here that
day ? He told me the whole account which very
much amused me. All of you thought at that time
that I was there and interrogated him accordingly.”
After finishing this narration he wrote the remaining
part of the word Namaskar.
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 75-
USE OF SPIRIT-COMMUNICATION.
He gave an interesting message on the above
point on one occasion. He said “ Many spirits desire
to communicate in this way, and they act accordin­
gly. There are others who do not like it. Those
who wish to stay in the next world, and do not like
to take re-birth, follow this path. It is true that
those who have no desire do not feel its importance.
Still they have to pass here their appointed time,,
and are consequently helpless in that respect. Y ou
m ay say that your prayer reaches them. But only
he who is interested responds to it, while others
feel nothing about it and do not mind it.”
EAGERNESS FOR COMMUNICATION.
One day he communicated as follows:— “ N ow -
a-days m y time never passes miserably. I have-
given up my mischievous nature. How can I be
troubled then? I work unsparingly for others, and
hence feel benefitted in a way. Nobody therefore-
dares to trouble me. If any one at all gets angry
with me, I explain to him his mistake and point out
his faults, as a consequence of which he is never
inclined to trouble me. 1 adjust m y conduct in this
way. I shall bear any amount of trouble, but shall
try to remove the sufferings of others. Forbearance
is the right rule of conduct for your world. Tit for
tat is harmful and is not always efficacious.”
IMPORTANCE OF SPIRIT-COMMUNICATION
On one occasion we requested him to give his-
messages. After some hesitation he consented and
said “ Friends my humble salutations to you. Please
try as much as you can. Although this work seexpi-
76 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
so simple it is full of mystery and deep significance.
t or<*er to explain its apparent simplicity suppose
A say that today I had been to talk with the dead or
to know the truth of Spiritualism. You will naturally
•ask what it is. The meaning is that the name alone
«annot signify anything. It must be accompanied
y experience. Knowledge cannot be obtained with-
even from sand after great
efforts. I his is true in this knowledge also. Can you
understand anything only by,'the word ‘ Spiritualism’ ?
•Certainly not. You must try to gain experience.”
DASERA GREETINGS.
, 9®- O
J
} e Pasera Day he gave his greetings to
tne sitters m his characteristic way. He composed a
snort verse embodying his thoughts and surprised all
wno were present in the seance. He occasionally
wntes his ideas in verse which is a development in
ms messages and which is beyond the power of the
Persons who act as mediums on such occasions.
MAN AND HIS SHEATHS.
It is stated in some religious books that man
has got various envelopes (Koshas) such as the
Annamaya Kosha (Physical) Pranamaya Kosha
a. some more. The greater the spiritua­
lity of an individual, the higher would be his Kosha
lenvelope). That is a common belief and as such he
was questioned about the particular envelopes of
various saints who were commonly regarded to be in
a very high order of the sheath. The replies were
not always consistent with the preconceived notions
or the sitters, and it was rather puzzling to find a
great saint in the second or third sheath. Oka
o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s 77
explained this- mystery by saying that these elevated,
souls can change their envelopes for a certain period.
This was illuminating and threw some light upon the
obscure point. He added that the information was
confidential, and he was disclosing it only to us. The
change of sheath does not alter the appearance of an.
individual, but there is a corresponding difference in
his luster. So also the bodies of spirits in different:
places ai*e similar in appearance, and the various
planes are meant for successive stages of existence..
UNEXPEGTED APPEARANCES.
In our tour to Jaipur, he appeared quite unex­
pectedly and stated that he was urged to come soon
by Saraswatibai ( A familiar spirit ). On two other-
occasions at Dehradun and Delhi he manifested with­
out any invocation and i*epliedin verse. He seemed
to be rather reluctant to communicate in these parts-
and promised to come at an interval of about a
fortnight.
While we were conversing with a spirit in
Calcutta we inquired whether there was any other
entity. W e were told that there was one known to
us. This was rather surprising as the entities
connected with us do not generally appear while
talking with other spirit-friends. On resorting’to the
Ouija Board we found that Oka was there and he
commenced writing in his usual way. He seemed
anxious about our early return to Bombay and in
reply to our statement that we make no difference
between other provinces he said “ That may be, but
a step-mother cannot be like the x'eal one” . The
gentleman who was sitting in the circle believed that
he had some- clairvoyant faculty and wanted to get:
7 8 o k a ’ s c o m m u n i c a t i o n s
it ascertained from Oka, In his characteristic way
he asked the gentleman to show his fingers and after
:a careful observation stated, “ It seems that he has
some faculty but it needs development” . The appro­
ximate period for the unfoldment of the power was
■also suggested, but the most interesting phenomena
was the minute examination of the nails when the
Indicator touched every finger of the gentleman-
In Bangalore he favoured us with his visits on
two occasions and evinced his keen interest in our
affairs. Among other things he said “ Have you not as
yet finished the work here? The people in Bombay ask
me when are you going to return. So I came to see
you. ( This referred to the seances which our Bombay
friends used to hold in our absence.) I am as it were
placed in a fix like a boy whom the mother would
not feed and the father would take no interest in
him .”
THE BROKEN GLASS-PANE.
In our seances during the tours he used to
communicate with us occasionally as it pleased him.
He used to tell us that he was very often visiting the
rooms in Bombay with a view to look after them.
On one occasion at Calcutta when asked about the
condition of the place he said that it was rather soiled
by the rains and a glass-pane of the window was
broken. After our return we found to our great
surprise that the condition of the rooms was as
-described by him and one of the panes of the window
was actually broken.
Regarding this matter another spirit-friend a
Rarsi youth told his father in a seance that Oka had
*
o k a ’ s c o m m u n ic a t io n s 79
once brought him to the place and showed the broken
glass-pane. The communication was quite unexpected
and greatly surprised all the sitters. He stated also
that Oka had told him that he was acting as the door­
keeper. Messages like these undoubtedly indicate
the keen interest which some discarnate entities
continue to take in those whom they love.
TALKS REGARDING DIVALI CELEBRATIONS.
In his usual way he remarked as follows in
verse after the Diwali celebration.
“ The Diwali festival has come to an end. Your
mind is now at rest, but although I was from time to
time expecting with folded hands to get flowers,
nobody offered me a single rose to smell.” These
expressions indicate his inordinate desire for flowers.
On one Ekadeshi day there were hardly any
sitters. Thereupon he began saying “ Have all
persons decided to take rest today?” Regarding the
fast he expressed “ Religion is going to dogs.
Where are those Ekadashis which we used to have?
Real fasts are those in which the throat is dried up
and the whole body becomes inactive. Majority of
people now blindly follow one another.”
-He was asked whether he had developed
spiritual powers during his earthly life, whereupon he
replied “ It is not an easy thing like eating a ripe
fruit.”
OKA’S PATRIOTISM.
On one occasion his patriotism was remark­
ably experienced when he was requested to give a
message for the new year. He said “ There are still
80 o k a ’ s co m m u n ica tio n s
two and half months for that. W hy do you ask for it
now?” This was very characteristic in as much as
according to the Hindu calender the period was just
the same as mentioned by him- It is needless to point
out that none of the sitters ever entertained the idea.
POINTING OUT A MISTAKE
On one occasion he wrote his salutation in verse
and stated that the service of humanity ensures one’s
happiness in the next world. A peculiar incident on
that occasion was that the person taking down his
message wrote long ‘si’ instead of short one, where­
upon he pointed out the writer’s mistake to the
sitters, which greatly impressed all who were present
on the occasion.
VIEWS ABOUT KILLING.
On our return to Bombay after about three and
half months, Oka was ready to offer his greetings
to us. We had not the pleasure of communicating
with him for a pretty long time on account of his
attachment for Bombay. In the very first seance
after our arrival he was kind enough to appear and
wrote in his characteristic way- He said “ Did you
now think of meeting the mother? (It is necessary to
point out in this connection that he regards Bombay
as the mother.) I had not ceased communicating.
I was always paying visits and was quenching
my thirst. My brother (another spirit-friend) was
also there, I drove out all those who were obstru­
cting. ”
An interesting phenomenon in this seance was
that the Indicator on the Ouija .Board thrice turned
o k a ’ s c o m m u n ica tio n s
81
towards a corner in the room. When asked the
reason thereof he said that Subhadrabaihad come and
was standing that side.
On another occasion he wrote aaverse to the
following effect. “ This is as it were an abode of peace.
Just accept salutations and hear m y messages after a
long time, dear ones. My work is like the roots of a
Banyan tree. I have to look to all sides.
That dav a sitter wanted to know whether loll­
ing insects isV sin. The question was eplained to
him, whereupon he said “ Insects also die a natural
death or are killed. But sometimes I feel that the
latter amounts to sin. Again I think that if they are
harmful, then why should it be regarded a sin to kill
them? If serpents and scorpions are left free they
injure others, and if they are killed it is sinful. How­
to act then? Therefore my mmd is divided- It is not
ir w i t h you. Of course God creates everything.
Nobody else can.”
ATTENDING A MEETING.
When requested to attend a lecture he promised to
do so and the following conversation took place on the
subsequent evening. “ Have lever not kept my prom­
ise?! was present at the meeting but what can I undei-
stand there? You and the audience could appreciate
the English language. I could not understand any­
thing. Four , persons were about to ask some
questions. There were two Mohomedans in the-
audience (This was very evidential as two Muslima
had attended the meeting, and he seems to have
noted it.) Y ou need not stay here indefinite!}.
He concluded his message by salutation m verse. ...
82 o k a ’s co m m u n icatio n s
VIEWS REGARDING EARTH-QUAKES.
Regarding the Quetta catastrophe he expressed:-
Human knowledge fails before Divine power. It
is true that thousands met a premature death; but
remember that twice the number will be born
every year. As all these persons passed away
suddenly, every one is sure to feel attached to his
relatives, money and property. This is likely to
degrade them. But it is all due to their Karma.
Still there is a way by which they can be helped.
You should all pray for them irrespective of caste,
■creed and religion. I would have also joined you on
such an occasion, but God has called me here to
welcome them.”
REGRET.
Referring to the absence of some of the sitters
he said in verse “ I made friendship and intimacy
with them but their apathy makes me uneasy. ”
That day he failed to offer his salutations at
the beginning. Regarding that omission he said
“ I have made a mistake today. Guess ! ” It imme­
diately struck us that he must be referring to his
omission about the salutation. On pointiug out the
matter he wrote a verse expressing his salutations.
REFERENCE TO CALL-BELL.
On another occasion he violently moved the
table and made it walk towards the stand on which
the Spirit Call-Bell was usually kept. That evening it
was taken out of the glass-case to show it to some of
the visitors. Referring to that matter he moved the
table towards that direction and said in a verse “ A
new occasion arose and the cage became empty.”
When requested to ring the Bell he replied “ All my
friends have gone. How can it be done now?”
o k a ’s c o m m u n ic a t io n s 83
SOME INTERESTING TALKS.
Once he as it 'were complained about bis
inability of getting a chance o f talking as other
spirits were always conversing with their dear ones
on earth.
To a question inquiring the name of the spirit
that was communicating, he very humorously
replied “ Why do you ask like this when Oka is
present here ?” That was rather unusual as he
always prefers to communicate last. But that day
he, as it were, took a fancy to be the first and added
“ Do you mean that an old man like me should
always remain behind?”
In a seance he had arranged an interview between
a sitter and his spirit-father as promised. Referring
to the incident he expressed “ I came running stra­
ight and brought about the meeting of the father and
son” . That time he chose to be the last and stated that
he gave preference to elders, as he was like a dry leaf.
His meaning was incomprehensible to all the sitters
who tried their best to make out the import of his
statement. The sense could be understood only when
he gave hints about the verse.
On the day previous to Ganesh Chaturthi festival
he spontaneously wrote “ The holy deity has come
home- Oh, hurry up to offer him prayers.” Further on
he said “ I would like to have a sweet ball (Modak)
tomorrow. Wash the place clean thrice and keep the
ball on a plantain leaf here in the seance-room. Bring
roses also”
This was accordingly ‘ done at the appointed
hour. Next day he said that he had come with
Subhadrabai at the time given by him..
84 o k a ’s c o m m u n ica tio n s
Before saying anything about the matter he
wrote of his own accord a verse to the following
effect. “ Time is flying. Life is being wasted. W hy
don’t you worship Rama?” On being asked the
reason of his expression he laughed heartily and said
“ I could not pass my time, so I was praying like
that” .
Addressing Mr. Jaykar one of our friends who
had come to the seance after a very long time he said
“ I can never forget the acquaintance with those who
have long-standing intimacy” . After offering
salutations he questioned him “ Where had the bee
been wandering?.”
During the tour he was not present at any of
the seances. But just after our return to Bombay he
responded and wrote “ Where were you engaged
roaming leaving Oka here?”
A spirit while communicating stated that he
was laughing at him. When we interrogated
him about this point he replied that he did so on
seeing the hurried writing of the young man. Regar­
ding the other world he reiterated that every thing in
the other world was composed of fine form of matter.
Once he was specially evoked as we had not
the pleasure of having his communications for a
long time. He offered his greetings to Mr. Khare
who was in the circle and promised to become visible
to him in his morning prayers. Mr. Khare had the
pleasure of clairvoyantly seeing him in his meditation
and he reported to us the vision which he had that
tíme.
On the eve of a Gathering of the Spiritualistic
o k a ’s c o m m u n ic a t io n s
85
Society, he said “ I am a queer man. All o£ you should
take part in this work and bring it to a successful end.
This is a work that can be done by all. It is useful if
you take interest in it, but you should rnrtmmd the
troubles that are necessary in this matter.
In one photograph there was a pretty clear face be­
sides those of the sitters. He confirmed it to be his own
and added that it was oval. When describing the face
he said that it resembled Shaligram- ( aa oval stone)
The word was so uncommon that it could never have
occurred to any o£ the sitters.
He helped one of the sitters by removing the
spirit-trouble at her piece. Some mischievous spirits
were interfering in the attempts that she used to do
at her place. He had promised to help her and
.accordingly did manage to ward off the interference
of the spirit. Without any question by the sitters he
said“ I have done m y work. I gave a sound thra-
«hing to that spirit. Now he will not trouble yon.
His statement was confirmed by another spirit who
was present in the seance. It is of course mysterious
as to how he managed to do such benevolent deeds.
In a pretty long conversation with him on one
occasion he gave much information about the nature
of the etheric body, language of the spirits and the
possibility of getting into touch with highly evolved
individuals in the next world. Regarding the last
point he said that there are two difficulties in the
way. First of all inquiry will have to be made about
the existence of such beings as they remain in
solitude and secondly they are generally averse to
come to earth-plane.
86 o k a ’s c o m m u n ica tio n s
HUMOUR. •
In a private seance just after tea he jokingly
remarked in verse “ Yon took the tea together and
forgot about the experiment. I and tea are poles
asunder. It is true that I am fond of friends, but not
of tea. ( Making a pun upon the word tea he said,
“ It is one and the same.” ) Give me flowers instead of
tea. You may take tea while I shall smell flowers.
INTRODUCTION By ANOTHER-SPIRIT.
A familiar spirit unexpectedly brought Oka and
introduced him to all the sitters. He'.said “ Father,
I have brought a new friend. Do you know ? Just
imagine. He is known to all. You are right in
guessing. He is Oka. I speak with him in broken
Marathi. He does not know English. He is very
fond of flowers. He inquired about my address
from late Mrs. Bishi. I asked him “ How did
you come to me.” He replied that he heard yester­
day that Mr. Rishi will be here, so he came
with me. . Then I told him how my mama gives me
flowers and other things. He was pleased, so I
invited him to our house, and he accepted willingly;
and he is here now.”
Q: How did late Mrs. Rishi know your address?
A: She knows me indirectly. Do you remem­
ber we had been to Mr. Rishi’s house.
“ Oka is laughing. He will not take your thanks.
He says it is my duty. He likes the next world
very much. He says first I should finish then he
would write.”
After the above talk Oka wrote a few sentences
in his characterestic way. He said “ I am an intru-
o k a ’ s c o m m u n ic a t io n s 87
der. Is it not ? I shall try to become visible to you.
My sign of identity is the ‘ Gandha ’ on my forehead
and the rosary of Rudraksha beads round m y neck.
You can know m y presence by these marks.”
VIEWS ON SHRADDHA.
Shraddha is a Hindu ceremony performed on
the anniversary of the dead. When asked about
this point he said “ In my opinion the custom is
proper. The chief point is that the present genera­
tion must retain the memory of their ancestors o f
preceding ones. Otherwise it would be difficult to
remember even the great grand-father. That is the
reason why it has been enjoined by the shastras
(religious scriptures.) And it is right also. For in
that way the ancestors come to the home on the
occasion, and feel satisfied. They cannot eat the
things directly, but derive the satisfaction. They
only smell the things offered to them. The other
point is that after over two dozen years they do not
visit their homes very often. (H ow do they get the
satisfaction then?) That is the reason why their
names are to be pronounced. The name and soul
are immortal. (Are they helped in any way in their
progress?) That depends upon one’s own efforts.
%
7
' jt/
..v#'
CHAPTER IV
Experiences in Europe
LONDON CONGRESS 1928.
During our visit to England in connection with
the International Spiritualist Congress we had very
interesting experiences.
While the session o£ the Congress was going on
Mr. W . Hope the famous photographic medium paid
a flying visit to London and we seized the opportunity
of having a seance with him. I and five other
delegates went to the Stead Bureau with Mr. Jean
Myer, the Vice-President of the International Spi­
ritualist Federation of Paris. Mr. Hope had a very
busy time that day, as many foreign delegates were
eager to have a sitting with him. Our group con­
sisted of seven sitters and two plates were exposed
on two batches of the group. The seance was held
at about 4 p. m. and Mrs. Buxton also collaborated
with Mr. Hope, as we were told that their joint
power gave better results. The plates were supplied
by Miss Stead and the packet was shown to us before
using it. In the first group there were two
“ Extras ” which have not been recognised, but in
the second in which I and Mrs. Rishi are the sitters
there is the extra of Subhadrabai.
The circumstances under which I got the
extra are interesting and deserve a reference.
On the morning of the seance Subhadrabai had
communicated that she would try to give her photo­
graph and it seems that she succeeded in keeping
89
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
W m-omise A glance at the photograph shows the
S e o ^ r i n d i a n U and a very dose resemUanoe
with her photograph taken while lm ng. N eifter
w f Hope nor Mrs. Buxton were told anything about
“ e or the passing over of m y wife, and it
very remarkable that the photograph should have
S m e under the above-mentioned circumstances
Mr. Jean Myer and all other sitters were equally
anxious to have the photograph o ^ , j j
to them, but they were not lucky X f c e
was considered very fortunate for having obtained the
photograph.
The plates were developed before us m the^
room and the whole process was closely observed
I can say about the seance that not only was ther e
no* fraud but not even the possibility ^of fraud, an
the genuineness of the photograph has been confirm­
ed by Subhadrabai in her subsequent messages.
After the Congress I was free to study the
spiritualist movement in England and also to do
some propaganda amongst the Indians m o •
was afforded an opportunity of speaking m the Indian
National Association and the lecture was *arg®y
•attended by several distinguished ladies and gentle-
. f e n Ammig others Dr. B. P. Paran3
pye, Mr G. S
Th-itt t g s were present on the occasion. 1 could
2 from ¿ e 'W t i o u s asked at the and of the l^ture
that it is extremely necessary to spread this know
ledge not only in India but all over the world.
Another lecture was arranged by Mr. H. J.
Osborne, the President of the Spiritual Fellowship m
Kentish Town. He was also kind enough to nominate
90 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
me as a member of the Fellowship and its inner
Gircle. The discourse was followed by experiments in,
clairvoyance and psychometry by Miss Smedley.
The spiritualist movement in England is carried:
on in a religious manner and all the meetings begin,
with a prayer to God and friends in the spirit-world-
At such meetings public clairvoyants demonstrate
the truth of spiritualism by describing the spirits
that happen to be present near their relatives. We-
attended such meetings in the Grotrian Hall, Aeolian
Hall, and in the Wimbledon Spiritualist Church
conducted by my friend Mr. R. A. Bush. Some of
the best mediums were present on the platform and
could describe the spirits, and sometimes the names-
also came out quite correct. It is a puzzle to many
as to how the mediums can do such feats which
passes the comprehension of an ordinary man. The
audience sometimes exceeds even five hundred ladies
and gentlemen, and still the developed medium can
and does give a fairly accurate information. Mrs.
Estelle Roberts is one of the best public clairvoyants-
and I had the pleasure of attending her demonstra­
tions both during and after the Congress. The
prayer and music created a harmonious atmosphere
which is absolutely necessary for good results. The-
religious side of this knowledge is not so keenly
perceived in other countries and hence the foreign
delegates were invited to attend the Sunday meetings-
held under the auspicies of different spiritualist
churches.
Besides Mr. Hope there was another photogra.
phic medium Mrs. Deane who used to get
spirit-photographs in the Stead Bureau. She is-
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE n
an old lady o f over sixty years and seems to be.
gifted with much mediumistic power.
Mr. Bajaj, the proprietor of Shantiniketan a hotel:
in London wished to have a seance for spirit-photo­
graphy which was accordingly arranged with her.
We went there with Mr. Bajaj, Mr. Thakurprasad:
m. a . and Mrs. Rishi for the seance. Out of the
plates exposed one only was found to have an extra,
face of a spirit which could be recognised by one of
the sitters. All the same it brought home to Mr..
Bajaj the genuineness of spirit-photography as he was
closely watching the process from the beginning to
the end. The method was the same as that of Mr.
Hope with a slight difference in the period of ex­
posure.
As Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was then shortly
proceeding to South Africa in connection with the-
spiritualist propaganda, the Spiritualists in Great Bri­
tain gave him a hearty send-off and a lunch on the eve -
of his departure. We had the pleasure of attending
the function which was as important as the Con­
gress. About 250 spiritualists were presnt on the
occasion and Mr. E. W . Oaten, the president of the-
International Spiritualist Federation occupied the chair.
Dr. Abraham Wallace and other well-known spiritu­
alists in England spoke after the lunch. We could see-
on that occasion the keen interest taken by the British:
spiritualists in the propaganda of this knowledge.
Our object in visiting England was not only to-
attend the Congress but also to study the science and
develop the psychic power of Mrs. Rishi. We had
much success in that direction also as she could make
much progress in trance-mediumship by the course
92 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
o f lessons in the British College of Psychic Science*
It is an important centre of psychic matters and was
.ably conducted by Mrs. Barbara Mackenzie, who
was then the Hon. Principal.
Within a month Mrs. Rishi’s power could be so
far developed that she used to go in trance and speak
¡in English in that state when as a matter of fact she
was quite ignorant of the language. The expe­
riences obtained in the college were varied and
cannot be summarised in this brief account. It is
impossible to obtain rapid or sensational results in
■psychic development, and those who expect to have
such experiences evince only an abysmal ignorance
■about this knowledge. Sensation-hunting must be
discouraged and we must try to impress upon our
countrymen the deeper significance of spiritualism.
Direct Voice mediums are very few and it is much
-difficult to get a chance to sit with them without
waiting for a considerable period. Some mediums
are booked months ahead and hence we had to rest
content with the experiences that could be obtained
in the Home-Circle of Mrs. Robertson. The seances
which we attended for direct voice used to be held in
■pitch-darkness for about two hours and the voice of
Mrs. Robertson’s guide in the spirit-world used to be
heard through the trumpet. It needs to be stated
'here for the information of those unacquainted with
the modus operandi of the phenomena, that it is
■not the medium’s voice but of the spirit who draws
the power from the medium and the sitters. The
trumpets are used during the seance only for magni­
fying the voice and serve no other purpose. In our
.-seances there was a luminous spot on the trumpet so
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 93?
that its movements could be easily seen by the circle.
It used to float in the room and some times cheer--
ingly patted us also. Throughout the seances the*
sitters had to pray intermittently and sing for harmo­
nising the conditions which usually facilitates the
voice. The musical box had often to be used for the*
same purpose. The guide used to insist upon this-
whenever he found it difficult to produce the voice-
He told me that Subhadrabai was also present, but
she could not produce the voice. The spirit-friends-
have to get accustomed to the process and hence*
they are not able to produce any particular pheno­
mena at the very first sitting.
The voice in the seances that we attended was
rather low and indistinct as the circle was also trying
to develop its powers. But I was told that with
other advanced mediums like ‘Mrs. May or Mrs.
Osborne Leonard it is loud enough and quite audible..
From all the observations that I could make in the
seances, I can testify about the genuineness of the
phenomena. No human hand ever touched the-
trumept during the seances, nor was any contrivance
made in the room for the purpose as some are led to-
think. The trumpet used to float at a distance of
about four feet from the floor, and used to fall down
with a great thud when the power weakened.
Our experiences in England would be incomplete-
without the message which Mr. R. A. Bush, a w ell-
known spiritualist gave to India. Much of my interest
in this knowledge is due to him and when I had
the pleasure of meeting him personally I asked him
to give a message to tour country which he greatly
liked and admired.
>94 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
He wrote “ You ask me a message to India as
an old Spiritualist. Nearly forty years ago I began
to fight my way into the heart of Spiritualism. I
succeeded after carefully removing the decrepit or
cumbersome superstructures of an old religion and
rebuilding, with new or restored material, a more
useful and beautiful edifice upon the ancient founda­
tion. Thus as an advanced spiritualist following the
spiritualism of that great everliving Asiatic Guru
Jesus and his early disciples I speak to India and
all peoples.
I belong to all religions and all countries.
As a denizen of this round world, in humanity and
in religion I recognise no fixed East nor rigid West.
The East cannot say, ‘ Here I stand.’ The West can­
not say, ‘ Here I abide,’ for all is East and all is
west. He who has his eyes immovable, and blind to
the beauty of the rising sun will lose the glories of
its settings. He whose darkness has been enlightened
by the rising sun must follow in its course, if he
desires to remain in the light. In the heart of the
Creator, the universal mother-father there is no
darkness. From this light I call on His behalf to all
His children in India thus: awake thou that sleepest
and arise from the dead. Cease from words and
theories. Let your light so shine before the world
that all the peoples thereof may see your good deeds
and be refreshed thereby. All peoples are mine,
therefore learn ye from one another, for it is my
light and my being that dwelleth in every individual
human soul without distinction and all are beloved.
See that ye despise not any of my children. Beat the
gongs in all the towns and villages and let all India
hear.”
EXPERIENCES JN EUROPE 95
On our way back we haulted for few days in
Paris and visited the International Spiritualist
Federation- France has taken a great step in
•organising a world-centre for the propaganda of
spiritualism linking up various Societies and Associa­
tions working for the spread of this knowledge. Our
Society has been affiliated to the Federation and has
thus obtained an international status in the cause of
spiritualism. It is confidently hoped that the Federa­
tion in Paris will be of great help to bring about the
much-needed universal Brother-hood.
X X X
THE HAGUE CONGRESS 1931
Our visit to Europe in connection with the
International Spiritualist Congress at the Hague
which Mrs. Rishi’ and I attended as the delegates
from India was very useful in several ways. Besides
taking part in the various proceedings of the Congress
we could come in closer contact with the leading
Spiritualists of the world and attend -the seances of
well-known mediums in England and other countries.
MATERIALISATION EXPERIMENTS.
During the Congress-week we had a busy time,,
but just after the session the General-Secretary, Mr.
Yan Walt invited us for a seance at his place- W e
went there at about 10 A. M. along with Mr. Berry,
Mr. Keelling, Mr. Knott and two other ladies. The
sitting was arranged by Mr. Kirkby the inventor of
Reflectograph and Communigraph. He had come to
theHague with the instruments and the medium Mrs.
Singleton. In this seance we could witness the pheno­
mena of materialisation. Some of the sitters touched the
96 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
materialised hand which was visible to all the sitters.
The face of the spirit covered with a sort of drapery
could also be seen on three occasions. The seance-
was held by day before noon and the room was lit
up with red light during the experiment. The
medium was in trance in a cabinet with her hands and
feet closly tied up. Three of the sitters could receive
messages from their friends and relatives in a very
convincing way. The language and style were very
characteristic and brought home the identity of each
individual. At the end of the seance, the guide-
spoke in a fairly loud voice through the medium
while she was in deep trance.
COMMUNIGRAPH.
Another instrument which has been devised for
the same purpose is the communigraph. It is not
necessary to have a special medium to work it, and
it has been claimed that any ordinary family-circle
can get messages with it. It gives messages letter
by letter on a white oval screen which is set in the
surface of the table-
The Communigraph is similar in function to the
Reflectograph but in working it no special medium is
required to supply the guide with the psychic-
force for forming a visible rod or a materialised
hand. In other words the Communigraph is operated
with invisible psychic force drawn from all the
sitters in perfectly normal condition, and none of
them need have any obvious mediumistic power.
We had no opportunity to observe the working
of the instrument, but could see it during the
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 97
Congress. It is less complicated than the Reflecto-
graph and should prove greatly useful to all family
circles.
SPIRIT CALL-BELL.
Besides the above instruments we could see oner
suggested by a Belgian spirit enabling the #sitters to
know the presence of their discarnate friends. It
would be too long to describe the construction of the
apparatus, but its principal aims are to announce to
persons engrossed in other work
wishes to communicate with them. With that object
the entity rings the “ Call-Bell and if the Person
called, possesses sufficient mediumistic power he
can get messages by means of the Ouija Board or
automatic writing.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
From The Hague we proceeded to London where
we could meet several of our old friends and observe all
sorts of psychic phenomena. The spiritualist move­
ment in England is being carried on along religious
lines and Services are held for offering prayers and
getting into touch with the dead. On such occasions
clairvoyant demonstrations are held so that some per­
sons in the meeting can become aware of the presence
of their departed friends. We used to attend these
meetings at all possible times with a_ view to have
personal experiences. At a meeting mttie London
Spiritualist Alliance when Mr. Vout Peters, the
well-known medium, was demonstrating public clair­
voyance, we were told by him that there was a lady
standing by me, and the medium mentioned several
factswhich were true to a large extent. The experience
98 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
was corroborated by Subhadrabai in her message
next morning.
In our travels in Europe we used to converse
with Subhadrabai as usual on all possible occasions and
I had told her to attend the meetings like those men­
tioned above so that I may have the pleasure o£feeling
her presence. She seemed to have scrupulously kept her
promise as I could find from the varied experiences in
the seances. Other spirit-friends, in spite of our ardent
desire to get into touch with them were not kind
enough to respond to our call. The reasons for such
an omission on their part though mysterious are
indeed worth consideration.
PSyCHOMETRy.
Like clairvoyance, psychometric demonstrations
are also held at several meetings in the Spiritualist
Societies. The medium on such occasions holds in his
or her hand the article belonging to any individual
whereby he can feel the presence of a spirit known
to. the person and conveys the message to the sitter.
On account of the psychic power the medium expe­
riences the condition of the spirit at the time of his
passing, and even the physical pain is sometimes
transferred for a few seconds to the medium handling
the article. At one meeting Mrs. Rishi gave her
ring to the medium for psychometry whereupon
she was told that her father was there, but he
had no communication to give at that time.
DIRECT VOICE.
As in 1928 this time also we attended two
seances for direct ivoice in Mrs. Robertson’s home
tirde. In both of them we could hear the voice of
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 99
different spirits, and could also feel the touch of their
hands. The flowers which were in the seance-room-
were placed in our hands to our great surprise. On
both the occasions Subhadrabai, as promised, tried her
best to bring forth her voice through the trumpet; but
she was hardly successful in her attempt. The guides
did their best to help her in the matter, and when in
spite of her persistent efforts she failed to do so, the
trumpet used to fall down with a thud.
In the second seance however the control who
occasionally speaks through Mrs. Rishi while she is
in trance, was present and we could hear his voice
quite distinctly. He gave us a short- encouraging
message and promised help and co-operation in our
efforts in India.
Those who aspire to have such experience in
India will do well to imitate the untiring zeal and
persistent efforts of Mrs. Robertson’s circle which
had been trying week after week for about half a
dozen years. In the first few years they could get
no phenomena, but that did not disappoint them in
any way. They were carrying on their efforts
unostentatiously out of the love which they had for
the subject and were sure to succeed in their
endeavours.
SPIRIT-HEALING.
The co-operation of spirit-friends is sometimes
sought in healing diseases and alleviating human
suffering. Mr. Jones was doing wonderful services in" ; *
this direction by the help of his guide, the medicine
man who used to control him and heal patients by his; ‘
magnetic power. The medium used to be in
trance for hours together and had to be guided
100 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
by his assistants who to a certain extent reinforced
his power. The control was an African who
had been doing this benevolent work through
Mr. Jones. At first he was ignorant of English, but
seemed to have picked up a fairly good knowledge of
the language after about ten years. The large atten­
dance at these meetings in the London Spiritualist
Alliance was a clear evidence of his genuine powers
and good work. W e attended two meetings in the
Alliance and were greatly impressed by what we saw.
The British College of Psychic Science is a well-
known centre in London where Psychic education is
imparted. In our visit to London in 1928 Mrs. Rishi
had undergone training in the college for the deve­
lopment of her trance-faculty. After picking up some
knowledge and experience about the phenomena we
used to hold experiments in India. The want of
regular sitters was a great handicap in her progress,
and the faculty could not be developed in the absence
of repeated sittings. In our visit to London this
time we could arrange to have two sittings with
Miss Francis under whose guidance she was trained
on the last occasion. Owing to the suspension of
practice for a long time the first sitting was
almost abortive in as much as no voice could come
forth through her, although she was in deep trance.
It seemed that the control was trying his best to use
her vocal organs, but failed to do so for a long time.
We thought it worthwhile to conclude the sitting
that day and give another trial. The failure to get
any voice brought home to us the need of frequent
trials so that the control as well as the medium
might have the facility to speak. Our experiences
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 101
In the second sitting were more than-w hat we
expected; and the control spoke fairly well through
Mrs. Rishi for about three quarters of an hour on
various points. Referring to Subhadrabai the
control said “ Your wife is very active. She often
comes to me. She says that my love is just
as it was before death. She has a necklace
®
£ beads in her. band« She is here standing Y
you. She always comes to you _every morning.
As regards the Spiritualist work m india_ he said
“ It will progress gradually. The people are ignorant,
but you need not mind them.” He expressed his
admiration for Miss Francis’ work and gave her his
best love. He asked her not to forget him m her
seances. It is difficult to reproduce all that he said
that morning, but I feel confident that much good
work can be done by the cooperation of such highly
evolved spirits.
TRANCE-ADDRESS OF MRS. MORRIS.
The possibility of progress is almost unlimited
under the guidance of advanced entities of the other
world, as can be seen from the remarkable trance of
Mrs. Morris delivered week after week in the Fortune
Theatre. The place used to be quite packed in the
evenings and several persons had to be disappointed
for want of admission. We had the pleasure of
attending one of the meetings and found it very
Interesting. The subject matter of the trance-
address and the language as well the delivery were
such as will do credit even to an accomplished
speaker. The audience was spell-bound till the end
o f the meeting and pondered over the topics treated
a her address. Some extremely advanced spirit
102 ' EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
seemed to be ventilating his thoughts through her for
the benefit of humanity. It is very necessary to-
have such learned speeches so that the deeper signifi­
cance of Spiritualism may be brought home to
the world.
SPIRlT-PHOTOGRAPHy.
Photograhy supplies some of the undeniable
proofs of spirit-return, and naturally they are sought
whenever possible. Unfortunately the mediums who
are gifted with the necessary psychic power are very
few and and those who have it are largely in demand.
Still we tried to explore all possible avenues o f
knowledge and could have a sitting with Mrs. Deane
in the Stead Bureau. We went to the Bureau with
Mrs. Robertson and had our photographs taken in the
usual way. Two plates were exposed by Mrs. Deane,
in the first of which I and Mrs. Rishi were the
sitters, and in the second Mrs. Robertson was also'
sitting with us.
The plates were magnetised for a few minutes-
by holding them between our hands, and they were
then exposed by the medium. Immediately after
development which we watched in the dark room both
the plates were found to contain extras besides the
sitters. There are certain remarkable features in the
photographs which can best be understood by closely
looking at them.
A MESSAGE TO INDIA.
On the eve of our departure from England Mr.
E. W . Oaten the then President of the International
Spiritualists’ Federation gavet he following message to
our countrymen in India “ Mr. V. D. Rishi who repre­
sented India at the International Congress held at The
Hague on September 4th to 11th 1931 is return-
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 103
ing home and I have pleasure in committing to Ms
care this letter o£ good will and encouragement to all
the Spiritualists of the Great Indian Empire.
Your country saw the birth of spiritual idealism
and religious parctice. It laid the foundations upon
which have been built all the great religions of the
world. Its philosophy has held the hearts of its
teeming millions for untold centuries.
It was with pleasure, therefore, that we welcom­
ed a representative of your Great Empire at the
International Congress of Spiritualists which repre­
sents the modern scientific movement which is
striving to bind closer the bonds between the
physical and spiritual worlds.
Gradually modem science is cofirming the hopes
and aspirations of humanity. It is telling us that
there is a spiritual world and that those who die pass to
that world to continue their development and minister
to the spiritual needs of those who are left behind.
I am sure that modern science can reinforce ancient
philosophy upon this important point.
I want men to realise that union between the
physical and spiritual worlds is not a matter for the
priest alone. It is a matter for every individual soul.
All of us have at times the passing of our dear ones,
and all of us have longed for a touch of the vanished
hand. The practice of modern Spiritualism and the
experiments conducted in the seance-room can reunite
the severed bonds. It can do more. It can put us
in touch with the people who are not living in the
spiritual world, and I want to insist that those who
know most concerning the nature of the spirit-world,
104 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
are those who live in it. Just as the telegraph and
the telephone have united the nations in this world,
so modern Spiritualism is uniting the Spiritual and
Physical worlds, bringing comfort to those who
mourn, strength to those who are weak, and help to
those who are dis-consolate.
The task which the Spiritualists in India have
to perform is to bring home this gigantic truth to
the millions of their countrymen. It is a message
which will unite the world in the bonds of peace and
fraternity which will destroy all sense of sectionalism
and enable all the nations of the world to unite in
human brotherhood.
May I offer you my greetings and congratula­
tions in the work you have undertaken, and wish you
■God-speed in the task which remains to be done.
May the Blessings of Almighty God be upon
your efforts, and the guidance of the wise ones of
the spirit-world lead you into the path of greatest
usefulness.”
X X X
BARCELONA CONGRESS 1934
The Fifth Session of the International Spiritua­
list Congress was held in Barcelona in 1934 when we
had again the honour of representing India in that
assembly. This time also we could gain new experi­
ences in our visit to Europe some of which were quite
new and different from those obtained on previous
occasions.
CONGRESS STORY.
After our arrival in Barcelona our time was
occupied in attending the various functions of the
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 105
Congress, which lasted for full ten days. W e had the
privilege of attending the _ session for the
fourth time as delegates from India, and our Spanish
friends seemed greatly pleased by our presence.
Many of them could not directly express their senti­
ments for want of a common language and had there­
fore to seek the services of interpreters who were
always ready to help us. In spite of this barrier their
expressions were more communicative than the
words as they were the real language of the heart.
The following paragraph in the “ Two Worlds ” will
give an idea of the appreciation of our presence at the
Congress. The paper stated “ From Greenland’s icy
mountains to India’s coral strand is a true description
of the assembled delegates at the International Con­
gress at Barcelona. Mr. Jutsing was there as the
representative of Greenland, whilst Mr. and Mrs. Rishi
o f Bombay again renewed acquaintance with the
representatives of many climes.” The “ Psychic News”
reported the following in its account of the Congress.
“ Mr. and Mrs. Rishi have made a thirteen days
journey from India to be here. They told me marve­
lous stories about their experiences in their own
country.
The work of the Congress was carried on in three
languages viz. Spanish, French and English. Most
o f the papers read at the Congress were translated in
different languages and the gist of the speeches was
also summarised by interpreters. There were dele­
gates from France, England, Cuba, Mexico, Holland,
Belgium, Spanish America and several other nations
who outlined the position of Spiritualism in their
respective countries. The Congress met in thé
106 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
stately “ Palace de Projections ” which was placed
at the disposal o£ the Spiritualists and could accomo­
date nearly two thousand persons. The surrounding
handsome theatre in which most of the meetings
were held could easily contain more than a thousand
persons. Some of the leading authorities in Catalonia
being interested in Spiritualism presided over a
few functions and forcefully supported the cause.
Vehemence seemed to be the common characteristic
of Spanish-speaking countries as one could easily
perceive from the fervour and enthusiasm with which
they addressed the large meetings and carried on
discussions in the various sections of the Congress.
They laid great stress upon the philosophic side o f
the subject, and had no mediums for public demon­
strations like those in England and America. Private
circles are however held wherein the truth of spirit-
return is demonstrated and the Spiritualists supplement
their experiences by reading books on the subject. The
enthusiasm of the people was clearly perceived by
the huge numbers which attended the propaganda
meetings arranged by the Congress. On every
occasion the vehemence of the speakers was an out­
standing feature which greatly impressed the foreign,
delegates.
REINCARNATION.
The main discussion was carried on regarding
the principle of reincarnation. In fact it was a matter
of keen controversy at the philosophic section and
was hotly debated by several delegates. Learned
papers were read in support of the doctrine by Spanish
speakers as well as by other representatives. The
English section seemed unconvinced by then* argu-
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 107"
merits and ultimately a resolution was adopted
mentioning the countries for and against the principle.
As a large number of Spiritualists follow the teachings
of Allan Kardec, there was a majority of countries
believing in the doctrine of reincarnation and India
was included in the list of those nations who admitted
the principle. The resolution regarding reincarnation
was a sort of compromise between different countries
and the International Spiritualist Federation was
urged to set up a permanent Committee to consider
the question and to make recommendations to the
future Congresses.
CONCLUSIONS
Other resolutions unanimously readopted the
conclusions arrived at in the preceding sessions of the
Congress, regarding the fundamental principles o f
Spiritualism. The resolution regarding the abolition
of war and the reduction of armaments clearly indi­
cated the attitude of Spiritualists towards the most
urgent problems of the world. The bringing together
of persons working for the common cause in their
respective countries was a great achievement of the
Congress and will foster a tie of brotherhood among
the Spiritualists of different nations.
EXCURSIONS.
The excursions to various places of interest
near Barcelona were also an important feature of the
Congress. Many delegates availed themselves of the
opportunity and were immensely pleased by the
grand site of the places visited by them. The illu­
minations on Sunday night at the Montjuich Fountains
can never be forgotton on account of their marvellous-
beauty. All visitors admitted that it was the grand-
108 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
•est in the world and they had not seen such superb
phenomena anywhere else. The visit to the Pueblo
Espanol, Roman Art Museum, and the Town Hall
■greatly interested the delegates who were highly
impressed by the magnificent Buildings. The
President of the Generality of Catalonia evinced his
keen interest in the subject by granting an interview
to the delegates who had been invited for the
purpose. The vast number of people who attended
"the propaganda meetings and the lecture by Dr. H.
"Torres, Deputy to the Catalonian Parliament was an
unmistakable sign of their earnest desire to know
¡this grand truth.
EXPERIENCES IN LONDON,
Our visit to London after the Congress enabled
ms to obtain new experiences about the higher
•phenomena of Spiritualism. We could take part in
the experiments for Psyehometry, Clairvoyance,
Trance-Speaking, Direct Voice and Materialisation.
Every time the results varied according to the
■development of the medium and the power of the
spirit communicating or producing the phenomena.
'The experiments were held either in the well-known
places like the Marylbone Spiritualist Association,
Wigmore Psychic Centre, or the private circles of
distinguished mediums. The trance addresses of Red
•Cloud and Moon-trail, the Guides of Mrs- Roberts
and Mr. Hambling were, to say the least, very
impressive and showed the possibility of obtaining
highly philosophic information from some unseen
•entities. They are often ready to help us, but usually
the ignorance and apathy of the living act as insur­
mountable barriers. Red Cloud described that day
.at great length the Seven Spheres and answered the
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 109'
questions on the subject. He could also relieve b y
his touch a gentleman in the audience who was-
suffering from headache. The voice of the medium-
changed when he controlled her and the language was
also very characteristic. His services are well-known
to all who visit the meetings in Marylbone Spiritua­
list Association and other places. Moon-Trail the-
Guide of Mr. Hambling whose development is compa-
ritively recent has made a wonderful record within a
short period. The day on which we attended the»
service in the Great Metropolitan Spiritualist Associa­
tion, he spoke on “ Measuring the Immeasurable” .
The address was a very grand performance and would
have done credit to any well-known orator. The-
medium seemed to be in deep-trance throughout the-
control by the spirit which lasted for about an
hour, and the audience was spell-bound by the
learned address.
A LECTURE IN G. M. S. A.
The secretary of the Association was kind enough
to allow me an opportunity of speaking about the
Spiritualistic movement in India, and a lecture was-
accordingly arranged on the 6th of October, when I
could explain to the audience the activities in our
country for the furtherance of this cause. The
Association is fast growing and made wonderful
progress during a short perid.
ATTEMPTS FOR PHOTOGRAPH^.
Our chief endeavours during the stay were to
obtain spirit-photographs for us, as well as for those-
in India, who wanted to have proofs by these
methods. Experiments were accordingly arranged with
Mr. John Myers, Mrs. Lee and Mr. Gibson, the-
110 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
well-known photographic mediums and about a dozen
attempts were made by the usual methods. Every
tame the plates were brought by me, initialled before
•exposing and developed in our presence so that there
■could be no imputation of any fraud on the part of
the mediums. The camera was also carefully exa­
mined and we can unhesitatingly affirm that there was
mo trickery in all these attempts. Usually two plates
were exposed and the second was found to contain
•some extras, the first being utilised, as we were told,
for gathering the power. The process was watched
by us from beginning to end and it was a surprise to
us every time to find some faces on the plates after
development. Usually they were Indian, although
not closely recognisable. The photographs were
•always taken by day and the exposure was much
longer than that required for ordinary photography.
Eerverthless the faces of the living did not suffer in
any way either by over-exposure or any other fault.
CO-OPERATION OF SPIRITS.
The spirit-friends who co-operated with us in
these attempts, were very eager to have clear impre­
ssions and did their best to help us in the matter.
They faffed to understand why sometimes the faces
of unrecognised persons appeared on the plates.
The difference in the appearance of the features was
■explained by a familiar spirit to be due to the
-ectoplasm, which he said was a sort of power or
varnish. When we asked about the photograph, he
admitted .that he was present at the experiment and
the forehead and the nose were quite similar to his
features. This ought to satisfy any reasonable man
sand convince him about the matter.
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 111
TRANSFIGURATION AND TRANCE-SPEAKING.
In the seances with Mrs. Lee and Mr. Gibson,
besides obtaining spirit-photographs, we could witness
transfiguration as well as trance-speaking by their
guides. The face of Mr. Gibson when controlled by
a Chinese spirit looked like that of a Chinaman and
similar changes in appearance were noticed with
different spirits. On the occasion when we attended
the seance a familar spirit made great efforts to speak
through him, but found it difficult to convey his
words as that was his first attempt. He seemed
much excited and overjoyed for getting an opportu­
nity to communicate in that way. To our great
surprise he mentioned his name when we had not
said anything about it to the medium in our talks.
The spirit had to take the help of the guide for
expressing his ideas. The sitting was held in dim
red light in a family circle and was conducted along
strictly religious lines accompanied with music to
harmonise the vibrations. This is a common feature
with many circles and greatly helps the conditions
necessary for obtaining good results.
SCOTOGRAPHY.
Scotography was one of the gifts of Mr.. Gibson
and Mrs. Lee and we could see several remarkable
pictures in our visit to their rooms. They were
obtained without the aid of a camera simply by
holding the plates in their hands by the mediums.
Sometimes the pictures are found on handkerchiefs
or pads of paper The drawings on the walls of
the room were most remarkable as they were drawn
by spirits with crayons without any human touch.
We had left a sealed pad with the mediums and
112 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
found some spirit-faces on its pages when it was sent
back to us in India.
MATERIALISATION SEANCE
In a seance with Mrs. Henderson we could see
materialised faces and hands. Direct voice was also
heard through trumpets which were kept there for
the purpose. These sittings were usually held in
complete darkness and the sitters holding hands formed
a chain. The faces and hands were dimly visible hut
the voice was pretty clear. It was difficult to ascer­
tain the identity of the figures although they used
to hold the luminous pads in their hands to show
their faces. Subhadrabai reported next day that she
was present there that time, but could not suffici­
ently show herself. Other sitters nearly ten in
number could see and talk with their dear ones on
the other side of life.
DIRECT VOICE AND TELEKINESIS.
At the home-circle of Mr. Hannen Swaffer, the
well-known Journalist we got further opportunities
of witnessing the higher phenomena of Spiritualism.
The seance continued for about three hours and was
attended by Mr. Barbanell, the Editor of the Psychic
News-, Mr. Arthur Ford who can hear the dead
speak and a few other ladies and gentlemen. The
mediums were in deep trance when controlled by
spirits and one of them was even dematerialised,
and removed from the chair which she occupied.
The voice could be freely heard through the trumpets
which sometimes were floating in the room. The
location of the trumpet could be ascertained from
the luminous spots on them. Subhadrabai made
attempts to talk through the trumpet and could Just
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 113
mention her name and some other words. We could
feel the touch of the spirits in the sitting and the
dematerialisation of the medium was clearly demon­
strated by the trumpet touching every part of the
empty chair. The movement of objects without
physical touch was noticed when several articles were
thrown on-the floor from other parts of the room. The
return of the medium was accompanied with a thud
as she was thrown on the chair with much force.
A GUIDE'S ENCOURAGEMENT.
The following report which appeared in the
* Psychic News 5will give an idea about the talks we
had with the spirits that time.
“ In the country where you serve there is as yet
only a glimmer of light in a world of darkness,” said
a spirit-guide at Hannen Swaffer’s home circle on
Sunday, to V. D. Rishi and his wife who are India’s
greatest propagandists.
“ That little point of light is kept burning by
those who know that it is the light of the great
spirit” went on the guide. It is by the service of the
people like you that the light can grow and grow.
As it grows, all ignorance and selfishness will dis­
appear and in their place will come a new light
of service, which is the biggest part of the great
Spirit. “ That is very big work and nothing in the
world of matter can prevent those serving the cause
from fulfilling their task. Your country has many
hundreds of years of wrong teaching to undo” .
“ We are working single-handed” , remarked
Rishi.
“ Oh no, you are not, ” said the guide. “ There
114 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
are always with you those from our side of life. The
power of the spirit is greater than the power of the
matter. So far you have never failed” .
Later, the guide gave Rishis encouragement in
their task.
“ You two have been brought together ” , he
said. '£It is all the part of the plan, so that together
you can work to bring a new link to the many thou­
sands of souls who are still in the darkness of
.material things.
A NEW LINK.
You have been brought to this circle that you
m ay see what can be achieved by harmony. The
•contact with the spirit that you will get here will
mot be ended when the sitting is over. You will
feel the power that will go with you and will be
■with you always.”
“ It will help to lift you up and will help you
to fight every battle. It will remain with you and
will help you to remove all the stones in your path-
It will urge you on when you feel depressed, lift you
up when your eyes are cast down, will bind you with
the Great Spirit of all and will make you understand
that those who serve -may receive impressions from
a power that overcomes all the difficulties of
earth.
“ Know that you are never alone. Your fights
are our fights and your difficulties are our difficulties.
When you weep we weep with you. When you
rejoice we rejoice too.
“ May the Great Spirit be with you in your
journeys and in your mission. May His light illu-
EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE 115
mine your heart and give you a greater understand­
ing of His purpose. May you feel that power which
will sustain and uplift you and cause you to feel to
be placed on the pathways which lead to His know­
ledge.
“ May you feel His arms and His cloak around
you and know that you are guided and protected in
all that you seek to do in His service.”
Mr. Rishi spoke to two spirits who talked
through the trumpet. Although the spirit voices were
not very clear and the identity of the speakers was
not satisfactorily established, yet Rishi was able to
indentify several words as being in the Hindustani
language which was understood by no body in the
room except Rishi and his wife.
Altogether eight spirits spoke through the
trumpet and there were, at the end of the seance
partial materialisations.”
SUBHADRABAI'S VISITS.
In all our travels Subhadrabai used to commu­
nicate with us whenever we attempted to do so
according to our convenience. It was learnt from
her that she was visiting Bombay almost every day
and every thing was going on there as usual. The
information was corroborated by the correspondence
which we used to get from India. She was seen on
some occasions by clairvoyants and used to accom­
pany us at Spiritualist meetings but not other places.
Ho other spirit-friends were kind enough to visit us
unlesss invited, and we had no opportunities of getfc- '
ing messages from them. At times we were told $>y:"
116 EXPERIENCES IN EUROPE
some mediums about the presence of _other spirits
near us, but we found it difficult to believe the state­
ment for want of confirmation.
Some of the experiments for Psychometry did
not impress us and in the experiments _ for trance
arranged for a Sindhi friend regarding a very
important matter be got contradictory information
which greatly puzzled him. But on the whole we
were much benefitted by our observations which
largely added to our stock of information-
CHAPTER Y
Interesting Observations.
A DROWNING TRAGEDY.
In a seance at Mussoorie messages were obtained
from a boy who passed over under tragic circum­
stances by drowning at Juhu near ^Bombay. He
quickly responded and gave very touching communica­
tions. Among other things he said to his relatives
J£I am not dead. I am here. If you cry like this I
shall go. God has given me a more beautiful body
than yours- I thought of coming back but then it
occurred to me that if I die again my relatives will be
sorry. I have not the permission to give the name
of my body-guard here. One thing is troubling me
that here" I have not got my companions.” He
expressed his feelings by violent movements of the
Table and also in other manner. Regarding his
photographs he observed. “ W hy do you want them?
They are mere colours.” He stated that he was
looking towards his feet when he was sinking. This
was very characteristic as he was swallowed by the
quick-sands on the shore and his attention might
have been naturally drawn towards his feet.
A SEANCE AND ITS SEQUEL
The eagerness of discarnate entities to commu­
nicate with the living was surprisingly demonstrated
on one occasion. In a seance at Mussoorie a lady got
several messages from her deceased mother through
•automatic writing, and the experiment was closed in
the usual way. A few minutes after we had left the
room, she was controlled by the spirit who seemed
118 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
very eager to express her ideas. One of the sitters
intimated the matter to us and on returning to the
place we found the lady lying quite unconscious on
her bed and attempting to speak some words. It was
evident that the spirit had taken full control of her
body and was still there in spite of her promise to
retire. From her talks we could understand that she
felt greatly annoyed at the alleged indifference of her
relatives towards her and repeatedly urged them not
to do so. That was the main point in her commu­
nications and after about an hour’s persuasion and
assurances the spirit left her control. The lady after
resuming her normal consciousness seemed to be
quite unaware of what had happened during the
period.
Such instances of involuntary trance are very
rare, and we usually find the spirit-friends retiring after
the seance is formally closed. Some do express their
desire to stay for a few minutes more, but such
violent attempts are rare phenomena. This was the
second of its kind during our observations extending
over more than a dozen years.
A DINNER FOR SPIRITS.
Some persons after getting a number of messag­
es from their familiar spirits desire to offer food and
other things to them with a view to express their
affection. The discamate beings are generally
indifferent to such things, and do not attach any
importance to such matters. A spirit-friend, however,
when asked on one oceasion at Dehradun gave
certain instructions which were faithfully carried out.
Subhadrabai was also present at the dinner along
with the invoked spirit, and when asked about the
offerings both of them expressed their satisfaction for
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 119
it. It need hardly be pointed out that the pleasure
•which they derived from such expressions of affection
was purely mental and there was no change in the
food placed in the dishes.
A SPIRIT-DOCTOR’S ADVICE. .
A gentleman was earnestly awaiting to meet us in
Benares with a view to consult a spirit-doctor as his wife
had been suffering from a peculiar muscular pain, and
no medical practitioner could give her any relief.
The spirit who was a well-known doctor at Muttra
was accordingly invoked and he advised electric treat­
ment for the lady. In the first invocation after
giving his advice he added that he would consult his
father who was also in the spirit-world and had a
record of fifty years’ practice. Next time he stated
that his father had confirmed his opinion.
SPIRIT-GUIDANCE.
The discarnate entities continue to take interest
in the affairs of those whom they love and sometimes
give valuable advice also. A gentleman in Bombay
who is a convinced Spiritualist and a great sympa­
thiser of our activities once intimated the following
experiences to us when we were on tour. He wrote
“ A daughter of mine who had come down here for
her vacation from the Boarding school was laid up
with typhoid. The case had become very serious
about the time I received your letter on account of
the hemorrages due to ulceration of the intestines.
The fever lasted exactly sixty days and twice her
life was despaired of. I thought of you and Mrs.
Rishi, but help came unexpectedly. I received a letter
from a friend of mine in which was enclosed a letter
from a lady who had received a message from my
120 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
son on the other side. It stated exactly how my
daughter’s malady would take the course and when
she would leave the bed. The day after, another
message from the same source and about the same
as the former was sent to me by another gentleman.
I am glad things turned out as stated in these two
messages. And yet ignorant men laugh at Spiritua­
lism.”
A SPIRIT ASKS FOR A CUP OF TEA.
On one occasion at Simla a departed girl expressed
a desire to have a cup of tea which was accordingly
placed m the seance-room. Of course there was no
reduction in the quantity, but we are repeatedly
told by the discarnate entities that they are
pleased by the things thus offered to them. They smell
them and are thereby satisfied. As in other matters,
one should not be dogmatic about such occurrences
and rely ^upon the statements received from those
who are in the next world. It would be worthwhile
to point out that the girl was very fond of tea and
could not have it as the doctors had prohibited her
during her last illness. The craving seems to have
been carried over and she accordingly expressed the
desire for a cup of tea.
A VIVID DREAM,
The girl had promised her grandmother that she
would meet her in dream. Precisely at the appointed
hour the lady heard distinct calls from the girl but
there could be no further talks as the lady woke up
with a vivid recollection of the girl’s voice. The fact
of her coming at that hour was confirmed by her in
subsequent messages received from her on the follow-
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 121
ing day. It is worthwhile to note that the lady
had no dream-experience like that since the passing
of the girl although she greatly yearned to meet her
•at least in dream.
A SPIRIT-GUARDIAN'S HELP.
A Medical Officer in one of the Himalayan
States was anxious to communicate with his
young son who passed away after a short illness
The boy could hardly write his name, but to our
.great surprise it was found that he had a guide with
him to help him. The guide stated his name as Bha-
gatram and mentioned that he had taken upon
himself the task of the child’s guardianship. He
expressed what the child wanted to communicate to
his father. We were told that the boy was not happy
in spite of his being in a high plane. The guide
being asked about the matter explained by saying
that the child often remembers his parents which
was the cause of his uneasiness. The father was very
anxious to have daily visits from his beloved son
and the boy also seemed eager for that, but could not
manage to do so. Regarding this the spirit-guardian
oft he boy expressed that he would not allow him to
-do so as in that case the boy would press him for
more visits which would be troublesome to the
guardian. Sometimes the messages of Bhagatram
the spirit-guide were highly philolosophical and
. greatly amazed all the sitters by their spontaneity
and gravity of thoughts. When asked as to why he
had taken up the work of acting as the guardian of
the boy said “ Do you know how a life-less kite
will fly ?” This was a suggestive reply which silenced
the questioner.
122 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
A SPIRIT CAUSES ELECTRIC SHOCKS.
On one occasion the guide was asked whether
his ward will be able to make his existence felt to
his father in some :way. He said that he will try
and asked the gentleman to wait for five minutes.
During the period the medical officer received electric
shocks in his left-hand fingers as promised. This
was a very striking incident which greatly impressed
all the sitters.
FRIVOLOUS SITTERS ADMONISHED.
Gravity in the sitters is greatly desired by the
spirit-friends. It is also essential for obtaining satis­
factory results in the seance. A gentleman in Simla was
strongly reprimanded by his father when he along
with other sitters could not be sufficiently serious
during the experiment. The communicating spirit
said to the sitters “ You are no better than asses.”
He was a grave man during his life-time and his
messages on other occasions were full of valuable
advice. Among other things he told his son “ Words
are easy but deeds are difficult. I wish you to do
some charity. I do not mean that you should spend
money like anything. But you should help those
who are helpless.”
A BROTHER’S ADVICE.
The brother of a gentleman in Simla gave him
very valuable advice regarding his earthly affairs. He
seemed quite in touch with his family matters and
expressed his solicitude for his relations. He was
ignorant of English, but the messages were being
delivered in that language. The anomaly was ex­
plained when we were told that he had a guide with
123.
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
him who was acting as his interpreter. Within
a few attempts the gentleman succeeded in obtaining
messages independently of our help. A few years
ago he had studied the subject to a certain extent,
but had several misconceptions owing to want of
proper guidance.
HELP BY A LITERATE SPIRIT.
The help of a literate spirit is sometimes nece­
ssary for knowing the ideas of those who could n ot:
write during their earthly life. A Sikh gentleman in
Simla was anxious to talk with his father but the latter
while living could write nothing besides his name.
The difficulty in obtaining messages was overcome-
by seeking the cooperation of a mutual friend, an
Englishman, who was a great benefactor of the
family. The father brought him to the seance-room
within five minutes, when the messages could bo
freely received from him on the Ouija Board. The
other spirit seemed very communicative and demon­
strated his identity by the style of his writing and.
other unmistakable signs.
INDIFFERENCE TO WORLDLy MAHERS.
The discarnate entities seem to attach little
importance to earthly things like their pictures, or
statues. A gentleman in Bombay while talking with
his beloved son asked him about his newly made picture.
Hereplied “ Father they are all colours. I am near you.” '
Similar expressions were several times obtained from
Subhadrabai when she was consulted about her bust.
which is kept in our room. She was quite indifferent
to that sort of memorial and did not express any
satisfaction on that account. These experiences go
to show that the erection of statues or other memorials,.
124 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
for the dead without caring to converse with them
is like running after the shadow neglecting the
substance.
INDIFFERENCE TO EARTHLY REMAINS.
One spirit in Karachi when asked about the trans­
ference of his earthly remains expressed his indifference
regarding the matter and said that he was no longer in
the grave. It is repeatedly experienced that discarnate
entities feel nothing regarding their physical eneve-
.lopes or earthly belongings.
NUMBER OF PLANES.
The departed persons usually mention the
«number of the plane in which'.they are living. When
asked about the total number, we are told that they
■are seven; but it is worthwhile to remember that
there are sections in each of them. In a
recent seance a spirit-friend staying in the seventh
plane stated that there are thirty sections in that
plane also. It will thus be clear that it is a vast world
and one should not be dogmatic about matters
pertaining to the next world.
PROOFS ABOUT THE IDENTITY OF A SPIRIT.
In one of our seances in Bombay a gentleman was
■very anxious to have convincing proofs about the iden­
tity of the communicating spirit. In particular he wanted
to know from his father something which he did not
know and which could not possibly come from his
■subconscious mind. He was successful in the attempts
and could learn from his father the things which
were known only to his sister. Among others
he stated that he had a mole on his back and that he
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 125»
had long talks with her about education. The in­
formation was duly communicated to his sister and
was admitted by her to be quite correct. The
gentleman was very young when he proceeded to
England for further studies and the father had been,
no more before his return.
VERIFICATION OF A SPIRIT-MESSAGE.
A gentleman from . Sind had come here once
with a view to attend our Seances. He could
get into touch with his dear wife who gave
him several consoling messages. Among other
things she mentioned the death of their cook also ■
whose name had never been thought of at that time.
In fact it was not known to anybody in the circle..
The gentleman himself did not know that the' cook
had passed away. On returning home inquiries were
made regarding the matter and it was found by him
quite correct as stated by his spirit-wife. He wrote-
“ I wonder whether you remember an incident which
happened in that very first sitting of mine at yours.
She had written that in addition to my sister-in-law
and my brother-in-law who had come with her there
was some one by name Haso who was once our cook.
at Banamli. On other occasions 1 had inquired,
from her in my sittings with you if I had followed
her correctly as regards our servant Haso. She had
emphatic ‘ Yes.’ On inquiry he too had said that he
died about six month ago ( i. e. December 1930 ).
I had never thought of that man at all and in fact:
never dreamt of hearing about him in my first sitting.
I was determined to make inquiries about him though
he belonged to a remote village. I am glad to
inform you that I succeeded and the facts have come...
126 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
out to be surprisingly true both as regards his death
and the time o£ its occurrence. To you perhaps it
might be one of the ordinary experiences, but for me
it has a special significance coming as it is by volition
of some one behind the scene. It seems to have been
■designed by some one unknown to me for my good
that I should have strong evidential proof of life
beyond the veil at my very first sitting.”
STRANGE EXPERIENCES.
A gentleman from Shrinagar (Behar) reported the
following communications from his brother. “ At Shree
Ayodhya, my brother had demanded Lichis. Here also
I asked him several times, and at all times he made
that demand. Yesterday I distributed 2000 Lichis to
the Brahmins, out of which 1500 were distributed
here and 500 were sent to Shree Ayodhya. This
morning I had invoked his spirit and when he was
asked as to how many Lichis he had got, he replied
that he had only 1500. I twice asked this question
and got the same answer. We were for some time
puzzled by this wrong figure, but at once it struck
us that only 1500 Lichis were actually distributed up
till now and 500 were on the way to Ayodhya. He
might have received 1500 only by this time and
might receive the balance 500 when they were taken
by the Brahmins there. As the entire 2000 Lichis
were offered to him by mouth here by the Panditji
they must by our old theory pass ofEto him, but it
does not seem to be true.”
A gentleman once reported his personal experie­
nce in spirit-communication. In his family circle,
be used to invoke spirits in a very crude way taking
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 127
the help as he said, of a primus stove. One day
he inquired from his spirit-friend, as to the time
when a particular person would come. The spirit
replied that he would arrive next day at 9 a. m.
This time having passed, they were rather puzzled
by the inaccuracy of the message- But the mystery
was solved when the person arrived home at about 2
p. m. and stated that he did reach the station at 9
a. m. but could not get a conveyance for finishing
the rest of the journey.
It will be remembered that Subhadrabai used to
communicate with us in our seances in Europe. In
this connection one of our members wrote to us as
follows. “ This experience recalls to my mind
somewhat remote but similar incident that happened
■on the shop of a Delhi Milkwala four yours ago. I
went to take milk on his shop, sat and drank the same,
sitting as he required me to do, on a bench just near
his shop. The scrupulously clean materials in the
milk-shop, curds and the utensils drew me next
evening for the same purpose there, when, to m y
surprise he asked “ Where is the young Gujrathi lady
in white dress who accompanied you yesterday also?”
I was naturally spell-bound. I now realise that spirits
must be aeompanying that way.”
A gentleman from Seoni wrote about his exper­
iences which are evidently very interesting. He was
a respectable officer there and was much interested in
this subject particularly after the phenomena
mentioned below. He wrote “ I was an Assistant
Health officer at J. I fell sick and left with my two
children and wife to a place where my uncle was
Assistant Engineer. One day while I was in privy, I
128 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
heard my aunt talking to my wife “ V (m y wife’s name)
now I have got 2 sons and 2 daughters, it is better to*
leave this world.” My wife replied “ Not so soon,” My
aunt said “ No, V, I am thinking seriously. ” My
wife replied “ Alright, then wait; we will together. ”
Aunt said “ You better bring up your daughter and
your sister-in-law ( my daughter ) as these two babies
were born at 4 days interval, and then you can follow
me.” I was keenly overhearing them and my wife
ultimately agreed to my aunt’s proposal. Time went
on till the day my aunt left this universe after
writing to me a letter that I should see her as
she would soon be leaving us all and I took her
word as usual as a fun. My wife many a time
persisted me to write to her and I thik after a month
or so of her death she brought pen, inkpot, paper and
requested me to pen down a few words. I could not
retain the secret and informed my wife that she was
dead. She breathed a deep sigh and addressing me
said “ Patiji, now I should leave this world; aunt had',
asked me to bring up her daughter, but I find m y
own daughter does not care for my help, how can I.
expect that other’s child would care for me. ”
Yes, I forgot one thing more to tell which is-
connected with this occurrence Once my wife had a
talk with me about our future journey and requested
me to accompany her when she leaves this world to
which I gave my consent.
Two months after the occurrence of the letter­
writing business she expired. Before her death she was
quiet for two days and at 9 p. m. or so she broke her
silence. Next morning she called me “ Patiji, Patiji,
(a term usually used by Punjabi Hindu ladies towards
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 129
their husbands) are you ready to accompany me ? Please
be ready to leave this world with me. -I replied ” V , I
remember my words but what about these children?
You have step-mother, I have step-mother, who
would look after them?” She calmly replied “ A l­
right, we will meet again.” Then she cried out
“ Chachiji’ Chachiji, ( aunt, aunt) I am coming,
I am coming,” and next morning she left us.”
A gentleman from Lucknow wrote “ With
regret I inform you that my house at Mirzapur is
haunted by an evil spirit for the last seven months.
The *whole damage is estimated to be a thou­
sand and the life of a newly born child. In the
beginning it started with the pelting of stones, bricks,
clay and other things. Then the things of the house
began to* disappear and some were thrown one by one
after intervals. Things went on like this for
sometime. The things which are put in locked boxes
and almiras come out and are thrown in the court­
yard of the house. Cushions, gaddas, blankets,
claries and other clothes were burnt to ashes. The
cloth put in a box catches fire. The things put in an
almira come out of their own accord. Sometimes you
see that man’s refuse is thrown here and there in the
house. Everyday such things occur. How there is
pelting of very huge stones ? Nothing is safe in the
house. The things disappear before the eyes, having
gone very rapidly. We were compelled to vacate
the house.”
Another friend from Sibsagar (Assam) reported
“ There is an interesting case of spirit in the Lakhim-
pur district of Assam in the North Eastecti frontier. T
130 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
One Brahmin, Denti Sarma by name died o£
■cholera a few months ago in a village near North
Lakhimpur town, Assam. Since the time of his
death, there are regular throwings of stones and
other materials in the family. The deceased has a
son. One day while the son was resting in his
room at night the spirit came to him and addressed
his son thus, ‘ My son, call my friends so and so to
our home tomorrow as I have to tell them some
thing.’ The voice was not uttered in a dream and
the son could hear the voice of his father and
recognised it as that of his father. Next day one
of his friends came as requested by the spirit and
waited to hear his words. The spirit again delivered
the message at night thus, ‘ Dear friend, I am the
spirit of Denti Sarma. I am, to speak the truth,
Denti Sarma your friend. I died of cholera. You
burnt my body. The king of hell Yama sent me
back saying that it was not the exact time of my
death. When I returned I found my body gone.
Now I am a restless spirit. The dead do not take
me to their fold, nor do the living. So;please enter­
tain some Brahmins for me if I can get peace of
mind. I have got a body now but you will be
frightened by its sight.
Many leading men of the village heard the
words of the spirit for many days. Brahman Bhojan
was done and the pelting of stones has ceased. ”
INTRUSION BY UNDESIRED SPIRITS
In our endeavours to converse with our spirit-
friends, we occasionally come across undesired entities,
who interfere while others are communicating and
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 131
•even impersonate them. This is a great stumbling
block in the way of some experimenters who are at
times greatly harassed by annoying intrusions from
the other world. For want of a good guide in the
unseen regions they are much handicapped and feel
helpless in the matter. It seems that these earnest
persons are anxious to get rid of the undesired
visitors, but no argument or prayers have any
effect upon such denizens of the next world, whose
intrusions are usually meant to harass those through
whom they are communicating their thoughts.
A lady known to us while experimenting at her
home for spirit communication happened to get into
touch with the spirit of a gentleman who was staying
in Bombay in the same building and had committed
suicide. After his death he began to communicate
through her and was to be found whenever she tried
the Ouija Board. Inspite of her persistent requests
he would not leave her and would personate other
spirits also. His messages were sometimes full of
filthy language which no good spirit would ever use.
The lady prayed for Mm, implicitly carried out
his wishes and faithfully conveyed his messages to
his relatives. But these services, it seems, had no
effect upon him and the lady felt quite disgusted
with the spirit as well as his messages. In vain she
tried to free herself from this undesired entity wMch
had become to her a great nuisance.
The spirit was a moneyed man during Ms life-time,
and having lost his fortune had committed suicide
nearly a month before. His death was a surprise to
132 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
Ms relatives and friends who were shocked by the
tragedy. The lady wanted to consult Oka in the-
matter and attended the seances after a long absence.
She thought that the spirit also might be there, but
it was not so and Oka said “ Call him here. I shall
see to it.” After a few minutes he was there and
wrote “ Oh my Lord. I lost everything. I am going
on as others. I thought that the lady knows the
ways of communication, and so I used to go there.
My son is a fool in not minding my messages. This
is not my fault. I told you my thoughts. You see
death'.is good for poor persons. When I was a rich
man, nobody said bad words to me. People use to
praise me of course for money.”
With regard to the intrusion very interesting
communications were subsequently obtained. It
appeared that Oka helped the lady as promised in
freeing her from the trouble and she gratefully
acknowledged his services. Thereupon he said “ I
have been always telling you to believe in me. N o
body can do anything before me” .
The lady again tried at home but experienced
some trouble from the same entity, whereupon in his
talks Oka said “ I have come to know about it.
W hy did you try at home when I had warned you
not to do so? I am explaining to that gentleman.
If any one were to impersonate me ask for my code­
word “ SANDAL ” but I say “ Dont try at home
tall I advise you to that efiect. I am not permanently
proMbiting you” .
HOW TO AVOID HARMFUL SPIRITS.
In this connection the following message
received by a friend from Ms wife will be found
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 133
interesting. She said “ People who have led a
very sinful life on earth, after their death are taken to
the lowest places of the spiritual world. There they
continue to lead the same life of sinfulness which
they led in the physical world. They do not get as
much satisfaction from such a life as they get while
on earth and thus they try to form a contact with
your plane- They are the forces of evil that do a lot
of harm to people. Their force is all the greater
because people are more inclined to follow their lead
than the advice of higher spirits. They are to be
hated and despised for their low work of beguiling
others. Higher spirits constantly keep an eye on
such lower ones and try to dissuade them from their
path. The power of such spirits may become useless
only if humanity were to give up their sefishness and
hatred for one another. Whenever man has tried
seriously to overcome these lower spirits God and
His Angels have helped him. Higher spirits keep a
sharp eye on humanity and try to save it from these
lower spirits. Your own will to be free from the
clutches of such low spirits turns you to the good
advice of the higher spirits. Your own efforts may
guard you against such spirits and in these efforts
God and the higher spirits will help you. Man is
a free being and he has full liberty to go one way
or the other. Whatever way he goes he finds those
who may lead him that way. The human desire to
go the wrong way gives a great impetus to such
harmful spirits. They could be overpowered by the
strong desire of man to be on the right path. Man
may himself drive them away by ignoring them.
Prayers and constant contact with higher spirits has
helped many to get rid of them .”
134 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
VISIT TO A CLAIRVOYANT.
In connection with, our visit to a clairvoyant
who had come to Bombay, Subhadrabai gave .the
following message. She said “ How did all feel
yesterday? All of us first came here and then
accompanied you to the place. Oka brought H., his-
father and Adi. He was the first to come here.
There was a Parsi lady and two more unknown,
spirits. The son of Mr. K. was also there. He was
greatly disappointed. He thought that he might
please his parents. First he stood near his father, then,
near his mother, and after that near the other lady
also who was there. Oka had been to bring Mr. K ’s
wife and did bring her. She has much regard for
Oka. There was an old man near that lady (Mrs..
Hawker) I don’t know what power she possesses.
We did not come to the steamer.”
Two days later Oka communicated “ W e had
come as promised. There is an invisible entity to
help her. I was standing behind you. The beard to
which she referred was not a long one. It was just
near the chin. I can’t say what she spoke in English.
Her clairvoyance is not sufficiently clear.”
SPIRIT HELP.
The possibility of spirit-friend's helping us in
our difficulties was noticed from a message received
on one occasion from Dr. Abraham. His brother
Dr. Ezekiel had a wound on his thumb and he feared
that it might become serious leading to blood-poi­
soning. The usual medical treatment was followed
and the wound was healed within a fortnight. Dr.
Abraham, his brother in the spirit-world when
asked as to whether any help was rendered by him
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 135
in effecting the cure stated that he used to hold an
herb before his brother’s nose when the latter was
asleep. This greatly expedited, as the spirit said,
the healing of the wound- The message was quite
unexpected particularly because it was delivered by a
spirit who was himself a medical man.
A Parsi lady who had lost her daughter was
inordinately desiring to have her grand-children with
her. They were staying with her son-in-law, but on
account of certain difference of opinion between the
two he did not let the children meet their grand­
mother. In a seance the deceased daughter
had told her mother that she would see that the
children were restored to her. We had forgotten all
about the matter. But once the lady came to us and
delightfully reported that what her daughter
promised had happened and the children were now
with her. The spirit appeared to her husband in
dream and said that the wrath of heaven would be
upon him if the mother-in-law was not allowed
to visit her children. The frightened husband sent
for the mother-in-law next morning and restored the
children to her. The message thus proved true,
though not within the time mentioned by the spirit.
SPIRIT TROUBLE
Just as there are instances of spirit help we
occasionally hear of cases wherein malevolent discar-
nate beings harm the living. The continuity of life
being true, there is nothing strange in such pheno­
mena. A gentleman from Behar reported a remark­
able case of spirit-trouble. He said “ My wife has
been a prey to some evil spirit for about a year and
136 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
almost every night she is haunted ( though sleeping
with me ) by horrible dreams which terrifies her to
heart. She feels ( in dream ) as if a young man
comes over her bed and snatches her to his lap. A
few nights ago she felt that the very same man came
to her bed and wrung her wrist so much so that in
the morning she evidently found her wrist swollen
and also felt some pain in it- She cannot sit alone in
her room even in the day or at night for she feels
alarmed. Besides, of late she has been suffering from
a very bad type of headache, which begins very often
and she complains of her palms and feet to be burning
even in cold water. All sorts of medical aid have,
been sought without any fruit.”
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
A sittter narrated to us a very strange expe­
rience which she had regarding the materialisation of
a spirit. She stated that she .saw in her house
a figure like that ot a beggar woman. It was
as^ clear and life-like as that of a living human
being. At the outset she thought that some one
might have come to beg at her door and remonstrated
with her under that supposition. But after a short
time the figure vanished and there was no body to be
seen at the place. That was a novel experience and
the first of its kind in her life time. It was confirmed
by another relative of hers who also saw the figure
on another occasion. So there can be no doubt of the
reality of the phenomena, as two independent
witnesses corroborated the fact.
The late Mr. V. G
r. Apte, a well-known author
from Poona, reported to us that on two occasions he
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 137
•could have the vision and a face to .face talk with his
•deceased daughter. A year after her death, the spirit
manifested in the early hours of the morning and sat
■ona chair just opposite to him. At first he was
puzzled by the vision, but having clearly perceived
the figure he was tempted to put questions to her,
which strange as it may seem, were answered by the
•
spirit. She narrated how she was induced to visit
her home, inquired about her father’s health, but
seemed disinclined to see any of her other relatives.
She stated that they were not fit to see her, but
-could not explain the cause of their incapacity.
A friend from Ambala reported the following
■experience which he had in connection with his
•departed wife. On one occasion she had given some
-consoling masages to him and it seemed that she
was anxious to give more proofs of her existence.
He wrote “ One night I was lying in the bed at about
11 O’clock with my eyes shut. Actually I was not
sleeping but waking and I felt that somebody lifted
the mosquito-net and to my astonishment I found
that she was m y wife. I enquired from her as to
what she wanted, but when I opened my eyes I
found nobody.”
THIRSTY SPIRITS
One evening a strange spirit without disclosing
his name or identity simply wrote “ I am some body.
I want a glass of water.” When asked how to give
it to him, he said “ Keep it below the Table.” This
' being done he stated after a few minutes that he felt
satisfied and left the room bidding good-bye to the
•sitters. All persons attending the seance were quite
138 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
surprised by the communication and were curious to
know the name o£ the spirit or to have some infor­
mation regarding him. Adi, a familiar spirit-friend
who began to communicate after him was asked about
the matter, whereupon he stated that he met the
strange visitor in the door of the room but did not
know him. He added that he was a Hindu, and had
casually come there. He explained by saying that
some have those feelings and they are provided with
these things by the G-urus in the next world.
W hile conversing with the spirit of a young
Muslim in Karachi he expressed that he was feeling
thirsty and pointed out that water should be given
to priests whereby he would be satisfied. During his
last illness he was feeling very thirsty and possibly
that craving might have troubled him.
A SPIRIT’S RING.
W e were once told about a spirit by another-
familiar entity that the former had a small box w ith.
a blue ring in it. It was stated that he had kept it with
him as in his opinion it would ward off all troubles.
The information was quite surprising and unexpect­
ed. Some persons have a belief that such articles can
ward off calamities, and the same idea being carried
over, an individual may possess such articles o f'
etheric matter, as the counterparts of some of our •
desired objects can be found in the next world.
A CURIOUS COMMUNICATION.
The interest of the sitters was unexpectedly
roused one evening by a spirit who came to commu­
nicate after about nine years. He was a Mohamedan.
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 139-
spirit and had sometimes conversed with us when we
were at Indore. His grave was just beneath the-
house in which we were living and he had given a.
funny name ‘ Kal-ki-Dupher5 (Yesterday’s noon).
That evening when none of us had the least idea he-
made his appearance and wrote his message in fine-
Hindi. One of the sitters asked him to explain the-
reason why he had assumed such a funny name*,
whereupon he gave a long explanation pointing
out the circumstances which led him to be called
like that. He said “ I was born at 12 noon-
I had an uncle who had no information about m y
birth. Next morning when uncle came and inquired
from father “ What is the news?” He replied ‘ It is.
ready. Do you want to see?” He was of a humour­
ous temperament and in reply to my uucle’s question,
told him Kal-Ki-Dufer. Since then I have been
known by that name.”
When asked as to how he happened to come at.
that hour he replied that he was casually passing,
that way and stepped in having heard our invocation-
We were having a general evocation, and it seems
that the thoughts of the sitters produced a ringing,
analogous to that of the ringing of a Telephone. The
entire communication greatly impressed all the sitters,,
who, a few minutes before, were much discouraged
owing to the absence of any marked phenomena.
A WIFE'S UNABATED LOVE.
The unabated love and anxiety of a wife was
noticed in a seance when she expressed that she was
very sorry for her inability to serve him fully
during her life time. She said that she was praying
140 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
for his happiness and welfare. She desired that her
husband should try to communicate with her at least
-once a week and gave him some remarkable hints
regarding the conduct of one of his relatives. The
•seance was held in the room in which she was living,
•and she said “ This is my room. Is it not? ” As the
sitting was held after a very long period extending
•over several months,we thought that she might not
have pome during the interval. But to our great
-surprise we found from her statement that she had
visited her husband eighteen days before the seance.
It is very deplorable that the living should be indi­
fferent towards the dead. The latter never forget
•their dear ones and occasionally visit them, although
we are not aware of them.
TOUCHING COMMUNICATIONS.
A Parsi gentleman who had the misfortune of
losing his wife, under very tragic circumstances,
attempted to communicate with her and got very good
Jesuits. The spirit proved her existence in a striking
manner when the loving husband, with tears in his
•eyes spoke to her that he was feeling all alone. She
replied ^‘How do you say so when I am always with
you? First stop your tears and I shall say something
¡more. I am greatly pained to see your grief. I am
very anxious for you. I do not want anything to be
done for my sake. I want only the same love.
I pray for myself as well as for you. The unsuccess­
ful operation was due to my misfortune as well as
yours. A peculiar feature of the seance was that
■several times the Indicator used :to move towards the
gentleman with great force and the spirit was un­
willing to dose the conversation for a long time.
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 141
EAGERNESS OF COMMUNICATION.
The eagerness of .spirits to communicate with
their friends on earth is experienced on several occa­
sions. It is to be regretted that the majority o f
people do not realise this grand truth. On one-
occasion a spirit implored his son to try once a.
week at least to communicate with him. When,
his son expressed the difficulty of want of time he-
suggested that if he could not sit himself he may try-
through his brother who had more leisure. Such
incidents are quite common in Spiritualism and hence-
the Spiritualists always insist upon not forgetting our-
beloved dead.
DIAGNOSIS B y A SPIRIT-DOCTOR.
Dr. Abraham, a spirit doctor, when requested to-
diagnose the disease of a patient asked the gentleman
to keep his legs straight and palms of his hand upside-
down. Having done this he advised us to wait fo r
five minutes so that he might examine him. After-
the interval he said “ Yes, I have seen him. I may
say that his disease would not be radically cured,,
but he may have temporary relief if he tries the
following treatment.” Thereupon he suggested some-
salts and the way in which their doses were to be­
taken. All the sitters agreed about the utility of the
prescribed treatment.
The patient had been suffering for several years-
from ¿gastric troubles and no living doctor had
been able to relieve his acute pain. The spirit:,
added that the trouble was due to the strain, caused
to the skin by the accumulation of gases" in the;
stomach and not to any organic disorder.
142 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
A WIFE'S ANXIETY.
On one occasion a lady gave the following
message to her husband. “ I have come to give you
a message. Go, and your work will be very
successful. By doing it you will engage your
mind- At any rate you will be very well benefitted.
You are a different man from what others think
about you. Tell Mama that S. is the man I used to
talk about. Look after him well. He is the backbone of
the family. Nurse him as I used to do. You see
his condition. What a robust man he was when I
looked after him ! Look at this condition now.
Don’t leave him alone when he comes in the house.
Try to while away his time by talking and spending
your time with him. He is the support of the family.
If he breaks down in health you are all doomed. I
am looking after you from here, but some body must
look after you in your world. Cheer up to be
the ‘.former S. friend to gentle and helper to so
many in the physical world, a philanthropist and a
lover of human beings. I have been helping you by
constant prayers. I have gone to higher spheres.
What more can I do? Do not worry about me. I will
wait here to meet you one day. ”
A MOTHER'S INSISTENCE
The mother of one of the sitters insisted so
much upon his marriage that she would not allow the
seance to be closed until she got an assurance from
him that he would marry this year. No argument
-could induce her to change hermind and she would not
.allow him even a week to deliberate over the matter.
The seance lasted for over an hour during which
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 143
period, she evinced her interest in her son by men­
tioning several facts of her identity.
EXPERIMENTS WITH CALL-BELL
For a long time no experiments could be held
•with the apparatus as the necessary changes were
being made in it as suggested by our spirit friends
as well as the living ones. When it was ready Adi
promised to ring the Bell while it was covered with
glass-case. The cover is intended to prevent any air
from interfering with the phenomena. He said that
it would take about fifteen minutes to ring it. We
waited for the period but there was no ringing
although all the sitters nearly fifteen in number, were
earnestly waiting for it. He was then requested to
try while the glass-case was taken off from the
apparatus. All the windows in the room were closed
in order to stop the outside air and noise, when after
fifteen minutes the Bell rang to the satisfaction of all
the sitters. It rang about half a dozen times and
was heard by all the persons in the room who were
-quite convinced about the genuineness of the pheno­
mena
After we had closed the seance and all the
visitors had left, the Bell rang once while the glass-
case was on it. It was very evidential and we thought
our spirit-friend Oka, might have come. He was
earnestly expected at the seance by all the sitters,
but was somehow absent. On resorting to the
Ouija-Board it was found that he was there and had
waited for over twenty minutes. As there was no
idea about his coming after the seance was closed
he tried to ring the Bell and thus indicated his pre-
144 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
sence. But for the ringing, it would have been
impossible for us to know his coming. The aim o f
the Call-Bell was thus amply justified by the pheno­
mena which we could witness so far. He said that
he was busy and hence could not come at the time of
the seance.
On one occasion we were surprised to hear
the ringing of the bell ■at 3-BO a. m. The
apparatus was covered in the glass-case and still
the ringing commenced and continued till about
fifteen strokes were distinctly counted. We were fast
asleep along with three other guests at that calm
hour of the morning when the ringing commenced.
At first it was thought that the sound might be due
to the hour-strokes of some clock, but when it went
on for more than five or six times all the persons in
the room woke up with great astonishment, and
began to ask one another about it. Everybody was
quite convinced about the automatic ringing of the
Bell and it was evident that some spirit was trying
to indicate its presence at that early hour of the
morning. Fifteen times the Bell rang and stopped
of its own accord, causing a great surprise to all the
inmates of the room.
Next morning at about seven O’clock, Ouija
Board was tried when Subhadrabai was as usual the
first to communicate. It was imagined ithat she
might have rung the Bell, but she replied in negative.
Another spirit was present at that time and stated
that he tried the Bell at that time and demonstrated
his coming. It was indeed a novel experience
which would bring conviction to any sceptic. W hy
the spirit chose that method, and how he succeeded in
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 145
his efforts passed our comprehension.
The Bell rang again on one more occasion at 4 a. m.
automatically just as reported above.. This time it
rang once only although we thought that the ringing
might continue a number o£ times as on the last
occasion. In the seance on. the following morning
we could not get any clue about the spirit who tried
to ring the Bell. Subhadrabai stated that she was
not there at that time and she had no idea about the
experience.
On the eve of our departure to Sind, the Call-
Bell was rung by a spirit known to two ladies who
had specially come down to Bombay from Katni.
The spirit was a lad of 16 at the time of his death
and had been very active and intelligent. During
our visit to Katni we had held some seances
for conversing with him when he had strikingly
proved his identity. The family made further
attempts to communicate with him and got
excellent results in their experiments. Prior to their
coming to Bombay the spirit had told his mother and
sister that they will be able to meet us, and strange
as it may seem they came to us on the very day on
which we had decided to proceed to Hyderabad. Just
after their coming they inquired about the working
of the Call-Bell, which being shown to them was
rung repeatedly by the spirit.
TALKS WITH A SAINT.
One morning we had the pleasure of conversing
with the late Maharaja of Akkalkot in South India.
A Member desired to have a talk with him and seek his
advice. Her departed brother had promised to
bring him at the seance held that morning: Punctu-
146 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
ally at the promised hour both of them were present
in the seance-room. We were told that they
had been following the sitters for about an hour.
The saint gave his blessings to the sitters and advised
her about some personal matters. The language and
thoughts in the message were so characteristic that
none could doubt the identity of the communicating
spirit.
A SPIRIT EXPLAINS SPLATTERING.
A lady while communicating with her departed
brother was told by him that her nature was
splatteirng. This was rather an uncommon word
and we had to refer to dictionary for its meaning.
Having done that he retired without any further
messages. This was very striking as the lady also
was not taking part in the seance when her brother
expressed his desire to talk with her.
HAUNTED HOUSES.
On one occasion in Bombay we had the
opportunity of witnessing some phenomena which
demonstrated the attachment of some spirits to the
places which they liked during their life-time. A
seance was held in a house ostensibly with the idea
of getting into touch with the relatives of the sitters;
but we found that the departed owner of the house
desired to communicate and would not allow any other
spirit to do so. Usually we get messages from our
dear ones on the other side of life; but this was a
novel experience- The house was purchased by a
gentleman, and he never thought that the previous
landlord would come to communicate in the seance.
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 147
All the sitters in the circle ardently prayed that one
o£ their relatives should favour them with a message;
but in Automatic writing the name of the desired
spirit was not obtained. In fact the spirit at first
refused to disclose his name and pertinently asked us
not to bother about it. He would not mind our
requests and began to talk at random. After some
time he admitted that he was the owner of the house
and was very fond of the room where the seance was
held- He seemed to be still attached to the place
which he so much liked during his life-time; and that
must have been the reason for his coming so readily
even without any invocation. Very probably the
other spirits who might have come there to commu­
nicate with their relatives, might have been prevented
by him from doing so. He said that he did not want
anything to be done for his sake, but was there
simply out of the attachment for the place. He was
a medical man well-known in the locality. W hy he
should have taken a fancy for the place is difficult
to explain, but the experience was at any rate very
interesting. The seance was closed after a brief talk
with the spirit, as it was impossible to communicate
with the desired ones.
Subhadrabai when asked about the above point
said “ Such spirits are not always wicked. Many of
them are good ones also. What I mean Is that those
who still love a thing or place, stay near the earth-
plane and can carry on their daily routine. If any
body goes to the place, they trouble him a little with
a view to guard it. Otherwise they do not molest
any one. This is due to their attachment for the
place.”
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
148
DISCIPLINE IN THE NEXT WORLD.
Oka had helped one of the sitters by punishing
a mischievous spirit thus removing the trouble at
her place. At a subsequent sitting we were surprised
to learn from another spirit friend that Oka had to
suffer for this benevolent deed. We could not believe
this statement, but he repeatedly assured us that it
was a fact. Oka was also present there and when
asked to explain this mystery wrote in his humourous
way. “ I was continuously making signs asking him
not to disclose the secret. But he would not even
look at me. I am ready to suffer any thing for others.
I would not mind any trouble for this sake. The
reason why I was punished is that I as it were took
the law in my own hands and dealt with the mis­
creant without obtaining permission from the Guru.
The lawB of this world require such a permission
before taking any steps. So my suffering was but
natural as discipline had to be observed.” Neither
he nor the other spirit-friends would disclose the
nature of the punishment though repeatedly asked to
do so. It sounds very strange that one should have
to suffer for such benevolent deeds, but we have to
take the facts as they are.
CHILDREN IN THE SPIRIT-WORLD.
On one occasion a gentleman who had the
misfortune of losing his child only four days back
desired to know something about it which was only
nine months old at the time of death. He was told
that it was not possible to have a direct talk with
the child, but information regarding it can be
obtained from his deceased relatives. In the seance
his father came to communicate with him and stated
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
that the child was in the room and .quite happy.
He pointed out the comer of the room where it was
standing which position was rather at a distance
from the sitters. The gentleman’s servant was in the
room and it was anticipated that the child being
very fond of the servant, it might have stood there,
but he explained that the gentleman’s deceased
mother-in-law was present and had taken the child
with her. All the information was of course quite
incomprehensible and unexpected.
My experiences regarding the fate of
children in After-life corroborate the one mentioned
above. My dear daughter Pramila passed over when
she was hardly a year old. For several years I did
not expect that she would be- able to communicate
with me but to my great surprise one day she
appeared and stated that she had grown up in the
spirit-world and was attending a school and had
learnt many things which to us seem quite un­
necessary.
On one occasion we had an opportunity of
inquiring about a child who passed over when it was
only one year old. The bereaved parents deeply
felt the loss as the death was tragic and sudden.
The child swallowed a chestnut which obstructed its
breathing, and collapsed due to suffocation. Life
was extinct before any medical aid could be obtained.
In the seance we were told by the deceased grand­
father of the child that it was being looked after by
its grandmother in the spirit-world. All the three
had come there and the conversation was very
instructive. It was stated that the child was crying
and remembering its mother. When asked whether
ISO INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
anything could be done to please it, the parents-
who were taking part in the seance, were told that
they need not do anything and that Parvati (decea­
sed grand-mother) was doing all that was necessary-
CAN LIVING PERSONS BE INVOKED ?
A gentleman reported to us that he had been
told that his child was the incarnated spirit of his
father, and the former was the Amsha ( part ) of the
latter. In a seance which we had with him
his father was present and gave messages in the
usual way. This was rather puzzling to the gentle-
tman and consequently Oka was asked about the
mystery. He gave a pretty long discourse on the
point and satisfied all doubts regarding the matter.
He said “ It might not be his incarnation. Please
explain clearly what you mean. ” Thereupon the
gentleman narrated the facts in English and
explained the point. Instead of giving a reply, as
desired by all the sitters, Oka expressed in Marathi
as usual “ What’s this? I am not an Englishman.
Kindly speak the mother-tongue. This was acco­
rdingly done, upon which he thus continued his
talk “ Now I have understood the whole matter.
Just listen. This is called Desire-birth. Those'
who intently wish to return to earth before their
time, manage in this way. It is necessary to obtain
permission for such things. They can get their
desires fulfilled in this way. This is a proposition
which people cannot easily understand. But it is
possible. There is no change in the appearance oF
the spirit by this. ” ( Is the child the incarnation
of his father?) “ Please don’t interrupt. I shall
myself finish what I have to say. Don’t change the
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 151
point. Don’t leave your seat as it weakens the
power. The thing is that his father having power
to a slightlly greater extent can enter the child’s
body whenever he likes and can afterwards return
to the spirit-world. That is my explanation. ”
Referring to a sitter who was about to go and had
left his seat in he middle of the talk he said “ Now
let him go. ”
After some discussion among the sitters regard­
ing the Amsha theory he expressed “ What shall I
say now? Can you define Amsha (part)? Just listen.
In this respect the following signs can indicate
whether a particular person has the Amsha or is the
incarnation of another spirit. His general beha­
viour, nature, way of talking, any bodily sign, or his
complexion will be useful in determining it. Don’t
make any confusion. If the child is below seven
years it will be known later on. Till then itis like
living in cognito. If he be of seven years then of
course it should be possible to know.”
FATHER'S ENCOURAGEMENT.
For a considerable period I was longing to
have a talk with my parents. As they had not come
of their own accord I had asked Subhadrabai to bring
them with her. They were kind enough to come
with her and my father gave much valuable advice
about personal matters. Among other things he
emphasised the need of forbearance and cheerfulness.
He reiterated that he was occasionally visiting me
although I was not aware of it.
On another occasion he said “ You have to do much
work. Don’t be discouraged. Courage is the ideal
152 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
for every one. T on can understand every thing from
this. Just as a Kshatriya’s ideal is to show his
prowess similarly courage is the goal for an intelli­
gent and educated person. I am pleased by your
work.”
PIT-FALLS OF COMMUNICATIONS.
During our stay in Delhi we could once witness
a tragic case of obsession which clearly brings home
the pit-falls of spirit-communication. The following
facts stated by the son of the gentleman will enable
the readers to know the full story which is very
touching as well as instructive. He wrote:—
“ Two years ago my elder brother aged 23 years
died leaving a widow behind. My father who
loved him much felt this loss to a great extent, but
he could manage to console his mind. After
a year of his death he came across with a friend of
his who suggested him to procure a planchette and
told him that the instrument would enable him to
talk with the deceased’s soul. He accordingly got
one and commenced practice. My younger sister
of 12 years worked as medium. The spirit was
called twice a day and my father used to exchange
love talks. He also used to get information regarding
the clue of lost articles and they proved to be
correct.
One day the spirit said that, that day Saraswati
and Lakshmi Devis were also with him and he him­
self had become god Mahesh. My father taking it to
be true commenced preparing delicious dishes, and
daily offering to the above gods. These dishes were
.placed in a neat and clean place and the gods were
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 153
requested to descend and dine. After a while a
message used to come, “ We have taken and are
•satisfied and now you dine.” It is needless to men­
tion here that the quantity in dishes never decreased.
This process continued for about 3 months' both
morning and evening. Occasionally during the above
period the spirits used to say that they would hold
dance of fairies and we accordingly in order to please
these gods used to join them by playing on music,
and singing, but we could not see their dance or hear
their music.
So far all these happenings proved to be a great
amusement to all of us and my father was fully
convinced of what was going on as nothing but
reality.
He then began to sit at one place hours together
and concentrate his mind on those spirits. In the
office also he would devote some time and in that
state of mind he used to feel that the spirit was
saying that such and such sweets or eatables would
be presented to them on that day. That was com­
plied with accordingly.
One day at about noon my father when he was
on the way home from office felt an inclination to
go far away and accordingly he turned towards the
jungle and reached a solitary and unfrequented por­
tion of the jungle at a distance of 6 miles. In the
way he lost all ideas as to who he was and whether he
had got family or not. In the jungle he sat down
at one place and began to meditate. He remained
there till 11 o’clock of the next day. What he
154 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
felt in that state is a mystery as it has not been,
disclosed. He sat there absent-minded. However-
one or two things which escaped his lips are as-
follows:—
1. He saw the back of the deceased’s body
and ran after to catch hold of it but in vain. The
spirit disappeared.
2. Three men visited him and removed all his
money, watch3 fountain pen etc. from his pockets
and also gave a Lathi blow which however, did not
fall upon him as the same was checked by his walk­
ing stick which was with him at that time rising
above of its own accord.
We after much difficulty could find trace of
our father and brought him back to home. He did
not recognise us at that time. Doctors and Spirtiual-
ists were called for to examine him and to treat him
but the patient took them to task and they all went
away. To us he said that he was J. ( deceased’s
name ) and would take care of himself. We did not
care much further and father reverted to his previous
state of mind after a fortnight.
After this occurrence he was occasionally seen to
be talking this thing and that thing and -saying that
he was god Mahesh and that Lakshmi and Saraswati
Devis were with him and that they would raise our
family to a more prosperous state. In the beginning
this state of mind lasted for only a couple of minutes
a day but as time passed on, the time as well as
the number of occurrences increased. How for the
last 2 weeks he, day and night repeats the above said.
sentences but. he sometimes talks very seriously. All,-
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 155
his movements seem to be controlled by some spirit
as he does all his daily duties i. e. calls o£ nature and
other things after he receives commands such as now
the Mahesh orders me to do this thing. He refrains-
doing anything, even going to sleep if he is forbidden-
When however he is in a better mood and is a bit
late in carrying out the command he receives a very
painful electric-like shock. He says also that they
(spirits) would kill him.
He takes his food as usual but there is a notice­
able decrease in the quantity. Occasionally he tests
the food as mixed with poison and would not take it.
He was not in the habit of taking meat but for the
last ten days he demands meat preparations and this-
demand is complied with.
He does not sleep or say cannot sleep as his mind
is also active. He takes his bath as usual. For the
last 10 days he is more or less confined to bed.
My father is a graduate and is a Post-master-
He is of about 50 years and possesses a good health.
Many doctors and Spiritualists have been consulted
but his condition is not improving. He rather
becomes hot and enraged when any doctor or Spiri­
tualist comes to him. ”
When we went to see him he was raving rank
nonsense and seemed obsessed with the idea o f
unlimited powers of the spirits that haunted him. The
most pitiable part was that in some moments of
lucidity he was aware of his plight and would fain get
rid of the trouble. No amount of persuasion or
argument could influence him in any way and it
appeared that he was doomed to suffer for what he took
156 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
:so lightly. The whole family was naturally stricken
with sorrow as he was their main-stay. This is a
warning and an eye-opener to those who try these
methods unsystematically without caring to have
some preparatory knowledge. It reflects no discredit
on the subject but on the persons who practise it in
an unscientific manner.
CASUAL TALKS.
On one occasion Oka was asked the following
questions.
Q :— How spirits manage to avoid the sight of an
undesirable thing?
A :-—We can do so in various ways, and can inflict
punishment also. You will not be able to under­
stand it.
Q:— What do you think of mind and will?
A : I ask “ Do you consider mind a thing? Tell
me the difference between mind and will. Mind is
fickle. Is it possible to have a desire unless the mind
entertains it? Don’t waste time in looking at one
another’s faces. First speak with me and then talk
among yourselves. This is the student’s attitude.
Let anybody speak. Explain to me in Marathi what
the other man was speaking in English. One should
not leave the efforts for self-control till he succeeds
an carrying out his resolutions.”
The conversation lasted for a long time and was
very lively. All the sitters were in a mood to close
the seance but he would not let them do so. Some
•
<
>
1
1
6 had just put a question while he was delivering
"the message. All of us had forgotton about it, but
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 157"
it seemed that Oka had kept it in mind, as he persist­
ently asked about it.
A visitor wanted to know whether the spirits
can tell the score o£ cricket runs in Australia. Apropos
that question Oka said “ W hy can you not eat salt
only? One can’t descend all steps at once.” That
was indeed a pertinent reply and silenced the ques­
tioner. It seemed that the long conversation had
much tired him and he admitted that the power had.
waned and he wanted to retire.
One evening Subhadrabai appeared and stated as
follows “ Do you know what a fun happened today?
It still makes me laugh. Today Oka met an individual.
It was a fine match. Oka asked him “ Sir? may I
know your name ?” Upon which he replied ‘Boy,
what have you to do with my name? W e are
ascetics practising penance in a forest. Please tell me
what you want. Upon that Oka said I wish to see
Dharmatmas ( High spirits ) and to have the power
of invoking any one whom I like. He replied ‘ Be it
so,’ and became invisible. But Oka was standing
before him with closed eyes and folded hands.
When he opened his eyes he was surprised to find
no body there. He came to me to unravel the
mystery. He thinks that it would have been very
nice if God had bestowed us with all powers. How
a days he is trying to see great persons in.
Spirit-world.”
CAN ANIMALS BE EVOKED ?
Some persons are very fond of their pet dogs-
or other animals, and when the latter die they
naturally feel for them. They yearn to know
158 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
something about their welfare and inquire whether
their spirits can be evoked. A gentleman came to
us and inquired about his pet dog, upon which we
advised him to get into touch with his departed
relatives who might give him some information
about it. The evocation of the dog itself was out of
question as can be gathered from the experiences
obtained by other persons. The information about
the existence of some animals in the spirit-world
does not seem to be uniform but all are agreed
about the impossibility of their communicating
with us.
It seems that some animals have the faculty of
seeing spirits, and other invisible things. A spirit-
friend recently stated that he often visited the stable
in his house, as his favourite animals were staying
there. He added that they could see him and often
bellowed at his appearance.
Subhadrabai confirmed this statement by saying
that such an experience was quite possible.
DYING EXPERIENCES.
A gentleman who had passed over about a year
and half ago was asked as to what a person feels
when he dies or is about to die. His answer was that
the person feels drowsy for some time and he passes
■
over in that state. Afterwards he begins to realise
where he is. All who pass over have a guide
allotted to them. He gives information about the
next world. On being asked who his guide was
he stated that they called him Guide because he
tells them every thing about their place etc. in the
other world. He added that some people are not
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 159
willing to stay in the new world but that it was no
use grumbling. They do not understand that it
is better than your world. He said that it was his
■opinion and experience.
ENIGMATIC EXPRESSIONS.
(1) A spirit-friend while communicating with
his son, pointed out several times the letters R. A.
R. on the Ouija Board. This was naturally
unintelligible to all the sitters who were puzzled by
that enigmatic expression. But it was thought that
he meant something by repeatedly pointing out
those letters. After a lot of persuasion he stated
that the expression indicated ‘ Reply and Reason’,
and he wanted to convey to his son that he should
give replies to his question and reason upon them.
That was very significant and showed the mentality
of the spirit. The son was much reluctant to talk
with his departed father as he was afraid lest it
might disturb him in any way. The spirit also did
not seem very communicative and experienced much
difficulty in expressing his ideas. But the above
letters aud the subsequent clever explanation showed
how discarnate intelligences sometimes indulge in
round about methods of expressing their ideas.
(2 ) A lady sitter after having conversed with
her departed brother consulted him about her
tooth ache. He wrote ‘ BAW ’ which of course was
unintelligible to the sitters. Thrice he wrote the
same letters without explaining the meaning and
eventually stated that he meant Brandy-water by
that expression. It was indeed a queer but very
evidential way of writing as it could not have
160 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
occurred io any of the sitters. The spirit suggested
that the lady should gargle her mouth by Brandy
mixed with water.
DESCRIPTION OF THE SPIRIT BODY.
In a seance a spirit said, “ My body is like light
and fire. Different spirits have got different bodies. The-
difference does not lie in the form, brilliancy or shape
but evolution. My body is much further evolved.
The evolution is a matter to be imagined and can
not be described. The greater evolved spirits go to
higher spheres. There is no bodily change in them.”
HOW THE TABLE TILTS.?
Regarding the qualifications necessary for good
mediumship a spirit said “ The condition for the
tilting of a table is that you must hold your hands
lightly, and you must have faith in spirit-communi­
cation. You should think of the spirit you want and
observe strict silence. Deep thinking, patience and
other conditions must be followed. Spirit commu­
nication does not cause any derangement in the
medium’s brain if practised moderately. Allow the
table to move in the direction it tends to move.
This last condition is most important. The maximum
time for a seance should be not more than an hour and
a half.” When asked as to how the table was moved
he said that it was done by the will power of the
spirits working on the occasion. This explanation
seems to very reasonable and has been corroborated
by other spirits.
A GURU'S GUIDANCE.
During our visit to Nasik, we could observe a
remarkable instance wherein the departed Guru of a
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS ' 16
1 '
gentleman was found to be in frequent communica­
tion with the latter advising and guiding him in all
his earthly affairs. Besides personal communications
the Guru was reported to have done wonderful heal­
ing and rescue work, baffling the intelligence of
medical men. The communications were obtained
on the Ouija Board where a copper coin was used as
the Indicator which moved by the hand of the
medium pointing out letters on the Board.
The operator was a great devotee of the
Guru during his life time and his subsequent career
has been also greatly moulded in accordance with the
instructions received from time to time from his
departed master. So far he had rendered valuable
services to his devotee by mysteriously removing his
difficulties and pointing out ways which would make
his earthly life easy and comfortable. The Guru’s
benevolent guidance was not confined to one indivi­
dual, but to almost all his large number of followers.
Scientific discussions were discouraged by the
Guide who generally confined himself to religious
discourses which were likely to uplift his followers.
Nor did he allow talks with discarnate relatives or
friends of any inquirers, and only guided in matters
calculated to relieve physical suffering and other
ailments. His followers implicitly followed his advice
which sometimes proved efficacious.
During my stay at Nasik I had a few chances
of conversing with the Guide, but I must confess that
they were very disappointing. I approached him with
all respect and politeness, but the replies given to
my questions were not at all illuminating. ■ Among
162 INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS
other things I asked him the number of the plane he
was living in to which he replied that he was every­
where and the number of the planes was unlimited.
When questioned about other spirits he stated that
they cannot come there, suggesting as it were that he
had monopolised the place for himself. This was
to say the least, very discouraging, and I had no
alternative but to close the conversation. In conclu­
sion he, as is his wont, advised me to practise the
Japa of Narayan for three months with a view
to have a proper understanding of the subject.
Sometimes, as I was told he advised the Japa of
crores to the inquirers, and I was considered lucky
in being given a short period with all facilities to
follow the instructions. This must have been due
mainly to the discretion which the guide might have
used judging my attitude towards such advice.
JOY OF MEETING.
Oka was present at a sitting when some
ladies had come to meet him and their relatives after
a long time. Addressing them he said “ I have
learnt the news of your coming day before yester­
day.” They had brought flowers for the seance,
whereupon he expressed “ Count the flowers. Every
one will have two.” There is a rose-queen in them.”
The number of the flowers was twelve and they were
kept in a plate below the seance Table. There were
four sitters in all and the number of spirits present
at the time as told by Oka was three- According to
his statement the flowers should have been fourteen.
He was asked about this discrepency upon which he
said that you are to have one flower only. This was
also not accurate, because in that way the flowers
INTERESTING OBSERVATIONS 163
should; have been only ten. When questioned again
about this point he cleared it by saying that in his
jo y to see them here he made the mistake in counting.
A GIRL'S TALKS WITH HER FRIEND.
One morning a girl participating in a seance
ostensibly with the object of conversing with her
deceased father happend to get into touch with her
departed school-mate. She had absolutely no idea
about her friend and her coming was a surprise both
.to the girl as well as the sitters. The spirit after
writing her name described her dying experiences.
She had passed over in Poona nearly two years ago,
when she was studying along with the girl taking
part in the circle. She said “ At first I got fever
for eight days, which developed into small pox.
Afterwards it spread over the whole body and lasted
for a month and a quarter. I passed over in that
illness and suffered a great deal. I felt very sad at
that time because I had no mother to look after.
A girl who was my school-mate once said to me
* Go to meet your mother Her name is L. -J. I
often remember that girl. At the time of my death,
your father had come to take me here. He
was accompanied by some weird figures. I am
much angry with that girl. What business had she to
say like that? I was very sorry when once our teacher
told us to write a letter to mother. Because I
thought whom should I write if I had no mother?
Some how I made up my mind to write, thereupon the
girl said “ Since you have no mother send this letter
to her in heaven. ”
4
1
*
Page- No* Line
E R R A T A .
Incorrect-.-.' Correct
2 6 meterialists materialists
2 14 ■
■
■
■amonts-. amounts -
m m 2 28 ■vdemostratrag....-; demonstrating
4 9 meterial;- ' material
4 11 meterial material ■
■
4 23 ■phemena phenomena-
■■■.■tv:1
--' 5 11 .■demonstrat.. demonstrate
S 27 susli such
; I f 6 15 researsh . research'.,-'
jfIt 8 19 - obsrvations ■
observations
l plj 9 15 -concluusive . ■conclusive
Wk;,;;. 9 18 reseach. .research
9 23 .. ... lawyears lawyers
WmW^ 10 9 ■
v / -externe. ■ - extreme '
consquences
spirilualism
afther
revived
differences
viiian
disaappear
arterwards
indifferent
misconcaptions
iiteraure
aws
bp
distiction
piece
n
thik
sittter
massage
consequences - '■
■
■
spiritualism
after
received
differences ■
villain
disappear
afterwards
indifferent
misconceptions
literature
was
by
distinction
place
in
think
sitter
message
