{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__pelley___door_to_revelation_an_intimate_biography.pdf","mytitle":"Door To Revelation An Intimate Biography","mylang":"de"}
TrJ£ DOOR. T O R.£V£L/ \TJO N
An Intinatc Biography
By
WILLIAM DUDLEY PELLEY
This Manuscript personally typed and made
into a Book hy the Author during the year
April, 1934, to April, 1935, at his hone
in Asheville, North Carolina, and sent to
the person whose nane is inscribed on the
portrait bound herein as fraternal appre-
ciation of his interest in these prenises
T H E E O U N D A T I O N F E L L O W S H I P
A s h e v i l l e N o r t h C a r o l i n a
Copyright, 1936
3y
7/illinn Dudley Pelley
Asheville, N. C.
4
CHIEF
ROBERT CARLYLE SUMMERVILLE
• . not tall, an ordinary man to see:
You might, of course, picl: out the perl: Van Dyke,
But surely more the vigor of the eyes
Which not too deeply set "beneath black brows
Will beetle battlingly when he will talk,
■flhose nose looks well equipped to breathe the air,
Ferociously broad set, both blunt and hard,
As if it might have been a battering ram,
So close to brow in plowing mental strength.
An introduction is an easy thing
If fate allows: the fate he moves within.
Cone, see him if you can, for I'll be there
To ease the background if you are afraid.
But first, before you come, I'd have you know
Within yourself the strangeness you would meet:
*
. . some evening when the clouds against the sky
Enthrall with wonder All That You Might Be
And you are prostrate, proud, or know regret
That sings within your soul as fire that gleams
In terrible magnificence — that cries
As clouds night cry the Unknown Wonderment —
Then you might know him, see him there
Against the sky, . . one Man Upon a Hill . .
Outlined against the universe where stars
Peep through, and you feel little loneliness.
But YOU you will forget on seeing him
And finding that he's quite like other men
And common as the earth where furrows run
Or common as the stars might be to godsl
Indeed, all things are common in his way
But not of ours when we give afterthought;
And you would have to hoar him talk to know
If you would let him, see his face alive
When you are passive, catch the ardent gleam .
That shoots through avenues of unknown space
To distance where you are, in this dull world.
. . the expression of those eyesi They fascinate
With wizardry that might enthrall your mind
By some old deviltry of magic, not dead
With him I'm sure who've seen him leap
Across a hundred thousand years to one
Across hie table, transfix in mental gleam
Until ohe other drooped and swooned in trance
But came to life recalling other scenes
Of lusty giant days upon an island
Deep sunk beneath the sea and memory.
Not quite a man to brook your wit against
With his cool honesty of hard-won worth
That knows no rivalry. Those eyes night gleam
Within the dark, for light which glows from then.
It is a certainty they see at night
And in the nightshade making strong the glow
Surrounding head and shoulders of us all,
Though we are blind to subtle magnet waves.
Such piercing eyes look from too far a space
To leavo a comfort where they chance to searchl
You cannot help but know they read your soul,
And there*s no ease in that, for we are shy
To have another see what Fear has hid,
Quite mortal, hating to confess how much
This man could be a master of us alii
. . the glimpse he gives of age old vistas, stron
With hardness, holding secret treasures deep,
Is frightening — and wo, . .we know it blindly.
Ec knows too much, and knows he knows it, too;
Too quick to give the Splendor if he could
But just enough to weave a net of words
Around the tongue-tied minds of lesser men
Who fail to sense just what occurs to them.
Those eyesi It is the eyes that speak the man,
The eyes alone which hint at loneness hero
Where all must drift to common mean of words
That pass for understanding . . futile words
Which only parrot men repeat in show
Of repetend, as if they thought themselves.
. . there is the sense of Being in his.thought
When he is talking, as if himself were you
And not the single man which you must be.
You follow in a weaving subtlety
That catches at your heart in wonder,
Tearing veils from what you thought were closed,
Dark chambers, bringing light in eerie splendor.
Oft when I have sat to hear his yarn
I*ve waited on the brink of sea-blown cliffs
To fly without the need of faltering mind
Which was mine own . •
. . strange how More Than. Man
Inflates our ego till we would compete
If only for a twinkling moment, flashes
Of a still-born liquidescent po\?er
Dwelling distantly far hack in us.
But we . , he scathingly and fiercely told,
Yet indirectly with a gentleness
That carried rapier-thrust into the heart, , .
Had more than mortal sense. And then we felt
We more than knew, . . almost leaping hold
Into the full magnificence of life
He gave us then, . . that we were only horn
To die until we gain Love's mystery —
Inweaving tapestry of hardened mental strength
To cope with angels, devils, and the crew
Of dissipation — till with gory armor hared,
The last long stance of ignorance more blind
Than soul which downward goes to bathe
Eternally in Stygian solitude which marks
Tlie lonely wanderer in hell,
Beholds our God — OUE Godl — he fiercely said,
Revealed in us, as us, as I am you and you are me
But you . . you do not know it, and shall not,
Until you've lost all that you ever thought
You gained upon Illusion's breast, and aro
Newborn again, to start another .upward flight.
. . endurance is the watchword. Praise of self
Delusion, . . and the grandeur of the skies
Convincing in deceit, emblazoning a glory
Which we cannot own before defeat
Has shattered all to less than all,
And nothing’s worthwhile living.
. . nothing is,
If once it was, . . the spark but made it so
And not the thing itself, when all is burnt.
Your beautiful dream palaces are dust
And all is charred with memory of death
That backward turns with sorrow and regret.
You follow right w a y s, never know it.
Celestial kingdoms wa.it your making them
But they are all illusion, born of strength
To ride the crest of Love, which is Itself
And not phantasm. You may at last leave earth,
Make worlds, suns, galaxies 1
Men created them, the men you are, . . the gods
Which having conquered self-deceit of form,
Used lines of force, geminifying all —
The All they are, the All you are. All isl
But mortals die innuneratio deaths, and die
To higher cycles of a dying then,
Before all dies for then and they can live.
You walk the passageways of Fate and Death
And chain yourself to memory of death;
You have not even learned that Thought is death —
Indwelling, recreating falseness of the past,
Upbuilding mockery of beauty's show,
Illusions of yourself which yet must die.
. * of all which may be treacherous and false
The last is beauty which ensnares the mind
In thinking it lias touched the hem of God —
Youth's adolescence seeking mirrors to the soul,
The answers to all riddles, answering none,
Till all is spent in saddened hungriness
For that which cannot fade as death must die,
As death must bear itself again, to kill forever
Falsity which it must live.
You cannot knowl Splendor of the Real
Would stagger with a brilliance not of earth,
Or universes as you know them. give.
Enough of speaking vague of verity! . .
Although the Real is surer than the rock
You bruise your foot against — for those who fly
Interior regions of the Unnamed God.
. . and yet the beauty as you know it
Has within itself the lock,had you the key
Vibration hints at vaguely in the wild
And nameless urgings of your hidden life.
So simple is it that you cannot know!
So vast that it but stupefies the brain!
So potent that it could annihilate
Tliis dream of life upon the troubled earth!
Indeed, Our Master gave you glimpses when
He turned the water into wine, walked the wave
And stilled the tempest. King of Love, He was
And is, who holds your life and mine in His.
But mystery of Love is not an easy prize,
And it is not of death and Life of Death.
Who masters all illusion through all tine
May slowly enter to simplicity . .
Such were his thoughts though not his words,
Nor yet his briefness, saying all and more
By talcing us into his might of mind where we
In unison rejoiced with him that we could share
This much Reality * .
. . Far more it was a tendency of his
To speak of human things quite humanly,
To tell wild tales of valored, doughty men —
Real men which were as gnats upon the stage
Of Cosmic Venturing with States at stake,
Of finance weaving serried sordidness
Or heroes fighting for a principle — unknown,
Unwept, knight errants of the race for its stupidity
Tire tales he told conveyed a weariness at stupidness
Which wallows in debauchery of man. It would
Be easier than worlds could know for this lone man
To show himself to then, as even now he does
For those who see, and have through suffering
Gained the right to grasp and dimly comprehend.
What does a nan who lives so Far Beyond
Do with himself that we can know his nano?
Or carry thoughts that hold us mazed at life? . .
. . what does he do? . •
Of course he writes vast books, and is acclaimed
In superficial ways. He is a loneliness to us
Who see through him our poverty of being Love
And thereby take ourselves away from men
In thoughts within what they must dully think,
Not having learned to make them out of cloth
Which Destiny is weaving . .
Loneliness for us is but reminder of our lack
Of high companionship when weaned from earth.
For him there is no loneliness who lives
As close to earth and men as vaster things
Suggestive of another realm where Gods
Inweave creation through a larger scheme,
Above, beyond, within the universe,
As we have gained it through our instruments.
. . to see him is to knowl All else mast lie
Except the power seeliing in you, the life
Which he conjures with artist’s brush -7
You did not dream that you could own or glimpse,
So transient it appears when he is gone.
Cornel see him if you can . .
If Fate allows,
The Fate he demonstrates and moves withinl
TrJ£ DOOK T O ;c£V£L A T 1
0 jN
PART O NE
CHAPTER ONE
~ r 1EIS is the story of a man who spent the first thirty-eight years of his
life groping for something higher and more satisfying than the normal
J rewards from strictly worldly living. Then in the thirty-ninth year of
his age, in a single night, without the slightest suggestion of a warning,
something happened as he lay asleep that altered his career, his philosophy,
his destiny. It is also the story of a man who sought to share what came
-from that experience with millions of his fellow mortals stumbling in bogs
of spiritual perplexity, academic fallacy, political subversion and economic
bedlam, . . and how they received it, and what later grew out of it.
That man, perforce, is the person I call Myself. I must, at least in a
literary sense, become the hero of my own narrative. It is the only role
that I can essay in order to tell the tale with the drama and clarity that
has gone into living it.
It is no easy task to tell such a story. Time and again it befalls
such an author to speak of people and events with a certain blighting candor.
Likewise, people and events do not always conduct themselves as they do in
tales of fiction. They have a queer way of speaking and acting that too
often condemns them out of their own mouths and lives. Consequently there
are times when a sympathetic penman would spare them the public verdicts
that are thereby uttered on them. The moment has arrived in my affairs, how-
ever, when I believe it will greatly profit my fellow Americans to know what
has happened to a person not one bit unlike themselves, what he has sincere-
ly tried to do to make this nation a more wholesome and livable place because
of the aforesaid revelation, and what amazing, unique, or weird reactions he
has met, coming from the souls he has sought most to help.
I once knew a woman who owned a puppy. She lived in a house in torrid
New York. She became so solicitous of her pet that one summer she sought a
place in the country where her poodle could romp to its small heart's content
But after going to the trouble of making a journey, she set the dog down on a
five-acre lawn. With a pat and a push, she stood up to watch it gambol. But
did that pooch gambol? Indeed, it did not. It took one look at those awful
open spaces and streaked for a hole neath the nearby veranda. And it stayed
in that hole, I might say, doggedly. No amount of coaxing throughout the re-
mainder of that visit would persuade it to come forth. That dog was born in
confinement, and would not be satisfied with anything but confinement. It
did not really want light and freedom. When freedom was offered, it scurried
for confinement in nice cozy darkness.
There are humans like that, alas millions of humans. They yelp or howl
behind the window-panes of life, indicating that the crux of mortal bliss is
escaping social dictates, or the vigilance of tutors who truly are but parrot
for what wiser men have taught them. Offer them true spiritual freedom, or
1
the chance to gambol in wholly new areas of thought and labor, and they snap at
the hand of him who would release then, or consider as menaces those who invite
then to know Life as sonething other than darkened holes beneath structures of
orthodoxy.
Understand ne at the start, I would not complain that they suffer.such re-
flexes. If people in the main did not exhibit such reactions, there night be no
consequential reason for going to the trouble of getting out this book. Lest any-
one upbraid ne for leaning toward pessimism, I offer this as well -
-
Hie past four decades of my life have wrought the conviction strong within
ne that the world also contains a poignant horde of earnest people who hunger and
thirst after Things of the Spirit so rapaciously, as I too hungered when The Door
to Revelation opened for me, that not to write this book and tell then how it has
been with ne — a person exactly like themselves — with a view toward assuring
then that they nay experience as I have experienced, night be taken as a stricture
in spiritual indolence.
Here then, is the story . .
In neither false pride nor false nodesty, simply upon the story’s merits, I
leave my reader to adjudge me as I an. Sufficient it is for ne to say in fore-
word that I have not drawn on fiction for an item in this whole narration. If
thousands of people wonder in places whether or not I have made natters a trifle
more graphic than they actually happened, I make the plain assertion that I have
lived these tilings personally, with my eyes opened wide and my consciousness
functioning. Believe this history or not, I tell you it has happened . .
CHAPTER TWO
r
OING back to the start of tilings, where all good stories should begin, I
_i first realized that I was again on earth, witha new body for me to occupy
and a fresli life-span ahead for me to live, ina little white-box parsonage
on a country road in North Prescott, Massachusetts. I do not mean that I was
born there. It was nearly two years after my birth at 32 Goodrich Street, in the
city of Lynn, Massachusetts, that I suddenly realized that I was human and alive.
I .mean that my first observations of life ,that Impressed themselves upon my mind
and caused me to marvel at the mortal status in which I no”' found myself, began
in that parsonage beside a country church.
My father was pastor in that church.
.I was his only son — between two and three years old.
He wo.s a very young and earnest pastor, my father, in tile Methodist denomina-
tion. He was very pink in his aquiline face, as I remember him first in those
far-off years, very slim in his build, and took a vast amount of pride in the as-
sumption that the Tribe of Pelley could trace its geneology back in an unbroken
line to one Sir John Pelley, knighted and sponsored by Good Queen Elizabeth.
Which attested, of course, that the Pelleys were English.
Just what Sir John had received his knighthood for, unless it were the fir-
ing of certain Scottish hayricks or keeping Queen Bess from becoming overly
grouchy on a Sabbath afternoon, was a matter not detailed in the family’s tradi-
tions. For reasons that seemed sufficient to the sovereign and my forebear, he
towered high enough above the rabble to be requested to kneel down. Whereupon it
is logical that Queen Bess borrowed a handy cutlass from some sneering cavalier
and did for the first tine — of record — what many excellent wonen have been
doing ever since; namely, took a couple of good clouts at a Pelley while she had
2
one down. .Whether Sir John had the urge to clout her "back is something that is
nowhero nade clear in the text. I assert that he could not have been a real
Pelley, however, providing he had not folt it. We nay let the natter pass . .
At any rate, he seens to have bogged dovm into geneological inconsequence
after being so honored, except for the item of nultiplo progeny that are still
listed in Burke’s Peerage. Certain of these were doniciled on ancestral acres
in nnd around Southanpton, I an told, when the eighteenth century opened.
’
.Thereupon it was again a woman who got a Pelley into trouble and caused hin to
step up fron the lordly commonplace.
I do..not know the Christian nano of ny groat-great-grandfather. But tho
family tradition has it, related as something to remember if not to emula.te,
that finding himself the youngest son of a lord in the Southampton neighborhood
and thereby without much chance of inheriting either the family plate or scan-
dals, he smashed the general stalemate of existence by falling in love with a
commoner's daughter. Of course his family raised a fine shindy. And vvhen he
refused to give up the girl, although perfectly willing to make an honest woman
out of her without persuasion from a shotgun, he showed the family mettle by
helping her down a ladder from her second-story chamber in the dark of the noon.
Next day in a vessel they were outbound for Virginia. In thosedays Virginia
was known as "the Colonics" . .
Just who performed the nuptial ceremonies need not cause palpitations. And
there is a copious library of records showing how very common the commoner's
daughter was — at least in the esteem of the boy's irate parents — in that she
lost no tine in honorably mothering a brood of sons and daughters. But before
that sort of thing became an annual program, the Virginia-bound ship had en-
countered a storm. It was blown fron its course to the Island of Newfoundland.
Thus did a little stramash of the elements keep me fron referring to ny
forebears as contemporaries with the Washingtons, the Culpeppers, tho Lees and
the Fairfaxes. Put it dovm in your notebooks, you fine old southern coxcombs.
Naught but the North Atlantic weather denied me to turn up ny nose with the
best of you! . .
Pelloys are, indeed, as common in Newfoundland as Finkolbaums in the Wash-
ington government or Olsons in Wisconsin. Which implies that the good ship must
have cone to land, else I should not be here in this western hemisphere kicking
up this jostle in the present. And whether the newly-weds came ashore in a
lighter, or where heaved overboard and swam, or cane gracefully wafting in with
their four legs down breeches bouys, is irrelevant to the fact that about the
year 1875 there were so many Pelleys in and around St. Johns that it was advis-
able fron the economic standpoint for some of then to emigrate. Among those who
did so emigrate was Frederick William Pelley, ny paternal grandfather of blessed
menory, his wife Mahala, and eight small children all strung out behind then.
My father of the wayside church was the second in that group nnd the oldest male
offspring.
OW before coning to "the States", my aforesaid grandsire had followed the sea
like most Newfoundlanders, gone to Labrador or "the ice" every season after
seal, grown a board like a bath-mat, and generally worried' himself with the
fishing industry to such an extent that his life's career was finally altered
by multiple experiences in getting his feet wet. And when a Newfoundlander wets
his feet, such dampness is prodigious.
Grandfather wot his feet so many times, sploshing about St. Johns harbor,
or Labrador, or tho dock of a sailing sloop netting for cod, that he finally be-
gan to wonder why no one had ever thought to make water-tight boots. The more
he considered water-tight boots, the less attention he gave to fishing. Came
3
the epochal day when a final foot-wetting sent him ashore. Forthwith he start-
ed ranking hoots — doughty leather hoots — protected fron the ocean’s hrine hy
cottonseed oil. He began selling these things to his erstwhile shipnates, then
he sold then in the town. His shipnates and the town both discovered they were
practical — at least Newfoundlanders cane hone fron the sea with their feet a
little less wet than they had been on previous occasions — and soon ny grand-
father possessed sufficient wherewithal to go in for little Pelleys in the afore-
said big way. 3y the tine that Frederick Willian had booted most of the New-
foundland shipping industry with his horridly oiled overshoes, he began to cast
speculative glances toward the adjacent United States. Finally he decided to go
to Lynn, Massachusetts — Lynn being the center for nanufacturing of the nation’s
boots and shoes. It nay be added that hundreds of Newfoundland wonen, who had
endured the drying-out of the Pelley brand of footwear behind their stoves on a
thousand rainy evenings, doubtless breathed in olfactory relief when Frederick
Willian, his consort and his progeny, waved poignant farewell to St. John's
Narrows and Signal Hill blockhouse.
Hut there is always a fish-hook. What grandfather had failed to take into
consideration was, that a certain aspiring young nan by the none of Goodyear was
bringing out at about the sane tine a boot of gutta.
-percha that did not nako a
housewife's darning-basket snell like a paint-factory in August. Grandfather
landed his raenage in Lynn and discovered to his horror that no Pelley boots
were to dry behind any stovos in Anerica, while whole fanilies vacated, But
with true British fortitude he nade the nost of his -unlucky advent and sot about
finding his donostic tribe a house.
The chronicle has it that nan and wife cane finally upon a structure that
suited and the price, it developed, was enticingly low. Grandfather perfomed
his final feat of fishing — getting his wallet out of grandnother’s bodice —
and closed the deal before it escaped hin. He was instructed to cone around
next norning and he would get his deed. Next norning when ny forebear appeared
on schedule, he found a stronger measuring the premises. "What do you want?"
he demanded of ny grandsire.
Grandfather said, "This is ny house. I'n about to novo in."
"Over ny dead body you willl" the other retorted. "You'll pay ne for it
first."
"But I've already paid one nan," cried ny grandparent weakly, describing
the one who had pronised hin the deed.
"That was ny former tenant," scoffed the real landlord. "I ejected hin
yesterday for non-paynent of rent."
Grandfather walked around for quite a while in a daze, looking for the nan
who had fleeced hin of his savings, This person was still unlocated when ny
grandparent died, as late as 1912. A house renting for ten dollars a month
sufficed the bilked Pelleys. Thirty-seven years later Frederick Willian gave
up the ghost worth twice as many thousands of dollars . .
Few Pelleys are caught in the sane blunder twice.
So here was I, in the third year of ny age, trundling on snail, unsteady
logs around the sun-baked foundations of a little New England church. I cane
into consciousness of nyself that first drowsy sunner, picking up bits of red
and blue glass fron about those foundations, as lawless youths fron former
years had done damage to the stained-glass windows.
My mother was a Goodale.
It is ny understanding that the Goodales had been resident# of Danvers,
Massachusetts, ever since the days of the Puritan Fathers. There is no actual
Mayflower Taint in ny blood that I know of, yet on the other hand, the resi-
dence of ny naternal ancestors in the aforesaid community had little or nothing
4
to do with the fact that Danvers is chiefly noted for containing the largest
lunatic asylum in the New England States. As evidence of this, I aver that at
the time of my mother's marriage to my father, my maternal grandsiro embraced the
humble but wholly rational calling of driving a horsocar about the crooked streets
of Boston. I submit that anyone who can find his way about the crooked streets
of Boston — let alone drive a horsocar through then — is by no means a lunatic.
In the matter of my maternal grandmother's extraction, there is just a bit
of spice. My mother's mother had been an orphan, raised in Nova Scotia by some
people named Thurston. When she finally cane to Danvers and married Alonzo Good-
ale, she said her maiden name was Sutherland. Early in my boyhood I recall my
father's teasing of my mother about her mother's family nano. He said it wps
Sullivan. Por some reason, known only to herself, my mother considered it sorneT
thing to secrete that her orphaned parent's name had a strong Celtic flavor. I
never saw it so. If it made me one-quarter Irish, I was proud of the strain . .
At a
n
y
'
- rate, Hannah Sutherland Thurston married Alonzo Goodale. And after
a proper passing of years, their second daughter Grace married William George
Apsey Pelley.
Alain I say, in the year 1892 a boggle-eyed boy on legs somewhat bowed hunt-
ed bits of colored glass about the masonry of his father's country church, or
slipped the rope with which he was tied to a front-yard pear tree down about his
ankles and ran. away down the road to a neighbor's — where he was served to cook-
ies and questions, and later marched home to bed and a spanking.
It was a very lonely spot, the location of that dusty wayside church. On
the eastern side of the parsonage stretched a graveyard.
There was no other house in sigilt . »
CHAPTER THREE
\ BOUT that graveyard I thought a lot.
' \ It was a very pleasant place in which to play, among those mossy headstones,
r\finding berries in the brambles along its hoary fences. But when on weekday
afternoons I saw the buggies of farmerfolk draw up around the church or when the
weatherbeaten sheds in the rear had been filled with stomping horses, and after
strange services for the midweek our neighbors brought out a long, black, cloth-
covered box from the church's sacrosanct interior, toted it slowly up the road,
and bore it in among the senile headstones, I knew a Nameless Horror.
What was contained in those heavy narrow boxes that made our parishoners act.
so stricken and constrained? Why were they always that dull unglistening black?
I appealed to my mother. She always said, "Hushl" and cast a glance at father . .
Two or three years later, down in the village of East Templeton, an older
girl named Carrie "passed over" suddenly. I had played with this Carrie. We had
squatted -under the same huge umbrella when a summer shower caught us off in a pas-
ture. I recalled the intimacy as her funeral cortege wound slowly up the hill be-
fore the house, with fourteen whiffletrees creaking musically and steel tires
striking small rocks in the sand. A matronly neighbor, delegated to keep.me at
home while my parents held the services, told me that Carrie was in the long
black box that I could see through the glass of the carriage at the front.
What had happened to Carrie? I had known of her brief illness and vaguely
understood it. But what did they mean by "dead" and how could she move in that
mystical black box? I watched the procession move up out of sight. Carrie was
gone . . And yet I cannot say truthfully that I did not know what was passing
before me. Searching my memory honestly as I write these lines, it seems that
5
in those far-off years I was quite as old aperson as I feel nyself to "be at
present. There wero two souls of ne inside — that was how it was! One knew
all things. The other asked questions.
I cannot recall that I felt any sorrow at Carrie's mystical passing. I
missed her as a playmate, hut deep within my heart I understood that it had to
he, that the world into which I had cono was scheduled that way, that down some
distant year — a nillonium then in eternity — I too would he ridden up a
country hill in a somhre vehicle with plate-glass sides, lying unfeelingly and
motionless within. 3ut I knew too that when that tine cane, movement would mean
nothing. The real I
. would he . . away!
At the gigantic age of three, however, I was merely an ancient entity be-
ing ridden about the New England hills hy two serious young adults, visiting
strango families in hucolic sanctimony, exploring strange pantries, and being
offered strange cookie-jars. As we drove hone late each night, I looked up at
high stars drowsily. I heard the tugs slapping neasuredly against shafts of
the buggy, the creaking of tho whiffletree, the clicking of tires in the sand,
or tho soft warn runble of planking as we crossed sone country bridge . .
Also too, I associated those belated returns with the far-off melancholy
call of the whip-poor-will.
Father took his vocation seriously in those days of the Now England Mothod-
ist Conference nearly forty years bygone. Tho local minister was a person of
parts. Pink and beardless though ho was — his guileless eyes as blue as a
small-town veranda coiling — his word carried weight among those bent with liv-
ing. As he visited his parishoners on comfortable farms set back in the hills,
the buggy was always well-ballasted on leaving — with sacks of potatoes, tur-
nips, and pumpkins. Just how mother felt about those visits is a nattor for
conjecture.
Father received free rent of his parsonage, his donations of vegetables,
and a salary of three hundred dollars in cash. Mother received the debatable
compensations of listening Sunday after Sunday to the same callow sermons —
in which her husband's knowledge of God was only exceeded by his shocking in-
timacy with the devil, of course before ho entered the ministry — the oppor-
tunity for playing the matronly Samaritan to those parish wives whose husbands
in temper had kicked then from bod, and the honor of accepting for her person-
al adornment such articles of clothing as other parish women decided they could
"get along without" . . The good woman, like ten thousand ministers' wives of
the period, must have had pardonable cause for disquiet in her spirit when of
theological etiquette and cruel necessity she found herself entering tho church
on Sabbath mornings wearing Mrs. Lrown's bonnet, Mrs. Page's petticoats, and
Mrs. King's slippers. Put any suggestion of resentment would have meant a ruin-
ous scandal. She would not have been properly contrite before the Lord. So
mother wore the bonnets, the petticoats, and the slippers, and hoped against
hope that St. Peter took note of it — or is it Gabriel who takes note of such
humiliations and soes to it that wives of ministers are ultimately rewarded?
At least mother wore them.
She wore them for two years, and I got stronger on my legs. And at the end
of those two years father received a "call" to a larger parish in East Templeton
— still in Massachusetts. The town was bigger, the church was bigger, so too
was the parsonage. This last was a gaunt, two-story house set behind lugubrious
pines that moaned softly when the wind swished through them on rainy autumn
nights. You know how pine trees night be — great Norway pines — standing be-
fore a parsonage in a bleak New England village . .
They spoke strangely to me, those pine trees, on a hundred restless twi-
lights, just before oil lamps were lit. Thoy wero striving to tell me some-
thing . . that vaguely reminded ne of . . Carrie! . .
6
CHAPTER FOUR
\ MORE wholesome nan than my father never lived. He was clean in his thinking,
ho was clean in his living. He had his peculiarities, indeed who has not?
J }He aroused ray ire on a hundred occasions when I had hecone a normal young.
American going about life's business on ray own. But neither blood taint nor soul
taint did he ever bequeath me. For that I can overlook our lesser dissensions.
The Pelleys had been clean living, deeply religious people ever since the
first Pelley set foot on Newfoundland. Mayhap that North Atlantic stom tool: all
of the worldliness out of the runaway Pelley and sot him on land aptly frightened
at God. Anyhow, in ray granfatlier’s sunset years, after he had retired from a
real estate and building business, he had the aspect of a stocky, square-should-
ered Moses with a burning grey eye and whiskers down his boson. He spent weeks
at a tine in searching the Scriptures. The nan knew his Bible as nost nen know
their ledgers. That is not saying that he agreed with everything it held, es-
pecially the Old Testament. As a self-instructed scholar his learning was pro-
digious. Once he recited to me the entire list of the kings and queens of Brit-
ain, from the Roman conquest to the present, with the dates and lengths of the
reigns of each. He did this fron his memory. Not knowing the roster myself and
therefore not being in a position to check on the old gentleman, I approved his
erudition and was properly awed.
The only thing about him that troubled me in those tines when my parents
took me to visit him, was his Britannic propensity for keeping a life-sized por-
trait of Queen Victoria, with the Union Jack draped over it, hanging in his din-
ingroom. TIiis to ne was ancestral sedition. It took fourteen first years of my
life to pass the stage of fighting the American Revolution. For my own grnndsire
to brqzenly flaunt a portrait of a British monarch to all and sundry was an in-
sult from our clan to George Washington, John Hancock, Paul Revere, and Patrick
Henry.
On my mother's side I had the Goodale ancestry — with that dash of County
Sullivan. Three of ray maternal grandfather's brothers fought nost gallantly at
Gettysburg. In her religious scruples and conscientious living, mother equalled
father. If either of then erred in ny early upbringing, it was by giving ne an
overdose of personal and domestic sanctimony, painful but guileless. Still, peo-
ple took their religion seriously up in New England forty years ago. And besides
ray father was a minister. I, his son, had to measure to ny role.
At just what life period father "got religion" I have never been advised.
I believe his age was fourteen years when his parents brought him down here to
"the States" and he started to work in the shoe shops of Iynn. He was fqyenan of
the Valpey & Anthony stitching-roon when he net and married nother. They set up
a modest hone on Henry Avenue, in Iynn, moving later into Goodrich Street, \vhere
I was inducted into a new mortal coil at seven minutes to one o'clock on the morn-
ing of March 12, 1890. Lot atsrologers do with that date what they.will . .
Father got his ministerial preparation in Boston Theological Seminary, in
evening school classes. Ilis North Prescott pastorate was his first. The church
structure has lately been transported and reconstructed in Amherst, Massachusetts,
as tue entire district so familiar to ny childhood now lies submerged in a vast
inland lake — a reservoir for electric power that serves western Massachusetts.
At any rate, father got religion.and apparently got it.hard. The only drawback
about continuing as a pastor was a dearth of compensation. With the arrival.of
the hard tines of 1893, even Mrs. Brown's bonnets, Mrs. Page's petticoats, and
Mrs. King's slippers, were not available for nother. Something must be done.
7
Looking back nov? on those years, I recall that ny attitude and angle on
this new life in which I found nyself, conprised many itens that were never
quite accounted for in ny father's fundanontalisn. In the first place, ac-
cording to nodern psychologists, no infant is supposed to think or renenber
until it has acquired a language to think or renenber in. This is not true.
Without neaning to publicize nyself as unduly precocious, tine and again
after reaching naturity I recounted to nother the exact geography of the Good-
rich Street roons fron which she and father novod before I was aged six
nonths. I have told her of the steepnoss of the stair-flight down fron upper
bcdroons, the patterns of the carpets on the floors, of the short narrow hall-
way opening to the parlor, of the great easel with its painting of dogwood
blossons in a frame of orange plush that stood in a corner. I recalled to her
the twin vases of glutinous whiteness that stood near either end of the par-
lor nantel holding the tail-feathers fron sone long-denuded peacock. I renen-
ber as woll the "air-castle" node fron bristles tied with pink yarn that hung
fron the ceiling and was supposed to be sonething very swank in the furnish-
ing of parlors before the opening of this century.
I have a distinct recollection, too, of journeying on ny back in the
depths of ny carriage, feeling very hot, stuffy, and annoyed at ny helpless
inconvenience as I gazed up at the grey-silk lining of the vehicle's parasol
suspended above no on nickel-plated arn. I recall a day in a high wind when
ny carriage blew fron mother's grasp, bringing up against a fence and spilling
ne out . . with no worse effects than bloodying ny nose.
The strange part of those memories has been, that I seemed to know all
about the mortal confinement into which I had gotten nyself. Thon again, the
mortal side of ne did not. I felt upon a hundred occasions that I was "older"
than ny parents and wanted to convey how wrong and narrow they seemed to ne
in many of their pronouncements. It nay be argued that every child does like-
wise. That too I concede. Dut I want to know why. If children — as main-
tained by orthodox philosophy — are the physical products of parental pro-
creation, whence arises their impulses to exasperation when the hapless off-
spring is forced to submit to the dictates of adults, especially when unrea-
sonable? Understand ne, I do not refer to antagonisms to nornal discipline
required to protect and train a child and prepare it for maturity. I refer to
exasperations to parental linitations, the expression of ethical tenets if
you please, with which the youngster disagrees.
It took no thirty-eight years to find the answer to that mystery. 3ut I
found it. It cane as the aftomath of a single night's esoteric experience
high, in the mountains of distant California — when "The Door to Revelation"
opened for ne suddenly — that has been concretely and specifically responsible
for what I have done in the United States since. 3ut back there in 1893 ny
father had never heard of esoterics. My parents knew nothing of any aspects
of life but those which offered then food and clothing, made then conform to
current social dictates, and impressed upon then that the Age of Miracles
closed nineteen hundred years bygone — when our Lord took a sort of celes-
tial levitation to heavenly realms, thereafter to be cone divine counsel for
the defense, leaving the earth to run itself and talk about His visit through
all future tine.
In short, they wero devout, clean living, orthodox people, strictly cir-
cumscribed by the Puritanic code of ethics and a literal interpretation of the
Jewish Holy Scriptures. And born unto then had been a snail, tow-headed cub
who occasionally said or did things that brought qualms about his sanity. My
zeal for entering anything which lured ne, had a naturity that caused much
consternation. I speak of certain incidents, I say again, to proclaim net ny
8
precocity but because I believe that in ny own case I was proving gonetiling that
ray father* s fundamentalism had tragically passed by. This again concerns the
opening of The Door. I read fluently before I started school. I startled ray
parents of a week in 1895 when they opened their copy of the weekly Zion's Herald
and beheld a contribution in The Youth’s Letter-Box signed T7illiam Dudley Pelley.
I had written and nailed the letter rayself. It attested to the large experience
of rayself as gardener, containing anong other •
-
aeoervations which required a cer-
tain editing, " . . I have had beans spring up on ne in one night.” This was ac-
curately the first tine anywhere that the nane of this author appeared publicly
in print. Thereafter the stanp box was kept beyond ny reach . .
Then cane the incident of delivering a semon.
afternoon they nissed ne fron the parsonage. A search of the neighborhood
failed to produce ne. The search widened sharply, ny mother's panic growing.
They leered in the well behind the parsonage. I had a propensity for wells. But
I was not down the well. Groups of neighbors contributed to the search and com-
menced to scour the village. Finally a chair-ridden old lady was found who said,
"I saw that Pelley child go into his father's church across the village (green.".
A swift examination showed that the key, usually kept in the clock at the
parsonage, was truly in the lock. My parents pushed open that door and entered.
Once in the vestry they heard a childish treble coning fron the auditorium up near
the pulpit. Opening the inside leathern doors, they beheld ray reader's humble
servant standing on the seat of an altar chair tugged into position behind the
high rostrum. With the pulpit's Bible opened before him, and a badly scrawled
semon spread out upon it, he was wholly absorbed in addressing an oration to that
stretch of empty pews.
Father was rueful and not a little frightened. lie told ne on a Sunday after-
noon walk after I had reached ray majority that the thing upsetting hin most at the
moment had been the fact that I seemed to be preaching a semon quite.on a par
with his own at the tine. Of course the neighbors laughed about it, and explained
it as the mimicry of adulthood by a child. Father was not so sure . .
Again to forecast The Opening of the Door, I cannot remember a tine when a
public rostrum has not seemed as familiar to me as my chair at a table or a stool
before a typecase. I say that something was "poking through" in those years, to
be propounded later on. I was no child prodigy. Such things as prodigies, cor-
rectly understood, I declare do not exist. Quite another process is at work, as
I dramatically found out. But neither father, mother,nor rayself, knew it at the
time.
After father had given up the ministry and opened a small shop in Tenpleton
Center — in which community my only sister Edna was born in 1894 — he made just
one experiment on me, which for his own peace of mind he never repeated.
Like all normal youngsters I had a lawless tendency to explore a cool and
savory pantry while ray elders were elsewhere abstracting sundry wedges of cold
apple pie. Repeatedly !
,
,
amed, and as repeatedly spanked, I was finally advised
that if it happened just one more time I would be ejected from my "happy home"
to shift for myself down all future years. The picture of ne struggling against
society's rapacities without fond and loving parents to fend for ne was painted
as graphically and luridly as possible. Came the day in spite of it when they
bagged me again at the pie-shelf, red handed. Father dragged me forth with mock
tears on his face.
"Tlie day has cone, Grade," he told mother tragically. "It is the saddest
of our lives, when we lose our darling bQy."
"You mean he's disobeyed again?"
"Disobeyed again? Look at his face. How he must go forth and fight the
9
cruel world. Never will he see his loving folks again."
Mother entered into the penalizing drnna. She brought forth ny best Sun-
day suit and bade no put it on. She rolled sundry other clothes in an eloquent
bundle, including an extra pair of shoes and a brace of cold flapjacks as ny
first neal "in tho world". Finally the two of thon tied up the kerchief, found
no a walking-stick and thrust it through the top. Putting this cor.bination over
ny shoulder, nothor nade a great shindy about "kissing no for the last tine" and
asking if, after she was dead, I would return as a nan and put flowers on her
grave ?
"Oh sure," I responded, with eyes fixed on the gate.
Without the slightest tear, certainly with no assistance, I swung ny pos-
sessions over ny shoulder, said goodbye to the cat, and started for the street.
Father told it afterward that never in his life did he know of a youngster of ny
log-length scuttling out of sight so fast. I nade tho turn in the road while ho
and nother were staring at one another end wondering if their strategy had sone-
how gone askew . .
"This is enough!" dad exploded finally. "Why, the whelp night get lost!"
Pulling his hat on his head like a pot, he started on ny trail in double-
jig speed. I was halfway down the hill out of Templeton Center — going toward
East Tenpleton, Gardner, Boston, London, Paris, and St. Petersburg — before he
caught up with ne and tried to snatch ny ear. Instead of blubbering at depart-
ing ny fond and loving parents, the blubbering was coning at one in sight pur-
suing ne. I had rather expected sonething of this order. Such invitings to ad-
venture were too good to be true. Discarding ny Ragged-Dobbin bundle, I took to
a pasture as capture was inninent. I was in the act of squirming through a
fence and gaining to a woodlot when father put an end to the whole brilliant
business. With his hands on ny heels, I cane toward hin in reverse. lie held
ne up before hin.
"Aren't you heart-broken at leaving your fond and loving parents?"
"No, sir," said I truthfully.
"You're not heart-brokon?" he bellowed, shaking ne again on a level with
his face.
"N-N-No," I persisted as we got back to the road. "You said I could go out
into the c-cold and cruel world. Now you won't let ne!"
"Because you're not sorrowful,"
"I don't see nuthin' to be sorrowful about. I wanna g-go out into the
c-cold and cruel world!"
"March!" said ny parent, pushing ne before hin.
"Where?"
"Hone, you young blatherskite!" His face was beet red . .
CHAPTER FIVE
IS FACE was not red but a grisly white, one nurky afternoon in the autumn
r
that followed, when he strode tragically into tho house with a bandaged
J bundle of snail human flesh linp across his arns. "Don't be frightened,
Gracie," he apprized ny nother, "but__. . our snail boy's been hurt."
Mother stifled the scream that arose in her throat. She flew ahead of hin
and opened the bedroon door. "What happened?" she choked.
"lie fell down behind the horse's hoofs from tho seatof the wagon."
Fathor laid ne on the bed. He turned back the odorous horse-blanket in
which I was rolled. Mother's screan cane out of her throat. My head was a nass
10
of 'bruises and bandages — ny wounds patched together by a country doctor with
generous applications of black canbric sticking-plaster. The frenzied fingers
of ny stricken young natron started taking off ny clothes. "Tfhat do you mean,
fell down fron the wagon?,
r
"He reached the sawr.iill all right, and he played around while I filled ny
barrels with sawdust for banicing the foundations of the house for the winter.
As I got then loaded, I found I had to unhinge the seat and place it on top of
the two forward barrels. The seat was none too steady but I told hin to cling
tightly to ny a m . T
7e cane -op the hill this side of Otter River. He suddenly
saw a lone russet apple hanging on a tree just over the fence. He wanted that
apple. I told hin to hold the reins and I’d get it for hin.”
"You left hin alone with that fractious horse?"
"The horse was all right till I handed up the apple. Sonny*s nittens fun-
bled it. He grabbed to keep fron losing it and the apple hit the horse. He
gave a sudden junp and sonny lost his balance. He pitched straight downward be-
tween horse and whiffletree."
"Couldn’t you catch hin?"
"I tried to catch hin but his clothing didn’t hold. I could only clutch the
lines and keep the horse fron bolting. He started to rear and prance . . with
sonny . . down there . • under his hoofs."
Mother tried to get ne in her $ms. It aroused ne to consciousness. She
said that I sniled at her, and it was worse than a blow. "You let that horse
dance on hin?" she flaned at father.
"I only remember that sonehow I braced ny shoulder against the front wheel
and held the leg of that horse.with ny left hand while I dragged out sonny to
safety with ny right."
"His bones must be broken. He nay be hurt internallyl"
"Hoi — I roljed hin in a blanket and got hin to Doctor Johnson’s. Johnson
said it was a miracle, but most of his injuries are confined to his scalp •
— his
scalp and his face."
It was ny first major mishap. A nervous horse had done his best to stomp
out my life. He had succeeded in doing nothing worse than.tearing open the side
of my head and putting a horse shoe-shaped wound on the top of my scalp — my
Luck Sign. I recall the whole incident graphically enough. Strange to say, I
remember the offensive odor of that horse-blanket in which father rolled me in
that mad gallop for the doctor’s house more than I remember any pain fron ny in-
juries. Father could not bear to see stitches taken in ny flesh. So the black
sticking-plaster was employed instead, and it stayed on ny face for a month and
a day. Each norning it became a ceremony to have a portion cut away. I become
quite proud of it. TThen the final fragment had gone, I found myself with the
pattern of a horseshoe cut on my scalp and a scar down my right cheek that grad-
ually diminished as the years cane along until it finally showed as a nark be-
neath ny eyebrow. It is there g
,
t this moment.
This propensity for coning unscathed out of accidents was something that
followed ne all through ny life. Since that first mishap forty years ago, I
have tumbled fron a b a m roof onto a rock-pile, been carried down a hill on an
uncontrolled bicycle to plunge head-first through the glass of a grocery, been
nan over and dragged fifty feet by a flivver, gone through a dozen auto snash-
ups — none of then of ny own making, however — gone through the world war in
Siberia with men about ne dying like flies, and capped all these jeopardies with
a forced night-landing and airplane "crack-up" over the wintry wastes of middle
Virginia, and not added a single scar on ny body to the one beneath ny eye. I
have never suffered a broken bone. I have only been in a hospital once, when I
11
had a ten-week spell of typhoid in ny.thirty-second year. It became a tradition
among ny intinates when a lengthy auto trip was contemplated: "Let Bill do the
driving and we* 11 get there in safety. He hears a charmed life."
Up to this thirty-ninth year I accepted this charmed-life business in the
nature of luck. In all contrition, the Opening of th<? Door revealed to me that
it was nothing of the sort. I had a protection about my physical self that it
would be sacrilege to dispute and ingratitude to deny. Hew much longer it main-
tains is not for discussion. It is my conviction, however, that it will main-
tain until I get Hie Job done which I came into life to do.
Time and time again, after entering upon the ugly and dangerous work of an-
tagonizing end defeating the forces of alien corruption in our nation, plots have
been laid to.do me harm. Always I have had strange premonitions of such mis-
chiefs and been elsewhere when agents of conspirators sought to wreak their ven-
geance on me. I have become an absolute fa,talist in that which men term Destiny.
I believe I still have some bad roughing-ups ahead at the hands of hoodwinked
nobs, but if I depart this world suddenly it will be because the work which has
called me into it — insofar as it was up to me to do it — has been completed.
The court-plaster cane off my face in due season and I was soon swinging
on our front gate as audaciously as ever. By that tine, however, my parents had
a new interest. My only sister Edna Grace had been born in the Templeton Center
house on the 15th of March, 1894, and lack of patronage in the dry-goods business
on which father embarked briefly after quitting the ministry, compelled my father
to close his store. T
T
e moved back to East Templeton. And in the village where
he had formerly been the only pastor, he now set himself up as the only cobbler.
-(■'HE other day I passed the house into which we moved on this return, when
J mother and I took a motor trip for a day to East.Templeton. It stands on the
south side of the highway, halfway up the first grade running westward from the
village, a little flat box-house with b a m adjoining. How small and tawdry and
barren it lookedl How big and well-kept and bowered in trees and shrubs it was,
as I had remembered it throughout four decades of absencel
Father bought this little house and a score of acres of land about, collo-
quially known as the Fairbanks Place early in 1895, and there we made our resi-
dence for the two ensuing years. During this time a sainted soul whom I knew as
Grandma Fairbanks gave me my first instruction in reading, using her sewing
shears to point out the words in a book of AEsops* Fables. She had reserved two
of the upstairs rooms for occupancy until her death, as a condition of the sale.
She was a patient-faced New England grandmother who wore her hair behind in
a tight little walnut and only ventured forth into the village on a Sabbath morn-
ing when she put on a rusty bonnet, draped a genuine Paisley shawl about her ro-
tund figure and attended divine service in the same church whore I had formerly
held forth to my father*s consternation.
Those all-too-brief years in East Templeton when we lived "downstairs under
Grandma Fairbanks" remain in my memory as the perfect idyl' of New England exis-
tence. Uhen many years later I filled the fiction magazines of the country with
homely stories of "Paris, Vermont" and the adventures of San Hod and his partner
in conducting The Paris Daily Telegraph, it was this Massachusetts village of
East Templeton that I called to do service as my "Foxboro Center, just over the
mountain" . .
Certain items stand out in recollection poignantly: the aforementioned
death of Carrie while we lived in this house, my first sight of an electric car
when the railway cane through from Gardner, the sweet piping of spring frogs in
the wallow down below the pasture, the dank smell of the rushes that grew along
12
the Causeway where the road fron the village bisocted twin ponds, church "bells
tolling "beautifully on Sabbath sunnor mornings, ny mother’s clear but slightly
melancholy voice singing hymns in opal twilight, or the jingle of the bells on
sleighs and bobsleds in the icy winter as they mounted the hill before the
house and up into carmine sunset. No hurtling Sunday motorists disturbed the
calm of that New England ruralism. I wandered the surrounding country by sum-
mer and winter, got into many of the scrapes depicted in The Fog, my second
novel, finally approached that fraught period when I must start to school. Dut
before doing so, I underwent another queer experience that lifted the Veil
thus early on the Life-Dehind-bife . .
One singing summer morning, with Edna an infant in her cradle and my eld-
ers busy elsewhere, I went out behind the house. The apple blossoms wero
heavy on the gnarled trees about me. A small knoll lifted southeastward at the
edge of the mowing. I halted on this knoll and surveyed the bright landscape.
I looked at piled clouds in the boryline sky. I looked across meadow, pas-
ture and woodlot. I watched bevies of butterflies wobbling into distance. At
length I looked down — almost at ny feet. An ant ran up a grass-stalk, found
no further place to go, and descended as it came. All the world was lush with
life. The universe throbbed with it. Then with a sense of shock, ny atten-
tion came to rest on the body that I occupied. It was a healthy but dumpy
little body. The feet wore quite grimy. I bolieve one toe was wrapped in a
rag. Despite ny five yoars, I suddenly asked myself a question from the
depths of Ageless tfisdon:
How had I come in that little boy’s body?
What was I doing in it indeed, in this vibrant world that deployed all
about me. What if all of it had hover "happened"? Where would I be then? I
knew I would be somewhere. It seemed as though, for an instant, standing on
that knoll, a corner of the veil of Eternal Mortality was flashingly lifted,
that despite all the assurances of ny father’s theology I had known such sing-
ing Nature a thousand times before. Eow funny to be encased in that pudgy lit-
tle hulk of peregrinating protoplasm that got dirty so swiftly, that had to be
fed and washed and put to bed nightly, whose nether portions could be spanked
with such blighting embarrassment! Whore had all of these human beings cone
from? Where had the ant cone fron that ran up tho stalk? Whero had father
and mother come fron, and my "new" sister Edna? Yes, and where had Carrie, ny
playmate of yesteryear, "gone"?
I knew. I knew’ It cane to me for a fleeting instant on that meadow up-
land. Then Mortality shut down. I was tho minister-cobbler’s small son
again. And two months later found me in school . .
“f
1HE schoolhouse still stands, or it did this past autumn. It was located
> halfway up School Street, whero all schools should be located in New Eng-
land villages. East Templeton has since built a new and more modern school-
house and the building where I began my education — at least academically —
nov/ houses the lodge of American Red Mon. Dack in 1895 it was a white, two-
story structure surmounted by a cupola in which was the school-boll. All in
all, it was the typical American schoolhouse of story and tradition, with its
sanitary arrangements in the telephone-booth manner at the rear of tho yard,
and huge stoves inside its two classrooms, always too hot or too cold in the
winter. It was a heritage aswell as a privilege to have attended such a
school , . And mother made such a fuss about "getting me ready" . . she dis-
cussed with Grandma Fairbanks how she should help mo overcome my diffidence
and adjust myself socially, and worried a lot about how the older boys would
treat me.' Finally vhbn tho first Tuesday in that epochal September arrived,
she grasped me by a very clean hand and led me, a much-starched and well-turned-
13
out little boy, down through the village and up to the schoolhouse. I think she
noant to ask the older pupils to he kind to ne, and remember that I had fornerly
been the minister’s son, till I completed social adjustments.
What really happened was, that the instant I espied a crowd of hoys gathered
in the yard, I broke from her hand that they should not see my mother fetching ne
to school. I charged then with a whoop. She kept calling frantically after ne
hut I affected not to hear. A strango hoy said to me, "Who's that woman? She
sounds like a cow that's lost hercalf." "Oh," I opined, "her kid's proh’ly
loose ’round here somewhores." And I scuttled out of sight.
I doubt if mother ever read a hook on child psychology. But it never has
ceased to perplex or perturb her that I had an uncanny yen to make my own way.
Sven in 1S33, when I had such national personages as Barney M. Baruch and Ray-
mond F, Moley humbling on my trail, poor mother's concern was only for my safety.
What if those men "did" something to ne, she wanted to he told. When I assailed
Franklin D. Roosevelt with the charge that his New Deal was naught hut a Commun-
istic scheme to get control of the nation's Christian-Gentile business institu-
tions and that he ought to he impeached for his betrayal of his office, she would
sit by the hour very straight in her chair, arms folded tightly, blinking her
eyes. "But what will you do," she quavered, "if you actually get the President
after you?" And when I replied, "I hope that I do, because it'll bring this
nation from its coma about what's going on," she only received my comment in
terns of the little tad who once fell down behind a horse's hoofs, and who night
yet end his days being trodden into pulp by a far more evil Beast. I night even
be cast in a federal penitentiary for lese majesty, something of the sort! . .
As if going to a federal penitentiary were anything to bemoan if the send-
ing were done by a lot of Russocrat politicians, frantically trying to suppress
a patriotic citizen who was shouting too loudly about their skullduggeries! . .
Incidentally, during those first two years of my schooling, I got my first
notions of national politics.
Bryan made his celebrated Cross of Gold Speech at the Chicago convention
and gangs of boys went to and fro in the schoolyard demanding of ne — and
others — whether we were Republicans or whether we were Democrats? I appealed
to my father . ,
"Paw, am I a Republican or a Denny-crack?"
"Why," he responded, "you're a Republican."
"Why an I a Republican?"
"Because I'm a Republican — and you happen to bo my son."
Thus I discovered that politics had much in common with religion — or for
that natter, citizenship itself. You are born into all of then.
I reported to my schoolmates that I "stood" for McKinley.
"All right," they decided. And forthwith I was exempt from nan-handling —
or naybe it was boy-handling — and joined in mussing up such other boys as had
Denny-crack fathers . .
Two autumns, two winters, and two springtimes, I went to that, village school.
I knew how a half-frozen lunch tasted from a pail that smelled of the grease of
many homemade doughnuts. I experienced the horror of Friday-afternoon "piece
speakin'" when the selectmen came in to take note of our eloquence. I idled on
my way home from school, summer and winter, as boys will idle. I knew the joys
of entering a warn house in the twilight, with only an oil lamp burning in the
kitchen but the odor of frying potatoes savory from the stove. After supper I
had my chores to do, and split my morning kindling. In another world, all of
it, where life was wholesome and not an alien nightmare! . ,
14
CHAPTER SIX
W
E TCSR2 always moving.
Father's attempts at cobbling were equally as unprofitable as his ministry
or the store. He was by no means a ne'er-do-well. Money was scarce up in
the Hew England hills in those hard times of forty years ago as it is ajl over our
nation today. He tried to eke out a living and his old experience in a stitching-
room made him one of the best cobblers who ever fitted a shoe on a last. But he
had too much intellect and energy to.stay a mere cobbler. A series of visits to
West Gardner in 1896 resulted in him securing a job as reporter and advertising
solicitor on the town's weekly paper. Insofar as I was involved, I affirm it was
Destiny.
From the first day that I set foot in The Gardner Journal office there was
something hauntingly familiar about it. Hot that particular office. Any print-
ing office. No one had to show me how to hold a "stick’ properly. I seemed to
know the printer's case by instinct — only it wasn't instinct. Every moment of
my spare time, after.we moved to Gardner, I spent about those premises. Snatch-
ing up any composing-stick that a compositor laid £own, I made for a stool and
set up lihes of type. J remember Old Man Whitaker, one of the paper's proprie-
tors, exclaiming at the way I quadded out my lines. "Who taught you to do that?"
he demanded, astonished.
I looked at him in equal wonder. Why should anyone "teach" me how to do it?
It was simply done that way, and what more could be said? "Oh, I learnt it years
ago," I cried disdainfully. This at the ripe old age of seven.
The fascination which presses, type, and the smell that inked paper held for
me, became my boyhood's dominant note. When irate compositors finally escorted me
from the premises none too gently because they always found ray name set up in pre-
cisely that composing-stick which they required to use next, the burning ambition
of my small life was to have my own office and work my own outfit. One of the
bitter disillusions of my childhood came from answering an advertisement in a Sun-
day supplement that offered "a complete printing outfit" to any juvenile who mailed
one dollar to the advertisers. To get that dollar I ran my legs off on errands,
I conducted a lemonade stand, I sold papers on the streets. Had the price been
ten thousand dollars it would have seemed no larger nor harder to secure. All
the same, I got it. I took four silver quarters to father, asking him to see that
they were properly mailed. For a week I dpzed to sleep each night envisioning
equipment presently to arrive which in a later generation should have been cap-
able of printing The Saturday Evening Post. I prepared a room in the cellar,
estimated where I meant to locate the press, where the typeracks and imposing-
stones should stand. Finally the expressman tossed out a package addressed to
me, not much larger than a goodsizod cigar-box. I cut the strings, puzzled,.won-
dering who had sent me a gift out of season. Thereupon I lifted out a dinky lit-
tle contraption of cheapest cast-iron about the size of a corporation's seal. In
the box was a little tray of types, each one thrust down end-ways, two characters
only to each compartment. There was likewise an ink dauber and a little tube of
ink. In cold horror I looked at the manufacturer's name upon the wrapper and
grasped that here at last was my printing plant . • There were not enough types
to set up my name.
I fled blindly to the cellar and wept bitter tears. That dollar had come
hard. Tfaile father was not exactly calloused, this denouement caused him laugh-
ter. "Jou'll learn by such experiences," he told me, "never to buy a pig in a
bag."
"But I didn’t want to buy a pig. I wanted a printing plant like Siting &
Whitaker* s."
15
"Did you actually think you could set such a plant for one dollar?"
"The newspaper siaid a printing outfit."
"I*n sorry, son. But let this he a lesson never to give up noney for any-
thing without seeing first just what you’re buying."
So I nade i
n
s
'
- first discovery that some men are liars — when it cones to en-
ticing the pence of childron with offers in Sunday supplements. But it did not
diminish my fanaticism to set myself up in the printing business as soon as I
found the proper equipment. It took me the next four years to do it, but I did
it in the end. And while I was doing it, father auit The Gardner Journal and
opened an auction room and furniture store in the Greenwood Block in 'Test Gard-
ner Square.
ALTHOUGH I have since come to ioiow every city and town of consequence in Aner-
S~ \ ica from going to and fro in my country and traveling up and down in it, and
have lived in the North, the South, the East, and the West, it is to this little
Massachusetts town that my thoughts will return whenever I visualize a place that
represents Home. We lived at 22 Lake Street when we first came to Gardner, in a
house that has long since been demolished. It was while living in this house that
I pitched off the b a m roof onto a roclcpile — and my bones held together, While
living in this house too, the Spanish War broke out. For a time I went around botb-
siclcened and thrilled that my father had declared his intention of enlisting.. lie
had just been naturalized during his employment on The Journal.and wanted to prove
the sincerity of the gesture. But family responsibilities dictated otherwise.
Tile Spanish War, to me, consisted mostly of flag-raisings. That is what they
called the open-air gatherings, held in the evenings, when military band concerts
were -followed by fiery speeches concerning our responsibilities in Cuba. At the
proper dramatic moment a huge flag was unfurled, previously rolled tightly on an
overhead cable stretched across the Square. Then after the huzzahing, came the
long queues of men stepping up to enlist.
One epochal.evening I was chosen as guest.of honor to pull the cord that un-
furled the flag from the veranda of the Windsor House at Gardner Center. It wa.s
more than a cord. It was almost a clothesline. It came down in a t^o-hundred-
foot span from the tightly-furled flag to the hotel’s upper veranda. Disdaining
adult assistance, I got me up on the balcony railing in nervous hysteria to do
the patriotic thing. The music had paused. The orator for the occasion was
thrusting up his arms, imploring the flag to come shaking down in colorful glory
above the heads of that cr<?w&.
"Go ahead, pull itl" father whispered hoarsely.
I pulled and I tugged. The wrapping would not.budge.
IIFall it, you cubl" came his louder admonition. Uncle Sam might be losing
hundreds of recruits by this flaw in the ceremonies.
"I’m trying to pull iti"
"Here, let me have it."
"Nol I wanna pull itl"
"Nell, go ahead and pull it."
The orator was getting tired holding up his arms. Old Glory was failing
badly to deliver. I gave another tremendous tug with all my strength. But I had
not estimated my small equilibrium. With a sickening lurch it dawned upon me
that the flag was pulling.me instead of me pulling the flag — and below me yawned
a chasm that was filled with human heads. Behold I was going somewhere, and it
certainly was not to Cuba. Father made one frantic lurch and caught me by an
anldLe. I hung onto the rope — in fact, in his hands I was a happy extension of
it. He pulled a small boy, and a small boy pulled the cord. And down came Old
Glory at last, so the badly frayed orator could take down his arms. As for me
16
the Official Flag Puller, a dozen hands hauled me hack upon the veranda hy the
feet and the legs.
After that, they fought the war.
The recruits trained in the local fire-houses in romantic blue squads. After
their departures we kept track of them hy the scare heads in the Boston dailies
tacked before the entrance of David Dora's News Room. It was the beginning of the
days of yellow journalism and the Theodore Roosevelt tradition. When George Dewey
whipped the Spanish fleet, all the neighborhood boys prevailed upon their elders
to buy them marine suits. Thus clad, we climbed to dizzy heights in trees, swung
by one arm to the horror of the girls, and advised the universe, "You may fire
when you are ready, Gridleyl" We became so martial on general principles that
once I nearly speared the little Brooks boy with the family butcher-knife attached
to a broomstick gun as a bayonet, when the mob of us turned loose to fight a minia-
ture S$n. Juan Hill. By night we fell asleep to the sweet and poignant notes of
some songster above the piano keys in nearby houses singing "Just As the Sun Went
Down" . .
r’AEIER'S store at 201 Central Street sold everything in the way of appointments
•
I for the American hone from bedsteads to hairpins. He had a streak of Yankee
barter in his makeup that saw nothing unethical, despite his ministerial train-
ing, in acquiring the goods of an entire household at auction prices, transferring
them to t..e backroom of his emporium, repairing and repainting them, and offering
them to all and sundry as quite as good as new. Mother's complaint in those days
was, that if a customer called for some article of furniture which he failed to
have in stock, he made a quick trip homeward, jerked it out of our household's
equipment and spurted back to garner the money. When she found him loading her
best parlor suits onto a wagon one day because some local Swede had called for a
parlor suite, she put a final stop to it. She said he would have sold the beds
out from unaer us children, if beds had been wanted and his store did not have
them. "You'll miss one of your children some night," she declared heatedly af-
ter one of these forays, "and discover Billie or Edna was asleep on some mat-
tress you've sold to a Polack." Mother was funny that way.
But father prospered in this store and eventually we moved to a larger house
at 180 Oak Street. In that house I remember sitting up until twelve o'clock one
midnight to watch the old century out and the new century in. Had I appreciated
much that this new century would contain, I would have treated that night like
any other night and not lost my slumber.
The Oak Street district in the northwest.
part of town has long since been
built up into a smart surburban neighborhood. But in those bygone days of the
Spanish War it was almost "in the country" . . the woods came down from Bancroft's
Hill nearly to our rear door. With Willie Leamy, a boyhood chum, I tramped those
woods. We came to know every square foot of that sylvan paradise. We knew every
bypath, every pine glade, every swampland, every bog-hole. We knew where to look
for the first trailing arbutus, and where the Lady's Slippers grew in the warmth
of piney hillsides. We knew where to go to scare out the partridges. We knew
how to loca/te the haunted spot that had seen the death of a hunting youth by the
accidental discharge of the rifle of a friend. No boy who has not known his New
England — or American — woodlands between six and ten years old, has the prop-
er experience to ballast his life.
I lived those far-off years in the very heart and essence of a clean, whole-
some, untarnished America which must be brought back. Each year held four holi-
days sacredly observed in the best Nordic tradition: Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. Those were the years when the Grand Army of
the Republic was still a power in the land, and the decorating of the graves of
17
soldiers who had died for the Union tos a hallowed obligation. Never do I smell
the fragrance of moist lilacs in the springtime that I am not carried had: to
those Memorial Days when hosts of men in blue, the silver beginning to show in
their hair, placed New England flowers tendorly on mossy mounds beneath which
comrades of other years were sleeping. We had appropriate exercises too, in the
West Gardner schools. Old soldiers cane in and addressed the classes. Righteous
war, defense of one's country, fighting and dying for sacred principle, nay be
scoffed at today by our alien weaklings. Bat drilled nobly into our susceptible
minds it did lay foundations for true Manhood and Womanhood. In those days had a
schoolteacher failed, or refused, to take oath in support of the Federal Constitu-
tion, he would first have been discharged and then tarred and feathered — at
least if a nan. As for women, well, our schoolboards in that corner of tradition-,
al America where I was raised would never have hired a dishonorable or traitor-
ous instructor of small children in the first place. It simply was not thought of.
But a swarm of alien locusts in human form has now descended on us from the
gutters of Europe. The spawn and scum of renegade immigration, with no character
and less stamina, now flaunts it before the young American that war is "brutal"
and "inhuman" , that we must boycott militarism, that all men should be "brothers"
• • principally that European nations, arming to the teeth, expanding their.subtle
vil. ianies to overthrow, subvert, or emasculate the American tradition, may render
impotent our maturing manhood and draw the teeth of an effective patriotism. Pat-
riots who saw the light of day in the ghettoc of the Ukraine now manage our fed-
eral affairs and prate of "Americanism" — meaning uncircumscribed license to loot
or to dominate our free institutions. Praise God, I was reared in a different
generationl
And yet it will come back. I leave it to posterity to decide whether or not
I have delusions of grandeur, but I declare that I consider it toy main errand in
life to see that it comes back.
When July 4th arrived, we boys got up before dawn and made the air hideous
with blastings and boomings. We shot off our firecrackers, we shot off our can-
non, we shot off our fingers. What mattered it? Our forebears at Monmouth,
Lundy's Lane, and Gettysburg, had lost their arms, their legs, and withal their
lives. My most memorable July 4th comprised the loading of a small brass cannon,
planting it in the center of a one-way street, putting fire to its fuse. Before
such firing, we had plugged its bore with ample wadding and added some marbles and
bolts for good measure# But we made the pardonable juvenile mistake of not dis-
cerning that it was pointed at the front door of the house that faced the thor-
oughfare. Some people named Morgan, living in that house, were shot from their
beds without the suggestion of a warning. At one moment they were safely and
peaceably sleeping. The next, a blast of eleven carriage-bolts and some.assorted
marble agates had traversed their front hall and goje into the kitchen — where a
negro maid preparing breakfast had a barrel of flour explode in her face. Pres-
ently the fire department was clattering in our neighborhood and a group of terri-
fied youngsters hid in my pigeon-cote for the balance of that holiday. No matter.
We were young Americans in those days, not mollycoddles encouraged by the agents
of Stalin.
And the same thing went for Thanksgiving. We had the story of the Pilgrim
Fathers and the Mayflower Compact. We could recite "The breaking waves dashed
high on a stern and rockbound coast" till the ghost of the old Massasoit chieftain
strode right into our classrooms. The next day for the epochal meal of the year
at home, we had turkey and cranberry sauce — the only day of the year when we did
have it. Thanksgiving was thanks giving. It was good to live in those days and
know such a heritage. What redblooded man would not exert himself to the utmost
to see that they are brought back? . .
18
VSy Christmases ' xvere distinguished by the unfailing arrival of my mother's
affluent sister, Georgia, from her home in Peabody. Aunt Georgia was conceded to
have made the best matrimonial match in the Goodale family of daughters, in that
she had wedded the scion of a wealthy leathern-goods manufacturer. She had been
twice to Europe and withal was childless — not that going to Europe could have
had much to do with making her otherwise. So days before Christmas she made it
an annual rite to hunt the Boston stores with a well-filled pocketbook — not
known to sisters who had merely married ministers — and at length packed a
crate of the latest toys and candies to make our Yuletide memorable. On the day
before Christmas came the lady in person — the only day in the year when the
depot hack drove up to our house. Iler silk skirts swished in the best Gay nine-
ties manner and she was fragrant with perfume. She wore fearful and wonderful
hats and had gold in her teeth. Her prize distinguishment in my eyes was a
unique watch which had neither numerals nor hands upon its face but told the time
by the sudden appearance of the exact hour and moment within little compartments
in the center of the dial.
Once she was housed in the "company" bedroom, the unpacking of her boxes and
parcels began. We brought in. and set up the Christmas tree, selected months be-
fore in Bancroft's woods. My Grandmother Goodale -- nee Thurston and alias Sulli-
van — was infallibly present. Whereupon we made merry in another tradition,
quite as patriotic as it is American and Christian. For once in the year I had
all the candy I could gorge. The house on Christmas morning, with all of Aunt
Georgia's latest toys and gifts, was the sort of place that little children dream
about, no matter how much silver has come into their hair. What Christmas in my
boyhood would have been without my wealthy Aunt Georgia it is hard for me to guess
I look back on a childhood that was filled with all the sound and wholesome
atmosphere in which a saddened citizenry of present-day America is viciously
shortsuited. I have come to believe that the only way in which I can compensate
for all those blessed inheritances and favors is by helping — I say again, for
it will bear repeating — to return my country to a sanity, tranquility, viril-
ity, and prosperity that perpetuates all that Nordic Christianity recognizes as
true greatness.
CHAPTER SEVEN
ATHER had the opportunity to sell his store to a man named Silverthorne in
June of 1900. Mother had never liked living in West Gardner, anyhow. The
J town was filling with too many Polodes who worked in the chair shops. So
she prevailed upon my sire to try his fortunes elsewhere. They selected the city
of Springfield in western Massachusetts. Disposing of the store and shipping
their household goods by the railroad, ny peregrinating parents loaded Edna and
me into the Concord buggy and drove over the road, consuming two days on a trip
that mother and I made in my motorcar the other morning in a couple of hours.
Springfield was a very clean and prosperous little city of about 00,000
people when we thus arrived in it and took up our residence at 17 Spruce Street.
This nouse has since been turned about to face on Hawthorn Street and a vacant
lot is all that now remains of the yard where I climbed apple trees, raised rab-
bits, occasionally broke windows, or built disfiguring structures out of boxes
and old boards.
Not having any business at once to engage in, father got a reporter's job
on The Springfield Union newspaper. I entered the sixth grade of the Central
Street school.
But I say again, the call of printing ink in my blood was inescapable.
When dad left The Springfield Union to start a parcel delivery business, I was
hoarding my savings to get myself a press. With laudable parental wisdom in
19
raising a snail son and making him appreciate the value of his possessions by
paying for them in labor, he offered me two cents a bundle for every delivery-
on ray bicycle. Furthermore, he leaned toward no indulgences in the items that
he gave me to deliver. I pedaled for the next three years about Springfield on
an oversized "wheel" leaving everything at the front doors of citizens from sacks
of fertilizer to Easter lilies. I had a wire gadget attached to ray handlebars.
I would pile this with bundles till I could scarcely see above then.
One night, after the day's deliveries, father met me at hone with the
epochal announcement, "Tine Kidder Printing Company up on Bay Street has a practi-
cable hand press that I think you could use. Tfe'11 drive over after supper and
see if it suits."
Eat my supper with a press in sight at last? But I,swallowed plenty when
we got to Bay Street and I discovered that the owners of the shop wanted twenty
dollars for the press whereas ray savings were but twelve. Father saw my nausea.
"I'll loan you what you're short," he offered, "providing you'll continue to
work it out in bundles."
It was a compact, substantial hand-press, that took a form six inches by
nine. It 'weighed so much that two men had to icarry it out to the wagon. I rode
home sitting beside it as internes accompany patients to hospitals' in ambulances.
I had a shop all ready for it in a small room off the stable. We had moved from
17 Spruce Street to 132 Florence Street during the interval that I saved the
twelve dollars and the b a m out behind was well suited to my purpose. I had been
collecting printing-supply catalogues and haunting Springfield's printing offices
for odds and ends of fixtures. One day behind The Springfield Printing & Binding
Company I found a discarded spill of reglet thrown out in the alley. It resembled
the sort of dream that some of us have, of coming upon a pile of money scattered
over the sidewalk. I salvaged it and sorted it. I made tables and typeracks
from pieces of lumber. My first imposing-stone was a slab of marble taken from
the bathroom of an abandoned neighboring house.
Father had ideas about saving himself money on his printing. "You can't;
run a printing office without type," he informed me. As if I did npt know itl
"You pick out what you need from the catalogues and I'll finance the payment.
If you take in job printing you can pay me back exactly like a bank." .
I would have contracted to tote a Jersey cow to the top of the Springfield
Arsenal and hang her.overside by her tail if it got me that equi~ment. I ordered
a dozen fonts of job type and enough eight-point to fill a chase with text. At
last I was a printerl
Since that time I have owned eight different printing plants and three news-
papers, one of then a daily that served half a State. I have run four magazines
— the last of them suppressed by the corruptionists in Congress — and done
everything in the publishing line excepting to make money. But no printing or
publishing project that I ever had command of, ever gave me 'naif the thrill that
I experienced when I viewed my equipment all in order about me. Of course I
would be a publisher. So at the tender age of twelve I started a journal that I
called The Junior Star*
For the next four years my weeks of days ran something like this: School unr
til three-thirty of each afternoon, a half-hour to get my bicycle or team and
meet father in the city where the delivery of bundles consumed till seven-thirty.
By eight o'clock I was out in my printshop. There I labored till eleven. Sat-
urday came as celestial dispension. I could apply myself from six-thirty in the
morning till the middle afternoon. But there was no 1
1monkeying" with that out-
fit on the Sabbath. I arose at nine o'clock on Sundays., was ready for church at
eleven, took in Sunday School at twelve, went to Junior League at four, with
evening preaching following at seven. Father night have been forced by econonic
duress to forego the ministry, hut up to the very last day that I ever saw hin,
he never for an hour forgot his religion.
The first issue of The Junior Star appeared while I was attending the ninth
grade at school. Its page-size was four hy six inches, twelve pages with a
cover. I "stuck" every typo in it hy hand, turned ny pages on the fold and ran
then through the press with a pull at the lever for every inpression. I believe
the circulation was one hundred copies. Mother still cherishes one of then,
sewed with pink string. It contains an original poen, a short story — very
short indeed, being two hundred words — an editorial, and a publisher's rdver-
tisenent sunnoning the nation to subscribe. The price by the year was twenty-
five cents. Night upon night I worked at it, week after week.
Thereat I discovered the Power of the Press!
Several issues of The Star had been handed about the schoolyard, each of
then delayed for publisher's reasons, when I took ny seat in class one noontine
with a snail greon grass-snake secreted in ny pocket. Ahead of ne sat a buxon
lass naned Ilazel. The bulge of Hazel's frock at the back of her neck held a
certain fascination and the particular devil that notivates snail boys wrought
a swift coordination of enticenents and inpulses. I took out ny entirely harn-
less little reptile and dropped it down her neck! . .
If I had dropped a pound of gunpowder into the school's hot furnace, I
could not have nonaged a bettor explosion. Hazel was out in the aisle in a
shake — in fact a great nany shakes — frantically clawing the interior of her
person. Clothes at tho nonent were anathena on principle. And she started a
screeching that alarned the whole building.
Now ny teacher of the period was a lady of sone tenperanent who had failed
to catch a nan. Hut if she had failed to catch a nan, sho had every indication
of success in catching a plunp and screeching girl and making her reveal the
cause of her gyrations. Somehow the snake dropped out and wiggled down a floor-
crack. The teacher knew this thing had happened because most in that class-
room clinbed high on their desks. That was about the tine that I decided, re-
gardless of the hour, that I should leave and go hone. Hut the wonan nabbed ne
going. The principal was sent for. He was a doughty Civil Jar veteran with a
hand like a blackjack , .
Somehow I talked nyself out of that scrape. Arriving at hone and in tho
silence of ny printshop, I decided howevor that I did not like that teacher —
she was totally devoid of the slightest sense of hunor, or what passos for hunor
in the philosophy of boys. I decided, in short, that something was wrong with
the whole public school systen when such humorless females were placed in juris-
diction over up-and-coning youngsters., I would write the wonan up and expose
her in ny paper.
I did write the wonan up and expose her in ny paper. Had I kept to an at-
tack on the public school systen, it would not have been so bad. Hut I had ac-
quired sundry copies of Elbert Hubbard's Philisitine end the sage of East Auro-
ra had become ny patron saint. I was steeped in the sweet vitrol of the erst-
while Fra Elbertus and 1 used it for ny pen. I particularly emphasized that
teacher's spinster status and told ny reasons for it from a six-nonth observa-
tion. I gave ny own account of tho snake episode as though the whole world
were waiting to receive it. The paper was printed. It offered comments on the
gapes in Hazel's clothing and said that if I had to be chastised for the hapless
business, it was a pity that the teacher's clothing had not received tho reptile,
it seemed to bulge everywhere. Renarks of that tenor.
Nothing I have ever published about the activities of America's radicals in
the past five years has created one-half the denouement that resulted when some-
one laid a copy on the aforesaid teacher’s desk. She dismissed school early.
21
She got her hat. She likewise got her umbrella — or perhaps it was her" para-
sol. Straight for my parental domicile she smoked. She bothered to take along
no small boy as Exhibit A in all the brilliant business; she probably thought
she could lay hands on him at any time she wanted. Her one-track, mind at the
moment was prompting her to interview the parents who had been so brash as to
give a small boy the uncensored use of a printing press and types. I skirted
fourteen blocks in order to arrive at home that evening. When I finally summoned
up the courage to go in, the woman was just leaving. Both she and ray father had
significant gleamings in their eyes. Mother was wisely keeping her silence.
"Well, young man?" my father demanded.
"Yes, sir," I said carefully, assuming an innocence.
"It seems that you’ve got me into a rather ugly mess. Don't you know there
are some things you can't print, in a paper without running the risk of being sued
for libel?"
"What's libel?" I faltered.
"Printing the truth about people — • too truthfully."
"Then what is it called when you happen to print lies?"
"T7e won't discuss the political phases of the situation. How what's this all
about?"
I tried to tell him.
"Ho-hum," he ruminated. His face held a queer look. "Perhaps you'll get
along."
I usually had an instinct when father was going to larrup me. These symptoms
seemed lacking. I heard him continue —
"I think you'd better change the name of your paper and sort of confine it
to literary subjects. As for what you've done today . . well, you'll learn in
militant journalism that whatever you print is just about as safe from reprisal
as your opponent's secret dread of you. You've said some unkind and impudent
things about your teacher. She's been over here saying a lot worse things about
me for ever turning you loose with a printing press. But I don't have to take
the press away from you. You've got to go to school to that women for the balance
of this year. Don't come whining to me if the going gets too tough."
I crept into classroom next morning desperately hoping that I would not be
noticed. Ho such good luck. That teacher noticed no other child that day. Yet
the day held surprises. She greeted me with a pleasant good-noming and in fore-
noorj recitation'- - she gave me all the breaks. The week and the month wore schol-
astically onward. She was increasingly so saccharine in her treatment of me that
I began to be troubled. The other boys were seeing it — with schoolyard indig-
nities. All of it was. coals of fire upon my youthful head. Almost a year had
passed and I was about to move along into high school before the correct explana-
tion got through to me.
The woman was afraid that I might lampoon her againl
I confess to my guilt from the beginning of the incident. That teacher had
every license to truss me by the thumbs and flay me from the rafters. But she
could not afford to have more infant drivel distributed over Springfield to the
hazard of her job. She was so nice to me that it began to dawn upon me how Vol-
taire might have felt when he wrote, "I may not possess a scepter but I do possess
a pen l"
I give my father credit for being wise enough to know that tanning my seat
for what I had done, or denying me my outfit, would have put a dangerous CQmplex
into my journalistic c<?urage. Seing wise as a newspaperman himself, he knew that
sooner or later I would encounter my own reprisals from over-indiscretions. It
was a sage thing to do. One month later a boy named Phillip Taft, about the size
of whose mouth I had made some scathing writings, waylaid me on my way home from
22
school mid presented me with the pug-nose I am wearing at present. He did some-
thing to its bridge. I think his fists broke it.
I got father’s viewpoint.
Hut, I reasoned out finally, my teacher would not have been so nice to me,
nor would the Taft boy have committed mayhem on my person, unless I possessed and
had exercised some inherent power that they vaguely could not cope with. It was
something to ponder.
The Taft boylwas twice my size, and later became a traffic policeman. I
hied myself to my smelly little sanctum and started journalistically to blast
Phillip Taft’s life. The fact that he had tried to suppress me by force only
made me start after him in eighteen .-point type. I felt that in the final anal-
ysis that I possessed weapons which he emphatically did not. If he did not festr
them, then why had he bashed me? Father intervened . •
"You confine yourself to literary subjects," he reminded me with grimness.
"I don’t want you murdered until I have raised youl"
The Junior Star set and was not thereafter heard from.
CHAPTER EIGHT
IE SPANISH and Philippine wars were ended, McKinley had been assassinated at
Buffalo, the automobile was coming in. The hard times of the otherwise Gay
•
*
' nineties were behind us; ten thousand miles westward the Japs were whipping
the Russians at Fort Arthur, or so we assumed from the newspaper headlines. Theo-
dore Roosevelt was the idol of the hour although scarcely a man amongst us real-
ized the mischief he was performing at the Portsmouth "for his dear friend, Mr.
Loeb" by playing the game of the radical internationalists and elevating Japan to
a first-class world power as Russia in turn went down to defeat.
Amid it all, I was getting on.
I had taken my first ride in a motor-car, or rather, a contraption that sent
Springfield’s horses climbing madly into trees. I had seen my first movie. A man
named Granger had bought a phonograph, and night after night we gathered beneath
his opened windows as the summer ni^Jit echoed to singing and talking coming out of
a horn. I suppose it seems incredible to the present generation to think of daily
life without a single automobile, without a movie or a radio, certainly without c .
airplane. All the same, we made out.
Tie had no crime problem, no sex problem, no alien problem. We accepted our
government for what it was, and lived under it prosperously; we did not try to
continually overthrow it. People paid cash for what they bought in the way of
clothing, jewelry, or household appliances. Our only installment buying was furn-
iture and real estate and we entered such contracts with all due solemnity. T
7
e
lived decently, decorously, profiting in those increments that came from restraint.
Someday it will be discernable in true perspective, what the alien horde of four
millions of Jews did to us, who came to this country during the world war, and why
we have been so stupid as to suffer it at all. It was a mighty period for a boy
to grow up in, though not half so nighty as the era still ahead . .
Father had made money in the parcel delivery business, just as he made money
in the Pest Gardner store. How he cherished an ambition to get into manufacturing
From thence would come the fortune that he ever envisioned. The redeeming part
was, that he finally made good.
I had printed abominable letterheads for all the local tradesmen and got my-
self hated by all the neighboring boys for being held up by their parents as a
paragon of enterprise and a model of precocity. I had known my calf love-affairs
with two or three little girls -- one at a time — put on long pants, found a
23
fuzz', upon my jaw. The year of 1907 was in prospect and the panic that evolved
the Federal he serve in "banking. In February of that year father cane hone one
night bringing the stupefying announcement that he had sold his delivery. More-
over the price he had recoived was sizable enough to start him manufacturing with
a partner named Sibley. This Sibley had invented an improved tissue-paper winder
for toilet rolls — or convinced father that he had — which would revolutionize
the business. Father was going out to York State with Sibley and in due tine we
would hear from him. He went, and we did*
*
I
c cane back to drop a second bombshell directly in the center of the Felley
menage. He was taking me out of schooll . .
Yes, ny education, academically, W3.
S finished. Ho college for me, not even
high school. It was my duty to accompany him out to York State and.help him make
his millions via rolled-up tissue paper.
Tlie prospect appalled me. I did not want to stop my schooling. I was then
a sophomore at Technical High, the publisher of a more pretentious and successful
monthly magazine palled Tlie Elac Crow, president of the high school debating so-
ciety, and standing so high in my English course that I never was required to tak'
semi-annual exams. What could I do in a mill, making paper?
All of it was futile, my bitter remonstrance. The night we left for Fulton,
a city north of Syracuse, a zero blizzard stopped us at Schenectady. Tlie two of
us put up at a sme.ll, cheap hotel. I remember my tears throughout most of that
night. I wanted to go.onward and complete my education, go to college, become an
editor, an author.
"Ho," said father. "Paperl”
How I appreciate that it was part of ny role to have that invaluable exper-
ience in manufacturing, to learn business fundamentals through hard and gruelling
practice, to know the problems of the employer, to leam to handle men. My writ-
ing would cone later. And most certainly it did.
That wintry night in ■
- Schenectady, however, with the icy blasts rattling
the casements and tlie room overliot from a surcharge of steam, I found myself ven-
omously critical of ny father for ’
•
’
•hat I considered his parental despotism over
my destiny, tfhat ri$it had he to iruin my prospects and subvert my talents because
he needed the aid of his son in his business? Hhen we finally reached Fulton and
I perceived that the much-vaunted factory was but a forty-foot room in which
worked one sluttish girl and a snail boy with adenoids, my disillusion was com-
plete. TThat chance was there for me to write, to explore the classics, to exercise
my wits upon the platform in debate, to create beautiful effects with papers and
types? I had been side-tracked, abducted, sold to the galleys, turned into a grimy
mill-hand to listen to the dreary roll of machinery ^eek-end on week-end. Money
had never meant much to me, excepting as a means to attain to an end. And the end
I wanted to achieve in those years had been left behind in Springfield, in the
printshop where my heart was, that I would never see again.
TJhat I missed i$ all this callow rebellion was, that I could be the artist
wherever life carried me. Tlie artist will be the artist whether he paints in a
garret in Montmartre, or uses live men and women for his pigments on a canvass of
industry in a papemill in York State. Furthermore, in the present labors in
which I find myself engaged, I might be as impractical in supplanting the old
predatory economic order with a wholly new concept of social economics as a -rain-
Trust Professor out of the Jewish HEA, if I had not experienced the four years
that followed. Hot to anticipate, I beheld The Pelloy Tissue Company become the
fourth largest concern of its kind in the nation, and I was its Treasurer and Gen-
eral Superintendent. I had that industrial sequence coming to me as inexorably as
the disfiguring bash from Phillip Taft’s fist . .
24
In.all of this, father was hut an instrument at the command of higher forces.
I believe it now — visualizing that sequence in perspective — with.absolute con-
viction. I have shocked a good many people from time to time, telling them to stop
their sniveling at what they imagine their parents have done to them. 7eird as it
nay sound to those hearing this sort of thing for the first time, I have the same
adamant conviction that we actually choose our parents, of our own free will, be-
fore entering life as infants. We know in advance, before we are physically b o m ,
I say, what the factors and trends in a given life will be . . by selecting cer-
tain parents. Hie choice is our own. They merely prepare the embryo of which we
take possession. We either want what they have to give us, or we do not. We may
not always know it in our conscious minds, but eventually it will come to us.
Dut I did not recognize this great grim principle of esoterics at the tine of
which I write. Like a hundred million mortals who may not as yet have had the Door
to Revelation opened to them, who fancy themselves in consequence defeated and
thwarted, I accepted the silly tenets of orthodoxy that I had been assembled and
projected into life by parental procreation, that fate had decreed me to serve a
21-year sentence to their caprices and tempers, to be finally discharged with my
future a mess. .What a hodge-podge of blitheri As if the physical acts of a man
or woman could ever concoct an immortal soul, capable of writing a book or exclaim-
ing at a sunset. Dut what was worse in my case, I beheld in those parents all
adulthood in conspiracy against my spiritual integrity, with a smug God looking on
woodenly and giving the scheme His blessing. In fact, my father reminded me that
God was on his side — and I think that he believed it*
Father was really a sincere but inhibited nan who had a hard row to hoe but
who finally hoed it, to whom I owe the eternal debt of a sound and normal body,
the sturdy tenets of morality derived from a theology that stood for no nonkey-.
business, and last but far from least, an inspirational philosophy that urged me
to make the most of myself no matter what sacrifice was entailed in the process,
lie was harsh with the harshness of limited vision, but he did the best he knew
according to his light. His religion frowned on drinking, dancing, card-playing,
theater-going. During the days of the parcel delivery our only recreation aside
from divine service on Sundays was attending a series of Sabbath afternoon lec-
tures sponsored by the Springfield Young Men’s Christian Association in Court
Square Theater, which the foremost public men of America addressed. I had the
profit of their counsel and ideals from the platform and father and I scarcely
missed a one of them. Statesmen, publicists, economists, scientists, explorers,
that contact with them was priceless, not for what they said but for what they
represented. Ilenry Cabot Lodge, S. S. McClure, Senators Dolliver, Devericlge, and
LaFollette, William Jennings Lryan, Governor Curtis Guild, Sir William Grenfel . .
these men dramatized ideals.
On many a homeward walk after those meetings, father would put his arm about
ny shoulders and adjure me: "Ho matter what becomes of me, son, or in -hat situa-
tion you later find yourself, make the most of your life. HSV33R LET IT GET YOU
DOTOIt"
Would to God that the boys of our present generation could live beneath such
influences, in such years as I knew them.
Out back there in Fulton in 1907, with academic education definitely behind
me, I was a resentful young cub, certain that my sire was both bigoted and self-
ish, Did he propose to force me into being an adult ahead of my tine? Very
well, I would show him. If I had to smother and repress my literary talents, go
to work at the blast of a whistle every morning, then insanely I demanded a grown,
man’s prerogatives. Of course the chief of these is Woman. I began to look at
Woman as I had not observed her. I made it my business to fall violently in loveI
25
CHAPTER. NIUE
K
ATURALLY a certain diffidence maintains when a nan turns his pen to the
affairs of his heart. The intimacies of his spirit, about which his pat-
rons would like to know most, turn to inhibitions controlled by sacrosanct
urgings — that the dictates of good taste take into account the relationships
involving others. 3ut there were significant factors in that first love affair
of nine that belong in this saga from the literary standpoint . .
It is sufficient to state that the young woman's name was Mabel and that
she was a Canadian lass who came down to Fulton to visit an aunt and uncle for
the winter. I net her in the choir of the Methodist Church — which father
joined at once — where she sang a sweet soprano and I also made noises in a
supposed sacred manner. I looked upon her, and she looked upon me, and pres-
ently we transferred our noise making to her uncle's front parlor — where it
ceased to be sacred. I found pleasure in bellowing out the popular ballads of
the day while she furnished the proper piano acconpaniament.
This sort of thing began one night a week at first, then twice in every
week, then six nights in the week. Whereupon, having been forced into the
life of a man insofar as business duties and payrolls were concerned, and
scarcely understanding the primordial shudders that went through my person as
I cuddled her close beneath an April umbrella, I saw nothing inconsistent in
wanting my precocious maturity rounded out by the addition of a helpmate.
Just why I needed a mate, and at what she was to help, I paused to give no
thought. The girl had a piquant nose, a well-matured boson, a capricious ankle
end a flare for toothsome cookery. She banged the parlor's musical equipment
with quite as much cooperation as I put into yowling Charles K. Harris's tune-
ful banalities. In a natter of weeks we had parish tongues wagging. We were
seen walking together in places of solitude at unseasonable hours. The girl
cane back from such excursions with her hair out of pin and when she was quer-
ied, her manner was saucy. Thirty years ago it savored of Ruin!
The male and female old ladies who had "the best interests of the young"
at heart, went out of their several ways to emphasize my youthfulness, and
suggest to my parents that they should save me from my "folly". When the Light
of My Life accidentally switched off the vestry lights one night and left the
wife of the congregation's wealthiest nan to bark her nose against a door, this
affluent natron decided that I was involved with a Designing Woman. Preemptor-
ially Miss Mabel should be "shipped" back to Canada. In fact, Mrs. Edwin had
never fancied my Lady-Love anyhow. The indiscreet chit often outsang her in the
choir on Sunday mornings and in other ways implied that she was not so much.
The denouement was obvious,
I think half the ness that followed was precipitated quite as much by the
circumstance that the complainant was the wife of my father's local banker as
the fact that Miss Mabel might ruin my prospects. At any rate, the first sign
of storm took the form of a parental homily on "knowing my own mind" . .
May the good Lord help all of us! If our elders did not have that fine old
bromide about "knowing our own minds" to fall back on when seeking to intrude on
adolescent romance, pray what would they utilize? My hair is now as grey as I
trust that it will ever be, I have sired my own family, and been two times mar-
ried. I confess that I am no nearer "knowing my own mind" in regard to the fair
sex than I was in that springtime when Mabel and I confronted our tragedy — that
tragedy of having fallen in love with each other before either of us were able to
do very much about it. For father came alive at the nature of my answers. What,
what? Matrimony? At my age? He looked at me as though I had strangled my
26
grandmother. Mother was present and put her portion over. Parental fiats made
an end to the session. ITo matter about the banker*s wife now. Father vowed that
he would smash the infamous business if he had to break ray nock.
”
,
hereupon he broke plenty, but my neck was not included.
Tie was not particularly delicate in the manner of his breaking. TJhen another
week had passed and the news was cudgeled out of me that I had twice seen Miss
Mabel, he took me to my chamber. He threatened me, he cuffed me, he even went so
far as to.lock me in that bedroom while ho deployed across the town and took the
mattor up with the young woman*s relatives. I lifted the sash and went down the
rainspout.
Heating father to her home by a matter of moments, I whistled my lady love
down from her premises. We walked far afield discussing denouement.
Ike spring night was freighted with the incense of lilacs. After a time the
moon arose and joined us. We stayed out so late that even the frogs ceased pip-
ing in soft distance. But we came to no decision. What was there to decide? I
lacked three years of reaching my majority. I was wholly dependent on my father
for my living. A shotgun wedding? ITo — we did not go in for that sort of thing.
Our generation had raised us differently.
It was one of the most poignant evenings which I have ever lived. We had to
go bad:. At the edge of town the girl stopped beneath a wild cherry tree in
blossom. She broke off a sprig and put it in her hair. Hear the steps to the
house she handed it to me. I kept the poor fragile little thing for years —
till at last it fell apart.
At nine o*clock next morning she took train for Canada. At seven o ’clock
that evening I borrowed some money from her uncle — who never had approved of
father’s blacksmith methods — and headed for Ontario. In other words, I Odd
exactly what my one-tine forebear had done in England — but in my case I let
the girl preceed me instead of wedding her first. I caudit up with her i
p
. a
little Ontario city, leaving my parents to catch me as they could. It was in-
considerate of me, and doubly embarrassing to the young woman's relatives. But
father had represented to no tine and again how much of a nan I was, when he
wanted some work done that required extra effort. So I meant to go the whole
hitch on this manhood business and if he would not lot me love and marry the
girl of :
.
i
y choice, I meant to exert that much lauded manhood and.take the mat-
ter out of his hands. I had run away from homol
I next wallasd a Canadian park with the girl in the depths of summer even-
ing and made matrimonial plans with her to the dreamy music of a distrait band
concert. Hie ceremony would occur "when she had her clothes ready" and I had
found a job. I bade her goodbye at the steps of a suburban trolley-car next
morning and journeyed on to Hamilton.
I have never set eyes on that young lady since.
gATHHH located me in Hamilton where I was frantically trying to connect with
i a job. He walked up behind mo on the street of a summer morning and crashed
my fine air castles with a tragic announcement. My mother was seriously stricken
as result of ny flight. It had not been my going, but its manner, that had
felled her. If I stayed away longer, I must hold myself responsible for anything
that happened.
At length he persuaded me. I went back with him to York.State. I went back
to a town in which the light of life’s interest had been cruelly extinguished.
Mother recovered. I resumed my old place as head of tho mill.
"If you’ll show me by consistent waiting for one year that this heart-affair
is real," said father, touched by my misery, "I’ll not only give my consent to
2?
your marriage tut 1*11 see that you’re financed, and furnished with a home.”
I v/rote this to the Girl* She wrote hack to me vaguely. A year was a year,
and a life-time, it seemed, to hot love at twenty. Meantime there ’
-'ere dances
and parties and plenty of beaux to keep her mind occupied. I was down in a
Grubby little manufacturing town, roaming through evening streets that dealt me
an anguish, filling tissue orders by day and rumpling ivy maternally-tended couch
by night, refusing to go to church on Sundays because of the bittersweet recol-
lections that the choir summoned up. I debated many times whether to keep my
agreement with my father, feeling that no amount of commercial rewardings could
possibly compensate for the torment that was wracking me.
I think father was frightened. lie would steal sidelong glances at.me in a
troubled chagrin, as though he had uncovered depths in human nature that he had
never dreamed existed. What to do about it, of course, he did not know. There
were moments when he acted as though — if he had the situation.presented to him
again — he would keep his hands off and let nature take its course. I knew of
these moods. lie had played ducks and drakes with me, I thought. Having exer-
cised his humor he could only be "sorry" . .
One February night I wont to the postoffice and took out a letter. The girl
was sorry too — or so I gathered from the lines that at once blurred before me.
Tut somehow she had decided that I was not ray own master. If I had been man
enough to break away once, and not let my parents.attempt to run my life, why had
I not stayed away and set up our promised hone? And would I forgive her? Any-
how, she was leaving next day for a point in Ohio. She was in fact, embarking
on a honeymoon. Ty the time I got her letter she would.be wedded to another.
He was the sort of fellow, she added, who did not let parents "run him" . .
I walked out of that postofficc, into a phone pole.
Those things sometimes happen. Sometimes a man laughs them off, and looks
for other romantic distractions,.especially at eighteen. Sometimes the light-
ning strikes — horridly flaming — straight down to the subcellar depths of the
soul. And the burning is grisly.
I tried to forget the torture of my heartbreak by plunging like a robot
into that which now claimed me. I passed up enticements of social diversions.
Where could I go, that memories did not dart, to spear me like loot kpife-blades?
I filled freight cars with paper products by day, then went.into the factory’s
printing plant and spent the empty nights in league with my grieving. Toys and
nights passed when I only exchanged formalities with father. He was chagrined,
he was angered, he was frightened, he was pentitent. He began making lengthy
selling trips away from the mill to save himself the embarrassment that was grow-
ing between us. This left me with, the business. And I was not yet twenty.
I finally began putting together a chipmunk magazine to release the tight
resentment in my hectic young soul. I especially dealt roughly with an ortho-
dox God. It seemed that lie backed up my father in what had been qcconpl i'shexl
Copies of it sold. When the shock of my first agony had passed, I got out fur-
ther issues. A young woman in Camden, N. J. applied to assist me. She too had
known a lightning-bolt like mine. We played around with platonic nonsense for
half a dozen issues and finally went out ways. I buried the magazine.
Tut the tissue business prospered. We added ten, twnnty-five, fifty men.
More and more father stayed put on the road.
Inside me, however, my stricture was numbing. If the girl had merely died,
I would not have felt so bad. Instead, she had fled with, "the handsomer man".
Hurt pride, damaged self-respect,.and adolescent jealousy, these boiled inside
me, stewing together with plain, old-fashioned heartbreak. Tie pity of the se-
quence was the needlessness of it.
28
As lamentably, I held ny father responsible, My torture was ny reward for
being a dutiful son, for acting on his precepts, for talcing his word about moth-
er* s prostration. As for the banker's spouse who had started all the tragedy,
she "up and died" within the summer and I felt it to bo a base running out on her
brash responsibilities for wrecking my life. The affair was a mess, and I was
nesseel Of course I confirmed the statement that Mabel had married, otherwise I
should have left the mill flat, pursued her as before, and this tine secured her
beyond chance of escape. Instead, as life presented itself before me now, I.
meant to collect damages from that business for alienation of ny romance. More
and more the control and direction of that project was gathering in my hands.
More and more ny.parent was becoming a salesman — absenting himself for weeks
at a tine while I got out the product, found money for payrolls, added employes
as I needed then. I called my own meetings of the Board of Directors, the con-
cern by .this time having become a corporation. At tines I was a bit impertinent
in dictating to this Board what I wanted — in leeway to operate, in financial
support. Father would come in off the road, attempt to retrieve his prestige by
criticism, and meet blunt rebuke. One influential stockholder had an eye to
executiveship somewhat keener than the rest. He ignored my tender years and ex-
ploited ny precocities. To avoid local comment for what was transpiring,.father
went off on lengthier selling trips, and seemed content to make then. Perhaps he
likewise was wresting a species of alimony from our unnatural predicament. A
year went by. Two years. We began to consider a second plant in Springfield,
nearer to our markets. Meantime our holdings of stock in the business were notuvt'
ing. I had made the modest fortune of seventy-five thousand dollars before I was
twenty-one years old.
I fought a grim fight to build that business as a sort of reprisal on the
girl who had failed me. I do not think I am taking the slightest credit unto my-
self, for anything that I did not deserve. There are people in Fulton today who
will remember "Pelley* s Boy" and the shindy he cut ere that business struck its
snag. Of course I was getting invaluable experience, though it left me old be-
fore my time. Father was content with his comfortable salary — and I saw that
he received it for.giving me free field.
I am not saying that such would have been my course today. I am setting
down what happened.
Vital switches had been thrown in the lives of us both.
!
7
e were off on strange rails • •
CHAPTER TEN
r\ 3U3TLESS it was mainly to retrieve a certain lost prestige that na.de father
U
promote a second plant in Springfield. Sibley had long since passed from
the picture. If the Fulton directors gave me their allegiance in preference
to my parent, for reasons best known only to themselves, he would circumvent all
of us by a new project elsewhere. Anyhow, capital was secured and a model plant
went up, built especially for our purposes. Then arose the questions who was to
run it. Father could not do it. His specialty was salesmanship. A knack of
handling men in numbers, coordinating and enthusing them, had been left from his
makeup. Ho strange executives would know the details of the business. So I came
on from Fulton and met the Springfield directors. I succeeded to that manage-
ment by the fiats of my knowledge. Again I write facts.
Father practically retired • .
.
I
e had money at last* 3e was worth a modest property. Me had his same
29
high ideals, his sane spiritual hungers. But in the denouenent of his parent-
hood he likewise had a son whon he had weirdly alienated, who had grown "beyond
his nanagenent "by the force of life*s progressions. Perhaps ray reader nay be
able to understand ray own poignant longings of this present, to be able to sit
down with him now, even for one evening, and porapare notes as nen, to take stock
of the. '-'orld and the place of fathers in it. I think that our speakings would
be good for our souls. Alas for vain regrets. Life was noving onward.
But let no industrialist of the present, criticize ne or.upbraid ne for ray
economic precepts. I built an industry on the repressions of an adolescent love
affair when most boys are showing their prowress in a stadium. I have pardonable
license to say that I know the problems of the competitive manufacturer. Yet
life had still grimer tutalege to give mo. I did not know, of course, that for
twenty-one years I had only been standing on lifers doorstone, that I had not
yet stepped across its fraught threshold... True, I was matured before my tine,
but nay I phrase it that this was because I had to start early to get the tremen-
dous tasks ahead of me accomplished.
Still another asset cone from that sequence.
Eschewing companionships that were pale echoes of my romance, I gave thought
to my schooling which the mill had interrupted. Gradually it dawned on ne that
even academics were not confined to classrooms. Jf I wanted education, ’
.That pre-
vented me from talcing it? The lore of the world was contained in its books. I
had but to read and all knowledge yas ray heritage.
I did read.
I drugged rayself with reading.
I read long* serious books, curiously enough mostly history or biography.
I wanted to know how other men had solved problems much like mine, how they had
net crises, if I were peculiar in ray reactions to ray parents.
For twenty-five years I have read nyself to sleep in bed every night. In
twenty-five years a nan can do a lot of reading. I come to know the biographies
of statesmen, artists, scientists, as I knew my own saga in the years since I was
born. Biography led mo into history, economics, political economy. In 1932,
when ray collection of sixty-five lectures delivered in fifty-two days of Galahad
Summer School in Horth Carolina covered the Unknown History of the World, ry mat-,
erial was at hand in the depths of ray own memory. Students of the Blue Lectures
of the Foundation Fellowship have marveled at the data contained in those scripts.
Tliere was nothing strange about it. I secured it by digging, and all men can do
likewise. My books HO HOLE HUNGER or NATIONS-IN-LAW are the logical products of
much thinking on their contents.
Up to a night in 1924, I had a strange inferiority complex about a college
education. Always I considered that regardless of my reading, life had cheated,
me scholastically. Whereupon to my studio in Greenwich Village cane a brilliant
professor, with more degrees to his name than.there are letters in the alphabet.
He was seeking my advice on a point in economics.
"Why come to me?" I demanded in surprise. nl*ve never been to college. I
never finished high school."
"My dear fellow," he responded, HI*d give all ray degrees for the knowledge
in your head."
It left rae rather flaccid.
HE spring of 1911 found me out of a job. The end to the tissue company cane
before I could grasp it.
J Our Springfield directors were by no means the hard practical papemen
whom we had had in Fulton. A real estate nan, an insurance agent, the somewhat
spoiled son of an eccentric wealthy banker, took umbrage at the way in which I
30
tossed the business. I was young, I was beardless, they knew nothing of ny
record in the factory in York State. To have a "boy scarcely twenty directing
the affairs of a quarter-million dollar corporation grated on their egoes and
ny way was made hard. Father was criticized for hi? customary absences. There
was listening at keyholes of my private office doors. Orders tQ foremen were
arrogantly altered. I was disparaged, I was balked.
In my youthful self-confidence, I finally forced the issue. Either these
laymen directors were going to keep away and let me run the works or I was resign-
ing and no nonsense about it. After a particularly petty squabble about why I
was not using a certain roll of tissue that was standing in thd stockroom, I
slammed down my resignation and took myself southward. I would spend two weeks .
at Atlantic City and §ifter those amateurs had become sufficiently abrased with
the emery of the business, they would see their own folly and send for me pronto.
At least so I thought#
I did not take into account that there is a type of man that would rather
sink a ship than confess inability to hold it on its course. .The first act fol-
lowing on my departure was the cancellation of two fat annual contracts with cer-
tain steamship companies that were the backbone of our workings. It.was pointed
out to our stockholders as proof of my incapacities, that I was so foolish as to
make a four dollar case of toilet rolls for only twelve cents profit. Put four
carloads per day were shipping from our plant. Considered by the year, such earn-
ings were neat. I had once fought twenty months to secure those two contracts.
Now, tossed away, half our plant went promptly idle.
Did they call me back froi? Atlantic City to salvage their blunders? I have
it to record that it was the receiver in bankruptcy who appealed to me by tele-
phone to return from the South*. And I had been there three months.
A real estate man, an insurance agent, and a nondescript rich boy, had given
the death-thrust to our company. I could not recoup.
With predatory Jews from Manhattan tearing at the carcass of the business I
had built, I sought temporary sanctuary at a desk in a newspaper office. I was
twenty-one at last and full captain of my soul. I had regrets, heartaches, and
a generou- quota of.experience.
I took a job, I say, as feature nows writer on The Springfield Homestead,
a society newspaper. The ache of Mabel* s infidelity had jellied to a passive
insouciance in regard to femininity. And yet within me was an overriding Urge
propelling me forward with ever stronger strokes. Not to put too fine a point
upon it, I could liken nyself to a power-driven vehicle with a motor too heavy
for body or chassis. Then the load came upon it — irresistably dynamic —
something had to give. I was driven, driven, driven, toward The Door and through
it. One night I walked into the newspaper* s proofroom. I found there a buxom
young woman who was softly sympathetic toward my recent business losses.
I submitted written drivel for her to approve.
She not only approved it, but she offered prescriptions for my temperament-
al. lassitude. That I truly needed was a vacation, she said. And what better
place to take it than in southern Vermont, at the home of her parents?
The prospect of vacation struck me as unique. I had just had three months
while my business went to wkack. Dut porliaps the girl was right, I could play
around now without worries to rend me. She seemed a good pal to even suggest it.
Would she go up with me? She said that she night . •
A few weeks later, in the kitchen of an old Vermont farmhouse, with sweet
summer rain pattering, on the shingles, I asked if she would marry me?
She said that she night • •
Tims my majority. Life was a sour pickle on principle . .
THE D O O R T O REVELATION
PART TWO
CHAPTER OHE
A ITER the Door opened, for no, in 1928, many professional psychologists took
,
— \ a morbid relish in analyzing my case — from fragmentary biographies.—
J i and informing tho public from their asinine profundities that all which
prompted tne more dramatic episodes of my life was exaggerated neurasthenia*
How neurasthenia, according to the best dictionaries, is brain and nerve exhaus-
tion, a depression of tho vital forces. Lengthy monographs have from tine to
time boon published, explaining in much detail my addictions to such exhaustions
and depressions, principally penned of course by persons who never have met me.in
their lives.
One expert paid me the doubtful compliment of calling me a Shattered Soul.
I say paid me a compliment because I have uniformly found that the easiest way
for experts to rationalize tho behavior of a person who seeks to do anything out
of the ordinary, is-to call his soul shattered. Host analyses of the outstanding
men of this or past generations have proven them shattered souls — beyond the
fraction of a doubt. It is truly amazing what these personages of history im-
mediately accomplished as soon as their souls became properly shattered.
People without shattered souls arc supposed to live normal lives, stay mar-
ried to thp same women, be chased by the same bill collectors, bo bilked and
hoodwinked by tho same politicians, and pass away sodately, lying prone upon
their beds. Dut lot an infant kick the slats from its cradle in rebellion at
the temperature of its milk, show signs of precocity in adolescence, affront tho
dictates of the social herd in early maturity, and generally bother ~-od and the
angels with expositions of his own individuality when he readies those years when
he can do something about it besides lament j.t, and it is demonstrated beyond the
peradventure of a challenge that life has kicked his soul in the face and shat-
tered tho poor thing into fifty-seven pieces.
To all of it, fiddicsticksi
I never had a moment of brain or nerve exhaustion in my life — not.even
when I walked into that phone pole after getting Mabel's letter; I had simply
been too engrossed in the blow of my tragody to look whero I was walking. If I
have ever experienced any "depression of the vital forces" it has yet to be noted
by those who are near to me. Qp.ite to the contrary, the prevailing complaint has
it that I usually give nerve and brain exhaustion to thoso in my company — and
about fifteen millions of America's anti-Christian Hebrews are doing so much
fretting over the improbability of any permanent depression to my vital forces
that they have made my dynamics a congressional issue. Yes, I say fiddlesticks.
I likewise say phooiol
Once, twenty years ago, I foil in love with a girl, one of those knoeb-down-
and-drag-out romances that nay take hold of a male at any time between seventeen
and seventy. Being overly sentient, and the affair occurring at an impression-
able period when a strong idealism was being parentally thwarted, I took the
stricture hard. If I had lived in tho days of Byron or Keats, and had moped to
32
tiie moon in poetic doggerel, I would later be having literary professors siting
compassionate eulogies to my Misunderstood Ileart, and maybe someone would. tack
up a tin plate to my poignant memory Hiien, as, and if, the occasion came appro-
priate. Pile facts o
-
f the case were, that I was not misunderstood, nothing was
the natter with me but an overdose of inhibited parental management, and when the
girl herself let me down, I transferred my affection to an industrial assignation.
Put the a,ffair had thrown its switches, and my Life Train was in motion.
I could not see, and do not see now, how marrying the girl of my youthful
romance would have sidetracked or wrecked that train, or kept it from arriving at
its scheduled destination. Frobably if I had married the girl, or she had tried
to deter me, or make me over into something which I was not, or manufactured bur-
dens that restrained me from mounting to the heights of my cosmic expression, I
would have parked her somewhere on an alimony lot and gone ruthlessly about the
fulfilling of my brevet. I never have had much use for people who let the com-
monplaces of existence keep them commonplace, anyhow. I have had still less use
for men and women who live their lives scared to death that perchance by giving
free vent to their inner urges they may actually accomplish something that will
leave them marooned on a social island of rugged individualism. I like people
who are first and foremost themselves. When a man lives sincerely, without arti-
fice or timidity, I know what he is and just where to find him when I need the
particular brand of personality, or intellectual or moral attainments, that.he
has to contribute to our program. Far better to be eccentric, when it is artless
eccentricity, than to be the most erudite rascal with a flawless conformity.
Looking at what occurred in its larger aspects, however, I believe the.t I
came into life to do a definite job, and knew it as a boy in ray subconscious mind.
What I had to wait thirty-seven years to realize was, that the peculiarities of
my role demanded not a training in the niceties of social performance or even
academic study, but a rigorous schooling in adversity ?.nd a trenchant curriculum
in perverse human nature. I had to wait thirty-seven years to recognize conscious-
ly that I had lived here on earth before — and so has everybody — that before
coning into physical existence with a new body that had to be developed and mas-
tered, I had the -ehoice of parents, environment, and spiritual training, the com-
bined influences from which would supply me with the best equipment, mentally
and temperamentally, for the job I must do. But I came to know more. I came to
accredit that when a nan or a woman lias a specially hard life-errand to consum-
mate, they nay take their training in compounded doses. The harder the child-
hood, the quicker the maturity. The quicker the maturity, the more seasoned and
fa.cile the equipment with which to achieve one’s self-chosen program.
You nay not believe in this sort of thing, and I do not ask you to believe
it. I an telling you how it has been in my own case.
Some people slide into life, to awaken in physical bodies with silver cut-
lery thrusting from their mouths. They have pleasant, carefree childhoods. They
scarcely know a care or worry, even up to marriage. Then they maJte off, they
still -pursue a fairly even tenor of existence, give birth to their progeny, make
a comfortable living, belong to all the best clubs and lodges, and then distin-
guish themselves by dying in sacrosanct decorum. The cemeteries of the world.ane
stuffed with the husks of such mediocrities, who had no special errands to consum-
mate excepting to themselves. No worlds have taken fire in that they existed.
They have been the great rank-and-file who sometimes have committed suicide when
financia.1 reverses were so ungracious as to touch then, or perished of broken
hearts when their nates have eloped with stenographers or icemen. There a.re other
people who have cone into life to make a great dent on society’s moral apathy, to
shake up the cycles wherein they perform, to function as pioneering spirits in pAl-
33
itical, economic, or martial upheavals — or perhaps to write only one poem, or
paint one picture, that influences the culture of a nation or a race. They Imow
it all beforehand but temporarily forget it when mortality snugs about them. To
do that job well, they ask for the bitterest possible doses of mortal vicissitude.
They want life to take them by the scruff of the neck and rub their noses, from
the cradle to the grave, in the abrasive gravels of trenchant experience. They
ask for this sort of thing, and get it. They get it, I believe, by deliberately
choosing the types of parents through whom they shall be born, or the known en-
vironment in which those parents raise then. They begin to acquire worldly exper-
iencing with the casting off of pinafores. They find themselves batted around,
maltreated, generally suppressed. TJhen they come to maturity, they take their
romances with lightning-bolt severity. If a woman or two lets them down, it is
done by a sort of preconceived arrangement that such are their roles, to deliver
the victims, who are not at all victims, their several doses of gruelling heart-
break making for increment in spiritual balance.
It all makes for courage, which, as Ernest Hemingway once said, is but grace
under pressure. No man can be gracious under pressure, which is usually What is
called for when he is destined to live dangerously or dramatically, unless he has
been through spiritual upheaval and proved that he can take it. Some shrivel up
and pass out when they encounter such torment or ordeal, and that is the end to
them and good riddance to them. Others take their medicine and stand up to deso-
lation, learning how to do it for a later time when the mettle of a nation nay rest
upon their stamina.
I got exactly the early training which I required for the job I have to do.
My parents gave me a sound body, which has never once failed me in the tremendous
stresses I have loaded upon it. Father tutored me in a school of morals, reli-
gious and otherwise, that had precious little patience for the fripperies of mod-
ernism. The work he piled upon me brought home to me the rewards of industry
when honestly acquired. He did me no wrong in talcing me from school, although he
did it blindly and perhaps a trifle selfishly. At once he presented me with op-
portunities to learn things that are nowhere in schoolbooks. Smashing my romance
accelerated my commercial progress and allowed me to know what a bankruptcy felt
like before I was old enough to take it to heart. I got all of the assets of such
experiences and few of their liabilities. Then having done his task and intro-
duced me to personal freedom at my majority, he betook himself off and out of my.
affairs. All honor to his memory.
You did a good job, dad. And wherever you are at this moment, I salute youl
^ 0 I stroked on my own.
As soon as I was legally free to do so, I exercised prerogatives and learned
further life lessons that father could not give me. Incidentally I turned down
anj( offer of $10,000 a year to go back to York State, after that crash of our own
company, and manage the mill of an erstwhile competitor. That was big money back
in 1911.
On the evening of my marriage I covered the newspaper assignment for the
State Convention of Massachusetts Laundrymen at the Hotel Kimball, not arriving
home until long after midnight.
I
.
I
y bride had come down from her parental home in Vermont to meet me for the
ceremony, having given up her job as the newspaper’s proofreader. The license
had been secured and the clergyman arranged for. Then, a couple of hours before,
our arrival at the parsonage, a parish call had summoned this pastor tp a dying
sinner’s bedside and the hours sped toward evening with the man remaining absent.
I never desired anyone to die with such despatch as I did that sinner. A fine
34
slusa was falling that winter's twilight and. that laundrynen's.convention was
commanding my attendance. Dead nen, slush, soiled shirts, and matrimonyl
"Cone on," I cried, disgusted, "we'll find another parsonl"
CHAPTER T570
— rJ--tu HITOT was eventually tied and I was hack on my job at eight. I sa.t
through, long speeches on how best to iron the national shirt-front, with
J exactly seven dollars in ny pocket, wondering if my new wife would wait up
for ray return. I had given up ny job as columnist on The Springfield Homestead
to become night editor on The Boston C-lobe in western Massashusetts. It was
seven-dsy-per-week employment.and ray work commenced at five each afternoon. No
matter. It gave me from the time of my forenoon arising yntil dusk to engage in
pursuits aside from The Crlobe. I mantled a printshop. That else would I mantle?
7e had been married on December 15, 1911, by the Rev. A. D. Chadsey. Har-
riet, our first daughter, was born the next year. Thereupon I knew all the
throes of being the proud and finicky young father. Bat long before that hawiened
I came to the conclusion that I could not work for wages. It was anathema to my
temperament. Although without funds, I promoted a newspaper. I had to promote it
The Trench-Canadian mayor of the small manufacturing city of Chicopee , lying
ten miles north of Springfield, was campaigning for reelection on a local option
ticket. The city's more respectable element \?as insisting on reduction in the
number of its saloons. I never perceived the sense in such restrictings. A city
of Polocks could get just as drunk in five saloons as fifty: it simply meant that
five would get ten times the business. But the mayor went forth as the Voice of
Restraint crying in a wilderness of alcoholic wet. If he were reelected, he de-
clared, he would reduce Chicopee's saloons from seventy-five to forty-two.
I knew that the nearby city papers were antagonistic to the mayor, most of
them profiting from liquor advertisements. So I sought out his home one Sabbath
morning — the better the day the better the deed — andnade him a proposal. I
had a printing plant. He had some money, or at least I assumed so and the map
did not dissent. His campaign would hinge on newspaper support. If he -'ould un-
derwrite a paper in Chicopee, I would elect him though I voted for him myself.
The mayor was a big man, that is to say, physically. To control his own
newspaper would be a very fine thing indeed. He expanded behind a thirty-inch
white vest and told me to come back after he had dedicated a suburban hospital
that afternoon, a dedication from which he returned proudly bearing an American
flag, a great scarlet sash, and a bouquet of dahlias. Being generally elated by
the day!s adulation, he agreed to start the project by going on my note for at
least a thousand dollars. He was still wearing the sash as we arranged these
details. Thirty-one of his French Canadian supporters.thou^it well enough of
the project to contribute five dollars apiece toward the paper's success. He
was the sort of a mayor who had five-dollar friends . .
I removed my Springfield plant to Chicopee and brought out the first issue
of the paper — a weekly. Most of its front page was taken up by an enormous
portrait of the mayor in his sash, and I wrote from the heart when I told all
good Chicopeans that here was a standard-bearer who could thrash the Demon Run.
7as he not bucking an all-powerful brewing company in the city to the south? I
was for him to a man, and that man was myself.
Let no one try to tell me of political corruption. I fought for that mayor
with crusading zeal. I also had ray newspaper venture to fight for, and the sus-
tained adala-tion of an observant young wife. The local political bosses in the
35 •
opposition wanted to know who the blank-blank was pushing that vitrolic pen in
the fat mayor’s favor. Election day approached, and I felt that our campaign
was a foregone conclusion. Yes, we had it in the hag. I said so to the mayor
and he swelled like a bullfrog.
At a quarter to eleven o’clock on the morning before election, a newspaper
friend dropped in from Springfield. He laid photostat copies of documents on
my desk. He said, "That for your Galahad out of Quebecl"
I glanced at the photostats. Then I grabbed for them, palsied. They were
reproductions of a true secret contract which My Lord Mayor had entered upon,
weeks before, with the aforesaid brewing company, guaranteeing to work for it
clandestinely and only close those saloons which it did not supply if vt sup-
plied him with funds for his political campaign. Of such was the money that had
financed my enterprise. I sat for a time on the small of my back.
"Do you want then?" asked my friend, flipping at the prints.
"How come," I whispered, "ycru donjt use them . . yourself?"
"Decause they sock the brewery far worse than Hi? Nibs. And the brewery’s
our advertiser. Six and four make ten."
I sat for a time with explosions assembling. Sol, After all the miasma of
putrid politics through which I had waded in the recent six weeks, my male Carrie
Nation was a delusion and a snarel I rang for the boy.
"Hush these pkoto stats over to the engravers. .Say that I want cuts by one
o'clock sharpl"
"Tjhat are you going to do?" asked my informant.
"That's left to do? C-IVE HIM THE TCOHES1"
Dy one o'clock I had a complete reversal of my mayoralty support in scream-
ing headlines across my front page. I told the citizens exactly the chicane to
which I had lent myself. Dy the time I got through with what I thought of my
erstwhile backer, his reputation was not worth exchanging for a bowl of French
dressing. The forms were all ready to go on the press. Thereat I made the strat-
egic error of leaving for lunch. Into the lunchroom burst an excited small boy
as I finished ray dessert, "neyl" he bawled. "Yqu better come over to Center
Street and see what they're doin' to your paper!"
I raced to my office. The place was a mess. My typeracks were spilled,
my press ’
-as disabled. On the floor was my front page, demolished by a mallet.
Someone had obviously phoned the mayor of how I had reacted and what his own
journal was to say of him that night. I had a sneaking hunch as to that some-
one's identity. But the mayor's strong-arm henchmen had arrived with despatch.
So likewise had the City Marshal. This official had a warrant for my immediate
arrest. The charge? Obtaining money under false pretenses. I had undertaken to
promote that bloated nabob and what had I shown myself but a double-crossing in^
grate? "I'm sorry," said the Marshal. "You hnow that I'm for you, but the mayor
is my boss and I've got to run you in."
"For how long?" I quavered.
"Till a.fter election day at least. His Nibs can't afford to have those docu-
ments come out."
"You're putting me in j-jail?"
"And howl" said the policeman.
To make matters worse, that Human Hippopotamus had likewise sworn out a war-
rant for the arrest of my bride, ner name as well as mine was appended to that
note. So down to the City Hall we rode, this time not to the mayor's sumptuous
office but the odorous tank beneath it. The mayor was elsewhere when the.Marshal
brought us in, getting bouquets of dahlias for his stand on Prohibition.
So they cast me in the dungeon, refusing me counsel, denying me bond. Dehind
36
iron bars I stayed, for two nights and a day. And the mayor was reelected.
Father bailed me out and fetched me an attorney.
"They can't do this to you!" roared that lawyer when he saw me — an opin-
ion belated by fifty-four hours.
Thereat he intervie\Ted that mayor.
One hundred and eighty-six dollars an hour, I believe it was that he paid
me, for every sixty minutes of that dank incarceration. The charges were with-
drawn. I was free to engage in my business as I could. Three days later the
Respectable Element recognized what had happened. I was summoned to the office
of an Affluent Citizen.
"How much money do you need, to run that Fat Toad into British Columbia —
by another election?"
I mentioned small thousands.
"Faugh! . . take a million!"
I did not get a million, but I got a financial backing that permitted me to
conduct that paper for six prosaic months for the city's wholesome element. At
which the mayor did a dastardly thing.
He suddenly died in office.
Said my backers in assembly: "Quite as good as British Columbia *
— the place
that he's landed — only perhaps a few degrees hotter!"
And from that night, thereafter, they seemed to forget me . .
But it had been a great little fight while it lasted and my experiences had
encompassed a virulent immersion in municipal politics. I had made the discovery
that if you do not lower your colors in the face of lecherous duress, you do not
have to lower your colors at all. This nation is filled with honest, decent-
minded people who will back up a man who dares tell them the truth.
Nevertheless, I was locked in a jail, finding out exactly how it feels to
have iron bars before.my freedom — let my present enemies make out of it a.ll
that they will. I am proud of the episode, considering its premise. Inciden-
tally came revenge . .
On the day before election I was coning down with mumps. Plien the marshal
arrested me, those mumps were growing poisonous, j gave them to the marshal, I
gave them to the jailer. I started a first-class epidemic of mumps in that hoos-
gow. Thence they seeped abovestairs. The city clerk took them, and the mayor's
private secretary. If my memory serves me right, The Lord-God Himself felt a
harshness in his throat. The day after election he looked into the mirror and
realized the worst: the bulges of his jowls had by no means got there from the
delivery of orations. The blinds were drawn on the mayor's domicile for tlie
next painful week while I set about the business of remantling ray plant. The
mayoralty head of Chicopee was abovestairs in a monstrous dressing-gown, '"order-
ing when the doctor was coming to lance him! . .
The only person besides the mayor whom I had hoped would catch those mumps
but did not, was the meddlesome person who had brought me those photostats.
"Pas it you who phoned the mayor?" I demanded when I saw him.
"After the trouble of securing them," he laughed, "I had to get a story out
of them somehow."
I felt that my new wife never quite forgave me for involving her, however.
Phile she had been immediately released upon her own cognizance, she had none-
theless suffered the disgrace of arrest. Pas I really the bright young business
man whom she had accepted? Pomen have strange ways of viewing such matters.
So everything seemed to go wrong from the start.. My hopes had been high
and my prospects had been excellent. But I never could play the game the moment
that .I realized that it ran counter to my principles. Not that I would lean
over backward in righteousness. Rather put it that my Methodist ethics were more
3V
potent than my prospects. There was a right way and a wrong way, always.and
forever. The moment I threw a sop to my scruples, something would go out of me.
Father had said, "Make the most of your life. Never let it get you downl" I'is
repeated suggestions could not compromise with roguery.
I had done a lot of thinking while locked in that hastile. The experience
was but a pocket-handkerchief edition of what I was to go through nationally when
I fought a vaster lechery — not that I knew it, of course, at the time. I
clung to my precepts and had a revelation of all the wholesome support I needed
as a matter of reaction. As it was with Chicopee City, so may it be with the
entire United States. People will eventually come from their coma. They will
recognize how vigorously constructive this fight has been at its core from the
start.
Still, my new wife later reminded me of the taint of her arrest. I had no
business monkeying with the politics of a French-Canuck element, it seemed.
When the. getter Classes.expected too much reprint of Sunday sermons in The Jour-
nal and the pajjers were becoming too flossy to sell, I disposed of the project
and went up to Vermont . .
CHAPTER THREE
~ r J HE WIFE I had married was Marion Harriet Stone and she had been born in
Millers Falls, Mass, of a mother who was a Waste. The Wastes are too well
J known in northwestern Massachusetts for me to eulogize them here. The name,
I was told, was a derivative from West, and the Wests from whom they in turn were
derived were the equally well-known clan who sidled The Mayflower Compact.
We ’
"ere mated intellectually, and in a manner of speaking, professionally —
she having followed the printing craft like myself on finishing school, learning
her business of proofreading at the Cambridge plant of Houston, Mifflin g Co.
Temperamentally, however, we were as opposite as the poles. I was creative, ven-
turesome, crusading. Life to me was a constant campaign, with objectives to be
won and heights to be conquered. Marion was conservative even to complacency.
She viewed life, it later seemed to me, not as a campaign but rather as a program.
You lived life, not in reaction to a Pounding Urge that banged your chassis to
pieces if you could not get traction, but by arising at seven o’clock each morn-
ing and having your breakfast. Then you repaired to your daily labors and pur-
sued then diligently until it was tine to go home at night — with an hour off
for lunch. You did this six days a week, with the Sabbath off for rest, four
weeks to the month, twelve months to the year. At the end of each year you were
one year older, just as at the end of each week, or possibly each month, you were
certain dollars richer. You used this money to pay the bills incurred by living
and if you could contrive a surplus, you banked it. Gradually you got ahead and
owned a little better and larger homestead, and had a larger circle of more afflu-
ent friends. When you finally came to die, the local newspaper said nice things
about you — perhaps half a column — and all sorts of people attended your fun-
eral. Such was living life "successfully1
1 as it was held up to me. I have no
comment to make upon it, excepting that for some people it.may be commendable and
suitable but that I am not one of theml
To me, that sort of existence was a sort of paralysis. It was walking about
in a state of living death. Each day to me was a challenge to achieve, to essay
something more noteworthy or impelling in character than yesterday or la.st week.
It was a separate life-cycle unto itself, with its beginning and its ending, its
inception and its climax. To do the same thing twice in succession, in the same
manner and at the sane tempo, was to demonstrate that nothing had been learned,
that no progress had been made, that the spirit had gone static. After that un-
believable catastrophe at the factory, too, when my most sensitive years at in-
dustrial effort had culminated in financial fiasco, I was left with a fixation
in regard to money that from Marion's standpoint was as abstruse as it was hap-
less. Money to me was a means to an end. For a natter of years I had ruthless^
ly conserved and compounded money. Ttfhen it got into the hundred thousand dollar
status, the unstable and ephemeral nature of Money had suddenly revealed itself,
As an intrinsic value within itself, it was data on books. If the figures were
sizable enough, you wrote checks against then and had delivered --'hat you wanted.
Somehow it wa.s a false standard by which to measure achievement, since yoy. had
it one moment in sizable quantities, or your bank teller told you that you did,
and the next moment, through no particular fault of your own, you did not. Mil-
lions of my industrious and thrifty fellow citizens have come through this De-
pression with their standards of money similarly altered. Only I had such adjust-
ment at the time of my majority. Money had proved a false friend, quite as much
as it had been a Frankenstein, at the crisis in our business. It left me with a
strange complex in regard to Money, that it only became of importance when I did
not possess enough of it for some project in.hand.
Shis became utterly incomprehensible to the girl I had married. I have no
word of criticism to offer on her philosophy. Femininity's '
first demand on life
is Security. Shis is particularly true if the woman be maternal. Her children
must be provided for, in order to nurture them for their places in society. Mar-
ion did not see life in terms of any particular dragons to be vanquished, un-
less they.were the dragons of one's personal Improvidence. She was fiercely mat-
ernal, almost fanatical about the welfare and the safety of her children as they
were born. Still, we had obligations and responsibilities of a cosmic nature to-
ward each other, that had to be discharged. And we proceeded to discharge then.
Thereupon, it seemed, I bade goodbye to dad . .
"r'-IAT curious collapse of the tissue paper company, father had taken hard.
J He felt that after a hectic career, adjudged by his standards, and after a
life of novings to and fro, he had at last encountered success only to have it
turn to tar and ashes in his life. He brooded considerably oyer my marriage to
Marion — whom at first he did not like, she being but another Mabel in his es-
timation — and implied that I should never be married at all. Or at such times
as he unbended, he treated my new connubial status with parental condescension,
as though I were merely playing at matrimony. This state of tension maintained
between us. In addition, his losses in the tissue company left him more or less
embarrassed. It was his turn now to hold me responsible.
I had demonstrated that a.fter all I had not been quite the smart cub that
I acted. His manner conveyed that if I load not tried to run things, or had been
more prone to harken to his counsel of retrenchment all along the line, we would
still have the business and the increments of industry. Desides, he had enjoyed
living largely on his trips on the road. These were now denied him. He turned
his hand to a little real estate, to helping with my newspaper, tq running a
photo-engraving plant — a job that I secured for him. There was always a bit of
the little Newfoundland lad in father that was altogether lovable. He wanted to
show his easy ability to cope with life as he found it down here in "the States"
and when things went against him, his blue eyes showed.panic. One day he came to
me and half-ashamedly wanted to borrow the money to go to New York and take a
job with a paper house. I was glad to let him have it. I contemplated transfer-
ring the scene of my journalistic endeavors to Vermont and hoped that he could
39
make enough to keep hin and nother. The night before I left for Vermont, having
taken a
. job with The Deerfield Valley Tines, I bade hin goodbye on the side ver-
anda of the Florence Street hpuse where he stretched in the hannock. The soft
August evening was vibrant with the zylophones of crickets. Tire fragrance of
syringas ba.thed us as incense. How could I know we had cone to the panting?
Strangely enough, in that last hour I spent with hin, we talked of religion:
of Pastor Russell's Hatch Tower Society in which father had found an interest.
I finally kissed hin and went down the walk to the carline, with bags containing
conbings of ny possessions that had been in mother's custody*
It was the last tine I ever saw hin.
Thus was completed the bittersweet saga that had begun for ne in and about
that 1
‘
Torth Prescott church, followed through to Hast Templeton with its weird
infant scmon, embraced the sending ne forth into the cold and cruel world in
Templeton Center and the grisly mishap later on the Otter Diver road, taken us
through C-ardner, the store, the Christmas seasons with Aunt Georgia, the saving
of ny neck on the Windsor House veranda, comprised his helping ne to buy the
handpress and advancing ne the money to get types and fixtures, made the tragic
trail to Fulton, with the crushing of ny romance that threw such poignant switches.
Hext day he started for New York, and from there went out toward Pittsbur^a.
My last letter from hin, received in Vermont, was dated from Harrisburg. Then
the days became a week, and the weeks became a month. Mother cane up to Vernont
from Springfield, frantic with alarm. ’
Shat could have become of hin? My sister
confided to me that word h&d been received through one of our uncles that he had
been seen and recognized on a street in Wichita, Kansas. From that point his
trail wended into The Mist. Whether he was a victim of amnesia, whether for rea-
sons of his own he wanted to go off and begin life afresh, whether the Kansas re-
port was false and somewhere in Pennsylvania lie had met with foul play -- is the
mystery of my manhood. Certainly were he alive, I cannot conceive that.he would
be preserving a silence after all the notoriety that his son has stirred up —
somewhere, in the nature of things, I should long ago have heard of him.
Ok welll I an a nan grown myself now, and have lived to see my own boy
declare his personality, differ from my views, show definite inclinations for
living his own life. Perhaps father learned too, from his contact with myself.
It could not have been one sided.
I assumed mother's support aftor she had exhausted the meager savings and
property that had been left in her possession. Edna married presently, a.fter an
interval of working on my paper up in Vermont. I had ny own way to make, with a
wife, a baby, a mother, and subsequently a mother-in-law, who looked to me for
their principle sustenance. . .
I set my wits to work. I succeeded in worming my way into the ownership
of The Deerfield Valley Times in Uilnington, Vermont . »
CHAPTER FOUR
W
ILMINGTON was a little crossroads village in the center of the State,
down rather close to the Massachusetts line. Today factories have cone
in. Cement roads and filling stations have modernized its aspect. Hut
twenty years ago Uilmington was a very quiet and sedate little town, not unlike
East Templeton. Most of its cottage homes were white with green blinds. Its
lawns were close-cropped. Most house walls showed hollyhocks. Down through
the center of its drowsy business section — which smelled mainly.of its tan
walks and feed stores — purled^the stony Deerfield River, a shallow, nut-brown
stream -'ith a red iron bridge where it flowed beneath Main Street.
40
At t-is bridge's western end, built flush with the embankment,
.I had during
an earlier visit seen the plant of the town’s only weekly. It was an eight-page
boilerplate weekly, run by a nan naned Dixon. I had net this Dixon. lie was a
lean little nan of sone fifty years. He load piercing green eyes, a sharp Vermont
face, and handlebar mustaches above a. curt nouth. lie went about his printing
shop fron year1s end to year’s end in a khaki shirt, with vest unbuttoned, and
corduroy trousers stuffed into brogans. As often he wore his hunting-cap. A
buzzy cob pipe completed his ensenble. His wife did his typesetting, with a baby-
cart beside her.
iTo, Hie Times was not for sale but he did need a printer. The job that he
offered paid twelve dollars a week. It seemed for a tine an inglorious tumble,
from ten thousand a year offered by the competitor of previous mention to twelve
dollars per Saturday on a smudgy country weekly. Dut Wilmington was sleepy,
quiet, tranquil. That nut-brown water crooned vepy pleasantly beneath the office
windows on July afternoons. Desides, living expenses in Wilmington were propor-
tionately lower than they had been in Springfield.
"I’
m going to take the job," I confided to Marion. "Give me six months and
I’ll.own the plant. You’ll see."
Marion was not adverse to making the removal. It brought her near her.par-
ents. Her mother had lost her father in middle married life and become the spouse
of a man named Holbrook. "Pa Holbrook" was an invalid and presently he died. So
to Wilmington we moved. I took up my work.
Dut no sooner was I ensconced in Dixon’s plant, than the man and I began to.
cross temperaments. He would pack his rifle or fishing-rod beneath his arm and
be gone for four days out of each week. His wife and I attended to the.business.
Then Dixon showed up, and for a hectic two days we printed the paper. If he did
not like anything that I had done in his absence, he invariably said so. I did
quite a lot in those absences of viiich he disapproved. He had a particular foible
for criticizing anything that savored of new methods in his. plant, for saving tine
or expenses. .What was tine in a place like Wilmington?
We did the printing for the local railroad. One of its forms consisted of
freight bills. Always they had been run one freight bill at a tine. I favored
setting the form in quadruplicate and cutting press runs down to one-quarter. "Ho,"
said Dixan, coming in from one of his fishing trip?, "we always have run ’em one
bill at a time and we ain’t gonna change it for no printer fr’m Springfield." lie
talked like that. Dluntly. I stood it two months.
"I’m going to Boston," I told Marion one noontime. 1
1I’m going to tackle
Martin Brown and see if he won’t back me in buying Dixon’s mortgage."
Martin Brown was a distant relative of MariorJ.’s, a Wilmington boy who had
gone to the city and made a small fortune in lumber and water-power. The Browns
owned a summer place just east of the village. I had learned during ray weeks of
labor for Dixon that considerable feeling existed in the valley against flooding
the Whitinghan district for a reservoir. Vermont people had a certain spleen
against prosperous farms and venerated burying-grohnds being condemned by the
legislature for The Hew England Electric Power Company. And Martin had an inter-
est in building that reservoir. It seemed to me that with such condemnation pro-
ceedings in prospect wholesale, what he and his associates needed wa,s not only
the loca.l paper’s endorsement but a certainty of its allegiance. Dixon was ob-
durate. lie wrote vitrolic editorials damning the development.
Down to Boston I went, and crashed Martin’s office. He was a lean, likeable
chap, with an eye to the main chance, not adverse to assisting a young man with
ambition. "Okay," he said finally, after two or three conferences, "I’ll raise
41
you the money — at least for the nortcage. Today* s Friday, . . you wait over
here until tomorrow afternoon and we*11 motor up to Brattleboro together and
see the local hank folks. But it»s understood that you’re to hack the power
company to the limit and win the yalley over to the Whitingham development. In
fact, I think I’d better start off with a statement of my own, disarming those
folks a
,
s to just what we’re about. 1
1
Brown* s big limousine carried us to Brattleboro that Saturday afternoon and
by Monday at ten, and for one year thereafter,.the mortgage on The Tines was
transferred to me. I got back to Wilmington by country roads westward.
1
1Where have ypu been?1
' Dixon flared at me.
"Oh," said I, "just moseying jround."
"Moseyin’, eh? Waal, s’pose you nosey ’logg out back and put on more fpeight-
bills for delivery to the railroad."
I got into my apron and pulled out the slides containing standing forms.
I pulled out the three extra forms I had set up to cut the costs of press-work.
I locked then up together. Dixon came out, rifle slung beneath his a m . lie was
off on a hunting trip.
"Wait a minute, youl" he cried in some heat. "Thopght I told you to run them
things separately."
"You did," I responded, "but J don’t have to do it."
"Wassat?"
"I said, I donjt think I will."
"Which of us is crazy?"
"I’m not crazy. Bun along to your hunting. Stay as long, as you like. Stay
a year if you want. You see, I’ve bought your mortgage."
For a moment I thought Dixon would use his gun to shoot me. He scuffed in-
to the office and cranked the wall phone. A call through to Brattleboro estab-
lished what had happened.
"Sol" he said finally. "You’re one o ’ them birds that snaps the hand that
feeds you?"
"Birds don’t snap," I answered serenely. "I just got tired of having you
drive me. How suppose we tallc about how much you ought to have for your equity
in this paper" . •
“flE FJBST issue of The Times after my acquisition, startled the valley. Off
-1 had gone the static front-page ads and the half-dead boilerplate columns of.
twaddle. Headlines appeared. Pictures with local interest enlivened its fea-
tures. One noon the cider mill burned to the gropnd, threatening half the town.
I came out with an Extra! This was unheard-of. Old Man Kidder scuffed intp the
office. He held a copy of this Extra in his hgnd. "Wassa idea?" he growled.
"You don’t need to waste all this good white paper screamin’ at us this way. We
was all to the fire. We know that it happened!"
Those Vermonters liked their paper to keep its musty flavor . .
In the first issue after succeeding to its management, I had told the val-
ley frankly that it had been wrong, wrong, all wrong, about the Whitingham dev-
elopment. The power company was not the evil thing they thought. It did not
kick cripples, starve orphans, or soak corpses in water by legislative condemn-
ation. It was a State benefaction that was under way. Moreover, the officials
of the power company were presently to make a statement through my paper that
should forever lay suspicion about their calloused lack of altruism.
It was this last announcement that took the valley by the ears. The sig-
nificant silence of the power company up till then, had condemned it up and down.
I was promising an inside story of their plans and motivations. Farmerfokc who
4.2
liad not read The Times in years, dropped into the office and paid up bach sub-
scriptions. And true to his promise, Martin Brown wrote out a lengthy state-
ment and nailed it to Wilmington to be set into type.
I got out one of the best issues of which the plant was capable. We usu-
ally went to.press on a Wednesday afternoon, but the hour was well advanced to-
ward evening before this issue was ready to print. Suddenly I heard the tele-
phone jangle. Boston was calling on the long-distance wire.
It 7/as Martin Brown's office. And his instructions were emphatic. Under
no circumstances was I to publish a single line of his statement until his secre-
tary could reach me and make certain explanations. I hooked the receiver with
caloric reactions.
"Something's wrong somewhere," I reported to Marion's brother, Ernest, who
had given up "his. job as pressman at the Springfield Printing & Binding Company
to help me with The Tines. "!7e'd better hold over the printing of this issue
till the mQrning."
dnots of critical Vermonters began applying at the office for the paper af-
ter supper. T7here was the power company's statement? I had to close the place
and go home to be rid of them. At noon next day a smart young nan stepped. <?ff
the Boston train.
"Martin's instructions are to kill that story, lock, stock, and barrell"
was his devastating order. "And he sent me up to make sure that all copies of
it are destroyed."
"tJhat's the large idea?"
My caller shrugged his shoulders. "Guess Martin acted without consulting
his attorneys. They don't want a line printed of what they contemplate doing
in this valley. They say it's nobody's business but their own."
"In other words, the public be damned, eh? But what about the public in-
terest I've got worked up?"
"It's neither here nor there. Where's Martin's manuscript?"
"See herel Martin can't treat me like this. It means my. reputation in
this valley."
"And perhaps it means the reputation of the power company. Where's Mar-
tin's manuscript?"
"Supposing I don't give it to you?"
"You'll find yourself out of this paper like a shot from a gun."
Uas it the French mayor episode all over again? Marion said no. "After
all, the company's. business is its own. Martin acted precipitously and prob-
ably wants to back up while there!s time. Besides, don't you forget that he’s
a relative of mine. It'll make too much of a shindy in my family if you go
ahead and ignore his instructions."
So I submitted. I relinquished the manuscript and remade my front page.
In the center of it I put a boxed editorial —
"Vord has come suddenly.from Boston that counsel for the power company
thinks it inadvisable to make a statement before, the legislature meets," was
the gist of its intelligence.
To use a mild metaphor, that valley BLEW UPl
J was the subservient tool of the power company. The power company owned
The Times. Free journalism was dead. Tire voice of the press had ceased to
exist. A quota of my readers visited on street corners with my apology torn
angrily. It was all a hoax from the start, they said. "This smart Alec never
had any. story from the power company* lie got us hot and bothered to make him-
self new readers. More of his blarsted yellow journalism. We'll show him where
he sitsl" And assuredly they did.
43
CHAPTER FIVE
AT:IOIT did not cone over for'her usual hitch at a typecase one afternoon
in the winter which, followed. "Something ails little Harriet," was the
word she sent across the street. "If she doesn’t get better by dark, I
shall call Dr. Dunn." I went hone to supper that night to find our small daugh-
ter fretting upon,her cot, digging at her ears and kicking the bedclothes off in
a peeve. She was ordinarily a sweet-tempered, violet-eyed little thing, just
beginning to walk.
Two days slipped by and Harriet grew no better. At ten-thirty one morning,
my wife hurried into the office. "Dr. Dunn’s decided that he wants Harriet in
the Drattleboro Hospital. Something ails the baby that he can’t seem to diag-
nose."
I recall exactly where I was standing, pulling out a typecase, when this
ugly news was brought to me. "Do you want me to leave and,drive her over?"
"Ho, mother's come up from Jacksonville. You phone the Hospital that we're
driving in. Doctor will get us there behind his fast span."
I phoned the Hospital to reserve a room, then hurried to the house. Har-
riet was being dressed and rolled in thick blankets.
"'Byel" she shook her chubby little hand at me, as they bore her down the
stairs . .
I returned to my work with.my heart encased in ice. Something whispered of
tragedy. In my twenty-two years till then, the hand of.The Reaper had not
touched my family intimately . .
I got a call from the Hospital later that midnight. "You'd better come
over first thing in the morning," ry wife's tight voice suggested. "The baby's
been in coma ever since we got her here."
A heavy snow fell that night. I procured a horse and sleigh from Craft's
Livery and started alone for Drattleboro. Ernest and Edna must get out the
paper. Driving up Hogback Mountain in cold, sunny forenoon, a sense of what
lay ahead seized hold of me. As the horse stumbled onward through sun-rcfract-
ing snowdrifts, I choked back full sobs.
"Oil C-od, don't let her diel" I groaned in a different agony than I had.
known to date. "Hot my babyl Hot minel1
1
I had to learn that one does not make bargains with divine Providence . .
I spent the rest of that week in Drattleboro. Physicians were called in
consultation. Tests of spinal fluid resulted in no known diagnosis. Money was
nothing in that ghastly dilemma. For the first time in ny life I went reckless-
ly into debt. Hospital bills mounted. Specialists came up from Harvard Univer-
sity to examine this child's queer coma. They tallied their Latin phrases, said,
"Most interesting, most interestingl" and went back shrugging their shoulders.
"I've got to get back to Wilmington," I told Marion finally. "If anything
happens to the paper I won't have money for these bills."
She had her mother to sustain her. I drove back over the road, not seeing
a foot of landcape. Mrs. Holbrook was the kind of woman who was always called
in by neighbors in emergency, anyhow. I reached home in twilight and stabled
my exhausted horse. At a. quarter to twelve that midnight, I had just gone to
bed when a messenger came over from the telephone exchange. Drattleboro wanted
me on r.y office telephone. I knew what awaited me as I crossed the sleeping
Square . .
"We've lost Harriet," was the way it came — in my mother-in-law's brave
voice. "We'll be back over home on tomorrow noon's train."
The little white casket came over from Drattleboro two days later. Old Man
44
Kidder palled it down, from the station on a hand-sled. We held the funeral in
the snail.front room of our Main Street flat. It brought together all the neigh-
bors and relatives . . "I an the resurrection and the life," began the village
minister . •
Marion did not weep. She sat beside ne on the divan and her hand found nine
in a grip of agony. She had shed all her tears in those hours at the hospital*
Harriet had died of cerebral meningitis.
We did not stay to see that poignant little box carried down the stairs.
3y prearrangenent with kindly neighbors, J had a car waiting at the foot of the
stairs that would take my wife and me to the three o’clock train — to get out
of that village for the first awful night. The body was to be kept in the local
cemetery vault until the spring, anyhow.
I took Marion down to Springfield. It was a week before we returned to
Wilmington. On ny desk was a letter from Martin Brown.
"Are you prepared to pay the interest on your mortgage next wee];?" he ruer-
ied ne. "Also I’ve.got a letter to hand from your local insurance man. He says
you’ve been careless about keeping up your insurance premiums and is looking to
me to reimburse him."
I sat down and tried to tell the nan what a financial Golgotha I wa.s living
through.
"You should keep your business and your family affairs separate," he sub-
sequently responded. "You showed very poor judgment going away and spending
money on a Springfield trip after the death of your infant. Also, while I’
m
on the subject of infants, I note in the columns of your paper last week that
you took half a page to tell the people of the valley all about its peculiar
death. After all, you’re not the only young father that ever lost a baby.
What does southern Vermont care that yours had died strangely?"
I wrote back to Martin Brown. I told him in substance that he could take
his paper, his mortgage, his ideas about journalism, and jump in the lake.of
/fiery brimstone reserved for the devil and all his angels. Then I went home
and into a
. bedroom where an agonized young mother was sobbing in the dark.
"ITo little white-flannel nightie to put on tonight," she whispered broken-
ly, "and it must be cold, cold, up in that vault half buried in the snow . . "
The young people of the village were giving a dance that evening in the
adjacent town hall. Hour after hour came the whine of the saxophones, the
thump of the piano keys, the shuffle of dancing feet, the beat of the drums.
Twelve o’clocl; came and it did.not terminate. Blaro-blare-blare 1 — tdsot—
toot-toot— -beat-beat-beat1 Would they never give up their dratted frivolities
and go homo? But they did not. And I lay there. At one o'clock they were
still at it. At two o'clock they started up afresh. Deep in maddening c
h
a
r
]
-ness
I remained inert and let the iron seep into my soul. Death and, dancing. Danc-
ing and death. There was nothing I could do about it. I was standing up to
life — in a reclining position. The bucolic revelry went on . .
0M3H0W I floundered through the balance of that winter. I had alienated the
valley by the power company hijinks. To make both ends meet I went down to
Horth Adams and solicited department store advertising. That alienated my
local advertisers who wanted buying kept in town but who would not advertise
themselves. Marion had changed angL I could not blame her. Perhaps I too had
changed as a result of that Gethscmane. At length the spring of 1914 came
beautifully over Vermont's Green Mountains. Harriet was lowered into a little
grave in a quiet corner of the cemetery on the hill. Pew Sabbath mornings
passed that Marion and I did not go up among the ragged asters and sweet white
45
clover end tend that tiny plot of ground where we had “
buried something that
was a fragment of ourselves . .
Then summer arrived, I found myself so deeply entangled in affairs of
Tine Times, principally from mulcting my business to pay for Harriet’s illness,
that there was no saving it. One day in July a sprightly college graduate ap-
peared in my office in a funny hat.
"My name’s T/hite, 1
1 he announced. "Martin Drown sent me up here to take
charge of this paper."
"And what becomes of all the work that I’ve put into it?"
"That’s your funeral.”
I got my hat and went over to the house. "This afternoon," I proposed
to Marion, "we’re driving over the mountain to Bennington. Maybe Frank Howe
will give me a job on The Danner."
He came home that night by starlight. I had the job.
I had failed with The Times. Failed miserably. And that in my wife’s
home tom. T
7
e owed every tradesman in the place and I still had ghastly bills
in Drattleboro. My own mother was half-crazed by Harriet’s passing. To com-
plete the irony of my predicament, a new life was beating beneath my wife’s
heart . .
Hhat was it that father had so often said to me? . • "Stand up to life,
never let it get you down!" Yes, I would stand up to life. On the last day
of July our tenement was vacated. I left for Bennington by train, via Green-
field. At noon, while waiting at the junction of the Greenfield station, I
bought a.copy of The Boston Globe. Emblazoned over the front page were fore-
ign despatches narrating the assassination of a certain Austrian arch-duke at
Sarajevo. "If Serbia does not apologize, Germany may declare war within forty-
eight hours," declared the text. I rode up to Dennington apprizing myself of
the fraught transpirings three thousand miles eastward.
I took up my duties on The Evening Danner on that tragic August 4th, 1914.
The first headlines I set up as foreman on the Dennington daily had to do with
the as soult on Liege.
Back in Hilmington, my twenty-six year old brother-in-law stayed on with
young Hhite. A few months later the Vermont newspaper fraternity learned that
through peculiar convolutions of local finance, George Dixon was back in his
old place as editor. Indeed, and why not? Sharp practices of on order had
secured me The Times. He always get paid in our own coin for every deal of in-
iquity wc finance.
"The Times has been siclrl" was the opening line of Dixon’s editorial after
tailing back the property.
The boiler-plate, the stereotyped advertisements, the columns of provincial
county correspondence, were returned at once to the smudgy front page.
They are there at this moment.
CIIAPTEH SIX'
H the extreme southwestern comer of Vermont lies Dennington, a town of ten
tnousand people, its tempo more like a small metropolis in York State than
J the rugged Green Mountains. I have written four novels and two.hundred
published short stories that were laid in this town of Dennington. Only in
fiction, that was not always fiction, the place was named Paris . .
It was a sedate yet sprightly community, depending upon a knitting mill
for its industrial prosperity, having one long Main Street bisecting it east
and west, the intersection of North and South Streets providing it with its
46
■business section. It was a brick sidewalk, naple tree towered sort of town,
with a single trolley line passing through Main Street and the famous "attie
Monument lifting its noble obelisk on the hill to the west. It had no swollen
wealth and on the other hand no squalor. It did have some snobbery, but what
small town does not? On the south side of Main Street, between Endress broth-
ers Cigarstore and Griswold*s News Noon, a corridor ran to the rear of the
building. At the end of this corridor was a door to the left. The opening of
this door ushered one into The Evening banner office.
The paper had been established by Lieutenant Governor Prank E. Howe some
ten years before, by the simple expedient of combining two weeklies that had
Gone on the rocks. Frank was a tall, smooth-shaven, bald-headed non with rim-
less spectacles down his nose, through which brown sheeps-eyes looked forth on
the world. He resembled a prosperous physician far more than he did an editor,
or should I put it that he was a physician for the troubles of the town? Cer-
tainly I never have net a nan who was more sought after as a fixer of difficul-
ties, both public and private. lie was conservative, soft-spoken, sure to see
his way to the end of any proposition before embarking on it, and content to
let The banner run along from year to year, making a modest profit but making
it, while he climbed his way to the State’s lieutenant governorship and from
there to the dizzy heights of local Bennington postmaster.
Sinsley, his editor, more familiarly known as "Clate", was a town insti-
tution. He wore thick—lensed glasses before his sandy-red face, was conven-
iently dea.f in one of his ears, and was married to the fortunes and destinies
of Tie banner as to a wife. His age was indeterminate. As he got along in
years, his shoulders bowed slightly. And he did everything in that office
which tne others would not do — from running the paper in Frank’s absence in
Montpelier to melting pigs of metal to stoke the single linotype. Every small-
town newspaper must have such a functionary or it lands in disaster. Clate was
Frank’s alter-ego, working in the office early and late, going about the busi-
ness section coatless, a rakish green eyeshade over his forehead, sliding into
this place and that place after news with one shoulder a trifle higher than the
other but always getting what he went after, beloved by all who knew him. His
chief facial adornment was a mammoth calabash pipe which he was forever firing
from a paper spill which had first been thrust in the office coal-stove. His
chief ambition in life wqs to write a successful story about the drilling of an
oil well, in which he had participated as a younger man in Taittier, California.
Tic business offices of The banner consisted of two snail rooms, with a
door in the inner room loading out to the composing-room. In this pla.ee at the
time of my advent was one Number Five linotype and a Conet Duplex press. Tne
rest of Tne banner was some battered fonts of type and two unforgetable char-
acters in the ad-alley, John Greene and John burton. To be strictly fair there
were sundry other employees among then Ida Livingstone, the machine opcra.tor,
Bernard Lladigan, a freckled-face Irish boy with an optimistic nose, and Pete
Madison, a boy of all werk who was likewise town sheik. Ida was an assertive
lady who had once essayed matrimony and found it not so much, bemard was an
equally assertive jackanapes who would venture anything and approve of it on
principle. Jreene and burton were compositors.
Into tais plant, and among such persons, I cano as foreman, makeup-man,
and pressman. I allot so much space to description of this outfit, not only
because it served as model for my Paris Daily Telegraph in four,novels and
two hundred magazine stories, but because on those premises I settled down to
a thorough education in the small—town daily newspaper business.
And I learned itl
\
47
liarion joined me in Bennington a few days la,ter and we set up housekeep-
ing in a two-roon flat on the second floor of 119 Jefferson Avenue. Our second
daughter Adelaide was b o m in September.
3ut those ghastly Wilmington bills were hounding no. The Pastes, the
Stones, and the Holbrooks were thesort of people who considered it a nore sac-
red duty to meet one’s obligations than it was a crime to loot a neighbor’s
henroost. I had a job -7 such as it was at $1S weekly — and ny wife and new
baby were eating on schedule, PutI never could get out of that slough of debt
on savings fron ny wages.
One night in Griswold's Hews Room I picked up a copy of The American Maga-
zine. John Siddell had recently assumed its management, coning fron a Sunday
editorship on The Cleveland Plain Dealer. In this particular issue of The Amer-
ican, John had devoted a full-page editorial to his manifest desire to encour-
age new authors . . he offered $250 a stqry for every original manuscript by a
hitherto unpublished author that he found suitable for his journal. I bought that
magazine and stole home to my typewriter.
here night be the answer to ny quandary. A thousand men and women all up
the years had found success and affluence in the writing of fiction. That they
could do, so likewise could I. It might take me twenty years, but if I resol-
utely applied myself and held on adamantly no matter what the struggle, I night
even surpass the earnings of dad's mill.
I made a silent vow with myself, saying nothing to ry wife, that no matter
what the vicissitudes I encountered,.or how many rejection slips I piled up, I
would hew to fiction till success came ny way.
Tlie Dattle of Dennington was on.
W
HEREVER I want to realize how long the gorid Tar lasted, I have only to think
of the day in the Greenfield station when I bought that copy of The Poston
Globe and the bitter night in Harbin, Manchuria, when after a 26-day ride over
wintry Siberian wastes I walked past a little Chinese tobacconist’s shop and saw
the headlines on an English newspaper:
IIIHBSHEUSG ACCEPTS ALLIES TERMSl
So much was crowded into those four year si In them I gained back to all that I
had seemingly lost in either the tissue company, or Wilmington, . . and morel
Marion was not long in discovering the oath-bound task to which I had set
myself and.was properly encouraging. Right after night I rushed through with
the printing of The Danner that I might have more tine at home to ~ork at ny
typewriter. Frank never cared how early I put the paper to bed. The earlier
it happened, the better he.liked it. Gradually I put order and method into his
rule-of-thumb composing-room, I printed as cleanr-cut and presentable a Danner
as his equipment permitted. If the papers were printed at four o'clock, I was
hone by four-thirty, with supper eaten by five,, and the click of my machine-
keys starting, to continue far, far into the night.
.1 wrote and I wrote. Dut mostly I revised. All my life I had been writ-
ing. Composition cane fluently. But I had not yet learndd the essentials of
plot. That only came with practice — practice and analysis of the effects to
be created.
One must learn to write by writing — and insofar as composition is con-
cerned, keep always in mind that language is a form.of music; a beautiful style,
no matter how rugged, is only poetic euphony and when the offect is played, the
harmony must come out simply and naturally, and, . . know definitely before a
48
piece of worn is started, exactly what effect you mean to leave in a reader's
mind when you have polished off the final paragraph, then bend every word,
every phrase, every sentence, every plot-step in your narrative toward your
final statement — newspaper stories are always told in the first paragraph,
and preferably in the first sentence, but narrative fiction is always told
in the last paragraph, and preferably in the final sentence.
Of course these two stipulations came through a process of literary evol-
ution. I had a long way to travel before I could write as simply and natur-
ally as people talk in conversation — and so has any fledgling. I frequent-
ly chafed Kinsley on this very point. He was a master of straight news-tell-
ing and writing to the point. But the moment he sat down to his typewriter
to narrate for the forty-seveneth time that story about the Whittier oil well,
he immediately ran berserk in flowery inconsequence. "Just tell me what
happened, Clate," I would appeal to him. He would cross to the stove with a
spill of newsprint he had rolled, fire the enormous calabash, fold his arms
with the gorgeous sleeveholders and black-cambric cuffs, and recount a
straight-forward episode as he tilted and rocked on his toes and his heels.
"Fine," I would advise him, "now sit down at your machine and say the same
thing, just as you've related it to me, without altering a word." But he
never could do it. He had the obsession that a magazine story must be a
piece of "fine writing" . . and the similies and metaphors began to compound
till he was buried under them and he fought his way to victory by cramming
his product into the office stove as trash.
I went at the business of creating a story exactly as I would straight-
line a bit of manufacturing at the mill. Always I determined my plot, my com-
plication, and — if it were that kind of story — my surprise ending, before
I started to write. I dug this method from a trenchant analysis of 0. Henry.
When I had written a dozen amateurish yarns, and they were as consistently re-
turned to m e , X finally invested in an edition of 0. Henry and set myself to
tearing every story of his apart, to study how he got his effects. I even
copied portions of them on my machine, to see how they looked in manuscript.
I went thereafter on the principle that everyone of my stories ought to be so
good tuat the first editor to whose attention it came should be seized with a
fanatical desire to publish it. I did not always hit this mark, but when a
story was returned to m e , I always figured out that something must be basic-
ally wrong with it, or it would not have come back. What was that something?
I set myself to find it. This often meant the complete rewriting of the yarn
between eacn journey out to a magazine.
My stories went out and aeartrendingly came back. I was being dunned
inhumanly to pay something on those bills in Wilmington and Brattleboro. I
once compiled a collection of 175 rejection slips that had come to me before
editors no longer sent me rejection slips. Throughout the winter of 1914 -
1915 I typed away, staving off my creditors, buying new typewriter ribbons
and fresh reams of paper. Finally one noontime in December, 1914, I came
home to lunch. Four months of the most assiduous effort had not sold a story.
But I had shut my emotions to all disappointment, It was a war of attrition
between those editors and myself, and I meant to show them that I could last
longest. "Look under your plate," advised Marion cyptically.
Beneath it was a salmon-colored envelop with the corner-card of The Pop-
ular Magazine, published in New York by Street & Smith. I drew forth the
contents, scarcely daring to breathe. A cheque dropped to the tablecloth.
The accompanying letter read —
49
We are pleased to accept your story Spirit of the West and to
tender you herewith our cheque for $50 in payment. If you have
any further stories along this order, we would he glad to read
them . .
HAT fifty dollars was the biggest money that I have ever received for a piece
J of fiction in my life, not fer the amount of the payment but for the fact
that I could earn it. Furthermore, it had come in just before Christmas when
otnerwise our Yuletide had promised to be bleak. Marion took twenty dollars
of the money and bought the first suit she had acquired since our marriage. We
purchased a stock of inexpensive knick-knacks for the Holbrooks and went over
to Jacksonville to spend Christmas with the family.
I had not breathed a word of my self-imposed brevet to the Banner staff,
not even to Clate, with whom I was now crony. Not until the ensuing September
did the news leak out as to where all the money was coming from with which I
was settling those Wilmington bills, moving into a better home at 129 Putnam
Street, and acquiring the noisy flivver with which I began to journey around
the country. Bernard Madigan came in from Griswold's News Room one afternoon
just as I was putting the paper to bed.
"Hey!" he bellowed to all and sundry. "Bill — our Bill! — has got a
story in this week's issue of The Popular." And he almost leaped an imposing-
stone in his eagerness to show the magazine to Clate and Ida.
"Good Lord!" cried Kinsley.
"Huh, it's only a newsprint magazine!" sniffed Ida, and she banged the
cover on her linotype metal-pot.
I lifted a form and clacked it on the press-bed . .
ARTHUR Hoffman, editor of Adventure Magazine, bought the second story that
J~ \ sold for cash. The price, I believe, was seventy-five dollars. My first
story had concerned the asinine adventure of a Montana cow-puncher. My second
was a more involved incident concerning this same character. And as the reader
knows, I had never been nearer Montana in my life than father's mill in Y°rk
State. I had secured my salable local color from a former westerner who resid-
ed in Bennington — one Bill Hawkes — with whom I had struck up a newspaper ac-
quaintance.
During that year 1915 I joined the Bennington County Fish & Game Associa-
tion. I became its secretary. Part of the duties of this office required the
blazing of trails over our section of the Green Mountains. As soon as the paper
was published on Saturday I would swing a 40-pound pack on my back and strike
for the woodlands. But one Monday morning, a belated train down from Manches-
ter, at the upper end of the county, did not put me back in Bennington till
early afternoon. On the way up to the house to rid myself of hiking clothes,
I met Earl Darling, neighbor and groceryman. "Hey," he bawled from his wagon,
"you better hustle home and see what your . wife's got for you!" I suppose in
such terms have men been apprised that they are the father of quintriplets.
"What's biting Earl?" I demanded of Marion as I entered the house.
"Look on your desk," my wife advised airily.
My trembling fingers plucked up a square white envelop with the fraught
corner-card of The Saturday Evening Post. I pulled forth the terse letter in-
side with the inimitable scrawl of George Horace Lorimer. Again it was the fact
that I could command such attention that supplied most of my thrill. I was win-
ning, winning! Lorimer had written —
50
We are most favorably impressed by your story Li'l Son of a Gun
and if a payment of $300 will be acceptable, we will have a cheque
drawn to your order for that amount. We would like to cut the
narrative somewhat but our surgery will be painless . .
Three hundred dollars! I sat down limply. It was more money than I had
seen since the break-up of the tissue company. That afternoon I sought out
Frank Howe. "Things are breaking so good for me," I said, "that I wish you'd
let Bernie do the work on the press. I don’t want to throw up my job, but if
I came into the front office and worked, I'd have more time to write."
"Sold another story?" asked Frank with a grin.
"Yep. Saturday Evening Post."
"The devil you say!" The man nearly swallowed his cigar as he sat there be-
fore the exchange table in a torn vest, penciling an editorial on how he would
conduct the War. It worried him a lot, the War. Or rather, its mismanagement.
"Hot/ much money have you earned since you started this story thing?"
"About fifteen hundred dollars."
Again Howe was jolted. But it was a very fine thing to have a Saturday
Evening Post writer employed on The Banner. Thereafter I wrote my stories at
a front-office desk. By day I idled through Bennington's business section, col-
lecting items, having local characters offer me salient experiences in their
lives for magazine publication. Stories grew on bushes. I was learning my
craft. I plucked them extravagantly, with a growing self-confidence. Never
was a small-town newspaper office so full of atmosphere as that of The Banner.
Week after week went past, each one producing remittances of increasing size.
I was making more money than the men who employed me. Three thousand dollars
I made that first year.
Eventually the day came when Joe Evans, another newsroom proprietor, en-
tered the office with a copy of The Post. "Gee willikens! I see where Pelley's
made a first-class magazine," he said. "Wonder how much dough he pulled down
for this one?"
Ida turned the pages of Li'l Son of a Gun scoffingly.
"Huh, they didn't think enough of him to put his name on the cover!" Once
again she arose and made contemptuous noises with the lid of her metal-pot . .
P^ENNINGTON people were worried sick, what I was doing with all the money I
was making by this success at writing. It would scarcely be exaggerating
to say that committees were almost appointed to wait upon me and give me
counsel about spending it or saving it. My name now began to appear regularly
in the current magazine. One epochal month I recall noting it on the covers of
six different periodicals spread out on the tables in Joe Evans' News Room.
I finally gave up my job on The Banner. I wanted to be free to travel
about, to comb for new material, to write according to my moods. Clate, the
iovnble old rapskallion had taken a personal interest in the progress of my ex-
panding recognition. But he was still struggling with that yarn aboutthe oil
well. "Say," he cried suddenly, shut in with me one night in the cozy back-
office, "I can't figure out why the devil you keep turning out stories of the
wild and wooly west — as if nothing happenedright here in Bennington. Take
this office for instance — the drama that's occurred in it, or had fetched
into it since nine o'clock this morning. Why don't you write up the local color
here at home? "
CHAPTER SEVEN
51
Forthwith he launched into a poignant incident that had filled half a
column in the night's Evening Banner. It struck me with a smash. The man was
right! He went on . .
"There's a book you ought to read called In our Town. It's by William
Allen White of the Emporia Gazette. It's a book of homely sketches of the same
sort of American folks who are passing through The Banner office day after day.
I think my copy is up here in this cabinet." Kinsley arose and rummaged in a
compartment above the exchange table. He pulled a book out and blew off the
dust. "Take that home tonight and read it. Then see what you can do about fit-
ting action-plots to that sort of character-drawing. You'll strike a new note."
I did as he suggested. Page after page of In Our Town moved me to tears.
I knew these people. They were ordinary, two-legged humans — loving, hoping,
laboring, marrying and dying — living their unwept, unhonored, and unsung lives
as nobly as they could, representative Americans who displayed their poignant
heroisms the clock around with never a thought that they were composing the true
saga of our century.
Two weeks later I dropped into Jack Hart's Movie House to see a mother-love
film on the screen. A woman had been widowed and left with six boys. The plot
of the movie had it that all six had turned out to be scalawags — and yet she
carried on. I came from that theater doing some thinking. Why not a story in
which the sons of a widowed mother all turned out to be world-famous successes?
Would it not hold more drama and more wholesome emotion?
I had lately rented a little office across the street from the theater,
which Clate often referred to as the Bennington Short Story Mill. I crossed to
this office and snapped on the lights. At nine o'clock I began a story, about a
woman whose boys were all successes. It was one of those rare narratives that
literally wrote itself.
Once in my boyhood, while we had been living in the Spruce Street house, my
father had been called to Lynn by the illness of his mother. He had taken me
with him. All the rest of my uncles had been similarly summoned, though the old
lady did not die. That scene in her bedroom, however, I had never forgotten.
About her bed were gathered five strapping, full-grown sons — clean, fine men.
On the bed stretched the form of a life-spent old woman. From her wasted loins
these strong men had sprung. They owed their manhood, their virility, their car-
eers to her. The drama of that tableau had seared on my memory.
Now I wrote the story, simply, naturally, unaffectedly — as I felt it.
Mien around midnight I came to read through my pages, I realized I did not have
to alter a comma. With the emotion of it still gripping me, I found an envelop
and stamps. I mailed it to John Siddell «f The American Magazine as I passed the
midnight postoffice. Two days later came a telegram —
COME TO NEW YORK AT ONCE. YOUR MOTHER STORY KNOCKOUT.
WANT TO DISCUSS YOU DOING SERIES FOR US SIMILAR VEIN.I
I went to New York and met John Siddell. I was ushered into the offices of
Bert Boyden first, the managing editor. He was a strong but kindly faced fellow
with a grim chuckle which put me at once at ease. Presently in came a portly,
six-foot Scotchman, whose hair gave the impression of a rumpled toupee. He had
shrewd blue eyes behind rimless spectacles and the most volatile vocabulary in
all my experience, "My ga7«l!" he cried, walking about and waving his arms.
"What a story1 WHAT a story! You're either a genius or had a lucky accident.
How quick can you furnish me five more just like it?"
52
"As fast as you can pay for them. And it wasn't any accident."
"You're good, eh?"
"So I gather from your remarks."
"I'll pay you two hundred and fifty dollars apiece and jump you fifty
dollars a series for every six I take thereafter."
I went back to my hotel and wrote another in similar vein — concerning
plain ordinary folk who came and went each day through the Banner office. Sid
grabbed for it in .equal enthusiasm. Not one in the series did he ever turn back
on me. I never recall getting a rejection slip from The American Magazine while
he remained its editor. But then, that was while Gentiles were running that en-
terprise. Their Mother was published in the September issue of The American and
exhausted the edition on the newsstands. That awoke other New York magazine men.
Arthur Vance of Pictorial Review took a sinall-town series. Karl Harriman of The
Red Book bought twenty-two in a row.
Early in all this success, my wife's foster-father died and there came the
distressing conduct of my flivver at his funeral . .
- f HIS machine had been my first motorcar and I was properly proud at possessing
J it. It was one of the first models that Henry had produced, with a broad
brass band encircling its high box-hood and an ability to emit noises that never
has been equalled by any car since. It had cost me two hundred and forty dollars
and Marion's opinion of it was expressed in the truism that it did not rup, it
pounced. It started by hand-cranking in front, made a series of pounces, and
called upon the universe to note that it was in. action. After I got it safely
from the garage, it had a discomfitting way of chugging smoothly down the as-
phalt until a timorous old lady or a traffic policeman hove in sight. Then it
would deflect in its course and pounce.. Something ailed its magneto, I was lat-
er advised. I had bought it as a second-hand car from a dealer who gave me a
book of instructions, a free tank of gas, and a push, and I learned to run it on
a Bennington backroad, pushing levers and treadles to find out what happened.
Its previous owner had taken it apart, time after time, to learn where its poun-
ces came from. I followed his example, had a lot of parts left over, and its
pouncings were worse still.
I had alternately chugged and pounced about Bennington County in this con-
traption, when it so happened that Father Holbrook passed to his eternal rest
in Greenfield and his body was brought up to Jacksonville, ten miles southeast
of Wilmington, for services and interment. Nothing would dissuade me from driv-
ing "over the mountain" with my little family in that Leaping Lena and bringing
Mother Holbrook back to do her grieving on our premises.
The little village of Jacksonville is bisected north and south by a main
thoroughfare that climbs a precipitous hill. The church where the services were
held at 2:30 o'clock of a summer's afternoon, was down the river road at the
base of this incline. The cemetery where the man's body would be laid away was
emphatically at its top. It was a sign of worldly affluence in those days to
own a "car" and I had to do the honors by the family. I wanted Father Holbrook
to be properly adulated by the presence of such a "car" in his funeral cortege
as he took his last ride from the river-road church, up that steep grade, and
into the quiet graveyard drowsing so peacefully in hot July sunshine. If "Ma"
Holbrook thought anything about it, her silence was a compliment to her driving
dexterity.
Anyhow, the beautiful services were ended, we filed through the front of
the church and took a last view of the beloved deceased. Then the casket was
closed and friends bore it out and put it in the hearse. This vehicle pulled
off a little way and waited for other rigs to fill up and follow.
53
I succeeded in getting Lena cranked — after a series of unhallowed back-
fires — and brought her left running-board flush with the steps. Mother Hol-
brook got in, deeply veiled in weeds. Marion followed, and Ernest, and my
wife's stepsister, Sarah. I slid under the wheel and jerked at the levers.
"Merciful heavens!" breathed Marion. "Must this thing pounce now!"
Evidently the car did not relish the tone in which my wife said it. It
gave a couple of pounces, just to sfcow that it could do it, and most of those
within it grabbed for their hats. It covered the space to the rear of the
hearse in six pounces. There it halted balefully as though biding its time.
"Remember," warned my spouse, "this is a funeral!"
"I'm aware of it," I answered.
"Well, this rattletrap had better do its stuff without any nonsense or
you'll never get me to set foot in it again."
"Think she'll take the grade, Bill?" Ernest queried anxiously.
"Sure," I said largely. "I can run this thing up the side of a barn."
"That's just what I'm afraid of," Marion added grimly. Thus the conversa-
tion while the other rigs filled up. At least it took our minds off the sorrow
of the moment. Presently we started . .
It was a unique procession. Anyone viewing it from the sidewalk, as scores
of neighbors did, might have decided that my flivver was trying to take savage
bites at the glass wagon in front. Mrs. Holbrook did her best to weep, in the
manner popularly expected of widows, but it was a difficult thing to manage when
each new pounce rocked her head on her neck.
"Cripes!" whispered Ernest. "We'd oughta got a horse."
I growled in my chagrin, "It's too late to get a horse!"
"You'd better control this thing," warned my wife, "or you're liable to
bunt the back of that hearse!" The rising crescendo of her voice implied that
the car would push entirely through the hearse and perhaps shove Pa Holbrook
horridly out between the undertaker's legs.
"I've controlled it, so far," I reminded her grimly.
"If you call it control," was her pleasing rejoinder.
By this time we were turning the curve up through the heart of the village.
Straight ahead of us that hill arose in its challenge.
"What'll we do," asked Ernest, "if we happen to get stuck?"
"I know what 1 shall do," Marion declared herself.
"Can't you think of more cheerful conversation?" I begged. "As Marion says,
this happens to be a funeral!"
"It may happen to be a double one if you're not careful!"
We got to the hill and began to go up.
"Don't you think I'd better get out and walk?" Mother Holbrook suggested
timidly. "Or maybe the folks behind would give me a lift."
"Nonsense!" snapped her daughter. "I guess you don't have to beg a ride at
your own husband's funeral." She said it so that we envisioned the Widow stand-
ing on a street corner and jerking- her thumb in the direction of the cemetery.
"Something ails this carl" was Ernest's sudden comment.
"You mean," said his sister, "something ails all of us to ride in such a
car."
"I bet the magneto's wound wrong!"
"Suppose we wait till this funeral's over," I retorted, "before we discuss
magnetos, , or we may have a second funeral before we've finished with the first."
The grade had now become so precipitous that a shift of gears was necessary.
And shifting gears on one of those early model Fords was something of a rite. I
first raced the engine. Then I stomped dcrwn on the proper treadle and shut both
eyes tight. With a noise like the Shredded Wheat factory going over Niagara Falls
54
we were suddenly running in "low" . . very low. The hearse was as suddenly
gaining away from us.
"0 dear!" cried Sarah. "Why does this funeral, have to be so terribly
disconnected?"
"It's this car," said Ernest sagely.
"It's what's driving this car," he was corrected tartly.
"Children! Children!" soothed Mother Holbrook. She said it in her best
little-birdies-in-a-nest-should-always-agree manner. But the little birdies
present were not in a nest. They were in an early model Ford and the magneto
was wound wrong, or so everybody said. It made a lot of difference.
"Speed this thing up!" I was next commanded.
"I am speeding it up," I retorted, " — as fast as it will go in low
without losing the engine and all the spare parts."
"Run it quieter!" bawled Ernest in my ear. "The horses just behind us
are trying to turn into Cross Street and the cemetery isn't that way at all."
"I am running it quiet — as quiet as it'll work in low."
"Then your muffler must be busted. You'd just oughta hear the funny
noises that are coming from behind."
"Huh," declared my wife, "there's funny noises coming from everywhere."
"Including the occupants of this car," I was goaded to respond.
The car was shaking like a boiler-works with palsy. But we were moving
up the grade. From time to time I wondered whether those Jacksonville folks
were coming out on front verandas to see the passing of Fred Holbrook's cort-
ege or to learn what variety of mechanical accident was continuing to happen
all the way up Hill Street.
We had crawled up about the third of the distance when my secret fears
were realized. The roarings, the coughings, and the pouncings were not due to
the magento. They were due to the gas-feed. Those early Fords had a gravity
fuel flow. If one of them became tilted at too high an angle, the suddenly
starved carburator went abruptly on strike. A suddenly starved carburator was
going on strike in this grisly situation. With a couple of coughs and a last
asthmatic wheeze, that flivver stopped dead — as dead as Pa Holbrook. And
yet there was a difference. Pa Holbrook made no move to start rolling down
the hill.
"PUT ON YOUR BRAKES!" shrieked Marion. Her frenzied backward glance had
disclosed two horses immediately behind, pulling the rig apart in order to
travel in opposite directions. The flivver, it seemed, was due to go between
them.
I whammed my feet on all the treadles in sight and gave a tug on the
safety brake that nearly wrenched my shoulder. It was dramatically quiet all
the length of Hill street. The flivver had stopped. So too had that cortege,
at least the part behind us.
"Gh-hi" wailed Mother Holbrook. "We're losing the hearse again."
"Yes," said her daughter scathingly. "It would be an excellent idea to
tie this procession together with a rope, like the mountain climbers do in
Swiss Alps."
Ernest said, anent the hearse, "Hadn't I better run ahead and stop it?"
"No," he was ordered, "we're making plenty exhibition of,ourselves in
this village without you playing the role of motorcycle escort without the
motorcycle."
"Why doesn't the undertaker stop? He'd oughta see we're no longer behind
him."
"He's probably too disgusted to stop."
"I daresay he won't go any further than the buryground," my mother-in-law
suggested.
55
Marion said, "He could take a joyride all over the county and still be
at the cemetery by the time we get there."
"Or put the hearse up overnight," said Sarah, "and finish the rest of
this funeral tomorrow."
"Well," my lady addressed me, "you've got us into this fix, now how are
you going to get us out?"
I said, "If we could get the teams just behind us to back up, I could
swing the car across the road so that the gas will fill the carburator again."
"Sure!" agreed Ernest. "You can dc what we did on Woodford Mountain Sun-
day, . . back up in reverse."
"Wonderful!" cried Marion. "Now we do tricks!"
Sarah was startled. "Whoever heard of the mourners in a funeral proces-
sion following the hearse in a rig that moved backwards?"
"Sit tight," she was told, "and you'll learn a whole lot about funeral
processions by the time you're finished with this one."
If anyone in that car, or even in the cortege, had any ideas about mourn-
ing in the approved and conventional manner, they were crowded out of mind by
the necessity for unsnarling that one-car traffic jam on Jacksonville hill.
Ernest alignted by the simple expedient of thrusting his long legs over his
side of the backseat and shoving the rest of himself down after them. He
knocked off his straw hat in this maneuver, and stepped on it* It collapsed
with a sickening crunch. When Ernest put one of his feet onto such a thing as
a new straw hat, that hat was ruined and no argument about it. But he backed
the horses on the rig behind us and gave me space in which to swing an arc. I
eased off my brakes and swung that arc. It was a breath-taking experience for
my backseat passengers, because the rear wheels went into the righthand gutter
and I nearly flattened out a paperhanger's mailbox. But the gas flowed again
on something like a level and Ernest cranked the engine. Again and again he
cranked it . .
"Something MUST ail your magneto!" he straightened to tell me.
"Yes, yes," agreed Marion, "we've heard all about that magneto. But let's
not take it apart and fix it on this hill. Let's finish this funeral."
Ernest jammed his crushed straw hat on his head — no one knew why — and
continued to crank. At last, when he was about ready to crawl into the same
box with Pa Holbrook, we got sudden explosions and had a live car.
"Now where do we go?" my wife demanded. She said it as though I might
desert the whole funeral and take the mourners with me.
"You could coast down the hill beside the procession," Ernest suggested,
"then swing around and get a flying start. If you got enough momentum it might
take you to the top."
"I gather," said his sister, "that you're crazy for stunts. We dart
hither and yon while this whole procession watches us."
"I think we'd better walk the rest of the way," said Mother Holbrook kindly.
"We gotta get this crate outta the road or this whole procession's gonna
walk," her son protested.
"I've got a better idea," I said. "I think I can zigzag up, go from side
to side, before the gas has time to stop flowing on the turns."
Judging from the sputterings and pouncings as the engine raced, the flivver
was capricious to try this expedient. Oblivious to the shocked comment that I
knew must be directed at me by all present, I brought the car up out of the
ditch. I cut diagonally across the road — swerving the wheel just in time to
keep off an old lady's lawn and not flatten her pansy tub. I curved the other
way and nearly went up the steps of Charley Waste's store. I jerked around once
more and missed a front fence by a spare two inches.
5f
t
With each of these gyrations I was successfully mounting higher. But
behind me that cortege watched in stupefaction. Had the corpse's son-in-law
gone raving crazy? That flivver was dexterously cutting figure eights and
gradually lessening its distance to the hearse. In a manner of speaking it
was an unusual funeral. I believe that the first five or six steps that m y
mother-in-law essayed upon alighting from that vehicle — or rather, failed
to essay — had nothing to do with her prostration as a widow.
We got Father Holbrook out of the hearse and subsequently piled a lot of
real estate and flowers on him. We left him with the weight of these and it
speaks well for my mother-in-law's good sportsmanship that she returned to my
car and graciously assented to be ridden to Bennington. If my wife spoke at
all on that return trip, it was to acquaint me with the fact that the next
time we had a funeral in our family, we either attended in a horse-drawn con-
veyance or bought a better car. She was humiliated all out of proportion to
her fortitude to bear it, and I daresay she was right. They would talk about
Fred Holbrook's erratic cortege in Jacksonville for a year and a day. The
very idea, cutting hijinks, showing off how expertly I could drive a car, at
such a time. Yet what could be expected from the young rattlehead who had
married Hattie Holbrook's girl, tried to run a yellow journal in Wilmington,
and lost Martin Brown "his hundreds of thousands"? . .
The only one disposed to laugh at what had happened was Mother Holbrook
herself. She had recognized my unwitting predicament amd been properly sym-
pathetic.
The day after that same flivver had run over me when I tried to crank it
in gear, and knocked most of my front teeth out, I bought a new car . .
CHAPTER EIGHT
r * t . JOHNSBURY is a snug' little town up in the northeast quarter of Vermont,
flanked on the east by the Passumpsic River. On the banks of this river
the community has grown. Two main streets had developed in consequence:
one followed the river down close to its banks, the other ran from north to
south at the top of the western hill. Connecting these two was a precipitous
grade. Halfway up this grade on the left stood a huge barnlike structure
painted virulent red, with a newspaper's sign hung high on its front. In this
building, up to 1916, the Weekly Caledonian had enjoyed a career since 1832.
In 1916 a man named Bigelow got Theodore N. Vail, the big telephone man, to
back him, bought The Caledonian, made it a morning daily, and lost paper and
money. Clate Kindley said to me one night in The Banner office, "Too bad to
see that sheet shut up. Why don't you go up there and buy it, Pelley? I would
myself, if I were ten years younger."
One night subsequently, after a week's absence, I walked into my home.
"I've bought the bankrupt Caledonian," I reported to Marion.
Her mouth acquired a grimness. She said, "Having made a fizzle of two
papers already, you'd toss our good story money away on a third?"
"I'm not going to toss good story money anywhere. I'm going to MAKE money
just to prove that I can do it."
"You don't have to prove anything. Stick to your writing and let's make
us a bank account."
"But," I remonstrated, "pegging at a typewriter week after week is boring
me stiff. I want to be in the swim of doing something. I want a problem to
tackle and solve. This newspaper project gives me that problem. I'm going to
revive it as an evening newspaper —
"The Caledonian or the problem?"
57
"I want the experience of running a daily of my own."
"And after you've got it, and it's running nicely?"
"When that moment arrives, I'll probably walk out and leave it flat."
"Yes, I daresay you will."
I went back to St. Johnsbury. Having acquired lawful access to premises
and equipment, I fired up a cold furnace, hired a couple of printers, and set
about giving the northeastern quarter of Vermont a paper that I considered a
paper. Inside the barnlike structure I had found a great spread of floor-
space that was the front office, and a second great spread of floor-space that
was the composing-room. Imposing-stones, typeracks, and one lone and rickety
linotype made a forlorn attempt to fill this acreage. Downstairs was a Comet
Duplex press, not unlike the press of my experience on The Banner, As soon
as possible I meant to renovate and reequip the plant. It was the territory
and the clientele that I had purchased.
Bigelow, I reasoned, had gone bankrupt because he had made The Caledonian
a morning instead of an evening daily. Folks in New England's towns and small
cities have no time in their mornings to read a newspaper. Their newspaper
reading is done in the evening, sitting beside oil lamps with their shoes re-
moved and their toe-joints creaking comfortably. By such time, a morning news-
paper is already ancient history. I proceeded to print a six to eight page
evening paper, concentrating on local news more than foreign, and developing
reader interest by the writing of home town features.
My leading feature each night on my editorial page was a series of pert
paragraphs after the motif of Abe Martin — exactly twelve to the feature —
concerning the homely incidents that had transpired beneath my observation
during each intervening day. I named this feature Life's Dreary Path . .
But life's path for me in those months was anything but dreary. It was
conceded by my brother publishers in jig time that I had resuscitated The
Caledonian successfully. But I had done more. As the winter went on toward
1917 I had built up one of the most profitable newspaper properties, consid-
ering my investment, that existed in New England. Ten thousand dollars a
year it was making me within a period of months.I might have struck a stale-
mate on The Chicopee Journal and made a fizzle of The Deerfield Valley Times.
But The St. Johnsbury Evening Caleaonian retrieved both episodes.
And right here I want to say something about the daily newspaper business
that may sound bombastic or not, according as one looks at it: A man who can
pull a bankrupt newspaper out of its debris and conduct it successfully in a
New England town, whether it's myself or anybody, can run most anything suc-
cessfully that requires executive management — and I am not excepting the
United States of America as a nation.
People get a strange complex about newspaper publishing, just as they get
an equally strange complex about politicians. The average man does not think
that newspaper publishing is really a business.God knows what he thinks it
is, but most people react as though it were some sort of pastime. On the other
hand, when it comes to the donduct of the federal affairs, most people accept
as a foregone conclusion that the only persons competent to run them are pro-
fessional politicians. I suppose they figure that professional politicians
have the greater experience in manipulating public office, that public office
is a business in itself and the professional politicians are the experts.
Well, in a way, they are experts. They are experts in bulldozing and hood-
winking the public, in getting their hands into the public till without being
caught, in running the state or nation on the principle, "It isn't what you
know that counts, but what you get away with." On the other hand, consider the
editor and publisher. He has to be the executive par excellence or his paper
58
goes under. He has to know how to balance his budget and keep it balanced
from week to week or he does not have any budget, or any business either.
Which means that he has to know the hardest rudiments of finance. He has to
be successful as a public tax collector, for that is what he does from his ad-
vertisers and subscribers around the clock. Moreover, he has to do it in such
a way that they like it, and come back for more. Which means that he has to
be a diplomat, or irate citizens wreck his project with clubs. He has to know
men, and how to get work out of them, to work to a dead-line and no excuses.
But more than all else, he has to know political life in all its phases even
better than the politicians in order to keep track of them and promptly expose
them if their behavior becomes too flagrant. I avow that the United States
of America would know a well-nigh perfect administration if it could induct
just one political ticket into office made up entirely of practical newspaper-
men. Abstractly speaking, newspapermen have to know more than all other class-
es of citizens in order to report on them intelligently. Integrity in public
office in a country like ours relies solely on the acumen and critical analysis
of the men who direct our newspapers. They are the eternal watch-dogs on af-
fairs of state, and I claim that being competent as watch-dogs, they are doub-
ly competent as fillers of the offices over which they keep vigilance as a
matter of business. And yet if some political pinhead, who has never yet made
a success of his own affairs, can only lick enough boots, and show himself
sufficiently subservient to behind-the-scenes interests to merit their lavish
praise of him to the public — so that he commands enough journalistic lime-
light to be thought a great man — if some such political pinhead, I say, is
promoted to conduct the nation's affairs in opposition to some hardheaded
newspaper publisher who is practically the czar of a little world of his own
from decade to decade, the public will think that the pinhead is the more logi-
cal man for the office. Life is funny, funny.
-r HROUGH all this petty journalistic stramash, the great war in Europe had
J been going on, gradually settling into a gory stalemate. I still wrote
stories for the ©ational magazines, but no acceptance of a new story now gave
me one-half the kick that I received from producing a snappy, profitable even-
ing daily, playing around the forms myself, locking myself into the shop after
hours and setting my own editorial features directly on the linotype. During
that first six months I doubled the circulation, I moved the plant and duplex
from the barnlike structure on Central Avenue hill into tight, compact quar-
ters under Randall & Whitcomb's News Room. I bought two new Intertypes and
redressed the paper in the matter of typography. In addition to this office
rejuvenation, I bargained for one of the best homes available in the town's
residential section, I traded my Saxon Six for the latest and most expensive
model of a Hudson Super-Six.
Life was zestful for me indeed, in those Green Mountain months. Society
was still reasonably sane, although propaganda to get the United States into
the conflict was being mischievously promoted by enemy agents ensconced behind
the scenes in Washington and elsewhere. The fates, however, would not leave
me in peace. They had no intention of letting me bog down and marry a small-
town evening newspaper. One night two men walked into my composing-room.
"No one is allowed out here," I said brusquely. "Go into the front office,
please, and wait till I've put this paper to bed. Then I'll be with you."
They retreated ruefully and I locked my final pages . .
I had been brusque because one of the intruders was a Brattleboro insurance
man. Evidently his companion was a solicitor or adjustor. I was in no mood
that afternoon to consider more insurance. This second man was a portly indlv-
59
idual although of unassuming mien, in his early fifties, affable of manner,
and by no means offended at having been reprimanded for composing-room tres-
passing. He returned to the front office, removed an ulster overcoat, picked
up a magazine and settled himself to read. In due time the Duplex was grind-
ing, my hands were washed, and I came into the front office rolling down my
sleeves. Daniels, the insurance man, introduced his friend,
"Pelley," said he, "meet Bishop Fred B. Fisher of the Methodist Episcopal
Church."
I shook hands with the bishop. He did not look like a bishop, not the
kind that came to my father's parsonage in my younger years. Fred B. Fisher,
bishop or not, affected no Prince Albert coat, patriarchal beard, or sancti-
monious manner. He looked rather, the prosperous American businessman in gray
sack suit and rolled starched collar. Styles in Methodist bishops had changed,
it seemed, while I had been attaining to my majority . .
His first words, however, sent my world into a tail-spin. "I've come up
from New York to see you," he announced, "to find out if I can persuade you to
take a trip around the world?"
For a moment I regarded him as though he were a lunatic. Why should any-
one, especially a Methodist bishop, offer me a trip around the world unless
the deal held fish-hooks?
"You're aware,I hope," my caller went on, "of the work of the Methodist
Centennary. I'm up here representing Dr. Earl S. Taylor of the Centennary
Movement. Dr. Taylor was coming through Colorado recently on a train when he
happened to buy an American Magazine containing one of your stories. It af-
fected him so powerfully that he exclaimed, 'This fellow Pelley is exactly the
chap we should send out into the foreign missionary field on our Centennary
survey. If he can write of Oriental conditions as movingly as he's written
here about life in Vermont, we'll be doing ourselves a service by giving him
the trip and paying his expenses.' So," continued Fisher, "that accounts for
my being here."
"B-But," I faltered, "I c-can't afford to t-take a trip around the world."
"No one's asking you to spend your own money. In fact, we'd be prepared
to furnish your transportation with, say, five thousand dollars to compensate
for your time."
I said, "Where's this money coming from?"
Fisher then outlined the generosity of the Rockefeller Foundation in the
matter of the Centennary.
My next question was, "Where must I go?"
"You should sail from San Francisco in a month or six weeks. You should
go first to Japan by way of Honolulu. After making a survey of foreign mis-
sions in Japan you ought to go up through Korea to North China, then around to
India. From India you would return home by way of the Holy Land and Egypt.
All the compensation we would ask of you would be that you write honestly,
interestingly, and graphically of foreign missions as you find them, of the
lives of the missionaries, and just what you think of the work they're accom-
plishing. The trip will take a year."
"And what are the fish-hooks?"
"My dear chap, there are no fish-hooks!"
"There must be fish-hooks. Nobody puts five grand on the line for a fel-
low like me to go off on a pleasure trip. Because that's what it'd be. The
writing to me means nothing. Suppose I find missions to be a wet smack?"
Fisher was the sort of bishop to whom I could talk in newspaper jargon.
"If you find foreign missions are just a . . wet smack, write home and
say so. If you find that they're doing a goodly work, and deserve to be sup-
60
ported, write home and say that also. Such stories must he printed exclus-
ively, however, in our Methodist publications."
I was somewhat flaccid as the essence of this development got home to me.
I glanced around my perfectly appointed newspaper office, so new, so precocious-
ly calling for all that I had to give it. How could I absent myself for a
wnole year and leave it? And yet, a world trip under such conditions, and for
such awards! . .
"Could I take Mrs. Pelley with me?"
"I think," said Fisher, "the idea would be excellent."
"Give me until tomorrow noon to return you your answer. There's a fish-
hook in it somewhere. There must be a fish-hook!"
Daniels assured me, however, that all of it was bonafide. At ten o'clock
that night I called Marion down in Bennington. Our conversation, I believe,
ran something like this —
"Hello, old dear. How's everything down there?"
"Pretty good," she answered. "I'm still packing but expect to get the
goods away Friday."
"Couldn't you put them in Walbridge's Warehouse for awhile?"
"Now what?"
"Oh, not much. It just occurred to me that perchance you'd like to go
with me on a trip around the world."
Silence for a moment. Then a listless voice: "I think it would be real
nice. WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN DRINKING?"
"I haven't been drinking anything. I've just had an offer."
"Who's made you an. offer of a trip around the world?" The lady's voice
dropped lower and lower. Of all the Roman Candle fireworks that I had ever
set off to disturb her peace of mind, this was the worst . .
"Dr, Taylor, of the Methodist Centennary."
"What's the Methodist Centennary?"
"Hanged if I know. But one of their bishops has just been up here and
offered me expenses and five thousand dollars to go out to Japan, China, and
India, and come home by way of Palestine. I'm to snoop around foreign missions,
something like that. We'd be gone a year."
"We!"
"For the love of Mike, don't you want to go along?"
"Of course, of course. But however could I? What about mother? What
about Adelaide? What about The Caledonian?"
"Yes, what about them? I can make arrangements for the paper, if your
mother and the baby can be arranged for, while we're gone."
"Well, I'd have to think it over. All of it sounds pretty crazy to me."
"Yes, it sounds pretty crazy-to me, too, but we never had a honeymoon.
We'll take one now, . . on the Methodist Church."
Fisher came in next morning and I said I would go.
"Take a month and get your affairs in order," he suggested. "When you're
all set, come down to New York and we'll see to your passports, the expense
account, and the compensation."
That night The Caledonian carried the editorial bombshell that its prop-
rietor was due to hie himself soon to very distant parts. The paper was
printed and exchanged with brother editors about the State. They began to
make cutting remarks about the convenience of editing a local news sheet
while sashaying about Japan, China, India, and parts of Patagonia. How did
this fellow Pelley get away with it? Just the moment that he seemed nicely
labeled and pigeon-holed, he broke out afresh in new programs cf sensations.
But a new saga in my experience was about to be written. I had business
across the world that should one day serve me excellently . .
61
Came the day and the hour when I glanced about my perfectly appointed
little newspaper plant for the last time, shook hands in farewell with my
faithful employes, went out into my Hudson with my wife, my child, my mother,
and my mother-in-law loaded aboard amid generous assortments of bags and queer
parcels. Not that I was taking all of these with me. But I had found that
my sailing date permitted us to cross America by motor car. Mother Holbrook
and Adelaide would wait in Los Angeles until our return. My own little mother
went along for the ride, to come back by train to her home in Springfield.
I still had a half-interest in my newspaper, money in the bank, forty
thousand dollar's worth of paid-up insurance on my life, full expenses for
the trip, five thousand dollars in Methodist Church drafts handed me in New
York, and in addition to all of these, ten thousand dollars practically in
currency that I had received that morning from the two local men who were go-
ing to conduct the paper until my return.
Not so bad for a fellow who had married five years before with but seven
dollars in his pocket. Ho huml . .
D
URING my first day at sea a strange lassitude, almost coma-like, came
|over me. I was twenty-seven years old and ten years out of high
school. In those ten years I had been going at such break-neck speed
that I had scarcely time to take stock of myself, to ask myself truly what
life was all about. I had made and lost one fortune and was well on my way
toward making another. This time, however, I had in addition a national pres-
tige that I had won by fair struggle. Now I had eighteen days for a breath-
ing spell, to idle and to think. It wasn't the time that mattered, it was
the Situation.
Eighteen days of sitting on deck drowsily watching the horizons, of fol-
lowing the shoals of flying fishes that broke from the white caps like bevies
of dragon flies till the sprightly wavelets took them again, of sending dream
cargoes off on the furl of the stack-smoke, of reminiscing, perhaps of intro-
specting, of conjecturing whether, if I had married Mabel, I would still be
aboard that steamer in those hours, on my way to a part of the world that had
only existed for me till then in necromantic travelogue. Yes, mind, spirit,
and even physical body fell into a comatose condition on that trip . .
"You're not sociable, Marion would upbraid me, as she came down-deck and
found me browsing among the unread pages of a book in my steamer-chair.
"I don't want to be sociable."
"You're on a reporting trip, getting five thousand dollars for doing it.
You ought to be mingling among the passengers, posting yourself on what's
ahead, making friendships that may mean something to you after this trip's
over."
"You do the mingling. After I’m rested, anything can happen."
"It must be your liver."
"No, my liver’s all right."
"Your complexion looks terrible. You're smoking too much." Having del-
ivered herself of this wifely homily, familiar, I understand, to thousands of
benedicts — she would trip back blithely to a Hindu woman suffragist who was
aboard, who doubtless pointed out the terrible tattooes on her forehead as an
example of what American womanhood might also arrive at, if it failed to van-
quish the tyrant, Man.
But it was not my liver. It was not my smoking. A tragic corner was ap-
proaching in my life, although how could I then know it? The Orient was grad-
62
ually looming before me with its stark and grisly war, the revelations that
come from observing one's homeland from ten thousand miles distant. I shall
always tnink of that outward trip to Japan as a mounting toward a summit al-
ready in sight. I was to reach that summit soon and start down the other side.
As I gradually went down, I was to part from Marion and the life chapter close
between us. Other things were to happen also . .
Among the items to be learned was the mystical tenet that the fortunes of
life are delivered to us in cycles. Uniformly those cycles consist of nine
years. This strange fact of fate is as old as Pythagoras. Nine years prior to
this Far Eastern trip I had been at the peak of my adolescent fortunes in the
factory with father. In those nine years I had t,one down into penury, assumed
domestic responsibilities, buried a baby, owned two newspapers and lost one of
them, replenished my fortunes, climbed up again, made my name known among the
magazine fraternity from coast to coast, until now at twenty-seven the Hocke-
feller Foundation was practically paying my expenses to the Orient. Presently
I was to pass the apex of the nine years and start down around a new cycle; rt
would be precisely another nine years before I discovered myself again at an
apex.
How true this cycle is, my reader shall see. I have two more such cycles
to record, to bring my story to the moment. But it does not apply to me alone.
It is a sort of cosmic mystery applicable to anybody. Look back in your own
life, reader, and see if I do not write with approximate correctness. The high-
lights of prosperity in your life have flashed like the swing of a flying-
field beacon nine years apart.
So I idled away my eighteen days on shipboard. Toward the last of the trip
I began to sense a quickening of interest in the passenger-life about me, to
give attention to the oriental errands of my fellows, to grasp the poignant
anticipation flavoring the ending of a long sea journey, particularly in a land
where the country I had always known was merely a life that had somehow been
dreamed. One opal afternoon, the boy-child of a young missionary chatting be-
side me sought out his parent in infantile excitement. "Japan!" he cried.
"We can see it ahead, high up in the sky!"
What could he mean, high up in the sky? We crowded around to the port side
of the ship . . Suddenly, magnificently, I beheld a snow-white cone that
seemed exotic cloud. "Fujiyama!" explained the Japan-wise among us,
America, Los Angeles where Adelaide and Mother Holbrook stayed, Vermont,
my Evening Caledonian office, Bennington, Wilmington, Chicopee, the Fulton fac-
tory, the East Templeton parsonage . . all these were far far away in another
life when our doughty little vessel creamed slowly up Tokio Bay toward Yoko-
hama that nineteenth afternoon. The only link that bound me to all that I had
ever been, was the girl I had married that slushy night in Springfield, sur-
rounded now by a bevy of women friends near the prow of the ship, watching the
first valiant sampans tacking across our course. I saw that approach to Japan
tnrough the eye of the novelist . .
Silver sunshine on cobalt water. Gulls and sampans. A low-lying beach
of chalky whiteness flowing past us for an hour on the north as our vessel
gradually entered Tokio Bay. The snow white cone of Fujiyama fading from the
sky. Curdles of black industrial smoke arising above the outlines of incon-
gruous skyscrapers. Then a veer toward the north as land showed straight
ahead. The vessels of a hundred nations passing or at anchorage. Yokohama's
bluffs lifting green behind the city on the left. And always the sampans worm-
in£
. hither and yon, sometimes propelled by leg o' mutton sails, sometimes wor-
ried forward by naked brown boatmen plying at rudder oars. Then gradually the
rising of the miles of docks from brackish yellow water. Everywhere now the
fried-egg flag of Japan — the kerchief of yellow with its orange-pink yoke.
After picking up our pilot, a surly old Japanese officer had put me
through a rigorous questionaire in the cabin of the ship as we anchored at
quarantine. What was I doing in Japan? Who had sent me out there? What
places did I propose to visit? If I were correspondent of New York magazines,
what magazines? It was war time in Japan and such inquiries were relevant.
But our passports were in order. The Tenyu Maru was eased up to her dock and
we were released, to go ashore in sunset.
But it had come to me with a sense of shock, I was no longer living ufider
the American flag. I was suddenly a "foreigner" . . I was in the Japan of
story and folklore, of missionary talks in my father's church, of heathe/i~
ish "darkness" and yellow journal castigation. The Orient was before mp ™
oyster to be opened. The ship's doctor came and stood beside me as I w sd
the first passengers leaving the ship.
"It's my forty-fourth trip," he told me. "I'd give a month's salajh
be able to see Japan through your eyes, as you're seeing it at this mome
"Come along!" urged Marion. "You've got a job to do here. You car
forever be mooning around."
That was Marion. Practical. I must approach Nippon as a roster of mas-
terpieces to be written, from eight until twelve, from one until five.
We went down the gang-plank and into necromancy . .
-
r
' HE DOCK was crowded with Japanese businessmen in bluish-grey kimonos, most
J of therm .wearing American straw hats and carrying sunshades or umbrellas.
Here and there was a figure in the civilian garb of the country we had left
six thousand miles eastward. No sooner had we set foot upon the planking of
the pier than a tall, elderly gentleman resembling a bespectacled college pro-
fessor, stepped up and accosted us.
"I take it you're the Pelleys. I'm Doctor Berry of Aoyama Compound. Bish-
op Fisher advised me of your arrival by this boat. So I came down to welcome
you and see that you get hotel accomodations. Our Compound is in Tokio."
It was highly acceptable to have such a friend meet us and induct us into
this quaint foreign land. We came from the dock-shed after custom's examina-
tion — in which I had two boxes of excellent cigars confiscated as contra-
band/. — into a semi-circular yard of riksha men all yowling for business,
their grostesque two-wheeled carriages backed against the fence. We walked
along The Bund with Dr. Berry, to get our first impressions of the country
afoot and stretch our cramped legs. At the end of the Bund to the south was
the famous Grand Hotel, since destroyed in the Japan earthquake of 1923.
Yokohama became to me a weird mixture of modern skyscrapers surrounded
by streets of little wood-and-paper houses all open to the sidewalks, with the
street's traveled surfaces covered with pulverized traprock. On this traprock
the riksha wheels crunched musically. The roofs of all the wood-and-paper
houses were grotesque with overloads of tiles, red or gray tiles, to minimize
the fire risk, we learned later. When a fire once starts in a city made of
paper, that city promptly burns! . .
As we walked along The Bund — like a nondescript horde of released refu-
gees — Japanese boys in flowered kimonos and bare legs, wove in and out on
American bicycles, ringing their handlebar bells with importance. Gradually
we became accustomed to the scuffing of the geta, or wooden sandals, of the na-
tive population traveling with us afoot. And crowding about us, making a bower
out of the nation over the roofs of red or grey tiles, were the masts of eucal-
yptus trees, the soft fronds of peppers, the hedges of boxwood, the banks of
shrubbery and scentless flowers in which Japan abounds.
The Grand Hotel was the occidental hostelry of Yokohama, a great rambling
structure painted Iowa-barn red. Its principle feature was its massive veranda,
64
two hundred feet long and thirty feet deep, opening on the Bay. Here we en-
countered former friends of shipboard. But the sea ties were loosening. Peo-
ple had their business to attend to, and we were ignored. We secured accomo-
dations and went abovestairs to spacious corridors and airy chambers behind
shuttered doors, with delightful sea breezes wafting the curtains and the in-
imitable smell of scoria reaching us to surfeit, not an offensive odor but an
exotic fragrance compounded of volcanic ash and oil. No other country in the
world has the odor of Japan. Later I went down to the white tiled barbershop
in the basement. Twenty feet from me, lying face upward, was a copy of The
Popular Magazine from distant New York. Believe it or not, the name PELLEY was
plainly visible to me from the roster of writers on the cover . .
That night we took kurumas — as the riksha is known in Japan — and were
trotted through the streets. Our vehicles wove in and out through mystic thor-
oughfares, missing the roar of traffic that is the pith and crux of western
metropolism, crossed through flowered parks where the paper lanterns on the
shafts of other kurumas were a£ elfin glow worms bobbing along the dark, passed
starlit silhouettes of rakish Shinto temples, came back finally to the Grand
Hotel with the impression strong within me of a paper nation, a country of half-
adults, half-children, tempo pitched in necromantic key. It was a new saasation
for me to turn a corner and come upon a gleaming nude man, clad only in his
loins cloth, putting up wooden shutters before his little shop in anticipation
of rice riots before morning, assisted by a diminutive, wife in a flowered kim-
ono, who "held the lantern" after the fashion of real wives from Greenland’s
Icy Mountain to India's Coral Strand. We fell asleep that first night to mur-
murs of clean oriental breezes wafting through the polished corridors or the
mournful tooting of tugboats and shipping, plying up and down the Bay so close
at hand. We were awakened next morning by outlandish off-key "music" being
sung by a Japanese girl-beggar beneath our north windows . . and a bright sun
presaging our trip up to Tokio.
I was due to have my entire roster of notions about Japan, preconceived
by the help of the Hearst yellow journals, wholesomely revolutionized even with-
in a week of arriving in the kingdom.
I had thought of Japan as a nation of indubitable little brown men, fatal-
istic in their military philosophy, ready to fight any nation that affronted
them, with stoical self-sacrifice, counting no cost too great to preserve their
country's honor. But in the next four weeks I tramped from one end of the coun-
try to the other. I finally left the Flowery Kingdom in the company of a con-
tingent of troops headed for the Siberian Intervention, as I shall presently
narrate. I starved and froze and fought with the Japs in the Armur River cam-
paign against the Bolsheviks and saw the yellow army at its best and its worst.
I came from that ultra-practical contact with a shudder in my bones, not at
what might happen to my own country in the event of a war with eastern Asia,
but at what might happen to our foes the Japanese. To repeat the homely phras-
ing of an utterly disgusted doughboy later in a chill Siberian freight-car:
"If we ever get into a first class brawl with these brownskinned babies, we'd
go through them like a dose of salts. Gimme the Kansas National Guard and I'll
lick the Mikado and all his r e l a t i o n s A n d to that sentiment I had to subscribe
I know that it is a prime rule of warfare never to underestimate your opponent
but still I maintain that if the great United States ever got into a clean-cut
brawl with the present Japanese, it would be just too bad — for the Japanese
soldiery. The resultant conflict would be a slaughter of innocents.
For the Japanese are children — children and naught else. They strut and
they bow and they grin and they scrape. They have their paper houses and their
innocuous industries. They shake a sharp sword and send brilliant diplomats to
the Jewish League of Nations. Most of it is "face" . . we know the term in our
65
western world as "front" . . keeping up with the Joneses. In those first
days and weeks in Japan, however, ny inpressions hoiled down to this poig-
nant recognition: Nippon was a nation that had been left to propagate or
starve on a scoria rock. Nothing would grow on this rock excepting rice for
food and ricestalks for paper, *t was consequently a rice-paper nation and
culture on principle, a nation that had to translate into warlike scowlings
and rattling of swords its inherent poverty to do lasting worldly mischief.
Only as the Japanese frantically and furiously exchanged the products from
cheap labor for the steels and explosives from more favored countries could
they become a world menace. As for the Japanese infantry, I considered it a
joke. Rawboned country boys from the Island interior, scared half to death
at the rifles in their hands, went to Siberia in the company of American
gorillas who cast their guns away when necessary and used their bare fists.
And that was an expedient that no Jap could understand. I saw whole com-
panies of Japanese boys in Siberia who were more affrighted by one lone Yan-
kee's fists than by a battery of Red machineguns. A Jap's bones are so brit-
tle, I was told, due to the amount of starch in his diet, that hitting an
opponent with one's fist means a battered and broken hand. Besides, the Jap
is so small that his blow packs no punch. A full-swing left hook from some
brawney Texan would rout an army corps, figuratively speaking, if the Texan
got close enough to hit a few of them where their chins joined their faces.
A paper nation, a country of children, a land of exquisite culture, in-
fallible courtesy, perfect law and order, inimitable ethics. In all the time
that I spent in Japan, I never saw a street brawl, I saw but one drunken per-
son, I never heard a Japanese baby howling nor, conversely, saw one spanked.
Courtesy, docility, stiff and formal graciousness — these I saw met by west-
ern vulgarity, boorishness, bombast, all-around insolence. I had not been
in the Flowery Kingdom a week before I was ashamed of ny people, ashamed of
what purported to be ny "religion", certainly ashamed of the nature of ny
errand. I had cone out at the expense of a great American church to inves-
tigate end report on the efficacy of foreign missions. vThat need, forsooth,
had the Japs for our religion? I saw them living the ethics of it, day unto
day, amongst and between themselves. I saw then as residents of a country
where all the fine, intersocial precepts which we as Christians flaunt so
brazenly as the end and aim of modern civilization, have become so stabilized
that they are scarcely of coament.
I have not the slightest criticism to offer of missionaries as a caste,
a group of earnest, self-sacrificing people who had exiled themselves from
homeland and friends to remain out here in the Orient's "darkness" and carry
the precepts of the Lowly Galilean unto those who knew Him not. But as for
the missionary gesture as a gesture — I was almost minded to use the cruder
term "racket" — it began to stack up to me as the most nonsensical, insolent,
arrogant program that a distant nation of provincials could connive and in-
flict upon another in the name of Holy Spirit, ^n other words, it was purely
theological. We were trying to "sell" the Japanese not so much on Christian
ethics — because they already possessed and practised those ethics in a way
far advanced from ours — but upon a Theological hypothesis. In other words,
the Vicarious Atonement. And the Japs could comprehend neither one nor the
other. Their minds did not function in complexities of doctrine, all more or
less philosophical, or of they did, they saw nothing to get so excited about
as these missionaries perceived with their many sects and creeds. All that
fuss and pother, I thought, and the raising of millions of money, and the
construction of churches and schools, and traveling to and fro on steamboats,
. . for the proselyting of a Theological Hypothesis that causes plenty of
wrangle among Christians at home! Small wonder that Christianity meant so
little in the Orient! . .
66
Instead of sending missionaries to convert the Japanese, or the Chin-
ese, or the Hindu, to Christian ethics, we should import a few of those ori-
entals to "bring Christian ethics across the seas to us. At least it seemed
so, as I probed deeper and deeper into the activity I had gone out to survey.
I had not been in Japan a fortnight before my conscience began to hurt me —
Dr. Taylor, Bishop Fisher, the others back at 150 Fifth Avenue in New York,
had made this trip possible that I night become a polite propagandist for the
missionary movement. Instead of this, my manifest conclusion was growing more
embarrasing that the kindliest thing which we brainstrapped Christians could
do would be to pack up our vaunted missionary enterprises and let the hoathen
alone. Coning right down to it — and my opinion did not alter when I finally
sailed homeward — the heathen had far more to teach us than we could teach
him in a millenium of Sundays, And I think ny conclusion is the conclusion
of every sane, ■unbiased, logical Nordic who has spent an appreciable tine in
the Orient. There are phases of oriental life that are merciless and vile.
There is ignorance and superstition, poverty and squalor. But have we not
the merciless and vile, the ignorant, the superstitious, among our western
nations also? Vfas ever privation and squalor greater in America than at the
present moment? Unkind trndesnen-residents often referred to such spiritual
projects as I was surveying, as "the missionary racket" . . It was not such,
by any means, not as we know rackets in popular parlance. Long before I came
to quit Japan, I labeled the movement "the missionary blunder". There is all
the difference in the world between a racket and a blunder.
So in the weeks that followed, I journeyed to and fro in Japan, learn-
ing from observation these troublesome items. Out in West Tokio was Aoyana
Compound. The Rev. Edward Iglehart and his wife opened their hospitable hone
to us. In the Compound was an American-Japanese school. It was not unlike
transferring Mt. Hernon in Massachusetts out among the wilderness of tiled
roofs of Tokio. The missionaries "worked out" of Aoyana as out of headquar-
ters. It was from this point that I made my most notable journey of a five-
hundred mile walking trip through the northern Anouri Province with Mission-
ary Iglehart, and down through the center of the Japanese Alps. We bedded
down by night in quaint little paper-hotels, isolated in huge inland cities
of which the tourist never hears, the only white people among millions of
brown men. Invariably an argument preceded registration at these native hos-
tolrios — as to whether or not it was good enough for the Honorable white
Arrivals. Once admitted, we were conducted abovestairs to mat-covered rooms
with partitions of decorated paper. Each of these rooms was measured for
size by the number of its mats. Its only furnishings were an eating taboret
and a futon bed — one quilted mattress to be ■unrolled upon the mats, with a
similar mattress to go on top for covering. In place of sheets, the guest
was served with a cotton kimono.
Night after night I lay beneath the roofs of these quaint little hos-
telries, listening to the katydids or the croakings of huge crows that for-
ever roosted upon the ridgepoles, and reflected upon the necromantic bypath
which my present life was following. About me slept thousands of childlike
Orientals. Measuredly the town watchman would scrape past on his geta, beat-
ing a tattoo with bamboo sticks to apprize night prowlers of his presence. I
thought of St. Johnsbury and my paper, and how Messrs. Stone and Gilpin were
progressing, and if they were careful about the neatness of the headlines and
keeping the blankets clean on the Duplex? I thought of my magazine friends
in New York, the struggle I had known on Jefferson Avenue in Bennington to
get my name before the public. I would fall asleep and dream that I was back
in Chicopee trying to elect a French mayor, back in the factory with father,
strolling over to Mabel's house to summon her forth from her shadowed chnm-
67
ber and walk with her, off under hundreds of miles of cherry trees in exotic
springtime. Afar on the other side of the earth, all of it had happened.
Not to myself "but to quite another person.
And yet as invariably a queer sixth sense would whisper to me that it
was emphatically not upon a pleasure jaunt that I had cone. It had not hap-
pened by a lucky chance that Dr. Taylor had picked up one of my stories in a
transcontinental train. Nor was I out there, moving among these teeming
Asiatics, to give thousands of earnest Christian people broken illusions
about the efficacy of converting the heathen to our Christ. It was bigger
than anything that I had stumbled upon to date. I was out there in prepara-
tion for something — that was itl — getting an education in international
politics while I yet had time, seeing a world of international affairs that
in my previous provincialism I had scarcely dreamed existed. I talked with
Red Cross nurses, with Japanese officials. I gradually became intimate with
missionary problems, with the quandaries of Japanese statesmanship, with Nip-
ponese psychology. My sympathy, understanding, and tolerance for the Japan-
ese people began to grow apace. When I finally came to leave, it was as a
sincere friend of the Japanese people, and I have consistently been so, ever
since. If I criticize Japan, or if I have seemed to do so in printed arti-
cles in past magazines or books, it has not been malicious or biased criti-
cism. It was honest judgment passed upon the shortcomings of a friend.
I shall never permit a war to break out between the United States and
Japan if I have anything to do in future with the government of my country.
I appreciate what Japan is facing as a nation.
VES, I feel that I saw and absorbed Japan from Hakkadodi to Nagasaki, from
■
I temple to brothel, from hell to breakfast. Our country at home had long
since joined the Allies. The great Siberian Intervention had been decided
upon and Japanese regiments were entraining for Vladivostok, To our sudden
consternation, just as we were preparing to move on to Korea t
and into North
China, came a decisive announcement from the Japanese admiralty. All pass-
enger boats were being taken off the northern Pacific and to China to facil-
itate the transport of infantry to Russia* Again the fates took charge of my
destiny.
One rainy night in the Methodist auditorium in Kara.zawa, the Saratoga
of Japan far up in its interior, a tall, military personage intercepted me
ns we started back to the Iglehart camp, "Isn't your name Pelley?"
I agreed that it was.
"I understand you're a writer for The Saturday Evening Post. My name's
Phelps . . George S. Phelps. I'm International YMCA Secretary for the Far
East with headquarters down in Tokio. Your boats have been pulled off the
China passenger service, Bishop Harris tells me, and you're sort of marooned
here till the Intervention ends."
Again I agreod, wondering what was coming.
"I'm here to find out if the 'Y ' could interest you in a
. proposition to
go up to Siberia and do some special work . . acting as a sort of scout for
the establishment of the canteens were going to install all through Russia.
Also, being a trained newspaperman, you're equipped to take on certain espion-
age work that needs to be done . . it'll give you the chance to see Russia
under Bolshevism."
It seemed as though a great segment fell into proper place in those mom-
ents in my life.
I went back to the house and found Marion in a corner of the Iglehart
livingroon with a big bag of knitting.
"I'm getting into the War," I told her simply.
It was all in my brevet.
68
W
E WERE seated at the breakfast table one morning, three or four days Inter,
when Dr. Perry said, "You shouldn’t leave this neighborhood without making
a visit to the top of Mt. Asana. There's a party going up the volcano to-
night and you've been asked to join them."
For a matter of weeks, coming and going out of Knrazawa, I had seen this
majestic peak smouldering on the north — a mile-high pinnacle of scoria with
its perpetually hovering cloud of volcanic ash and smoke. Making the all-night
trip to the summit and gazing down into its lava cauldron was one of the excep-
tional experiences to be encountered in Japan. A man named Vinton, Sumner Vin-
ton, a Baptist missionary up from Burma but visiting in Karazawa on his way to
the States, sat on the steps of the Iglehart bungalow and apprized me about the
trip. He had taken it twice, I presently learned.
"We leave here at eleven o'clock tonight," said Vinton, eyeing the fraught
eminence five to ten miles distant, arising above the foliage in a contour re-
sembling the Rock of Gibraltar in the insurance advertisements. "We go the
first twelve miles by bullock cart — for those who care to ride — to the tree-
line on the mountain. There's a famous hut up there, The Rest House of Sweet
Content. We'll take a nap till two or half-past. Then we employ Japanese
guides and start up the scoria-pile, five miles to the summit. It's one of the
world's most famous views, turning from the pit of the burning crater in the
dark to watch the dawn come in, above the eastern horizon."
So an hour before midnight a group of us set forth, to join the main party
waiting in the village. Marion did not care to attempt such a journey and I was
later glad for her sake that she chose to remain behind. Besides Sumner Vinton
and his long-legged boy William, we were accompanied by one Charles Faus, miss-
ionary business agent visiting Karazawa. It was a lowering night and soon the
rain was spitting. Out of the bullock-cart came a consignment of fish-skin gar-
ments to shed the downpour th^t soon was a torrent. To call them fish-skins is
perhaps incorrect. They were paper mackintoshes treated with a coating of fish-
oil to render them waterproof. These thrust out from around our heads, our
shoulders, our waists, like the petals of huge flowers. Wo were a procession of
human hollyhocks moving along in rain. But there the similarity to any flowers
ended, especially in the matter of olfactory repercussions. "Say," I addressed
Vinton, "we'd better all sit down and clean off our shoes."
"What's the matter with our shoes?"
"We've walked through a mess of dead fish somewhere along this route."
"What makes you think so?"
"Man, what's the matter with your nose?"
"Oh, . . you mean the smell!"
"I'm certainly refusing to call it a fragrance."
"It's your fish-skins, Pelley. You'll soon get used to them."
I halted in my tracks. "You mean to t-tell me . . I'm wearing this un-
speakable stench as a . . raincoat!"
"Man," his voice trailed back, "you're a Peregrinating Stink. We're all
Peregrinating Stinks. But if you don't want to be soaked to the skin, you'd
better put us out of mind and keep on hoofing it till we leave this rain be-
hind us."
On and on we strode, through the rain splashed night, the clack of the
bullock-cart sounding in our rear. Over endless traprock roads we made our
way, through muck, across limitless acres of mulberry and corn. Our little
brown guide, clad in an enormous umbrella hat, a blouse, and a loins cloth, led
the way before us with his bobbing paper-lantern. And ever and anon as the
time went past midnight, the ninbus above Asama grew brighter and more awesome.
Moments afterward, an equally sullen rumbling reached us. "The volcano in minor
action," said Sumner. "Thank God the rain's ending . . now we can discard these
awful dead-fish garments."
69
He was a companionable sort of person, Vinton, about fifty years old.
He was stocky as to build, with iron-gray hair and nournful dark eyes behind
gold-rimmed spectacles. He had been born in Burma of nissionary parents. He
was regaling ne with stories of his boyhood in India as we left the flat coun-
try and mounted up the grade. Dozens of natives had joined in, as we passed
through snail villages adjacent to the mountain. Many of then were women.
We broke through the lowhung ceiling of cloud and above us the moonlit
heavens were clearing. Between one and two o'clock loomed The Rest House
ahead of us. It was a blackened, straw-thatched hut on the scoria's lowest
edge. In it an aged Japanese nan and his wife scraped a living selling straw
sandals and red paper amulets to those who were presently to ascend the danger-
ous upper regions. In their hut were twin platforms, mat-covered. We stum-
bled in gratefully out of night chill, dried our soaked garments at the large
brazier in the center of the room, and laid down presently to sleep as we could.
The long-legged Vinton boy was all over the place, however. On the trip
to the Rest House he had leaped hither and yon like a.sporting dog, covering
thrico the distance that the course represented. Now he was eager to get going
afresh. Above our heads the sullen flashings and rumblings were close. We
bought several pairs of sandals, to strap over our shoes and prevent them from
being slit to ribbons in the ash, hung the excess pairs about our shoulders by
their thongs and sallied forth at length to mount to the crater.
\ O lft SCENES in life, come and gone in an hour, remain throughout a lifetime
stamped upon the memory. That climb up Asnna was one of these forme. The
mountains became as smooth and naked of vegetation as a crater on themoon.
Walking three or four persons behind our guide, I turned and looked back. The
distance between each climber was gradually growing greater. In a long, fan-
tastic zigzag little parasites of human beings were ascending the sides of that
stupendous ash-heap in half real light supplied from the plate of lunar yellow
now riding in our rear. Native men in bare legs, their heads protected from
showers of tiny pebbles by conical straw hats, were interspersed with Japanese
maidens in beflowered kononos who might have stepped from a screen in a tea-
house. When these women began to feel fatigue, the men unwound lengthy sashes
tied them in a loop, slung this loop around the waist of the woman behind, and
with the front end of the loop against their own bellies, would strain against
the grade to haul those ladies higher. Jesting, laughter, a general nocturnal
pranking, enlivened this ascent. What a sombre people we Nordics are on prin-
ciple beside these happy "heathen", carefree in their homeland! . .
Up, up, we mounted, the ash of the scoria soon wrecking our sandals.
I lost tho brass tip on the end of ny walking-stick. So sharp was the scoria
that after annhour of thrusting this cane into the lava rock, it was sharp-
ened like a fish spear. As our sandals cut to pieces, we sat down and put on
new from the supply around our necks. Soon the track became so steep, and one
set of body muscles so fatigued, thnt we had to start zigzagging . , twenty
stops to the left, twenty steps to the right. And greater and more terrible
over our heads was looming the sulphur cloud, the nimbus from the crater like
an umbrella over hades.
It was a quarter to four in the morning when at last we reached tho top.
My legs were played out. I made the last five hundred feet literally crawl-
ing on knees and hands,
"If the sulphur shifts," warned Vinton, "run in the opposite direction
and keep close against the ground!"
"If the sulphur shifts," I answered, "I stay right where I an."
"Do you want to be gassed?"
"I'll say I want to be gassed. Then I don't have to repeat that awful
70
trek down!" The Vinton hoy riled no. Around and about, I sny, he da.rted
like a spaniel, whooping and jumping, throwing stones, covering three noun-
tain clinbs in that necromantic norning. "If you’d tie that kid of yours
in one place," I told Sunner, "I wouldn't feel half so played out."
Scattered about us were fields of boulders cast up fron the crater.
Rarely a month passed that a tourist was not killed by a shower of such pro-
jectiles. They ranged in size from a football to a bungalow. I crawled
behind a barricade of these to escape the icy gale that was howling across
that summit.
"Whoopeel" cried young Vinton. "I've just been over and looked in the
crater."
I did not doubt this in the least. If he had told me that ho had just
skipped down and breakfasted in Karazawa, and was back again, I would not have
challenged him. But I night have cut his throat. I had the motive and the
knife.
"Look out you don't fall ini" his parent admonished him.
"No such good luck!" I muttered to myself. I lay in the lee of a boul-
der, with Faus's shawl about me, and waited for a volcano to burn out in my
legs. Then, in the darkest hour of morning, with the noon on the wane, I ap-
proached the crater's brink and looked into Inferno . .
The opposite wall was a half-mile across. Between us and that cliff was
a sea of molten brinstone. It did not boil or bubble. It lay like a great
mangey mass of cataclysmic greyness, a lake of unspeakable tremors, filled al-
most to its brim with igneous content. Suddenly across this mass would shoot
a forked-lightning streak of vivid vernillion — to be covered at once by that
coat of stinking top-crust. I began to be sickened by the stench of the sul-
phur. Back I retreated to my barricade of boulders.
"A fellow doosn't care to watch that very long," said someone close by.
"It's as near the Pit of Hell as I hope I ever get," I answered with
vehemence.
"LookJ" cried young Vinton several minutes later. "The sun's coming up!"
We looked where he pointed. Across hundreds of milos about and below us
the Japaneso hinterland lay shrouded in mist. It was not really mist. It was
ceiling of cloud that presently in Karazawa would compose murky heavens. Off
across this spread of majestic effulgence a
. crude light was breaking. We sat
in the lee of those boulders and watched. My clothing was dank from the per-
spiration of my climb, never had mountain wind cut through me so cold. I
clasped my arms about my knees and beheld an exhibition that one rarely sees
while his spirit is earthbound . .
Tho dull grey of east began molting in color, . . weak lemon at first,
then strata of cherry. Lemon and cherry strengthened into crimson. This
crimson bled off and bathed gory horizons. Then in the eastern center of the
crucible, bright yellow was fusing. It grew hotter and higher. Like a
soundless organ to unspeakable grandeur, I thought, its chords were crashing
mightier. At the apex of its resonance, a terrifying shaft of brilliance
reached us like a javelin.
The uppermost point of the sun was in evidence!
The English language contains no terns of pigments with which to paint
the canvass that now filled up before us. Dawn above those clouds was not
dawn as men know it. In a matter of minutes our tortured eyesight had turned
fron the pit of Inferno to the lambent gates of Paradise.
I knew God in those moments.
What became of Sumner, young Vinton, Faus, the rest of the party either
American or Japanese, I sensed not, nor cared. The Golgotha of the night's
exertion was overwhelmingly repaid in that breathless experience of beholding
71
for one transfixed instant those celestial glories unto which I was witness.
I sat upon that volcanic sunnit and saw the world in sunrise. An hour rent
by. Two hours. Faus, discernable now as a bespectacled individual in a shape-
less black hat, cane over and said, "I guess I'll start down."
"Go ahead," I replied. "I can find ny way back."
Vinton went down, and his spaniel brat with him. With a warn sun nount-
ing higher, I remained in the lee of the rockpile and dozed. When I awoke, I
tried to get up. I discovered that ny tortured muscles had stiffened. But
the floor-clouds had parted, far down below ne. Dimly I nade out Karazawa
where Marion, by now, would be eating breakfast, . . the mystical reaches of
Japanese distance. I sank back in meditation and ny thoughts wandered lazily.
Tomorrow, next week, I was starting for the wars. I was heading into
Bolshevia, to encounter that Bath of Horror that would one day change ne from
a nondescript writer with a nonchalant existence to a grin crusader — that no
similar Four Horsemen should ever ride ny country.
But I could not know it then. I but sensed it intuitively. What I
really should have sensed that morning, but did not, was the prescient signif-
icance that in arriving on that height in exotic Nippon I had almost, in a lit-
eral sense, arrived at a height in ny second Life Cycle. The lowest point in
that cycle had been turned while I lay in bed behind the Town Hall in Wilming-
ton and heard that blatant, shuffling music as we grieved for little Harriet,
Death and dancingl Dancing and death! I had arisen from that bed, disposed of
my paper, started to climb — steadily, vigorously, to the proninence on which
I sat at this moment. Both literally and figuratively it was the highest apex
I had attained in ny young manhood. I was due to travel a thousand niles west-
ward still, before I retraced ny steps into temporary debacle. But when I arose
to start down from Asana, I was also starting down into Iiarsh. disintegration.
Nine years later I was due to have traversed the bottom and arrived at a still
higher pinnacle — and on that higher pinnacle The Door to Revelation was to
open for ne, thrice more resplendent than the vista of vaporous Paradise which
I had beheld that morning. The experience on Asnna was but the earthly fore-
runner of something that still lay ahead to be experienced tacitly. Explain
it I cannot till I take my reader forward forward to a dawn in the Sierra
Madre mountains of southern California when the world changed before ne, and
from the Hades of Earthly Vicisssitude I entered with ecstacy into rapturous
Spirituality, the crux of Reality. Ono was to be the prototype of the other.
The future still held the key that unlocked that Higher Door, however,
and I had nine more years of journeyings through lowlands and morasses before
I knew ny earthly commission, that Christos had not spoken falsely when He
said, "In ny Father's house are many mansions! I go to prepare a place for
you, that whore I am, ye may be also!"
It was the Alpha and Onega of earthly achievement. But only the heights
of the world could expound it . .
I went down at last, climbing down painfully, step after step. A differ-
ent set of muscles now shrieked with the torture. Significant to relate, I
went down alone.
Always and forever, we go down alone.
My party of the night had all vanished now. Brilliance of sunlight was
flooding the world. Yet the depths into which I was lowering myself, moment
on moment, were dark, dark . .
72
TH E DOOR TO REVELATION
PART THREE
O'
\
CHAPTER ONE
PEAKING allegorically, I left ny youthful writing-self up on the sunnit
'
j of Asana volcano . .
>w/ The world, all about ne was turning bottonside up. And when such a
thing as a world is turned hottonside up, some nighty strange jetson cones
floating to the top. I was presently to nee,t it, to go through ten to fif-
teen years of still nore practical experiencing before I could perceive the
education I was receiving, in perspective, and properly appraise the nerits
of its factors* The night cane in Yokohama when I kissed the wife of ny
youthful narriage goodbye and went aboard a sleeping-car that would take ne
to Tsuruga. Tsuruga was the seaport on Japan1s western side where the Rus-
sian steamers docked, and where troops were being loaded.
A Tokio druggist, an Englishman, going up to Vladivostok to see about
medical contracts, was ny Pullnnn companion. He was an affable fellow and
tried to nake ne share his hip flask. "You don't know what you've got ahead
of you," he said when I refused. I saw no reason for getting drunk in anti-
cipation of it, however. He fell into a maudlin harangue against the Japs,
the war, the world. I dropped into slumber, and when I awakened, the journey
had ended.
I looked out and saw the world was misty grey, with an imminent sun be-
ginning to burnish fragrant dews. I heard the inimitable sound of sabres in
scabbards. Japanese officers were strolling the platform. Then we were side-
tracked, down along a wharf. Across a plnnkod spaco was a grizzled transport.
Gold letters upon its prow spelled PENZA. It would take us up to Russia. Its
crew was made up of tall, brawny slavs, wearing caps of white leather and
loose Russian blouses. The size of these white men made notable contrast to
the diminutive orientals I had been meeting through the weeks. The vessel
would not sail until evening, however. I wont aboard, got ny reservations,
then returned to the station — to encounter the eninent Dr. Toisler and his
staff of American surgeons and nurses, afterwards to compose the famous Mercy
Train that was a distinctive feature of the Intervention. The Doctor invited
ne to have breakfast with his men. During the morning I also ran into an-
other Red Triangle man who had been on ny train, George Gleason, from Tokio.
Ten years later George was to distinguish himself as the chief promotor of
The Institute of Pacific Relations . ,
George was a sedate, methodical fellow, taking his mission at life and
war seriously, his earnest bluo eyes looking upon a bedlanic world through
thick-lensed gold spectacles. Later in Bolshevia he would supply us with
■•uch mirth, insisting on shedding his uniform each night — no matter what
the temperature or military predicament — and borrowing ny pajamas in which
to retire. Going to bed, with George, was a rite. He never neglected it.
As though to tease him about it, however, the fates had decreed that his per-
sonal baggage containing his pajamas should be lost at Tsuruga. The Japanese
w ere experts at that sort of thing. Without intending to be funny, they had
73
signs posted over nost of their express-rooms —
YOUR BAGGAGE WILL BE HANDLED HERE, PLEASE!
WE WILL SHIP IT IN ALL DIRECTIONS
They unerringly did!
So George went to war without his pajamas. And it bothered him fright-
fully. And he talked a lot about it, almost as much as I talked about blankets,
I had similarly missed a blanket-roll. My life was saved in this regard a week
later when Ed Iglehart's brother reached Vladivostokwith more bedding than he
could use. He threw me two blankets and I guarded then closer than my messkit.
I cherished then throughout the grin campaign that followed — to cone out at
last and go back to Tokio. "Iglehart certainly was a prince," I told Marion
gratefully.
"Let me see those blankets," she ordered,
I spread them before her, frayed, tattered, and soiled, from four months
of campaigning.
"Those are the blankets I discovered that you’d left behind," she an-
nounced, "I asked him to deliver them. Didn't he tell you?"
Things like that make for war. With what nagnarfcity had he thrown ne ny
own property! Of course we did not expect to be put to bed every night, and
tucked in, and kissed, and given a drink of water! . ,
IT WAS during that day while lounging in the Tsuruga station that for the first
tine in my life I was introduced to the world-wide Jewish question. And it
cane out in conversation with one of Toisler's surgeons. Although an American,
he had joined the medical staff of the Russian armies from Poland at the out-
break of the war. I had asked him to tell ne about the causes for the Inter-
vention.
"It's something like this," he responded sourly. "When Russia went Bol-
shevik, there were a lot of Czecho-Slovakians — or Bohemians — interned in
the Ukraine who wanted to fight the brawl to a finish. They knew from their
own bitter experience that this war wasn't connived by the Germans at all.
It was connived by a
. crowd of rich Jews, living in Germany and Austria. Those
Sons of Judah thought when they fanaggled the scrap that it'd all be over in
a couple of months and leave 'em sitting pretty in several conquered countries.
When they couldn't get Russia licked in a stand-up fight, they imported the
half-Jew, Lenin, to smash Russia Ly intrigue. You know, don't you, that the
whole Bolshevik revolution was financed by the American Jew, Jacob Schiff,
out of the Kuhn-Loeb banking house in New York?"
"No," I said. "I didn’t. Was it?"
"Huh, nobody's any dumber than an American, just come from his own
country. YES, IT WAS! And every private in the Czech army knows it. The
Czechs knew that if the Jews of Germany won the war, it might be curtains
for little Bohemia. Jews would be all over the place. So they made a se-
cret deal with France to bust out of their internment camp, trek across
Siberia, and get to the western front by way of United States. But sur-
prises started popping. General Gaida, a kid twenty-eight years old, made
good his getaway and took his men with him. They started out without guns,
ammunition, clothes, or food. They got their first weapons by rushing Rus-
sian amy posts and capturing their supplies. Then they started grabbing and
guarding the Trans-Siberian Railroad as they moved eastward, to protect them-
selves behind them. By the time they got to Vladivostok, they'd captured the
country. Then it was a problem whether to keep on toward France or stay in
Siberia."
74
"But they did stay?" I suggested . .
"Yeah, they stayed. France looked upon the victorious Bohemians as
wards of her own, and it didn't hurt her feelings to he in control of Lenin's
hack door. The Czechs got word that they were more valuable holding that
railroad, which night cone in handy at the Peace Conference, than adding a
few thousand fighters to the gory lines in Belgium. They proceded to dig
in. At once Japan got nervous. If France entrenched in Siberia, who would
get her out when the war had been ended? The Japs decided they'd better get
the fish-hooks out of their pants, hop up to Siberia, and do their share of
grabbing. The moment the Japs gave it out that they felt obligated to help
'the valiant Bohemians' in this part of the world, the Americans had a gripe.
If Japan's expedition resulted in her staying in Siberia and pairing off with
France, Japan night thereby become an Asiatic power that would mean a lot more
battleships. 'We'll come and help both of you,' Uncle Sam offered. But no
soon had he announced this magnanmity than Great Britain took notice. 'We're
all in this mess together,' said King George, 'so I'm sending up a few of ny
men to show England's good intentions.' Not to be left behind, Italy next
got a dose of the jitters. What was going on in Siberia that she wasn't in
on? She proposed to find out. So here we all are," my informant summed up.
"The Czechs a.re here to police the Bolsheviks. The French have come in to
police the Czechs. The Japs are arriving to police the French. The Yanks
are showing up to police the Japanese. The British are on tap to police the
Americans, and the Italians are scurrying 'round to police anything that's
left. We haven't seen any Swiss yet, or Spaniards, or Esquimaux. But that's
because those races aren't yet in this war."
"Then you don't think there'll be a major offensive against Germany in
the east?"
"Naw, everybody's sick of the war but the Americans and the Jews. Why
got sick of something that makes you big money? I tell you, all these nation-
als are merely piling in here to see what they can grab. They'll hang onto
what they can, and use what they can't to trade their way out. It's the great-
est Kilkenny Cat show that this world ness has turned up."
"How will it end?"
"I'll tell you how. It'll end with all but the Jews and Japanese driven
out entirely. The Japs will set up a buffer state between Russia and China,
because they can't afford to hove the Jews so close to then."
"You neon the Russians so close to them."
"I nean the JEWS so close to then. Don’t you know yet what the Jews
aro up to? I tell you they're out to make Russia a world political state
for Jews — with their own form of government, which'11 probably be a dicta-
torship. And Japan can't afford to have Lenin's Jewish principles — if you
want to call 'on principles — spread down into China, or Korea, or Nippon.
They'd either arouse the millions of China against the Mikado and give that
gent and his family the Works, or they'd undermine the throne and kick the
Shinto religion into Jewish chop seuy*"
"But why Jewish?" I queried.
"Man, you won't nonkey-fool long out here before you'll realize the
true nature of what's been turned loose on this world of Gentile imbeciles.
Don't you know the Jews are behind this whole bust-up?"
"Jews? What Jews?" The only Jews I had seriously encountered to that
moment were certain shrewd-buying New York paper dealers when I had been in
the factory with father, or the pack pedlors in the towns and cities where I
had lived, who were reputed to go to church with their hats on, and were gen-
erally known as sheenies.
My informant shook his head. "You're just like all the rest of the
goofs who've fallen for this war, thinking to make the world safe for Dcnoc-
75
cracy. But someday the truth will cone out as to just who did start it, ang
what they meant to gain. Take my word for it, it wasn't the Germans. I
lived in Warsaw before I joined Toisler in Japan. Live for a time in Poland
if you want to know Jews."
"But we are going to make the world safe for Democracy, aren't we?"
"Democracy, hell! The United States isn't a democracy. The United
States is a republic. There's all the difference in the world. Why should
we make the United Stated safe for something it isn't?"
I gave this intelligence the attention it merited . .
"The United States has been sold on this Safe-for-Denocracy stuff,"
continued the doctor, "by the same conniving gang that first sold poor Ger-
many on the Der-Tag stuff, . . the same as the French back in 1789 were sold
on the Liberty-Fraternity-Equality stuff, three terns absolutely contradictory
to anyone with brains. Poor dumb Germans. If anyone"s to be pitied in this
war it's the gullible Heinies who thought that Der Tag meant Germany's place
in the sun. The Day, so to speak, of Germany's world power. And all the tine
the Jews were snickering in their sleeves! Because it really meant The Day
when the world dispersion of the Jews would be ended. That's the real mean-
ing of the tern Der Tag. And they're being killed by millions to make a
kosher holiday."
"You don't think the Germans brought on the war?"
"Listen! . . this war was stamped, cut, nailed together, sandpapered,
and shellacked by three cut-throat Jew gangs working in racial union out of
Frankfurt, Paris, and London, years before that damned little kike of a
Princet shot the Grand Duke — to order! — at Sarajevo. We Allies are just
the Christian cannon-fodder who go out in the name of glory and carve out
each other's bowels, so for two dead Gentiles there'll be room for six Jews."
I finally moved away from this caustic, racially-biased person. This
was no time to go stirring up more race hatreds, I told myself. The world
had enough hates in it without laying all its troubles at the door of the
poor persecuted Hebrews.
And yet that was my rationalizing.
Deep down in my heart I knew from those twenty years of reading history
in bed that Jewry was a problem which few Christians suspected . .
CHAPTER TWO
W
ELL," declared Gleason, joining me at the Penza's rail next afternoon,
"yonder lies Russia!"
I looked northwestward. Up from the waterline of the dirty Japan
Sea, a row of grey hills was rising. Afar on one of those hills as we
steamed in closer I saw a bizarre pear-shaped turret.
"What's that grotesque thing?" I asked Gleason, puzzled.
"Huh, the dome of a mosque."
The dome took on tower-like foundations. These foundations showed walls,
adjoining buildings. But long before the farflung city about the Golden Horn
came in sight, the rain clouds smothered down. We plowed up Golden Horn Bay
in a downpour that sent us inside the transport. Not until we docked did I
venture out on deck.
Before me were long low dockhouses, not unlike the Hoboken waterfront.
Behind them, against a gigantic scoop in the hills, arose Vladivostok city.
Its stolid stone business blocks and apartment houses, lifting tier on tier
from the Malta-skya were in sharp architectural contrast to effeminate Japan
from which I had cone. And surmounting then all, on the highest hill to the
/ V
76
northward was the Greek Catholic mosque, its twin domes and turrets both in
prominence as we roped to a slimy wooden wharf where crated army supplies
almost rivaled the height of the buildings.
It came to me with a shock that this was Siberia. Where was the snow?
Where were the wolves that dashed after whipped horses hitched to fleeing
sledges and that stopped to eat the member of the pack that went down in that
pursuit until the last wolf had the whole pack inside him? Somehow I had al-
ways visualized Siberia as perpetually icebound, within the Arctic circle,
where the snow never melted, even in the summer, and the inhabitants dressed
in furs from New Year's to Christmas. Before me was an ultra-modern city,
with electric lights and tram cars, picture shows and de luxe restaurants.
On the wharfs below us were huge crates of merchandise, I say, railroad
and army supplies — criminally exposed to destructive weather — hucksters
and hawkers, Chinese drayers who carried their loads on wooden frameworks
slung against their foreheads, long-bearded Russians in voluminous skirt-
coats, droshkies, huge blond giants in more white-leather caps, and blouses
dangling outside their trousers. And percolating through the motley were the
colorful uniforms of the American, British, and Japanese soldiery, officers
and dough-boys, on a hundred soggy missions, all deluged by summer night's
rain. We went ashore into exotic melancholy. For the present the city's
lighting system was out of commission.
"One of the first things the dam' Bees did," said a Yankee officer who
offered to show us the way to Red Triangle headquarters, "was to wreck the
power plant when the Czechs approached. They're working double time to fix
it. What good it did the Bees to smash it, no one seems to know."
"What do you mean, Bees?" I asked.
"Local nickname for Bolsheviks. Their only idea of being in power seems
to be, smashing things. That's the way Jews act, anyhow, especially the rab-
ble when it gets on a tear. You'll find out."
"What is this, a game? Everybody's knocking Jews. Pretty soon I'll be
playing it."
"I'll say you'll be playing it, if you do much traveling into the in-
terior and find out who's causing all this bloody upset."
We picked our way up through the dockyards into a steep cobbled street.
Here and there the putrid carcasses of dead hogs or dogs were smelled by all
comers, lying in gutters, unsung and unburied. Of course no one might have
cared to sing about a hog, especially a thoroughly dead hog, but someone at
least might have had the sense to bury it. This whole Russian nation seemed
to be permeated with a queer acrid odor compounded of soft coal, dead animals,
sea bilge, horse manure, and improperly fumigated human excresence. We came
up onto an east-and-west thoroughfare bumbling with as much activity as might
be found on Hennepin Avenue, Minneapolis. Everyone seemed to accept that the
war was hundreds of miles distant on the Trans-Siberian. That interminable
main street — five to ten miles long — curved with the contour of Golden
Horn Bay and the hills that made the city's northern background. Miles of
three and four story business structures, quite in the American manner, lined
this main stem, so wide that a double-track trolley line traversed its center.
At the first corner we reached, we saw a bedraggled carousel, its gilded
lions and tawdry awnings sodden in the twilight drizzle. About the rest of
this lot were the nondescript paraphernalia of an abandoned street carnival.
Wo started up the street toward the American consulate. Here and there we
perceived a building whose windows were smashed, whose walls were obviously
pockmarked by bullet holes. The entire Russian populace appeared as though
it had been outfitted at a Salvation Army rummage sale — so I observed as we
moved along the picturesque sidewalks in front of restaurants ;-nd hotels.
77
"So this is Russia!" I muttered to Gleason. It gave me a different thrill
than I had gotten in Japan. Nov/ I was walking on the continent of Asia.
"Yeah," said George, "about as Russian right now as New York is American.
You ain’t seen nothing yet."
We slept that first night on the floor of a freight-car hack near the
docks. Billeting conditions were chaotic.
George made a frightful stew about it. It was a messy place to wear
fresh pajamas . .
J SLEPT the second night after my arrival in Siberia in a house that had form-
J erly been occupied by the head Commissar of Czarist Police for the Eastern
Siberia district. The commissar,I understood, had fled down to China on the
coming of the Bolsheviks. The United States had taken the property under its
protection. Uncle Sam was always doing little things like that . .
Who was living in that house instead, what I saw go on there, who I met,
is not feasible to record in this present edition of this work. After all, the
Bolshevist Jews are still in control of Russia and I do not propose to tell them
things that are none of their business.
Between my night in the freight-car, and the night or series of nights in
the residence of the fugitive commissar, an important conference was held in the
gaunt and sombre rooms of a groystone mansion overlooking Vladivostok on the
west. The atmosphere of the place is vivid in my memory. I recall arriving
ahead of my confreres and being ushered into a sepulchral drawingroom whose over-
stuffed furniture was sheeted, whose elaborate chandeliers were globeless, and
whose dominating appointment was a life-sized painting of a Tartar massacre hung
above an expansive fireplace. The mansion reeked of that peculiar incense that
is burned in Russian mosques. Weird strains of ragged off-key violin music
presently sounded through the rooms. Listening more carefully, I heard strid-
ent reproofs administered to the player. Evidently a tutor was instructing a
boy in apartments down the hall. It was the characteristic touch.
In this land of strife and Bolshevism, of human upset and political chaos,
little Ivan must have his violin lesson! . .
In the hour that followed I got my orders. The officials of the Young Men’
ss
Christian Association desired to secure vital information about internal Siberia
and eastern Russia that would facilitate a drive to turn the young men of Russia
away from satanic Leninism, to locate strong educational centers under Christian
ayspices from the cities of Kamchatka southwestward to the Ukraine, and converse-
ly to acquaint the people of the United States with the true nature of Communism
behind the scenes. It was a noble plan and all honor to the men who then thought
it possible. Could it have succeeded, the story of Siberian Asia night have been
altered. My orders amounted to this: "Go into the interior and find out what’s
happening. Make contact with so-and-so at this point, and so-and-so at that
point. Wherever you can do so, bring us back kodak pictures of conditions but
don't let yourself be caught using a camera too boldly or it means you'll be
shot. Ifsealed orders or documents are put into your hands to bring out for
the diplomatic corps, bring them out and no questions asked. You have carte
blanche to move anywhere behind the Czech, Japanese, and white Russian lines from
Karborosk to Tomsk. You'll do this as an ordinary Red Triangle secretary, hitch-
ing your canteen car to Japanese and White Russian troop trains. No one is to
know that you’re anything else. And you'll start up-country into the Blagovos-
chenck sector, and around the A m u r River district, day after tomorrow. When you
reach Chita, wait there if advisable for contact with the official Red Triangle
Commission that is going through to Irkirtsk in about a fortnight, and make your
firstreport." It was a strange commission. No man in the whole war had a
stranger. I found out that I was combination Red Triangle secretary, war corres-
\
78
pondent, espionage agent, secret photographer, canteen proprietor, and consular
courier — a sort of field scout for the advance guard of the Christian Y, striv-
ing to plant sanity, decency, and political stability in a land being slowly
mutilated and mangled by Communism. In all of it I was to have no bodyguard,
no official standing beyond my khaki uniform that carried the dubious military
authority of second lieutenant. If I landed in a jam I could not appeal to my
government for protection. Once I left Vladivostok and the jurisdiction of the
Allies, I must depend solely on my wits. If I came out, I would merely be
thanked. If I did not come out, no one would be the wiser. I would be just an-
other dead body staring up at the cold Siberian sun to be picked by the jackels
that roamed the empty wastes.
Reduced to American terns geographically understandable, it was not unlike
being ordered to start from New York, proceed with a canteen freight-car up and
around New England and the great curve of the St. Lawrence, to make my first
report at a place that might be Chicago. From there I would be dispatched to
Irkurtsk, Omnsk, Tomsk — cities that on the American map might bo Minneapolis,
Kansas City, Denver. Only remember that Siberian distances, in contrast to the
United States, were three times as great.
Viewed in a more personal light, however, it meant a stupendous field for
social and political observation. I had been handed an entire theater of Asiat-
ic hostilities to research at caprice. I had such a chance as came to no other
man in the war to apprise myself of racial and psychological conditions from
Japan to Turkestan. I would see Bolshevism installed in a country with my ov/n
eyes — and the more accreditable eye of the kodak. I could meet and discuss
this great soviet "experiment" with men who were undertaking to combat it tooth
and claw in its incipient stages. Furthermore, I was to be private military
observer at maneuvers of the Japanese troops throughout Manchuria and North
China, I was to live among the little brown men under war-time conditions. I
was to meet up with ill-fated General Kolchak and his heroic White Russians, to
become caught in the great eastern exodus of royalist refugees fleeing before
the Latvian mercenaries of Lenin and Trotsky, and hear from them by first-hand
contact exactly what had happened in Petrograd and Moscow — and even Ekarter-
inburgh with its Romanoff shambles — as the vast Communistic regime came in.
When parlor socialists and drawingroom pinks here in the United States
try to tell me what Bolshevism is or is not, or what Communism will do or what
it will not do, I need not rely on Jewish propaganda or fanatical ignoramusses
to serve me with the truth. I WAS THERE AND SAW COMMUNISM INSTALLED BEFORE MY
GAZE! For I left Vladivostok on the day after that conference, and thereupon,
and until after the end of the war, I was to all intents and purposes a free-
lance adventurer, my own private espionage agent, lost in the immensity of
embattled Asia, gaining my own soldier-of-fortune education and enlightenment
for the role I would be called upin to play in my own country, fifteen years in
future. With such a background, such an opportunity, such an experience, such
a training, how could I do otherwise than pursue my present calling? . .
|n the lazy heat of deep Siberian summer I left Vladivostok, proceding to
Kharborosk where a Y-car was available. The Allied armies were moving so rap-
idly that ground canteens for the soldiery were impracticable. So through pol-
itical graft and military requisitioning, a fleet of great Manchurian freight-
cars had been secured. The gauge of the Trans-Siberian is four inches wider
than the railroads in America. This meant heavier rolling-stock, more sizable
trains, smoother riding comfort when times were normal. It also meant freight-
cars half as big again as anything met with in the United States. Chinese car-
penters had been put to work on these. Doors and windows were cut in their
sides. Within the barnlike interiors, the space was divided by partitions from
79
side door to side door. One end was converted into rhut for soldiers, with
benches, samovars, reading and writing facilities, decorations of Czech and
Japanese flags. The opposite end was converted into a traveling store. All
the’
goods and confections which the men of the Allied armies could not other-
wise secure in the country, were available from the stocks in these rolling em-
poriums, Still further in behind the stocks of these goods were the private
quarters for the secretaries, traveling two to the car. When reconstructed and
equipped, these massive cars were coupled to the ends of military trains, to be
shunted onto sidings near embattled areas.
Gleason accompanied me as far as Kharborosk. There I presented him with
my stock of pajamas and left him to wear them for the balance of the war. I
quickly found that it was not the sort of mission on which one wore pajamas.
On one hitch of my adventurings, a stretch of twenty-six days passed in which
I had no opportunity to remove my clothes, not even to wash soiled linen?
Where would I have washed it? Pajamas indeed. My traveling outfit was swiftly
cut down to my mess-kit, my blanket-roll, my portable typewriter, my contra-
brand camera. At Kharborosk I switched to my canteen car and acquired for a
partner a young chap named Vyles, Up around the Blagoveschenck sector we now
made our way. And swiftly enough we ran into WAR I
T*HE TERRAIN was flat, sandy, and overgrown with scrub. Hundreds of miles dup-
' licated the landscape between Fitchburg and Boston, back in Massachusetts.
Our locomotive burned wood. Showers of sparks had long since fired the wood-
lands far back from the tracks. Lakes and ravines opened as we mounted north-
ward toward Kamchatka. Billions of wild flowers, of every conceivable color and
variety, carpeted the uplands. The roadbed was rock-ballasted, the curves
broad and stolid, the bridges heavy and substantial. But of cities or towns we
saw next to none. The railroads in Siberia, not constructed for private profits
from the citizenry but for movement of troops in war, made no effort to zigzag
from community to community. Straight trackage was the rule, and if a city or
town happened to be miles from the right-of-way it was transportationally short
on luck. The proximity of a sizable community might be indicated only by a
long low railroad station, built half of logs, set back from the tracks across
a rough-planked platform. The buildings comprised everything from waitingroon
and freight depot to station-master's private home and the omnipresent hot-
water house. Most of these units were painted a flagrant mustard yellow. The
typical Russian touch was supplied by the carved arabesque and rococo decora-
tions in the angles of the gables.
Hor after hour, day after day, we droned northward, steadily approaching
the Alexicffs battlefields. Japanese troops were now everywhere in evidence,
vigilant against guerilla raidings. Bands of these renegade raiders made any
sort of traveling precarious. Cossack groups, defected from the regular armies
after the coming of Lenin, were plundering and pillaging on principle, In our
car we had Josef, a Czech private, as cook and orderly. One night he summoned
me excitedly and pointed northwestward. I summoned Vyles as quickly. The twi-
light sky held a horrid nimbus. Red flames were shooting higher as the rail-
road distance lessened.
"Some bonfire!" Vyles cried worriedly.
"Ah tank Blagoveschenck, she burn," muttered Josef.
A city consumed by flames'. The train slowed down and proceded cautiously.
Lit by the growing glare, darkness smothered with ominous suddenness. A man on
a pony went tearing past. We could not tell his nationality but Josef addressed
him in Bohemian Russian.
"Ho say Bolsheveek set fire. Mooch peeble shot. Japs have battle on hands
preety qvick. Mebbe boog bridge down ahead, we wait here long time! . . "
80
CHAPTER THREE
- -J
HE BRIDGE was not out. And for military reasons the train to which our car
was attached did not stop its movement — at least not that night. I as-
sume that the danger from the countryside taking fire determined the com-
mander not to "be caught in the pocket of the holocaust. Slowly, weirdly, we
jolted along, scenes of grisly confusion mottling the darkness in the head-
light of our engine. All that caloric night we kept in motion, the glare of
the flames so Bright at times that it reddened our faces.
It is a terrible, an unforgettable, sight to see a whole city burn. The
smoke was magnificent, as magnificent as it was tragic and the nimbus was breath-
taking. Verily it seemed at times as though whole roofs of houses went sailing
off into the furls of the radiance. The crackling roar sounded like the wash of
distant ocean in a storm. It was daylight when we halted and were shunted upon
a siding. Whereupon battle-begrimed Japanese troops proceded to avail themselves
of the services we offered . .
I was suddenly stymied in an active theater of the war’s strangest sector.
No one seemed to know who had fired the city, or what had been the purpose.
Half a dozen different groups of Cossacks, led by predatory hetmen, were as
great a menace to law and order as the roving Bolsheviki. The objective of all
groups seemed to be to attack and exterminate whosoever opposed them. One
night it might be Czechs, on another night it might be Japanese. Eight hundred
of our American dough-boys were reported trapped in one of these nocturnal raid-
ings and ingloriously massacred. The excuses advanced for such guerilla war-
fare was that the various nationals should withdraw from Siberia. It was a
brilliant idea and would have saved a lot of lives, only no one seemed to take
it. And as in every warfare of this order, it was the inoffensive common citi-
zen who underwent the greatest suffering . .
This disruption of the peasantry was a piteous thing. All Siberia, I was
presently to learn, was a chaotic migration of disrupted peasantry, to destina-
tion to be arrived at, no geographical knowledge of the country to enable provin-
cials to return to their villages — which all too often had become charred heaps
of cabins on lonely steppes. Peasant trains were choked to suffocation when cold
weather arrived, with these peregrinating homesteaders. Whole villages of peas-
ants would sieze upon a train, get into it, and refuse to be ejected. As most of
the trains had wheels beneath the coaches, and rails beneath the wheels, and as
sympathetic railroad crews manned cars and locomotives, these villages MOVED —
so long as wood or coal held out. When it did not hold out, the engine-crew
would halt at a point on the steppes, go over the hill with portable barrows,
and come back with surface-coal turned up beneath the sod.
And what sights were all too common beneath the windows of those coaches!
I know, I know!
Who can describe a Tartar battlefield, piled or strewn with human bodies?
The nicawber sights, as Japanese or Czech troops set about interring the dead,
if one could term it interrment, were rendered thrice unspeakable by the stark
naJcedness of the corpses slowly bloating in putriferous sunshine. Mangled bod-
ies, burned bodies, bodies impaled by many things besides honest bayonets! The
barbarous practice of stripping the dead of fabrics or boots, too valuable to
bury, was something so common that it soon aroused no comment. Of the demoni-
cal mutilations I cannot write . . . But I made rakish discoveries in those
horrible days. I learned that a corpse, left overlong above ground, turns a
sickish green-black. I learned that the dead on a battlefield sometimes move,
sometimes groan, without a spabk of life within them. A mysterious feature of
those Siberian raiding fields was the •unaccountable quantities of what seemed to
be tar paper thrown promiscuously about in tattered sheets. What it was, where
81
it cane fron, I never learned accurately. I made the discovery too that hunan
stench can become so terrific that the sense of smell suspends, the nostrils
no longer sense it. Few attempts were made to lift the charred corpses and
"bury them in shrouds. There were no shrouds. A trench was dug. Ropes were
looped over stiffened members and piles of bodies dragged apart and across the
sod as so much carrion . . for dumping in such trenches. Such things are not
nice for the imaginations of the squeamish BUT THEY CAN HAPPEN RIGHT HERE IN
AMERICA IF THIS COMMUNIST PERIL BECOMES GUERILLA WARFARE'
. Certainly .they made
warfare as I saw it in Siberia. No nan can say that he has lived a full life
until he has known Love, Riches, and War. And the greatest of these is War.
Seeing a nan shot before one’s eyes was not half so terrible as those
grinning, bloated Things strewn around amid sheets and scraps of the unaccount-
able tar paper — which must have been fron water-proof linings of munitions
boxings. Again and again I thought to myself . . "and once, not so many years
ago, each and every one of them was a pink and gurgling infant, whom some for-
gotten mother had suffered equally as frightfully to bring into this bedlanic
world!" . . At one time when our car was sidetracked within a fighting area
a bewhiskered Russian came running hysterically toward it. A volley from up
the railroad yards got him. He slowed and staggered, hands clutching his belly.
Presently he was sobbing, like a frightened little boy, one hand groping for the
upright of a signal-post, the other gripping at his groin where the lead had -
gone in. When the raid was over, the little-boy sobbing gradually died away.
So too did the life. When the train was suddenly jerked fron the embattled dis-
trict, his corpse was left lying against the post as though in his exertions he
had merely dropped to sleep. It was usually a long tine before anyone buried
these corpses. The country was bestrewn with such gruesome exhibits. I brought
back one picture of five Czechs crucified against a rail fence. They had been
there a week, despatched by disemboweling. Bullets were too valuable to waste
on executions.
It could happen in Kansas, Indiana, New Jersey . .
AND YET it was not the big major engagements, the mangling of the bodies, the
J~ \ dragging away of the women's one-tine babies into trenches, the explosions
under bridges and rolling-stocks, that stayed with me longest and in the accumu-
late made that war in Siberia. It was the little hunan scenes of private dis-
traction or tragedy that tore at the heartstrings and made the trek insufferable.
One rare October afternoon our car was shunted onto the end of a peasant
train. A little family consisting of father, mother, three children, and grand-
parents, cane fron the hamlet's crude log station and began to load into the car
just ahead, of us. I doubt if that family knew where it was going, but it was
moving somewhere on principle. All its possessions were a sack of clothing,
another of onions, a bucksaw and a sr.wbuck, and a three-legged stool. These
were handed up. The grandparents got aboard and reached down for the children.
Then for some reason the young husband made a quick trip back into the station.
The building had scarcely hidden him when the train started suddenly. "Papa!
Papa!" wailed the distraught young mother who was still on the ground. Her par-
ents and babies were being borne away fron her, . . her husband could not hear
her. In nad panic, unable to get aboard, she seized insanely on the door-frame
to exert her strength and hold that train back. Her fingers locked into it as
in a death-clutch. "Stop it! Stop it!" she wailed in Russian. But the train
did not stop. It gathered momentum and she presently lost her footing. In ter-
rible danger of being crushed beneath the wheels, she was dragged down the track.
"Papa! Papa! Help me!" she wailed. That "Help nei" rang in my ears for a month
and a day. Finally her grip was ripped ruthlessly lose. She crumpled against a
culvert.
82
Happily to report, it did not kill her. Happier to relate, the train was
not departing out of that station, it had merely gone down the yards to hack
up upon a spur. So the children and parents were presently restored to that
wracked young woman, and the befuddled husband who lifted her tenderly. But
no wail of the dying ever rang half so poignantly in my heart as the cry of
love-fused maternity with which she greeted her parents and babies miraculous-
ly restored to her.
Human nature in the raw. Hunan love, human emotion, human heartbreak,
human tragedy — none of it was any less vital afar there on the other side of
the earth than in St. Johnsbury, Bennington, Wilmington, Springfield, East Tem-
pleton . . . Nothing in these later years causes my temper to slip with great-
er ease than to hear some smug American fat-head declare, anent what has taken
place in Russia, "Oh, but those barbarians! — they naturally go in for riot
and bloodshed! We’re too civilized for such things to happen in America."
Kaleidoscopia! . .
Not all of it was tragedy. On another afternoon we halted at a wayside
hamlet to take aboard a wedding party. Halted is not exactly the word, . .
rather, we ran with extreme slowness while the wedding party boarded. It costs
money to stop and start a train in Siberia, as upon the railroads of any coun-
try. Down the hill from the mosque came the stiffly starched young groom, res-
plendant in new boots — and of course other clothes — his bride upon his arm.
Her wedding costume was principally a coarse-neshed lace curtain for a veil —
a^d of course other clothes. Sprigs of flowers were thrust in lapels and head-
gear, many among the party carried arms filled with the brightest leaves of
autumn. A whole village, certainly all the relatives, had come down to the
mosque from a village up the line, to see Katrina wed to Alex. Now they must
catch the peasant train back.
Catch it, is accurate. The party caught aboard by running and jumping.
Eager hands pulled up bride and groom, aunts and uncles, nephews and grand-
parents, into the opened side-doors of the freight cars. Then when the hamlet
up the line was reached, I was witness to another curious custom in peasant
Russia. The whole party disembarked that train by jumping.
"Gosh, come and look!" Vyles called to me, entranced.
For a quarter-nile along the tracks a bed of soft gravel had been left.
The train slowed down to ten miles an hour, thereupon the married pair and
wedding guests — to use an American phrase — "joined the bird gang" . .
The groom jumped first. He did it expertly despite his bright boots,
landing his heels neatly in the sand and springing back upright. Whereupon
the bride gathered up her head lace in a bulge, gripped her skirts as she could
and landed fifty feet further up along the grit, rolling over twice. These two
honored travelers having set the example, the party followed suit. Aunts and
uncles went flying into space. Nephews and cousins left that freight-car like
cannon balls. The whole car exploded with attendants on that marriage. It
spilled jumping, acrobatic relatives as excited pare.chute jumpers leave student
airplanes.
"Gawd!" cried Vyles. "Now comes the old lady!"
Grandmother was the last to leave, but despite her years she was none the
less courageous. Gathering her voluminous skirts ahcut her aged thighs —
exposing unbelievably sturdy shanks and bastions — she set her eyes grimly
up-track and went off into air like a witch without a broom. Flat in the sand
she presently came down, her generous beam excavating a dent that must have re-
quired to be filled with a shovel. It was all in the day's festivities and
quite the proper caper. Our glorified caboose passed these people as they were
generally arising and getting the gravel shaken out of their underclothes.
Grandmother was back on her fundamentals, ruffling her skirts like a Plymouth
83
Rock mother-hen that had just had a dust-bath . .
Day after day, week after week, I moved onward among these charmingly
simple folk, characters out of Tolstoi, the prototypes in a thousand instances
of my people up in New England, subscribers to The Evening Caledonian back in
the Green Mountains. Generous to a fault, greeting us Americans with meats,
butter, vegetables, refusing tine aftertime to take a cent of payment, I rem-
ember then as gentle, inoffensive souls with a hurt look in their big and wist-
ful eyes that any such scourge could have cone upon their land. Dead now, all
dead, most of then. Murdered, liquidated, by the sword or starvation — the
proud work of a race of people called Jews who are quite certain the Lord has
intended then to be the aristocrats of the earth.
\A/INTER cones early in Siberia and stays on till May. One bitter night with
' * the first snows down, we had our car-door locked for safety and warmth.
Suddenly our train*s emergency brakes slammed on and we leaped to our feet.
Such a stop, afar on the steppes, couldmean anything. Presently in eerie
silence came hysterical babbling, and pounding on our car walls. Josef, our
Czech, abruptly went berserk.
"My peeble, my peeblei" he cried in agitation.
t
f
e got the door open. One lone coatless nan, his limbs blue with cold,
frenziedly sought to claw in upon the floor. There he fell senseless.
"0 God’
." cried Vyles, dropping the shirt he had raised at the back.
It was a solitary Czech private, this, previously captured in a Bolshevik
raid and interned in a camp far off in the snow wastes. All his companions
had been cutlassed. His life had been spared because he knew something about
mechanics and the Bolshevik commissar had a captured Hupmobile. Knouted un-
mercifully from tine to tine, the previous afternoon he had managed to escape.
All through the night he had stumbled across freezing wastes, coatless and hat-
less, to arrive by miraculous good fortune on the railroad right-of-way. Pres-
ently our train had drawn along and halted . .
We gently unthawed his half frozen body, dressed his wounds and fed him.
He was a broad-shouldered, golden-headed fellow whose gratitude at rescue was
so great that it embarrassed us. As his wounds healed, he became a member of
our car crew, no task too menial for him to do eagerly. We found him to have
been a graduate of the University at Prague and know a little English. Also
Joe helped him translate. He sketched to us his experiences with Gaida, his
hone life in Bohemia, his boyhood. One night, diffidently, he showed me a pic-
ture of his sweetheart. He had carried it through three dark years of carnage
and imprisonment. I took it to be a sort of honor, that he showed me that pic-
ture of his sweetheart.
So we worked our way deeper and deeper into the heart of Siberia and win-
ter. At break of one dawn, Karl took advantage of our train*s brief halt to
ease himself down beside the tracks, our car being constructed minus toilet
accomodations. I had arisen and was boiling coffee, therefore I knew when the
train moved forward suddenly. I flew to the door, for Karl was not aboard,
The sight I saw, sickened me. Karl had sprung for the grab-iron when the
train started forward. But somehow he had missed it. Down twenty feet of
snow-encrusted embankment he spiraled, arrived at the bottom, as frenziedly
started up. Again he slid back horridly.
And the train went on and left him.
There was no signal-cord connecting cars and engine. By the time Karl
had reached the top of that slippery embankment successfully, our long train
was far down the tracks and cruelly gathering speed. Madly I threw out garm-
ents, food supplies, that happened to be handy. The last view I had of Karl
was his coatless and hatless figure standing silhouetted against frosty sun,
84
bravely waving his hand in farewell. He had ridden with us two weeks. The
bitter death that he had escaped by finding us, had cone back nystically to
clain hin. Tragedy! Tragedy! . . .
Such incidents, I say, made up the war for me far nore than wholesale
carnage to which I was witness.
We worked our way around the great circle of the Amur River and finally
down to Chita. No one had heard of any Y Commission. Telegraph systems were
in chaos. Should I wait or go along? I decided to go along. There were offi-
cials to see ahead, in Irkurtsk, Omsk, Tomsk. We struck the shores of nighty
Baikal, already freezing, to remain so till May. Around the western edge of
Lake Baikal we creaked and jolted our way, our car hitched now to a train of
British Tommies.
Refugees from Bolshevia were all about us, Cernan prisoners of war, Czech
soldiery, Kolchak’s White Russians. I wanted to see Kolchak personally, due
to arrive in Irkurtsk within the fortnight. So at last came an evening when
our train approached a great Siberian city far up the northern river and I be-
held its mammoth white stone passenger terminal showing across the steppes like
the palace of a genii. Weaving up through the railroad yards, our tired train
cane at last to a halt. I got out and went toward the station, looking for the
yard-master to unhook our car. The planks snapped -under my boots like pistol-
shots. Opening massive bronze doors, I drew back in shock.
The floor of this great inner concourse was a spread of prostrate bodies,
alive but sleeping human beings, bestrewn on harsh cement. Hundreds of travel-
ers without destinations, refugees striving to get out to Japan, peasant famil-
ies with all of their worldly goods clustered about them, piteously hoping to
locate lost homesites — ■ these were packed in a chaotic mass in the only build-
ing providing shelter and warmth. On the floor at least a thousand people must
have been scattered in such spaces as offered. Men and women of every caste
and station had sought slumber in utter fatigue and despair; it took me ten min-
utes to make my way across to the back. In the middle of that ordeal, I halt-
ed and looked about me. Well did I realize that exactly the same thing could
happen in, say, the Union Station at Kansas City . . if the Jewish instigators
of this turmoil in Siberia ever got control of my distant America.
Suddenly I was attracted by sounds of soft sobbing. I turned toward a
pillar at ny right.
I beheld a picture of Motherhood Incarnate. A comely young peasant wife
sat on the floor with her back against that pillar. In the ample lap thus of-
fered, I saw the heads of sleeping children — they were gathered about her in
a spill of possessions, their figures positioned like a poignant human wheel.
But that was not all. Against her left breast was the head of her husband —
merely a lunbrous, moustached boy. Her left arm was about his shoulders as
he sagged in her embrace, her right hand applied her kerchief to her eyes.
The husband, like the children, was blissfully unconscious of wars and Jewish
ambitions. But not so the woman. With her sleeping babies gathered about her,
even the head of her man pillowed against her heart, she was awake, watching
over all of them.
And she sobbed in the midnight with no one to see,
COMEHOW that Jewish-fanaggled war got down into my marrow with the beholding of
^ that tableau. It was one of the most vivid fixations that I brought back
from Asia. That hapless young mother had not caused the war. She asked nothing
from the Schiffs, the Warburgs, the Adlers, the Samuels, . . nothing from life
beyond raising her little peasant family in some sky-girt steppes hamlet. But
inhumanly the Four Horsemen had ridden her country. World Jewry must be served.
Almighty God had His chosen human pets that He must present with a whole earth
85
of new Canaans. Tonight in the Irkurtsk railroad station, her little family
uprooted and made vagabond, she could not even tell what the coining day held
for then. They had no place to go, nothing to sustain then "but the hag of
hard vegetables against which her shoulder rested. And when nortal weariness
brought nerciful unconsciousness to her babies and her nan, the wonan stayed
awake, supplied then with the softness of her body, faced their tragedy alone
with her notherhood.
And they tell us that we nust love the Jews, whom I have long-since proven
to ny grin conviction were plotters and nanipulators of all that horror that
they night attain to their messianic roles as the earth’s aristocrats. Aristo-
crats, faughl
How I wish that the parlor pinks, the perfumed socialists, the ministerial
nincompoops, who affect to arise in Christian pulpits and talk about the "beau-
ties of Connunisn", and how Cod’s Chosen People have a divine commission to pro-
ject such suffering for human benefaction and social progress, could have stood
beside ne that bitter night and heard that young wife's sobbing.
For weeks I had ridden through such turmoil. Theiron from many scenes had
entered ne. Indeed I had left the person who was ny youthful writing self up
on the summit of Asnna volcano. Now this weeping young mother touched ne as
nothing had done to date. She was the stricken and prostrate spirit of the real
Russia that was being torn asunder and slowly crucified that a race of predatory
parasites might execute their murderous hatred upon the peoples of the Czar.
God’s Chosen People? Do you really think they ARE? You can excuse ne from such
thinking. I worship the Father to whom Christ prayed in the Carden. And such
a Cod would be *ore'fastidious.
I walked on finally and left her behind ne. I had business in Great Rus-
sia. But the memory of that tableau was a brevet as from Kismet. True, she
was only one wonan out of a million — out of seventy millions — who was facing
liquidation because she was Christian. But for that little moment she was
Motherhood Incarnate. Would that I had the talent to paint on canvass the pic-
ture that she burned on memory.
It was Edmund Burke who first uttered the asininity that one could not
indict a whole people. But I demand to know what the Jewish people are doing
of their own racial volition to put an end to such apostate leadership as pre-
cipitated the horrors I witnessed in Red Russia? On that basis at present I
sweepingly indict the Jews of tho world.
I passed on through that station. The months went by, and I passed on
through Russia. But I could not forget that young mother by the pillar. I
never have forgotten that young mother by the pillar.
Where is she tonight, I wonder? . .
CHAPTER FOUR
APPILY there are times in a person's life when the armor or investiture
r
of spiritual insulation around the mortal coil proves impregnable to the
J assaults of passion, vice, weakness, or horror, as constantly hurled
against it. Tho will conquers all obstructions set before it. The still small
voice supercedes the counsellings of the worldly mighty. The vision of greater
things ever to be done unveils the mystery of the ages: What is the purpose of
it all, and can mortal man discover it?
In a sense of possibilities in the human spirit to rise above all earthly
assault, the still small voice is like a lambent beacon: sometimes it flames
before us in conscious knowledge, sometimes it conveys its light through the
intelligence and utterings of companions, sometimes it is merely a whisper
66
within our own breasts. Then again, and mightiest of all, it is a distinct
and open blazing within our own consciousness, making it possible for us to
recognize factors that would otherwise remain throughout the earthly tenure
in a state of "active quiescence", of sombre insoucifence, unknown to the
multitude.
War can become a series of such blazings,
I had ample time in those days that I subsequently passed, to discern
that there were mightier missions afoot for all of us who had been drawn to-
gether so wierdly in that minor theater of war, than merely ministering to a
physically shattered or hungry soldiery. I had my moments when, spiritually
insulated against the turmoil, the distraction, the suffering about me, I
dimly caught radiant glimpses of the training school of cosmic urgings which
most of us were attending. HThat would we do when we had reached, and passed,
Commencement?
I thought at times, in my own case, that I knew. Then it would slip from
me, like an imperfect imagery remembered forward.
The winter was grim that I now set about to live in the heart of Bolshe-
via. Vyles and I parted company at Irkurtsk. I had other business henceforth
than helping to conduct a Y-cnr, passing out cigarettes and chocolate. He took
the car alone, or at least with Josef, and worked his way down into the Ukraine.
In pursuance of my mission, I became engulfed in that indescribable refugee
horde that was fleeing before the cruelties of Jewish sovietism to the westward,
a Reign of Terror principally projected under the supervision of two hundred
and seventy-six Jews from New York's East Side. Desperately they were striving
to get out of this new Canaan which Jehovah was so generously giving to his
Chosen People, to escape to China, Japan, perhaps to America. The appeals and
the propositionings toward this end that were addressed to me, especially by
Russian gentlewomen, wrought a curious psychology within me, not exactly a
callousness but a purposeful resignation. It had to be purposeful.
I could not walk along any Siberian street in my American uniform with-
out being accosted by these pitiable persons. Women who but two short years
before had been surrounded by luxuries, ministered to by cohorts of servants,
were now eager to follow me to America in any capacity for less than the price
of a cake of sweet chocolate. These were not prostitutes. It was an equation
in psychiatry to observe how far such aristocratic femininity would go to bar-
ter their bodies in order to preserve them. We aided them as we could, but the
country was becoming overrun with millions of them — wives, sisters, sweet-
hearts, separated or torn from Bolshevik-hounded menfolk, searching for beloved
faces and the sound of familiar voices throughout Great Siberia with all the
pathos of Longfellow’s Evangeline after the Golgotha of Arcadia. Again I say,
these were the people — for the Moscow Jews have now butchered most of them —
whom the parlor intellectualists have declared as worthy of their fate, or in-
different to it, being barbarians or savages on principle. Yes, iron entered
into my soul in those months. The free and easy life that I had lived in the
clean and orderly United States, I would never know again. Henceforth the tor-t
nent would always be just under the threshold of my consciousness that I had to
do something about all of it. But what, and when, and where, was beyond my con-
scious naming.
In here •
— in the heart of the country — there was no longer any question
about the Semitic character of Communism, nor was there much talk about the tem-
porary character of the government of the half-Jew, Lenin. On every side now,
anti-Semitism was the hour’s burning topic'among Allied representatives of any
intelligence. In the exact ratio that I had traveled westward into Bolshevia,
I hod been forced to discard my provincialisms in regard to the Jews. These
quasi-oriental commissars, everywhere succeeding to murderous control were a
87
wholly different breed froa the greasy corner tailors and kosher narketmen
I had called sheenies at hone in Massachusetts. I found out, or beheld' from
ny own observation, that no nore fiendish creature exists in human fora than
the Jew when he is given cohorts at his back, and people whoa he fancies to be
his "enemies" — in that they any not like hin — in front of him. If I had
ny choice to be tortured by a Jew or be tortured by a Chinanan, I would choose
the Chinanan. The Chinaman would torture ae because torture was torture. The
Jew would torture ne froa a sadist glee in watching ae suffer. If I tried to
include here some of the Jewish-inspired nutilations that came beneath ny not-
ice — nany of which I photographed — I would put a black page of literary
putridity in this narrative. The splendid Czech officers, every nan of then
o university graduate, were especially vitrolic in their flanings at Jewry.
"Why should you hate Jews so?" I asked a certain major-general in the
Bohemian high connand, as we sat in his snowbound wagon-litz one night on the
edge of the railroad yards.
"Because," he replied in his cultivated voice though his English held an
accent, "we have long since found out in our country what you Americans must
finally cone to recognize, that a deliberate and cleverly executed plot has
long been germinating among the leaders of this peculiar people to bring the
Christian nations under their open control, and this war is but a phase of it."
"I’a beginning to believe it," I conceded. "I thought at first in my
American provincialism that it was only old-world bias when people tried to
tell me."
"This vast war, of which all of us n.re but the Christian victims, has had
many aspects which Jews have not ordered. But the major conflict itself, the
pull and draw of international diplomacy, the subtle controlling interests be-
hind the royal antics of the Hohenzollern dynasty, these trace back to con-
niving Jewish interests permeating the financial, economic, and political con-
trol of the nations of Christendom to weld them together under one Hebraic
super-government. Do you know Disraeli? Eave you read his 'Coniston'?"
"But that was a work of fiction, wasn't it?" This officer was too com-
manding a personage, too patient with ny ignorance, too much of a kindly and
cultured gentleman, for ne to challenge his convictions as racial intolerance.
"Only insofar as his characters applied. He was telling something to a
world of Gentiles, but cleverly employing the fictional form. Disraeli had
one of his characters say most truthfully, 'The world is governed by a far dif-
ferent set of persons than is suspected by those who are not behind the scenes.'
We Bohemians have found out how true his racial boast was."
The gale whined and whistled about the windows of the coach. The flame of
the candle blew flat in the draught as an orderly came in and passed on about
his business. Could it be possible that this worldly wise officer was perform-
ing ne a favor by thus enlightening ne, that instead of always trying to shy
away from such informants as promotors of race prejudice I had better sit sil-
ently and open ny ears? VThy had nearly everyone, from Toisler's surgeon to
this Czech official, consistently expressed themselves as hostile to Jews? It
must be more than merely wanting a scapegoat for the war. Take ny own case.
What had some of the nutilations that I had seen on corpses to do with wanting
a scapegoat for the war? If I had wanted a scapegoat for the war, I night have
used the Germans. But the Germans I was contacting as war prisoners, were fine,
upstanding, patient-faced fellows who no nore approved of this war than I did.
And never could I possibly identify any sort of outrage or sabotage as having
been committed by a German. Always it was some Jewish commissar, some Jewish
official, that was unerringly at the back of the atrocities we confronted.
Facts were facts. What was to be gained by whitewashing them? Lenin was a
Jew, Trotsky was a Jew, the whole mentally diseased rabble in Moscow, causing
88
this ghastly turn-over of the patient people of all Russia, were Jews. The
money of a Jew, Jacob Schiff in New York, was financing it. Jewish agents
were already beginning to swarn over Siberia and adroitly work against any
constructive measures to aid the suffering Russians. 'tfhat they meant to do
was to exterminate the Christians in a stupendous massacre and have this rich
country for themselves, but how coiild we know it then? . . or rather, how
could we accredit it?
"The people of America do not know Jews as we in Europe know them," my
informant went on. "But you will come to it when they have moved sufficient
of their number overseas. They will take over your political government, they
will crowd into your civil and commercial offices, they will overrun your
Jhite House and Washington departments. You will find then dominating your
fraternal lodges and secret societies, preaching the divine right of their race
to stalk through your most hallowed institutions without a word of censure be-
ing raised against them. If you raise it, they will attack you savagely for
being guilty of race prejudice. When it happens, not if it happens, your na-
tion will know a period of suffering like all other nations have done, that
has always forced then to rise up and resort to measures that seem brutal to
rid themselves of that racial pestilence. Remember, my young man, few pogroms
have merely 'happened' . . they come in desperation at what has been inflicted
on the persons who have resorted to them.1
'
There was absence of any rancor in this big Czech's voice. He was dis-
cussing the matter as an equation in academics. Yet what a terrible certainty
he expressed, of the correctness of his statements.
"When I was a boy," he continued, "the plague broke out in our village in
Bohemia. Our people were stricken so fast that we had to bury them where and
as they fell. My own mother and father were among such victims, interred in
trenches by night. Morning after morning our neighbors would behold in horror
that during each night the trenches had been opened, and the bodies of our
loved ones stripped of clothes and jewelry. Again and again we had to bury
the naked bodies of our kinsfolk, because bands of scavanger Jews had worked
on the graves by night and committed such ghoulish a.trocities. Yes, I got my
personal knowledge of the traits in Semitic character early. For Jews will do
such things to Christians. It's all a part of their religion . . 'despoiling
the Egyptians.' Egyptians, remember, are any people who are not Jews. Every-
thing depends upon their fidelity to their Jewishness,"
"But," I protested, "such a.trocities might have been forced from bitter
economic necessity."
"Haven't our Slavic and Nordic races known their periods of 'economic
necessity’? Have you ever heard of them descending to such practices as loot-
ing the corpses of Jewish people felled by pestilence?"
Of course I had no answer. My father, in his ministry, from the days of
the North Prescott pulpit down to the last night I saw him, had accepted and
taught that Hebrews were Cod's Chosen People. It had been a fixation in my
youthful consciousness that many things improper, immoral, or even Satanic for
Christians to do, were blessed and sponsored by the Lord Cod when committed by
Israelites. It had never occurred to me that maybe all of it was subtly prom-
oted racial propaganda, assiduously kept alive for purposes more economic and
political than religious. Had I come a
, bitter trek across central Asia pur-
posely to interview and know this man and have him tell me such perturbing
things with the seal of his authority, character, and prestige behind them?
It was something to think about. Personally I knew I had no personal quarrel
with Jews. Again I say, I remembered them as a peculiarly unclean people who
had occupied a district in the Springfield of my boyhood that we stigmatized
as "Ferry Street" — the city's only slum. Frequently I had to go into Ferry
89
Street to deliver "bundles for my father. I got out as soon as possible because
of the stench from the alleys and doorways. Later, in the tissue-paper business
we had sold extensively to New York Jewish jobbing houses. I recalled one moth-
erly Jewess who had been treasurer of one of these, who had once got me into the
office of her concern and encouraged me to tell her frankly and confidentially
the exact financial status of our business. Her intimation had been strong that
if I would be candid, her associates might be generous in supplying us with cap-
ital to carry our accounts. I knew no Gentile woman of her years and personality
who would ever have solicited me so, and then betrayed my confidence. Among our
kind it simply was not done. Noblesse oblige was too strong. No one had warned
ne that there is no such thing as noblesse oblige among Jews. So I responded in
adolescent trust, particularly in womanhood. Ten days later father had come home
to Fulton, furious that I had visited New York and been so loquacious. "Maybe it
will help you to guard your tongue in future," said he, "to know that we've got
to take a loss of over two hundred dollars a carload on our next shipment to that
firm, just because it discovered our financial weakness and knew we couldn't af-
ford to refuse the business, even for less." I was appalled. The woman was cold
as flint when next I saw her and foolishly made complaint that she had violated
my confidence. I perceived that it was all quite within Hebrew ethics to gain
information by any means or expedient, which helped in more canny buying. That
elderly Jewess doubtless flattered herself that she had turned a clever trick
on a callow Christian youth at the time. But ever thereafter I had looked at
people of her race askance . .
Anyhow, I left the beautiful wagon-litz in which I had visited with the
General and sought my humble freight-car. How could I further ignore or seek
to rationalize this mass of brutal testimony that was engulfing me from every
quarter? How could so many hundreds — yes, thousands — of people all hold
precisely the same bitter views regarding these European and Asiatic Israelites
without there being truth behind their castigations?
I tried to dismiss the matter as thousands of my countrymen do at present,
"Oh well, these are foreign Jews. In the United States they a.re more advanced,
more enlightened, more generally Americanized. I told myself that fighting in
the Allied armies were thousands of Jewish boys. Thousands of Jews must have
been impoverished by the war. Thousands of Jews must have been refugees out of
Prussia, out of Alsace, out of Transylvania. T7ould the leaders of that race
start a war that involved, butchered, or impoverished untold numbers of their
own people? It failed to make sense.
It never occurred to me that indeed they might do exactly that thing, that
this business of "making sense" was my own Christian code at work, doing the
reasoning in such matters . .
I applied myself to gaining information out of other dignitaries. I met
officials in the diplomatic services of other nations. I still cherish the
memory of being present as an American observer at the military ceremonies in
the Irkurtsk station yard when Admiral Kolchak arrived and took formal command
of the ill-fated White Russian forces.
One day I appeared at the American consulate to find two civilians — a
Britisher and a Norwegian — finishing luncheon with the consul. After coffee
in the drawingroom, I was taken aside.
"These two men are commercial couriers for the International Harvester
Company," I wa.s told. "They're carrying three-quarters of a million dollars
with them in czarist currency which they'll transfer to the diplomatic pouches
in Harbin for conveyance to Chicago, ^t's money representing liquidated goods
and properties being saved from the Bolsheviki."
I nodded, wondering what was coming.
"They're continuing their trip eastward in a tepluska that leaves for
90
Harbin tonight, attached to a fifth-class peasant train. The condition of the
country, not to mention the state of their nerves after what they've been
through in their getaway from Moscow, makes it feasible for you to join them
as convoy and companion."
I was only too glad to do this. The sights and scenes that I was behold-
ing daily, the increasing pathos of the refugees, the plight of the residents
in middle Siberia as Jewish agents penetrated everywhere and undermined what
was being accomplished in a constructive manner, were telling on my own nerves.
Again and again I realized that I might have gone through the October revolu-
tion in Moscow myself, so graphic were the accounts of thousands of participants
or eye witnesses milling everywhere around me. I was sickened unto death of
seeing naked, mutilated bodies, of passing through a bloodglut so terrible that
frequently in excursions to hamlets or prison camps off the beaten track, we
would come on half-frozen cattle with udders cut off to mock and starve the
terrorized peasantry. By going eastward I would be retracing my steps toward
Japan, toward San Francisco, toward Vermont. Besides, this particular trip
would enable me to see the territory that is now Manchukuo. I was satiated
with the information I had come thus far to obtain. After weeks and months of
it, a whole summer, autumn, and part of a winter of it, I was fed up on Bolshe-
via, So I made the acquaintance of the two civilians. Because these men are
still alive and important personages in their respective fields, let me call
them merely Smith and Olson.
Smith was a cool-headed, middle-aged, bald-headed Britisher. Olson was
a stocky, sandy-haired, elderly Norwegian whose home was Chicago. They were
men of my own racial strain, however, persons whose psychologies I understood.
We were to be given a Czech orderly for the trip around Baikal. From Baikal
eastward we must fend for ourselves.
A soft snow was falling in early winter twilight when I finally bade
goodbye to friends at the consulate and went to join my new companions. Our
tiny box-car held a sheet-iron stove. A quarter-cord of wood had likewise been
provided. We had canned goods and provisions to fill an Ivory Soap box. For
reading matter, Smith had somewhere snitched an armful of out-of-date magazines.
Tucked securely away inside our khaki shirts were certain officially-sealed
documents for the consul-general at Peking. They would go into the diplomatic
pouches and thus arrive p
.
t the American State Department,
With all the world hushed in the muffling snowfall, I got my baggage over
to the car and presently we started. It was really to become the most torturous
phase of my whole Siberian adventure. The winter cold was settling down in ear-
nest. Siberian snow was a devastating thing in that s\istained low temperatures
allowed no intervals of thawing. Snowfall piled on snowfall. Only the open
bleakness of the steppes kept the drifts from closing the railroad.
Down the Irkurtsk River we slowly creaked our way, the Czech guard dev-
eloping an infested foot from an old bayonet wound that required putting him
off at the first hamlet of size we encountered. So with the first snowy night
behind us, we began the long circle about icing Baikal. During tha.t first
afternoon George Smith let out an exclamation as he reclined in a bunk against
bare timbers. "I say, old topper, there's a chappie of your name got a story
in this magazine. Do you know him, perhaps?"
He had picked up and brought along a copy of that American Magazine that
held my epochal prize-winner, Their Mother. "Ripping!" he exclaimed as he fin-
ished the narrative. He was tho sort of Englishman who would say Ripping! But
there was precious little otherwise to say Ripping about.
A subzero cold swept down from the Arctic. So deadly became the tempera-
ture that whole hours passed when our locomotive could not make steam. Wind-
blown snow would sift through the cracks in our tepluska — the Russian name for
our type of box-car — and build drifts in all corners despite the brilliant
sun. Our fuel gave out. We "began destroying the planks inside the car to keep
ourselves from freezing. At the end of a week we had exhausted our candles
On many a night I heard the wolves of Siberian legend howl indeed, as we lay
narooned on windswept steppes, peasant passengers freezing in cars behind. If
those passengers died, which many of then did, their bodies were simply heaved
out like frozen billets of cordwood in the snowdrifts. The railroad right of
way was increasingly bestrewn with wrecked rolling stocks, whole trains up-
turned on their backs, mercifully snow-covered. Wellenough we knew what the
sights and odors would be, greeting travelers passingin the spring.
For days at a time we went without food. Our provisions were long-since
exhausted — with the single exception of a great Edam cheese. We each too
turns in excavating in this cheese. Without water fir shaving, I was forced to
let ny beard grow. My body lost weight in that monthof privation. By night
we took turns, each of us standing guard while the othertwo slept. An hour’s
slumber was all that we allowed ourselves, then up and at exercise, otherwise
we might sink into the sleep of frozen death.
One night, tortured beyond human endurance by the cold, George paid the
equivilent of $250 in American money for a small box of soft coal from the loco-
motive. He spilled it over his own head and shoulders in handing it up. With
typical British fortitude, back he went for another. He took his life in his
hands to do this, just as we took our lives in our hands by burning it. Siber-
ian engineers and firemen had an unpleasant custom of shooting persons who ap-
proached their cabs and inquiring .about their business afterwards. At any rate,
we got a fire started. Then the starving end freezing peasants in the cars
both fore and aft — most of them Bolshevik-inspired by now — saw the sparks
coming from our stack and were convinced we were hated aristocrats, escaping
into China. Soon they were milling angrily in the curdling darkness outside
our car door, ^t was one of the tightest squeaks — and one of the miracles —
of my life. About the time that they were ready with an ice-encrusted sleeper
to batter down our door and come in after us, and following an all-day halt on
the steppes because the temperature hampered steam-making, . . believe it or
not . . that train moved’ It kept moving all night, .and when dawn came at last
we wore into Manchuria.
To make matters worse, when we came to steppes hamlets where a bite of
food might be purchased, we were hung up for hours and sometimes for days.
Communism was being accepted so literally along the Trans-Siberian that committ-
ees were set up to conduct each train. The engine-cab occupants made up one
committee. Each coach hah its committee. So did the caboose and the workers
in the station. A courier was sent around at intervals to get a consensus of
opinion as to whether or not the train should start, and how far it should trav-
el. Please do not smile. The same Bolshevik Jews could effect similar-arrange-
ments on the Boston & Albany, the llickol-Plate, the Southern Pacific. America
has them — an additional two million of them, I understand, since Hitler asked
them to get out of Germany.
Twenty-six days it required to make that journey. Before the war a
wagon-litz train would have covered it in eight. But the evening came when we
saw the serried lamps of a farflung city ahead, close down along the tops of
the snowdrifts. We rolled in off the steppes — or were blown in by thegale —
to rumble over a lengthy bridge. Olson's jaw dropped . .
"Bah YoveJ" he cried. "It bane Harbin!"
Our eastward journey at last was ended. Our tawdry train, snow-smothered
from caboose to locomotive, whistled at last to a tired halt. George pointed
across the tracks to an illuminated sign.
"The Grand Cafe!" he cackled brassily. "Does that mean food, or is it a
mirage?"
9 2
We were three starved soldiers-of-fortune with three-quarters of a nil-
lion dollars upon us. Lingering only to hire a Japanese sentrynan to guard our
car and have it detached, the Japs "being in control of Manchuria at the nonent,
we stumbled across the station esplanade.
Food! After living for the "better part of a fortnight on the cullings
from a single Eden cheese, . . FOOD! I had not gone fifty pa.ces, however, when
sonething caught ny eye in a Chinese tobacco shop.
"D~Do you s-s-see what I see?1
1 I pointed unsteadily.
In the window of the shop, or at least such portion as was clear of the
hoarfrost, was a single copy of The Japan Advertiser, an English newspaper pub-
lished by a Jew in Tokio. And in screaming headlines across the splash of
eight columns -
-
HINDENBURG ACCEPTS ALLIED TEEMS
World War Officially Ended at Eleven
O'clock this Morning
We stampeded inside to acquire that paper. But three-quarters of a mil-
lion dollars would not buy it. We were, however, permitted to read it.
"Today's the twenty-fifth," cried George. "Boys, this wax's been over,
two weeks!"
The world war ended! Somehow we crossed to the Grand Cafe. We ordered
a meal costing nineteen dollars. Each!
To think that men had been slaughtered in Europe, night and day without
let-up, ever since that day in the Greenfield, Mass, station when I had started
up to Bennington to take that job with Frank Howe!
CHAPTER FIVE
HE WORLD war ended! Four solid years of it!
"Well," said Olson, "Ay tank Ay get stewed."
Whereupon he got stewed as I have never seen man stewed. And pray, why
not? For nearly two months he had been fleeing, traveling, dodging one death
after another — from his getaway in Moscow to this night in Harbin. 0n the
first leg of his journey he told me that he had been locked all night in a
tepluska jammed with so many human beings that one-third had been cast out as
corpses next morning. "One time Ay bane ride forty-eight hour with dead woman
hanging against me so hard that her chin dig in and make bruise on my chest.
People bane sit on hot cylinder boxes of engine to get away. All of it over
now. Yah, Ay tank Ay get stewed."
It consumed three-quarters of an hour forSmithand me to return him to
our box-car after that fifty-seven-dollar repast. ForOlson was pickled! En-
route he wanted to stop and murder every Hebraic-appearing person whom he en-
countered. Storing him away at last in his bunk, we worked to get his shoes
off. During this service to our friend, he suddenly discerned a procession of
rod, white, and blue turkeys with straw-hats on. This was later followed by a
herd of giraffes eating ice-cream cones. He toldus about these curiosa. Then
an overpowering desire obsessed him to kick me in the face.
Why I required to be kicked in the face, he failed to clear up. We had
been the best of companions enroute. With several varieties of mixed drinks
inside of him, however, and his nerves snapping like taut piano-wires now that
the frightful nightmare was ended, the crowning achievement of his Siberian
sojourn was to kick mo in the face. He begged to be allowed to kick me in the
face. He even fought valiantly to kick me in the face. When the tepluska*s
stove and nost of the "bedding was a wreck in consequence, he collapsed and wept
bitterly because, after our four-week companionship, our common dangers van-
quished, our undying friendship cemented by privation, I would not be consider-
ate enough to let him kick me in the face.
I finally compromised by telling him that perhaps with morning, when I
had nicely washed and shaved my face, and he had plenty of daylight by which to
kick it unerringly and amply, then we would both of us consider the kicking of
my face, whereupon he insisted on kissing me, telling me that he had known
from the first that I was a regular fellow, and falling heavily asleep. While
he was asleep, I tidied the car. I discovered to my perturbation that a jar of
strawberry jam which he had filched from the cafe and hurled at me, had lost its
tin cover and emptied its contents into one of his shoes.
I hoped Olson had another pair of shoes but doubted it. I held the shoe
upside down and let the sticky stuff drain out of it. However was he to get
his foot into that shoe with the coming of daylight. Of all out Siberian mis-
adventures, this was the worst. He could not go hopping about Manchuria on
one foot. He night put the shoe on, regardless of the jam, but in such event
there was every possibility that he would never get it off. To make natters
worse, Olson returned to the land of sobriety with a head that was due to ex-
plode at any nonent and scatter his brains all over the orient. Never was a
world so dour as that Manchurian world to which our N0rdic friend awoke. In
due tine, of course, he called for his shoes and I had to show him what had hap-
pened. For several minutes I saw he meant to actualize his prior night*s ob-
session and kick me in the face, "You bane do this on purpose’" he glowered
brackishly.
Whereupon I entered into argument with this strange person. What poss-
ible satisfaction would it give ne to fill a pal's shoe with strawberry jam?
"Jan’s too valuable out here," I snapped, "to waste it on shoes. Before I'd
turn it into anybody's shoes, even yours, I'd eat it*"
He admitted that this made sense. Still, it was the only pair of shoes
he had. And the only way to make it fit for wearing again was to turn it inside
out and wash it. Whereupon we had more argument as to whether or not a human
shoe had ever been turned inside out, and if so, how was it turned back again?
Smith stopped the brilliant business by offering Olson one of the slippers in
his bag, finding an isvoschek, and having Olson driven to a Russian department
store where he got new shoes and other personal appointments. Then we went to
the consulate.
To our gratification •
— for we were sick of traveling — we learned that
the Consul General was on his way up to Harbin from Peking. This would mean
that after seeing him, I could branch off toward Vladivostok and get out to
Tokio. I had not heard from Marion in the weeks of my travels and was anxious
to learn if she had received news from home.
It was a sumptuous wagonlitz that pulled into the Harbin railroad yards
the following morning. It was roomier, more exquisitely appointed than any
private Pullman back in America. It had baths, pantries, individual bedrooms
where feather-beds invited. Most of its upholsteries were wine—red velvet.
Mirrors were everywhere. At last I got a look at my face and began to under-
stand why Olson wished to kick it — weeks of cold and privation had drawn the
flesh across the cheekbones, out of which thrust my eyes in oversize bulges.
Since leaving Japan I had not met a barber who could shear my crop of hair.
Smith had often jibed me, "I say, old chappie, at just what point in your
wanderings did you lose your violin?" Now on the Consul's car I found barber,
bath, and feathers! A bath! For twenty-six days I had not had my clothes off.
I soaked my aching bones in soapsuds, borrowed pajamas in lieu of those I had
given to Gleason, and crawled into a bed that was softer than eider-down.
94
thereupon I relaxed. Knowing that the Consul would remain there a fort-
night, I passed into a cona that lasted twenty hours.
I had tra.veled over seven thousand versts in Siberia. I had net almost
everyone worth meeting. I had explored Siberia in summer, fall, and winter.
Withal I had made the torturous sojoun without suffering a scratch, without
even annexing one specimen of vermin. It was hard to accredit. I arose at last
and dressed in clean linen. For the first tine since leaving Yokohama my uni-
form was pressed and the Chinese lackey had polished shoes and puttees. This
was harder to accredit. I found that I had lost twenty pounds since that day,
seemingly years and years ago, when I had attended the conference in the grey-
stone mansion where despite imminent Bolshevism little Ivan had learned the
fiddle. More significant still, I had new silver at my temples and more sprink-
led through my hair.
Blissful days of apathy followed. The war was ended. Over Harbin and
adjacent Manchuria I idled, exploring the country, watching a score of nation-
alities reacting to a war that had suddenly gone bust. I watched Mongols and
Khirgese working with their monels. I explored Chinese Harbin and bought pres-
ents for the honefolk.
During this interval I tried to make contact with those men who had sent
me to Bolshovia. I sent cables to Marion over at the Igleharts. No word came
from either. So back to the tepluska 1 went with my companions and the morning
came to hand when the Consul himself cane down to say goodbye. As we reached
down to shake his hand in farewell, he called one cryptic utterance —
"You’ll never know, Pelley, what you’ve done for your countryl Goodbye,
and goodluckl"
What had he meant? What had been in those long official envelope, sealed
with red wax? After all, did it matter?
Ten more days of freight-car transportation brought me once more to Vlad-
ivostok. In a sort of stupefaction I beheld the city now. Street cars were run-
ning, electric lights were brilliant. The length of Maltcskya was as smooth as
Fifth Avenue back in New York. I sought out the new and enlarged headquarters
of the Y, staffed now with utter strangers obsessed with one idea: to close up
and get home. The war was over, wasn’t it? Why need anybody stay? I finally
located the missionary who had brought me up the blankets. I said —
"What about those plans for Americanizing Russia?"
"Search me," he shrugged.
"Where are the big shots who sent me on this Odessy?"
"So-and-so’s dead. The typhus got him. The rest? Gone back to New
York, or they went in-country just after you did, and have never been heard
from."
"What about all the information and pictures I’ve brought out? What
about Y ’s all the way to Moscow?"
"Nuts’
. It’s a
. bust. You see, now the war’s over, everyone’s had plenty.
Furthermore, this country’s going Bolshevik, and all hell can’t stop it. That
means they’ll close every church and kick out every Christian. Believe me, Gen-
tiles are out o’ luck in this God-forsaken nation. It’s the new Land o’ Canaan.
Watch the Israelites wreck it. The sooner we get out, the better for all of us."
"Then I’ve had my trip for nothing!"
"You’ve had the experience. Whatta you beefing about?"
"I’ll say I’ve had experience."
"Then you’re all to the mustard. Why do any worrying? The Japs are go-
ing to make an issue out of some of this country, if I don't miss my guess.
Kolchak's been sold out by the French and I hear he’s been killed. The Czechs
are going home and so are the Yanks. Lord, we’re all going home. It’s a ques-
tion how long the Y can stay open."
95
"Then," I said aimlessly, "I_ night as well go hone.n
"You "bet. Slciddaddle! To put that 7-scheme over, granted the Jews
would let us do it, would take several million dollars. And the suckers hack
home aren’t interested in more Drives. The whole show's gone flooie and they
want to forget it."
"Say," I asked finally, pausing at the door, "whenever did they find
time or materials to pave Vladivostok?"
"Pave it? Applesauce. They simply shoveled the dirt out. Under the
depth of refuse and dead hogs, they discovered the city was beautifully paved
alreadyl . . "
That night I was lucky. I got me a berth on the Penza sailing at six
o’clock far Tsuruga.
JAPAN againI
J Me.rion net me at the station. Nothing important had transpired in my
absence. She had got herself a job — put in the tine teaching English to a
class of Japanese boys on the Compound. No, she hadn’t heard from hone, not a
single word.
Arrived at the Compound, put to bed in a cool quiet room at the Iglehart’s,
the war all a nightmare, I suddenly cracked.
My nerves went to pieces with the need for tension gone. I was sick for
a week. They called it the flu, I knew it was plain, old-fashioned reaction.
The first evening that I cane downstairs after my convalescence, we were
sitting around the missionary’s dinner-table, discussing the boats that we might
take to Shanghai. We had been away six months, with six months still to go.
Suddenly the bell rang. The Japanese chit-boy was bringing the mail.
Word from home at last — at least for the Igle'narts. For six months
the censorship had obstructed correspondence. The Japanese had an effective
way of censoring ma.il, especially English-written correspondence, which they
could not make out. They simply burned it and that was the end of it. Now
with the war suspended, mail could be resumed. Yes there was one newspaper for
us. Marion tore it open.
At the shock which paled her face, I went around the table.
The paper had come from Greenfield, Massachusetts, five weeks before.
From the center of the front page, Ernest’s face looked out at us.
Marion whispered woodenly, "M-My brother is . . d-deadl"
We read the tragic story. Shortly after our departure, Ernest had. en-
listed and gone to Camp Devens. He had been among the first to die of the flu.
Already he was five weeks cold in his grave. How could we believe it? The week
before we had loft St. Johnsbury we had enjoyed a farewell outing together, fish-
ing on Lake Willoughby. I picked up the wrapper, discarded on the table.
"It’s in Mother Holbrook’s handwriting, and yet it's from Greenfield!
Then she and Adelaide have gone back to New England’"
Marion scarcely wept. She was not the weeping kind. With astounding
self-composure she merely whispered . . poignantly . .
"I wish we could g-go home!"
Yes, I wished it, too. I was sick of the sights and the smells of Asia.
I longed with a bittersweet longing to step up to a stranger on the street end
address him in a tongue that he readily understood. I longed to go into a white-
tiled American bathroom and know the liquid music of a sanitary closet-flush.
More than all else, I revolted at continuing this so-called "survey" of foreign
missions when I honestly felt that I could not endorse them. I had no assurance
that China or India would be any different. Missionaries were missionaries.
The Missionary Blunder was the missionary blunder. I said, "We can go home!
I’ll give Taylor back his money — the part we haven’t spent."
96
My wife looked across at ne with more tremor on her lip* "Let's g-go,"
she hegged softly.
I was in that state of mind where I wanted to get hone. My portfolios
were crammed with data, I had gathered enough material to keep me two years
writing. But more than all else, down deep in my heart, I had the suspicion
that in the years to cone I was not to he concerned with China or India. Japan
and Russia, Manchuria, Manchukuo, somehow or other these I should he familiar
with — to deal in coning problems of racial internationalism. Dr. Taylor,
Bishop Fisher, Secretary Phelps, had been hut cosmic instruments to transfer
me out into this exotic eastern world and give ne an education for quite other
purposes than promoting religious missions. At length our host cane hack from
the telephone,
"The Siberia Maru sails for San Francisco next Monday at four. The
missionary shipping agent says he can hook you passage if you care to take an
inside stateroom."
"I'd take the boiler-room," I growled, "the way I feel this moment."
The farewell parties which the Tokio American colony gave us that week
were pleasant and gracious, hut I wanted to he gone. Mrs. Carl Akernann, wife
of the New York Tines correspondent gave us a dinner at the Imperial. George
Smith's wife, who had been in Japan, gave another at the Grand. Thereat, the
last I saw of George Smith was a wave of his hat at three o'clock of that Mon-
day that followed when after a two-minute blast of the Siberia Maru's whistle
I looked down on the crowd as we floated from the dock,
"Throe cheers for the Anericanski Limited!" I heard Smith's voice roach
ne — my last poignant reminder of the twenty-six day journey we had taken to-
gether in that arctic freight-train. I turned to Marion and said —
"When it comes to a buddy who sticks with you through hell, give me a
bloomin' Englishman, every time!"
We were headed homeward . . .
(
'
■
'
"
.
I
T
T past the sampans with the leg-o'-mutton sails, out past the long run of
chalk-white beach and the last light-houses, the Siberia made her way. She
dropped her pilot and the last letters. Then she took a deep sigh for the
grizzled Pacific and hastened into its vasty embrace.
We had already despatched a cable to Mother Holbrook offering our con-
dolences and announcing our return. But before we saw the shorelines of God's
beautiful America, we must live for three weeks with our now ship acquaintances.
Under the circumstances, the delay was execrable.
Poor Marion! There was no flitting about the ship's decks now. She was
the one who passed her hours in a steamer-chair, sending sad thoughts on the
furls of the stack-smoke. I did not want to work on my data. The Orient,
Japan, Bolshevia, were too horridly close. And yet I needed something to occupy
my mind.
The second afternoon, in our stateroom, I was rummaging through my lug-
gage when from the folds of my uniform there fell a tattered magazine, *t was
that American Magazine I had salvaged from George Smith, that issue containing
my story Their Mother.
One noontime in New York I had gone to lunch with John S. Phillips,
fiction consultant for The Crowell Publishing Company. "When you get around
to nakipg that short story into a book-length novel," he had told me, "I believe
you'll have a knock-out.
"I'm going to spend this sea voyage making Their Mother into a book-lengtx
story," I told Marion.
"Splendid," die responded.
When the lights of Telegraph Hill hove in sight, three weeks later, the
manuscript was finished. Such was the genesis of my first book, The Greater
Glory.
97
CHAPTER SIX
Py UT somehow, when I got into San Prancisco, into a cross-country Pullman,
p, into Massachusetts, and up to Greenfield, things were not quite the same.
— ^ America was "beautiful — in its cleanness, its orderliness. But I had
seen what I had seen. Suppose Bolshevia ever stalked this land of freedom,
sanitation, prosperity! The thought of it sickened me. What protection of
Knowledge, to keep them out of it, did my fellowmen have? Bolshevia was to
them an academic Something that had happened to a land of quasi-barbarians up
in the vicinity of the arctic circle — and over on the earth's other side at
that. The picture of that young Russian mother in the Irkurtsk station, sobbing
in the midnight for no one to see, persistently came back to me. Had God Him-
self chosen me for an instrument, sent me afar on the other side the earth, to
see that America was defended and protected? What else could I think?
Oh I know all about what your clever psychologists say concerning theo-
phanies. Pirst the curiosity, then the wonderment, then the brooding, then the
flashing inspiration that perhaps the task that loons is one's own. Time would
tell, . . tine would tell! . .
Adelaide had grown somewhat and greeted us lustily. But the shadow of
her heroic bereavement lay in Mother Holbrook's eyes.
"You'd better go up to your newspaper in Vermont," she told me evasively
when our welcoming was done with. "Prom reports that've reached me, it's prac-
tically bankrupt."
"Bankrupt!" I echoed.
"I think it's still publishing. But my advice is, take a good lawyer
along when you go up to see it,"
I called my lawyer-friend "Bob" Healy in Bennington — the same Robert
Healy later so prominent in Roosevelt's Securities Commission. He agreed to
join me in St. Johnsbury tho ensuing noon. At half-past four in the morning
I stepped from the sleeper unto the familiar St. Johnsbury platform
It was the sane old town. Nothing had been changed but the posters on
the billboards. It was difficult to accredit that it had been pursuing the even
tenor of its way through all the weeks that I had been tramping Japan, exploring
Bolshevia, idling about Harbin and sleeping on the consul-general's feathers.
I climbed Central Avenue hill and approached the office of my paper. A night-
lamp was burning inside above the press. All through those hectic months abroad
I had been carrying my office-keys as an amulet. I found the right key and un-
locked the office door.
The familiar scent of warmly-heated printing ink assailed me. I closed
the door and glanced about. I wanted to weep!
What an atrocious mess'. Papered litter choked desks and cabinets. The
furniture was battered and shoved about carelessly. The neat and shining office
which I had quitted to walk out to my Hudson and ride my women westward, was
barked and bedaubed, cluttered and nondescript. I took down a bound file of cop-
ies and bore them to the light. I turned over issue after issue of back numbers
to discover what had been printed for a paper in my .absence.
The sprightly Evening Caledonian had degenerated into a tawdry four-page
sheet, mostly filled with boiler-plate. There were two or three columns of ad-
vertisements set in blacksmith Composition, lost amid cooking recipes,bedtime
stories, pointless jokes, and how to make furniture out of old barrels and creton
The editorial page had vanished. The headlines were terrible.
Arthur Stone, one of the men to whom I had sold a half-interest before my
departure, unlocked the street-door — or tried to do so — as I was thumbing
through the ledgers from the safe. Discovering it unfastened, he cane in to con-
front me, "Oh, . . you're back!" he cried, astounded.
M
ad
"Yes, I'n back," I answered bitterly.
"Thought you’d planned to stay away a year?"
"I had the hunch to cone back. How are things going?"
"We'll talk about that later."
Arthur was a professorial little nan in a grey Van Dyke. His family had
formerly owned the paper as a Weekly. Now to ny amazement he picked up the led-
gers, shoved then in the safe, and spun the combination.
I said, "What's the natter with you?"
"I think, before you touch anything here, you'd best to have a session
with ny attorney, Squire Dennett."
"I still say, what's the natter with you?"
"We've got to get the title to this paper straightened out. You left ne
here with too nany bills to pay, too nany notes to neet. Then Gilpin walked out
on ne and went hone to Barton. My wife and I have carried on till you cane back.)'
"Oh, your wife!" The lady in question was not unknown to ne. . "How nuch
do you owe?"
"Plenty," said Stone dryly.
"So — you couldn't carry on?"
"You can tell that to Dennett." He was frankly, openly hostile, had
gunned up ny property, and for some weird reason was holding ne responsible.
I departed the office and got a hotel room. Until Healy arrived, I kept
out of sight. If Stone had involved the project in litigation — or neant to do
so — I had no intention of being ny own attorney with a fool for a client.
It was well that I did so,
Healy was delayed until night, however. He got off the six o'clock train,
cane to the St. Jolonsbury House, and we went in to supper. I said, "Well, Bob,
it looks like they've lost the ten grand a ;
,
ear the paper was making when I left
and gone into debt another twenty beside."
"How could they do that on a little country daily?"
"Nothing eats up money faster," I told Healy, "than any sort of paper —
whon it starts into the 'red'."
A bellhop came over a.nd whispered at ny shoulder, "Sheriff Garfield wants
to see you, out in the lobby."
"You stay here, Bill," ny lawyer directed. "I'n not having hin serve you
with papers till I find out what's doing."
It was nearly an hour before Healy rejoined ne — in ny roon.
"You did a brainy thing," he laughed, "having ne cone here with you. I've
just talked then out of locking you in jail."
"JAIL!" I cried, aghast.
"Yeah. Searles, the lawyor for one of the creditors, had sworn out a
warrant for your arrest. He figured that the minute you saw how things were,
youhturn right around arid get out of the State."
"What does he think I an?"
"Well, that's his way."
"But I've only just got here. Wiry should I run?"
"He thinks you'd .make yourself an absconding debtor, soncthing of the
sort,"
"But I haven't absconded anywhere. And neither shall I do so. I mean to
stay right here and pull this paper fron its hole."
"You'll work niracles if you do. It owes enough bills to paper a roon.
And I've also learned fron Dennett that the only way Stone will relinquish so
that you can do anything to fix it, is to pay hin back what he gave you in June."
"Well of all the rotten breaks!"
"Stone's dropped a lot of jack. He didn't have the sprawl to nake the
paper pay,"
99
It was an anazing proposition to which I now listened.
The paper had begun to lose prestige within a fortnight of ay absence.
One by one its features had been dropped, its nake-up grown sloppy, and its
news reports perfunctory, Advertisers had sensed the loss of public interest.
The night that so important a personage as Theodore Roosevelt died, The Caledon-
ian had carried the story under a single-line heading — not much different fron
heading up a item about somebody leaving a pair of rubbers in the library.
Such “journalism" was insufferable. And the blanket alibi for all this
slipshod work had been, “Wait till Pelley gets back! . . Pelley111 fix every-
thing! , . Pelley *11 pay the bills!1
1 Now Policy was back. Six months ahead
of time. But both Stone and Gilpin were part owners and they would not sur-
render until I redeemed their jeopardized investments.
Giving them their money might have been easy, even with my finances de-
pleted after the money spent to take Marion to Japan, but now a battery of local
creditors, of every kind and description, all bore down on me and wanted their
money at once. In addition, it would require considerable capital to renovate
the plant and carry paper bills and wages till superhuman management had turned
the financial wheels over and got current receipts flowing in profitably. Then
too, I had a disrupted and shelterless family.
I must make ny peace with Stone and Gilpin, negotiate with disgruntled
creditors, produce a metamorphosed newspaper, acquire a hone for ny family, see
to it that our goods were transferred upstate into it. This all cane at once.
Yet the stress did not ond there. The Methodist Board of Foreign Missions at
once wanted reams and reams of stories dashed off about ny experiences in the
Orient — * whopping big stories that would persuade the honefolks how well for-
eign missions were doing, how converting the heathen to Methodism, or Congrega-
tionalism, or Presbyterianism, was only a natter of decades at the nost. And a
half-dozen of ny former magazine editors were reminding me that I had promised
them certain fiction stories before ny departure and never delivered then. One
head, one pair of hands, and only eighteen hours in any one day, must encompass
these labors.
It was excellent experience. I took stock of ny assets and quickly per-
ceived that whatever liquid moneys I then possessed must be conserved for immed-
iate working funds or domestic expenses. That meant that I must treat with
Stone and Gilpin on a
. basis of notes. They did not like this, and started a
shindy. Why should I not return then a fat ten thousand dollars — plus inter-
est on those funds for the tine I had been away — and save then utterly harm-
less!
I had ny own ideas as to why I should not do so. But I felt an obliga-
tion to loyal creditors who had carried the paper awaiting ny return, ^t was
a hectic two weeks that Healy spent with me. I discovered that St. Johnsbury
contained provincial persons who had acquired a certain hostility against ne
fron the very nature of my success up to ny leave-taking. The lawyer, Searles,
was especially venomous, "We'll show that dan1 Pelley that he's not half so
smart as he'd like to think he is. The very idea, editing a paper by sashaying
to foreign parts!” Nevertheless, a majority of the town was with ne, and I knew
it. I could afford to be generous with the brainstrapped element. Squire Den-
net, a loan old Scotsman and a local Vermont “character”, proved to be as friend-
ly to ne as he was to his client. I signed a series of notes to Stone and Gil-
pin to run for a period of years. I transferred our household goods to a com-
fortable old residence on the River Road to the south of town. With the first
issue of The Caledonian after ny resumed management, the town had a paper again,
and knew it. Life’s Dreary Path soon had St, Johnsbury chuckling again, night
upon night. To recoup ny circulation I did another significant thing: I ran
the manuscript of The Greater Glory serially. Whereupon I faced Dr. Taylor and
100
the Methodist Centenary.. One Sabbath afternoon I sat down at my typewriter
and wrote a long and earnest letter to Dr. Taylor. For his perusal only, I
told him the Truth. I ended by describing my financial predicament of the
moment, yet offering to return the funds he had been instrumental in provid-
ing for the trip, as soon as the paper's most pressing creditors were satis-
fied. I shall never forget the answer that came back. I cherished it for
years. More than ever it convinced me that some influence higher than the
Methodist Church or the Rockefeller Foundation had had its finger in the busi-
ness of transporting me out into war-torn Asia . .
"I understand your letter perfectly," this kindly Christian nobleman
responded. "If what you have said is the way you honestly feel about foreign
missions, I stand by my original proposal and there is no more to be sa,id,
as for the money involved, please understand that it does not have to be re-
funded. The essence of the Methodist Centenary Movement is bigger than that,
It is primarily engaged in building Men — whether in Asia or America makes
no real difference. Personally I feel that in selecting you to go out on that
survey, we were building for long years. You have come back equipped with a
wealth of enlightenment, wisdom, and practical knowledge about conditions in
the East. All of it cannot help but make you a better American, a more effi-
cient Christian, for having received it. In the years to come we shall get
our compensation indirectly, for you will make a contribution of worth to all
society as the logical outcome of all that you saw, heard, or experienced.
We are happy to have been the instruments for thus advancing your career. As
for your letter, a man of real integrity could not have written me less. See
to it that the same integrity keeps with you in all of your future sociological
and literary accomplishments."
I wiped tears from my eyes in laying that letter aside. Only a man who
was Big could have written it. He had, by that bigness, put me under an obli-
gation to his church and my country that surpassed by millions any sums he had
advanced me. Furthermore, he had by the writing on a single sheet of white
paper, compensated for all the little ja,ckdaws and harpies of provincial men
who were making it so difficult for me to meet my Vermont obligations. So
long as there were still men of Dr. Earl S. Taylor's calibre in the world,
what did the small fry matter?
A handful of years later this estimable gentleman's health had broken
and he was forced to exile himself out in the Arizona climate. Whereupon,
succeeding to devastating influence in that great Protestant church wdiich my
father had served, under whose wing I had been brought to manhood, and which
had finally conceived so ennobling a thing as the Centenary Movement and per-
mitted me a part in it, came individuals of the stripe of Harry F. Ward, preach-
ing the tenets of atheistic Jewish Communism — contact with which pestilence
was changing my whole life. Out of The Methodist Publishing House, out of
150 Fifth Avenue and the missionary machinery both at home and abroad which it
represented, out of this great Christian church as a church, poured forth
doctrines of subtle subversion, the emasculation of virile patriotism — in
the name of Christian "peace", social disruption and adolescent sedition.
Most of this radico.l propaganda, I was later to learn, was prepared by this
Ward on his foreign trips, much of his time being spent in a retreat in the
Ural Mountains of Bolshevist Russia. So bald and brash were many of Ward's
preachments, so apostate and prostitutional of all that men like Dr. Earl S.
Taylor had formerly stood for — not to mention my own father — that even
conferences of Methodist bishops in various parts of America were to rise in
revolt. A Jew named Nathan Strauss was to present a "gift" of $75,000 to the
Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America and on money so received the
program of general Protestant mischief was to go forward. But it was to be
ten to fifteen years yet before the significance of such mischief was to come
101
to me I feel that touay 1 aa repaying Dr. Taylor for whet he did for me in
uy jouuber years, by fi^atin^, his successors and their Jewish sponsors tooth
and claw. Perhaps that is ay true purpose in having &one out to the Orient —
aoing sucn truly effective missionary work right here at home.
"
r
'E
u
. SULGISR of 1919 now came on apace, With it came the ainor panic that accom-
J panied tne war’s coaaercial liquidation. Inis was a quandary wnicn a
. man
witu my handicap mignt expect a real contest to surmount. Mercnants curtailed
tneir advertising from bitter necessity, St. Johnsbury’s factories laid off
tueir hands. Ine only way that I could keep up the financial program I hod set
for myself, ond save the Caledonian in spite of everything, was to turn back to
my fiction.
Evening after evening — following days that were crammed with effort to
pay off Stone's losses, cover expenses, and meet my funded obligations as I was
able — I drew forth my typewriter and sought to write shert stories. Through-
out that spring and summer I applied myself eighteen hours a day, took no re-
creation and did not want any, did mechanical work in the office to save wages,
and fought with everything that was in me to meet the exactions of that minor
depression. Now and then I sold a story. Usually the cheque was spent long
before it was received. The newspaper's creditors got most of this money.
When matters became inhumanly difficult — the lawyer Searles setting himself
to see that they were kept as much that way as possible — I met with a true
friend in need, another St. Johnsbury lawyer, one Samuel W, Richardson. A
wreath here for Sam. He proved to be another Golden Soul who kept my faith in
human na.ture wholesome. With unaccountable fervor he threw himself into the
job of helping me make order out of The Caledonian's affairs. Again and again
he stood between me and impatient creditors who would have foreclosed and sold
the enterprise before I had it fully resuscitated. Whereupon Searles busied
himself outside of his law office, canvassing other creditors, seeking to have
them assign their accounts to him personally, that he might foreclose on me
himself. On one occasion, a
, hardware merchant najned Peck nearly kicked Searles
from his store. One Goodrich, a plumber now gathered to his fathers, did sue
me for payment of a furnace which he had installed on trial in my house. The
thing failed to work and I requested him to live up to his agreement and remove
it, Searles handled this suit with relish and eclat. When he lost his case in
the courts, Searles and Goodrich made it their business to buy the mortgage on
my property, serving notice on me that unless I kept the faulty contraption
and paid for it in full, I would suffer to see our bedsteads in the street.
The world contains people such as these — as it also h^lds people like
the Taylors and the Richardsons just to balance .up.
That infamous suit of Goodrich's, however, gave some smaller creditors
gooseflesh. It was nip and tuck for months to see if I could bestthe situation
into which I had returned. Throughout this grim period, nevertheless. I found
time to get a.bout Vermont and make public addresses on conditions in the Far
East and our relations as a nation with Japan and Bolshevia., My predicament
was curious. If I had cared to give proper time and attention to my story-
work, I might have been back on my feet financially in a matter of months. But
if I did give such time and attention to story-work, there would be very little
time left in which to run The Caledonian. Day unto day, issue on issue, it re-
quired all my best efforts to keep it up to standard. One more slump, after
the hijinks that I felt Bigelow a.nd St<"ne had played with the property, and St.
Johnsbury folk would have been ready to bury that paper without prayers or
flowers. So long as I gave everything I had to that poor ailing daily, I could
more th!
-n hold my own. But that meant chiseled hours and a tired brain for the
production of high-priced fiction. One day in New York I took Karl Harriman,
102
editor of The Bed Book, into my confidence.
"Sell the danged thing, Bill," he advised me. "What do you want of a
sickly country newspaper up near the Canada line when you can write fiction
that brings you the sums you can command?"
"It's a matter of pride, Karl. After all, I did go away to Asia and
leave it in the hands of strangers."
"You went away on a sort of public duty. And while you were away, you
got into the war. Two men who stayed at hone made hash of your enterprise and
now you're the goat. I don't see it at all. Can't you get somebody to run it
for you?"
"Not at the price that the project can afford."
"See here, Bill," he suddenly exclaimed, "are you feeling all right?"
"'.That do you mean, feeling all right?"
"You're either overworked or you've got something gnawing at you inside.
What's the matter with you, anyhow?"
"It's hard to explain, Karl," I remember telling him. "Life's suddenly
a serious proposition with me. I sa.w a lot of things in the Orient . . up in
Bolshevia . . that have sort of changed my viewpoint."
"You need a rest!"
"It's not exactly a rest that I need. For the first time in my life,
Karl, I'm not sure of myself."
"Not sure of yourself? Just how?"
"Ever since I was a boy I've worked — plenty hard. But it's always
been for myself. You know what I mean, in the hope of private gain. In the
factory with dad I was going to moke a lot of money. Then I got married and
went into the newspaper business. I wanted to show my wife I could do it.
Next I went in for writing fiction. I was working to make a name for myself."
"You have made a
. name for yourself!"
"I know it. And it doesn't mean a thing. Neither did the money I made
in the factory."
"I don't think I get you."
"There's a deeper reason than any of us recognize, why I went out to
Asia. God Almighty took me by the scruff of the neck and said to me, 'Look
here, you! There's a lot of things in the world that you don't know yet. Up
till now you've sort of played around. Well, playing around may be all right
up to a certain point. Now it's time that you took stock of yourself and ap-
plied yourself to other pursuits than those which merely advance your selfish
interests.'"
"War got you, eh?"
"It wasn't exactly the war that got me. Put it rather that the war
to ke me up. It nay jolt you, Karl, but I'm not altogether sure that writing
fiction is my whole life-work. I've been thirty years preparing for something.
That's all it's been — just preparation."
"You'd be a fool to throw up your writing."
I shrugged my shoulders. What I wanted to tell him was too deep for
words. I was not certain that I knew it myself. A yeast wa.s working inside
me. Sooner or later I would make a Big Change.
"I'm not going to throw up my writing — at least not just yet. But
writing stories to entertain people is not a nan's job."
"I still say you need a good rest. Sell your danged newspaper and go
off somewhere all by yourself. Drift around a bit. See yourself in perspec-
tive. You know, men can have a
. change-of-life period exactly like women. Per-
haps yours is coning early because you matured early. Don't let it get you."
I gave this counsel the attention it merited. Back hone in Vermont a
fortnight la.ter I said to Marion, "I'm going to smash this stalemate,"
103
"Now what?" she demanded. The conjugal worry was quick in her eye,
"I’m selling the paper."
"Selling it! Who's buying it?"
"A fellow named Smith — though he doesn't know it yet. He's driving up
here from Boston with his wife and baby, Sunday."
"Has he got any money7"
"I don'r care about that. If I don't get a
. rest — change into something
I can do with enthusiasm •
— I'm going to crack up. Somebody else can have this
treadmill. Anyhow, I've brought back the paper to the point where all the cred-
itors are saved from loss."
"If you sell The Caledonian, then what'll you do? Start gallivanting
around .again, spending all you make?"
"Marion," I sa.id, "I'm suddenly tired — ■ clean down to my heels. All
of a sudden I'm losing interest in life. I'm losing my enthusiasm, losing my
incentive. I can't go on like this. Sometimes I feel as though I'd never re-
covered from that spell of flu that I had in Tokio, I want to look forward
to something, to build for the sake of building, . , no, that's not exactly it,
I want to build toward something that's bigger than t am, something that's big-
ger than my private life and affairs — "
"Why not control ybur delidate feelings," the wife of my bosom suggested,
"and build The Caledonian?"
"Because I've built the Caledonian as big as it'll ever be. I can't get
more readers for it than there are people in the territory. I can't get adver*
tisenents from stores that don't exist."
"You could hold down to a steady grind of continuous publication."
"But why should I do that?"
"Because it's the only way to make a success of what you've started."
"Then Success means, never stopping after you've started a thing? Is
tha.t it?"
"Just the minute you get things nicely settled, and running smoothly,
you must suddenly tear everything up and do something else."
"You don't catch the spirit of what I'm telling you, at all."
"No, perhaps I don’t. What is this 'spirit' that I should catch?"
"That the only difference between a rut and a grave is, that the rut
is longer. How'd you like to live in New York?"
"Another change’" My wife dropped her head wearily on her wrists among
the dishes of the supper ta.blo.
"Marion, we just don't see life alike. We probably never shall."
I left the house for an evening walk. I had no desire to quarrel with
Marion. But somehow, in the thirtieth year of my age I \
7
a
.
s harrowed as I had
never been harrowed. Old forms and fancies were dropping away . .
The Smiths arrived, inspected town and newspaper project, decided that
The Evening Caledonian was exactly the property for which they were searching,
and .agreed to buy it.
I closed my deal with Smith.
"What about the balance of the notes?" cried Arthur Stone, meeting me
one day on the street.
I said, "I'll settle your blankity-blajik notes when I get blaukity-
blank good and ready!" I affirm I used such language.
I went to New York, reported this change in ny affairs to Harriman,
wrote him several stories at exceeding comfortable profit to myself. Then I
did a strange thing, not to be explained until eight years after.
One noontime I packed my baggage at the New Yofk hotel where I had been
staying, went to the bank and transferred funds to Marion in Vermont, put more
money in my own wallet, and sought out the Pennsylvania Station.
104
a£
;ent.
"One hundred and forty-five dollars," he responded.
"Fix one up for me."
Where was I going? I scarcely knew — consciously. Vaguely I did not
care. I seemed to he suffering from a variety of spiritual shell-shock.
I was really going down, down, . . toward the bottom of my current nine-
year cycle . . .
" H o w m u c h d o e s a t i c k e t f o r S a n F r a n c i s c o c o s t ? " I a s k e d t h e P u l l m a n
San Francisco. In San Francisco was published The Sunset Magazine.
I had done several articles for The Sunset Magazine after my return from the
Orient. The Japanese problem was a burning issue on the Pacific Coast. I
felt that if I made the trip to California and talked personally with Charles
Field, the editor, I might produce a different kind of material for that pub-
lication — sotting forth the situation with the Japanese in a way that might
contribute to constructive statesmanship.
Also, this wa.s part of the Pattern that wa.s weaving: I had received
several letters from a
. newspaper woman living in San Francisco, soliciting
me to collaborate with her on a series of stories for which she had the mater-
ial but not the plot technique nor the literary prestige to find entrant to the
national magazines. This sort of thing is a daily occurrence in any author’s
mail. But when this woman went further and sketched the exact nature of what
she wanted to produce, I decided she had something that wa.s worth my attention.
Being an aviatrix herself, she wanted to see a series of yarns written on the
more romantic side of aviation. Here was a rich mine of new material. Also
it meant a practical education in flying for me — something new to be learned -
and a chance to get a new grip on myself, to try to see myself in the perspec-
tive that Karl Harriman had suggested.
Of course, collaborating with a woman in my current unrest was a danger-
ous proposition — •unless she had a hare lip, crossed eyes, and walked on crutch
es. But again it seemed that an overpowered engine beneath the hood of my
physical cha.ssis was driving me forward. I could no more have avoided going to
Sam Francisco at this unseemly period of my lifo than I could have avoided my
trip to the Orient, or up to Bolshevia. It so ensued, therefore, that arriving
in Sam Francisco on a Sunday twilight and not being able to see Field until
next morning, I called Lillian on the telephone.
"Come up to my apartment," she presently invited. "I had a clairvoyant
feeling you’d arrive tonight."
I found the place in a smart section of commercial San Francisco. When
I stepped from the lift, she was waiting in the corridor.
"How do you do?" was her matter of fact greeting, offering me her hand
in a gracious nonchalance. Emphatically she did not have a hare lip, crossed
eyes, or walk on crutches.
I found myself the Sunday evening guestof a strong-bodied, up-standing
blond girl of some thirty summers — why is itso customary to reckon women’s
rages by summers and not springs, autumns, or winters? — with a
. characterful
face, a
. strangely penetrating eye, a disconcerting poise, and the type of mind
that clicked like a machine. A trace of the exotic lingered in her personality
from her Russian extraction. Here was a womanof the world, astute, exquisitely
bred, prematurely ripened by caloric experience, yet by no means "designing"
in the accepted romantic sense. She conducted me into a small but modish apart-
CHAPTER SEVEN
ANDERLUST was not exactly the sole motivation for this departure for
105
nent and a
. moment later shut the door on the world. I had put on ny dinner-
suit to cell on her, and her first renark toned the friendship which ensued:
"Why'd you consider it necessary to wear those things? We don’t need
to start off on a Tuxedo ba.sis, I hope. Sit down and relax. You seen all
fussed up,”
I sat down with an End-of-the-Trail feeling that befuddled ne worse.
It was noro than the termination of a
. three-thousand-nile train journey; I
had traveled that three thousand niles to meet this woman for a purpose. Ex-
actly what purpose, I could not have said. I had no prescient sense of devel-
oping any romance with her. She sat herself carelessly in an opposite chair.
She was wearing an artist’s snock over a house-dress and her luxuriant blond
hair was knotted loosely on her neck.
"How tell me," she asked coolly, when conventional remarks about my
trip had been dismissed, "what's the matter with you?"
It was Karl Harriman’s question, and I jolted. "What makes you think
there's anything the natter with me?"
"Because you can't put pen to paper without shrieking it hysterically."
"What do I shriek?"
"Well, not to boat about the bush, or use a thee-tric metaphor, that
you're an eagle in a well, wrecking beautiful wings struggling to get out.
What's got you in a well?"
What answer could I make without sounding mawkish? This woman was a
stranger to ne, and yet , . not a stranger. I said, "The war did something
to ne . . unleashed something in me . . I feel that I've got some sort of im-
portant job to do, but I can't identify it, much less get into it."
"But don't you see? . , you and I can't get anywhere, in a writing way
or any other way, till you escape from your well and get up into Golden Moments
where you can Ely. Something's got you all snarled up. I've sensed it in your
writings, I've sensed it in your letters. Hovr old are you?"
"Thirty years old. What difference does it make?"
"You're not old enough to have gotten sidetracked."
I bantered, "Don't you want to know how many rabbits I had when a boy
or what particular dish my father liked to have cooked for him when he had
pains in his back?"
"I'm trying to get a premise for a proper working arrangement between
us. Why should you be facetious over simple fundamentals?"
"Why can't we go ahead and discuss the work?"
"Because you’re in no fit shape to do any work. Not real work. Not
work of lasting value. I know that I want to do Happy Material, not stuff
that sobs a heartcry all over the place. Tell me about your wife."
There was a candor, a platonic honesty, about this person that disarmed
her inquisitiveness. And yet I demurred. I was by no means the husband mis-
understood at home. Things went deeper than tha.t.
"Oh come, come’" cried Lillian. "Marriage is a fact of life, like taxes
and poor cooking. Ten thousand people a week get bogged down in the smothering
sort of matrimony and try to smear their plights over with silences tha.t are
only rationalizations. And rationalizations that are only inhibitions. There
was a time in my life when I mistakenly thought it was the thing to do myself.
I've been married twice and I don't expect to flirt with ycu. On the whole,
I'm too busy."
"I thought writing was to be my lifework," I said. "All of a sudden I'm
not so sure. Somehow cr other it's not vital enough. It's continually talking
about things instead of doing them."
An hour had not passed before I recognized that I had become the guest
of an exceeding clever woman. But it is also true that the really clever woman
1 0 6
is p.lso the conscientious woman. All others are merely smart, ^t was as in-
evitable that I should meet up with a woman of Lillian's type at this stage
of my life as that I should have essayed any of my exploits to the moment.
Pray G-od that when my own boy rea.chos thirty, if life has similarly involved
him, that he may meet a Lillian. She proved to be strong medicine but I need-
ed strong medicine. Somehow I did not want to fight her. I felt no urge to
contradict her. I was tired, tired, ^t was a strange sensation for me. Ever
since boyhood I had kept myself too busy to think of being tired.
"Half the unhappy people in the world," Lillian said to me that first
night, "are running about, stewing in the juice of their own troubles, and
boiling them over to drench or scald others, because they've got what I call
'messy minds'. Having made themselves into snarls of inhibitions, ba.sed mostly
on prudery or a false sense of honor, they blab and they blatt and they bleat.
They want people to track around with them in their sticky self-pity when they
really should be facing the fundamentals of their predicaments and altering
them. I know you're not the kind of a man who expects some other person to
clean up his mess — if he's in a mess. But you're the type who may be so
fearful of implying something that'll compromise another — especially a woman
or a wife — that you'll willingly compromise yourself and thus wreck the both
of you."
"All right," I agreed. "But where does it get us?"
"I'm not so sure that the trouble with you is lack of action, wanting
to do things instead of writing about them. You're groping for something be-
cause what you've got doesn't satisfy you. Life has gone stale on you because,
in a
. manner of speaking, it holds no more explorations. Or rather, your arena,
for exploring is circumscribed. And you're trying to make the most of insuf-
ferable mediocrity. You flatter yourself it's quite the proper thing to put
all thoughts of readjustment out of your head. Your real reason for refusing
to face facts is because you're afraid."
"Afraid of what?" I demanded,
"New England conventions for one thing. Your own inherent chivalry for
another and the antagonist it might become if you suddenly decided to meet Life
head-on and let it bear you where it will. Take your marital predicament, for
instance. You unconsciously bragged to me a few moments ago about what a clever
woman your wife was, citing her activity in the Woman Suffrage movement as some
sort of proof. In the first place, whenever a man starts bragging to me about
how clever his wife is, I recognize at once that she's probably as stupid as a
duck. It's a sort of apology for her, even to himself. In the second place,
when any woman goes in for Suffrage, I know it's a subconscious castigation of
men, and usually one man in particular. No woman who truly loves her man, goes
in for Suffrage. Don’t talk to me about these suffragists. I'm a newspaper
person and a
. woman myself. I've sized it up that Suffrage is a polite and res-
pectable way to express individual hostility against individual men and get a
satisfaction vicariously tha.t some women seize upon by poison phials and bullets.
You can sit here and talk to me about how happy your marriage is, from now until
San Erancisco Bay becomes a mud-slough, but you'll be wasting your time. That'.
probably what's the natter with you, and you alibi it, or whitewash it, or soft-
pedal it by declaring you're going stale or want action instead of narrative.
As Elbert Hubbard remarked once, 'Even the proudest of women are willing to ac-
cept orders when the time is ripe, and I'm fully convinced tha.t to be domineered
over by the right man is a
. thing that all good women warmly desire.' Hubbard
had it right, although I've put it a bit more subtly."
It was a strange conversation to have break upon me during my first even-
ing in San Erancisco. I drew Lillian on, to listen to her fluency and clean-cut
mentality.
"When a woman truly loves a man," she declared, "and surfeits him with
107
it, it's such a
. natural, spontaneous thing that neither one of then probably
stops to give it a thought the calendar around. They just accept it, and live
it, and that's all there is to it. There's never any need to make intellect-
ual equations of matrimony. It's being, not logicizing. Anyhow, I'n just a
poisonpus person who's lia.ble to disrupt your happy home, be ce~use after you've
had the chance to draw off and think over what I've been minded to express this
evening, you'll probably come pussyfooting back and tell me how much you love
me. And it won't be love at all. It'll be hunger to have me ninister sone more
Food of Truth to you, because you lack the stamina to feed it to yourself. You
don't need a wife just now. You don't need a writing partner. You don't re-
quire any partner at all. *ou need a cook — a cook and a nurse, fou're men-
tally sick through a type of emotional malnutrition."
"lou're telling a lot of this to the wrong person," I laughed.
Lillian took a nervous turn up and down the room. For the first time I
noted that her own pretty shoulders looked tired, tired. "Oh what's the matter
with the women today?" she cried. "If they've got brains enough to contrive a
matrimonial relationship, why haven't they got brains enough — and self-respect
enough — to know that it means something more than ordering supplies from the
grocer's?"
"After all," I said, "I'm no paragon of virtue. I haven't got the stead-
iest temperament in the world, myself."
"And why shouldn't you have an unsteady temperament? You're a writer,
aren't you? . . a creative artist? Percheron horses are steady, but when men
want a race horse to reach a high goal, they select an Arab. Women marry Arabs
in men and then berate them for not being Percherons."
I said, not very politely, "First I'm a
. bird, now I'm a horsel"
"Oh stop being an adolescent little boy, putting up his defences, whist!
ling in the dark, exhibiting how unafraid of the world he is, by making impert-
inent remarks."
It was nearly midnight when she paused before me thoughtfully.
"What I'm debating," she said, "is whether, if I roll up my sleeves and
try to help you find yourself, get on a better basis with life, you'll be worth
the while and the results in the end halfway repay me? I'm announcing at the
start, I'm coldblooded about it. I'm not looking for a husband. I've got some
things I want to see written, and I need a reasonably brainy man to help me write
them — and short-cut to publication markets when they're finished. God knows
that I don't want to get mixed up in this sort of thing again, but . . I'm sens-
ing that for some reason or other you've been sent to me, and that sort of . .
commission . . is one I can't sidestep."
Such a sequence was astounding. Utter sincerity rang in her voice. She
was like a very wise older sister from whom I ha.d been parted throughout the
years of my manhood. But the sensations that played over me in my hotel that
night — and most of next day — chagrin, anger, outrage, spiritual famine,
uncertainty about the future of my career and ’
;
,
here it might lead me to break
the stalemate into which I was bogging, fused into something that was very like
a challenge. I had suddenly been projected into this propinquity, which I had
by no means solicited or anticipated. I was hanged if I would run.
So I sat on and on in her apartment that week, and that month, and let
her drub me. Her massage was savage. Yet I discovered that I liked it. I was
by no means ready to admit that all which she assumed about my marriage was cor-
rect. A sense of fairplay would not permit me to submit to the blind castiga-
tions of the woman I had wedded. But in the personal ma.tters having to do with
my own deficiencies, I knew in my heart that I needed what she offered.
Selfishness? Perhaps so. Few men who have truly achieved anything in
life can honestly look back and say that their careers have been without their
Lillian's. I entered into no intimacies with this girl, in the accepted sense.
108
I never did other then take what she voluntarily offered for the hectic inter-
lude, in masculine thoughtlessness. When the sequence closed between us, it
closed. And while it lasted, I seized, absorbed, and profited . . by her high-
voltage altruism. *t was that and little more.
She was one of those rare women who give in direct ratio to the need,
whose roles are those of coming into the lives of men from a tangent, playing
a horridly vital part, and suddenly dropping out as dramatically as they en-
tered. Not that it left her without a grisly void. But it was one of those
strange karmic relationships that were not to end in the stalemate of fresh
matrimony. The least I can do for her is to publically acknowledge my debt
thus contracted, although I can never write her true name. Although we parted
in some enmity because of the nature of the circumstances, I believe that she
too ha.d the final goodness to sense that both of us were "guided’
1, tha.t what
happened while in company was all a part of a more stupendous plan whose real
import and pattern would not be made discernable while mortal coil encompassed
us. In writing thus, I refuse to believe that I am wholly rationalizing.
What is to be, WILL be, . . in any ca.se, in any relationship. I had quite an-
other woman waiting for me, further up the years. Lillian doubtless had other
men. Strangely enough, however, with certain reservations I acceded to her
proposals.
'C EE OPENED a new intellectual and social world to me, a world where men and
^ women made a fine art of Living, where manners were not something to be put
on like a garment when company knocked, where Woman was Man's team-mate, pull-
ing adroitly and understandingly in double harness, and giving man by her com-
plementing skill and intelligent compassion a catalytic** that blended and fused
all the elements of his talents into the compound of his triumph.
I began to realize for the first time in that contact what a young bar-
barian I had been in many respects to the moment, what interclusions had oc-
curred to me from never having been made aware of provincial deficiencies in
the comities, what urbanities of life — energizing uncontrolled in my affairs
up till then — called for basic readjustment.
Shock after shock Lillian administered to me, causing me to discern that
convictions, like manners, can often be no- more than infantile fixations, pro-
vincial reflexes, rampant idiosyncrasies permitted to run to weed. And I af-
firm that I liked it. I liked it, not from any masochistic delight in ordeal
but because I discovered that I had hidden reservoirs of strength within myself
that such measures tapped and wrought a
. stamina, to endure. It became a sort of
grim contest to see how much of this tonic-instruction I could absorb while it
was available for me to take. And the girl's forked wisdom was often more than
a tonic. It was a galvanic purgative when it brought trenchant, unfettered ex-
pression to lambent desirings in the artistic Eternal Verities.
"Failure?" she would say to me, when I had occasion to refer to those
earlier episodes of mine in Chicopee, Wilmington, St. Johnsbury. "Nothing's
failure so long as you can analyze it and sec clearly the factors producing the
result. You had an ambition to push onward, to get close to the Big Drums of
Life, to beat one yourself with a complicated resonance. You tra/veled each
time to a sort of blank wall. It never occurred to you that perhaps the Wall
reared suddenly because you must be stopped, that Cosmos was commanding you to
take a new veer. When the Wall was too high for you to climb over, you termed
it Failure because the beating of your naked skull against the granite did not
knock the Wall down. You never paused to think that the world and Life being
a sphere — or at least the Cosmic Circle — » to travel in one direction long
enough brings you back exactly to your starting-point. Then all must be re-
tre.veled. For the life of me, I can't see why each of your failures weren't
109
essentially successes."
"Ho f do you figure it?" I would ask her, disquieted.
"Because, "by your own admission, you wrung dry from each venture all
that it held to give you as a true receptive entity. You plunged into each
with the audacity of courage. You did the best you knew how at every turning-
point. When each venture had no more to give you in new experiencing, you
loosened your grip. You night not have done it consciously, all the sane you
did it — exactly as you should have done it. Failure would have cone had you
persisted in monotony, grown stereotyped in your expressions, allowed the mech-
anisms which you had invented and set going, to whirr away, hour after hour,
year after year, performing by cogwheels that which the very essence of mortal-
ity commands shall be done by continuing ingenuity. Don't you see, inventing
the nechanisn is the thing that counts, not watching it run?"
No woman had ever bothered to talk so to me before, and my ca.llowness
considered it.
Another time we had an argument about Chivalry — what it was.
"I'll tell you what it is," said Lillian, "it's aiding a woman as you
can to be the biggest sort of woman that she can be, strictly within the limits
of her womanhood. Coddling to a woman's weaknesses, defending feminine indol-
ence or lassitude, championing an intelligence that has all the brilliance and
flexibility of cement, glossing over petulancies, that's never Chivalry. You're
but making such a woman fla.bby. Besides, you're injuring yourself far worse."
"How, injuring myself?"
"Because by excusing or glossing over such deficiencies, you're losing
your own sense of values, you're blunting the edge of Fine Reasoning, you're
getting sloppy in your discriminations and correct self-appraisals. But to get
back to the subject of you being a 'failure' as a businessman. Just what's a
successful businessman? Have you ever stopped to examine? . . A successful
businessman is one who's so far forgotten himself in the elements of Spirit
that his soul has grown a paunch not unlike his body. He has, by the very na-
ture of his success, become the slave of his own conventions. He views the
future, the present, and the past, strictly in terms of polite rapacities.
He's an eagle without a tail, all beak and no wings. He's usually a person
who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. Presently as his
'success' increases, he walks less on his toes and more on his heels. The
elements of Trade are the elements of grossness. He must fight to keep what
he's riven from the hard rock of realities, but it's no longer a
, venturesome
chivalrous fight. It's a sort of slaughter where his opponents have dud amnun-
iti34, where he knows how the battle is planned in advance and takes excellent
delight in performing mutilations on the resultant commercial corpses. Have
you ever been on a battlefield?"
"I've been on many battlefields," I answered her hoarsely,
"I mean a martial battlefield. Did you ever have a desire to loot the
dead bodies of clothing or moneys?"
"Don't be absurd."
"But if you were a Good Businessman you'd so shudder to see all those
good leather boots and fabrics buried with human debris that stripping those
corpses would be an 'economic necessity'. The essence of business is looting
the other fellow before he loots you. Looting's raised to a science, a fine
art. It's smeared all over with wonderful names — human Service, Social Evol-
ution, commercial exploration. That's all so much camouflage. The successful
businessman is the one who at all times and under all conditions can annex
everything in sight that isn't nailed down and carry such voracities as the
essence of his character. Do you want to do that?"
"Certainly not. And never did. All the same I've had the urge -
- "
" -
- you've had the urge to direct certain groups or masses of people
110
along lines of constructive effort. It's gotten you into "business ventures
because primarily they're the only vehicles, or types of expression, available
to you to date, enabling you to exercise that blind cosmic drive toward some-
thing that's your destiny. So long as you serve that Inner Drive, you're
elated with your projects. The moment they become the amassing of gross world-
ly increment, you start to lose interest. That means those groups disintegrate
by the very lack of silica-profits to hold them together. But the effects up-
on YOU can be nothing but successful. You're serving your Drive — up near
the Big Drums. And that's altogether splendid, and right vihere you belong,"
"OHERE were times when this woman openly rebelled at the task she had so un-
J naturally taken upon herself. She had not sought it, she complained. It
was altogether distasteful to her. Her method of meeting the situation in
those times was to stomp on me figuratively with her spiked French heels, to
give way to flaming interludes of mutual excoriation. Fixations and reflexes
had worn thirty-year grooves in my subconscious — or I told myself they had.
To furrow them out in a handful of weeks seemed well-nigh impossible and too
often inhuman in their effects upon us both. Yet it had to be done. Lillian
would never spoil a man under any circumstances.
I began to see that, after all, I had grown up like a weed. I had a
certain surface cleverness at manipulating men and situations. I thought this
trait smartness. It was really the smartness of the maverick, romping hither
and yon at his unbranded whim, gauging his astuteness by his agility in leap-
ing fences — with no especial reasons for entering strange pastures — making
folks chase him and calling it Leadership. Lillian felt herself obligated to
accomplish in a month what a wise and gentle wife would have consumed yeans in
doing, with warm romantic love as the humane anesthetic.
I had to stand up to the shock of this interlude, to watch this surgery
upon ray own spirit, without indulging myself with opiates to deaden the reac-
tions that at times were an agony. And the reason why I write so candidly of
the experience is to do away with the nonsensical assumption tha.t -there is
ever such a thing as a
. Self-Made Man.
We are all of us, rich or poor, failures or successes, the results of
the persons we have net with, the sharp or dull human contacts that have made
up our lives. Some men are luclq' in having a man like my father, a wife like
Marion, a mentor like Lillian, to school then in tumult — providing they re-
act with the nettle that is in them. That is why such contacts come to then,
to smelt that mettle, to temper their stamina. But after it is done there is
no dishonor, no caddishness — according to my philosophy — like arising in
the world1s High Places and letting it be said, "This human marvel is self-
made!" As well talk about an infant being physically self-made! . . .
I make open acknowledgement tha.t I have had debts to settle with this
long roster of splendorful souls who have arisen time and time again in my ex-
perience to point me the highroad to a finer self-expression. Without them I
should be plodding and blundering in the low-lying mists of meddlesome medioc-
rity, a flat-footed human ox whose saga was a wallow in rancorous self-pity.
I have left many of these people behind me now. But my heart is tender toward
them. In future lives I shall doubtless repay them, each and severally, grant-
ed that I have not already done so.
At another time Lillian said, looking at me strangely, "I believe I'd
give everything life night possess, to know the nan you'll presently be at
forty."
"Y'ou think you won't?" I cried in dismay.
She shook her head slowly, hot eyes upon me. "That's the iron.” of life,"
she whispered. "The thing we help to create no. .ends our affection in exactly
111
the ratio of the effort we put into it. Then when it's tine to realize on
that effort, the essence of true character means to see that we forego it."
"That's a cruel philosophy."
"Not at a.ll! Of course it seems cruel to persons not sufficiently
evolved to deserve its rea.1 increment. Remember the state of being affection-
ate means 'being affected' . . letting ourselves be affected. Life must dev-
elop our poise so that nothing can affect us, throw us off balance, I f s en-
compassing the kingdom of heaven within ourselves consciously, knowing that
we are its living horizons. When we can relinquish the thing we most cherish,
without a qualm of loss or regret, it's time for us to have it. And at such
time we'll probably not want it, because we shall not need it!"
Fogs began to lift as I caught the girl's philosophy. Yet how much of
it was academic with her, I wondered? She seemed to have moments of rebellion
at her own philosophy. I had an affection for her without being "in love"
with her. It was more the synthesis of gratitude — * compensation's fulcrum.
One day I gave voice to the Eternal ^stlessness. She stopped me with this -
-
"It taJkes a woman of brains to discern that only those men who are on
the wing, who are always up and talcing the Highroad Beyond, can possibly be
fit to live with. All others are merely providers. The woman who wants a
good provider is a walking advertisement of her own besotted indolence. You
can usually pick her out by the width of her hips."
Later I was to meet up with much the same sort of sentiment in the
writings of my friend, Will Levington Comfort. Lillian was a great admirer
of Comfort . .
"But women of brains," I countered, "are sometimes most uncomfortable
to live with, themselves. I'm speaking now, of course, from the standpoint of
the man."
"That all depends on how far they consider it advisable to let a man
down into himself. There's a lot of difference between relaxation and self-
indulgence."
"I mean, it's sometimes a fatiguing business, with all the other stress-
es a man must undergo, to constantly play up to them."
"No woman who has to be 'played up to', is brainy. Truly great women
are always noiseless. And they don't demand. They give."
"And where ARE these 'truly great women'?"
She answered whimsically, "I think they're in the hearts of the men
who create them by their need."
This was a bit beyond me at the time and I squirmed as often under
Lillian's trenchant scrutiny. Needless to say, there was little literary
collaboration going on. A few times we tried it. As well try to drive a
horse by one person handling the left rein and the other person the right.
Lillian caught it first. She wculd.
"We're living a novel, not writing one," she snapped.
And yet I was undergoing changes without being consciously aware of
them. The pallor and leanness which Siberia had put upon my face was grad-
ually disappearing. California sunshine, days in the open, an interest in
aviation, many wholesome excursions, was putting a healthy burnish on my
flesh and on my soul. Golden Moments, indeed! I was learning to think clear
of East Templeton fixations. My interlude with Lillian was nearing its com-
pletion but only the perspective of the years could reveal it.
I had broken out into High Sunshine for the moment. I had learned to
breathe deeply. Came the night when I found a letter from Vermont waiting for
me at my hotel.
"You'd better be coming back as soon as you can arrange it," wrote Mar-
ion. "You're going to become a father again . . in September!"
112
CHAPTER EIGHT
O
R SON, William Ernest, was born in Brooklyn City Hospital on the 23rd
day of September, I put my arms about his mother, weak and spent up-
on the bed, -nd the tears that we wept were not emotion only . . at
least not ny ora. "What are you working at now?" was Marion's poignant in-
quiry as I sat beside her cot in the fortni^it which ensued.
I said, "I’m getting ripened to do another novel. Little, Brown &
Company want a Spring book to follow The Greater Glory."
"What'll it be about?"
"Fog," I responded.
"I don't understand. Not a
. book on the weather!"
"I happened into Street & Smith's offices yesterday afternoon, The
editor of People's Magazine threw an advance copy of a book across to me —
a novel that's soon to appear called Main Street. By a chap named Sinclair
Lewis."
"Yes?"
"The editor wanted me to write him a human-interest article on whether
or not I considered it an accurate picture of American snail-town life. I
took it up to the hotel last night. At half-past two this morning I threw it
across the room."
"What's that to do with fog?"
"Main Street is a distorted, reprehensible libel on the American small
town. I'm not only going to write an article for Street & Smith about it, I'm
going to do a book myself for answer — a book that's got the inspiration that
I maintain Main Street lacks. And I mean to call it The Fog."
"Still, what's the significance?"
"I'm not only going to do as true a pen-picture as I can of the Ameri-
can small town, but I'm going to do a book that can be put into the hands of
boys and girls in their twenties — to help them grope their ways out of the
fog of adolescence and out upon the clean high tablelands of unobstructed
life-traveling. Don't you see? Fog! It's all fog for most of us — this
horrid stumbling and groping, striving to find oneself in one's lifework,
matrimony, spirituality, everything. Until a man or woman gets to know what
life's about in their particular case, and where they fit into it, it can't be
anything else but fog. But I'm also going to try something else, I'm going
to attempt a new type *f technique."
"Tell me about it." Those hours in that hospital's closets of pain
were having their effect on my new son's mother . .
"I'm going to see if I can tell the stories of the lives of a boy and
girl respectively, In the average novel, the story ends with hero and heroine
approaching the altar and facing the prospect of living happily ever after.
I'm not going to have hero and heroine meet in The Fog until the book's final
chapters. That meeting shall be the climax."
"Sound's interesting," said Marion, blinking her eyes with a habit she
had.
"Time to nurse the new little Pelley," announced the nurse, appearing
at the doorway . .
I wrote The Fog that autumn and winter. I wrote snatches in hotel
rooms and lobbies as I traveled around on my regular business. I finally
rented an apartment up in Greenfield, Mass., where I did the closing chap-
ters. In early March — blankets of snow still thick on the mountains —
I journeyed up to St. Johnsbury, locked myself alone in our shuttered winter
residence, built a fire in the homely kitchen range, drew the circular kitch-
en table up into the warmth, and proceeded to edit that book as never book was
edited.
1 1 3
I took every paragraph, every sentence, every word, and thrust it under
the ruthless microscope of a lexicographer's examination. Did I have exactly
the correct term in every instance? Were the sentences balanced? Was the eu-
phony perfect in word combinations? Alone in that country ark, day after day,
night after night, I read those sentences aloud to myself. Three lonely, con-
centrated weeks I spent in that strange exile. I finally finished the last
paragraph and sentence. I knew I had a book.
Down to New York I went and gave the precious manuscript over to an ex-
pert typist. The words, phrases, sequences, rolled from her machine like soft-
ly advancing rivulets of oil.
The Fog appeared in the summer which now followed. It ran into seven-
teen printings and made me thirty-six thousand dollars.
\.WHILE it was in process of printing in Boston, I received a letter from Karl
' ' Harriman out on The Bed Book in Chicago, regarding a three-part serial I had
delivered to him between-times. "I like 'White Faith'," he wrote, "but I sim-
ply can't publish it. Being a story premised on the Holy Grail of Tennyson's
poem turning up in America and working wonders in this twentieth century, I'm
afraid orthodox people will raise hob a.bout it. They may not take to the idea
of the Cup from which the Savior drank at the Last Supper actually appearing in
modern America after all these centuries of its disappearance. The idea's a
knockout and you've handled it reverently. Instead of returning you the manu-
script, however, I'm taking the liberty of sending it to a motion-picture agent
in Manhattan. His name is Larry Giffen. I think you'll get a splendid price
for that plot as a screen production. Anyhow, here's hoping!"
If I could only have known then, the stupendous influence which this
letter wa.s to play upon my life! But I did not. The serial at the time meant
nothing to me. It was just another story. My real interest that summer was in
the success of my new book. I read the proofs and despatched them back to Bos-
ton. Then I sought an opiate for the distraction that had gradually returned
upon me after that California interlude, by throwing myself furiously into my
gardening, my flowers, constructing a veranda about one end of the house and
doing the entire carpentry work myself.
Soon the gray days were making life intolerable. I strolled from room
to room in our domicile — all "sides of the Well". I strolled about my acres
— more "sides of the Well". Twice a week as the film changed at the local
movie house, I wr
ent uptown and "saw the pictures" . . the pettiness of such an
existence nauseated me. I bought myself a saddle horse and rode over the hills.
The splendid little beast put his foot in a hole while being galloped, broke
his leg and had to be shot. I have never been able to bring myself to own a
saddle-horse since.
None of these expedients fed the famine in my spirit. With the small
son well born and doing lustily*, and her own strength regained, Marion was
about her errand of life once more. I was given to understand that I should
consider myself both lucky and proud to have such a fine family, that I ought
to be content to "live in my children" . .it was quite the commendable thing
to do, to "live in one's children". When I demanded to know how one "lived
in one's children", I was looked upon as a strange, unnatural father. "Can't
these babies contrive to find their way to maturity without us considering
that the raising of them is the last word in worldly existence?" I demanded
hotly of their mother. I was usually advised that "someday I would be sorry
that I didn't think more of them". "But I think plenty of them," I would
argue foolishly, "but truly I can't see that parenthood is the end and aim of
all adult existence." No, Marion and I were not hitting it off very well.
All the time, in the back of my head, I was struggling with the Future. What
114
was it that Lillian had said, something about moving up close to life's Big
Drums? That was it, . . Big Drums! And I was ostracizing myself in a grubby
little maple-sugar town, 1
1living in my children” . .
True, we planned to return to New York when the city's heat was ended.
Little Bill commanded this midsummer's interval, and so did Adelaide, now dev-
eloping into an exceptionally robust girl. But the beat of those Big Drums was
acute in my senses. I had to precipitate myself into the heart of things, the
essence of living, which was . . doing to the utmost that which called mutely.
I was hysterical in my homesickness for a land I had not entered.
Somehow or other I must catch up with the future, catch up frantically
while there was time. I tried to put my growing restiveness out of mind, to
”commune with Nature" . . over the river road was a pasture and down at its
foot ran the sluggish Passumpsic. I found a swimming-hole in that river.
Morning and night I sought out the spot and swam nakedly in perfect isolation,
building up my body for the strain that wracked my mind.
The inevitable happened.
One hot July day I went down to the river and plunged off my diving-
place. The water was covered with a peculiar greenish scum. I took an acci-
dental swallow of it, wondering what had got into the river to make it taste
so brackish. In the week that followed, I was fretful and feverish.
One afternoon I collapsed on the lawn. Mother Holbrook helped me into
the house and called a physician, a woman named Fairbanks. Dr. Fairbanks put
aside her stethoscope. "This man's caught some ugly malady," she pronounced.
"His fever's mounting rapidly."
I was so ill by sundown that Marion called an ambulance. By midnight,
Up in Brightlook Hospital in town, three white-robed nurses were working ice-
packs furiously to save ray life. My ailment was subsequently found to be ty-
phoid.
I was down to the bottom of the cycle again.
I had come to the break.
CHAPTER NINE
P OR nine weeks I lay on the grid of wild fever and expatiated compensations
r
for all that I had seized. By night, troops of mad cavalry thundered
across my bed. Lillian's big drums beat, tom-tom, tom-tom-tom-tom, afar
in starlit distance. I had weighed one hundred and sixty pounds when they re-
moved me to the hospital. Ten days later I weighed less than one hundred. My
tody was dehydrated, my joints were like gourds. I became a prematurely old
man. Edna came up from Springfield to visit me. I recall my puzzlement when
she broke into tears rs she saw me on the bed. Most of my hair came out in
hatches. My sense of smelling left me, and it never returned. To me it was
funny. I had suddenly arrived in a status of existence wherein I was princi-
pally spare parts.
A wisp of a French-Canadian nurse saved my life. Hour after hour she
plied the ice-packs and fought the Grim Reaper. I was too delirious to know
what was happening. I remember barbaric voyages on battle-fleets that van-
ished with dawn, one particularly horrible ordeal when a crooked-legged little
darky with no flesh on his skull climbed through my window-screen with a dirk
in his hand the length of a cutlass. I fought a mad fight with him. The night-
nurse entered and sounded an alarm. I was off on the floor. My bed was wrecked.
If that nurse had not entered I would have demolished that hospital. They did
not leave me alone after that.
"What I can't understand," said Dr. Fairbanks, "is how his heart holds
115
out. It must be made of iron."
It was hot that summer, in that little country hospital. Its walls were
paper-thin. I heard every groan let out hy fellow patients in the throes of
every ailment from delirium tremens to childbirth. One day the janitor cane in
to fix the lock on the door. He had a hag of tools that might have repaired a
battleship. The nurse showed him the door that was always sagging open. 7/here-
upon he started to work by merely releasing his finger-grip on the handle of his
tool-bag. The tools hit the floor and I hit the ceiling. The place was about
as quiet as Ten Nights in One Bar-Room with the fleet in and seventeen sailors
fighting in the basement. Once a reasonably cool breeze wandered in, but it
did not belong there and as quickly got out. It was the only cool breeze, by
the way, that entered there, that summer. At five o'clock every morning they
awakened me to drink an egg-nog. When I had consumed all the eggs in Caledonia
County, they started in on Franklin County. I found myself listening peevish-
ly for the Burlington train that a half-hour later went puffing up the valley.
I knew it was making the trip for nore eggs.
It was almost October before the limousine of a friend returned me to
Passumpsic. But I still had three weeks of bed ahead of me. Day after day I
lay in cool autumn, listening to spicy breezes that I could no longer smell
wafting across the polished floors of the house. From time to time I called
for writing materials and tried to catch up on overdue stories. But what was
the use of writing? For the first time in life I was seized with a panic.
I had said everything that I thought I could possibly say thereafter
all in one book, The Fog . .
By the middle of October I found myself normal. I gained back to my
legs by walking each night to the postoffice in Passumpsic. On one of these
nights I pulled an unfamiliar envelop from the box. It held Larry Giffen's
corner card — that motion-picture agent down in New York.
"I can got you seven thousand five-hundred dollars," it read, "for the
screen rights to White Faith. Jules Brulatour, a local movie magnate, wants
the story for Hope Hampton. Clarence Brown will direct it and the picture will
probably be screened at Fort Lee. As soon as you are able, I suggest that you
make the trip down here, sign the papers, and see about collaborating with
Brown in the writing of the script."
Movies I
No other tonic could have whisked me off that sickbed with such ener-
gizing swiftness. I was gaining back to weight and a new crop of hair was ap-
pearing on my scalp — iron gray hair now. I presented myself at Giffen's
office in the week that followed.
"Local scenario editors are saying that 'White Faith' is the greatest
movie that's come to Broadway since The Miracle Man," Giffen complimented me.
He was a stocky, middle-aged man, with a startling resemblance to Herbert
Hoover, "I understand that they're bringing Lon Chaney from the west coast to
play the role of thug in your story."
I met Brown, today one of the greatest directors in the business. I
found him to be a taciturn, and somewhat ruthless young man, worked up into a
tension because it was his first production as a professional director, We
hied ourselves to a suite in the Commodore Hotel and for two weeks we worked
- out that film story, "shot" by "shot" . .
With the script finished, the technician crew was being assembled. One
November morning the door of the studio pulled open with a bang. Along the
outer glass partition of the corridor I saw a heavy-set, round-shouldered fel-
low enter, clad in a heavy raglan overcoat, with visor of his cap pulled down
nearly to his eyes. "Chaney's come, Mr. Brown," said a badly-awed office boy.
Lon Chaney entered.
I was introduced to a soft-spoken, jovial-mannered man of about my own
116
years, with the most poignant brown eyes into which I ever looked. He had won
some screen recognition playing the cripple in The Miracle Man, with Betty
Conpson and Tommy Meighan. Then a legless role in The Penalty had followed.
This was to "be his third vehicle in which he was featured player. We discussed
trade events in Hollywood at first, the gossip of the West Coast from which
Chaney had just cone. Then we got down to the story and the role he was to
play. "Somebody's got to go over-town with me and show me where to find the
right clothes," he said an hour later.
"Pelley'll go with you," Brown responded. "He knows what's called for
by the plot."
I walked out to the Fort Lee, N. J. trolley-line with Chaney. "So you
wrote the story," he opened our friendship. "Tell me the action on the way
across the ferry."
But I did not tell him the action on the way across the ferry. He was
far more interested in the fa,ct that across the river on Claremont Avenue I
had a wife and two babies. "Swell!" was his comment. "My wife Hazel is down
to the Commodore. Maybe your wife can keep her from being lonesome while we're
here in New York."
Came the night when I phoned Marion, "Lon and Hazel Chaney are coming
up for dinner." It was the commencement of an intimacy with the star of The
Hunchback of Notre Dame that practically endured to the month of his death.
I was on the "set" with him, hcarly ten years later, when he met with the mis-
hap that put him in his coffin.
"Camera!" called Brown next day.
My seven-year submergence in movies had begun
CHAPTEE TEN
— r-l
HE BOTTOM of the arc was turned in my third life-cycle. From that morning
in Japan when I had started the descent of Asama Volcano, to that night in
J Brightlook Hospital when I fought a mad battle with an African Illusion,
the journey had been downgrade. Now I had crossed the sag of the valley. The
Pathway started up. It always starts up, else valleys could not be valleys.
I was back in the money with new goals before me. I welcomed the necro-
mancy of movie making, the hectic tempo, the exciting bedlam. It gave me no
time to think about myself and that horrible gnawing deep, deep in my spirit.
I knew that movies were not my lifework anymore than fiction had been my life-
work. But not knowing thenjust what my lifework truly was, I took them as an
opiate for that ever-present ganglion. One could not hear the far-off throb
of Lillian's Big Drums in the blare and wrack of screendon. I applied myself
to learning all that existed to be learned about the production of screen en-
tertainment. Day after day, week after week, I stood beside Brown, determined
that this — my first production — should be a boxoffice knockout.
During those evenings when not otherwise engaged on movie scripts for
other producers, Marion and I were pals with the Chaneys in our home on Col-
umbia Heights. Hazel was a roly-poly little Italian girl with Mona Lisa eyes.
Night after night would find Chaney in our kitchenette with one of Marion's
aprons tied about his waist, dexterously concocting savory messes while our
wives laid the table. After the meal, Lon and I plannedroles for his future
screen career across the cleared cloth. His makeup for the Hunchback of Notre
Dame was thus evolved, with many sketches and references to Hugo's works * in
ny New York apartment. One evening I came home from an afternoon's shooting
at which his presence had not been required, to find this idol of photoplay
millions squatted cross-legged on the rug with his tongue in his cheek, en~
117
grossed in showing Adelaide how to dress a doll. Of the pair of then, the
screen's most famous had-nan was enjoying that costuming the most.
The day before Christmas we nearly killed Chaney. One of the sequences
in ny story required him to make an escap® from the police by swinging from the
top of a moving 'bus to the Ninth Avenue Elevated where it crosses Lincoln
Square. Thence he was to draw himself up on the ironwork, climb to the plat-
form, board an incoming train, and be gone from the "shot". He made the grab
from the top of the 'bus but on crawling to the platform with the vehicle
passed from under him, a rotted board cracked on the El's ancient woodwork.
For a sickening instant thirty feet of space yawned underneath Chaney, nothing
below but a crash on cement. By superhuman effort, greater than any test of
strength which I saw him exert later in climbing the facade of the cathedral
in The Hunchback, he drew himself to safety by clutching at a truss.
The picture was finished on Christmas morning and we spent the happy
evening exchanging Yuletido gifts. Lon was anxious to get back to Hollywood
where other roles awaited him. Long before his Manhattan nocturne was finished
I had worked out another plot for him, The Shock, from my Munsey Magazine story,
The Pit of the Golden Dragon. Briefly it was a screen play of a cripple's
prayer that brought on the San Francisco earthquake. I finished this play
and Lon took it with him, to offer it in Eollywood.
We had payed him but $750 a week for his work in White Faith. Six years
later he had signed a $5,000 a week contract, for three years, with Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer. I had considerable to do with this contract, as I shall relate further
on. I recall the late December night when we strolled down the West side of
Times Square, the sidewalks deserted. Lon walked with his arm inside of mine
after a habit he had. Across the Square the bulbs of an illuminated sign
blinked to darkness as we passed.
"I wonder, Bill," he mused whimsically, jerking up his powerful chin,
"if I'll ever see my name up in electric lights, like that?"
He was a Man's man, Chaney. In his obituary, ten years later, someone
told the incident of having come upon him in the rear yard of his Beverly Hills
hone, restoring to its nest a baby bird that had flopped out onto the ground.
"Press agent stuffj" exclaimed the cynical. "Terrible!" It was not press-
agent stuff. During the years that followed I was one of a scant half-dozen
who always had entrant to his hone. He could never tolerate the fripperies of
actordon. I can attest that the episode of the fledgling was quite within his
character.
"You cone out to Hollywood," he counselled me. "Be my scenanio-nan and
we'll both of us clean up."
But accompanying him to Hollywood was not feasible just then. I was
enjoying my new privacy alone with ny family for Mrs. Holbrook had remained
in Vermont. The New York movie fraternity was likewise proving cordial. Also
ny iew novel, The Fog, was busy cutting capers. The critics were scoring it,
or obviously ignoring it. All the same, it was selling. At tines it seemed as
though a conspiracy existed to keep that novel from the public. Such reviews
as were friendly, heralded the fact that "here at last is a novel of the Amer-
ican small town that possesses all the inspirational qualities which Main Street
sorely lacked."
I did not know then that the reason for this treatment la.y precisely
in that fact. I had no means then of learning that a very real conspiracy was
afoot to disparage and discount the American small town, to make fun of every-
thing American, to create a vast national dissatisfaction with American ideals
and wholesome institutions. Get the Gentile millions disgusted with small-
tom life so that they could come to the cities where they could be controlled
or polluted — that was the strategy, Not for several years did I commence to
118
discern that hook after hook, film after film, that was voraciously heralded
and promoted to the public, always had something in it, or extolled a motif,
that was basically negative, that poked fun at everything constructive and in-
spirational, that brought to general attention the vapidity and asininity of
American life in some aspect or another. Think over the best-sellers of the
past few years — most of them written by Jews if you only knew their true
names and extractions — and somewhere in then you will disoover that they dis-
paraged things American, or told some exaggerated erotic story of wholesome
ideals gone introvert. The promotion of such books among the public did not
occur by chance.
And yet people bought my Fog and its many editions mounted. For nearly
five years The Fog continued selling. Subsequently, in addition to the book
royalties, I disposed of the screen rights for another ten thousand dollar's.
Then, just v/hen I hoped that I had most of the ragged edges of my life happily
folded in at last, I confronted catastrophe . .
The life ways parted between Marion and myself!
Y READER should understand, I believe, how very impossible it is for me to
chronicle here what the incidents were that wrought this great sorrow. The
mother of my children — grown children now, beginning to think about homes of
their own — is still alive and living in New York. If I attempted even to im-
ply what wrought our impasse, she would have no opportunity for recounting her
version of the tragedy. When the break came, it came quick, and sharp, and
numbing — at least for myself. None of the usual motivations for such epi-
sodes in married life were present. For nearly fourteen years thereafter we
lived our lives apart, and when a
. divorce was finally the order, it was I who
procured it. But even in this statement I would co.st no reflection upon the
girl I first married. Things happened that way to save her distress.
As I remarked far back in these pages, we had looked upon life from twr
o
different angles . .
My studio, out of which I traveled to California many times in the next
six years, was at 27 Vest 10th Street, on the edge of Greenwich Village. In a
spacious room up among the chimney-pots I lay in Gethsenane and grieved for ny
babies.
What was it that father had said? . . "Make the most of your life, never
let it get you down!" . .
And yet I saw myself at forty, fifty, sixty — conventional, common,
with little trade ideas of good and bad, self-control, and politeness, walking
as Lillian had put it, on my heels, pushing my shoulders back in order to bal-
ance my increasing heaviness in front. I would probably adopt tortoise shell
spectacles with a ribbon down ny jowl, hold forth at literary teas, wincing at
the railleries of cool-eyed females, being careful to put on my rubbers when
the weather was wr
et so a
.
s not to get a chill that interfered with masterpieces.
I would be badgered by the hostages given to fortune, made always to carry on
ny sterile battle inwardly, to grope ever toward sunlight that was filtered
through sadness, to grow gnarled on the surface while ny heart rebelled within,
verily for the Big Drums that had passed down the skyline.
I knew I could not do it. That which cannot bend must break. Whatever
breaks in a nan’s heart colors the complexion of his soul. Life was bigger
than that. Camaraderie was more wholesome. A thousand people, similarly cir-
cumscribed might never understand, but ny brand of work was ever the entice-
ment, the breath of a transition, the summons to a mastery. I was not even the
gypsy, not even the gambler, so much as a soldier-of-fortune with ivories in
his pack, zephyrs in his mess-kit, a
. song in his heart for the highroad that
meant victories. All of such is mawkish to a person not creative. Big Drums.
119
Pounding tenples. Romance that sparkled like lights in old champagne. Yes,
it was all as terrible to explain to a person whose life is a matter of six
percent interest as trying to lock sweet woodsnoke at sundown in a hank vault.
Was it self-pity? What of the race horse that quivers to the track? . .
Oh that fearful accolade that was waiting for me to how before it, further
up the yee.rs! My torn heart was a prophecy and a prophecy my torment.
My marriage had gone sterile. I was surfeited with maps of uncaptured
country. The highways of endeavor were grades into nonchalance. Where could I
go or turn that the emptiness of life did not cost me a heartburn’ A thousand
men, I suppose, caught in domestic dilemma, would have betrayed their married
partners, kept up the aspects of the relationship and avoided its tumults. I
could not do that. It was not in my philosophy. I had to come to a elenneut
break, face a strong wound, recover as I might. So long as I lived with a
woman and gave her my allegiance, that relationship was sacrosanct. In the
eleven years that I had been husband to Marion, I knew I had not cheated. That
was all that mattered, that I knew it to myself.
Now I opened my days with the breviary of repugnance. Something had gone
out of life, something had come in. Between fallacious enticements to make up
for shortages of romantic endeavor all in one pounce, I turned myself now to
build up a future worthy of my sacrifice. For it had to be worthy of my sacri-
fice. And sacrifice it was. I could never mistake it. Yet deep in my con-
sciousness was the dull ache and throbbing. Such surgery was deep. It had
cut to the bone.
Romance? What was Romance? The cynic declares it to be that measure
of ignorance which a man and a woman hold toward one another. The loftier
critic declares, "Romance is the blossoming of a bud of promise, that all that
life aspires to, may likewise know fulfillment."
Now I rumpled my bed. Milestones could perforce be headstones.
The Drums were beating very faint and far away as I listened to the
melancholy tootings of the tugboats on the river and longed in my soul to es-
cape my Old Serfdom.
For no one has ever gained to any kind of freedom without serving at
the galleys of sacrosanct remorse, without knowing curdled aspiTa.tions, harbing-
ers gone rancid, heart sacristies looted and left in defilements.
Now I am a soldier at the Mighty Wars.
Once I was a fa.ther and had a son.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
'HITE FAITH had turned out tragically. Chaney had done such a magnificent
job of acting that he had stolen the picture from Its heroine, Miss
Hampton. Thereupon, after the way of movies, Hope and Brulatour had ob-
viously locked themselves in the laboratory one Sunday with the negative and cut
it all over to suit the lady's whim. The build-up of the drama, with its nice-
ly adjusted checks and pauses, meant nothing to these. Hope must be kept before
her public regardless of the epic I was striving to narrate. When prints were
made and released from this cutting, the result was a plot about as clear and
progressive as a Chinese laundry check. 'No matter. It had been Jules' one-
hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars squandered in the opus, and Chaney's
was the face on the cutting-room floor. If Jules wanted td? ruin a magnificent
screen story for the sake of keeping his lady's face before the camera, who was
I, a mere author — the lowest form of life in Jewish movies — to utter my as-
inine protest? Anyhow, I was too far engrossed in new productions to waste
tears on a masterpiece whose soul had been butchered.
120
I wrote As a Man Lives, The Sawdust Trail, Ladies to Board, Torment,
Backfire, and What Do Women Want? Few of these movie plays sold for less than
five thousand dollars, and most of them for ten. Chaney disposed of The Shock
to Universal Pictures and played its leading role. The production made so much
money for Carl Lamnle that the Jew told Chaney that he could play anything for
Universal that ho chose.
"I want to do The Hunchback of Notre Dame,” responded Chaney.
"What?" cried Lamnle, "You should do a football pitcher?"
More erudite people corrected the ex-cloak-and-suiter and Chaney was
given the contract which starred him.
This was about the tine that a strange little person came into my life.
AN IO'm a woman had written me, applying for a job as secretary. Finding that
/i she was an expert court reporter, that she held a typewriting speed record,
that she was sensible and sedate, I had given her the pla,ce. Ensconced day by
day in my Greenwich Village studio, she had sensed that I was living within the
shadow of a heartbreak. One evening it so happened that we talked in the dark.
I confided in Beryl, as a bachelor nan will,
"It’s not my life, this," was my antique complaint. "Sometimes in
flashes between these . , these heart-heavy mysteries . . I sense some sort of
job that's waiting for me Out Yonder. *t’s so big that it appalls me. It’s
got something to do with ships . . no, that’s not it . . but there are errands
of mercy to the ends of the earth, bearing succor to the helpless . . I feel
the presence of marching men, the creak of straining leather, the maelstrom of
a conflict that’s not waged with bullets. What am I trying to tell you? It’s
a sacred confusion. Nevertheless, something’s Out Yonder . . beyond a Blaze
of Radiance 1"
After a moment of silence Beryl murmured, " . . horse's hoofs sounding
suddenly across a drawbridge at midnight! . . a bugle-call sharp and clear
across lavender starlight! . . massed flags and a wreath . . a bright wreath . .
for sorrow . .
. "
what a strange little person. I asked, "Do you sense what I mean?"
She responded, "Of course. Why else am I here?"
She arose, crossed to my studio piano beneath the atelier window and
let her fingers wander idly over Fifth Nocturne.
"I’m trying to remember something," I cried brokenly, "remember some-
thing forward!"
"Do you think that any of us go through anything in life that’s not
On the Program?"
"Tapping typewriter keys!" I protested hotly. "Writing silly stories
of synthetic people! Telling grown-up play-children how to antic before a
camera! What a life!"
" . . we go through many wars," mused Beryl, "but there's only one
peace. Out Yonder’s a big place, and yet so few find it. Something came to
me once when I was deep in your novel, The Fog, . „ it's difficult to say . .
life itself is a bivouac, you know. The war never ceases. But . . sometimes
in starlight we catch a glimpse of That Peace Which Might Be . . perhaps that
Will Be, after all the poems and the crosses . . when those of us who are
called to fight The Big Fight realize that after all it's more or less of a
movie plot — that the real life, the real conflict, exists in that true real-
ity that silly folk term dreams — "
"Go on," I begged her. She had paused.
"You've got a Commission waiting for you Out Yonder. You're going
through all of this to burnish your equipment."
"You talk a lot at times like a woman I knew out in San Francisco a
L
121
couple of years ago.”
"I heard you murmur something once about Big Drums. Could you feel a
thrill at thought of then if you hadn't known them . . somewhere . . or weren't
to know them at sometime in future?"
"I wasn't referring to literal drums."
"How do you know you weren't?"
"You m-nean . . you think . . I nay become part of another Great War?"
"I said there was only one war. Whenever has it ended? It pauses and
resumes. At least that's how I see it."
"You're trying to tell me something but don't really dare."
"That's right. I don't dare."
I was horridly restless. The drums of conviction were astoundingly real.
"Somehow'," I said, with a wave of my hand toward the littered table's manu- ■
aripts, "all this seems like . . tampering with Reality."
" . . or perhaps," Beryl whispered, "it's writing yourself invitations
to be present at your own Award for Valor . . to keep a date with Inevitable
Certainty."
"Sometimes I feel that I'm just making a mess of everything."
"Yes, even Napoleon had his suicidal moments, believing that he had
failed."
"But I'm not Napoleon!"
"That's not for you to say. Has it never occurred to you that perhaps
there can be Napoleons who have their St. Helenas at the beginnings of their
careers? That’s why they mayn't recognize themselves."
I said, "It's funny, you coming here all the way from Iowa and talking
to me like this."
"At least it's better than a convent," this little five-foot person res-
ponded mischievously. Then her eyes lifted to the northern window where the
nimbus of Times Square was aglow/ on clouds of evening.
"Have you ever felt urges toward a convent?"
"I've felt urges to peace. I'm forty-six years old."
"You've come to a funny place for peace."
She arose and stood against the window, face turned away from me. Her
voice held no mischief as she said, "Sometimes there are those of us who can
find their greatest peace near another person's tumult." An instant later she
added, " — providing that we can aid them."
"You're a queer person, Beryl. Where is Out Yonder?"
She said, "Where the picture-plots all end, and the Dreaming True begins."
"Anyhow, there's a bigger job for me to do than I'm doing here." I was
dogged about it. It was gnawing like a cancer,
"Yes, and you'll do it. You've made the first real step toward it.
That's what I wanted to tell you when I didn't quite dare."
After she had left for the night I tried to figure it out. I began to
ponder at the strangeness of Life's Tapestry — if there was a Tapestry.
Was the Pattern all prescribed for us, in every instance? An evening
moth found its way into my studio and crawled upon my desk-top, Could it have
been possible that fifty trillion years ago it had been prescribed that this
particular moth should live in the year 1922, fly in at my window at exactly
that moment, wobble across my blotter? Yet if something of the order were not
so, the world must all be Chance . .
Yet the planet did not encircle the sun by chance, Where then did divine
prescription leave off, Cosmic Blueprints cease to natter, Chance enter in?
What might this Out Yonder be , , but a snatched look at one's Blue-
print? . .
I had a dote with Destiny.
My soul-qualns were my stage-fright 1
122
CHAPTER TWELVE
N THE terminology of moving pictures and picture making, there is the thing
known as a "sequence1
1 , . A sequence is a
. scene or a series of scenes meant
to he photographed in one location or upon one stage-setting and concerned
in the main with the one group of characters. It is a definite period within
the development of the theme that stands distinctly alone, hut whose wider and
deeper significance is only appreciated when fitted or joined in an order that
makes the narrative.
Life, I began to perceive, was not unlike the construction of a photo-
play. It had its sequences, or series of sequences, miniature life-spans in
themselves, concerned with one location, one stage-setting, one group of char-
acters. These played out the appropriate segment of the drama, and when it had
been photographed on the film of the Spirit, their locations were abandoned, the
settings quickly "struck", the cast first brought together by the Great Director
excused to stay excused. So it had been with me. I could not have avoided it.
Retrospecting — as I was constantly called upon to do for material, in
the nature of my vocation — combing my own experience for dramatic ideas and
situations, I was frequently appalled at the completeness of the "shooting" in
the sequences that had made up the life I had lived.
Shakespeare wrote, "All the world's a
. stage, the men and women in it only
players, and each man in his time plays many parts." It was not the playing of
so many parts that disquieted me. It was the intensity of my relationships as
those sequences were playing and the utter nonchalance with which, in the wake
of a given undertaking of Spirit, the players as a group disintegrated, went
their ways, cared little or nothing for subsequent karma. Saying that I did
not hold my friends when made would not be a justified description of this oddity.
It was more that I seemed to function as a type of human lodestone, strongly
drawing and fastening personalities in a ganglion about me so long as I was pres-
ent. But immediately that I moved along, such coagulations dropped apart.
I owned to no childhood background that could form a basis for life en-
durances with the boys and girls who had started out with me in school — father
had lived in too many places in his neanderings. Besides, his demands on my
time, even as a child and later as a youth helping him in his business, and my
own application to my amateur printing activities, had permitted no interludes
for the normal pursuits and recreations of boyhood end. adolescence. Then had.
come the factory, the affair with Mabel, finally marriage. Chicopee, Wilming-
ton, Bennington, had been high-pressure sequences played by different sets of
characters. When they closed, they closed. There were few loose ends. No per-
sons but Marion had lapped from one over into the other. Moreover, to each of
these sequences I seemed to turn a differont facet of my own maturing personal-
ity. This amounted to a feeling at times that I could not possibly be the sane
person who had. played his previous roles. The lad who had been in the factory
with father was not the fellow who had. tried to elect that insufferable French
mayor. The person who had coaxed Frank Howe's duplex press into performance
in the Banner office was a totally different individual who had stood near Ad-
miral Kolchak at Sunday morning at Irkurtsk, As for the Caledonian and Manhat-
tan experiences since, they might have been a series of rooms through which I
had passed, each one done in a
. different motif, filled with different groups of
people none having common interest with those in previous chambers. Was I odd
in this respect? People who had come and gone in my life had a storybook as-
pect. While they lived, the book wa.s in process of readirg. With the final
chapter arrived at, they become weirdly abstract. I thought no less of them
than I had thought before, but immediately I knew a strange sense of detach-
ment — I had somehow graduated from then, left then behind. Many times I had
123
no desire to leave then "behind. Quite the reverse. I would often strive to
maintain the contact. Kismet would defeat me. They became beloved faces in
baskets of daguerreotypes — and the archives of my spirit were filled with
such baskets.
(VERYL struck the keynote in the sequence that now opened.
& She was a soft-spoken, dove-eyed, piquant little person. She, like Lil-
lian, had cone in at a tangent, played a swift, vital, altogether mystical
part, and letter died suddenly under an intestinal operation. But while she
was with me she effected severely tailored suits and pince-nez glasses. She
had an upturned nose and a dimple in her chin. I called it a
. Christian Endea-
vor nose. She called her dimple her Mark of Satan. From her viewpoint, in
the glamorous movie role I was now essaying, her association with me held the
call to high adventure. I dictated whole books of screen plots and adaptations
of stories to her as swiftly as I could talk them, striding the floor for hours
at a time. Once I dictated a 100,000 word screen novel to her in three days
and she never missed a comma. She had little of Lillian's theraputic irony.
Behind the character of her fortitude was a strain of the awestruck little
girl being admitted in this saga to a gaudily-bannered circus.
The male acquaintances who now came and went through my affairs knew
Beryl as a staid little spinster who handled my business with deadly efficiency.
If impoverished actor friends bethought to strike me for loans, it was always
to Beryl that they first told their story — to win themselves her sympathy.
If she took a violent dislike to a
. person, I ultimately found that her approx-
imation of their designs upon me was correct. It wa.s more than just a
, job to
her, handling this detail into which my affairs expanded. There are people
who are pivots in any man's concerns. Beryl was a pivot. The role was her
meat and her appetite was ravenous.
Strange, strange, e.re these quiet, seemingly-colorless, spinster women.
Frequently they have more flaming audacity, more splendorful courage, more
reckless pursuance of the elusive element that is sometimes called Romance than
the most caloric platinum blonde. It wa.s neither nurse nor mentor that I re-
quired in this sequence I now entered. I merely wanted someone who could fol-
low behind me and pick up and conserve the nuggets laid open to the sunlight
by the ploughshares of my venturings. And Beryl was that person. Locked be-
hind her china.-blue eyes, small snubbed nose, and dimpled chin, was the temper-
ament of one who in another age would have disguised herself as a page-boy and
shipped with Jason in his quest for the Fleece, offered a concubine to Marco
Polo in order to see the wonders of Ca.thay, donned platinum armor and fought
for the Dauphins of any age — providing her bonnet rippled plumes to her waist.
Five years of such sprightly camaraderie we had and then the trails parted as
abruptly as they had come together. She is now but a name on a Sioux City
tombstone. She may be no further away from me than the hand on my wrist.
So a studied caprice now seized me to utilize this interva,l to travel
my country. As Beryl watched my practical affairs for weeks at a time, I ac-
quired a ponderous high-powered car and rode the horizons with swashbuckling
rapacities. It seemed that nothing less than a fever came on me to poke and
pry my way into every corner of this nation, to find ny way about every Amer-
ican city by an utter familiarity with its landmarks, to know every Main Street
by the chippings on its curbstones. I knew that the cupola, of the Union Paci-
fic station at Cheyenne, Wyoming, held a
. broken window; that the cartracks out
of Wheeling, West Virginia, to the south, ran so close to the river that some-
day they might slide over and take passengers with them; that the most restful
spot in the nation was the pateo pool at Capistrano Mission; that ghosts could
still be seen on the St. Augustine slave-block; that the bridge-lamps over the
124
Chippewa liver at Eau Claire, Wisconsin, held five globes each. Silly things
to know. Yet somehow or other, these came to my attention.
I knew rural New England, Dutch Pennsylvania, the tall spires of Mary-
land in early morning sunshine. I had seen the sandy Carolina,s, known how the
white flies fell on Dallas in August, heard the shuttle of reapers in Kanse.s
wheatfields. I had watched the mists lift from the base cfNiagara,, or remarked
on the ha.zo of golden afternoon in the quiet of the Ozarks. I had smelled the
stockyards stench in the Sioux City 1
1jungle" or the sweetness of a night in old
Virginia while the magnolia.s were in flower. From the beauty of the Hudson at
nest Point to the bizarre .apparition of an Apache Indian, his blanket-protected
head grotesque appearing in the siss of a New Mexican sandstorm, America was
my pocket and her loveliness ny heritage.
Seven times across my country I made the motor-trek in the years that
now followed; seven times seven I rode to and fro, up and down from North to
South, From the market-gardens of southern Michigan, washed by sweet rain of
an April afternoon, to the wastes about Cisco, Utah., rakish with cacti, where
no rain had fallen for a
,
t let
ast forty years, my homeland narrowed swiftly to an
intimate backyard. I came to know the stores along Nicolette Avenue in Minnea-
polis, and the historical structures along the Rue Royale in old New Orleans.
I found myself as much at home in the White River Gorge behind Pikes Peak as in
the House of Seven Gables in weatherbeaten Salem. The Alamo and FaneuilHall,
Custer's Battlefield on the Little Big Horn, how George Washington1s hat and
cape looked, hanging in the entry-way of his Valley Forge headquarters, Lin-
coln's iron casket behind the monument grate at Springfield, Illinois, Chicago
with its lights lit, cold gale on Mojave just before sunrise, Victory atop the
Circle Monument in the heart of Indianapolis — yes, all were my heritage.
I could drive into any town of size from Baltimore to Sea.ttle, know where
to garage my car and find the right eating-house before it closed for the night.
From the lakes of New Hampshire to the waterless Rio Grande I could pass rainy
Sabbaths without becoming homesick. Homesick? For what? The nation was ny
home. Withal I came in bctwecn-tines and hibernated in Greenwich Village or
labored in Hollywood. And not only movie plots poured out. I wrote twenty-
two stories for Red Book in a sequence. In 1924 appeared ny third novel, Drag.
In all, I either wrote or supervised twenty-one screen productions in Holly-
wood — for a compensation of nearly one hundred thousand dollars — and had
them all behind me when the "talkies" cone in.
It was a wild, restless, exotic period. Just as Kismet had forced me to
go out to Siberia in war-time, so now my brevet commanded me to know America
like my studio. For I had to know America. America was my studio. It was
necessary for me to bog to my hubs on an Indian Reservation in Arizona as to
skid on the gumbo flats of South Dakota — or crack up in an airplane by forced
night-landing over Fredericksburg, Virginia. It brought the hazards and the
unity of Great America home to me. It schooled me in psychologies of its mul-
ticolored sectionisms. I knew the problems of the maple sugar makers in Ver-
mont as I knew the locust ravages in the San Joaquin valley of middle Califor-
nia — or the quandaries of stockmen in drought-riven Texas. I had been start-
led awake by the cry of the heron in the Florida Everglades, or known the eerie
clunk of some midnight oil-pump in the Louisiana bayous. My life was not the
kind of life that was "lived in my children" . . I had designs to work out in
the excellent United States . .
I was scouting my country for ten thousand battlefields in a New Econ-
omics'. I was made to become intimate with America that I might serve her nobly.
At the sane time I was finding zest and enticement in being part of ne-
cromantic picture-making in that flamboyant wild-cat period when the original
Old Guard held all fronts. Names that are now but poignant traditions were
125
flesh pud. "blood, people to me, doing their antics, "battling their most terrible
enemy, Easily-Gotten Wealth. Where s.re they taking their studio calls at pres-
ent? Wallic Roid, Earle Williams, Milton Sills, Gladys Brockwell, Fatty Arbuckle,
Mabel Normand, Lew Cody, Theodore Roberts, the suo.ve Valentino, the inimitable
Chaney — for how many of the present generation do those names hold meaning?
A generation hence our progeny nay say, those were the actor-folk who delighted
our fathers. For no they have each gone to join the Great Cast under the Mas-
ter Director, plpying their roles like the troupers I knew them to be, as the
Technicians of Eternity leap to the thrilling order "LightsI’
1
I wrote scripts or vehicles for 3ert Lytell, Viola Dana., Ton Mix, Hoot
Gibson, Cullen Landis, Owen Moore and Bessie Love, Dick Batholness, Buster Col-
lier, Gertrude Astor, Betty Conpson, Colleen Moore. I had constant entrant to
the hones or affairs of such people as Henry Walthall, Chester Conklin, Mack
Swain, Kate Price, Ralph Graves, Dot Reid, Huntley Gordon, Theda Bara. I had
learned that the proper way to sell a story was to know the sweetie of your
director, to go off to lunch with your famous star in his makeup — and let him
pay for it — to be able to hail your producer by his first name on the wind-
swept veranda of a Santa Monica beach club. Pity the poor stenographers and
automobile salesman in Jamestown, N. Y. or Marion, Alabama, who sat up nights
writing screen things by lamplight. You had to be "one of the gang" . . a glam-
orous, cock-eyed, crazy gang, booze-lit and nonoy-drunk, children in Arabian
palaces of papier-mache .
Here was an entirely new business that I had mastered in months, that
put a little fortune of a hundred thousand dollars into ny hands, I say, before
I left it willfully. In New York I sat up and maintained a printing establish-
ment — The Pelley Press, at 39 West 8th Street — purposely to print the adver-
tising matter that disposed of my plots. I paid one artist eighty dollars a
week just to draw enticing pictures of scenes from these photoplays yet to be
screened. I started a pocket magazine called The Plot to keep this work of
mine before the movie magnates. I sold them with their own showmanship . .
"I Write 'Em, You Wreck 'Em" was the satirical slogan that I placed on
ny plot sheets. And the hysterical, dope-driven, competition-crazed personnel
of the studios took me at ny word. One of ny best bits of work — or so I con-
sidered it — was a modernization of The Feeding of the Five Thousand by the
little lad with five loaves and two fishes. I put a group of worldly, irres-
ponsible, pleasure-chasing millionaires on a yacht and na.de it strike a ledge
off Bar Harbor, Maine. Impaled there helpless upon it, beyond sight of land,
their radio gone to smash, fat larders of food finally diminished, all the bad
folk turned good and most of the "good" folks, bad. At length when their fam-
ine had then crawling on their knees, the biggest millionaire whose wealth
would not get him a ham sandwich, promised his Maker in a broken prayer that if
by some hook or crook his life could be spared, he would feed five thousand of
the earth's hungry every day of his life till the hour of his death. Presently
as though taking him up on that proposal, the Almighty caused a small boy to
pass that way in a launch, having aboard five loaves of honebaked bread and
two fishes. He thus supplied them with their first food in days and carried
back word that quickly wrought their rescue. The preachment was terrific and
the spiritual values obvious. I was paid $7,500 for that script, written in
two evenings. But arrived in the hands of a Jewish production crew, IT WAS ALL
ABOUT THE RUSSIAN CROWN JEWELS IN THE JAPANESE EARTHQUAKE! The millionaires
started for Japan instead of Europe. And the starvation sequence occurred in
sundry bank vaults under Tokio. Figure it out, I never could. The only thing
retained of ny story was its apt title, Torment! Of course there was no boy
with loaves and fishes.
"I'm telling you something," declared a particularly offensive little
126
Jew to no, when I later encountered, him at a Hollywood, party. "Ve ain’t nrkin’
it noon-pitchers about your bastard. Christ nor his loafs and. fishes. Vat ve vant
it in noon-pitchers is logs. Understand ne? . . legs! . , vinnin1s legs! Ven
ve get done vid you Christians, I guess you find out vy ve got it control of
movies, and it ain’t to preach no sernons in a church. I’m telling you! Better
ve should put every goy girl in a whorehouse, and by gott you’ll like it!”
The fleshpots of Hollywood, Oriental custodians of adolescent enter-
tainment. One short words for all of it -
-
Do you think ne unduly incensed about then? I’ve seen too nany Gentile
maidens ravished and been unable to do anything about it. They have a concupis-
cent slogan in screendon, "Don't hire till you see the whites of their thighs!”
I know all about Jews,
For six years I toiled in their galleys and got nothing but money.
The Pelley Press, gave up ny Greenwich Village studio, and noved up
to the seclusion of Newburgh-on-the Hudson to do ny novel, Drag. I had all the
money which a reasonable nan could want. I had unhampered freedom to work out
ny urges. My two closest friends of sizable affairs were John S. Siddall of
The American Magazine, and Warren S. Stone, president of the Four Trainmen's
Brotherhoods. Nov/ death took then both! . .
All through ny resuscitation of The Caledonian, ny odessys of travel, ny
Hollywood vagaries, I had never ceased writing for John. But from tine to time
as I had contacted him, I had noted how my bold bluff friend was failing physi-
cally. When I reached New York from California after hearing of his death, I
got the heroic story.
He had long since consulted expert physicians and learned that he was
afflicted with cancer of the stomach. He had even been told tho exact day and
date on which his life would terminate. Friends learned afterwards that he had
sworn the doctors and his wife to secrecy, then gone about his job as if noth-
ing was amiss. He had passed on a Monday. Up to the prior Saturday noontime
he had worked in his office, enduring the tortures of the damned internally
with never a murmur escaping his lips, finished the current issue of the na.ga-
zine, cleaned his desk, lowered the curtains to the sane height on all the
office windows, shaken hands with the staff, and gone hone to Transition. It
was the same intestinal vigor in dealing with life, worked out in his own case,
that he had incessantly preached tp American readers throughout his editorial
John had been succeeded, I presently loa.rned, by a former staff contrib-
utor like myself, one Merle S. Crowell, a husky, football-player type of person
with white eyebrows, a native of Maine who had drifted down to New York and done
newspaper work till John took him on.
But Merle quickly made it evident that he had his own ideas as to how
The American Magazine should be conducted, and the fact that I had antedated
him or been equally in John’s confidence, gave ne no special privilege to offer
advice or expect any breaks. The most fatal thing to remark to Merle, we writ-
ers quickly learned, was "John would have bought this manuscript, we wrote him
so many like it.” I exercised my prerogative on one particularly exasperating
occasion and told him that as an editor I considered hin a bust . . he was
nerely rattling around in John Siddell's boots. One by one the country's lead-
j e w s '
.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
ND now, a prelude to a Symphony . .
\ Such dizzy maneuvering, of course, could not go on forever. In 1925 I
career
127
in -fictionists began to drop away and leave hin alone.
"I hear Crowell's got hin a new fiction editor," a literary friend re-
marked to ne subsequently. He's given us up as temperamental freaks and turned
us over to a woman to handle."
A few days later I sent a
, new manuscript up to this lady. Promptly came
a letter. Would I call by and see her? I commuted down from Newburgh and sent
in ny card. I remember that it was just before lunch-tine that I thus intro-
duced myself. Then I paced the reception room, glanced at current magazines,
nursed ny stick between ny knees. Presently I heard a soft voice say at my
shoulder, "How do you do I I'm so glad you came up."
I arose quickly from the divan and glanced into the eyes of The Ameri-
can's new fiction editor. She did not look like an editor at all,
I faced a woman in her late thirties, with rich copjoer hair, intelli-
gent brown eyes, a nose and chin like Dante's 'Beatrice' — the one you see
done in the art shops done in Carrara marble. She was slightly shorter than
I was, comely in her figure, with an eager sincerity that bespoke an Old Soul,
n
'
e talked conventionally a moment. Then she said, "I'll get my hat. We’ll go
somewhere for lunch."
\ |Y LIBE has been enriched by knowing three truly great women. The first was
■M Lillian. The second was the one who presently returned, her modish white
street costume standing off elegantly with the keen bronze of her hair. The
third? We must meet her as in life, when she steps upon my scene . . .
"Where shall we go?" asked Mary as we walked into the sunshine of 250
Park Avenue. She was Mary to me within a fortnight and never has been other-
wise through the years to this moment. I suggested the Plaza. We went up in a
cab and found an isol.ated corner in the tea-room,
"You've interested me," she said, "ever since your first story came into
The Delineator office when I was editor down there." She had a quick, nervous
intensity about adjusting this relationship, yet withal she was one of those
splendorful feminine souls whom I have come to designate as Noiseless.
She scuffed up no carpets in Life.
"Tell me why," I suggested, to make conversation.
"You're such a haren-scarem, hit-or-miss, erratic sort of workman. Yet
you can write so brilliantly when the inspiration's on you. Tell me about your-
self. Tell me everything there is to know!"
Mary did not go at this sort of thing along the average woman's promp-
tings to touch off masculine vanity. She really had an interest. It was part
of her job — or rather, her role.
I bantered, "Must I do it in an hour?"
"Oh bother the tine. Some of your stories have just , . emptied ny
heart. That 'Sunset Derby' horse story that's in the office now. I'm making
Merle take it. I think it's a classic."
"The Country Gentleman turned it down cold."
"They must have been crazy."
So I talked to Mary. Our luncheon consumed three hours. She too had
been born in Iowa, like Beryl, the daughter of a country doctor. She had mar-
ried her husband in Chicago, gone down into North Carolina that he night battle
a malady, brought him up to New York, and . . subsequently buried him. That
loss had struck deep. She was that type of colleague.
So it was not of the ordinary banalities of magazine don that we talked,
in that first fraught three hours, nor was it of myself. She had reached the
poised years when courage was not conscious. She saw life evenly. She viewed
it with calm eyes. And yet her ordeal had made her sweetly wistful. She had
all of Lillian's trenchant perception, Beryl's savorings of life with quaint
128
chivalries, but withal her own nonchalance that opened the doors on spirit-
vistas without creaking of the hinges to reveal that they were opened* What
I could not discern then, for there was no particular reason why I should, was
the steel wire of Karina that bound me to this lady, and both of us to the fe-
cund future. Mary was high voltage but safe current.
I knew that her apartment would never be littered with old magazines . .
"Wo must finish this talk say Sunday afternoon," she finally declared,
looking at her wrist-watch.
"Does it have to be finished?"
"Very much has to. You’re perilously close to soraethirg."
"Close to something? . . what?"
"That's to be determined. I don't have to associate with a man for a
period of years to discern when he’s , . well . , due to Break Through, Please
come up to my apartment in West Fifty-first Street next Sunday at three. And
now, call a cab."
What could she be meaning? I escorted her out again into sunshine. As
we rode down Fifth Avenue she patted my wrist.
"You need a certain coaching for what I sense ahead. I want to help.
I really do."
I paid off the cabman after she had gone up intothe American Magazine
office again, e„nd sauntered away. 3y all the ethics ofwriting andpublishing,
this bronze-headed lady was my Boss.
I knew she was not.
Not exactly my boss.
Somehow or other she was offering me a chalice . . or was it a cha.lice?
Was it not rather that very faint and far away I was subconsciouslydiscerning
the prelude to a symphony?
I walked afar in New York that September afternoon. What had she meant,
that prophetic Breaking Through?
And through to just what? . .
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
HAVE this data in Memory's Notebook concerning that Sunday: One of those
burnished days, keyed to fragrant coolness that descends on Manhattan with
the coning of autumn. The front room of a walk-up apartment just off the
Avenue in the Fifties. A room done in elusive tintings of oranges and garnets
against pristine whites and teakwoods, A rug on the floor from a palace in
Persia. A divan done in chintzes. Naked furniture dead black. Books flanking
the hearth. Over the mantel on the room's western end, a mirror such as Alice
might have climbed through to get into Wonderland. Candles in the mirror. Last
but not least, the hands of the clock pointing a quarter to midnight with Mon-
day in prospect. The fire was still burning to take off the chill.
Mary said, "Well, we don't seem to have arrived anywhere, do we?"
I said, appalled, "I've been sitting in this chair since five past
three o'clock."
"Please don't go yeti"
"But such a visit is insufferable."
"Why is it insufferable? If I hadn't wanted you to stay, don't you
think I'd have managed otherwise?"
I took a turn about the rug. She sat on the divan before the front
windows and looked at me thoughtfully. She was wearing a frock of black and
white, lace, with a loop of black beads which occasionally she nibbled. The
flickering embers of the fire put a sheen on her temple that was nearest the
129
grate. The cast of her head, the curve of the line from the ear-lohe to the
shoulder, the exquisite tracings of camaraderie at the corners of her eyes,
the pillow of throat and hoson, na.de her the most delectable ensemble that I
had closely known to date.
She appeared to no like a prina donna of spiritual fortitude as we sat
there with workaday morning waiting to got in. An editress? Fiddlesticks. She
was one of those rare women who occasionally stray down from the turrets that
gleam on empyrean mountains and wait at the crossroads of life as for a street-
car, because such is the practical conveyance of the moment. I had a brevet
with this woman that was not of the emotions . ,
"Tell me," I begged, "and then I must go, . . what did you mean at our
luncheon Friday when you said you sensed that I was due to Break Through?"
"You don't know very much about the world yet, do you?"
"I've found my way about it for quite a long time."
"Oh, you've gone places — yes. You've met different men and women.
But I don't mean a world of cabbages and kings. I'm speaking of the reasons
why you've come into it at all."
"Does anyone know why they've come here at all?"
She responded in a whisper, "I believe there are some who do. Quite
distinctly."
"Well, you night as well know my pet peeve at life. Despite all the
kind things you've said about my authoring to date, it isn't my job to be for-
ever writing fiction."
"No," she said thoughtfully, "probably not. And it's going to be too
bad. Because you're one of the few writers today who possesses the talent to
v/rite something that will live."
"It's kind of you to say so -
- "
"I'm not saying it from kindness. We editors keep track of writers of
promise. If you'd truly get down and work, not be so erratic . . Tell me, what-
ever made you take up with moving pictures?"
"To be absolutely truthful, I needed the money."
"Why should you need money? I know the prices that editors have paid
you. You need money! It's perfectly absurd."
"Well, it happened that I really did need money. My paper had tough
sledding while I was absent at war. Then I had twelve weeks of typhoid — "
"Why didn't you go back to stories?"
"After The Fog I was somewhat 'written out'."
"Or was it that a lot of things in your life were at sixes and sevens?
. . that your incentive was lacking, at least for the moment? That's truly
what slows up most writers, you know."
"Something of the sort perhaps. A man can't keep up a grind of master-
pieces the clock around."
"Who says he can't?"
"You think he can?"
"He can if he's got his life under control."
"You suspect that my life’s not under control?"
"Are you open to suggestion?"
"Decidedly," I said.
"I think you should put yourself under my care. You've got a big work
to do, and you'll do it. But you can't . . or won't . . Break Throtgh till
you've had more preparation. Oh I don't mean instruction in technique of
craftsmanship. You can give a lot of college professors on the short story
points on technique of craftsmanship right now. What I mean is, you've got . .
vacancies of spirit that you've got to have filled up. You'll get nowhere till
you've filled them. Anything olse is a tinsel construction. You've got to
130
learn quietly that life's not quite the "barren grade you've come to believe
it way down in your heart."
Verily all of it was not unlike what Lillian had said to me. But here
was a different sort of Lillian, a ladyship of frail porcelains and old crin-
olines, beautifully desirous of lifting me to prescience. I said —
"What do you think my real job is? You must have some idea."
"It'll come to you in time. You see . . we're not allowed to tamper."
She bit at her beads and looked into the fire.
What could she mean, tamper? And who was We?
"That sort of answer leaves me worse at sea than ever."
"I know. And I'll help. I might make you think that I'll do it for the
magazine. Well, perhaps I shall. But it's bigger than that. It's got to be
bigger. People who have a terrific work to do in this world are never prepared
for it by crass answers to conundrums. You see, people usually receive from
life just about what they’re ready for . . or rather, have made adjustments t®
receive. But I'll tell you the truth — you're never going to make those ad-
justments till you've met with a woman who fills your whole life. No, I don't
mean that. Put it the other way around. Till you fill a woman's whole life."
My face must have shown my morosity of spirit. Mary said quickly, "Oh
don't take it so hard. There's something very close to you, just around the
corner of the months. You probably won't recognize it for what it is when you
first perceive it. Pew men do, I find. And the more delicately organized they
are, the more terrible their blindness. But you've got to get submerged in
something. You've got to know a woman to whom you're so tremendously important
that her life has no room for anything else."
"I'm happier off without bothering with it," I said. It was a callow
sort of statement. "Clever women are an annoying distraction and the other
kind are . . obnoxious on principle."
"How many really clever women have you ever known?" She was smiling
sagely.
"At least one."
"What happened?"
"The time was out of joint."
Mary said, "A truly clever woman is clever enough not to let a man take
note that she's clever. It's a secret with herself." She arose as a signal
that at last I could go. "Tomorrow you bring me all the story manuscripts
you've got on hand. I want to look them over. After all, there's plenty of
time to discuss the philosophy of romance."
"I'd planned to go back to California next week."
She purs-ed1 those delicately molded lips. "Don't you think you're worth
it to yourself to try to find out whether or not you truly want to go?" . .
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
/ C a l i f o r n i a interlude* . .
J How could I know that on the Sabbath night which I thus spent for the firs
N— * time in Mary's apartment, a strange thing was happening in distant Cali-
fornia? As it is chronologically appropriate, let me insert it as it was later
told to me although I was in no wise a participant in it.
That evening in Pasadena held the lure of Elysium. The sky was clear
qjjanite with palm fronds etched sharply. The air held an edge. Headlamps of
motor cars glinted on pa.vements as clean as the floors of a well-ordered house.
Down from the Nurse's home of City Hospital came three women in white uniforms.
One wore r shoulder-cape that fell below her knees.
131
The trio walked, along under murmuring pepper-trees. In and out through
shadows cast from the arc lamps they wended their way, past low-eaved bungalows
built for loads of roses, down across Fair Oaks and Raymond Avenues, along Cal-
ifornia Street, up the grade to Marengo.
The woman in the center was taller than the others. She seemed con-
scious of her height and sought to avoid it, bowing her shoulders. She was
agile and rangey as a mountain doe in April. The riot of her softly dressed
hair marked out her features, resolution tempered. She walked as one who had
fended for herself, seized her opportunities, opened her own doors to manifest
achievement, snapped her strong fingers at both success and failure. A long
stride, a sure grasp, a rapacious consummation, withal a sure tenderness when
tenderness was merited — such was her caste and the role of her errand. She
walked with two companions and their frequent laughter blended with night zylo-
phones of katydids. And yet she walked as one who had ever walked alone. She
walked alone literally when her two companions left her at a street intersection.
Thereupon she quickened her step. She turned at length into Wilson Avenue. Into
a darkened bungalow she went, opened the door, snapped on the lights. Across at
the stairs she mounted to a chamber.
Swinging off her cape, she was about to cast it on the bed's white coun-
terpane when she seemed to pause. Listeningl Her tall body stiffened. Was
she hearing a Voice that vaguely addressed her? Her gray eyes showed disquiet.
Electrically a change came over the woman. She pulled out a suitcase and swung
it to a trunk-top. Hurriedly she emptied the contents of drawers. She took
down the frocks that hung in the closet. She filled the suitcase, she filled
the tray in the top of the trunk. Faster she worked, as though racing Time,
besting by her efforts something that was imminent.
The room was denuded of personal belongings, even to small pictures that
hung upon its walls. She fastened the baggage. The Voice that had spoken
soundlessly had said, "Leave here f
a
t once . . Get out tonight, . . now . . NOW!"
Or was it a voice? Many times in her life such warnings had come to her . .
they always spoke suddenly and not when expected.
She .carried her bag belowstairs, left money for her rent upon the table,
wrote a note for the family tha.t was obviously at church. Her trunk would be
sent for. Forth from the bungalow she hastened, carrying a suitca.se from which
a ribbon dangled. Up California Street she made her way. Where was she going?
She could only conjecture.
The suitcase was heavy and presently it slowed her. At the corner of
Marengo Avenue she came to a wall along a low embankment. She halted uncertain-
ly and set down the suitcase. Was it a foolish thing to do — leaving that
boarding place? Had subconscious caprice been the urge for her behavior?
She stood beneath the enfolding fronds of a palm tree. She had nowhere
to go. Whoever would receive her? But the night continued calm. Automobiles
purred past her. She raised her eyes to the star-studded heavens, each star a
deft jewel. At length she moved onward. Had those stars reassured her? . .
She crossed Marengo Avenue as one who might have had a friendly counsel-
lor with her and walked up a
. lawn to the door of a bungalow. A softly-toned
reading lamp burned inside the window. She mounted the deep stone veranda, and
her fingers found the bell. Why that house of all others? Until that fraught
interlude under the pa.lm-fronds she had not been aware of this bungalow's exis-
tence. A frail woman with sweet blue eyes in a carelined face, answered the
doorbell. The girl in the nurse's cape, with the head of rioting hair, addressed
her as one who might have known her always —
"Have you a room to rent in this house?"
"Why . . yes," the other answered, "however did you know?"
"I was sent here by a . . friend."
132
"It must have "been Miss Winslow. She only gave up this room this after-
noon. My husband’s work takes him off on the road. I rent two rooms, to have
someone here for company."
"Might I see the room at once, please?"
The motif of the living-room was deep-russet end walnut, the chairs and
the divan done in brown mohair. It was a broad, low, restful room, a fireplace
at the west end, a piano at the other. Once the door was closed on the night,
the applicant's nervousness left her.
"I'm Helen Hansmann," she introduced herself. "I'm a nurse at the Hospi-
tal."
"I'm Mrs. Leon Shaw. And this is my son Billie. And my daughter Marjorie.'
Billie Shaw consisted mostly of elbows, knees, and freckles. Marjorie was
a dark-eyed brunette, slightly the older. Mrs. Shaw continued —
"I only rent the two front bedrooms. One of them is taken on a sort of
permanent arrangement with an author-friend of ours, a man named Pelley. Per-
haps you've heard of him. He works in Hollywood when he's in California. Just
now he's in New York. He mayn't be back for weeks. He may walk in before to-
morrow night."
The name meant nothing to the tall nurse with the wondrous head of hair.
She wished to see the room and unpa.ck her suitcase.
"I can't understand how you knew about the room," Mrs. Shaw said later.
"I've never offered it publicly for rent."
The other laughed raggedly to cover her nervousness. "I was sent here,"
she repeated. "Someday I'll explain it. I don't quite understand it myself
yet. But . . those things do happen."
"Isn't she funny'." commented Marjorie in the kitchen, from the yard-stick
wisdom of her seventeen summers.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
OBODY ever remembers who writes a magazine story. The story may be re-
called, but its author remains a Name.
Two hundred and twenty published narratives — fiction enough to fill
thirty volumes of the ordinary novel length — was my record in the period
when I made ny living by popular writing.
I had mastered my craft, and knew it. There were four different text-
books on the American short story containing specimens of my work, acclaimed
as examples of dramatic construction so perfect that college students must
analyze them as part of their courses in English. I could command a
. hundred
dollars an hour for every hour that I would apply myself to my typewriter and
engage in composition. Not once in those thirty volumes had I ever plagiarized
from myself or used the same plot twice. I had traveled a
. long way from those
nights on Jefferson Avenue when I hastened home from The Banner office for long
evenings of typing and perfecting ray technique.
Nobody ever remembers who writes a magazine story, I say. I have encoun-
tered hundreds of persons who have not forgotten the snail-town chronicles of
S
a
r
a Hod and his partner while conducting The Daily Telegraph in the mythical
hamlet of Paris, Vermont. And uniformly the stories that I so produced after
meeting Mary are those which people mention as outstanding in their memories.
Such narratives as The Face at the Window, The Man Who Lived in Eternity Now,
Life is to Find Out, The Man Who Believed in God, Ask Any Father, Nellie Stov-
er's Great Moment, The Continental Angle, and An Eagle Flies the Night, brought
such approbation from magazine readers that out of a poll taken at one time by
the publishers of The American, ny work drew fifty percent of the votes, the
133
other fifty being scattered among a score of contemporaries. I do not write
thus to indulge ny own bombast. I write to give credit for such a metamorpho-
sis to the very noble gentlelady who forthwith became my literary shepherdess.
Mary proved to be one of those unique and all-too-rare mentors for a
writing-nan who could not concoct a plot of her own to save her lovely soul
from the pit of the grotesque. But her sense of what was appropriate and ex-
quisite in the work of another lifted her above the role of an editress and
made her a Minerva only lacking an Olympus. She had a strange knack of pounc-
ing on some literary exercise that I night have consigned to the wastebasket
and exclaiming, "You've got something there! . . don't let it get past you!"
while her finger went unerringly on the slightest sag in quality. And her kind-
ness was commensurate. No ma.tter how bedimmed her eyes with work or worry, or
how pained her sweet spirit, she always had time for the eager perusal of a man-
uscript that contained the least merit. Her supreme joy was in discussing a
literary creation before ever the words commenced to flow on paper. Long after
we had arrived at the brother-and-sister stage of professional, camaraderie, I
would often leap from ny chair in her apartment with the exclamation, "Mary,
I've got an idea!" and I would proceed to describe some inspirational flash
that under her cooperating criticism would presently be spreadbefore two mil-
lion readers in ways that not infrequently altered their lives — I have hun-
dreds of such attestnents.
It is difficult to write baldly of the friendship that now followed be-
tween this lady and myself. It became more than a counselling in literary
technique. Our tastes and inclinations were so delicately in common, we Worked
and played so much together in that subsequent interlude, we each had quandar-
ies in our private affairs that invited interchange of confidences, that as the
weeks and months went past each began to assume the a.spect of an institution in
the life of the other. Later, when I stepped Through the Door and knew lambent
Reality, it was this same sister-companion who kept her strong hand steady on
ny wrist, who cautioned me to splendors beyond earthly finding out. A truly
great woman! It is a topsy-turvy world when such as she, with her great gifts
to pour out on befuddled humanity in the throes of would-be artistic expression,
could not have arrived at the patrona.ge to permit her to give of herself to the
utmost. A five-and-ten-cent-store heiress may have twenty million dollars to
squander on some titled fop who never did a
.
n honest day's work in his life, and
a soul like Mary's is compelled to keep a hand on the pulse of the commercial
in order to be able to function at all.
I did not return to California, that week. I did not return to California
until 1926. Something besides an interest in my newly-found counsellor was res-
ponsible for a delay that later grew to months, I dropped into Larry Giffen's
office one noontime and ho said, "Do you want to do a special job that may get
you in right with some worthwhile people down in Washington?"
"What sort of job?"
"A movie man named Berman came up from the Capital la.st week where he'd
been making some film studies of the President for Mrs. Coolidge. Somehow he
got thrown in touch with officials on the Federal Penal Boa.rd. He learnt that
there's agitation on in Congress for proposed legislation to install a more
humane work-progran in our federal penitentiaries — the prisoners are going
screwy for want of work to fill their time. So the idea is, that if a
. film
could be made and released, bringing to public attention the condition in such
prisons, it might speed such legislation through the House and Senate."
"What am I supposed to do?"
"I think I can get you the job of writing the necessary story. Anyhow,
you can find out the details by going down and interviewing the late President
Harding's brother-in-law — who heads up the penal board."
134
It was curiosity to engage in a new exploit that made ne take the train
that night for Washington in company with the scenario editor of the outfit who
night later sponsor the film in production. I have never ceased to marvel that
the incidents in life that have thrown the biggest switches have been those that
introduced themselves "ns a cloud no bigger than a man's hand" — coning into my
career as from a tangent and certainly not planned with malice aforethought.
I was confronted now by such an incident. We put up at The Castleton for the
balance of that night and sauntered forth next morning to interview Mr. Votaw.
His office was located in the old Department of Justice Building on the corner
of Vermont Avenue and K Street.
I discovered him to be a
. ponderous, gra.y~ha.ired man with a pile-driver
jaw but a gentle voice, as befitted one who had stores of energy kept in well-
controlled reserve. "I'm going to turn you over to one of my younger men," he
said, when our conference on the proposed film had extended till long past lunch-
time. "He's better versed than I an, in just what should be filmed." , *
He pressed a button.
Presently I was being introduced to a youngish, bald-headed, crisply-
spoken person whose contact with intricate federal matters being pursued behind
Department of Justice walls left little to be conjectured. I quickly discovered
that he was a reader of The American Maga.zine and conversant with my writings.
Late that night I founi myself ensconced in a secluded corner of the National
Press Club with this Department of Justice executive and a friend — a Washing-
ton press correspondent now gathered to his forebears.
"Huh," exclaimed this D-J nan, ale making him talkative, "it isn’t a film
of conditions in our federal penitentiaries that this country needs. It's a
film of the work being pursued by a wholly different tribe of burglars who ought
to be in our pens but aren't. My gawd, Pelley, what a fellow in your position
couldn't do to all this skullduggery if you'd get the bald facts and then turn
loose your pen."
"And get us all hung!" exclaimed the Capital press-nan,
"What sort of skullduggery?" I prompted my new friend.
"You tell him, Hal. Tell him what you were growling at, this noontime."
Hal cast a nervous glance around to make certain that no one lurked with-
in earshot. "Young Teddy Roosevelt shot his mouth off up in the Army & Navy
Club last night. Hell's going to be to pay. It nay pop any moment. Secretary
Fall's gunned up in a deal with Harry Sinclair and Old Man Doheny, giving away
the nation's oil reserves for then two magnates to exploit. I'm telling you,
Pelley, the country's duo for a rocking that'll make the Frisco earthquake sound
like a mere pavement-rumble under a passing furniture van. Still, that's not
the point."
"No? What is the point?"
"When it cones . . the Teapot Done explosion . . don't let yourself be
fooled. There's a gang down here fixing to promote that scandal to the limit
and it's deeper than enemy sharpshooting at two oil-men. There'll be something
else they're up to, but the country never'11 know it unless someone like your-
self 'stumbles on it by accident'."
"Go on, I'm listening."
"You'll hear a great fanfare and ballyhoo about stealing the nation's
oil. It'll be a yowling smokescreen for something far rottener. Don't ask me
how I know. We correspondents get around. But . , I've got a hunch, let's put
it . . that there's a
. condition over in the Treasury . . there's a looting going
on over there in the redemption of various issues of Liberty Bonds . , which if
brought to the attention of the American people might crash the whole structure
of our federal finance!"
I glanced from face to face. Here were hard-headed and somewhat cynical
nen of political Washington who did not treat with gossipings or backyard hocus-
135
pocus. Whereupon one of them continued —
"Hording discovered it, just after he took office. I understand he had
twenty crack investigators running it down and proving it up,"
"What did they find?"
"Well, it hasn't come to light yet. But it may. In case it should come
to light, it can be discounted and made of snail interest providing there's a
bigger cannonade going on over something like this fuss between the Navy and
Harry Sinclair. So the thing to do is to rivet the nation*s attention on this
scandal in oil, make Secretary Denby the goat, and then if this Liberty-Bond
ness gets out from undercover, it'll cone in anti-clinax and end up a dud."
"Tell me about this 'Liberty Bond mess'."
"As I get it, The Treasury Gang has had a bunch of burglars in there,
paying off Liberty Bonds and then putting them back into circulation. I under-
stand there1s an un ;odly ness of fake bonds going out as well. They travel the
circle and cone back for redemption* The Gang sees they're paid again, and
pockets the swag,"
"You mean they're not being redeemed and cancelled?"
"That's the lay as I get it. And no one to check on 'em. Somebody car-
ried word of the steal to Harding and he put twenty crack investigators on the
job. How much has been looted, God only knows."
"And what did Harding find out?"
"Harding didn't find out anything. Harding*s DEAD," said my informant
with a suggestive glance at his companion,
"I*n telling you, Pelley," the other carried on, "there are things going
on behind the scenes of this government so damned sizable and audacious that not
one man in ten thousand has got the brains to grasp it,"
"Such as?" I demanded. I was getting an education . ,
"There's a crowd of us here who still have some decency and patriotism
left, who've come to accept that a crowd of Jew financiers — mostly from Lon-
don, Paris, and Frankfurt, the Joke Schiff mobl — have put their heads together
to take this country for a ride. If somebody don't stop 'em they'll ruin our
credit system, crash the stock-market, beggar all our people, and then take over
our natural resources exactly as we all thought Germany would do, if we failed
to win the war,"
Jews againj My companions ordered more drinks all around . .
"The hell of it is," continued my informant, "they'll set about accomplish-
ing it so smoothly, so adroitly, it*ll never be suspected till it's too late to
help it. They'll do it under the disguise of being big-shot American citizens
engaged in the most ordinary political and financial maneuvers. But they'll do
it. And they'll probably blame it on something like 'world-wide economic condi-
tions' ."
I interrupted to ask for specific names. I got them. Plenty.
"We were jimmied into the war and added our resources to the Allies in
France. That made the war end wrong — at least for the mob in Germany. It
compelled Germany to pony up for the cost of it. Germany, of course, had no
way of ponying up, excepting to tax her industries and the fortunes of her
magnates. And who were those magnates? The same sweet Jew bunch that we've
got right here in Y/ashington. But instead of fighting the terns of the peace
treaty, or letting themselves bo bankrupt by the reparations, they set their
agents going in America and get the cash for such payments as the Allies force
them to make, out of the pockets of the very people who are insisting on collec-
tions. Is that neat or isn't it?"
"It's neat," I agreed. I was doing a lot of thinking . .
"Do you think those big yiddishers over on the Continent are submitting
to any confiscation of their German assets to meet reparations payments, and all
136
that tommyrot, like a lot of spanked school kids? Don’t he a sap, For every
dollar that the United States government wrests .away from then, they can put
their agent-burglars to work over on this side of the Atlantic and take two
out of our Federal Reserve for transmission hack to then. They'll p-- across
our share of the German war reparations with our own money — if they pay 'em
at all. There's other ways of squaring the war, or even being recompensed for
a licking, than by open demands laid down in a peace treaty."
"That brings up the Jewish Question in a different guise," I said. "I
encountered it first during my war-hitch in Siberia. Later in Hollywood I've
heard plenty about what the Jews are going to do to Christian America if we give
them the opening."
"Going to do!" exclaimed my loquacious friends. "Now that we've blabbed
this much, I'll tell you some more. The Federal Reserve system is nothing but
a cunning Jew trick to collect all our Gentile money into bank pools everywhere
in the nation so that instead of being handy to liquidate panics, it can be con-
served in reservoirs of wealth to finance Jew maneuvers all over the universe.
Oh I know they put a lot of Gentiles at the head of the Federal Reserve. But
that's only camouflage. They're only there as fall-guys. I'm telling you
there's an Unofficial Government being set up here in Washington. Every nan
who's in a key position, or worth his powder and shot as an Influence, either
has his alter-ego in this Invisible Government, or has an agent of that Invisi-
ble Government assigned to him to see that he performs as his Jew bosses want
him. He may not always know it. He may act in sincerity according to his con-
victions. But if you knew the big-shots here in Washington who are operating
right now by the blackmail that's put on them, it'd jolt your back teeth. The
whole thing's a steal. And rapidly getting worse,"
"I wouldn't be surprised."
"Don't take my word for anything. Dig in and investigate. You're a
free lance. A bird like you can do it."
"I haven't given much attention to Washington till now. I haven't many
contacts here."
"We'll give you the contacts — all the contacts you want. You're real
difficulty won't be the accuracy or size of your findings. It'll be in getting
anyone to believe that such a plot is real. Average citizens have little one-
cell minds. Most of 'em are too scrambled over their own affairs, making a
living, to have time or inclination for the government's troubles. That's why
the steal is so criminally easy. Besides, Julius Caesar said a long time ago
that it's difficult to get the popular mind to believe that which at heart it
doesn't want to hear — "
" — and don't forget Machiavelli," broke in the other,
"What about Mac?"
"He put it, 'How perilous it is to free a people who prefer to be slaves.'"
"Well, anyhow, the size of it is the perfect protection for what's now
in progress. Imagine trying to get the rank and file of our people to believe
that there's a European Gang operating right here in their Capital, looting the
country blind, fixing things so that inside of ten years twenty million people
nay be workless, banks closed or wrecked, business slowed down so that every-
body's broke, everyone gutted in their properties and securities . . imagine
asking the American people to believe that such a gang's operating here for ex-
actly that end, promoting it daily, and that it stands every chance in the
world for putting it across. Imagine it, I tell you. Yet watch the next ten
years. You're going to see it happen!"
The hands of the clock went around to nine, ten, eleven o'clock. Still
we sat talking. Using the vernacular, "here were men who knew their stuff".
And I made the most of that epochal evening.
"‘
where does Cal Coolidge sit in all this?" I asked around midnight.
137
Hal laughed crassily. "Asking my opinion, Coolidge came cheese-paring
into his adminsitration and is being allowed to have a thrifty, untampered-
with hitch while the schemers watch to see whether the Liberty-Bond filch is
coning to light. They may let Coolidge run till the end of his term with noth-
ing of more consequence turning up than this Teapot Dome stink. But you watch
the man who follows him. See if mysterious antics in finance and diplomacy
don't start up at once. See if a wail doesn't bust out from Germany sooner or
later, pleading for a moratorium on the war debts. Sure! The burglars who've
used our Federal Reserve money pools to finance all their cock-eyed Jew schemes
overseas, won't give back a cent of what they've fanaggled from us by 'loans' . .
and if my guess isn't wrong, we're only a couple of presidents away from a com-
plete alteration in our government. The Jews 'll come in, and the Gentiles 'll
go OUT. If Jews come in, it means we get Communism."
All the old Siberian sickness cane back, as I sat in that club and heard
the plan unfolded. That young Russian mother against the pillar in the station
at Irkurtsk! . .
"I bet you," went on the D-J nan, "that they contrive to get our country
into such a financial and economic plight — the way the Federal Reserve is now
shoveling out our dough abroad — - that a nitwit congress will stand for anything,
assent to any kind of legislation, just to bring relief. Somebody's got to do
something about all this, Felley, or sooner or later our nation's due to crash.
And when a nation crashes, IT MEANS REVOLUTION. You say you were in Russia.
Then you've seen what I'm promising."
"I'm not big enough to do it," sighed Hal with a hiccough. "But sooner
or later shomebody musht!"
What were the Big Drums that beat so suddenly and portentously.
, in my
spirit?
W
AS ALL this motion-picture business more pattern for my Tapestry? Had I
gone into this glamorous Hollywood sequence just to bring me to this table
and have these two men sound a tocsin to my brevet? What was I to think, months
and even years later, when I recalled that no film was ever made to create pub-
lic sentiment for work in federal prisons? The project never materialized be-
cause Congress suddenly made the required appropriation and the photoplay was
unrequired as national propaganda.
At the time, however, I thought that I had taken my Washington trip for
nothing, that the episode was another of those wild-goose chases all too fre-
quently attendant on movie erraticisms. How else could I have had certain as-
pects of foreign conspirings — if conspirings they were — brought to my at-
tention positively and authentically.?
I spent three days in Washington. I made some of the contacts which
my friends had suggested, I found out enough to know that the menace they had
talked about was by no means chimera . .
Two weeks later the ^eapot Dome scandal exploded with a roar, splashing
hot oil from Montana to New Mexico. Whether the ensuing scandal had anything
to do with covering up irregularities rampant in our Treasury, I had no means
of knowing. Today I have my doubts. But the balance of what they told me I
later made good use of. *t was my opening sequence in that gigantic battle
which I have since waged with these alien despoilers — with no quarter given
or taken — which has already cost the country one Congressional investigation
in its endeavor to destroy me, and which is still going on with ever heighten-
ing fury.
I made contacts on that trip which have lasted to the present. Before it
was proper to do anything about them, however, I had revelations of quite anoth-
er character coming to me first . .
138
CHAPTER SEFHNTEEN
N the early autumn of 1S26 I went hack to California.
I had begun to do my first real thinking about myself that was not intro-
. spection. What was to be the outcome of all this dashing about, this put-
ting of organizations together in caprice and rending then asunder, this hec-
tic striving always to get up near Lillian’s big drums without knowing the
meanings of their resonance even if I came on them? I wrote short stories
and made money. I wrote books and made money. I wrote motion-pictures and
made money. My pursuit of experience carried me into every corner of America,
among every class and caste of people.
Yet all of it was wandering. I had started my Exodus from bondage after
leaving the St. Johnsbury hospital. I had not yet entered my Land of Promise.
It was o
. novelist's business, I maintained, to mirror human life truth-
fully and yet insofar as possible, inspirationally. So I sawno merit in wast-
ing time writing a story, or asking a reader to waste his time reading a story,
purely for that elusive and badly prostituted thing that is called Entertainment.
There should always be something permanent created and imparted that justified
the effort in a spiritual sense in both instances. But even inspiration flags
when romancing spiritually means ever looking through a magic mirror into that
which personally may seem unattainable.
Three times in my life I had climbed to separate pinnacles of what the
materialistic world would pronounce to be success. I had known success in the
factory with father, a purely industrial and commercial success. The fact that
disaster had finally ousted me did not alter the circumstance that we had set
out to do something and had achieved it. What subsequently followed was out-
side of that endeavor. Nine years after the manipulated receivership of the
tissue company I ha.d stood on a mountain-height in Japan, so accredited in my
profession that it had carried me into contact with most of the celebrities in
the Asiatic theater of war. That second success had been mental, intellectual,
even as the first had been materialistic, physical. Conditions had been pre-
cipitated upon my return to Vermont that made duplication of my former efforts
untenable.' I had another type of mountain-height to climb after touching
the valley's lowest point in Brightlook Hospital. Well, again I had climbed
it. I was nearing the top. This next arrival must be a spiritual apex.
And yet I was only thirty-six years old.
In other words, I had lived only one-half my three-score years and ten,
albeit I had packed into each of my nine-year cycles as much adventuring and
experiencing, as much drama and financial recompense, as my father had known
throughout his whole life. Now what I wanted to know was, after achieving
again to affluence and feeling that I had sense and ability enough to stay
there — if Kismet would permit it — how was I to spend the thirty-four years
of my span still to follow?
My children were growing up and I saw them frequently. I was paying
Marion generous amounts to keep up her establishment on Morningside Heights
with naught to do the clock around but care for her offspring. Mrs. Holbrook
lived with her daughter and assisted her in doing this. No holiday or Christ-
mas season went by that I did not visit with them — and observe with somewhat
of a hollow feeling in my heart that outside of my financial provision I was
no more essential to their developing lives than the Empire State Building or
the George Washington Bridge. Adelaide was in high school nor/, and Bill was
getting ready to enter Mount Hermon up in Northfield, Massachusetts.
Returning to California therefore, for the fourth or fifth time since I
had gone out to Chaney at the filming of The Hunchback, I knew a disquiet in my
spirit that was not as former moods, nor yet dissatisfactions from previous
1 3 9
spiritual impoverishments. The world had "become a trek, with occasional wells
and watering places true enough, "but with no important announcements awaiting
me at stopping places. Jew really cared whether I tarried or departed. I des-
pised people who expected to have things done for them, to have their ways made
easy, who hungered and thirsted for spiritual nourishment and then deliberately
slapped the Master Givers by their own selfish antics. How then could I invite
or assure myself sanctuary along that trek if I never paused long enough any-
where to build up a confidence in those around me in my ultimate accomplishment,
a desire to serve them, in my wishes to be considered as a workman worthy of his
hire for the sake of the work and not for the payment?
I knew that I wanted something terribly but could not describe it, even
to myself. It could not be woman as Woman; I knew plenty of women and had been
raised, encouraged, and inspired by them — as well as plunged all too frequent-
ly by them into the deepest bogs of miseries. It could not be a home as a place
that I wanted, because my heart was a restless, unboundable thing. I could no
more be satisfied with staying in one place for any length of time than I could
have remained back in East Templeton and succeeded my father as a cobbler of
shoes. It was not a dearth of companions, even male companions, that was gnaw-
ing at me — like the Spartan boy with the fox in his tunic — for I had but to
step across the street in any city where life found me and announce myself, to
be pleasantly surrounded with hosts of good fellows.
What I truly wanted, I tried to tell myself, was something with an en-
ticement in it that truly was not boundable. I wanted a chalice to drink from
that offered an elixir that my lips had never tasted. I sought a Great Thrill
but not the thrill of the worldly adventurer who climbs his mountain peaks sim-
ply to prove that he is immune from tumbling into chasms. I was restless as the
sea is restless because it _is the sea and cannot be otherwise. No one had ever
satisfied ray subliminal urges such as had not been met by Lillian’s maxims,
atoned for by Marion's motherhood, complemented by Beryl's loyalties, appraised
by Mary's altruisms. Life was becoming a surfeit of emotions without a single
emotion predominating. It was a hodge-podge of being without knowing. It was
an effervescent nostrum without a real headache for it to assuage. It was not
that I pitied myself in this period so much as it was that I puzzled myself.
The words of my Capital acquaintances had disturbed me strangely, I wanted to
believe that I had something to do in a public way that might be worthwhile in
a civic sense, but to awaken to the actualities of a militant crusading at that
time was beyond me*
I could not be Selfless.
I was all subjective and no objective. I measured the world, and life,
and life's attainments, by the precept, "What is there in it for me?"
So I hungered.
Whenever I had been upon the Coast for the past three or four years I had
made ray home with Mr. and Mrs. Leon V* Shaw, friends of long-standing, at 553
South Marengo Avenue, in Pasadena. Leon at this time was traveling auditor for
a finance company. His wife Mate, cruolly bedridden for long periods, kept the
home for the two Shaw children. No matter how long I was absent in the East, my
room and writing equipment was always in the order in which I had left it, for
Matie was one of those calm, level-headed, compassionate women who have the full
measure of motherly devotion to all vtio composed her household. She greeted me
now, on my return from my latest and longest sojourn in New York, as I entered
the Shaw house and made to go up to my long-accustomed quarters.
"We've had an addition to our family since you've been gone this time,"
she informed me. "I didn't want to be alone in the house with no grown-folks
about, so I rented the room across the hall from yours to a trained nurse, Miss
Hansmann. She's employed at the Hospital."
140
Billie Shaw, prototype of the Anerican snail boy fron Maine to Texas,
liberally freckled, entered with a whoop — his wire-haired Scottie wheezing
behind him. When boy and pooch had been quieted, his mother continued, "If
you haven’t any dinner-engagement tonight, I’d like to have you cone to table
with us. And Miss Hansnann also. It'll give you a chance to get acquainted."
At seven o'clock that evening I erne down fron abovestairs. A strange
woman straightened fron bending over Matie’s newspaper by the reading-light.
"Cone here, Bill Pelley," Matie ordered ne. "This is Miss Hansnann.
Wilhelmina, believe it or not but this is Bill Pelley."
We looked upon each other, this tall girl and I.
She said, "So this is Bill Pelley?" It was done rather whimsically.
A hand to be remarked upon for its strength and shapely beauty was extended
toward ne. "How do you do?"
Of course I did very well, and said so. It seens to be the custom in
conventional introductions. I likewise clasped the hand, sensed its capable
vigor, relinquished it to its possessor, and made the bald assertion that all
in all, for some reason never quite figured out, I was partial to trained nur-
ses. In fact, without the slightest malice aforethought, I had contrived to
make the heroines of two of my books trained nurses.
The thing which at the moment was befuddling me however, making ny com-
ments so asinine, upsetting me in a breathless consternation, was the recogni-
tion arrived at in the instant that the Hansnann person had straightened . .
somehow or other my former mentor, Lillian, had arrived to take up her resi-
dence at Shawsi
The two women in appearance might be taken for twin sisters. This nurse
had Lillian's height, her litheness, the same old-gold hair — Joyous Hair, I
called it — done almost identically with that twist at the neck, the same pret-
ty shoulders slightly bowed from weariness. But this girl before me was not
clad in a smock. From her neck to her knees she was clad in the most beauteous
of all feminine apparel, the free-falling cape of the Red Cross nurse, a fold
of it cast back to reveal her supple figure in snowy-white -uniform.
"Weill . . you've been a long time getting here," Miss Hansnann said
presently. "Mrs. Shaw's talked about nothing else but Bill Pelley from the
night I first came here. I'd begun to believe you were really a myth."
It was Lillian speaking — with the sane shapely mouth, the same slate-
gray eyes, the sane characterful nose, the same graceful neck. The lids over
this lady's eyes were heavier, the eyes deeper sunken, the complexion more deli-
cate and given to rich flushing.
A woman who still blushed! We would get along splendidly. Not that it
nattered , .
Miss Hansnann went abovostairs to prepare herself for dinner. I marveled
at how it would seen to be going and coning in the same house thereafter with
this nurse who must ever appear to ne as the impersonation of the Big Drums,
Golden Moments Girl now five years back in memory. I did not look at the date
on the calendar. I had no means of knowing what a stupendous page in my hec-
tic life's record I had turned in those simple moments of trite introduction.
I had simply cone banging downstairs in a familiar hone, found a feminine stran-
ger present, acknowledged a presentation, and been confused by her likeness to
someone I had known. Yet the episode was prophecy, arranged for in decades
when all of us were stardust.
Miss Htansnann descended presently in a Prussian-blue dinner frock. We
were placed opposite one another at table and we spread our snowy napkins.
Grace was said. Matie served the dinner,
"We're past the age of calling her 'Miss Hansnann'," began our landlady,
as the children clamored for choice bits of the roast. "I'm going to tell you
141
that her real name is Minna Helen — not Wilhelnina. That’s the name the sold-
iers gave her in Siberia, I understand. Sister Wilhelnina, she says the war
prisoners called her.”
"SIBERIA!" I gasped.
"Oh, I forgot," Matie chattered onward. "You were in Siberia too,
weren't you, Bill Pelley?”
"Where in Siberia did you serve?." I asked ray new acquaintance.
"Moscow,” she responded, "before the revolution. Then Omnsk. Most of
ny tine I spent at Irkutsk."
"Good Lord!" I exclaimed. "'.Then did you go in?"
"I went over with the first contingent of American nurses out of Belle-
vue Hospital in New York. In 1914. We went from Italy up to Sweden. Then
fron Sweden into Russia. Most of my work was among the German prisoners."
"And when did you leave?"
"In 1917. With the Reds getting wilder there was small use to stay.
But I was a long tine getting hone. I nursed in Peking, Honolulu-
- "
"You spoke of Omnsk. How long were you there?"
"Not so very long. I was mainly the guest there of a Mr. and Mrs.
George Smith."
It gave me ny second jolt. "George Smith!"
"Did you meet the George Smiths?"
"Meet them!" My knife clattered floorward end I forgot to recover it.
"George Smith was my buddy, coming out of Siberia in a freight-car,"
Matie had to interject the usual banality that when all was said and
done the proportions of this planet were on the whole diminutive.
The meal after that was a gory splurge of war talk. Not since my return
from Vladivostok had I met a person, man or woman, with whom I could chat of
the war's eastern theater — with a single exception. One day in 1922 George
Gleason — he of the pajamas — had looked me up in Manhattan and we had lunched
in company. I went abovestairs later and brought down my war pictures. It was
the reverse of meeting a friend from home in a dismal foreign land.
At eleven o'clock that night the household started bedward. By the newel
post of the stairs I said, "I hope I’m going out there again some day. I'm go-
ing to see that country with the Red Blight swept clean of it."
"Yes, I daresay," said Minna Helen. Then she added half as afterthought
and half in caprice, "And when you go, I'm going with you,"
She has told me a hundred times since that she could not have explained
what prompted her to say it.
"Are you?" I bantered.
"Uh-huh. I'm sure of it."
Then I realized to my puzzlement that the lady was not b(
antering. Capri-
cious, yes. But she spoke as from a knowledge that was not to be shared.
"You're inviting yourself now?"
"No, not exactly." She sauntered across the living-room and rested her
cheek against the smooth banister. I was two stops higher and looked down up-
on her head. A symphony in gold, it was in the firelight — pure music — happy
music. "It must be," she informed me, "I know some things you don't."
Was it a
. conundrum? For the moment our eyes locked . .
There ivas something majestic about this tall nurse — when shechoseto
reveal it. She was like a very tired queen who had shed her cares ofStateto
slip out into her kingdom in the guise of a shepherdess. She made a very strange
shepeherdess because she thought that being a shepherdess was only a matter of
wearing a shepeherdess's costume, possessing a
, staff with a crook at the top,
doing the things that most shepherdesses did. When she came to give up, and go
tack, puzzled, to her castle, she discovered that other arrangements had been
142
i
.
i
r
d
o about a queen. So she was not admitted. Thus she was neither queen nor
shepherdess "but ever the troubled interchange of "both . .
Why — I have often asked myself — are the episodes of greatest drama
in our lives so frightfully undranatic, yes even prosaic, in the process of
their happening?
I said somewhere in these pages that my life had "been enriched by know-
ing three truly great women. Different in their greatness as three mountains
nay be great, or three valleys nay be beautiful. But none the less outstanding.
Now they are all accounted for, and ny story can accelerate.
I lay in bed that night with ny arms behind ny head and starred upward in-
to darkness. Life could be so tantalizing.
Its departures and its landfalls were so sudden.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
P* OR the first time in thirty-six years, I say, my life wa.s becoming a stale-
j na.te on principle. It seemed real enough in its enticements. It beckoned
-
I me with glamorings to attempt this and that. Always when I stalked the lam-
bent rainbow of material desire, and even came up to the Pot of Gold at the end
of it, and seized upon it, it was always a rainbow — a kind of bright fog.
V/hat did life hold in the way of objectives that were really worthwhile?
Success? What was Success? Marion would define it, and did define it, as the
retention and conservation of accumulated winnings so that affluence and secur-
ity were paramount factors in day to day existence. But no matter what arena
or strata such success wa.s concerned with, Divine Discontent for some mysterious
reason was always at the end of it. Thus far and no farther. Always there must
arrive that stage of sensation that what was being done was traveling an orbit.
And an orbit was a stalemate. As soon be a
. squirrel and spin about a wheel.
If you won and retained a million dollars, then you had to apply yourself to a
treadmill of repctil tive happenings to conserve it. You had to live up to the
role of possessing it. Was it any different, having a million dollars in your
bank account or a hundred dollars in your pocket? You could do more things with
the million, influence more lives, command a wider prestige. That was only deal-
ing in la.rger composites of numerals. You still played the role of the possessor
of $100 if that was all which your pocket contained. A role, a role, always a
role. It was the playing of the role that nattered.
Suddenly it occurred to me to ask why men should pursue this curiosa of
Success at all? Was not the whole idea of success a sort of fetish, something
that society had popularized, based on inferiority complexes, and. that drew its
quota, of devotees chiefly because it wa.s considered the correct thing to do?
Everybody pursued Success. Anyone who was not interested in pursuing it was
"queer” or a vagrant. Nobody seemed to think very deeply about it. It was all
a form of Keeping Up with the Joneses. And who were the Joneses, that they
should be kept up with?
It began to appal me, what a
. lot of silly children playing with pretty
pebbles the major portion of the adult race wa.s. The schoolboy fought over his
pocket of marbles. Down in Wall Street ten thousand grown-up schoolboys fought
over a different kind of marbles, called them dolla.rs, and locked them away in
a steel vault at night. In Central Park a youth rigged a sailboat and put it
on the water so that the breeze caught it and propelled it over to the basin's
other side. On the broad Atlantic, Sir Thomas Lipton rigged a larger sailboat
and put it on the water so that the breeze caught it and propelled it over to
the basin's other side — to get a big gold cup for doing it, and his name in
all the supplements, and was hailed as a Great Sportsman — if his boat got over
143
to tiio basin's other side ahead of all the other big boys' boats, which in Lip-
ton's case was never. All of it was child's play. The whole human race was
sporting with trifles — marbles, and gold dollars, and locomotives, and sail-
boats. What was the difference in the size of a thing, or the weight of a
thing, or the value of a thing, or the minbers of things engaged in the accumu-
late. Still they were things, first, last, and all the tine.
I began to see that even my paper in St. Johnsbury had been nothing but a
plaything, a twenty-thousand dollar toy. When my toy had not run because two
other boys had bent it during my absence at war so that it could not run, and I
could not unbend it, or fix it, I had let myself get temporarily downhearted be-
cause I was a "failure". Why not say as logically that if the sailboat tipped
over with the boy on the Central Park basin, that the youth who rigged it and
gave it a push had made a failure of his adolescence? Could things — posses-
sion of them no matter how brief or how long, command of then, employment of
them, no natter for what purpose — dictate the success or failure of a sent-
ient soul? Was there any real connection between a Thing and a Soul whatsoever?
Were they not made of different essences, evolved in two separate crucibles of
values?
I was struggling to acquire and compile a philosophy.
\|EVERTHELESS, I had a
. canker in my heart. I had a hunger, an unidentified
J I groping, for Complement end Balance, that also was part of an evolutionary
sequence, an aspect of certain spiritual growing pains that I could no more un-
derstand than I had understood the urges in my body when I took Mabel's arm in
going hone from church on those nights in faraway York State. I had my moments
of fierce rebellion at Kismet because I had been "cheated" in the item of par-
ents that should always keep older and wiser than I. I wanted mother to be for-
ever the exhaustless mentor that she had been to me in the days of the East Tem-
pleton parsonage. That it was the agenda of life for me to outstrip her, that
children by the very nature of growth e.nd social evolution must — age by age —
proceed further than the parents and become wiser, left me with a helpless,
rudderless feeling. I wanted someone to cone along and take charge of me be-
cause I felt the need of supervision as supervision. Really it was Polarity
for which I was famishing. And now the need for it was vicious.
As often I changed this groping for Polarity into castigation of Marion
because she had not mentored me as Lillian had mentored me, not recognizing
that in tine, had Lillian continued to be with me, or I with her, she would have
reached her capacity for mentoring as I responded to it in its fullness. Then
she too would have epitomized an emptied Something that in turn would have be-
come abstract.
I had not yet fully cone to realize that there truly are no such things
as Mentors. There are only people who impart to us what they know, and are will-
ing to pass it on to us in turn, within the limits of their knowledge. They are
nentors only while they are so exhausting themselves upon us. Then they become
just ordinary people once again.
Mother, Marion, Lillian, Beryl, Mary, these as women nentors of their per-
iods served out to me what they had to give so richly. All honor unto then.
To the extent that they emptied themselves, I stand in their debt. The fault
was within myself, if fault existed anywhere. I absorbed from then, added their
counsels to ny stock of mental or spiritual goods, did traffick, and then groped
for the heavier and more significant increment. My very capacity to absorb was
ny cross. I wanted to find someone who was inexhaustible in what he or she had
to give — to sit at such a person's feet forever. But I did not know that such
a person does not exist in a world of circumscribed mortality. Wisdom of that
sort reaches us from quite a different reservoir. It never occurred to me to
144
ask why anyone should he obliged to nentor ne at all — or what I was doing to
mentor someone else. Probably I was mentoring a whole lot of people as I went
along through life, particularly by the media of my fictional expressions.
But none of it was deliberately and productively conscious, ^t is only con-
scious mentoring that counts. Mentoring that spells sacrifice. Mentoring of
the soul.
So I fumbled and I fumed. I wrote hectically when I wrote at all. I
throw myself at Hollywood and I ate of the fleshpots.
My purpose in detailing all this psycho-analytical data nay be obscure.
I aver that I was preparing for something without knowing it. These actions
and reactions were subconscious stepping-stones to a permanent and splendorful
philosophy that was subsequently to evolve for me in all its fecund rhapsodies.
I want my nature reader to know just what my personal evolvenents were, physi-
cally, mentally, spiritually, and socially, that in a later sequence he may per-
haps read into my denouement something of hope for his own emulations. For the
nonent let it pass.
it is sufficient to say that I was restless with a gnawing, groping fren-
zy, ever getting more sizable and vicious. One nonent I wanted to project a
great newspaper chain from New Jersey to Utah and dynamite humanity from its
virulent phlegnatisns. The next I would be certain that the acne of all spirit-
ual aspirings would be reached if I secured a divorce and married a woman like
Mary. That is, assuming that I could find one and that she would take ne as a
husband. Such oscillations at times were breath-taking. The engine under the
hood of my mortality was pounding dangerously now — well-nigh banging my chas-
sis to pieces. Mary gave ne everything my spirit longed for in an intellectual
and esthetic way. She was the epitome of understanding in the lengthy letters
that she wrote to ne in Hollywood. I used the dear girl as victim on a hundred
nights to vent my divine dissatisfactions upon vicariously in a private and per-
sonal correspondence equally a
.
s voluminous. In Mary’s case, however, an un-
known quantity was lacking. The matrix was there but in minute detail the cast-
ings would not fit. Besides, Mary had separately builded her career. There
was association between us. There could never be a fusion.
At last even Mary's literary counselling ceased to have vitality.
When I wrote fiction, it was done mechanically.
"Not quite up to your former quality, Pelley," editors would tell me.
And for the first time in a
. dozen years, my manuscripts were beginning to be
rejected. "Aren't you, perhaps, writing too much? Try less quantity of out-
put ."
Either that, or movies were ruining me, they said. "The screen has
spoiled more than one writer of talent," Karl Harrinan told me. "Don't let it
get you, Bill."
The screen, indeedl
DURING this period I had three male confidants, each one of them significant,
each one in separate departments of my spiritual peregrinations. The first
was Lon Chaney, The second was Grant Dolge. The third was Eddie Eckels. My
relationships with Lon are already of comment. Grant Dolge was a Hollywood
screen-talent casting agent, of whom more presently. Eddie Eckels was execu-
tive "gag man" in the publicity department of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's Culver City
studios.
"I know what ails you, feller," said Eddie one noontime as I sa.t in his
office on the picture-lot. "You haven't yet tumbled to the fact that the busi-
ness of creating and promoting can be a career within itself. What you need is
a field where you can just manufacture to your heart's content, and having man-
ufactured, pass on and leave the product to bohunks on principle."
145
Here was a philosophy of rampant materialism that never had occurred to
no before. I created and promoted, and then I let myself become morose and at
odds with destiny because I could not remain with what I had created and let it
take the aspects of mechanical functioning.
Eddie was a dynamic personage in his late thirties, whom once seen and
identified would never be confused with anyone else. I had first net him in
Manhattan when I had been conducting The Pelley Press and he had been editor
of The Exhibitor's Trade Review. He was a sandy-haired, bespectacled chap who
banged about the Culver City "lot" in shirtsleeves and nonchalance, cap twisted
around over one ear, who walked with a quick nervous stride and handled the exi
gencies of his job with a brain like a Gatling gun. He had one idea a minute -
for thinking up tricks to sellpictures to exhibitors — and somotimes sixteen.
He kept a dozen subordinates on the bounce, had three telephones on his desk —
and all of them worked — and knew the movie racket as a surgeon knows anatomy.
"You're a promotin' fool, like I an," he continued. "You live to make
jobs so other boobs can eat. The minute you've promoted something, and made
jobs for a thousand palukas who don't grab off an original idea from New Year's
to Christmas, your brain6 turn bolshevik on you. You just can't help it. Some
of us are like that. We're not make to stick. We're made to originate."
"But where does it get us?"
"It doesn't get us anywhere. That's not the point. It's being — not
doing. Don't you see the difference?"
I gave this due study. Was Eddie really right?
"Yeast doesn't 'get anywhere'continued Eddie, "in a pan of bread, as
yeast. The yeast might yammer, 'Where am I going?' The answer would be, 'Up
with the bread.' While it mightn't satisfy the yeast, aspiring to go some-
where as the whole pan of dough, all the same it'd do its stuff and bread would
appear in bakeries."
Eddie did not say this just as I have written it. In between each of
those sentences he night have answered seventeen phone calls, made dates for
the personal appearances of ten movie stars at Firemen's Benefits, answered
four rings from studio executives, eaten his luncheon from a paper napkin, and
fired six subordinates for taking their jobs for granted.
"I've never looked at it in just that way," I said.
"Yeah, I know. I was in your muddle once. The minute I'd started some-
thing and got it running swell, I kicked it in the face, I finally doped it
out that originating, whether its a story masterpiece, a design for a carburato
or opening a restaurant, is a profession in itself. Well, why not admit it?
God Almighty has put certain angle worms into this can we call Life equipped
with just that talent — to give other bums jobs, to spell them for brains. I
saw a squib in a paper the other day where Hank Ford back in Detroit claims
that ninety-five percent of the human race is perfectly satisfied to pick up a
piece of metal on one side of a stamping press, hold it under a machine, put a
neat hole in it, and lay it on a pile on the other side. That's Work to them -
their jobs, their lives. *t never occurs to 'em where the piece of metal goes,
or hov/ it fits, or who makes the bolt that fits the hole, or what sort of a
gas-crate comes from the works. Well, fellers like you and me get up the blue-
prints and set up the presses. With ten thousand slobs satisfied with jobs,
that earns 'em some jack and keeps 'em in groceries, we snap off to the North
Polo to see if we can't promote a new monument up there for all the explorers
and liars who've made the trip, or mebbe open a string of hot-dog stands for
those who come later to see if the first lot told the truth." He looked at me
thoughtfully in one of his intervals of quiet. "I wonder," he mused, leaning
back in his always-broken swivel with hands clasped across the top of his head,
"what sort of hijinks would result in Promotion if two top-notch hams like us
teamed up?"
146
"Teamed up!" I echoed, startled.
"Yeah. Suppose we formed a partnership and did nothing else the clock
around hut just scran and promote?"
"You mean you1d leave your high-priced job here?"
"Cripes, I'd leave ny body in a bathtub and go walking around naked in
ny soul if it offered the chance for Bigger Creating. After all, what an I
around this joint? Already this job is a lousey stalemate. Every film is
just like every other filn, only sone are worse'n others. What can I do with
it so that the exhibitor can sell it to the morons? Gags, gags, gags! I cone
in here at nine o'clock and think up gags till noon. Then I have my lunch —
if that's what you call a Swiss with rye — and think up gags till dark. Call
that a living? I'm telling you it's sheep-dip."
Here, I thought, was a kindred spirit. I cottoned to Eddie despite his
clipped vocabulary.
"Grant Dolge wants to set up a Publicity Department for the actors he
handles," I told Eddie one day later. "If we got fifty dollars a week fron
each of then, that would supply us with a seven-hundred-and-fifty dollar rev-
enue four tines a month to underwrite a lot more promotions."
"I'm on." Eddie snapped. "When do we start?"
So I have it to write that I engaged in ny first and only connercial
partnership. Eddie and I turned Promotin' Fools . . .
CHAPTER NIKS TEEN
rJDDIE had been right. And yet he had been wrong.
p
-
1 What afflicted me was this: The great cosmic coach, Kismet, had purposely
' i and sagely trained me by a thousand experiences to engage in a nighty con-
test that was presently to open. I had known long and gruelling road-work in
economic struggling. I had engaged in bag-punching with adversity, with domes-
tic quandary, with romantic aridity. I had spent heart-breaking years in shad-
ow boxing with philosophical hypothesis e.nd subconscious idealizing of substan-
tial attainment that could not be defined by tangible expletives. Now having
brought myself to well-nigh perfect edge for The Battle of the Century, that
epochal contest was being delayed. I could not locate the arena for ny supreme
exhibition. This promotional sparring with Eddie for a partner, might easily
mean over-training, disastrously going stale. The metaphor is excellent. That
is precisely what I did.
Eddie and I rented a suite of offices in the Guaranty Building in Holly-
wood. Later, as our staff increased, we took a snail building on North Wilton
Place. We became a pair of pronoting idiots, recklessly tackling any sort of
project that came along to challenge us.
Insofar as I was concerned, it was talent running to seed. I had no
business prostituting the initiative I had developed in the gamut of ny exper-
iencings, finding out ways to fanaggle contracts fron producers for actor robots
or platinum cuties. It was keeping the worst sort of spiritual assignation to
employ the writing faculties that I had acquired by those nights in Bennington
after getting out The Banner, those contacts in the Orient, those Golden Moments
with Lillian, those awards and increments that came fron writing The Greater
Glory, The Fog, and Drag, turning out caloric advertising natter for a Californ-
ia subdivision, a string of ice-crenn parlors, an airplane flight fron Hawaii
to Los Angeles, a daily News Bulletin that was tacked up in cigarstores, Eddie
too, once in intimate association, could not forego his builded psychology of
expecting all those about him to hop like Roman Candles when he fired then with
orders — myself included. He did not mean to be dictatorial to his partner,
147
but it was the first time in his life that he had ever had a partner. So it was
with me. Partnership, whether of business or matrimony, is bound to be a perpet-
ual compromise. Eddie and I had positive temperaments. Compromise rankled.
Immediately we clashed.
The backlog of our undertaking, as I have said, was the press-agent work
for Grant Doldge's stars. Again, as in that attemptedcollaboration with Lil-
lian, one party to the driving of a team could notmanipulate the left-hand rein
and the other the right. The result was chaotic.
Grant was the closest, and most loyal, friend that a troubled man like
myself could annex. Tall, dark-eyed, middle-aged, maturely poised, from the be-
ginning of our friendship in Hollywood two years before, he had suffered my ec-
centricities in a
, sort of humorous interest, counselling as he could, finding
some profit in it doubtless or he would not have indulged me, sharing with me
his confidences as I shared mine with him. He was a
. year or two younger than I,
although he was the larger man physically. Our tastes ran in common. Our ac-
quaintance had begun when he had sent for me to come in and see him regarding
the handling o.f my scenario work in Hollywood. He had handled it since. He had
built up a sizable business functioning as manager for a dozen to fifteen actor-
folk, obtaining them their contracts with producers, keeping producers from im-
posing on them, collecting their compensations, directing their investments.
But he, like myself, knew that awful Cosmic restlessness. He loathed the
vocation that netted him a living, chiefly because it forced him into daily con-
tact with so many Jews and their business ethics. Nevertheless it maintained
him in a sumptuous suite of offices, permitted him an attractive home, and sup-
plied him with two motor cars. He wa.s the musician, the dilettante, the artist
in his spirit. And yet, pure German bred, he came from a long line of soldiers.
Soldiering to him was more than an enticement, it gave his strange life balance
— balance and polarity — which I had yet to find. He had been a major in the
American army during the world war. Once each summer he abandoned his business
and went off to camp, to indulge his ache toward patriotism and masculine action-
ism. For Grant was all man.
He had started out in life as a piano manufacturer with his father, as I
had started out in another line with mine. He had transferred into the manu-
facturing of felts in my native Massachusetts, which he had left to go to war.
Exactly as in my case, incompetent subordinates had brought the firm to ruin in
his absence. Leaving an incompatible wife, he had come to California and se-
cured a divorce. Later he had remarried, after a saga so like my own that com-
parisons were uncanny. We worked together, played together, spent each other's
money and drove each other's cars. And his contempt for the Jewishness of Hol-
lywood, I repeat, was increasingly virulent.
Under his paternal wing in screenland were such personages as Henry Walt-
hall, Chester Conklin, Mack Swain, Blanche Sweet, Huntley Gordon, Laska Winter,
Henry Kolker, Gladys Brockwell, Lee Moran, A1 St. John, Alphonse Ethier, Nigel
do Brulior, Kate Price, Charles Emmet Mack, and Virginia Lee Corbin.
"What we need to give these stars publicity," I said to Eddie one day,
"is a magazine of our own."
"Okay," said he. "What's stopping us from starting one?"
So Ki-Hat Magazine appeared on the newsstands. I practically wrote the
whole of each number, from cover to cover, under a score of pseudonyms . .
Grant had become involved, through the investments of his players, in a
Beverly Hills subdivision development. Eddie came in one noontime and declared,
"What say we take that whole development off Grant's hands? Vie'11 promote a
district to be kept exclusive to motion picture celebrities. We'll call it
Filmanor. Make it hard for any but the swankiest movie bohunks to get in, and
we'll unload that land like hot coffee in a blizza.rd."
1 4 8
Presently Holl?T,r
ood was hearing about Filmanor. It comprised the whole
of Sunset Mountain to the west of Hollywood. We took an option on that moun-
tain and began to sell property. While the selling of this mountain was in
progress, we acquired a chain of ice-cream parlors in lieu of a sizable adver-
tising bill that had defected on us. One night I drove home to Matie's and
boasted, "What do you think I'm mixed up in now?"
"Oh for the land's sake!" she protested. "Have you gone and got your-
self in some sort of trouble?"
"I'm going to engineer an airplane flight across the Pacific, just as
Lindy flew the Atlantic."
"You're not going to fly it!"
"Of course not. Grant's got a pilot who's been doing motion-picture
stunt work. He's bought the sister-ship to The Spirit of St. Louis. Grant's
going to attend to the mechanical details of the project — despatching Dick
Grace, the pilot, to Hawaii — while Eddie and I are taking over the commercial
details. I stand to make .about thirty thousand from it, if v/e pull it off suc-
cessfully and Dick covers the hop from Hawaii to the California mainland with-
out a mi shap."
Matie sat down at the kitchen table. Her carelined face was troubled.
"Oh Bill," she lamented, "why does a nan of your splendid capabilities let him-
self in for such a lot of boyish nonsense?"
"I don’t call it nonsense, engineering a feat like that in progressive
aviation."
"Progressive fiddlesticks! You're . . running wild," she said with a
little catch in her throat. "Just the other evening Miss Eansmann was saying — "
"What's it her business?"
"But she sees as I do, that you're wasting yourself on ribald distrac-
tions away from your obvious lifework."
"What is my lifework? Does the Eansmann person know? Does anybody know?"
"For a man who can write like you can — when he wants to — it's a sort
of spiritual crime to let such mischief get him."
"I don't call it mischief."
"No, you're too close to it. As Miss Eansmann was saying, you're like
an athlete that's let himself get musclebound. You're doing all sorts of crazy
things to get relief, instead of using those splendid biceps to do some real
work."
"But Matie?. I don't know what my real work is. I'm . . trying to find
it." Never had I felt so callow and so purposeless as in those moments.
Her motherly soul was touched. She arose and put her arms around me.
"I wish that I could act as your manager for a little tine," she said to me
wistfully. "I know what's wrong with you but . . the prescription's beyond me."
I clung to Matie's tired shoulders with a quiver running through me. Her
husband, her son, myself, we wore all boys to Matie. The door opened and Miss
Eansmann came in from the hospital.
"So what!" she reprimanded us.
"Oh," said Me.tie, "Billy's gone and got himself mixed up in an airplane
flight and I'm afraid . . it'll bring him trouble." She patted me between the
shoulders, pulled herself out of my embrace, and set about washing lettuce for
dinner at the sink.
"What about an airplane flight?" asked Minna Helen.
"Grant's bought a plane," I related. "We're going to make Dick Grace
the first man to fly the distance between Hawaii and Los Angeles. Eddie and I
will manage the commercial hook-ups for a fifty-fifty cut."
Minna Helen, still in the nurse's cape she always wore over from the
hospital, sat down in the chair which Matie had lately quitted and laid clasped
149
fingers against her check. "You can't afford not to, I suppose," was her con-
cent. It was a queer comment. Then she smiled at Matie, She had large shapely
teeth with a natural lustre like mother-of-pearl. She also had a trick of tilt-
ing hack her head when she laughed, "Our wandering ho;/ will get himself cracked
up," she confided to Matie. "Then he'll cone hack to us nurses to sew up the
pieces."
"But," I defended, "I'm not going to do the flying."
"You're sure of that."
"Dick's going to do the flying — "
"I wasn't referring to the plane."
The Shaws had their dinner and Matie left for the movies with her chil-
dren. I went out on the fr^nt porch morosely, pulled up a chair so that my
feet were pushed against the railing, and lit a cigar.
After a time Helen came down. She punched up the pillows on the box-
hammock suspended from the western end of the veranda's roof, and stretched her-
self alongside my chair, head toward the street.
"I've heen trying to figure you out," she announced.
"What's mysterious about me that needs figuring out?"
"You're not mysterious. You're so full of contradictions."
"Contradictions how?"
"You give every indication of being a person of splendid possibilities,
then you let yourself bother around with things so terribly childish that it
throws me in confusion. Frankly I can't catalogue you."
"Perhaps I can't catalogue myself."
"Everybody should be able to catalogue themselves even if others can't.
You . . well, you sometimes stack up to me . . what I've seen of you about the
house or d\iring the evening auto rides on which you've taken me . . as a man
who's losing his grip on himself. What's making you do it?"
"Let's talk about the weather."
It was a luculent California night. A lustrous moon was leaving the
mountains up behind Altadena. Presently it would climb through the euca.lyptus
and pepper trees and drift up the zenith like a mammoth ruddy bubble bouyed up
on clear cyahite•
"I know it's none of my business," Minna Helen persisted, "but life holds
so many worthwhile things to which you could .apply yourself-
- "
"Such as?"
"It's hard to express. But in all the things you've done — and Matie's
mentioned most of them to me — something's impressed me above everything else.
Your absolute materialistic selfishness!" She said it kindly, removing the
sting.
"Selfishness!" I echoed.
"You've done a lot of interesting things, no doubt abotit that. But
they've been strictly for Bill Pelley, to advance his prospects, to benefit him
personally, to give him a thrill as the perfect egocentric. It's not difficult
to see that you're due for a smash. You can't go on forever being the intro-
vert without the machinery breaking down."
"Me, introvert!"
"How many tines a year do you ever think of doing anything for anyone but
yourself? Malting a business of it, I mean?"
Vaguely, she nettled me. It was like having Lillian stretched there in
the semi-darkness but speaking to me without Lillian's acerbity. The hands of
this nurse took a strand of hair from her face and tucked it deftly into that
supernal head of hair. I saw them in the half-light, those hands. They were
big and strong and capable, yet perfectly feminine hands — hands that employed
themselves the clock around at naught but easing human suffering.
150
I said, raggedly, "I guess I've never stopped to think very nuch about
it. I've taken life as it cane."
"Sunning around doing what you call 'creating' . . just making experi-
nonts in curiosity, like a little hoy turning over stones on a lawn to see
what sort of grubs nay scuttle from beneath them."
"Why not put it," I argued, "seeing what he can build out of their var-
ious shapes and sizes?"
"But are you building with then? And why the necessity for building with
then at all?"
Autonobiles cane down Marengo Avenue, always halting for the boulevard
stop at the nearby corner, starting up again with acceleration of motors and
traction of tires. Nine out of ten motorists rasped their gears horridly in
getting under way. They annoyed me and I said so. "What a crazy custom it is,"
I remarked, "that city statutes require a car to waste gasoline and rubber
stopping and starting up, when a glance right and left shows no other car .ap-
proaching for two blocks?"
"And what a
. crazy custom it is," said Helen, "for a man to be always
wasting power stopping and starting up when a glance right and left should show
him there isn't a reason in the world for not continuing at a
. smooth steady
speed?"
"A nan's different. A person driving a motorcar generally knows v/here
he's taking it. If he doesn't, he'd better keep it in the garage — unless he's
out for a joyride."
"Is that what you are, out for a joyride?"
"Not exactly."
"Then why not keep yourself in a garage till you know exactly where it is
you're taking yourself?"
"Life is different, I say. It's a blind run on principle --- "
I stopped. Faint .and faraway down California Street to the north came
the whine of a siren. It grew louder and more blood-curdling. It must be a
police or fire car. Nearer and stronger the unearthly screeching approached.
Autoists on Marengo Avenue heard it above the beating of their engines. They
slowed to a halt. Then from the north, hurtling across that intersection like
a streak of dark lightning, gone in a wail that sounded as far-distant as Lake
Avenue on the south, the low-hung Pasadena Hospital emergency ambulance showed
a lambent red eye in diminishing brightness.
Helen scarcely stirred. But she sighed as though to salve her conscience.
S
l
i
e remarked, "I'm just as well satisfied that I'm not riding it tonight. Maybe
I can do as much good lying here and talking to you. But you noticed what hap-
pened."
The headlamps of the motorcars flashed brighter for a moment as they all
started up and moved in a procession across the intersection.
"What do you mean, what happened?"
"Didn't you notice that when the ambulance approached that intersection
it wasn't required to halt for any street signs. It shot across as though all-
fury was after it. Other vehicles came to a
. stop — gave it right of way with-
out the slightest question. Don't you see why?"
"It was going somewhere," I admitted, recalling the speed at which it
had vanished.
"Yes. But why? It's going on a call because somebody* s hurt somewhere.
It's doing something to aid people, to lessen human suffering, perhaps to save
a life. Nothing's required to halt when that's the errand of the moment, for
either a person or a motorcar."
I sa.id, to cover my chagrin, "Have you ever been out on one of those
trips?"
151
Carelessly she answered, "That's been part of ray job ever since I was in
training."
"It must pack a thrill."
"I never thought of it as thrill. We nerely wanted to get there in a
hurry, to help as we could because the need for us was horrible."
I said thickly, "Do all nurses feel as you do?"
"All nurses do who take their profession seriously,"
"All the sane, you oust get a thrill out of it."
Softly Helen answered, "Y/e get oup real thrill when we see someone who's
corae to us all broken up, or prostrate with illness, leave us mended and whole
again, read;'' to go back to the business of life, and resume it valiantly with
their bodily mechanism behaving as it should,"
"That's — a noble way — to look — at it — "
"Fiddlesticks! It's more applying yourself to something outside of your-
self, not always thinking of your own insides. Have you ever noticed that peo-
ple who aren't always thinking of themselves and their own insides, rarely have
anything the natter with their health or their affairs? At least you never cone
on them running all to seed."
There was rebuke in it for me. And I took it. It was Lillian sublimated.
Y H E MOON climbed higher as we talked there. Automobiles grew fewer, coning down
J the thoroughfare and halting at the corner. The ambulance finally returned out
of distance at a slower pace, wailed for the intersection again, but crossed it
more circumspectly now as though conscious of the precious load it carried.
"That must be Bartlett on the night-shift," mused Helen. Obviously she
referred to some nurse of her acquaintance within the vehicle of mercy, perform-
ing her job. I detected her stirred interest, the camaraderie of one good sold-
ier toward another, knowing that the other was indubitably carrying on. For a
sickening instant, indictment assailed me. These women were living in a differ-
ent world than mine. Their lives were turned outward, wholly absorbed in minis-
tering to others. How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable was this life that I
was living by contrast . . touting silly robots of actors and actresses to venal
producers, ballyhooing certain brands of chalky icecream, selling house lots by
studied appeal to caste snobbery, calling such balderdash creating?
"I envy you," I conceded thickly.
"Envy me! What is there about me to envy?"
"My bringing-up has been along a totally different line."
"And that's the silliest alibi that you could possibly offer. Your
training, indeed! As if anybody had to be 'trained' to apply themselves to the
needs of others instead of their own selfish interests and thrills!"
I lit a fresh cigar and cogitated. Why had I felt an emotional stir, a
surcharge of vicarious heroism, when the ambulance had shot past and the girl
bad made the comment, "I'm just as well satisfied that I'm not riding it to-
night"? Riding it tonight! . . answering calls of human distress and need, and
making it a glorious vocation! Something old, old, . . as old as YTomanhood it-
self, had lurked in that reference. It was not unlike the thrill that I had felt
that night in the Washington Press Club when that correspondent had said anent
the Great Conspiracy, "For tho good of the country somebody's got to do it!"
Was there a subliminal world of unselfishness which I had not discovered for all
ny surface cleverness, for all my venturings and my veporings?
I thought of Lillian. She epitomized Manners. I thought of Beryl. She
epitomized Pivots. I thought of Mary. She epitomized Esthetics. This capable
nurse, stretched wearily beside me after a full day of being on her feet in and
out of those compartments of pain, epitomized nothing but Womanhood Incarimto in
her role of Ministering Samaritan. She did not "pass by on the other side" . .
152
Lillian had referred to “
big drums. Minna Helen was Big Drums! . . every
hour of her life and career.
The moonlight had crept along "by this tine till its silvery radiance was
prying a little distance under the veranda cornice. It moved along the two-foot
cement parapet. Presently, I thought, it would touch that head of golden hair —
joyous hair — fluffy, lustrous, singing hair — an aureole of glory. I said,
"Assuming what you say is true, what would you advise me in ny present case to
do? I can't "be a doctor."
"Maybe not. Not a medical doctor. There are other kinds of doctors be-
sides those who dole out pills. Get interested in some work that truly helps
people and you won't bore yourself, or have any more dissatisfactions, with life
or with others."
"Suppose that I don't feel any special call to do that sort of thing?"
"Can you honestly say you don't?"
I sat for a tine in silence after that, absorbing the lambent beauty of
the night. Occasionally a mocking-bird called stridently up in the drooping
fronds of the pepper trees,
"At least," I murmured, "you're switching my thinking into unaccustomed
channels."
"We'll work it out," she said in mellow kindness, as though thinking a
beautiful thought aloud . .
Was it a pronise or a prophecy?She had utter confidence that it could
be done. But . . We! Inthat instant I had an eerie sensation play up and
down my spine. Of all theflanges that had ever kept me on true rails, or
borne me unerringly tothis evening of moonlight on Shaw's front veranda, none
were less to be denied or ignored.
I turned and glanced at Minna Helen.
What I beheld raised a prickle of unearthy qualm up my thighs, up my
back, up the flesh of ny forearms where my shirtsleeves were rolled back.
The moonlight had not only touched this woman's hair by now. It had
traveled to the point where it lighted her face. She lay with eyes raised,
looking at it above her head, strong hands slipped beneath her neck.
And it was not the girl who resembled Lillian, or the strange nurse to
whom Mrs. Shaw had introduced me, who was suddenly revealed in that nocturnal
silver. No'.
In that terrifying instant I saw stretched languorous.^at ny right the
seeming fusion of a dozen separate countenances, merging into the one visage of
Someone I had known throughout whole multiples of lives.
Who was this person?
I "knew" that composite face, disclosed for a cataclysmic second of tine
as I had known ny own face in a mirror over thirty-seven years. I had known it
a million years bygone when I was a sentient impulse out among the symphonic
constellations.
I wanted to exclaim at what I was beholding. I wanted to unfreeze my-
self, to demand her identity, to ask her how she had cone there like the per-
sonified spirit of ny Better, Higher Self? I did not then know the strange in-
pellation that had moved her out of the Wilson Avenue room and taken her of an
ordinary evening up here to Shaw's. I had felt no galvanism of ancient recog-
nition when Matie had introduced us. But now, stiotched alongside ny chair
was a woman whose countenance in weird moonlight was as familiar as ny own
nother's, that wont back, back, back! . . older than maternity and earthly life
itself.
Laughing voices cane beneath the pepper trees. Four persons turned in
upon the lawn from spotted reaches of shadowed sidewalk. "We saw a keen movie!"
Billie Shaw declaimed. "Whatta you think? We saw Tom Mix!"
Helen arose and went up to bed . .
153
CHAPTER TWENTY
k ”-1 RANT DOLGE was the type of friend that a nan possesses hut once in a life—
( i tine, and having once possessed hin, never knows hin again.
V_J I have described hin as big-bodied, dark-eyed, niddle—aged, maturely
poised. That description might fit any one of a hundred nen overtaken in an
evening's walk up Main Street. As this is probably the only tine that I shall
ever be able to eulogize Grant as he deserves to be eulogized, let ne make a
better job of memorializing hin — for I have a strange presentiment that these
pages nay be read down many future decades.
Grant like nyself was approaching his forties in the interlude during
which I knew hin, six feet in height, weighing nearly two hundred pounds, every
pound of it evenly distributed over his fine, upstanding, soldierly figure.
He had a well-shaped head with long oval skull, the forehead rising high, with
thin dark hair combed smoothly down age.inst his scalp from a part at the left.
Eis features were heavily but symmetrically set, with an e.quiline nose above a
generous mouth.
But if you cane into his office and net Grant for only a
. moment across
the desk top in the southeast corner of his inner roon, you would have gone away
with a memory of a jovial-spoken but sedate businessman, with a pair of rimless
spectacles before trusting brown eyes, and a club moustache on a firm upper lip
that expressed his clean-cut, well-turned-out personality at a glance.
I first met Grant when he wrote me in care of my book publishers shortly
after Drag was issued. He saw possibilities in the book as a screen vehicle for
Henry Walthall and asked me to let him offer it as such to producers. The queer
part of this incident was, remarked upon by him on the last night that Helen and
I saw him alive, that our personal contact lasted for the exact time between the
publication of the book and its final sale to Dick Bartholness as a film role.
That was six years in length. Poignantly enough, when the story was finally
bought for the screen, it was Larry Giffen in New York who put through the deal.
Grant sold many screen dramas of mine, however, and from time to time made a
fair amount of money handling my work. But the book that brought us together
never netted hin a penny, and the week that I closed the contract in the east
was followed by a trip back to the Coast wherein I shook the hand of this fine
friend of mine for the final time.
In 1932 he died.
So, in a manner of speaking, it is with a beloved ghost that I linger for
a few pages in this economized narrative and recall an interlude in my life that
held many a happy monent that I could not then appreciate, in the profit of this
gentleman's unique comradeship. For Grant Dolge will always stand out in the
uenory of all of his friends on both sides of The Veil as the modern Nobleman.
I do not write mawkishly or with the slightest bias. Wherever he is at this
nonent, like my father, I salute him!
You were a good pal, Grant. I have not forgotten you. Let me get this
awful earthly mess of a muddled society off my hands and you and I will sit dorm
for another of our good talks, both of our twin bootsoles comfortably planked
against some celestial desk while callers wait in the outer office through an
incident of aeons! . .
One of the happiest Christmas seasons of my life — and almost the only
one that I ever spent away from the East and the children — was the yuletide
of 1926-1927 in California, with Helen helping Matie decorate the Shaw home
with evergreens, and the afternoon before Christmas spent with Grant and old
Colonel Webster — a
, retired army man who rented desk-spa.ee for a real estate
business in Grant's outer office — the three of us going from home to home of
the players under Grant's management, admiring each tree, leaving presents for
levies of youngsters, accepting a seasonable snifter out of clandestine hut
excellent "private stock" — for those werethe days of a fancied Prohibition
in the land. I drank so many toasts to the season, to the fair ladies in the
houses where v;e called, to the movie industry, to all the Jewish cemeteries,
to the Prohibition nuisance, that by the time I reached Pasadena — to pick up
I
v
i
i
n
n
a Helen and make her my partner at a
, Christmas Party at Grant's home that
night — the landscapes had a tendency to do many weird gymnastics.
On my desk before me as I write is a sizable pottery humidor which Grant
presented to me that Christmas Eve, ten years in the pn.st. At that memorable
yuletide ga.thering, which wa.s never repeated, was Chester Conklin and Mack
Swain — two of moviedom's outstanding fun-makers in those days, conducting
themselves with painful decorum as behooved celebrated laughnakers away from the
camera. Strange, that humidor is my only souvenir of that one perfect friend-
ship, an association that never held the slightest suggestion of a tiff on either
side, 'where never a word of criticism was uttered fron either side. Funny how
such a thing as a little blue pottery jar with a cover, standing mutely here on
ny desk, can bring a choke to my throat and a
. longing to my heart for dear famil-
iar f<aces that have vanished with the years. I remember that when Grant took
the humidor from the tree, he handed it to Helen. Its weight surprised her and
she dropped it. Two pounds of the rarest and finest pipe-tobacco procurable in
Hollywood, was spilled across the rug. I persisted in salvaging the last pre-
cious spoonful and my New England parsimony nearly broke up the party.
The last time that Grant made a gift to Helen was the final night that we
visited his home in 1931. He presented her with a silver dinner-knife, two eye-
let holes punched in the fl.at of its blade up ne.ar the end. All the evening
Helen puzzled over the purpose of this knife and why those holes had been cut in
its blade. Grant had his quiet chuckle as she affected politely to know per-
fectly'well what the knife was used for in a lady's kitchen. As we arose to de-
part, he could restrain himself no longer. "I've got to set you right," he said.
"That's not a kitchen knife. It's a dinner knife. A New England dinner knife."
"New England?" Helen suggested innocently.
"Well, I remember that when I lived in New England, most of the natives
ate with their knives. And this happens to be a pea, knife. At lea.st two peas
to each scoop will settle in the holes and you're practically sure of conveying
then to your nouth." And the lovable small-boy in Grant filled the room with
his guffaw.
Was it any wonder then, that when he came out to Eddie's bungalow in
Culver City one summer's night in the year which followed and advised us that
he had bought an airplane, and was going to sponsor Dick Grace in a flight to
los Angeles from Honolulu, that I joined into the spirit of that vagabond enter-
prise with all the enthusiasm that I could call up. Presently we were encasing
our plane in an outgoing Hawaiian steamer. Dick Grace went along, and a mech-
anician, and a couple of aids. Whereuponthe nerve-wracking wait began — to
learn that our boy was winging his way in toward us from the sunset.
Dick was a pink-faced, lean, blue-eyed boy, the final word in daredevil
courage. It was expected to make the Pa.cific Lindbergh out of him if he made
the hop in safety. No one had ever made that flight, solo, fron the Hawaiian
Islands to the American mainland. Aviators who hung up such records in those
early years of flying were the popular idols of the public on principle.
Eddie and I had spent three febrile weeks closing all sorts of oil and
nerchandise contracts. I had sold the story of the flight to the Hearst news-
papers for $8,000. The popularity of Grace, if he was first to cover the dis-
tance alone, would have meant thousands upon thousands of dollars for us for
his appearances at air meets, in movie weeklies, even at county fairs.
155
Those were hectic days and nights that a group from Grant's official
family spent, waiting in his private office for word to cone that our hoy was
in the air — winging his way to fane and our fortune. But instead of word that
Dick was in the air, we began receiving cables begging that we wire hin noney
for new tires. He could not get into the air with his gas load. The air of the
tropics was "mushy" excepting in early morning. Each time that Dick tried to
pancake his plane off ground — from Barking Sands Naval Field — he popped those
pneumatic tires. Again and again he tried. And they were standing us seventy
to eighty dollars the pair. By the tine that new tires had been fitted on, the
sun had come up and the mushy air prohibited lifting traction. He must there-
fore wait until the morning following. For four days and nights I did not take
ny clothes off. I slept in Grant’s office on the divan, awaiting the electric
word that the take-off had been accomplished . . while Grant went off home and
caught up on his slumber.
On the fifth day, when our nerves were wearing badly beneath the strain,
a cable arrived from Dick stating that ho would make his last try next day but
that conditions were so auspicious that it would be best to launch preparations
for his arrival. Eddie went into action. The Mayor of Los Angeles was to be
present at the specially roped off field where Dick would come down, and a city
council, not to mention a speech. All Los Angeles, excited by newspaper stories
of the attempt, would be upon that field. We hired two bands and made up a re-
ception committee of movioland's fairest <jue«ns, • -
•
"Well," sa.id Grant on that final night -- wfcich incidentally happened to
be the night before July 4th — "another twenty-four hours tells the story of
whether we win or lose," He said it in his tired but indefatigable good sports-
manship. If Dick failed now, after the expense he had cost all of us to date,
both Grant and his pair of partners were slated to pay strict attention to lucra-
tive business for quite a time to come, "You go home and get some read, sleep,"
he cautioned me, "I’ll stand watch tonight and be here to answer cables."
I borrowed his Studebakor and drove out to Eddie’s, Culver City being
handier than Pasadena, At five o'clock in the morning I heard the blare of the
phone through the haze of patchy slunbor. It could have but one meaning —
either Dick had taken off, or broken his neck. Six weeks of work and most of
our liquid money was in that wildcat project.
"Yes?" I responded.
"Bill? . . GrantI . . How’s your courage this nice morning of the nation's
most famous birthday?"
"How bad is it, Grant?"
"I don't know yot. Just a newspaper flash. But . . our boy’s g-gone
down."
"Have we lost hin, Grant?"
"Don't know yet. But I guess our crate’s a washout. Mechanic's cable
said some cockeyed thing about 'saving the engine and prop’."
"I'll be right down, Grant."
"Okay. I’m going hone and sleep ny fool head off."
I hurried into Hollywood. The papers learned more as I made the five-
nile trip. Dick had managed to get off-ground but something had gone wrong
after forty minutes flying. As I unlocteltte office door I saw a long Western-
Union cable shoved under the door-crack —
BROKE RUDDER POST IN FINAL TAKEOFF STOP VI3RATI0N TO SHIP SO
BAD EA£ TO TURN BACK STOP SET HER DOWN IN SURF AFTER DUMPING
GAS LOAD STOP OKAY PERSONALLY STOP STARTING HOME WITH ENGINE
AND PROP TOMORROW STOP TRIED MY BEST SORRY
DICK
156
He had. tried his "best! What a heartache in that line.
Afterwards we learned from the mechanics that the boy had done one of the
nost magnificent jobs of flying ever known in the Islands. He had finally pan-
caked into the dark without bursting more tires. At last he was winging —
toward home and fane. But nsdaylight grew in the roseate east, a strange vi-
bration of his "stick" began to nunb his am. He turned and examined the rear
of his fusilage. Thereat his vitals turned to clabber . .
In the last nonent of the take-off, scarcely able to "get his tail up",
his drag-stick had hit a water-bar on Barking Sands Field. It had snapped the
welding of the rudder-post from the fusilage rods in the ship's nain body. His
rudder was commencing to hang perilously from the top welding and the ship was
increasingly becoming unmanageable. The Islands had long since passed from sight,
he was out over the watery wastes of the Pacific. What must have been the
thoughts in the brave lad’s heart as he realized that not only were the expenses
and dreams of the past few weeks in vain, but that he stood to plunge to his
death any minute. Anyhow, he had to turn back . . providing he could do it.
There was not to be any Los Angeles reception after all. The whole adventure
was a bust. But even turning the ship about was to be a feat — with that rud-
der pulling loose. Nevertheless, he managed it. Back toward Barking Sands
Field he went hobbling in dawn. He found the Islands and tried to get down. A1
he could do was to dump his gas load and throw off his switch to prevent a fire.
Then he swooped toward the water and headed into breakers.
Up the coral beach-rammed Grant's pathetic little ship and into a mass of
hau bushes, carrying our load of high heart hopes with it.
Everything was crackI
f 1BANT slept all that day and came down to faco the debris of his gamble. But
^
1
) he took it like a sportsman. Never a word of complaint or temper passed his
lips. He knew how to grin.
We had a bottle of champagne in the office that some well-wisher had
brought in for Dick, had his flight been successful. "I suppose," said Grant
dryly, "we might as well drink it up,"
We opened the champagne and consumed it together. Men get close, close,
in an episode like that. Along toward dusk I secured my roadster from the park-
ing lot and drove home to Pasadena. The champagne had begun to fizz in an over-
wrought system. I was exhausted, sick, and wretching when I abandoned the car
in Shaw's driveway and tried to negotiate the steps.
Out from somewhere came a tail angel with golden hair end strong capable
nands. She got her arms beneath my shoulders. She would be on hand in such a
predicament.
"Don't try to tell me," she said in gentle whisper. "We've seen the
evening papers."
"I g-guess I d-drank some bad . . champagne. They b-brought in a bottle
for D i c k -
- "
"Let me help you to bed."
No one in my life had ever been quite so tender, so considerate, before.
I was helped upstairs, into my room, into the depths of a soft, cool bed. Prac-
ticed hands removed my outer clothing. Ice pp.cks wont under my throbbing, spin-
ning head. I was in the hands of an expert at taking care of helpless people
and knew it as the chamber span in faster and more horrible circles, and my stom-
ach cramps got worse.
I remember that once toward midnight I opened torrid eyes in a
, great gro-
tesque head. The room was lighted by the rays of the arc lamp coming in from the
corner. In such eerie illumination I beheld someone sitting very quietly but
vigilantly at the side of my bed. I moved. The watcher moved also . .
157
"Feeling better?" cane the whisper. It was not an apparition. Someone
had been watching over ne in the dark thus for hours, days, weeks, years I How
cone?
I went skyrocketing off into more spiral nebulae. When I cane out of it,
sick and exhausted, a new sun of July 5th was prying under the lacey curtains.
Helen, nakipg no pother whatever about her long and patient vigil, was running
the shades to the top of the windows.
"Have you been tending ne all night?" I demanded of her.
"Nevermind ne. How are you feeding?"
"Rotten, thank you. The flight was a bust. Dick ranned the plane into
a lot of hau bushes and spilled out on his head."
"I'm so sorry. I knew it was going to end that way, but couldn't bear to
tell you. You just had to go through with it."
"You knew it? How?"
"Oh well. Call it . . a woman's intuitive sense."
She put fresh ice packs under my throbbing cranium. I found that most
emphatically she was not the kind of sickroon Samaritan who jiggled the bed.
"It was sporting of you to t-take care of ne," I stammered. "Did Matie
see the binge I was in?"
"Matie understands, the same as I understand. You remember I said that
we’d be the ones to fix up the pieces."
"Listen," I said, "if you'd give me a first-class bawling out, it'd seen
a lot more natural."
"Why should anyone give you a bawling out, as you tern it? You tried
your best to do something and failed. Just better luck next tine."
She tidied the room and went down for my breakfast. Breakfast in bed —
ne! There were flowers on the tray. What sort of a
. woman had I met who did not
think it the correct and requisite thing to make scorching — or at least sar-
castic — remarks when a chap had gambled crazily and lost? No, nothing but
gentleness and , . bettor luck next tine!
I said, "I'm not sorry for myself. I'm sorry for Grant. It leaves him
in an awful hole."
"I know. I'm sorry for him too. He's so calm and wistful and splendid.
Dirl you leave him quite all right? Is there something I could do for him, do
you think?"
"If that stale joy-water got him as it got me, he's in one nell of a hess
I can tell you that. I feel as though I'd swallowed the whole Los Angeles drain
age system."
She had to go to the hospital shortly after that — a
. whole day of it.
And no sleep all night on account of ny bust. Yet she did not seen to mind.
I dozed all day, not arousing till evening. Helen cone again when her day's
work was ended.
"You did wise to follow my orders and remain call day in bed."
"It wasn't your orders. I'n a washout. I've kissed goodbye to about
thirty thousand smackers. What do you know about that?"
"You'll be making them back in no time at all,"
She brought ne up ny supper. Again there were flowers on the tray . .
"I'n going to give up ny place at the Hospital and do priva.te nursing for
a tine," she remarked before she went to a well-earned rest that night.
"I'll give you a job, right out of hand."
"You'd better get one airplane flight settled before you start another,"
was her warning.
Never in ten years since has she ever upbraided ne for any venture which
I started and foozled, YThat should one do with a woman like that?
I know what I did. I married her.
That was one way to settle it!
158
CHAPTEH TWENTY-ONE
P^UT not for eight years.
P j In the first place, I was not free to narry anybody. In the second place,
—J I was not particularly interested in matrimony, anyhow. Why narry again?
True, I had ny moments when, had I "been free to do so, I night have proposed to
a whole flock of women. But I would have done it to find sanctuary from the
insufferable tumult that ny life was becoming, to find something in 'Woman that
no woman was capable of giving load X possessed sense enough to know it. I had
an amazing way to go, and awful inner turmoil to still, a sentinel to pass at
the portcullis of Spiritual Accomplishment, before it was ny role to again become
a benedict.
I went back to New York.
"well, Mary," I said, as I sat with my literary shepherdess in Keene's
chop house in West 35th Street one rainy Sunday night, "again I'm obliged to
make some new noney quick."
"What have you done with the money you've earned?"
"Oh, I've got some of it invested various places. But most of ny liquid
cash has gone into that Pelley & Eckels brainstorm in Hollywood, trying to make
a business of 'creating' . . that and a darned big ocean east of Honolulu."
"Whatever possessed you to gamble on an air-flight?"
"My friendship for Grant." She knew about Grant . .
"Oh yes. Of course. X forgot you might have won."
"I'm not worried over noney. There's more to be made. I merely want
some quick."
Our dinner had been eaten. Before ue was spread a rod checkered table-
cloth. Overhead the beams were heavy with clay pipes, hundreds of clay pipes.
You could buy a pipe at Keene's, autograph it, have it put away upon the rafters
for you to call for it ten years thereafter.
Mary was one of those women who smoked a cigarette by nervously tapping
its edge on an ashtray. She never enjoyed snoking and usually did it just to
keep her brother company. The night was soggy. She was wearing a shapeless
felt hat that indicated the distance we had. cone together since that formal
first luncheon at the Plaza. Nearly three years bygone! It scarcely seened
possible.
"Life's funny," sighed Mary, Countless thousands of persons have given
expression to that antique sentiment on rainy Sabbath evenings. She did not
want to be original.
"What's the chance of selling Merle a bill of short stories in a hurry?"
"You won't WORK," she despaired. "The kind of stories that Merle wants,
that you night sell him in a hurry, are never the kind turned off in a hurry.
If for once in your life you'd get down and grind -
- "
"To get down and grind a man must have incentive. I've got no incentive.
I mean, outside my sudden need for cash."
She drew a ragged sigh. V
i
e had nowhere else to go. Trade was moribund
at Keene's. We ordered fresh cups of coffee to alibi our lingering . .
"Incentive!" she echoed. Her fine face was sad. "What a queer word it
is. How much it covers up."
I knew that on nights like the present her thoughts would turn back to
the man she had lost.
"What does it cover up?"
"I suppose . . the hope . , the very frail hope . , that someday in the
years we'll tread out into a beautiful and tranquil valley where everything
we've longed for, and dreamed about, will suddenly lie before us."
It was a
. night for reminiscing, for conjecturing, for whimsy , . .
159
"Why tranquil, especially?
"Isn't it tranquility that all of us are seeking?"
"I suppose so, yes. And life's a sojourn in giving us tumult so that
tranquility can he recognized and appreciated when we find it."
"You know," she mused, "at tines you impress me as someone I've known
very close, a long, long time ago . . "
"Need we go so far to know the basis for that?"
"No, I suppose not. What are we going to do?"
"I know what I'm going to do. I'm going to write and sell a ness of
stories. Listen, . . as I was coming through Chicago one of the Blue Book
editors gave me a corking idea for a yarn. About this old Spiritist duffer,
Sir Oliver Lodge."
"What about Sir Oliver?"
"Well, the rumor's out that his boy Raymond, the one he wrote the book
about, isn't dead at all. He's reported alive and doing well in Canada. But
he can't declare himself to the world without smashing his old nan's profession-
al career. He's supposed to be dead, Raymond. The old man's claimed that he
talked with him in spirit."
"So what?"
"Think of the drama in it! The old nan's committed himself on this
spiritualistic humbug. The father's famous, so the son has to sacrifice his
whole life to his parent's goofy blunder -
- "
"Except that it's no blunder."
"All the sane, the lad's exiled from home and family, kept from divulg-
ing his identity -
- "
"Raymond's not in Canada," Mary told me quietly, "And you'll not write
about it at all."
I looked at her puzzled. I saw her face become such a mask of pain that
it made me cry quickly, "Mary, what's the natter?"
Her suffering passed. She gave a rueful smile. "You should never try to
write of things you don't know about. It isn't . . nice!"
"You moan . . you go in for . . that sort of thing?"
"I don't 'go in' for anything. There are privacies we don't violate."
" — all the same, I could write a
. gorgeous yarn on that dramatic
premise — "
"And ten years from now suffer the tortures of the damned because you'd
been guilty of such an indiscretion. No, Bill. Stick to your airplane flights.
They're safer."
"Why should I suffer any tortures of the damned? And especially ten years
hence?"
She answered, eyes downcast and voice husky, "Someday, Bill, you'll look
back upon this period and see that you've only lived half your life."
"Sure. I'm only thirty-seven."
"I don't mean in years."
"What is this mystical 'other half', to live?"
"Sir Oliver Lodge could tell you," she suggested.
I said after a moment's thought, "Do you really think it's possible to
hold converse with the dead?"
"Don't let's discuss it. Not here in a restaurant."
I was profaning a sort of privacy, I sow. And she was my dear sister in
Predicament. "Well," I said, "I must get going somehow. I'd certainly hate to
think that I'd written ny last story."
"You haven’t written your last story. As a natter of fact, your real
story masterpiece is ahead for you to do."
"And where’s the incentive coming from?" I bantered.
She took some tine in answering. "Maybe," she decided, "from the same
160
place that Sir Oliver Lodge found inspiration for his 1Raymond1. 1
1
"You're trying to tell ne that ny own son may die, something of the sort?"
"No, no. 1 said a place. I didn't say a
. person."
"And how do I cra&h through, to get the incentive for that sort of story?"
"Some of us do it by waiting," she answered.
"Waiting for what? Death?"
"N-No, . . waiting for . . Life!"
"You're just talking riddles."
"Perhaps. Because you're thirty-seven."
"Listen, lady dear. You're not so terribly ancient yourself."
"Oh why must you gauge everything I say by silly mortal years?"
"why not come out bluntly and tell me what you’re driving at?"
"Because what I'm driving at can't be told bluntly. It's nothing to hear
from somebody else. It's something you must LIVE!"
YEE SAIN beat groggily against the chophouso windows. A waiter yawned sleepily
•
* up near the desk . .
"Mary," I said huskily, "I'm in a devil of a ness."
"I know you are, Bill. And it wrenches ny heart that there's no way I
can help you."
"I've done too many things. And nost of then wrong."
"No, not exactly. You haven't done then strong enough."
"I know. I should have taken Marion's advice, stayed up in Vermont,
stuck to ny knitting, lived in ny children, been as much like all other staid
family non as so many sparrows on a
. roof."
"God forbid!" she cried.
"Mary," I went on, "have you ever stopped to think how much like the ani-
mal kingdom the human race is? For instance, consider the strange fact that the
animals all fall into one of two divisions, the carnivori and the ruminants,
the preyers and the preyed upon."
She frowned a pretty frown and played with a natch.
"That portion of the animal kingdom," said I, "whose vision is focussed,
the great cats, the bears, the wolves, the hyenas — the hawks and owls among
the birds — are the stalkers and killers. And they travel alone. They're the
fierce individualists. And that portion of the animal kingdom whose vision is
sidereal, whose eyes are flat against the sides of its hoad and is able to see
both ways at once, is usually vegetarian. It never hunts alone. Always in
flocks or herds. I suppose for protection. It preserves life by flight. But
strangely enough, wherever you find it, in whatever species, every specimen is
just like every other specimen. The herd sinks individuality, or rather, pro-
hibits it from developing. The predatory species is individuality personified."
"All of which proves what?"
"Oh, just a whimsy. By a sort of reverse logic, the individualists — by
the mere fact of their individuality — can't be anything other than Hunters
Alone. On the other hand, the great human herd, ruminative in its habits, every
specimen like every other specimen and thinking it a species of insanity for one
to want to be anything different, nust move together, stay huddled together, seek
safety when safety's necessary in a
. sort of common flight."
"It's Nature's method, I suppose, for developing spiritual awareness,
keenness of perception, quickness of coordination. It's harsh but effective."
"I was thinking of the carnivori, the Stalkers Alone. They can't help
being what they are. They've left the herd psychology behind then nillenia ago.
They've got to roan at will, take their chances of surviving by their own sense
and prowress. Being just a specimen in a herd would k-kill then."
My companion nodded.
161
"They're happy in a lone, isolated, individualistic way, I suppose. At
least they're not so unhappy as they'd be, made to run with a pack or "be nothing
tut a unit that makes up a herd. B-But . . are they satisfied with life? Isn't
it their eternal dissatisfaction with existence as they find it that makes them
the killers — that gives them their distinction?"
"Doubtless," Mary nodded.
"And the basis for their eternal roving, their stalking, their individual-
istic performance, is always Hunger — physical hunger in the brute species —
spiritual hunger in the human."
"Still, I don't see what it proves?"
"Maybe it doesn't prove anything at all. It doesn't need to prove any-
thing. But how the sort of humanity that herds together, and seeks its safety
in life by flight, CAD blister the Stalkers Alone, as it gets the chance?"
"Believe it or not, Bill, you're only . . half a man. Emphasis on the
half."
"Yvhere's the other half that I'm not?"
"Perhaps in the same place that your literary incentive is for the moment.
No, I don't meanthat exactly. Perhaps she's right here in life --- "
"She! Oh fiddlesticks. Let's leave the woman-business out. You make me
feel erotic."
"What you truly need is for someone to go along behind you and close up
the vacuums,"
"Vacuums!"
"Let it pass. You wouldn't understand anymore than you understand about
Sir Oliver and Raymond. But you're the sort of person whose life is meant to do
the world's pushing-ahead, creating vacuums behind it. If no one fills them up,
you feel their backward pull, I'd close them up for you if I could, but those
are not our roles."
W
E TALKED in desultory fashion after that for a time. Mary wrecked another
cigarette, one puff and eight taps, two puffs and twelve scrapes on the edge
of the ashtray. I wanted to tell her a whole heartful of things but the finger
pointed otherwise on the Cosmic Signpost.
"Come to think of it, Mary," I ventured, "you're in pretty much the same
box, aren't you? . . stalking alone, no part of the herd . . ?"
She said, "I'll find my tranquil valley, sometime, somewhere."
I knew she did not mean matrimony. That sort of Tranquil Valley was
bigger than mere mating.
I said, "I'm coming to understand why it's possible for some people to
end the futility by suicide. I figured up the other day that since those days
in the factory with father and counting the sums I made in that period, I've
been responsible for earning with my own hand or brain nearly three-quarters of
a million dollars. I'm not exactly broke at present, and I haven't lost my
earning capacity, but what I mean is, . . 1 seem to have gotten the increment
already from two or three men's normal lives. I’ve been everywhere I want to go.
I've done everything I want to do. I've had about every kind of experience that
a nan could undergo excepting a permanent crippling. I've got nothing to live
FOR. Oh I don't mean in the sentimental sense, another person, anything like
that. I'm talking about things strong enough, and deep enough, to make life a
splendid Going-On! Lifo for me isn't a Going-On. It's a going AROUND."
"This Hollywood 'creating' business with Eckels, it isn't turning out as
you originally expected?"
"I'm bored to distraction. Or rather, its distractions bore me to tears."
"I'm not at all surprised,"
"I'm finding out that to 'create' a thing you've got to stay with it,
162
put a Io
n
,
;
] nurturing attention into it, to make it sta.ck up to you as having
any value. If God loves the world with a surpassing love, as the Good Book
tells us, it's not hecause of the chore of creating it hut because it’s such a
contrary, cantankerous old place, and has taken such a lot of headache to bring
up to the present. Even the act of procreating, of bring into being, means
little or nothing. What does parenthood mean to a turtle that deposits a lot
of eggs in the sand and leaves them to the sun and elements to hatch?"
"Never having been a turtle, I'm afraid I can’t answer you. You feel as
if you’d completed a definite cycle, is that what you imply?"
"I feel, my dear, as if I’d completed a definite life. Two or three
lives!"
"Well, perhaps you have."
"And then what?"
"One can always start another."
"But why?"
"I was hoping you’d ask HOW?"
"That's exa.ctly the trouble. It's in the Why, not the How, that my
present torment lies."
"Which is a whole lot healthier condition to be in than you suspect at
this moment."
"Healthier!"
"So long as the ’Why’ is such a terrific factor in the equation of your
life, you'll square the Life Cycle, find a way to go on. We all do! It’s
Kisnet."
"You don't think then, that we find out the 'Why' by turning on the gas
or buying a gun?"
"Some folks do, certainly. Then again, it’s equally findable right here
in life. You see, Bill, I don't think it makes any difference to the finding-
out whether or not we're encumbered with mortal sheathing. Being in or out of
it — the mortal sheathing — has nothing to do with solving the Why. What dif-
ference does it nake, while solving a proposition in geometry, whether or not
we happen to be wearing an overcoat? Such nonsense! What really has an over-
coat, or any sort of raiment, got to do with solving a mental equation, or put-
ting together a proposition in Spirituality? They're two different factors in
two different elements."
"If I got out of the mortal overcoat, as you put it, I might find the
answer."
"Not at all, . . don't be silly. It's a perfectly absurd notion to which
the orthodox subscribe that the minute they get shed of the physical overcoat
they immediately know all the secrets of Cosmos. It does a lot of damage."
"You think that wo don't?"
"I know that we don't."
I said in a banter, "Have you ever been dead?"
She answered sedately, "I think that all of us have been dead — a great
many times."
"And what is it like?" I asked, taking her literally.
"Not a bit different from what we know here, at least insofar as the
Tranquility's concerned. Tranquility's not a matter of location, . . it's hav-
ing a philosophy, . . coming into a Kingdom."
Wise Mary! But how could I know then how truthfully she spoke? I said,
"Maybe it's tranquility not to know anything. It might be a relief when at
tines we know too much."
"Have you ever heard of any such state?"
"It says in the Bible, 'the dead know not anything' . . "
"It says a lot of things in the Bible that we have to possess a philoso-
163
phy to grasp. One minute you talk about acquiring the secrets of Cosmos "by
blowing out your brains, then next your declare that the dead know not anything.
Make up your mind, but anyhow talk sense."
"Does the Bible make sense?"
"The New Testament makes sense — a whole lot more sense than we may have
the philosophy to recognize." She herded a little bevy of crumbs about on the
cloth. With downcast eyes she murmured, "A man is hungry, . . I suppose he could
stop his hunger by killing his body, . . the trouble is, the sort of hunger that
you and I feel isn't an essence which killing affects."
"There must be an answer to it somewhere."
"Yes, I think there's an answer. But being in or out of flesh has little
or nothing to do with the premise — or finding the answer. It’s coming into a
consciousness of it. Suddenly! And consciousness as Consciousness is apart
from our . . overcoats."
Since she had brought the subject up, I ventured, "Where do you think
people go when they die?"
"I don’t think they go particularly anywhere. Where is there to go?"
"You don1t think they go to heaven?"
"Astronomically speaking, just where is heaven?"
"Maybe on another planet. Anyhow, I don’t know,"
"Neither does anyone. Personally speaking, I’m inclined to agree with
what the Elder Brother told us. The kingdom of heaven is WITHIN ourselves. He
didn’t mean inside of our bodies, in the space that’s shared by our lungs or our
vitals. He must have meant WITHIN OUR CONSCIOUSNESS, our state of perceiving, as
big as it can grow. And that continues, and grows, whether we’re encased in our
physical outer garments of bone and cuticle or are wandering around without them
in danger of catching a permanent cosmic cold."
"But we have to possess the mental overcoat, at least, or we can’t per-
ceive anything. We can’t have consciousness apart from the body."
"No? Who said so?"
"Can we?"
"I certainly don’t think this body I’m sitting in, was responsible for
all the ingredients that constitute my soul. Was yours?"
Why did there flash before my eyes in that moment the picture of a little
boy, out on the knoll behind the Fairbanks house in East Templeton sunshine?
What about that Mystical Moment when I had glanced down and perceived my small
dumpy body and wondered in a panic where I would have been if the universe had
not "happened" . . ?
"Not in that way, no. Then heaven, you think, is a state of philosophy?"
"Heaven," she said slowly, choosing her words, "is a state of spiritual
recognition that everything worthwhile in life is folded up tightly within our-
selves — and knowing that it will blossom — and watching it blossom — and en-
joying its blossoming — beholding the perfect flower that finally results."
She tilted her chin. "Find THAT by changing fleshly overcoats, or wandering
around the stars in a sort of cosmic nakedness ahead of time? Fiddlesticks!"
"Then knowing the ’Why’, in your philosophy, isn’t a matter of dying?"
"It decidedly is not. There's no such thing as dying •
— in my philoso-
phy. The ’Why’ comes to us in some moment of terrific realization, maybe rev-
elation, when we’re least expecting to stumble onto it, . . in that moment when
it finally dawns upon us consciously just why we were created."
"Ah, that's it precisely! When it dawns on us CONSCIOUSLY." In a longer
silence I added, ” — and don’t you see, that is the ’Why’?"
"It’s been my experience," said Mary, feeling for her wrap and thrusting
in an arm, "that such a moment rarely comes to us when we’re consciously watch-
ful of its arrival. Don't forget that it was Christ again who said, ’He who
164
loses his life, shall find it.’ I’ve always interpreted that to mean as well,
'Try to "
b
e forever finding your life and it's a sure shot that you'll lose it.'
"I see. To find your life you should junp into a river and save some
moron's life at the expense of your own?"
"No," Mary snapped, "losing the consciousness of one's self in the con-
sciousness of others."
"I see. I should go as a missionary and live among those everlasting
katydids in Aoyaua Compound!"
"I daresay the nurse-friend of 3
/ours, whom you mentioned up in the apart-
ment this afternoon, isn't all fussed up with the 'Why' of her existence."
What answer could I make?
I glanced at the check and felt for my wallet , .
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
GOT out of my temporary jam "by a strange quirk of fortune,
Nearly everybody who has been to New York knows the animated electric news
. bulletin that encircles the building in the center of Times Square. The man
who developed that notorgraph sign was an ingenious Irishman by the name of Frank
Riley. Frank Riley made money in his olectrica.l sign business, then had a quain>
weakness for sinking it in plays. Stage plays. Plays that rarely made any money.
Always Frank was about to roll up a fortune by rolling up the curtain on some
conedy that would run upon Broadway for a hundred thousand nights. This yen for
producing made Riley my friend.
Again as with Grant, it was my third novel, Drag, that brought us to-
gether. Riley had read Drag and believed it would make a
. stage hit for the
fellow Glenn Hunter. Frank was also the intimate friend of that other bril-
liant actor-preducer, Frank Craven — a canny Scot who never lost a dollar in
show business. It must have been a case of the attraction of opposites. At any
rate word was got to me that if I cared to submit Drag as a stage play, Riley
and Craven might produce it.
I hunted up Riley. I found him in a high corner office of the Brokaw
building, one of the skyscrapers to the south of Times Square. This office, in
addition to being cluttered up with every conceivable gadget in process of dev-
elopment, was hung with pictures of notorious folk — all autographed to Frank —
from Elbert Hubbard to the Prince of Wales. How that Irishman ever fanaggled
the Prince of Wales' picture is beyond me. Thomas A. Edison and Theodore N.
Vail sha.red honors with George Arliss and Minnie Madden Fisk. EvenW. C. Fields
ogled out of a corner. Two months after knowing Frank,the fellowPelley's
picture was likewise in that gallery. Frank had a penchant for hanging up his
friends . .
He was a short, stocky, half-bald little Celt, about the same as myself
in years, with black eyebrows, sharp sparrow featuros in 0.face growing rotund,
and a sense of Irish humor that was one uproarious comedy. If Frank had simply
walked upon the stage and been his own production, he might have made his mil-
lion. His daily conversation was one eternal chuckle. No matter what his troub-
les, he could turn them with a laugh.
Did I want to see Drag produced as a stage play? Did a duckwant to
swim? I got down to tacks wr
ith Riley. Iwent up to hishomo on West End Ave-
nue and met Nellie, his wife. They had a son named Ted. I certainly met Ted.
We all sat in the Riley living-room after many sumptuous dinners and drank high-
balls together. All but Frank himself. He could not drink highballs. They
gave him styes on his eyelids. Betwixt and between such diversions I hied my-
self away to a hotel suite and made a play of Drag. Frank by the surname Riley
165
took it to Frank "by the surname Craven, and it was subsequently reported to me
that the linos which I had written even made that Scotsman la.ugh. Verily they
did more. They made that Scotsman dig down in his financial pants and actually
hand me a whole thousand dollars, option and royalties paid in advance. I was
to have a play produced on Broadway by Frank Craven, who had never been known
to pick a boxoffice flop. Well, perhaps life was looking up.
But alas and alack, something else was looking up. Looking me up. Those
notes of Stone's and Gilpins which I had left up in Vermont. No, despite all
ay earnings, I had never paid those notes. A sense of the equities involved had
left then in hiatus. I had suffered in body and purse while freezing on those
wintry wastes of Siberia for Uncle San while my friends in Vermont had been
fighting the war by buying interest-bearing bonds. So each time that Stone or
Gilpin wrote me about settling up those notes, I wrote then back curtly if I
wrote them at all. I advised then in such tines that I recommended them taking
their negotiable paper securely in their hands, finding a large and handy body
of water without an outlet and submersing themselves in it with permanency and
despatch. "Well," said an attorney in lower Broadway to me, "since you've been
in California we've got a judgment on you in York State by publication and de-
fault. Will you pay up — with all lapsed interest — or be garnisheed with all
your editors?"
I bit my lip in rage. Nearly twelve thousand dollars was the sun they
wanted pronto. "All right," I said finally, "I'll tell you what I'll do. I'm
going to have a stage-play produced by Frank Craven. I'll assign you my royal-
ties until the debt is paid. You can either take them on that basis, or I'm
leaving for Vermont to sue Stone and Gilpin for wrecking my beautiful little
property in my absence. I should have done it at the start."
The lawyer took the contracts and called Craven on the phone. The con-
tract was bonafide. "All right," said he, "put your name on the back,"
C *AME the Sunday v/hen I rented a Drive-Yourself car, called for Mary at her
apartment, and we took an all-day drive up through Westchester County,
across to Newburgh, down through Tuxedo into northern New Jersey.
"I've turned the financial corner," I reported. "I'm going back to Cal-
ifornia next week and wait for Drag's production."
"So you're going back to the fleshpots? Oh well, some people have a
penchant for keeping themselves in stews."
"I've got to go back. I've started a lot of things out there that my
friends are involved in. After all, it's my life."
"I suppose it is, . . for the present," she agreed.
It was a marvelous ride that we enjoyed that day, over Bear Mountain and
the Storm King highway. I remember that before it ended I had told her all
about my strange interlude in San Francisco seven years before. I had never
happened to hit on it before when I had been with her. She asked —
"And when you and Marion broke up, why didn't you go back to your Big
Drums girl?"
"The ties between us had been such that once broken they could never be
resumed. Somehow or other the cards were stacked differently . . as they're
stacked with you and me. They could never be played to take the same stakes.
"This nurse at Mrs. Shaw's, . . you say she might be the other girl's
twin sister?"
"The resemblance is uncanny -
- "
"Do you love her?
"Love who?"
"The woman who fetches your meals on a tray?
I answered Mary honestly, "I feel about as resilient in the matter of
166
Romance as a strip of stair carpet in a slum-district "boarding house!”
Mary had a smile in the corner of her mouth . ,
I went away next day.
By the next time I saw Mary, I had traveled through The Door!
CHAPTEE TWENTY-THREE
ILLIAN had once remarked, "Many a divorce begins with the breaking of a
teacup.” It was not a teacup that produced the business divorce between
J Eddie and myself. It was a batch of fresh page-proofs for the current
Ei-Hat. And that inevitable separation was as sudden as it was sharp.
I returned to Hollywood with no especial reasons why I should return
excepting that Grant was there, and Eddie was there, and I had let myself be-
come entangled in a lot of personal obligations toward these two, and somehow
I must work out of then. Aside from these, I had a world of rich experience
tucked away inside my soul, but no apparent use to which it might be put.
The small building which Eddie and I had taken in North Wilton Place
now became nothing but a tawdry packing-case of a structure, three large rooms
on the ground-floor, three abovestairs. In a compartment in the upstairs ell
I had fitted up a bedroom and moved my things from Shaw's. If I were paying
for such quarters I might as well use then. What possible difference did it
make where I lived? When I got my books and manuscripts arranged, yanked down
the bedclothes from a self-made bed, and dumped myself into it, my soul was
filled with loathing.
So this sort of thing was "creating”, was it? . . I extinguished my
bedlanp and lay looking out the window at the clean California noon behind a
barricade of pepper trees. A box bedroom in a nondescript little building,
with a brassy radio cackling next door and a night of hijinks going on in the
Jewish synagogue over the way!
I had an urge to go elsewhere, but where was there to go?
The next afternoon I wandered into Grant's private office and hoisted
ny feet on the sill of the window. I asked —
"Grant, am I 'queer'? . . "
"As a busted cuckoo clock,” he assured me. "What makes it particularly
occur to you now?"
"I'm too danged introspective. Not a thing that I tackle seems really
worth doing. I go just so far in a project,..slide it across, then presently . .
phooie! . . everything's static. Life's a wash-rut -
- "
"I know! Nothing to eat but food. Nothing to wear but clothes. Noth-
ing to drink but the carbolic acid they put out these days for gin!"
"I suppose I ought to be back in New York watching ny boy and girl grow
up, getting a silly 'kick' out of bossing them around as The Popper, fretting
myself into early prostration over various Wall Street trends, improving my
golf — all the bally nincompoopery that makes life so real to most men at
forty. Grant, life's a bust!"
"Listen, feller! Snap out of it. Life's glum enough without you blow-
ing in here and wrecking my day, calling my attention to how I feel myself."
Ee arose and closed his desk. "Cone along out to Hank Walthall's with me.
The ride will do you good."
"I've got to be back by eight. I've got a date with Eddie to go up to
the house of a fellow named Garde — Svende Garde, the novie director out to
Universal City. He's got some sort of gadget he wants to have promoted,"
We drove out to Henry Walthall's. The Little Colonel, who had lcpped to
screen fane under D. W. Griffith in The Birth of a Nation, was working with Lon
167
Chaney that week out to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. As he expected to he acting in
some night shots that evening, he had wanted to see Grant during the interval
of dinner. We parked Grant's coupe before a large colonial house on one of
Beverly Hill's most ^pretentious thoroughfares, and went within to find Henry
not arrived.
"Hello, Grant! . . Hi, Bill!" was Mary Walthall's greeting. "Cone in
and have a cocktail!" Such was Hollywood hospitality.
Mary Walthall was a sprightly little woman with a dash of County Kil-
dare in her eye, whose devotion to Henry was the comment of the movie colony.
She mothered him, she nursed him, she managed him, she looked after his ward-
robe, his meals, his investments. She made a good job of it, and most of
Hank's director's rose up and called her blessed.
"We're having our fortunes told," announced a small, squirming child
as Mary went out to shake the cocktails. "Aunt Mary, she says I'm gonna grow
up and have a large fanbly-
- "
"Want your fortune told, Grant?" asked Mary, passing around the glasses
and resuming her seat. "Shuffle the deck, make a wish, and cut it."
"Cut the wish?"
"Cut the comedy. You've got to be serious or this business doesn't work."
Grant shuffled the deck. He made his wish and handed back the cards.
Mary turned up pasteboards on the taboret before her. "I'll say you're going to
get your wish," she told him presently. "What'd you wish for?"
"Whatta you think I'd be wishing for? To get out of that airplane
scrape financially."
"You'll do it. Swimmingly. Here Bill, it's your turn. Shuffle and
make your wish,"
What did I wish for? Strange caprices go through our minds. "Okay,"
I .announced, handing back the deck.
Mary flipped up cards. She frowned. Then she scowled. Suddenly a
fright passed over her face. "Man, this is terrible! You're headed toward . .
jail!"
"Toward where?"
"You heard me. Jail! A place with bars where you can't get out,"
"For what?"
"How should I know?" She continued to turn up cards. "Of all the
nesses!" I heard her exclaim. "Man, if these cards are telling the truth,
your life's a madhouse."
"That much is truth,"
She turned up two more cards, then dropped the whole pack as though it
were hot. "No more of you for me!" she decided.
"Am I going to get my wish?"
"Not a ghost of a chance!"
I knew nothing then of the marvels of subconscious psychometry at the
tine. How could a handful of greasy cards determine my future because I had
shuffled them? But the psychological effects at the moment were bad. I had
merely wished that my forthcoming play night turn out a success.
The telephone rang as the sun sank on a beautiful August day. It was
Henry calling from the studio. He could not cone down hone, would Grant oblige
him by continuing on to Culver City, the business was important. We finally
went out and got into Grant's machine. Put me out at the carline," I suggested.
"If I go to Culver City I'll miss my eight o'clock appointment."
Are such details irrelevant? They sometimes throw big switches.
"Cheer up," Grant consoled me, as I stood on the crosswalk, banging the
door of the coupe to make certain that it closed. "Things are never so bad that
they couldn't be worse."
168
"I believed that, once. I also recall there used to be a Santa Claus.”
With a forlorn smile and wave of his hand, Grant started his coupe again.
It jounced over the car-tracks and was lost in the traffic. About me, the
Beverly Kills business section was lighting up, crystaline California twilight
was bejeweled with neon signs. I wandered down the blook and waited for ny
trolley. A newsboy cane up and offered me a paper. I felt for money in my
pockets.
My pockets were empty. I had changed into a freshly pressed suit before
leaving my room but neglected to transfer the contents of the pockets. I even
lacked carfare to get back to Hollywood.
"Marooned penniless in Beverly Hills!" I thought sourly. "What a life!
What a life!" It was three miles in to Hollywood.
Then I thought of Lon. His home was two blocks west. I would borrow
some small change from Chaney or Hazel. Over to Linwood Drive I made my way,
the Walthall cocktail not setting over well. Skirting Chaney*s lawn, I ap-
proached the rear door.
Lon was squatting across a chair in the kitchenette with a cold roast,
a loaf of Italian Bread, a bottle of wine before him* ,nLo, Bill," he greeted
me, neither rising nor turning his head.
I went in and sat down.
"Maid's day off," he explained. "Cut yourself a chunk of the sheep. Or
maybe it's cow. How's every little thing?" He was eating in his 'make-up', the
costume of the racing-track tout that he wore in The Unholy Three.
"Rotten," I answered.
He swallowed a generous mouthful of food, wiped off his mouth with the
back of his hand, and finished what wine remained in the glass. "I gotta shoo
you out o' here," he said, glancing at his wrist-watch, "Hazel's gone some-
place and I gotta lock up,"
Somehow he was not the Lon whom I had known. His address was perfunctory.
My introspection was bad enough, but this tolerance was blighting.
"Okay by me," I said stiffly. I would not have asked him for carfare,
not a thin dime. I would have walked to San Francisco before my pride would
let me do it, Lon stopped beside his car to light a cigarette.
"You still mixed up with Eckels?" he demanded,
"Mixed up is right."
"Say," he asked bluntly, "didn't you tell me you were such a big shot
once that the Rockefeller Foundation sent you out to the Orient?"
"Perhaps. Yfhat about it?"
"Oh — I was just wondering."
"I get it. Wondering what's got hold of me, that I’m pottering around
in Hollywood."
"It'd be a danged gpod thing, Bill, if you sorta got wise to yourself,"
l
i
e got into his Cadillac. "Well, so long, old horse. I suppose I'll be seein'
you!"
"I don't suppose anything of the sort," I said blackly.
I knew Lon was piqued for a handful of reasons. I had failed to clique
with the Jew crowd because I would not let them bulldoze me at Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer's where he had a contract at three thousand a week. He was likewise
piqued that I played with the Hollywood screen crowd — forgetting that the sit-
uation with my work was different than his, that I had to do it to stand in with
directors. Finally, he had previously had some tiff with Eddie Eckels. He was
rugged and direct, this fellow Chaney, even if he did put birdies back in nests.
If you failed to measure up, he contrived to let you know it.
So I watched his car disappear likewise in the traffic with an ache in
ny spirit. First Mary Walthall's card trick. Now Lon had intentionally snubbed
169
no. And I had a three-mile walk ahead of me if I hoped to keep my engagement
at Garde's. I walked into Hollywood . .
Life was so rancid within me, a
.
s I trudged on "block after "block, in-
creasingly hungry with no money for food, my clothes growing hot and saggy upon
ne, that long "before I arrived at Gardner Junction my frame of mind was danger-
ous. This couldn't go on. Better to court the sweet sleep of oblivion than
live my life statically or slip deeper into morass . » Suddenly a voice hailed
ne from traffic -
-
"Bill, you dan' louse! Whatta you mean, goin' off hiking?"
It was Eddie in my roadster. He had started out to find me and come on
ne by accident.
"I got caught in Beverly Hills with no money for carfare."
"What'd you go to Beverly Kills for, clipping time so close?"
"Since when couldn't I go where I choose, if I take the notion?"
"We can't make a success of our business with you gadding 'round."
"The way I'm feeling tonight, Eddie, I don't particularly care whether
I make a success of it or not."
"Don't you want to create?"
"Bah!"
"Say, feller, I gave up a six thousand dollar job to kick-in with you and
nake this firm go."
"I know you did, Eddie. That's one of the reasons why I haven't long-
since chucked it."
^VENDE Garde was a blonde Viking of a man who had formerly been a celebrated
J ballet director in his native Copenhagen. His home was reached by climbing
a cement-curved thoroughfare off Sunset Boulevard where it merged in Beverly
Hills. The movie director met us with his continental comity, led us through
a spacious music room and out upon the pateo. Belov? us to the east the lighted
panorama of the Los Angeles valley was a titanic fairy gauze with billions of
twinkling fireflies entangled in its meshes. A servant brought the usual tray
pregnant with ice and many choice decanters. While we were admiring the view,
Mrs. Garde came out briefly. She was deftly gowned, reserved, exotic. Her hus-
band presented us. She stayed only a moment but I had the fleeting impression
of an exquisite jewel, set against deep velvet . .
"A few months ago," began Garde, while ice tinkled pleasantly in three
frosted glasses, "a friend of mine wished the loan of certain funds. He gave
as his security the rights to an invention. I've wondered what possibilities
it night hold for commercial exploitation."
Eddie said, "We're the bright little boys that can discover 'em!"
I said, "What sort of an invention is it, Mr. Garde?" Vaguely I en-
visioned machines for renewing battleships, reforming the radio, sending
space-cars to Mars.
"It is . . ah . . a toothbrush, gentlemen, . , a demountable tooth-
brush! . , see, I will show you."
A toothbrush. Demountable!
Garde drew from his vest a tiny oblong box that had once hold a foun-
tain-pen. Now it held a toothbrush. "You see, gentlemen, sometimes we like
to have our toothbrush with gold or silver handle. But the bristles wear out
and must be thrown away. So by pushing spring . . SO! . . in this invention,
old brush comes out and new brush goes in. It is new toothbrush entirely, yes?"
"Swell!" exclaimed Eddie. "We could do a whole lot with that gadget if
you'd put some real mazuma behind it for promotion."
I turned from my friends and walked to the edge of the pateo*s parapet.
Lillian's Big Drums! Demountable Toothbrushes! I poured the choice highball
170
down into the azaleas and cane back with empty glass.
’
’
Allow me’” cried Garde, reaching for my tumbler.
"No, thanks. One's quite aplenty."
"Perhaps you'd relish some hors d'oeuvres?"
The hors d'oeuvres were more acceptable. I found myself denuding the
silver platter that had come out with the drinks. I was bilious with hunger.
Lillian's Big Druns! . . Lillian's Big Druns! . . gobbling up appetizers
in lieu of my dinner! . ,
Garde's wife summoned him inside to the phone. Eddie came close and
nudged me in the hip.
"F'r gawds sakes, Bill, if you wan'to get any jack out of this guy, come
alive and play up!"
"Suppose we do promote his dinky little mouth-swob, what about it?"
"You wanted to create."
It was all so tawdry, so pathetic, so horrible, that my vitals knew an
anguish, I said, "This isn't creating. It's just funning with jin-cracks."
"It's creating to ME!"
"Yes, Eddie. I know it."
"We've gotta make a showing, with that airplane flop and all — "
"Not messing around with mouth-swobs. At least not for me."
The pathos of it all was getting me, I say. The pathos of all life! . .
little grown-up boys playing around with this or that, motor contraptions, movie
cameras, scantily-clad actresses, airplanes, demountable toothbrushes! . . was
THIS why I was shut in my mortal encasement? Yet how could I tell Eddie? . . how
get him to see it? Garde cane back.
"I would greatly enjoy to show you my library," he invited. "I have some
ver' fine editions."
Eddie looked puzzled and not a little worried. Was he letting us down
easy. We went into the library . .
It was a large corner room with windows east and south. We crossed the
perfectly-appointed music room to reach it. The flavor of this room, the lights
or lack of then, their glint in mahogany of a mammoth piano, recalled a line to
me that I had used years ago in writing The Fog , . something about "art draw-
ingrooms softly shaded at midnight" . . what a long long tine ago I had written
The Fog? . . or was it some other man who had written The Fog? . . demountable
toothbrushes now instead, , . had I actually died somewhere along the years,
possibly in Brightlook Hospital that night with the fever, and was this a form
of consciousness in my personal hell? . .
I became aware of a deep spread of carpet beneath ny feet, a cushion of
sea-green loveliness. I trod upon this carpet. It laved to the walls that
were heavy with books.
Books! Books everywhere! Beautiful books! Here were no serried shelves
of tombstones made for the living by the living but destined too soon to remind
us of the dead. These shelves of Svende Garde's library were electric with res-
onance — finely printed resonance, the tome of Culture. Garde slid back a
case-front and took out bindings lovingly.
Was ny Guardian Angel somewhere in the background that night? Did Kisnet
on distant cloud-forms, ten trillion niles removed, know of the famine in ny
spirit and use a Danish movie director's hone to return me to ny brevet? Did
Svende Garde travel all the way from Denmark, get his job in Hollywood, buy this
house on the side of a mountain, stock it with treasures . . to put an inkling
in my soul that somewhere, sometime, somehow, all the beauties and hearthopes
that entice us may eventually be our argosies coming shoreward in full sail?
I like to believe it. And I trust I am not selfish.
I looked about that library, I beheld the deep-toned polishings, the
171
sacrosanct appointments, the exotic "bibelots, the objets d'art, the darbies,
the bronzes, the shelvings filled with browns, blacks, golden calfskins, fest-
ooned letterings . . a book-lover's paradise.
And yet, all that Svende Garde's library means to me at this moment is
a sea-green carpet that spread beneath my feet. To walk on it! . . that!
I wanted to sob as reactions a million years old surged up through my
hot heart, here was beauty, sanctuary, exquisite tranquility, the crashing
world muffled, all that Art and Man and God had wrought to produce the acne of
a civilization, brought to crux in a room that had books in it like symphonies.
I asked myself, "Why cannot I live forever in a room like this library?
‘
./hat's stopping me from owning one?"
Eddie was fretting to talk about the toothbrush. Ee had a fishy eye for
my subsequent discussion with Garde on the Lindisfarne Gospels, the Homilies of
Chrosystom, the Westminster ■Psalter, the Lectionary of Paris, the Utroct Psal-
ter, the Durandus de Divinis Officiis, the Valerius Maximus.
"What'd you waste tine talking religion to him for?" he later abused me.
"I wasn't talking religion to him, you poor egg. We happened to be dis-
cussing illuminated manuscripts."
"Oh," said Eddie vaguely. And my heart went out to him . .
Sea-green carpet! A room of sea-green carpet! I had let myself become
ship-wrecked, washed up, cast ashore, on an ?rid island of my own circumscrip-
tions. Yet I began to find myself that night.
And a sea-green carpet did it.
I should own such a sea-green carpet. I should know a room, yes even
'an art drawingroom softly shaded at midnight' , that spoke unto my soul in un-
utterable majesties. Pray and why not?
But where? And when? . .
CHAPTER TWENTY-POUR
f^DDIE scareely spoke to me, going home that night.
p1 I said to Mr. Garde on leaving his library, "I don't think we'll be in
— i much of a position to promote your toothbrush. But I have a friend in New
York named Riley who might handle it for you much better,"
This was treason to Eddie, and I certainly did not blame him.
I lay on my bed an hour later staring at those pepper trees. Somehow I
bad a hunch that Mary Walthall's mystical reading of those pasteboards would
prove correct. I knew that Chaney's treatment of me had something more behind
it than any grudge toward Eddie, But over and against these was that green
phantasmagoria of that utterly Magic Carpet.
It had done something to me. Millions of people were later to be affec-
ted by that Something. But I could not then discern it.
I fell asleep to a rocking nightmare of cocktails, playing cards, movie
contracts, toothbrushes, and green carpet, all underwritten by billions of money
from a play that paid in gross counterfeits. I got up next morning with the
inside of my mouth feeling like an uncured goatskin. Eddie was sleeping, I
"®nt down and made coffee. I knew I had a dour time coming with my partner.
I ought to fortify myself with substantial breakfast, but I had fallen into the
bachelor habit of snatching my breakfast and punishing my stomach. I swallowed
black coffee and went upstairs to my desk. On ny desk lay those proofs, I
picked up a pencil and started to correct them. Eddie came in.
"Gimme those!" he snapped. He flipped the clump of them out of my hands.
Around to his desk, facing mine, he went. And he applied himself to reading
then.
172
"You’re not very polite," I admonished, him darkly.
"You've got work to do. Writing stuff. I can read proofs. We night
have got a grand out of Garde last night."
"What's that got to do with you snatching those proofs?"
He returned ne no answer . .
"Does it never occur to you, Eddie, that I'm working with you and not for
you?"
"You're not working at all. Eor anybody. Including yourself."
"Okay, Eddie."
"Now where are you going?"
"Out!"
"Out? My gawd. All yesterday afternoon you gadded — "
"Yes, and I'n going to gad some more."
I put on my hat and went down to ny car. I had no idea where my driving
would take me. What did I care? I must merely DRIVE . . and think . .
I picked up a better breakfast on Hollywood Boulevard. Then I turned
toward Gardner Junction, Beverly Hills. Sea-green carpet had gripped me like
hypnosis. Los Angeles trolley cars ground ponderously along. Children and dogs
v/ere playing on the sidewalks. Frequently traffic tooted me, wanting to get
past me. I drove slowly, aimlessly, ten miles an hour. Sea green carpet. Art
drawingrooms softly shaded at midnight. Big Drums. Toothbrushes.
"I've got to face this business of ny future," I told myself grimly, "I
can't run away from life. I'm in it and must face it."
I kept going southward on Santa Monica Boulevard. I crossed Doheny
Drive. Ahead of me stretched Beverly Hills, bathed in its haze of silent golden
sunshine. I began to run over the highlights of ny life as I ran over cross-
walks .
Everyone spoke disparagingly of introspective people. If I had to be
intrespective, I proposed this morning to make a good job of it. It was un-
thinkable that Life was just a crazy jumble. There had to be a Pattern. Some-
where or other along the line I had tragically missed my cues.
I thought of ny early boyhood dreams, the ecstacy of ny first printing
plant, the interlude with Mabel. These recalled father. Where were either of
those beloved persons at the moment and did they dream of the influence they
were exercising on the soul of a man driving along Santa Monica Boulevard in
California sunshine? I thought of those days after my return from Fulton, in
Springfield, ny job at The Homestead office, how queerly it had cone to ne, ny
meeting with Marion. There must have been destiny in it . . my meeting with
Marion . .
Chicopee, Wilmington, Bennington, the little grave on a far Vermont hill-
side forgotten by all but one woman and God — I looked into each of these ex-
periences without excuse or self-pity. I wanted to discern the very core of
them. I thought of that long cruel fight against the rejection -slips when I
was mastering my craft, and finally down a later day the comment of one of the
editors of The American, repeated to me outside, "I can't make up my mind wheth-
er this chap Pelley is the greatest writer we've got in the nation today, rr
just an ass who knows how to sling sentiment." I had dreams in those days —
something to bouy me up, to carry me along. Why was it ever necessary to have
an incentive? What was incentive? Why did the human spirit, at least my human
spirit, require an enticement, a rainbow always ahead with a gold-pot at the foot
of it? Why not go along and do the job for the job's sake itself? What was it
I was after? Why, ever, eternally, the lambent mirage? . .
"I begin to see what incentive is," I told myself aloud. "It's the sub-
conscious realization that you've got certain capabilities, and you make a wager
with Life and Circumstance that your estimate of self is accurate. When you
173
prove that it is, then the 'novelty' ceases. You 'lose your incentive'. In-
centive then, is just faith in one's estimate of self. The wagers which the
human spirit makes with itself, concerning itself, surpass all other wagers.
'
(
T
h
e
n spirit wins its bet, what remains to be done? what remains to be said?
I debated just where this discovery landed me. I realized for the first
tine that life was becoming a stalemate to me because my spirit could make no
more real wagers with itself as to whether it could accomplish this or that.
Spirit had begun to find out that when it made wagers that it could not do this
or that, it usually lost. It was becoming easy for me to master whatever chal-
lenged my hand, liven tine then, I could work out any problem.
But again, where did it get me? My name on a monument for this or that?
What was it that Socrates had said, "Wouldst you have your nano on granite, 0 man?
Then carve thy name upon a wayside stone and cast it in yon chasm." Something
like that. What did adulation matter? Suppose people did praise you for being
exceptionally good as a specialist? They likewise praised breakfast foods, corn
plasters, pedigreed dogs. To be remarked upon as better than the next man is
only to indicate that you've had the more experience, you've got a little finer
quality of expression in consciousness. Give the poor moron time. Ee will
doubtless catch up with you, and probably will surpass you.
The Pattern. The Pattern. Where was the Pattern? What in the Blind
Accumulate was I striving to get accomplished? That every nan's life must have
its pattern was a subconscious acceptance I refused to disdain. I had done cer-
tain things in business, writing, publishing, movie making. Given time, I say,
I could work out any problem, even these jellybean demountable toothbrush prob-
lems that were Eddie's and my obsessions of the moment. But it was not the mere
working-out of a lot of motions and processes that mattered, since all quantities
after the first success were forever after relative. My soul had been finding
out its own capabilities, and having found them out, would try them on celestial
whetstones.
An artist painted a picture. Into the picture he put all the technique
and spiritual enterprise that he called his Art. He stretched some cloth on
wooden sticks, applied ground dirt and oils to its surface, and got an effect
in outline and color that provoked in the beholder the sane sentiments that he
had felt, which started him off to do his painting. The canvass, the sticks,
the pigments, meant nothing. The finished picture itself meant nothing. It
was still canvass and sticks and pigments. But the artist had gauged a certain
quality of spirit within himself and proceeded to demonstrate that he possessed
it. Ee had given a demonstration of WHAT he was, to the universe, by offering
his handiwork as material prototype. The performance of spirit within him, the
display of himself, to himself or to others, was the thing that got out the pic-
tures.
Artists of any kind then — painters, sculptors, poets — must be terribly
uncertain about themselves to start out with, in their notions and their visions.
To get a spiritual balance and ballast within themselves, they went ahead and
produced works of art. They proved by these works of art whether they had been
right or wrong about- their notions qnd their visions. Ten thousand socalled
artists a year proved that their notions and visions were wrong, and the world
never heard of them. Were not the same purposes served in both the cases of the
worldly successes and the failures? Inward Spirit had determined something.
Having determined it, the purpose was achieved.
It was a strange line of reasoning, but it gave me gratification in that
I felt that I was working it out myself. Even by so doing I was proving the cap-
acities of Spirit to be this or that. Instead of stories, screen dramas, de-
mountable toothbrushes, or even Reuben canvasses, it happened at the moment to be
a philosophical conclusion.
174
I reached the Beverly Hills business section where I had awaited the
trolley car the previous evening. I turned off across a subdivision in process
of development. One street was like another. But the driving helped me think.
I recalled the trip that I had taken to the Orient, the men I had net
there who were doing the work of nations. I thought of the men who had died in
Siberia, the Forgotten of the war, ending their lives because of seeming acci-
dent. Had their precious lives no pattern? I cane back in my thinking. I
visited the Golden Moments girl in spirit. I thought of my domestic quandary
with Marion, the trails that had parted after Lillian, after fever. Then had
cone Lon, Beryl, Mary . .
Yfait a minute! LON! I retraced my thoughts. Hollywood!
"Everything was in a forward crescendo," I argued to myself, "till I put
aside everything for Hollywood, for movies."
Movies! Flickering shadows and seething highlights. Big money. Easy
money. Slipshod work. Gin and cocktail parties. Concupiscence. Had I 'gone
Hollywood'? . . was that it, I asked myself?
What was this business of 'going Hollywood'? What was its significance
in terns of Spirit? . ,
I was thinking of some of my profitable escapades in screen dramatics
when my vague vision cleared. It had to clear. Through the windshield before
me I beheld an obstruction. Unwittingly I had wheeled to the end of the street.
Across a broken ledge of asphalt that spilled behind down a rough embankment
were heavy red sawbucks. And what was the sign that now bespoke me like Jehovah1s
voice from Sinai? . .
BEYOND THIS POINT IMPASSABLE
GO BACK!
I slowed my car. I eased it over against the curbing. I jerked on my
brake and cut out the motor.
The day was sweetly silent.
Beyond this point impassable, go back! I stared at the sign like a dis-
carnate warning, giving me counsel in a moment of maelstrom. No workmen were
about. No persons were in sight. I had come out into an arena of lambent sun-
shine, empty, abandoned — the sort of hiatus that meant final reflection. It
sight have been Many's Tranquil Valley, an acre between the worlds. But . . be-
yond this point impassable, . . go back!
Back where? To what point?
In the seat's leathern corner I sloughed and breathed raggedly. Now
then, I must face it. Back to just WHERE?
A half-hour passed, an hour, verily two hours.
And I Ccast my accounting with my soul.
It came to me that the various adventures on which I had embarked
always got me to the point, or carried me to that angle of observation, where I
always and forever perceived larger possibilities within my own spirit. After
all, in the spiritual sense, was not this the mysterious thing that is commonly
known as Growth? . . discerning deeper and stronger possibilities within our-
selves, waking up our dormant capabilities, summoning ourselves to more indub-
itable performance, this must be the real actionism in any life that counts.
The action is not important, only that action be present. Always the gain is
spiritual. The spirit wants to KN0Y7 that such and such a thing is true about
itself in various aspects of performance. It sets about finding vehicles for
proofs. Again, when it has reached its conclusions, it tries other expedients
175
for getting self-recognition. Always and forever they are greater in size,
or in commandments to courage. Suddenly it cane to ne, "It isn’t the place
where the road LEADS that natters. Nor is it altogether how you travel it.
The thing that truly natters is, THAT TEE Wa Y GETS HARDER IN ITS TRAVELING AS
YOU MOVE ALONG! When the way gets hard in going, the grade steeper, the ob-
structions nore fomidable, the spirit oust put forth nore energy to travel at
all. In doing such, whether that energy he creative, conbat, application,
what-not, it discovers nore facts about itself, that it possesses depths of en-
durance, reservoirs of talent, that it never drenned it held. The Finding Out
is the one suprene thing. It is God in niniature, reliving his Forn-World.
All else is nere incident.
I felt better after that. I was truly getting sonewhere. And yet I
went back a bit.
when I had spent that year in the Corbett house in 3ennington, concen-
trating all ny energies on the one objective — to force editorial recognition
for myself — I had arrived where I had headed. But since that tine, no! I
had never owned to another definite objective. I had charted no real course of
Growth for myself, stronger and sturdier taxations of ny spirit. I had just
played around. I had fallen into such growth-adventures as had happened in my
way. Well, what WAS a worthwhile objective to have for a target after winning
all those bullseyes in ny writing? What chart of direct and conscious effort
could I provide nyself with, that would EVER mean bettings with ny own spirit
as to what I was still capabale of doing, of engineering, of achieving, in
spirit recognition?
I saw finally in all self-frankness that the answer was beyond ne.
Well, if I did not know, would it not be the better, saner course to
stop living a life of human scrambled eggs, reacting to accidental stimuli,
and withdraw into Quiet till the new road cane clear? Withdraw into Quiet . .
Svonde Garde’s green carpet!
'What was it that Minna. Helen had said, "Instead of driving all over the
place, wasting gasoline, why not put yourself up in a garage until you decide
what your destination is to be?"
I drew a long breath. I nade a decision that day in clean sunshine,
"All right," I directed nyself, "I will go back. I'll go back to quiet.
I'll find sanctuary and stay put in it. I’ll conserve ny energies, living in
waiting, till whatever gods there are, show ne conclusively where ny further
soul-growth lies.
Beyond this point inpassable, go back!
I started ny engine as the whistles were tooting noontime. I turned
and went back. Presently I discovered as I passed through Gardner Junction that
a strain peace possessed ne. I was confronting the hardest job in moral courage
that I had ever faced in ny life — announcing to Grant and Eddie that I meant
to pxill up stakes, to stop ny commercial and financial philandering, to take life
as a heritage till ny Holy-Grail quest was forever unnistakeable . .
At half-past six that sunset I drove into Shaw’s driveway. The car was
piled to the top of the runble-seat with bags, boxes, pictures, the little port-
able trunk that had acconpaniod ne on nany travels. On the front steps, tossing
,
a ball for Billie Shaw's pooch, was the golden-haired goddess in white uniforn,
over her shoulders the navy-blue cape.
"Well!" she exclaimed when she saw ny car's contents.
I said, "I've cone back."
"I thought you’d moved over to Hollywood with Eddie?"
"Eddie's got the firm. My share of it is whack."
"What happened?"
"I’ve quit Hollywood for good. I'm out of the fleshpots with nothing
176
tut ny clothes. After I've carted this truck upstairs, suppose you and I go
buggy-riding."
I cnptied the machine. Helen changed from her uniform. We hacked from
Shaw's driveway and drove up Marengo Avenue.
I told ny nurse friend everything.
"And a green carpet did it?" she echoed when I was finished.
"A green carpet decided me not to make a vagrant ass of myself one day,
one hour, one minute longer, I'm turning over a page in my life.”
"how has Eddie taken it?"
"Hard, hut I've given him the business. He can get a new partner.
After all, he'd been forced to havo done it if I'd gone along to a smash."
"And Grant?"
"He was splendid. I went to him first, before I went to Eddie. Do you
know what he said? 'Don't you suppose I've seen this thing coming? It was
only a question of time in my mind just when it would break.'"
"Have you cost him any money?"
"None that I won't pay. He knows that also."
"Where do you think you're driving now?"
"I want you to do something for me, if you will. I won't be put out if
you choose to refuse."
"What is it you want?"
"I'm going to buy a house. Or rather, you're going to buy a house."
"I'm .THAT? What for?"
"Under the California, real estate laws, no nan not divorced from his
wife can hold property without his wife owns half-equity. I can't have that
sort of thing happen in this case. I want to buy a house because I don't propose
to rent one. Renting would mean . . just another roost. I'm going to buy a
house, and stay put in it, till I see my funny life as something beside a bust.
I want to buy it in your name, and have you give me back a deed I won't record."
"What's the matter? Don't you trust me?"
"If anything should happen to you — with your relatives and all — I
night be in as much of a fix as I an in New York."
"What house are you going to buy?"
"We're looking for it. Now!"
We drove south on Colorado Street and turned eastward on Lake Avenue.
For the second tine that day I had snail idea of win re I was heading. We kept
driving and talking. We climbed the long hill that led to Altadena.
"What sort of a house are you looking for?" asked Helen.
"A bungalow that's simply sunk in isolation. Not too big a bungalow.
A place where I can live with a typewriter and a dog."
"You haven't got a dog."
"I can get a dog,"
Deautiful afterglow hung over the world. The backdrop of the Sierra
Madre mountains was tinted like a study by Maxfield Parrish. We got to the
sheer top of the Lake Avenue grade, four miles up against the canyon by Mount
Lowe. Afar in western distance was the opposite side of the Los Angeles valley
floor and the fairy gauze of lights I had looked upon last evening. What a day
it had been! . . the most important day in my life but one, and that one just
ahead . .
We had turned down Mount Curve Drive when my nurse friend exclaimed,
"There's a darling of a place! I wonder if it's for rent?"
I glanced toward the left. Up the slight embankment, on the last level
before the mountain began, stood a little Queen Anne bungalow with two sentinel
birches flanking its door. It had little casement windows and was covered by
codar shingles.
177
"It's For Sale," I announced. "I feel funny about it."
Accredit it or no, thus unerringly had we cone to it. It had been the
first, last, and only house which we had looked at. After inspecting it, furth-
er search was superfluous. I drove into the driveway and stopped by tho garage.
Helen will attest that I said as I shut off ny motor and glanced about the prem-
ises —
"This is ny property! I’ve driven in here so, . * stopped here so, . .
a hundred tines before. It's like Remembering Forward!"
That uncanny sensation that comes to one hundred percent of people, of
having been in a given situation before, of being almost able to declare what
the next step will be, possessed me to such surfeit that my flesh felt a creep.
Brief indeed this narration. Yet no erraticisn was exercising now.
This bungalow had been built — left here waiting — to contribute its bit to
the nation1s spiritual history . .
The pla,ce was open for inspection, or at least I got it open.
It was the now-famous bungalow of "My Seven Minutes in Eternity" ! . .
Helen followed me inside.
CHAPTER 'TWENTY-FIVE
— HE HOUSE downstairs consisted of a large atelier room with a ceiling-high
window opening eastward on the mountains, a dining-room alcove, a spotless
J white kitchen. Abovostairs was one sizable sleeping chamber, a den, a
bathroom. In all of tho upper rooms the roof came down quaintly, garret-fashion,
cutting off upper corners of walls.
The whole house was new.
Not a sound disturbed the ethereal quiet, up here on the mountain. Not
the sound of a street car, a railroad, a motor car. For twenty miles the ter-
rain sloped westward, meeting the Pacific far out beyond Long Beach. Vaguely
the Los Angeles City Hall campanile poked its silver-pencil shaft out of fax
valley haze. Beyond was tho glint of sunlight on ocean, Catalina Island, the
vistas where the sun goes when it is tired with much shining,
"I'm going to live here a long time," I announced.
Woman fashion, Helen was estimating what would be needed to go in the
rooms. The stars were coming out when we finally emerged and strolled about
the yard. A quaint little rockpilo held the jet of a fountain that gushed down
into a basin for goldfish. Then come a peanut-candy wall. And beyond was the
sagebrush that swept up the canyon.
It was isolation on a height, the world dropped below, the bumbling of
humankind left in a chasm,
Next day I sought its owner. The ease with which I acquired tho property
evidenced to me further that Kismet was arranging it. Forthwith I bought lumber.
My first maneuver was to cover the walls of the main room with shelves. Books
would go upon then. I would gather my books from a dozen vaults of storage. I
would gather together all the choice bits of furniture, of paintings, of tapes-
tries, of bronzes and narblcs, that I owned or night procure for the canvass I
would paint. For I meant to paint a canvass — verily ny art drawingroom softly
shaded at midnight — one stroke at a tine and all the tine in cosmos.
First I bought necessities to furnish the chamber. Forthwith I moved
from Shaw’s, that hone thenceforth a memory. I lived in the new bungalow alone,
day after day, putting up shelves, smoothing then, staining then. They held
space when completed for ten thousand books. Ten thousand books 1 One day in
Los Angeles I came upon a rug, a great Chinese rug, an inch of blue thickness.
I know it was MY rug the moment that I saw it.
178
Helen cane up and helped with the curtains. Over fawn scrim went
luxurious scarlet brocade overdrapes. Over the yawning spaces of empty book
cabinets I hung olive-green velour. The combination of deep scarlet drapes,
olive-green velour, the blue of the rug that was nearly a black, laid on the
color strokes in strong virile contrast. Yet these colors did not clash.
Then the furniture went in. One piece at a tine I bought, hunting, hunting
for just the right item. Lamps I bought, shaded lamps, that pointed up the
charm of the tones in my sanctuary. Books were brought up and found plnees
on ny shelves. As fast as each c<ase filled, I removed the velour. A paint-
ing of the flagship of Columbus went over the mantel. That indomitable Santa
Maria, meant something to me not unlike ny own life. The main room of the
house began to take on an atmosphere, a character, a quality. Matie Shaw came
up and gasped at the threshold, "Why, it's alnost like a church! . . a man's
roon, obviously, yet what perfectly najectic blendings of colors!" A hundred
little bibelots began to find spaces. The remainder of the house was by no
means neglected, but I meant to attain a
. cloistered effect in ny living-room
that should offer such a lodestone that ny restive spirit would never wish to
leave it.
Into this three months of endeavor ny new landlady entered with the zest
of her spinsterhood. I needed this and I needed that, items no man would bo-
think him to acquire. If a woman's touch wore needed to drape a table-cover
at just the right angle, it was my golden headed nurse who supplied it. Between
her intervals of nursing, sho visited my cloister and stocked up my larder. It
is a fraught situation when a woman helps a
. nan prepare himself a
. hone. I was
not unaware of it. The threads began to weave . . .
Little delicate strands between us at first, strands of no more strength
than the gauze of a spider's web. Then soft threads of silk. And the silken
threads thickened. Lovely pliant cords began to be the order. Then as the
months fled past, into autumn, the mad winds and rains of California winter,
those strands became strong as piano wires, swelling into cables.
And I blessed every ono of them.
At length I sat in my finished hone and WROTE. But an addition to my
menage came presently that by no means should be overlooked. One day while
making a deposit at the bank, a young teller said, "I hear you're living by
yourself up in Altadena? You ought to have a dog to sort of keep you company."
"I've thought about a
. dog."
"I've got a
. dog I'll sell you."
"What kind of dog?"
"A somewhat famous dog. Laska. Grand-daughter of Chinook, Peary's
lead-dog when he found the North Pole. I brought her and her brother across
from New Hampshire."
"Does she cost a lot of money?"
"You can have her for a
. hundred, . . I happen to need the cash."
I went down to the toller's hone in South Pasadena that evening. Tied
in the rear yard was a splendid brute, half German police dog, half Alaskan
huskie. She was bigger than a leopard — and a beautiful peach yellow.
"Hello, pooch!" I greeted her.
She affected to be bored. What kind of address was that to a
. thorough-
bred? Her eyes were like trout pools, great vacuums of wisdom. Her shell-
like oars were delicately rimmed with charcoal. Her tawny breast had the Viking
strength of a long lino of magnificent ancestors. Here was a Personage.
She went homo with me that evening.
Strangely enough, when my cloister was completed I felt no reaction of
the usual futility. My buffeted soul had suddenly found Alsatia.
I had cone into Peace.
1 7 9
Just outside the atelier window was a red cement pateo. I covered this
pateo with a roof of bright awning. I carpeted its flooring. A comfortable
box-swing, deep willow chairs, banks of fern and shrubbery, made this retreat
the delight of pleasant evenings. Out from the deftly shaded lamps of the big
room the subdued rays fell softly. Colors blended together like the hues of a
sunset filmed through darkened gauze. Many a tine the view of it, from outside
looking in, pained with sweet anguish. Helen would exclaim, "It’s so beautiful,
it hurts!"
And beautiful it was, even more beautiful than that library at Garde's.
I nay own larger, costlier houses, I will travel far to know the spirit of
sweet cloisterage amid which I dwelt in those pregnant twin years of 1927-1928.
Why do I linger on such details? Other people have furnished houses, true
enough. But all of it was prelude to the mightier adventure that was now draw-
ing close.
One evening in the autumn when I was deep in the writing of my serial,
31ue Lamp, for Collier's Weekly, Helen came from her transient labors in the
small white kitchen. She busied herself with some feminine caprice near the
radio in the corner, slightly in rich shadow. Laska was her incessant compan-
ion in those rare hours when our gracious landlady was privileged to be with
us. I had raised my eyes from the book I was reading. The outer windows and
doors were opened. In from the soft hush of evening came the pleasant sound
of splashing water falling from the rockpile into the basin in the dark. A
sense of tranquility, of utter well-being, came over me that constricted my
throat. I HAD EVERYTHING I WANTED!
Yes, I had everything I wanted, nothing was missing. But this was the
strange part, I hungered for no more. The Pa.ttern? why had it never occurred
to me that I did not have to worry about The Pattern? The Pattern made itself.
Life WAS the Pattern, in wha.tever phase we lived it.
Each evening as eleven o'clock drew near, my landlady completed her
ministrations and presented herself before me in the cape that meant so much.
The final chore of my day was driving her the five miles down to Shaw's. And
yet with what poignant wistfulness she tore herself away! That Cloister on
the Hill was coming to mean as much to her as it had come to mean to myself.
Where would it end? Where else could it end? . .
Then a
.
s prelude to the Supreme Adventure, there happened the episode of
The Three Little Boys . .
H
ELEN was busy in the kitchenette one sunset. I was mending a
. screen on a
.
window upste.irs. Suddenly the sounds of bitter sobbings reached me. I
paused and listened.
They were tight little sobs, sobs that meant pain. They could not be
made by Helen, she was working too far onthe other side of the house for me
to hear. Suddenly around the corner of the garage came three little boys.
One of them was hobbling, supported by the others.
"Mister," asked one of them, "could-we-use-your-telephone-but-we-ain't-
got-no-nickel?"
"What's the natter, son?"
"Tommy, now, he fell down the canyon. I gotta telephone his mother 'cos
I guess he can't walk home."
From my position above them I took note of Tommy. None of the trio was
over ten years old. Tommy's clothes weretorn. One leg could not be stepped
on. I got down through the house . . "There's a small boy hurt out here!" I
called to Helen sharply.
We got him on the pateo. He was a manly little boy, trying his best to
conquer his pain, not to sob too much. He made a bad job of it. I rolled down
180
his sock. What I saw, sickened me. His chubby left leg had been cruelly
gouged. He had lost a lot of blood, which had caked to his shoe.
"We went, now, for a hike up the canyon," the third boy offered. The
puckerstring of his blouse was down. His nose needed wiping. He was properly
terrified and had been crying some himself. "We dared each other to look over
the edge. Tommy, he dared. Then all of a suddint, the rock started rollin'.
It went down the canyon and Tonny went with it."
I picked up the cob and carried hin abovestairs. Helen flew for towels,
bandages, ointnents, We undressed Tonny in the bathroom, while his companions
sat by on the appointments customary to bathrooms, snuffling their noses, their
caps in their laps. Their mothers were forgotten, excepting they supposed that
when they reached hone ea.ch of then would "catch it" . .
"Did your mothers know you were going up the canyon?" Helen questioned.
"Noan," they confessed.
What nattered it who they were, or what mothers awaited then? They were
three little boys, hurt, awestruck, and distressed. They submitted to the expert
ministrations of my Golden Woman as to the Mother Eternal that all snail boys
recognize, no natter how much gray he.s cone into their hair. It was the nost
natural thing in the world that they had cono to this house where "a lady wuz
fixin' 'em." I think it was the incident of not knowing who they were, that
worked the nagic in myself.
I had to leave the bathroom while Helen cleansed that wound. I had known
men cut, slashed, shot, mutilated, thrust through with bayonets, in Siberia.
But they were men. Grown. Beholding that grisly hurt in a little boy's knee
was quite something else. A f.aintness cane over me that promised two patients
for Helen to serve. A child hurt. A little boy. It turned ne to tallow.
But Helen turned not to tallow. As I saw her intent upon her task, cool,
doft, tender, ninistering to human suffering, I knew in a flash of devastating
loveliness what Mary had meant that rainy night at Keene's, . . "I daresay that
nurse friend of yours is not concerned about the Why of her existence," Helen's
bands were so strong, so capable, so gentle. The little boy stopped sobbing.
He even stopped sniveling. He began to grow interested. Instead of more hurt,
his pain was being soothed. As she began to wind bandages deftly about the
cleansed wound, Helen asked, "Where do you throe live?"
"Down sonewheres on a street," one of them said largely.
"Don't you know the address?"
"Noan."
"I'll take them hone in the car," I declared, "doubtless wo can find it."
The wound was bandaged and expertly pinned. Helen decided, luckily
enough no bones had been broken. The other two boys had their faces washed,
their clothing brushed, their blouses neatly tied. I believe they likewise
achieved to doughnuts. Forthwith I picked up Tommy and bore him to the car.
There were four of us in the seat of the roadster but somehow we managed
it. Tommy's leg was the awkward part. It had to have SPACE, . . or so he im-
plied with the dressing completed and the wound convalescent* I think he was
proud of the aspects of that dressing. His screeching at his companions informed
me that ho was normal. Down Lake Avenue we coasted and into the district about
the famous deodars. "If you don't know the address," I advised the trio, "you
tell me where to steer."
"Yeah, we'll tell you aw right," I was positively assured.
Street after street I traversed in evening. "I think it's down THAT way,"
I would get a vague direction. 3ut always the street was not the one expected.
I had three homeless small boys on my hands, and probably three mothers were be-
coming slightly hysterical somewhere, wondering at the absence of their offspring
181
with evening. One boy, who seemed to know where EE lived all right, after
much driving and experimenting in streets, finally addressed Tommy -
-
"Key, this ain’t no way to treat nobuddy who’s fixed up your leg.
Doncha know where you LIVE?"
Tommy said meekly, "We only moved over here from Los Angeles Toosday,"
More driving. More likely looking streets that turned out to be wrong
ones.
"Lookitl" the third boy advised, as though I were not present. "We
can’t have this guy burnin' out his gas all over Pasadena just for the likes of
us!"
But we finally found the house — with a recognition-shriek from Tommy.
I drew up to the curbing and opened the door. With the precious leg carefully
coddled, Tommy was eased out to the sidewalk and between the shoulders of his
two small companions.
Then I faded from that neighborhood before his mother could know who had
cared for her son. I did not want her to know. After all, Helen had been the
Samaritan. They were three little boys, none of them unlike my own son of whom
life was cheating me, who had come to us for succor and in no wise been denied.
I write it unabashed, as I drove back up the hill I was sobbing inside of me.
Even though it had been Helen, I say, who had done the ministering, and all
that I had done was to hand out the doughnuts and take the lads back to their
unknown mothers, something hard and brittle had broken in my spirit . .
It was a surcharge of emotion that had scarcely come to me since that
far-off afternoon in Wilmington when I had gripped another woman’s hand and
heard a country pastor begin, . . "I an theresurrection and the life! . . "
It was not the size of the thing that had happened. It was not my part
in it, for that had been trivial. It was being a part of Aid, when aid was
needed terribly. Ever since that day in faraway Siberia when that young Russian
mother had clung to the freight-car and been da.shed against the culvert, the
saddest and most moving words in ny mother-tongue had been, "Kelp me!" I under-
stood in that poignant half-hour with those three little boys, Helen’sremark
about getting somewhere in a hurry with the ambulance. Thrill indeed! . ,
No, there is no sentimentality in the incident that I had. helped minister
to three little boys whom life had treated harshly to teach them a lesson in
physical caution. I had been given a
. frail demonstration of what truly was
meant by ministering to others.
Those terribly poignant words, "Help me!" The whole race is crying it.
There are others who express it by their haplessness, mutely, like those three
bruised youngsters.
I got back to Helen who had tidied the bathroom and gone on with her
work.
She asked, "Did you get them home safely?"
I said, "Yes, I got them home."
"Who were they, anyhow? Did you find out their names?"
"I didn’t stop to ask. I never want to know. I just want to remember
then as Three Little Boys,"
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX
A ND so, at last, the Door! . .
<
— \ From midsummer of 1927 until May of 1928 I lived with Laska. in that
J J bungalow. In fact, I lived in that bungalow until March of 1929, but
it was the night of the twenty-ninth of May, 1928, that the Panels of Under-,
standing rolled back and I looked from the murk of all that I had ever been
182
into a vista. whose radiance, please God, I an still exploring wondrously,
I was thirty-eight years and two months old.
The winter had been profitable. True, as the cards in the hands of Mrs.
Walthall had foretold, I had received a latter from Frank Riley one day in the
autumn informing me that he and Craven were forfeiting the thousand-do 11an
option they had bought on Drag. Craven had suddenly been tendered a contract
to produce six plays in a row for Erlanger, therefore would go ahead with no
productions for himself. It must have caused him some frightful pangs, the
Scotsman! Even worse than my disappointment.
As a matter of fact, that disappointment was not keen. Subconsciously I
had accepted that the reading of those cards had been subtle clairvoyance. Nor
did I especially care. I had plenty of money. I had written a ten-thousand
dollar serial for Collier's and nearly fifteen thousand dollar's worth of stor-
ies for other magazines. I applied myself to a new novel The Chuckleheads,
which up to this date in 1936 I have not yet published.
So my days were days of quiet, and my nights were nights of calm.
Neither Grant nor Eddie had particularly suffered from the drastic de-
cision I had made that morning off there in the sunshine of Beverly Hills.
I repaid Grant all sums that I had. ever owed him. And to demonstrate what hap-
pens when a man makes a
. truly constructive decision, no matter who it hits or
how it hurts — so long as it is constructive — almost the same week that I
relinquished to Eddie a.ll my rights or interests in the Pelley & Eckels enter-
prises, a man named Crawford come along and put $7,000 behind Hi-Hat Magazine.
Eddie and Crawford changed the name to The West Coaster and it ran for over a
year as The New Yorker of California. Eddie, I understand, is still at his
work of promoting, today. He has a partner named Ford and a pretentious organ-
ization in a substantical corner building on Sunset Boulevard.
A year of the Qpiet, I say. And a year is a long long time — as one
watches the days open cand close, summer turn into autumn, autumn sear into
winter, winter green into spring. So completely had my life altered that it
seemed a whole decade in the past, instead of a mere twelve months, that Grant
had given the Christmas party and Helen had spilled the tobacco on the rug.
Occasionally during this time I had driven to Hollywood with Helen in
the evenings, to look in on Grant. 3ut in the main I was finished with Holly-
wood. Few are the friendships that maintain in screenland. Jews do not know
the meaning of friendships, and Hollywood is Jewish down to the core. One of
my last visits paid to a movie studio, curiously enough, turned a joke on those
Jews in regard to Chaney which only a Gentile could appreciate . .
Grant said to me as I lunched with him one noontime, "Believe it or not,
I know every actor and actress in Hollywood excepting Lon Chaney."
The statement left me thunderstruck. And yet when I stopped to check
over in my memory, never in my association with these two, had thty ever been
in company. I asked, "And do you JANT to know him?"
"Do you think you con fix it?"
"What is there to fix. Cone out to Culver City with me this afternoon.
I've got a tiff to settle with that acrobat on my own hook."
We drove to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's studio and used our passes to get in
on the 'lot'. I knew the location of Chaney's dressing-room of old and saw him
through the window as I knocked upon the door.
"Whoosit?" he bawled.
"Me! . . Bill Pelley! . . let me in, you clown!"
He arose and unlocked the door. And I gasped in concern. One of his
eyes was filmed with white cataract. Down from his nose, across his chin, and
into his neck, ran a ghastly scar — it might have been slashed that morning.
His hair was clipped close to his head, like a convict's. His torso was bare
183
excepting a blowsy goatskin vest. "Good Lord, what's the matter with you?"
I cried in alarm.
"Happened? . . oh this! . . Make-up for The Road to Mandelay, that's all.
Where you "been these la.st few months?"
I introduced Grant. Grant said, "3ill's walked out on us. We're not
good enough for him any longer. We're chucked."
Chaney at his make-up table, paused in his wiping of an eyebrow, fore-
finger pointed into a corner of towel. "Wha.tta you moan, chucked?"
I said, "I've quit Hollywood."
"Since when?"
"Since August of last year."
"Whore you been keeping yourself?"
"I bought a bungalow over in Altadena. I've been staying in it, writing."
Chaney grinned broadly. He reached his hand across and squeezed my leg
above the knee. "Smart fella," was his comment.
He was the old Chaney whom I had known the past six years,
I saw him only once again rafter that. It was on a rainy forenoon while
he was playing the role of an Armless Wonder in "The Unknown". He had both
arms tightly buckled against his sides, so tightly that the bulges scarcely
showed at the shoulders. An inhuman corset did it. A real armless man, a
vaudeville performer, did the stunts required by the story. Le„ter the film-
cutting made it appear that Chaney did them. That corset killed Chaney, or so
I was told. . It broke a blood-vessel in one of his arms. A bloodclot started
through his system, to stop months later in his throat. He died in a New York
hospital undergoing an operation for its removal.
But the afternoon that I introduced Grant to him, the three of us left
the dressing-room together and started toward the "set" . . Irving Thalbery,
Metro-Goldwyn's infantile manager, lookod from the window of his office and
perceived Chaney, Dolge, and Pelley in what seemed to be a significant huddle.
Grant was everywhere acknowledged as a manager for players. Lon told me later
that no sooner had Grant and I left the lot that the smart but not clever young
Jew promptly summoned Chaney to his office. Under Lon's nose he shoved a new
contract. A five-year contract at $5,000 per week. $1,300,000 . . !
"Sign it," cajoled Tha.lberg, proffering a pen.
Lon signed it. "Now what's it all about?" he grinned.
"Dolge and Pelley were trying to get you to quit us, weren't they? Well,
with your box-office drawing power, I'm beating 'em to it."
Chaney kept his mouth shut.
Jews are like that, . . so smart that it costs them money,
|T WAS between the summer of 1927 and the summer of 1928. Again I had come to
' the top of a cycle. Nine years before, I had looked off across Japan from the
summit of Asama volcano. When I had started down that grade, as previously re-
corded, I had started down into more than a valley. I had crossed a morass and
cone up again to table-lands. I was on a height literally, I was on a height
spiritually, I was on a height financially. More than all else, there was peace
in my soul.
If what now happened had occurred a 2
'ear before, when I was torn, driven,
heckled, by my predicament with Eddie, when I was lonely, poorly fed, going the
Hollywood pace — if the thing that now happened had occurred while I was in
that condition of body, mind, and spirit, I say — I night easily have accounted
for it as part of the mental turmoil of my life. But nothing of the sort was
true, Mark this well!
Physically I was rested as I had not been rested before in my life. Never
had there been a full year during which J remained quiet as I had remained quiet
in my cloister on the hill. The only manual labor that I did was spading my
184
flowers or clearing sagebrush from my land, strolling with Laska through the
canyons. I was restoring ny body and recharging my nerves, eating regularly
and well, browsing in sensible comfort among my books and hone appointments,
finding such recreation as I cared for, picking up Helen and going to the thea-
ter occasionally in Pasadena or Los Angelos. The investments that I had made,
putting most of my surplus cash into Pasa,dena real estate, soon became such
that I was employing a nan to look after then. This led to the opening of a
suite of offices in the Central Building in Pasadena. Into the appointments
of this suite I put the same artistic study that I had employed in the furnish-
ing of my Altadena bungalow. I located ny real estate manager, A1 Burke, there,
and my secretary, Helen Jamison. Soon I had organized The Pelley Corporation
as a firm to handle ny real estate holdings, on account of the homestead stip-
ulations of previous mention. I let Burke talk me into financing a string of
restaurants, a company that became known as The Briefneal Corporation. But for
the first time now, I did not embark on any of these projects in order to make
money, or show how smart I was, or supply me with distractions from the ganglion
in my spirit. I had no more ganglion in my spirit. My ganglion was gone.
My writing did not appear so futile to me now. I was not penning stor-
ies of robot men and women duing melodramatic things for financial gainings of
ny own. I was beginning to get hold of the first frail fringes of the garment
of a philosophy.
Lillian’s Big Drums? . . they were booming so close to me that I no
longer heard them for the depth of their resonance’
. . .
This, I declare, was my saga and my achievement, my conflict and my snug
aarbor, when The Door opened for me on transcendent exposition. I can attest
now from a riper experience in all such matters, that The Door never could have
opened, there could have been no exposition, while I was held in the turmoil of
uncircunscribed bedazzlement, or while I was battling in the vortex of my mael-
strom. Divine Illumination is like Lillian’s comment on Attainment. How well
her words fitted —
"It’s the irony of life . . the thing we create commands our affection
in exactly the ratio of the effort we put into it. Then when it's time to real-
ize on that effort, the essence of true character is to see that we forego it.
Of course this seems cruel to persons not sufficiently evolved to discern its
real increment . . It’s encompassing the Kingdom of Heaven within ourselves
consciously, knowing that we are its living horizons. Ti»hen we can relinquish
the thing we most cherish, without a qualm of loss or regret, it’s time for us
to have it. And at such tines we won't want it because we shall not need it."
How frightfully vital that piece of wisdom was to become to me in a nat-
ter of weeks, days, hours! . .
And so I cone to write it, . . 1 arrived at my Big Night, the night I
have so mystically referred to, in many queer twistings a.nd turnings in this
narrative. I an yet a long way from the end of that narrative, perhaps years
from its end. There nay be greater and grander nights in my life. Certainly
I have a world of detail and achievement to paint in, beside which much that
has gone before is boy’s play by comparison. Another great nine-year cycle was
ready to open before me, in which I was to go Dbwn the Hill after the manner
that I have described on three occasions, n.nd cone up again to a still higher
summit than ever before — finding myself the next tine nominee of a great
national Christian Party for President of the United States, having set a whole
nation by the ears from the nature of my constructive deployings. Thus far ny
climaxes have been minor and personal. Now the pinnacles of these higher and
dizzier nine-yea.r cycles were to broaden so that the lives of hundreds, thous-
ands, millions of nen and women were to be affected — whom I will probably never
know and not meet personally. One of them I have already lived since that Night
of Revelation in the cloister on the hill — and a still greater Revelation on
185
the M«jave Desert — to which ny narrative is coning. I "believe that if I do
that which I have been given to d#, that I have exactly three more of these
cycles ahead of ne, that ny death is coning in a foreign land in or about the
year 1962. I believe as I write these lines in early 1936 that I have but
twenty-seven nore years of life renaining to ne to conplete ny labors. But none
of it could have happened had I not noved through The Door.
The Door of Revelation!
I cane by the stages that I have set down — perhaps speciously to sone —
and by the detail that I have painted, to the evening of the twenty-ninth of
May, 1928 . .
ITHOUGHT that this year of isolation had changed ne over. Perhaps in conpari-
I son with ny escapades in Fulton, Springfield, Wilmington, Bennington, St.
Jthnsbury, New Y»rk, and Hollywood, it had. But how could I know as that sing-
ing day dawned, went on into silver forenoon, reached golden afternoon, and
crept toward purple evening, that I was living the Day of Days in ny life up till
then, a day that night alter the thinking of a continent? . .
I recall that I had begun work on that unusual nanuscript, Nations-in-Law,
which has but recently been published, and that I had written the opening chap-
ters. It was to be a heavyweight analysis of philosophical politics, with nater-
ial gathered from a thousand sources, personal and acadenic. I had finished the
first three chapters, for it was slow and brain-taxing w#rk. Helen had not been
up to the bungalow for days: she was attending on a case of prolonged illness
and was minding her patient the clock ar®und. I was feeling in tip-top health.
I had n#t taken an alcoholic drink in over a year. I always puffed a briar pipe
at my work and had done so ever since ny cub reporter days back in the office of
The Springfield Homestead. But ny consumption of tobacco was not abnormal. As
it is with my friends today, so was it then, that they aver I do not smoke to-
bacco. Being usually short of tnen, what I smoke is matches. I vigorously dis-
pute that there was anything of peculiarity in ny health, ny mental condition,
or my habits, to give ground to the frailest rationalization that what now en-
sued was reaction from brain devitalization or nerve depression. If this were
so, I would have been the first to observe and admit it — and keep the essence
of the adventure to myself.
I had worked in the garden the first part of the evening, taken a stroll
up the Drive with Laska, cone back and done a few more pages on ny book. Around
half-past ten o'clock of a perfect California night in May, I arrived at a place
in ny writing where a peculiar query occurred to me . .1 laid down my fountain-
pen, stretched my cramped fingers, picked up and refilled ny pipe.
"What are races?" I asked myself curiously. This single phenomenon of
human life — why one man's skin was white, another's yellow, another's black .
—
struck ne with baffling wonderment. Why had not the Almighty created all races
of peoples alike. Eow could I go ahead with the sort *f analysis I had planned
until I had a cue that unsnarled that puzzle? It was in this frame of mindthat
I finally went to bed.
Locking all lower doors and windows as usual, I put out the downstairs
lights. Laska followed me upstairs. A natural camaraderie had grown up between
myself and that dog. Ever since her arrival in my domicile she had slept dir-
ectly under ny bed. I rarely stirred, certainly never got up in the night, that
she failed to come awake and crawl out in an instant. Yet Laska was not the sort
of cur that is forever barking at the moon. I undressed and got into bed ..
I remember that it was a book *n medeival history that I was reading—
still keeping up ny practice of twenty years, reading myself to sleep. The wealth
of acadenic knowledge that I had thus stored away was to serve me in good stead
in the Nine Years to follow. I read until ny eyelids weighted, Then I pulled
186
at the chain on my bed-lamp. I fell asleep at once.
As I have often written in smaller monographs on this episode, I d* not
recall having any special dreams during the first half of the night, no physi-
cal distress, certainly no insomnia.
But "between two and three o rclock in the morning — the time later veri-
fied by the clock on my bed-table — a ghastly Inner Shriek seemed to tear
through my consciousness. In despairing horror I wailed to myself —
"I'm dying! I'm dying!
I had cone to it at last, . . THE FRAU&KT DOOR WAS OPENING-1 . .
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
P'SVEN Minutes in Eternity! . . a "seven minutes" that was really two hours!
What told me I was dying, I cannot say.
Some uncanny instinct had been unleashed in slumber to awaken me and shout
it. Certainly something seemed to be happening to me — something that had not
happened to me down all my past days.
This was no dream. I knew I was awake, and yet I was not. I knew that
some extraordinary condition had affected my head or my heart, or both, in
sleep — that my consciousness was responding to the play of forces over which
I had no control. I was practically awake, I say, and whereas I had been lying
on a bed in the dark of a bungalow bedchamber one minute, the next I felt as
though I were being whirled in a cataclysmic plunge into a mystical depth rf cool
blue space, not unlike the sinking sensation that attends on the taking of surgi-
cal anesthetic. Over and over in a curiously tumbling brain the thought was
predominant, "So this is Death!"
I affirm that in the interval before my subconscious shriek and the end
of my "plunge" I was sufficiently possessed of mortal sense to think, "My body
nay lie in this house for days, unless Laska brings aid. Foor Helen! . . she
na.y have to suffer the shock of finding it!" Then I gave conscious attention
to the program transpiring. Whereupon this thing happened: I felt myself "land"
in the embrace of strong arms that embraced me physically. No especial shock
attented upon this incident. I had stopped my levitation. Someone had hold of
me. The next instant I heard a calm, friendly voice say distinctly in my ear —
"Take it easy, old man. Don't be alarmed. You're quite all right.
We've got you and are here to help you!"
I shrank in those moments from opening my eyes. What would they behold?
I felt that I was being carried by two persons, one with an arm beneath my shoul-
ders, the other with clasped hands looping my knees. I felt weirdly flaccid
from my epochal transition . . then it seemed as though I could not open my eyes
at once because of the radiance of queer opal light that diffused in the strange
area into which I had come.
When I finally essayed it, I perceived that I had been borne to a white
marble pa.Het and laid nude upon it by two strong-bodied, kindly-faced young
men in white uniforms not unlike those worn by internes in hospitals. They
were secretly amused at my obvious consternation.
Who was the taller and stockier of the two? I felt as though I had met
him somewhere. Then it gradually came to me, . . wasn't I confronting Dert
Boyden? . . in the flesh? You remember the editor man who had been John Sid-
dall's assistant when I first came down to see John from Bennington? . . him!
Boyden! Bert Boyden! In the flesh, it seemed. I could not be dreaming.
He had touched me, carried me, set me down on something. And yet Bert Boyden
was reported to have "died" before John Siddall died — I think while I had been
in Siberia. I gasped out his name. My first exclamation was, "How did you get
here?"
187
He only sailed, the "broader at that — as though he knew a goodly joke.
"Feeling "better?" he parried. He stood about six feet away fron ne, surveying
ny nude and seated figure, head cocked on one side. He seened to "be wiping his
hands on a kerchief or a towel.
The other nan was nearly Bert's build, with high smooth forehead, in-
clined toward baldness, with good-natured blue eyes and a
. sonewhat pointed nose.
Somehow I sensed a vague affinity or association with Mary about hin. Not ex-
actly her husband. I had never known her husband. But did she not have a
brother-in-law who had been a soldier? . . and not come hone fron aanp in 1917?
"Where an I?" I faltered.
Again those humorous glances. "Don't try to find out everything in the
first seven minutes," was the adjuration fron the person I took to be Boyden.
It was this initial exclamation, embodying so much, that I took for the title
of the monograph that I later wrote for The American Magazine. Why seven? I
haven't the faintest idea in the world. Anyhow, that title was unfortunate.
Too many people concluded that ny experience lasted only seven minutes, and edi-
torial deletions cut out the explanation.
■
f
'HEY did not need to answer ny question. I knew what had happened, or felt
J that I knew. I considered that I had left ny nortal body lying on a bed
in that Altadena "bungalow. I had gone through all the sensations of demise, and
whether or not this was the After-Life, or some intermediate station, most en-
phatically I had entered into a place which I had never seen duplicated in all
of ny experience. I say this because of the inexpressible ecstacy that I im-
mediately felt in my new condition, both physical and mental.
For I had carried some sort of a physical body into that novel environ-
ment with ne. That body was nude. But it was real. It had been capable of
feeling the cool, steady pressure of Boyden1s hands beneath the shoulders be-
fore my eyes were opened. Moreover, it must have had weight of a sort because
it had taken two men to bear ne to the pallet. I could hold up ny hand before
ny eyes and examine it. I did hold up ny hand before ny eyes and examine it.
To all intents and purposes — and to the quality of consciousness in which I
was then operating — it was a flesh and blood hand.
This was an equally weird realization: although ny body was nude, I felt
strangely sexless. I had none of the inhibitions in this remarkable condition
that attends on the nightmare of discovering one's self disrobed in a public
place — and which psychologists declare is motivated by some parts of the body
beconing uncovered during slumber. And now that I had awakened without the
slightest distress or injury, I was conscious of a beauty and tranquility that
surpasses setting down on paper . .
I found myself glancing about a marble-tiled portico, lighted by soft
illumination of purest whiteness emanating from \?alls or materials without the
slightest dazzlement. Marble, however, is not quite correct. Alabaster would
be better. It had a chalky resiliency that also impressed no as holding rugged-
ness and strength — strong enough, at least, for three walls and columns to
uphold the roof.
I was seated on a chaste Grecian bench of the same material, placed in
the center of the unbroken western wall. My back was toward this wall. I es-
timated the portico to be thirty feet square. Along the northside at ny
left, was a row of low Corinthian pilaster columns with the parallel wall and
corridor running eastward beyond them. On ny right, opening toward what I
thought the south, were two more sets of columns with wide opening between —
and steps that went down upon a space of darkened greensward. Down and away
into misty blue shadow sloped an area that I night well describe as a Garden of
Dreams — only again I affirm, this was no dream. I saw the faint outlines of
188
magnificent spruces. Still further beyond, then, trillions of niles beyond,
were twinkling stars in a sky of deep ey&nite.
A narble basin opened in the southeast corner of the portico. A half-
dozen steps led down inta a pool of water so innaculately pure that I scarcely
realized it held water at all until Bert — if Bert it was — suggested that I
step down into it, if I still felt perturbed. I did as he suggested, though
not at once ..
I looked fron the garden vista with its backdrop of perfectly star-
strewn sky to these friends who had received ne. There were no other persons
present during the first half of this experience. I sat up of ny own effort
and swung ny bare feet to the cool narble tiling, both hands gripping the edge
of the bench.
What had happened to Boyden? He was bigger now, nore virile, nore kindly,
than I had ever known hin back there in Sid’s office. The bodies of both hin-
self and conpanion had a physical "glow" that vaguely disconcerted ne. Sonething
about then spelled self-confidence sublinated — sublinated physical and mental
expression. Apparently, I repeat, they knew a good joke about ne; they contin-
ued to regard ne with sniles in their eyes. And so I found ny voice, For I
had a voice. Beginning with the beautiful spread of flawless wall behind Bert's
figure, ny gaze traveled around the space to the exquisitely fluted colunns, to
the vista of night sky, to the bench on which I sat.
"It's . . realI" was all that I could call up at the nonent.
"Of course," ny friend assented pleasantly.
I continued to stare. The second nan, the soneone I was vaguely trying
to "place" as having an association with Mary, shrugged his big shoulders and
for the nonent at least went off about his business. Again ny gaze sought Boy-
den. How could I ask hin how cone that he was "dead" when I had the evidence of
ny senses that he was alive . . tremendously alive . . looking infinitely better
than I had ever seen hin? And what about nyself? Was I too "dead" as well?
I got up from ny bench, somewhat unsteadily at first, and began to move about the
portico. I felt surprised that I could walk. I stood on the steps that led down
into the pool.
"Go ahead," urged Boyden. "See what it does to you." He was still stand-
ing where I had first noted hin, wiping his hands on that bit of fabric as a
surgeon night do after sone sort of operation. He talked as naturally and famil-
iarly to ne as I had ever known hin to speak in life.
I believe that I went down those steps into the water. When I cane up
I had lost all consciousness that I was nude. On the other hand, neither was I
conscious that I had donned clothes. Immersion in that "water" had done sone-
thing to ne. What, I don't know.
It did not occur to ne to feel the slightest awe or wonder that I had
left ny bungalow premises and penetrated so preposterously into such a lovely
place. It all seened as natural as it now seems natural for ne to be sitting
here in ny well-known physical body, putting these words upon the keys of ny
typewriter. I repeat, it was all as absurd to try to discuss the fact with
Boyden that either of us night be "dead" as it would be for ne to go about mor-
tal life in the present, discussing with people any strangeness in the fact that
we are all "alive". Today I know there is only one consciousness. It is the
continuity of it that so frequently troubles and confuses us. We feel as com-
fortably at hone in one phase of it as another. It is the consciousness of self-
identity that natters, not the type of the vehicle by which we got expression.
And so now, for the first tine anywhere, I can write with reasonable
accuracy and detail of the snatches of conversation which followed on that Night
of Nights . , at least as I ronenber then after a lapse of seven years. Never
before have I been able to do it in just this way, because I would have had no
189
chance to place first "before ny reader the minutiae of detail contained in my
life, furnishing the substance for the ensuing conversations. They started
nost humanly. I said, "For the lova-nike, Bert, what’s this all about?"
He continued to smile. "Don’t you know? Can't you guess?"
"An I . . sort of . . all washed up with . . earthly life?" Verily it
seemed so, with all that radiance about me, the beauty of the colors, the
clearness of perception with which I saw ny friend.
"No," he said whimsically, "you're not . . washed up. Call it that you're
having a little trip for some significant experience."
"It's an experience all right! But that doesn't answer ny question, Bert.
"Tell me," he suggested, "why do you call me Bert?"
"Aren't you . . Bert 3;oyden? You 1-look like Bert Boyden, I can't be
mistaken."
"Oh," he laughed, "that's it? You recognize me as someone you know,
and yet . . you don't. All right. I understand."
For a moment I felt chagrined. I asked, "Where is this place? . . if
I'm not committing more blunders by asking."
"I'm afraid I can't explain it so that you'd understand it. Not now.
As near as I can make it clear to you, it's . . interpenetrating the world to
which you're accustomed. Does that seen to make sense?"
"Interpenetrating how?"
"Scientists like to believe that two solids can't occupy the sane space
at the same time. How little they know."
Sometime later I exclaimed — for it began to cone to me all at once —
"It's hard to explain, b-but . . I don't really feel like the fellow I've always
been, . . I feel like somebody else . . I feel like a whole lot of people! . .
Does that make sense to you?"
"The height of sanity, ny dear fellow, quite!"
"Tell me, how is it, in this pla.ce or . . condition . . I feel like a
whole bundle of personalities, all at once? I don't know that I like it."
"Because, ny dear chap, you are a whole bundle of personalities . .
everybody is! . . all rolled into one."
"I don't quite get it."
"Don't try to get it. Suppose you just accept it. If people would only
get over trying to understand everything! . . if they'd only accept things and
grasp the fact that perhaps the accepting is the understanding!" Quizzically
he went on, "Does any memory bestir in you about being here before?"
"Have I been here before?"
"Let it pass," he said carelessly.
I mused, striving to grasp the ocstacy of it, "I've got a body and I
haven't got a body. Or rather, I've got two bodies, . . great guns, I've got
a whole crowd of bodies and they're all ME! I can't feel the end of then,"
"Maybe," he responded, "there isn't any end."
It all seemed rather involved at the moment. I might best explain it
that I might have lived a hundred lives and that each life as I lived it was
merely added to the sum-total of myself, and that every tine I lived a new life
and cane to the end of it, the sun-total of it was added to the supreme person-
age that was Myself. I was, in truth, a whole crowd of people, a multiple
personality, so to speak, yet capable of thinking and acting as the one person-
ality in the sum-total of ny individual experiencings. Bonething like that.
Now there was a flavor of distinguishnent of each, as though the str.ands that
held these various personalities in the bundle of the Personage were not tight
as in mortality, but relaxed and somewhat loosed. And yet this friend of nine
who looked like Bert Boyden sublimated — end whom I was not at all sure was
Bert Boyden now — seemed so kind, so reassuring, so wise with a wisdom that
190
was ell a gentle joke, that I was moved, to ask: 1
1 — this feeling of nine, of
being a whole bundle of people, is it a sensation that's usual in this . . state?"
What a perfectly silly word, I thought!
"Put it that the frail beginnings of your Memory may be working. In time
you might get yourself successfully sorted out. What difference would it make?"
Sorted out indeed? It occurred to me to ask if that wasn't what I'd been
trying to do ever since the days in the North Frescott parsonage? Wasn't it
true that I, in common with all persons, felt on some days that I were *ne in-
dividual, and on other days quite another. We commonly call these, "moods".
After all, what were moods?
We had seated ourselves side by side on the bench.
"Predominant personalities," I recall my friend explaining, "may not be
so un-literal as men in their ignorance try to make out. Isn't it reasonable
that a whole life that's been lived could remain in a man's character more «r
less distinct unto itself, that what they term the facets in any given person's
nature may really be the expression of a given past-life's personality as it
finally accumulated and crystalised? After all, what's character anyhow, but
the common mien of all of them obtaining expression?"
I said blankly, "You mean this fellow Felley has lived before?"
"No," he said sagely, "Pelley has never lived before. Put it that some-
one or something has been living as Pelley."
"What someone? Who?"
"The real You, formless and nameless, and in a manner of speaking, death-
less, . . known jt* yourself a
_
s Yourself."
"And it adds a new facet of character to itself, every time it has an
earth-experience?" 'Was this the reason that I had felt the strange sensation
back there at five years old, on the knoll in summer morning behind the house
in East Templeton? Was this the reason that I had been a.ble to climb into the
altar-chair in my father's church and preach an intelligible sermon to a stretch
of empty pews? These things we called our Instincts, and which Science main-
tained were somehow inherited through our parents, mightn't they not be but mem-
ories of our nameless and deathless selves? Later I was to find precisely that
exposition in both Plato and Socrates.
"It adds," corrected my friend, "a newly developed personage to the char-
acter, but these seem like facets when the sun-total of all of them is manifest-
ing in the latest mortal span."
I was thunderstruck. Here was an absolutely new idea, at least to me, , .
something that I had never hit upon, or considered, down all my days. Yet when
I stopped to give it thought, how much it explained in the curiosa of my own per-
sonality that had always baffled and defeated me!
ARE YOU sufficiently imaginative, friend reader, ever to have conjectured what
f ’ your sensations and conversations could be, or might be, in your first ten
minutes — or ten hours — of arrival in that state of spiritual gradation that
ignorant men term life-after-death?
Of course this wasn't Death. I had not really died. In the bedroom of
my Altadena bungalow the same physical body that is now responsible for typing
these lines was lying inert, probably seeming to any second person who night have
viewed it e
„
s nothing more than asleep. All the physical functions were perform-
ing, doubtless the heart was beating faintly, there was a phase of respiration.
On the other hand, it is the sanest part of truth that something had gone out of
it! The sentient ME within it was no longer present. I was consciously involved
in #ne of the most baffling, and intriguing, mysteries in all Esoterics. Nine
out of ten men will say that the Consciousness cannot quit the physical self
without death resulting. They reason thus because they have never beheld a dead
191
tody to contain the slightest tra.ce of consciousness. But just "because eu over-
coat may not he able to move about a three-dimensional world without a man in-
side of it — "wearing it" as we say — does not prove the non-existence of such
persons just because we behold an overcoat without a wearer,
I know now that I was keeping my body alive by a peculiar process that is
of the most constant practice among the masters and mahatmas of the East — oper-
ating it from outside it and from a certain "distance" instead of being confined
inside of it. Don't say dogmatically, reader, that the notion is absurd* Even
a quarter-century ago you might have called it equally as absurd if the claim was
made that the President of the United States could address an evening session of
Congress and his literal voice be heard ip every home in the nation without any
arrangement of wires between. People who have truly taken the tine and trouble
to go deep, deep, into these natters, and conduct the nost profound experiments,
have proven that the soul has the ability to do the nost astounding things alto-
gether independent of the physical body. All the old Magi — the Wise Men who
journeyed to the Manger in the Stable of Bethlehem — the ancient adepts, the
followers of the various Elusinian and Pythagoran "mysteries", knew of then cen-
turies upon centuries in the past. I repeat, without especially intending to de-
fend ny position, that Socra/tes and Plato were not only acquainted vdth then but
made then the very cornerstones of their socalled "wisdom". The Indian pundits
and nahatnas of today do provable things "for which science has no explanation",
but that is not saying that such things are not actual and are not known t t h o u -
sands. Is it not reasonable to conclude that I had commanded such phenomena in
my own person because the tine had ripened for me to enter a wholly new arena of
spiritual maneuvering, to "Break Through" — as Mary had tried ta convey to me
that night at Keene's — to "live the other half of me" of which I had known no
more than the average orthodox person who perchance nay cone upon such stagger-
ing facts for the first tine in these, the pages of my story? But enough of
that for now. I was "away" insofar as my sentient body was concerned, and yet
mystically connected with it, controlling it, able at any moment — as I pres-
ently discovered — to return to it and normally occupy it. As ny Friend of
the Reality said, we may understand many things by accepting and performing then.
Again that Friend was talking . .
"You're writing a book on the peculiarities of Races . . yes, I know all
about it, . . you'd be astounded if you could know the numbers of folk who've
been keeping track of everything you've ever said and done'. . . you came to a
point this evening where you wondered what Races were, . . I'll tell you what
they are, . . they're mortal classifications of humanity largely determining
standardized gradations of spiritual a.tta.inments . . the concensus in each case,
we might put it, of Cosmic development . . starting with the black man — the
negroid — and proceeding upward cycle after cycle to the brown man, the yellow
man, the rod man, the white man. Put it that each race is a sort of educational
institution with many grades and cla.ssrooms within itself, which individual souls
enter or are enrolled in, and attend through a whole college-course of their
lives. Each holds something greater and more profitable in the way of spiritual
expression or opportunities for service either to themselves or mankind as a mass
. . their attainments in each of the major classifications being distinguished or
exhibited by the colors of their skins."
Strange that I had no sense of the passing of Time while talking with
this friend. I might have been there only seven minutes, I might have been
there seventy years. As a matter of fact, I found out later that the chronol-
ogy of event was approximately the same as it would have been had I been occupy-
ing ny physical body. It was all a consciousness, anyhow, not spatial kaleido-
scopia. "You n-mean," I faltered, "that all men and women have visited at some
tine or other in the various races?"
192
"Put it," he said kindly, "that certain 'facets of their characters' nay
have done so, to keep our hypothesis logical. And mightn't such experience he
the profoundest part of sense? Eow else could nen and women in the more moribund
forms of expression know the practical increments which each racial culture
night provide them?"
The moribund forms of expression! I knew what he meant. People in the
physical. And some earthly folks were so positive that they were the only ones
alive! How often had my father preached in the North Prescott and Templeton
pulpits "the dead know not anything!" . . the dead indeed! . . but hold! . ,
hadn't he been right without exactly meaning it? Of course they knew not any-
thing because there were no dead!
Christ had tried to tell men the sane thing nineteen centuries in the past
and they had hooted Kim. Throughout those nineteen centuries good "Christians"
had heard His words and — like my dad — repeated them. They had done the same
hooting, by refusing to believe it deep down in their hearts. This being a world
where it is conceded in all other branches of thought that there cannot be a
human desire, or a human quandary, without a human fulfillment or answer, why
did they never stop to ask themselves how they came by their desire for survival
if there was not survival to supply the soul's hope of it?
All of this struck me with such progressive awe, as it gradually pene-
trated, that I went on faintly, "You said that a lot of people had 'watched'
everything that I'd ever done. What did you mean by that?"
"Naturally they would. You had to go through certain experiences This
Tine to equip you first for all that must follow, different from the Other Tines.
People in the Higher Consciousness know the audacious significance of wha.t you've
got to do before your earthly career terminates._ They've been watching and help-
ing as they could, every step of the way. This thing too, has happened all up
the ages, and men have refused to accredit its literality. Wherever rand whenever
there had to be a
. wholly new evaluation of human thought, a nan or a group of
nen have cone into life to launch it. Naturally their lives — as lives — were
highly esteemed and preserved. How many famous nen hpve you heard of, who were
certain that they had Guardian Angels. Or they mystically refer to 'following
their Star' . , it's just a form of having their lives and careers watched over
and conserved by great wise souls in Cosmos to make certain they perform correct-
ly as agents in mortality. What's strange about that?"
I gave these statements the reflection they merited. All of them were
startling. I had hitherto imagined, as most men do likewise, that I had fought
ny life's battles pretty much alone. What if all of that were nonsense? I said,
"You m-nean . . everything I've ever done, every sequence of experience I've
ever encountered and lived through, has served a
. definite and foreordained goal?"
"Something of the sort. It's rather involved,"
"But so many of my experiences seemed so silly, so futile!"
"My dep„r brother, get this into your head consciously henceforth, and
preach it to men with a clarion voice, . . no experience ever is silly, no inci-
dent in their lives — no matter how trifling — ever is futile. For every ex-
perience you've gone through, every word you've uttered, every person you've met,
there’s been a deliberate motivation . . and a purpose to be served. Moreover,
you've known it in your Subconscious Mind. No," this friend emphasized gravely,
"regardless of what spiritual or sense adventures you've ever had, or that any
nan or wonan has ever had, or which you or they will have in future, always re-
call my saying it, no part of your experience ever is purposeless! You've no re-
lations with anyone that a,re not on your Program. And tha.t applies equally to
every soul that's ever lived."
I believe I murmured something about my experiences with dad. I think I
called then troubles . *
193
"But you don't understand. How could they he 'troubles'? You had an
education to gain as swiftly as possible — polishing up your abilities to handle
men in groups, regaining a comprehensive knowledge of commercial practices, . .
you got under way as early as you could contrive it . , there's nothing to that I"
"But I've always felt tha.t farther wandered off sort of broken-hearted, not
fully understanding -
- "
"Bosh and nonsensei He did nothing of the sort, sot your mind at rest.
He had other people with whom he had appointments in life, tha.t didn't concern
you, or your mother, or your sister in the slightest. Ke departed and kept then."
It did not occur to me to question the authority of this friend for his
statements, or inquire how he came to knew my life's smallest details. I made
mention of Marion.
"That," came his answer, "was a somewhat different case. You as man and
woman had a definite period of stress and strain to undergo together that was
to serve both of you in developing your poise."
I asked, "What is poise?"
"Poise is the ability to listen for the eternal voice of Truth in regard
to character, situation, or event. It's the gift of peaceful consideration of
the universe, knowing tnat all which is of error or indiscretion shall one day
come to be disclosed. But then again, in the matter of your marriage, there was
likewise something else . . your daughter, ^t was necessary for her to become
mortally conscious in such a
. situation that she could serve both of you in the
filial relationship and both of you serve her. Only a
. marriage, and its attend-
ant parenthood, could effect such arrangement. Do you notice that after this
had been arrived at — the both of your two children being correctly inducted
into life — the breach followed quickly between your wife and yourself. The
Cosmic Purpose had been served which brought the two of you together. Whereupon
both of you became aware that you had relationships to discharge in this life as
well, with widely scattered persons. You went forth seeking them."
I gave a thought to Marion and I meeting in those nights in the proofroom
of The Homestead office. If such explanations were correct, how might we then
have suspected that matrimony was ahead for us partly because the souls of so-
called "children" were waiting to get into manifestations of mortality wherein
they could discharge certain obligations pro and con, among all of us equally?
How many other people were there in life, like Marion and me, serving like pur-
poses blindly, never knowing as I was privileged to know, the reasons conscious!
ly? I a.sked, "How about my son?"
"The events of your lives will prove that you and he are strangers . .
your lives are not together . . he's a debtor and creditor on the ledger of
your wife's life . . but your daughter is yours, and in time you'll grasp it.
Several tines I had wanted, with a pardonable awe, to make references
to Harriet, the baby we had lost long ago in Brattleboro. Was I in such a sit-
uation that I might make such contact, see her in the "body" as the years might
have changed her? My friend caught my thought . .
"Go on," he prompted. "Figure it out. You never did lose Harriet!"
Was he referring to Adelaide? Immediately he added —
"There are no 'lost babies' . . an accident can happen . , or a
. parent
may need the poise that cones from what seems to be frightful sorrow. But many
a
. mother holds in her arms her 'lost' child, and never knows it. If it wasn't so,
Life would be too cruel."
"But Life is_ cruel!"
"No, Life can't be cruel. Life is merely profitable!" It was the gent-
lest of rebukes . .
Strange that I had no urges to go poking or prying about, looking up lost
relatives, asking for a
. glimpse of historical personages. One doesn't, in that
194
marvel. The locality was no more nine, to go poking and. prying about in, than
as if I wore visiting in the hone of an acquaintance. I was sinrply content to
sit by the side of this sublimated person and consider his wisdom. He did not
seen in a hurry to give it. His tine was ny tine, a.nd ny tine his tine. I
believe I returned again to that nystical sense of feeling like the loosely-
knit bundle of a
. score of personalities. In life they were all tightened up
into one — so tight that I never could tell which one was in command of me
and so all were in command. This unit made of many units I commonly termed
Myself. If this were so, then instead of losing our sense of identity at demise
of the body, we increased it. What a thought! But given sufficient time, how
did ono determine which of the composite units was which. I expressed the desire
to know how it might be done. My friend made me then his most profound adjura-
tion, He said —
"Listen, my brother! Listen in your spirit!"
Listen! How could listening perform it? I allowed this to pass. But
life — tall existence — was suddenly growing orderly.
The Pattern, the Pattern! Life had been the Pattern. One had only to
live it — to let it happen. All the factors and ingredients had been supplied
by the conditionings of ny boyhood, perhaps of many boyhoods, the circumscrip-
tions of ny youth, the employments of young manhood, the calls of ny maturity.
Always and forever I had responded to those calls. They had brought me unerr-
ingly, straight to this moment. I said finally, "Ani. what am I supposed to do,
now that I'm beginning to understand? And why will I do it?H
The answer came thoughtfully, "You'll do all the things you originally
nade the Compact to do. Then, when you Cone Back to stay, the Why will be
clear!"
"I made some sort of Compact?"
"Everyone makes a Compact. He has to make a compact. That is his en-
trance-card to the Arena of Experiencing, How could it be otherwise and the
world not bo chaos? Could a stage-manager direct an earthly drama, and create
an intelligent performance, if it were not arranged beforehand with all the
actors precisely what each was to say, and how and when they were to say it,
after the curtadn lifted? How much more significant is the Great Stage Play
of earth?"
I wa.s learning by feeling in those fraught, ageless moments. I cannot
include in this sequence all my conversations of that interlude. If I did,
this chapter would be my whole book. Besides, I say again, I cannot violate
privacies of people who nay never write biographies. But after an hour of such
intercourse, I affirm that this thing happened -
-
As I sat and received such wisdom, a strange bluish mist began slowly to
swirl about me. At first I believed it an illusion of the circumstance. Then
it seemed that heavier and heavier furls of scentless smoke were closing in
about me. It suddenly became opaque, then tangible to touch.
Presently they were so strong and eddied so furiously that the face and
figure of my friend became obscured. I realized that somehow the phenomenon
had seized hold of me. I was swirling physically with it!
faster and faster spun that weird carousel. Then, in its vortex as I
became a part of it, I lost sense of sight and place. Straight through the
heart of it I seemed to be traveling at a speed that was terrific. As abruptly
I paused . ,
As I paused, something awful closed about me. It seemed as though a
great suit of clammy auid cloying tallow and suet, pounds of it, tons of it, a
niasna of rending, grinding, suffocating flood of it, was seeking to crush me.
It crunched me horridly, an excruciating crunch that ended in a click!
I opened my eyes to my bungalow bedroom, with faint patches of starlight
X95
narking out the casenonts. I was back in the nortal Thing, the grinding and
groaning of physical atons conposing ny "moribund" body. My heart was pound-
ing frightfully. My constricted forehoad was wet with perspiration.
I lay stunned for half a ninute, striving to accredit the sickening
occurrence. I was back in the socalled earthly "vehicle", and ny physical flesh
was loathe some about ne.
I pulled nyself up on one elbow in the bed . .
CH1PTER TWENTY-EIGHT
ASK no nan to believe the {greater nystery that now followed. All I affirn is,
that I would be a fool to ba.se ny whole subsequent life and career on the
■ afternath of it, if it were but a fignent of ny own ina.gination. Fron sone-
where in that vicinity it seened that I heard a faniliar voice address ne. Was
it audible in the roon or inside ny own head? . .
"Wait a ninute! Make the transition again. We haven't finished with our
visiting!"
Make the transition over again?However could Inanage it?
"You know how to do it. Relax and cone back!"
I recall lying back on ny pillow with the eager thought, "Yes, I want
nore of it," This thought, in truth, was like the poignant desire that cones
to all of us to return to the ecsta.cies ofan agreeable drean when sono shock
hasawakened us. 3ut what followed was no nore a drean than the first.
I was fully conscious now. My stricture had passed, ny respiration was
nprnal. And in that darkened norning hour, alone but for ny dog in that noun-
tainsido bungalow, I had it in ny Subconscious to actually relax and vacate.
I felt nyself quitting ny body deliberately.
None of the spasn this tine, none of the distress. Oh if poor, terrified,
fright-wracked nortals could only know the bliss that is lifers Great Relea.se!
i/ith the sane exquisite languor that I had felt first in the grasp of ny friends,
I went through the vortex of the fraught Purple Passage.
I poised.
I arrived.
This tine no one "caught" ne. I novod out as fron a bluish fog into that
exquisite radiance that is just on the other side of The Door. Nor did it occur
to ne that I had done anything especially narvelous. I went through that avenue
on this ensuing episode as snoothly and uneventfully as though I had dropped
back into slunber, as I say, and resuned a pleasant drean. I knew ny Way!
Cut when I energed into the larger Reality this tine, a peculiar change had cone
over the portico. It was filling with scores of people! . .
They seened to be sauntering into the place fron that long colunned corri-
dor on the conpartnent1s "northern" side. They did not appear as though to grat-
ify a boorish curiosity. It seened a nost casual and fraternal goodfellowship
that assembled then so. They had all the tine in the world, it seened. They
stood around chatting in groups. And nearly everyone nodded and spoke to ne.
They had a kindness, a courtesy, a friendliness, in faces and addresses
that quite overwhelned ne. Think of all the attractive, sedate, poised, and yet
goodhunored folk you know, imagine then gathering in a chanber that was exclusive
to themselves — no social nisfits, no tense countenances, no sour leers, no
lines of repressed temper or subtle dissipations — • and the entire environment
permeated with their ecstatic harnony as universal as air, and you get an idea
of that "reception" in ny reactions. Rut was it a reception?
I noticed that whenever I engaged anyone's attention, he had that gentle
laughter in his eyes, the crux of good hunor nixed with fine poise. I ex-
196
claimed, to myself, "How happy everyone seemsl Every person here transmits some-
thing that makes me want to know him or her better I" Then my complacency gave
way to shock —
These persons were not strangers to me! Each and every one of them I had
known intimately somewhere or other, at sometime or other!
But they were sublimated now, . . splendidly rejuvenated, not at all as I
had known them in "the moribund state" . .
I lOW can I make my reader understand how natural it seemed that I should be
rJ there with them, and included among them? All terror at the strangeness of
ay condition had left me. Never in my life had I felt more alive. It had not
occurred to me before, or now, that I might be in "heaven", or if it did, it left
no more impress upon my mind that it would seem queer to me to marvel at present
that I am on "earth" . . after all, does humanity know more about this place then
the other? Of a certainty, both are natural.
I had made two necromantic voyages on the sane night through what seemed
a bluish void, and each time found myself sexless in a most entrancing place,
contacting affable, cultured, gracious people . . Those Who Had Attained. They
saw something about me that amused them to the point of quiet merriment, and yet
never a merriment that I could resent. They seemed to be more or less conven-
tionally garbed, these people, both men and women. The big, broad-shouldered,
blue-eyed friend in white, whom I had first taken to be Boyden, always stayed
in ny vicinity as though keeping an eye on my condition or conduct. The other
man, who seemed so vaguely connected with Mary, was back in this second sequence
and for the first time we spoke and grew better acquainted . .
Nobody in the_t assemblage seemed to leave the portico, anymore than peo-
ple gathered for an evening in an exquisitely-lighted residence would bethink
then to go out and stroll on darkened lawns. I talked with these people, felt
that I correctly identified most of then, called some by wrong names and was
properly chagrined.
Dead people?
What a travesty on intelligence!
Oh if the human race — the whole plodding, stumbling, despairing, blund-
ering, terrified race of little children called men a.nd women — could only know
what I know of the state that awaits then after the toil and the heartbreak and
the disappointment of this transient life is qnded, how gracious Life itself
night be viewed! Oh that these could grasp, as I wa.s permitted to grasp, the
Time of Beauteous Rejoicing that _is to be — the Golden Moment that is in the
millenia — when we all go through the Purple Passage and cone out safely into
porticos of loveliness, envisioning in stupefaction those beloved faces that
wo may scarcely recognize at first because of the way that divine munificence
has transmuted and transformed then! Yes, let the orthodox tern it the Con-
course Beautiful in through heaven's gate, . . what harm does it do? What do
terns natter? The cries of tender greeting, the beloved reunions, the blessed
realizations that there is no need to go back, as I was twice obliged to go back,
that is the Attainment, and the Power, and the Glory. And yet I declare, I was
proud to go back. My privilege it was to carry word to those who had not been
favored as I had been favored, to keep the heart stout and the lip tight for
just a little longer, to hold the courage high and the soul gentle for just a
fow years more . . until the Golden Moment arrives for each and every one to
heave the gentle sigh and slip away to infinite roaches of tranquil understand-
ing. No, I did not die in the conventional sense of dying. My body I kept
alive while I transcended the heartaches and soul-griefs of common mortality
and for a
. blessed and beloved interval mingled with the Choir Invisible of the
Immortal Living, dwelling in porticos beautiful whose terraces op>cn on delect-
able mountains. ,Q
r
7
That was ray augury, that was ray destiny, that was my heartbreak, ray
epilogue, my pattern. It was ray mission to See, ray brevet to Know. I had
conquered in ray own life — by the grace of ray preferment1 and the loving com-
panionship of a compassionate woman. So I had cone to the crown and the raxL-
iance, the committment and the treasure . .
And so it is for everyone! Take heart, my brother. 3o of good cheer,
ny sister. The way is steep and the path is stony. There are many brambles
and the pitfalls seen inhuman. But He who said, "I an the 'Jay, the Truth, and
the Light" uttered no falsehood when He also said, "In My Father's house are
many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a
place for you, that where I am, ye may be also,"
I know that there is one Mansion at least.
For a fleeting moment in eternity I stood within its portico. And then
I returned that I night tell you about it! . .
r’
lllALLY I was alone. Alone but for the second friend this tine. We sat upon
‘ the steps of that portico in starlight. It seeraed a long long time, ages and
ages ago, that I had made ny entrance into that exquisite place, that these
friends had "caught" me and sought to reassure me.
I said to him, "If all of life's experiences could be rolled up into one,
if all the smiles and joys and tears, and mistakes and trifles and increments,
and all the greater things and all the lesser things, were encased in one lam-
bent attaining of Desire, what would the world envision as the product, I wonder?"
He answered thoughtfully, crystal-blue eyes afar on the stars that seemed
quite as friendly as any stars that I had witnessed in the Slower Rate of Cir-
cumstance, "My dear fellow, we're the sum and substance of such attainment as we
are, It's in our faces and our voices, in our spjeech and in our fluency — and
the tune that we hum in the freshness of morning. It couldn't be otherwise and
have it all real."
"This is the Real," I told him in aftermath.
IIE SEEMED thoughtful after that. "You'11 hear me speaking to you many tines
•
T
J hereafter," said he. "Please try to hear me."
I said, "Can that be managed?"
"It's the most natural process in the world. Just relax and listen.
Wait and have patience. Strike a Deep Silence and wait for Faith's echo. It
will cone, If the strange Thought Voice enters into your mind, speaking, don't
think you're irrational, that your Subconscious is playing tricks. Millions of
people have the gift but never suspect it. They get the intercourse in frag-
ments and call them Inspirations. Or they get it in impressions and they say,
'
I have a hunch.' But you'll know what is happening. I must go," he concluded.
"How can I make myself Believe that this night’s thing has happened? How
can I describe it so my friends will accredit it?"
"Better they'll grasp it,better than you think. The hearts of the world
are famished to grasp it."
"But men and women have so often been tricked,"
"But the hunger's in their souls. They're encased for the moment in mor-
tal hurts and heartbreaks that they think are 'practicalities' . . but under-
neath, they know. And you'll bear living witness of what they truly want to
believe. Besides, we'll help you nore than you dream."
"Just what must I do?"
"Your Life-Plan brought you up to tonight. Do you think it'll halt? . .
that it won't flow strongly onward till your Compact is fulfilled? You'll know
what to do. Or circumstance will show you."
"And is that all?" I asked.
He said, "I'll tell you the rest a fragment at a tine . . as you have
198
need in your progressing affairs. If people only knew where many of the
thoughts are derived from, which they fondly imagine they originate themselves,
how contrite they might he." He added a moment later, "And if they knew as
well what thoughts they do originate can project into this spatial universe, a
lot of them might alter their insouciant philosophies,"
"Project here, you mean?"
"Exactly," he declared. "Thought-forms. Horrible thought-forms often.
So poignantly sent to people tliis world. And now forgive me if I leave you."
He arose and departed along the lovelycyanite shadows. How was I to know
then that this too was part of the Plan . . that I had one final incident com-
ing, to show me the effects of ganglion?
I wa.s alone.
And yet, a
. greater and sweeter tranquility than I had ever known, moved
up around my spirit. I did an incongruous thing — or perhaps the most natural
thing in the world. I thought of Marion. I thought of her as I had first
known her, hack there in The Homestead office in Springfield, seventeen years
before . .
Behold what happened!
I saw taking slow and terrible form there in the half-light before me
the unmistakable outlines of a woman. Vague and unsteady at first, then
stronger end more opaque they grew. I thought in a panic, "Can Marion be here?"
As I gave stronger impetus by this consternation, this apparition moved.
Jor it was apparition. And because it was merely a projection of my own inter-
nal thought forming externally, because in a manner of speaking I was being a
god and creating in my own right, I looked in cold horror on this thing I was
fashioning.
It was the Thought Husk of the woman who had been the mother of my chil-
dren. She swayed toward me. The light touchedher face, the natted tresses of
her hair. It was like seeing an upright corpse lifted from an invisible casket.
I recoiled from that spectacle. And even as I recoiled, I seemed to pull it
towards me. I even saw color like ghastly rouge on the flat of the cheekbones.
Marion had never used rouge. The hair too, was unread. It wa.s too soft, too
natted, too glossy.
The whole Tiling was monstrous!
And it did not walk, it drifted. It pulled along after me as I sprang
up and retreated in my sudden isolation. Then full in the radiance of the in-
terior of the portico as she entered upon it, Isaw that this thought-form was
as the paper-mache husk of a woman. Her visagehad no eyes!
I tried to cry out at the dreadfulness of it. I retreated towaxd the
bench. I got as far back as I could go, the apparition following close, I
fell sitting upon the seat.
Thereat started a merciful curtain of the lambent swirling mist! . . It
spun, it eddied, it shut the self-manufactured image of Marion away. It was
blotted out. Vaguely it dissolved . . it was lost in quickening phantasm as
the mystical vortex spun faster and faster.
This time it was sanetuaxy. I was ready to Go Back. I yielded to it
willingly, as to the arms of a nurse whom I knew I could trust.
I made the Purple Passage.
But I a.ver that there was no less shock, no less horribleness, no less
pain and wracking, entering again into the sluggishness of atoms. It’s not the
Going Over that hurts. No, my friend, it's the Coming Back. Pray God you don't
ever have to do that.
It was over. It had happened. Now all of it was Memory. I had been
through the Eirst Door of Revelation and something within me was lifted, lifted.
Life could never weight down again, it could never slacken. It could never know
199
pressure that would crush ne beneath it. Never would I forget the Beauty and
the Peace.
I sat on the edge of ny bed with my head in my hands. When I started to
consider mundane things again, I sensed the fact that the sun of nev.r California
morning was singing across the tops of the mountains. The clock on my bed-
stand said twenty minutes to six o’clock. Laska crawled out. She stretched
first her front legp, then her hind legs, sat down on her haunches and thumped
her tail thrice. This meant in dog-language, "When do we eat?"
"0 GOD!" I sobbed suddenly . .
"f'HAT I was bade again. That I had to cone back.
•
* I had not consciously or willfully invited this experience which three mil-
lions of people were presently to hear about. I had lived my life as best I
knew how from month to month and from year to year. Now this had broken on me!
The day was before ne. The year was before me. Life was before me. I
disregarded Laska. I lay supine on the rumpled bed and remained there most of
that banal forenoon. Stunned.
"I've got to see Mary," I finally whispered. "I've got to get to her and
tell her all about it as soon as I can manage it."
ake the space at this point to descend to the trivialities of
.
_______0 .
.
.
.
a
t happened at my offices that afternoon when I made ny daily
visit. Tha.t I had changed physically by the night's experience was so apparent,
although no one knew the cause, that ny employees gathered in little knots to
discuss ne. I sought out Helen and described the full episodes. A quiet grat-
ification and an utter acceptance of every item was ny Golden Girl's reaction.
I withdrew into myself, engaged in as little commercial business as I could, and
sought to understand what had been unleashed within my own soul by that astound-
ing night's denouement.
For something had happened to me, inwardly, mentally.
I suddenly had access to reservoirs of Knowledge that can only be des-
cribed as I recount the application. That will come presently.
As I went through those weeks, preceding the most stupendous fall and
winter that I had lived through to date, any awe at my alteration wore away
among those with whom I mingled. All of them admitted that somehow or other I
had known rejuvene-tion. My skin took on a ruddiness. Lines were gone from my
face. Bodily fatigue departed mo.
I had somehow been reborn . .
But even back in those first few weeks, I knew what I knew. It has been
said of Hitler that he came from his tent one morning during the Gallipoli cam-
paign and announced to his companions that he had dreamed a dream — that's the
way they took it — during the night, that it was his destiny to save the Ger-
man people. This "knowing what one knows" . . I daresay that Adolf would under-
stand exactly what happened that night in my bungalow . .
It was increasingly clear as autumn approached what those weird urges
were tha.t made writing so bana.1 — that I had persistently described to Lillian,
Beryl, Mary, . . the Big Job, the humanitarian ships, the cohorts of mercy that
must visit a nation. I had gone through life to date to train me for Some-
thing. Now I saw what it was, or at lea.st began to get it. A time of great
trouble was coming to America. Impoverishment and suffering was to prostrate
So what?
CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
October before I got away .
200
ny country — not only ny country "but ell notions of the globe. Out of it, and
after it, p Golden Age was scheduled to cone in wondrously. Men were going to
undergo conplete transformations in their habits of thinking and living, of
learning and worshipping. All the Great Druns of the universe were due to
crash mightier. I must march in their tumult. Yes, squarely in the heart of
it! I query the cynical rationalists if, as they subsequently contended, my
experience had all been a dream, how did I cone from it knowing in those weeks
back in 1928 of the stupendous events that have since cone to pass, that are
now happening 'round no, that loon inexorable for the future? How could I have
registered with ny friends the things that I did? They will tell you that I
did so.
fuNE autumn sunset I stood on the front steps of ny bungalow. The western
skies were flaming scarlet. The sun was a blob of incandescent glory, I
looked afa.r into Pacific haze . . a museum of vernillions, mauves, and cherries,
. . across scores of niles of valley. I was leaving the next afternoon for
New York, a feeling of ghastly homesickness swept over me. My spirit was a
heartcry. I wanted to be with those people of the Portico!
My bungalow neant little or nothing to me now. My books, ny writing, ny
worldly prospects had a deeper significance. It was not at all the old dissat-
isfaction. What bothered me now was, that the things of life were Things. I
knew there were a.venues and monuments beyond mortal circumscription, realms that
truly counted, where living was a harmony, where one walked with one's kind.
Truly, despite ny Golden-Eead, despite my revelation and ny brevet, I was
a stranger in a strange land.
I was sick to be hone.
Once before, in a crucial juncture in ny life I had. looked into the sun's
heart and wondered at ny destiny. I mean, that morning on Asana volcano. Nine
years before, it had been, almost to the nonth. My cycle had maneuvered. I had
arisen that morning on Asana, nine years bygone, gone down the scoria, lowered
myself step by step into realms that had been dark. And what those nine years
had encompassed! I recalled Bolshevia, those corpses that moved on the Alex-
ieffs battlefield, Karl waving adieu to me in bitter sunshine of winter's norn-
ing as our train took a
. curve . , where was Karl at the moment, I wondered? . .
I thought of ny return to St. Johnsbury, the loss of ny paper. Then had come
that new cdvalcade of intimates, Lillian, Beryl, Mary, Lon, Eddie, Grant. How
evenly balanced were the men and women in ny life, I thought of those ten weeks
of nights in the St. Johnsbury hospital as I lay wracked with fever, those first
days in Manhattan, ny parting fron Marion. Then had cone those wanderings, the
eating of the fleshpots.Nine years of it. Could it bepossible that only nine
years had encompassed it? With ny leaving for New York on the morrow, a new
cycle was opening. What would that bring? There was bound to be a bottom to
every Curve of Fortune. Where would mine findne?
Yes, ny heart was full as I walked down the steps of ny little property
and out upon the lawn — the little property into which I had put so much work
and sentiment. I looked fron my height into oceans of shadows where the night
was coming in.
My first Cycle had been one of material acquisition, a gross fleshly
hilltop that ended with boyhood. My second had maneuvered through vicissitudes
of intellect, the winning of laurels in the writing profession, a Cycle of Mind.
My third had brought ne up to The Door of Revelation, the portals into Spirit.
After Spirit, what?
Helen was up there that night. She cane and stood beside ne. We watched
the sunset. "It's so beautiful!" she choked.
Was she referring to the sunset — • or the vista — or Life? But any of
2G1
then was ‘
beautiful. Each stood for so much.
As I stood there with Helen on that height in the Sierra Madras that
poignant autumn twilight and watched lambent night hang outan evening star, I
had a beautiful hone, a prosperous business,more money in the bank than I had
ever known in my life, more than all else a woman who was tender, who knew ny
strange urges — The Girl of the Valiant Heart who never once had wavered in
the camaraderie of the Sojourn.
For she too was a Stranger with me in a country that was strange. Small
wonder that I had known her face better than ny own mother's tha.t night on Mrs.
Shaw's porch in creeping moonlight. I was leaving her next day for justalit-
tle while. The absence did not matter. The Cycle indeed ..
The colors turned to embers, and ashes filled the sky. Fireflies of city
lights winged and prinkled in the mist. This was to be our last evening together
in the beloved bungalow with all things in order and our hearts in its essence.
But we did not know it then. At eleven o'clock, as usual, I drove her down to
Shaw's.
And now that Nine-Year Cycle that I faced afresh that twilight, has man-
euvered once again. I havebeen down to the bottom arc of the valley for the
fourth time, and for the fourth time mounted up. Ihave as many eventful things
to write as any that I havewritten. But one thing is blessed.
Again I write from a
. mountaintop — a
. place known in thenation'sgeo-
graphies as The Land of the Sky. I write from another exquisite little home
whose windows look out on Delectable Mountains . . the Great Smokies of western
North Carolina, for verily it seems that all America is my home.
And my Golden Girl no longer departs at eleven. The deep night enfolds us.
There is but one set of footprints now on The Trail . .
CHAPTER THIRTY
O
NE MORE episode I have to record before I close this sequence.
Again it concerns The Spirit.
All through my boyhood I had been religious but never theological. If I
thought of the After-Life in terms of my father's dogma it was to fiercely resent
the idea that I had to spend eternity twanging away on an Irish zither or maybe
roasting away on a griddle. For the personal character of The Great Teacher of
Galilee I had always entertained a fraternal loving reverence. But there was
nothing either religious or theological about it. It was a more personal rela.-
tionship. True, I did not place much stock in the story that He had died for
ny sins. I saw no merit to me that anyone had died for my sins — no more than
I felt called upon to be punished for the sins of others, and emphatically not
some ancient Adam. Vicarious Atonement was the philosophical escape of moral
weaklings from an equally philosophical dilemma. If I were guilty of any sins
sufficient to merit death, I was not afraid of doing my own dying.
It was not the Christ of the Cross therefore, who particularly appealed
to me, but Christ the Counsellor, Friend, Instructor, and Wiser Elder Brother.
Thousands of people, I often told myself, have fallen down elevator-shafts,
had their legs cut off by locomotives, smashed into hurtling motorcars on Sab-
bath afternoons a„nd flopped around in agony on asphalt pavements — suffering
quite as painful deaths as being affixed for a few hours to crossed beams of
wood. If I had any penalties coming to me, I say, I preferred to stand up and
take them for myself . . God made me that way.
These utterances are important because of what happened next night as I
crossed the Mojave Desert . .
Religion, I sum it up, was encompassed for me in Ethics. Love the Lord
202
thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul, venerate end enulate the beau-
tiful, and give the other fellow an even break — this totaled ny religious no-
tions to the rnonent, although I plead guilty to being rather weak on the loving
of the Lord part. I had never net the Lord up till then, or seen any particu-
lar reason for steaming up affection for Kin. If Ee was the God of the Jews who
were making a shambles of Russia and a stink of Hollywood, and naught else, then
He and I could manage to stagger along separately for a little while longer with-
out much maudlin interchange of sentiment. Who was God, I say, that I should
particularly love Him? I translated loving God with the serenity of ny childhood
life in the village of East Templeton on summer Sunday mornings. All the same,
I ha.d read enough of the Neo-Platonists to realize that nan’s days were few in
number and when his body died, it could be a long long tine to Resurrection.
Maybe I was raised a
.
t the last trump and maybe I wasn't. A lot depended on who
trumped the trump.
This was the condition of my heart and mind religiously, despite ny hyper-
dimensional experience in May, in bidding Helen goodbye at the train, waving
adieu to A1 Burke with Laska between both of them in the seat of ny roadster at
the Pasadena station, and being rolled smoothly down through the orange groves
toward Sa.n Bernardino and Cajon Pass.
It was the fall of the year, the eucalyptus trees wore growing heavy and
leathery, California was as sear from its usual summer’s burning as a cheap
cigar. We got down around the San Bernardino curve in late afternoon, puffed up
the Pass and gained to Victoryville. Ep.stward for two days and a night then
stretched the Mojave Desert — tha.t vast of sand, emptiness, and color
that bound the Sierra Madras to the Colorado Rpckies. I had made the trip a
dozen times before. Not until the sun sank and the long lines of slanting
beauty painted the Mojave with necromancy, did I lay aside my book and stare
through the windows.
The world was exquisite as I watched the first stars of evening come out.
The mountains were not mountains, they were summits of hazy uplands seen in
dreams, made merely to catch supernal color and caress it. It was as though God
had said, "See what I can do I" . . do you like it?" and when one exclaimed at
it, He said, "Wait a moment, let me show you something else," and He tried an-
other lavish splash of tints and shades that did something more than impinge
on the eye — it tremored the soul.
The evening wore on, the moon came up, the desert grew chill — I knew
from the breezes, snoko-scented, that cane in beneath the screens. A grea.t
ocean of ochre, vacuuity, the landscapes now were, with an ebon vault over then
where the stars sagged down by reason of their weight. Eight o'clock came,
nine, ten. I had gone forward into the club car after dinner. This coach now
emptied.
Softly, soothingly, the great train clicked along through the void of
aridity, past nesquite and lava ash, through thorn and yucca. The mountains
had gone to sleep, their blankets deep mauve. The train ran so steadily that
the coaches scarcely swayed.
I remember that the negro porter cleaned the car for the night and
turned out some lights. I sat browsing over Emerson. The porter finally went
back through the train. I was the sole occupant now of that big forward coach.
Then this thing happened'. . .
I had come to a certain page in Emerson’s wondrous essay on The Over Soul
. . I had lowered my book . . What was the Over Soul? . . Was there a vast,
brooding, benevolent Consciousness that wrapt all humanity in Its heart? I
asked. I asked earnestly. I wanted an answer.
I was not asleep. I was not expecting what dramatically transpired.
It seemed as though that entire club coach was filled with a Presence’
203
Twice later in my life I would know that vibration, that stupendous
and stunning flash of proximity to an Over Soul in Real. This was the first
tine. My whole being paused.
I did not sense the car about me. I was unmindful where I was. Whether
physically alone or with ten thousand persons, would have made no difference. I
could not have been alone in those moments.
Out on a desert of the great southwest, on a train winding carefully
through the starlit beauty of the night, I suddenly knew something, something
tremendous! . .
JESUS CALLED CHRIST WAS NOT A SAB5ATK MYTH!
|IGKT, it was, that told me . . a flood of vast radiance immersing ny soul, a
fount crystal clear, sensuous as flame, pure as a mountain of green ice,
lambent as a new-born star, old as Eternal Time out of the cache of the aeons,
dear as ny mother’s sacrifice, tender as a woman's devotion, high as the dizzi-
est crux of the zenith.
Jesus called Christ v/as not a Sabbath myth! He was not a theological
postulation. He was not the Guess of ponderous savants. He was not an etch-
ing on the copper of the whimsical. He was not smug ethics on a salvar, served
with cracked ice and a bit of pious lemon.
He was livingly, radiantly, overwhelmingly REAL1
.
A rash came on my forearms where my sleeves were rolled up. My neck felt
the brush of it. Shivers were playing up ny back, across ny groin, down the
calves of ny legs. Not shivers of terror but impulses to splendor, beauty so
high and so deep and so wide and so rich that I wanted to sing with it . . all
that I could do was to swallow in ny throat.
VThere had I been all my life? Uhat had I been doing with myself? What
sort of truant had I played with my destiny? What sort of a commission had I
been given, only to doubt the One who had given it?
I was hot. I was cold, I was surcharged with emotion, I was empty as
a church. I was never calmer in ny days,
I had nothing more to worry about!
D
O NOT ask me how all this roached me. It was totally different from ny ad-
venture in Seven Minutes. That v/as dimensional. This was Pure Knowing. I
had an overwhelming flood of supernal consciousness, the call to an ennoblement,
a desire to a valor. Let the foolish, the squeamish, the little chattering daws
of men peck at me curiously and say that this happened or that happened, or my
subliminal self produced an illusion.
It was not illusion. It was Majesty, Humility, Desiring, Arriving! It
was equipoise, heart's ease, lovely acquiescence to the Eternal, whex-ever and
however the Eternal came in. It was letting down, halting, exquisitely releas-
ing. It was the final and ultimate cessation of contest.
I knew a complete — an inexorable — a transcendent — peace! It
reached me, it lifted me, it enfolded and cherished me. I say that it bore me
outward and onward. Sut onward to what? . .
Jesus called Christ was not afar on some twinkling planet. He was not
stalking some theological Valhalla, pleading for the sentenced. He was neither
judge nor advocate. Men judged themselves.
Jesus called Christ was an Infinite Tenderness yet withal a Proud In-
tellect, omnipotence gone personal. I knew that I did not have to strive and
wrestle with cankerings any longer, I did not need to brawl with the world, to
make faces at Destiny and dare it to chase me. I was the man I had wranted to
be from the first. All things were real. All life was whole. The Celestial
Flash had come , .with the passing of mere minutes.
204
What was the Over Soul, indeed?
The Over Soul was not something that one dusted off with "brooms of phil-
osophy, it was nothing to kodak and send a print to one’s sister. It was a
subline sense of Knowing, in that one was. It was living a part of it, breath-
ing a fraction of it, thinking the blessing of it, pulsing as the acorn of life
within the all-enfolding tree of it.
Christ was. I was. There was nothing more to fret about. If such were
Patnos, then I knew how St. John felt about it when he returned from his island
and bethought him to write a 3ook upon it before the details slipped his nenory.
^TARS and nights, and things forgotten and things knownl . . loveliness beyond
J depiction, sweet tears and sweeter blessings from those who in blessing for-
ever bless softly! . . nights and stars, and radiant beautitudes trenoring from
the galaxies! . . charmed paternosters, bains, balsams, and elixirs, missives
of contentment lost on verdant hillsides and misnamed wild flowers, brooks that
held within their singings the rolling pangs of oceans, the seven seas them-
selves! . . old diadems and new crowns, argosies, ecstacies! . . one night and
the purity, one night and the Transition, one night and the eternal majesty of
old worlds going out and new worlds coming in! . . the zenith and the richness
of it, the distance and the music of it! . . One Night of Revelation!
Once there was a Stax, and once there was a Manger . , once there were
Wise Men . . once there \7ere shepherds . . once those shepherds watched their
flocks, and the woods and the hills and the murmuring pools were pregnant . ,
Suddenly was music! . . The whole world rang with it! . . Angels crashed an
anthem and it floodod up the aeons . . "Peace on earth! Enlightenment! Good-
will toward all those who behold with Clear Vision!" . .
I knew it all now. It was clear and untarnished, and uplifting, and
triumphant . . withal it was Tranquility raised to the mission of a millenium,
the surrender to Patience, the accolade of Mastership.
Do not try to tell me of The Carpenter! . . I felt Kim inquiring for me
• • 1 breathed in Kis nobility . .
Patnos on a Pullman?
Perhaps. Perhaps. Stranger things have happened, and men have not
marveled.
It was Spirit Triumphant believing its own.
The Cycle had maneuvered.
I had found a New Silence . .
I HAD GONE THROUGH TEE DOOR! . . .
205
D O O r)
Jv V£LA T iO M
PART POUR
CHAPTER ONE
j \ LL great movements that have changed the course of empires have started as
j —\ a Cloud no higher than a man’s hand . .
J j The va.st institution of predatory Judah was begun when a Hidianite shep-
herd appeared in the ghettos of Memphis, Egypt, and harangued the Israelites
on the significance of Jehovah speaking to him from a burning bush on a lonely
mountainside.
Modern Christianity started with a young Nazarene sauntering in among
some wedding guests at Cana, naJcing them wine by passing His hands over jars of
water, and remaining to discuss with them the terrible degeneration of the re-
ligion of the Scribes and Pharisees.
When that young Nazarene1s religion had' swept the Mediterranean world
and known a
. tragic subversion in its turn, it was one lono monk nailing the
Ninety-Three Articles to the chapel door in Wittenburg that projected the far-
reaching Reformation.
Coming down into more recent tines, one preacher rode up and down the
manufacturing towns of England and preached to crowds on street corners or in
fields. Thus Wesley gave birth to Methodism.
A bedridden woman in Now Hampshire was handed a book by one Quimby of
Maine on tho control of Mind over body. She wrote a bettor book of her own
and in .
a handful of years Christian Science had swept the nation.
The Cloud no bigger than a man's hand has shown itself quite as potent
in Politics and Government . .
A ragged French peasant wandered the hedgerows of Chambory and thought
out the principles of Tho Social Contract. The European ra.dica.ls made it the
cornerstone for the French Reign of Terror. Thus Jean Jacques Rousseau was in-
directly responsible for the Napoleonic wars which followed it, changing the
stream of history.
John Adams was responsible for calling together the handful of colonia.l
delegates who met in a forty-foot room in Carpenter's Hall, Philadelphia, and
out of whose deliberations came tho Declaration of Independence and our present
United States.
Four students meeting in an upper room changed the government of Japan.
The list is endless.
William Lloyd Garrison, a
. young printer so poor that he had. to sleep
beneath his shop's imposing-stone, wrote, "I am deadly in earnest, I will not
equivocate, I will not play politics, I will not retreat a
. single inch, and I
will be hea.rdi" The printer was hoard, the Civil War resulted, and the black
nan was freed.
Adolf Hitler's first speech was delivered to seven people from the top
of a
. boer-kog ana he often went about the streets of Munich in the afternoon
handing out free tickets to his own lectures in the evening.
Tho individual, not the mass, molds history.
206
And yet . . the program with each has “
been tha.t when he first wrote, or
stood \
i
p to speak, the Crowd has cried as it cried of old, "Is not this Joseph
the carpenter's son? Or again, "How can any good come out of Nazareth?"
The Crowd forgets that every prophet must first be suckled by some woman,
somewhere. Even a Christ must wear a shirt. The mightiest Caesar that ever
ordered up the legions of the universe has walked the floor with his face in a
sling because toothache could order him where monarchs could not.
This is a human world, where God gets His work done by human instruments.
Always a.nd forever when the Almighty has had some special renaissance to bring
about in Religion, Government, or Economics, He shuffles His celestial card-
index of hoping, fearing, struggling, loving mortals, till He comes to some name
that makes Him purse his lips. Mayhap He tosses out the card.
Subsequently, in mortality, a Cloud appears . . no bigger than a man1s
hand. The Cloud jis a man's hand. It has suddenly abandoned the tinseled things
of Mammon, the childish toys of material acquisitions. It has set itself to
plow a great furrow, to paint a great canvass, to right a great wrong. He is
the man who a year ago fought a lawsuit with his neighbor over eight chickens
that dug up his garden. He is the hoyden who ten years in the past eloped with
a barmaid and ran a Punch and Judy show over on the highroad. He is the same
imp who in his childish years tied cats' tails in knots to hear the creatures
yowl or changed the sugar for salt at the banquet of the deacons.
What has God to do with that?
God is concerned in getting the work done. It is assumed that men who
have fought lawsuits over the neighbors' chickens, eloped with barmaids, run
Punch and Judy shows, or performed miracles of sound with the appendages of
cats, have acquired a certain facility in the methods of this world so that
finding themselves on rostrums does not strike them mute for words.
They do not take the pen in hand as though it were a crowbar.
But the Crowd has queer ideas.
The prophet must be a stuffed image of probity and utter vast wisdoms
as he lies in his cradle.
The true Christ can never sprawl on his nose from a root in the pathway,
or drop a well-buttered knife upon his knees, or swallow a
. fish-bone and require
to be generously hammered on the back.
Such things are unthinkable,
God seems to hold differently. And so we have the Crowd refusing to
abide by the Lord's designations, hooting or stoning him unto whom The Vision
has come.
What has that to do with the size of The Cloud in an ensuing generation?
The Cloud appears, no bigger than a man's hand. It grows and takes on volume.
One, two, or three persons say, '
!
*
I don'tT£now where Joseph's son ever got hold
of those ideas he's telling us, . . he must have snitched them out of some proph
et's memoirs, . . nevertheless, they seen to feed my spirit." They each tell
twelve friends who have never met Joseph, so his son is no moment. Presently
the thirty-six have become a hundred and eighty. And in the exact ratio that
the terrible humanness of the prophet in the beginning is not known, the numbers
swell to thousands.
Show them their prophot engaged with a bellyache, trying to mend a clock,
carting the ashes out from the cellar, and they tell you his ideals are a delu-
sion and a snare. What they truly mean is, "Having no particular ideals of our
own, we cannot reveal our own spiritual penury by admitting that a man who thinkf
acts, and talks like we do otherwise, can possibly best us in snaring the Infin-
ite. We want gods to worship, not men who wield hammers and sometimes pound
their thumbs!"
Yet they ultimately worship those whose names were on the index-cards
207
which the Almighty tossed in a pile of their own. They take good care, how-
ever, to sublimate the deeds of him whom God has chosen. The lawsuit was not
a lawsuit over fowls; he was holding the faultiness of men's courts up to trav-
esty. The elopment with the barmaid was not an elopement; the prophet was thus
rebuking the sale of malt liquors. As for the Punch and Judy shows, the tying
of the cats' tails, the switching of salt for sugar at the banquet, these were
the fabrications of malicious persons seeking to subvert in the prophet's divin-
ity. Which suggests that perhaps John the Baptist lost his head to Salome, not
because he came crying in a great wilderness, . . she probably knew that as a
dancer she was terrible, and that John being onto it might ultimately divulge it.
The Almighty, I say, is concerned with His Cloud. The masses in mortality
are concerned with theophanies — using many seven-pound words and much clearing
of the tonsils to explain what can happen in human affairs when a clever individ-
ual acquires delusions of grandeur.
What difference does it make?
The renaissance comes . .
CHAPTER TWO
ARY dropped back a step when she came through the station-concourse en-
trance to the Commodore Hotel and we met face to face. "Why! . . you've
. . you've changed 11
1 she cried faintly, eyes searching my features. On
arrival I had phoned her to come over to the Commodore for luncheon.
Later that afternoon, in the ladies lounge, I reported all that had hap-
pened. She said when I had finished, "You've got to write this up for The Ameri-
can! Think of the inspiration that this could be to millions."
"Not in a million years'." I protested.
"What's the matter?"
"Matter enough. Do you think they'll understand it? Ninety out of every
hundred people will sa.y I've turned Spiritualist, or that I merely dreamed a
dream, or perhaps . . worse yet . . they'll cone out quite bluntly and declare
I've gone balmy. No, the whole experience — or I should say three experiences —
must forever remain something personally inviolate."
"I'm not so sure of that."
"Why aren't you sure?"
"You've heard of the parable of the Talents and the Napkin. That exper-
ience might never have been given you for you to bury selfishly."
"But Mary, think of the aftermath, what night grow from it!"
"Exactly," she answered. "That's just what I'm thinking."
"You n-nean you believe that people would accredit it?"
"The world's reached a stage where it's spiritually famished. People are
reaching out, clutching after something more substantial, more satisfying, than
what they hear in churches."
"But I'm not a Spiritualist, Mary. And I didn't dream a dream. And I
haven't gone balmy — at least I don't think so. Still, if I go writing about
what's happened to me, publicly, it may wreck all the prestige I've commanded
to the moment — prestige that I might want to employ to more constructive ends."
"Why not say rather, it might give you a prestige . . that you never
might have otherwise?" She flounced her handbag up and down in her lap. "Tell
me some more about these 'higher senses' that you claim were awakened by having
those experiences."
"Mary . . I don't know . . it sounds like an insanity . . "
"Nevermind the insanity part. I guess I can tell when a person is crazy.
Just because a dumb, illiterate, bigoted world designates as idiocy what it can't
208
achieve itself, is no especial reason for accepting its verdict. You said
you'd 'broken into' a reservoir of wisdom. Give ne full details . . just why
it seems so?"
"Well . . ever since the morning that I came awake . . and lay half a
day, stunned, . . I've discovered a change in . .my mental perceptions. That
experience, or those experiences, did something to me, Mary. They unlocked my
mind . . or the processes of Mind , . so that no matter what I want to know, it
just comes to me . . accurately!"
"Comes to you how?"
"You've probably had the experience common to all, of being faced with a
problem whose answer eludes you, You sit up past midnight struggling and con-
sidering it. Then you go to bed. You say, 'I'll get up and try a fresh brain
on it in the morning,' But lo and beheld, you wake up along between five and
six o'clock with the answer in your possession. People commonly say, 'Sxibcon-
scious mind was at work while I slept.' Well, maybe it was, and maybe it wasn't.
But suppose the same sort of thing performed without such lapse for slumber?
Suppose you wanted to know some terrific piece of wisdom and instead of wasting
a lot of hours in bed, you relaxed in a chair and stopped thinking consciously.
Presto! . . at once . . up from the regions at the back of your brain . . the
answer came full-born, even spoken to you in logical sentences one upon the other,
. . and all you had to do was to repeat them aloud to someone who tooK them down
on paper. That's how it is, . . as near as I can describe it."
Mary was silent. But I saw she was studying me.
"So! . , you've Broken Through!" she whispered, "You recall I said you
would,"
"Sometimes," I admitted, "I'm scared of what's happened. "It's so horrid-
ly potent. Y/hy, just this morning while waiting for you to come over here tc
lunch, I sat down at my table upstairs in my room and began to wonder where all
this might lead me. Particularly was I troubled about my relations with Marion.
Do you know what happened? I got a forecast . . seemingly out of Nowhere . .
that's too freighted with consequence, too minute and logical, to be any desiring
out of Subconscious Mind. I filled sheets with the writing. And it's not my
own at all, . . I mean, even the penmanship."
"Have you got those sheets with you?"
"Will you pledge yourself to silence about what they contain?"
She told me that she would. I gave her the pages that were folded in my
pocket. "I want these!" she said suddenly.
"Want them? What for?"
"There are profound persons in this city, interested in such research.
They've got to know your story* It'll prove a lot of theories."
"Never!" I avowed. And despite her protesting, I took the pages back.
"Bill, you've got to be sensible about this thing. There's every indica-
tion in the world that you've been selected as an instrument to bring in a rev-
olutionized program of thinking and worshippmg. It's as clear to me as light.
Ever since I've known you, I've felt you woie slated to do something extraordin-
ary, It came to me first during our luncheon at the Plaza. All your struggles
and disgruntleraents were just growing-pains toward something. It's kept my in-
terest in you white-hot. Now that you've passed the threshold of such achieve-
ment you can't reveal your soul as unequal to its trust."
"It's not a question of my soul, I don't think. It's a matter of wisdom,
being effectively discreet."
"Doesn't you Higher Intelligence tell you that I'm right?"
Right there she had me stopped. Mary went along —
"Doesn't it tell in Exodus about God speaking to Moses out on a mountain,
ordering him to go over into Egypt and say certain things to Pharaoh? If my
209
nenory serves ne right, Moses too was silly. Right away he started, to argue
with God. that he didn’t feel up to it, Who was he, Moses, that he should face
Pharaoh and declare what God wanted?"
"I don’t "believe a "bit of it. Just ballyhoo for Jews! Besides, I’n
not Moses."
"No. But your work nay prove quite as inportant." She glanced at the
clock and gave a quick start. "I've got to be getting back to the office. But
you do as I tell you. You cone t
i
p to ny apartnent tonight and we'll both probe
this deeper. I listened while you ranted for a hundred afternoons on how punch-
ing a typewriter was not your life's work. Well, you've gone through The Door
into dazzling Revelation. Now I'll not let a naudlin nodesty attonpt to keep
you little. Will you cone up tonight?"
"Certainly," I told her.
^ 0 STRANGELY had it happened to ne.
I had neither exaggerated nor talked balderdash to ny literary shepherdess
when I said that no natter what it was, upon which I wished enlightennent, I
had only to relax and the answers cane prodigiously. Where did they cone fron?
I have ny own convictions, but as nan in the bigotry of his present blindness
and envy has not yet evolved to a point where such things are general to hunan-
kind everywhere, the wiser course is silence till he nakes his own discoveries.
I maintain that in the five nillion words of converse which I have since nade
available, the evidence bespeaks an origin which squares with ny contentions.
Mary said, at the conclusion of certain demonstrations that evening,
"You ought to be back here in New York — not away off in California — where
you can confer fron tine to tine with people of like attainments. I can name
at random a dozen persons — whon you should know, and who should know you.
This thing nay turn out big!"
"Perhaps I shall cone back," I said, disquieted.
She wont into an adjoining roon and returned with the portrait of a nan.
"Does that resemble anyone you've net?"
I knew a strange jolt. Thereat I faltered, "Is that man 'dead'?"
"He is. But v;ho is he?"
"He's the nan who was v/ith Bert Boyden — or the one I took for Boyden —
that night in Seven Minutes!"
"Sure of it?"
"Positive!"
"That's ny husband's brother. He was accidentally shot by a rookie's
rifle at one of the army camps at the very commencement of the war."
On the fourth evening of ny visit I sat on the divan beside ny gracious
counsellor. Across our laps was a big sheet of writing-board, with paper and
pencils.
"Go back to California at once," was the writing subsequently prbdueod
between us. "Go tomorrow . . at two-forty o'clock . . taking the Empire State
Express!"
"Bother!" I exclaimed. "I can't get away as early as that. I've got
editors to see, appointments to keep -
- "
"Drop then all and GO! If you fail to go, you'll always be sorry."
Mary said, "What's the meaning of that? Is something going to happen?"
"It looks so," I said, "though I can't make out what."
Forthwith I argued with this Higher Intelligence . . v?hatcver it was.
I would go the day following. I would go the next evening. None of these would
answer. I must take the Empire State Express for Albany next day for if I ne-
glected, ny arrival would be all wrong when I got to the Coast.
I left New York next day.
The following Friday at one-thirty I stepped fron the trans-continental
train onto the platform of the Pasadena station. There v/as no one to meet no
210
for I had not announced ny coning. I went up to ny office. "Is everything all
right here?" I asked Mrs. Jnnison. "Quite all right," she answered, startled
by ny appearance. "Everything all right up to the "bungalow?" She nodded too
at that. "A1 Burke looked in up there last night. Why? What's the natter?"
Had this new talent failed ne? Had I nade the tedious journey across
a whole continent through sone sort of hoax? I went over to the gar<age and
got ny car. I drove down to Mrs. Shaw's where Helen was keeping Laska. Katie
cane out at ny appearance in the yard.
"Bill Pelleyl" she cried. "Helen was positive you'd be here today!"
"She couldn't have known. I didn't advise a soul."
"Can't help it. She knew it. And you'd better drive down to Po.nona as
fast as you can go."
"Ponona! What for?"
"Day before yesterday her nother had a fall. Helen's down there tending
her. The nother's not expected to live through tonight."
So! That was it! And sonehow or other I had known about it sonething
like four days before Mrs. Hansnann*s a.ccident! . .
I got down to Ponona.
Mrs. Hansnann passed at three minutes to six o'clock — and a na.tter of
twenty ninutes before I drove up to the house . ,
Later that evening I drove Helen back to Pasadena for things that would
be necessary for the funeral on Tuesday,
"I've made up ny nind to close the bungalow," I told ny Goldon Head that
evening. "I'n returning to Manhattan. I’m going to get a group around ne and
probe these higher spiritual mysteries down to the lowest bottom. I've got to
know then adeptly, professionally — all there is to know about then — before
I dare reveal that I'n concerned with then at all."
CHAPTER THREE
A T TEN ninutes to twelve o'clock of a midweek forenoon in the February
/
— \ that followed, I walked into Mary's office.
J j "I've brought you a manuscript," was ny conventional announcement. And I
laid it on her desk. She had put on her hat for the midday pause for eating.
"A new story?" she asked carelessly.
"Yes, it's a story. A sort of story. It's the story of ny night's ex-
perience in ny Altadena bungalow."
"What!"
She dropped into her chair, unmindful of her hat. I twirled ny stick
and waited. One page, two pages, three pages, she road. Five. Ten, Fifteen.
Up she sprang from her desk and sped down the corridor.
She was gone forty ninutes.
When she cane back, she had Merle Crowell with her. Merle was red-eyed,
I knew ho had been mopping. "Bill Pclley," he said, "you've written the story
of the century. I'n .wiring our printing-plant in Ohio to stop all presses till
this manuscript can reach then."
Lunch was forgotten for Mary that day. It was the hour of her supreme
justification for call that she head held for ne. Speaking for myself, I was
altogether startled by what I had uncorked. I said to Mary privn.tely, "I wrote
thatr manuscript in a couple of hours this norning, over in the Commodore. It
should be rewritten . . "
"You'll not change a comma! You've struck off your masterpiece. We nay
have to cut it here and there to make it fit oxactly the story its displacing.
But I mean to do it personally,"
211
"It'll probably mean ny finish as a writer of fiction."
"Oh . . fiction!" cried Mary scornfully. She added a minute later,
"And Lindbergh night have said it meant his finish if his plane had gone down
in the ocean. But it didn't go down in the ocean. It went down upon that fly-
ing-field in Paris. I guess you're not dumb. What convinced you at last this
story should be written?"
"In my room this morning I was crossing from my bath to ny bag for clean
linen. It came that I should do it in a . . flash of realization!"
"So? Go back over to the Commodore and get yourself some more of those
kind of flashes."
"I'm going back over to the Commodore and get myself some quinine. I
feel rotten," I said. "The flashes I'm feeling have nothing to do with liter-
ature."
By ten o'clock that night I was running a fever. The abrupt change from
California sunshine to Manhattan in February had changed a cold to flu. New York
was full of flu, a regular epidemic. Mary phoned me at midnight, "I've tried
all over this town to get you a nurse. There's not one to be had."
"No natter," I said. "I'll get along somehow. The hotel physician's
keeping an eye on me."
For a week I lay wracked by hot needles and cold icicles. At ten o'clock
of the sixth day cane a rap at ny door. I thought it was the doctor, but little
I cared. "Cone ini" I called weakly.
The door responded.
For an instant I was certain that ny sickness had reached delusions.
My Golden Head cane i
n'
. . .
"Of all the monkeyshines!" she greeted me. "To cone to New York and
end up here helpless!"
"Where . . d-did you drop from?"
"Mary called me long-distance last Monday night. She said you were ill
here and I'd better cone quick."
"I'll kill that pretty red-head!"
"You'll be killing yourself if you don't let me fix you."
Off came the cape I know so well. Off cane the hat. Bags started open-
ing, Strange bottles flew out. I was dosed. I was compressed. The hotel
flunkies were blistered for letting my room roach such a condition. My Golden
Head was sputtering . . at hotels . . hotel physicians . . at Now York . . at
male stoicism When ny Golden Head sputtered, the shibboleth was Action.
Mary appeared at six o'clock. The pair of them went into a huddle like
sisters. I was brought from that illness as though by a magic.
And ny Golden Head stayed. Indeed, and why not? I might get sick anew.
Such was her contention.
r
,SKEEN Fifth and Sixth Avenues, on the south side of 53rd Street there is a
& row of bra*nstone houses. On the second floor of Number 56 I found exactly
the apartment that was suited to my needs. Presently from Altadena cane rugs,
chairs, pictures. Draperies went up. My books found new shelves. There were
two high-ceilinged rooms — with a kitchenette between. The front room was
lofty, spacious. I made it into an artful living-room. The room behind was my
chamber and writing-room. It was sunny and quiet. Helen found rooms at the
Allerton Hotel for women on Lexington Avenue. New York was not unfamiliar to
hor. She had gone from Bellevue Hospital on that war hitch in Russia,
Now began one of the strangest interludes in ny life — a solid year of
experimentations in mystical research.
I slowly compiled one of the best privato libraries in New York on mat-
ters that had to do with capabilities of spirit. Y/hat could man do with his
212
tody? v
T
i
i
n
t marvels could consciousness perform outside of the human "brain?
what natural forces which man had not coded, were there in existence, that
when properly understood would open up new fields in religious research? I
ranted to know.
Christ had said, "The things that I do, ye shall do, . . yet greater
things than I do shall ye do, if ye "but "believe on me!" Was He referring to
mystical marvels far ahead in the cnnturies? or after men got out of mortal
life? or right here in the present when proper and sensible explorations had
made the supra-natural, natural?
I had persons up to my flat endowed with strange capabilities for vaca-
ting the body and traveling to a distance without demise of the physical re-
sulting. I tested out for my own satisfaction many of the theories of Sweden-
bourg. After ’Seven Minutes in Eternity’ appeared in the current number of The
American — with a flood of inquiring mail resulting in thousands of letters —
persons who had undergone strange and unexplainable experiences in their own
lives, commenced to seek me out, to give me the details, to ask for explana-
tions. Here was an avocation that struck to the very core and roots of human
life. Here was a pursuit that opened a Vast Book to terrified, blundering,
circumscribed humanity. What calling could bo nobler?
Of what I discovered I could do with my own organism during this period,
I have written too much elsewhere to burden these pages with necromantic repeti-
tion. People who know absolutely nothing about these natters, or who have been
terrified into shunning everything that is above the common understanding of
the masses, might misinterpret many of the results of my findings. That I had
either a gift, or a source, from which I could obtain specific intimations
about occurrences that lay in the future, was so many tines demonstrated that
ny friends ceased to naxvel. That I was recording the most abstruse papers
and monographs on natters tha.t up till then were accounted a
.
s life's supreme
'mysteries' was evidenced by the transcripts of those monographs themselves.
Men who tried to explain all the phenomena in human life on the materialistic
or biological basis, went from my premises shaking their heads. They had seen
what they had seen. They had hoard what they had heard, They had rea.d what
they had read. How to account for it? They could not account for it. So the
devil must be in it. Did they not say of My Lord nineteen centuries in the
past, "Joseph’s son hath a devil?"
Sir Conan Doyle wrote me after Seven Minutes appeared, "Nevermind what
you say, Pelley, you’re a Spiritualist," he said. I wrote ba.ck to him heated-
ly, "I’m not a
. Spiritualist. I believe in theUniversality of God the Father,
but that doesn't make me a Universalist. I think every congregation should be
an independent body unto itself, but tha.t doesn’t make me a Congregahionalist,
I'm a philosopher engaged in finding out what the human soul is, what it can
do, whether personality survives that confusing state called Death. Just be-
cause I agree that Mind has supreme control over body, that doesn't make me a
Christian Scientist, and I refuse to be labeled a Spiritualist."
Soon they had no lecturing down to Hyslop Foundation. A publisher ap-
proached me to issue Seven Minutes in book form. Every esoteric society in
the Hew York territory solicited mo to come and speak to them. Soon I was dis-
covering that in ny researchings and recordings, I had not only encompassed
what was known upon these subjects, but was advancing far beyond then. One
night I repeated a paper to Helen in pure Sanskrit. I had never studied Sans-
krit and neither had she. She recorded the words phonetically. Two Sanskrit
scholars translated the sounds, and each without knowing the other had done so,
forthwith produced the sane interpretations . . concerning events to cone in
America in this era now upon us. Exactly as Swedenbourg had done concerning the
great fire in Copenhagen — although he was miles away at the time with no means
213
of connunication, seeing it happen and reporting fully its details — I could
upon occasion project some mystical part of myself and visit far distances, to
be seen "by friends who recognized me, and who cane hack reporting what they had
seen. Witnesses to such experiments in New York acknowledged that the details
checked with all which I had told thon. How was it done? I could not say my-
self. I was merely pioneering in vast fields of human thought belonging to the
future. Whereupon, without desiring these lines to appear in the least bom-
bastic, I found that the aftermath of Seven Minutes had endowed me with another
strange faculty, I could take a piece of old jewelry in my hand and accurately
give a report of its history, frequently describing persons who had worn it. I
could handle a handkerchief or bit of clothing and know accurately all there was
to be known about that person, including some of the most intimate affairs of
their lives. There are literally thousands of people in all parts of America,
who have witnessed me do these things, and can attest that I write truthfully.
In April of 1930 I was called to lecture before the Psychiatrical Board
in Dartmouth College upon some aspects of Insanity. Present in my audience
were learned physicians and superintendents of New England asylums and senator-
runs. One astounded doctor sought me out after my discourse — which lasted for
two hours — and demanded, "Where can I get this thing? If I knew what it’s all
too evident that you know about the causes and processes of soul phenomena, I
could cure half the patients over in my Nut Pern in a matter of weeks. I’ll cone
to New York and live with you, I’ll pay you anything, . . only give this knowl-
edge to me! It’s a boon to all humanity!"
I mention th4se facts, I say, not to toot my personal saxophone but be-
cause they are personal attestments of the veracities of my studies.
The nail which promptly resulted from two millions of people reading
My Seven Minutes in Eternity was the most poignant — and of{tines tragic —
thing which had ever come before my notice. My soul was shaken to its very
depths. Thousands of persons had had such experiences, I learned, but had kept
mute about them, fearing the derision or vengeance of the orthodox. Thousands of
others wrote me, imploring me to go further and write more upon my studies, to
give them the consolation that scientific discovery and accreditable research
turned up to them.
I was suddenly sobered as never before in my life had I been sobered.
The poor befuddled human race was one great human miasma of buffeted, terrified
little children, bamboozled by quacks, played upon my theology, made frenzied
by uncanny experiences to which it in no wise had the key. Could a man devote
his life to any more worthwhile or meritorious calling than fearlessly explor-
ing such Grand Canyons of human knowledge? . .
And yet, throughout it all, I knew that such studies must remain an
avocation. Such was not the main business for which I had entered life.
I perceived it all plainly.
These great gifts which had somehow or other been heroically alloted me
were for quite another purpose.
Incarnate in human life were great malicious entities — almost literally
the fiends of history — haters of The Christ and all His works .
— thought to be
nen in that they went about their business speaking and acting in the bodies of
nen, yet present in life to give The Christ contest, to pull down and destroy
all that science, and art, end ethics, and religion had been patiently, patient-
ly building throughout the centuries. The human race knew naught of these. It
thought their malicious actings only political or economic vagaries. But those of
of us being entrusted with the Deeper Knowledge discerned them accurately.
Our job it was to challenge them, to bring them to a vanquishing!
That was the Mission to which we had set ourselves. And because we were
valiant enough to stand our ground and do it, such was the equipment given unte
our employments . .
2 1 4
I tried to dismiss my mystical inquirers with a hook, expounding in a
fiction story what great action and reaction occurred in the phenomena of life
and death. I called it 'Golden Rubbish' . . and it was published by Putnam* s
in the summer of 1930. But at once came the yowl of organized orthodoxy. Who
was I, that I should use great publishing houses like The Crowell Publishing
Company, or George P. Putnam's Sons, to propagandize the nation on "discredited
Spiritualism"? . . Things began to happen. The American Magazine suddenly had
a new editor. Merle Crowell "resigned" . . Mary got her walking papers. Into
the chair so able filled by John Siddell — who declared that the American people
were interested in just three subjects, Love, Business, and Religion, and the
greatest of these, religion — came a Jew by the name of Blossom. Blossom, I
was told, came to the position from a concupiscent New York tabloid. Forthwith
ny long association with The American Magazine ended. "No more of that spirit-
ual rot!" seemed to be the order. Forthwith the great American Magazine, al-
most a spiritual institutian in the lives of our people, became "just another
magazine", filled up with stories of golf, motoring, money-grubbing, articles
by incipient Communists, or the brashest of Jew propaganda. As for George P,
Putnam's Sons, 'Golden Rubbish' was given just one edition, then dropped like a
hot potato. Every Jewish book reviewer in the nation descended on the novel
with hot picks and spiked boots. No more of that in books, either! What the
American people must be given was not explorings in mystical Christianity, but
ballyhoo on the beauties of various forms of atheistic Communism.
The serial 'Dark Happiness', done in two nights and a day, was practi-
cally the last piece of work which I did for The American. But somehow I was
indifferent. Regardless of how organized orthodoxy clamped down upon me, or
jittery Judah did all within its power to keep men of ny attainments from gain-
ing the public ear lest we divulge what Judah was about in this hemisphere, I
had caught a glimpse of the ghastly heartbreak that existed within the rank and
file of starved,: hoodwinked, befuddled, terror-stricken men and women of this
nation in the response which had greeted my widely-read article in the recent
American. What a piteous muddle human life was in! What a tragic hoax was be-
ing put over on millions by keeping frenziedly from then any of these great
and beauteous truths of existence that would go so far toward making life en-
durable! Once in the Altadena bungalow, Helen and I had ministered to three
terrorized little boys. Now I was perceiving that most of humanity was just
similarly terrorized — - buffeted, suppressed childhood that knew not where to
turn for radiance in its darkness. The sane spirit of contrite desire to minis-
ter, came to me now with an insistence that was terrible. Plato tells of Socra-
tes, in his final dialogue with Crito, of "the oracle within me that ever tells
ne those things I should not do without informing me of voluntary actions" , .
I knew what Plato meant* I felt that I knew of what Socrates was speaking. I
too had "an oracle within me" and it was saying not to idle in such consolations
yet awhile. I had a stronger brevet.
f'iNE NIGHT in August, 1929, it was, that I had more revelation . .
v
~/
' As we got along into 1929 I had formed an inner group of seven that met each
F rid a y evening at the home of some kindred investigators who lived on Riverside l
Drive. Each Friday evening at the conclusion of dinner, Mary usually called for
Helen and myself, and took us up to Mrs. Leslie's in her car. Each person in
that group was possessed of some talent expounding the supra-natural.
On the evening of which I write, we were preparing to depart when the
phone-bell whirred suddenly. On lifting the receiver, Mary's voice greeted ne.
"I'm going to be detained for an hour and a half," she said. "Will you wait
till nine o'clock and all go up as usual? or will you and Helen take a cab and
I'll meet you there later?" I said that we would wait. She had already called
215
our friends on the Drive, And without her the group would be incomplete any-
how, Helen had cone over from her hotel in a frock. V
i
'
e had ninety ninutes of
tine on our hands. "Why not put it in, doing sone recording of The tfisdon?"
she suggested.
So she got out her pad and bunch of sharpened pencils. Day after day for
months I had relaxed in a chair and dictated thousands of similar pages to her.
The strange part about this labor was, remarked on by our friends, that though
she began in the morning at nine o’clock and worked with ne till dark, neither
physical weariness nor writer’s cramp attended on these efforts. How to explain
it? It was another natural law that load not yet been coded.
I threw myself down in evening clothes and stopped my thinking conscious-
ly. Presently cane "the voice of the oracle" . .
"This unusual delay tonight is not a natter of chance," Helen wrote. "Be-
fore you visit Mrs. Leslie on this, your final neeting, there are things to be
known that have hitherto been veiled — veiled with a purpose. Prepare to write
strange statements."
Deeper and deeper I sank into reverie. Clearer and clear cane the reason-
ing Intelligence . .
"First, it night be well to acquaint all your friends now speculating in
the stocknarket that nothing which they could do would be more discreet than to
cash in on their winnings and get then out in money. Either in money or in
government bonds, since government bonds as of this present issue will be the
only securities which will maintain their value after the horrible debacle ahead."
"Debacle!" cried Helen . .
"Don’t interrupt!" I cautioned her. "Nothing we've recorded to the moment
is of greater importance than this script we’re now writing . . "
Thereat she wrote further . . " — because on or about October fifteenth
of this year there is coming a cra,sh upon the bourses of the world that will
pull down all peoples into seven years of famine. A vast effluvia of evil
spreads across all nations. Great commercial concerns will go bankrupt, labor-
ers will be turned out laborless in millions, all banks will close! . . and sone
of the darkest and most terrible monsters incarnate now in life will spread out
their satanic clutches for the prosperous United States. It is time for you to
know now that you are to function in this crisis. That is your chief errand,
your main business in this life . . ____ _
"You will head up this nation before you die, in the greatest revalua-
tion of human ethics since the Protestant Befornation!"
H A BE you sure your understanding correctly?" Helen whispered hoarsely.
I answered, "Never was the <7isdom more vivid in its clearness!"
She persisted, "What can it mean, 'head up this nation’? Does it mean you'll
be President?"
"Yes and no," I answered, "Wait and write the rest of it. I think it
will be detailed,"
" . . hear the Prophecy and know it for its value! . , within a year or
thereabout you will find yourself at the head of a great spiritual movement that
shall spread across this nation. But that is not of account, since it only pre-
pares the minds of certain leaders to step from the mass and proceed to function
with you. Within two years or thereabout, you will find yourself sitting with
the heads of government behind the government in Washington. There you will
learn the most intimate details of the Great Conspiracy against Christian lives
and institutions. Mon will come into your affairs who will help you to become
the land's outstanding authority in the plotting of the Dark Ones. But that is
preparation. In three years or thereabout, you will find yourself at the head
of a national vigilante organization, a quasi-military force, which you will
216
project and "bring to strange flower. But not as men night hope. Not as you
yourself night conceive at its inception. Vast overturnings of society oust
cone first. Man will "
b
e assailed as he has never been assailed. Forces will
seize hin of whose evil he has snail conception. There will cone a tinein
this nation when Christian Constitutionalism shall hang by a thread. Strong
arns and stronger hearts nust function in that interlude . .
"When will it happen? . . listen to the Tine . .
"Over in Europe at this nonent exists a young Austrian .
. by trade he
is a painter . . he is coning to the head of the German people . .his work is
not as yours, for his is strictly political, . . yours is political but spirit-
ual as well. He will becone the great power in Central Europe. That power of
his nay extend over Russia, overthrowing there the Legions cf Darkness. The day
that this nan ascends into the chancellorship of the German people, do you take
it as your tine-signal to launch your organization in America!"
"Whoever can it mean?" Helen bethought to question, A pause cane in her
writing,
"Wasn’t there a chap who was an Austrian painter, thrown into jail for
trying some sort of putsch with Ludendorff?" I asked. "But go on writing . .
there's nore to this Script."
" . . God has queer ways of Calling men," was Helen's next recording.
"When the work is great, or terrific, or unusual, He sometimes lets then know
in advance . . particularly when they must rely in crises on aid above the mor-
tal. You will project your organization on the day that the Austrian becomes
German chancellor. But a time of trouble and struggle will follow. You will
be attacked. Your body will be seized. From ocean to ocean your name will be
villified. You will be accused of crimes which you have never committed. You
nay possibly be mobbed, You nay possibly be shot at. As the forces of evil
strive to extend their control across this country, stifling all liberty, bring-
ing woes upon millions that they nay become subservient, they will indict you
and hound you. You nay be hunted like an animal. But take courage and take
heart. It is all on the Program, You will not be afraid because you will be
forearmed with knowledge , . knowledge which your enemies never can censor."
Naturally this sort of thing actualizing in my super-consciousness un-
nerved no for the moment. How was I, a fiction-writer in a New York flat, ever
to so commend myself to the nation that such things could cone to pass? But
the "oracle" went on . .
"Out of the Seven Lean Years the effluvia will climax. The Dictator
will cone. But his life will be short-lived. America will be bankrupt down
to the bone. Larders will be empty. Hones and farms will be seized. As that
climax approaches, you will write a great book. It will show the frenzied and
harassed human race how a better order nay be realized, how evil can be curbed,
how lifefc dark master-forces shall be circumscribed themselves and ultimately
brought to ruin . ,
"Nine years it will be your coamission to lead in the installation of
this greater economic order, as The Golden Age cones in. On March 4, 1945,
your political labors will be finished. Thereafter, if you have served as you
are expected, seventeen years will be permitted you . . to travel , . to write
. . to edit . . to set up those great institutions for spiritual explorations
that now seen enticing pastime . . Go forward therefore, sure and calm and
free, knowing that nothing can harm you, that you cannot be injured, that you
have your task to do and will do it!"
On and on ny Golden Head wrote, at times following my somnolent voice
so furiously that she threw filled p,ages off upon the rug. The oracle spoke of
the mysterious "German chancellor", of what some of his lives had been in the
past — without ever mentioning his name! — of the task he had assumed, to
217
lead all the nations in the world in the cooping of the world’s international
marplots, even as I was supposed to lead in setting up constructively that tet-
ter order of human relations to te called The Commonwealth . .
"Tomorrow," wrote Helen further, "go to that bookstore with which you
have relations. Inside the door at the lefthand side you will find a table
with a green baize top. On the baize are four books. The figures on the
price-tag are 1-9-5-0. Acquire that set of books. Bring it home to your lib-
brary. Read them as a Bible. You will presently see why. Promptly on complet-
ing your study of them, you will take four months of papers . . specific papers
. . papprs that translate The Christian Commonwealth. Script after script,
preachment after preachment, you will inscribe on mystic order. And when you
have finished, you will know what the future contains, what your epochal book
contains that does the thinking for a continent, what you must do specifically
to act in your great place."
I lost all track of the passage of time. On and on wrote Helen. I asked
about this "dictator" . . when would he come?
"At the ’fall’ of a great public nan," said the oracle.
"Who was the public man?" I persisted. "Was it Hoover?"
"No," said the ’oracle’, making a subsequent statement which I have
never forgotten, "one comes in between!"
W
HIRR’ went the doorbell . .
We glanced at the clock. The tine was 8:50 . ,
Ninety minutes had gone as by magic. Helen gathered up her papers from
the rug as I answered Mary’s summons. We went down to the car,
"What’s the nattor with you?" asked Mary as we drove across Central Park,
"why so solemn all of a sudden?"
"My oracle has been giving out some strange predictions tonight," I par-
ried. "Helen and I have just taken a recording that sort of knocks me up."
"What sort of recording?"
I concluded to tell her everything. I did not omit that reference about
ny job — the Big Job — that embraced the salvation of a culture, "Well," I
prompted finally, our destination ahead, "what do you think of it? Do you think
that any such thing is ahead for myself?"
"Bill," said Mary solemnly, "I’ve known something of the sort was ahead
for you, ever since I’ve known youI"
CHAPTER FOUR
f^HAlL I ever forget the unfoldnents of that evening — even those unfoldnents
\. to which I subsequently listened?
w' Our hostess was a remarkable gentlelady who had lived out in India and stud-
ied with the pundits. Her agate eyes kept on mo as I entered the room,
"Wheel" she exclaimed. "What a revelation!"
I asked her what she meant.
"You’ve had one, haven't you? , . tonight before coning here?"
"What makes you think so?"
"I see it in your aura. Now I understand . . much!"
This was operating on a stratum of Intelligence that the average nan will
blink at. But I’m telling him, such things happen! I sat down in the place
whore I usually sat. And Mrs. Leslie continued to regard me. Soon that astound-
ing clairvoyant eye of hors was functioning . .
"Seven years'." she whispered. "Seven lean years’
. . . seven years of in-
human strugglo and heartbreak . . seven years of talking and preaching and ,
r
-
rit-
218
ing . . seven years of enduring the sneers and libels of ignorant persons, of
carrying tne insults end the clawings of the bigoted upon your flesh, of seek-
ing to bring nan a now vision of hinself and being stoned in the spirit for the
effort. This is what's ahead for you, my friend. You'll try to persuade and
prove to nan that his personality cannot perish and nan will viciously defane
you for your kindness. You'll beggar yourself to warn nan that a fiendish menace
stalks him, that a savage beast waits in anbush to spring upon hin. Man will re-
ward you by calling you a fool. People will cone to you begging you to succor
tnen. You'll help then in purse, you'll help then in spirit. Then when they are
somewhat refreshed fron the plights that had assailed then, they'll turn on you
and point you out to the crowd as a self-seeker, a
. trickster, a plotter for gain,
using their forner relationship to you as their basis for warning the nultitude
against you. Men will see your good works, and instead of glorifying your Father
who is in heaven they'll maliciously applaud when Organized Evil seeks to crush
you, to inprison you, to snash and destroy all that you're so patiently building
up for nan's political and spiritual enlightenment. Seven years of it, I say.
Every nan's hand will be lifted against you. Millions of people will be fooled
or enraged by the calumny directed upon you. You will be called a shyster, a
charlatan, a corrupter of public morals, a breeder of hates and tumults and sedi-
tions. So bitter will be the persecutions turned upon you that you cannot appear
openly in the public places and be known for whom you are, without turmoil and
rioting springing up around you by those who hate The Christ and all Eis works
and agents. In short, there will be a brief period toward the end of the Seven
Lean Years when you will be the most hated and hounded man in the whole United
States, I see you sitting, as it were, on an iceberg, surrounded by a sea of
hostile humanity. Outside of a little handful of your intimates who still be-
lieve in you, you are alone 1 Terribly inhuman is that loneliness to be. But
wait! . . suddenly in center of this frightful isolation, a shaft of light breaks.
Something happens. I can't see what it is, but I get the sense of a national in-
cident. In upon that ocean and that iceberg comes a dramatic flood of radiance.
In a day and a
. night a hostile and hoodwinked people have the mask of their blind-
ness stripped from their eyes. Abruptly they perceive the staggering hoax that's
been played upon then from the very beginning. That iceberg melts! . . between
sunset and sunrise! You lie down to sleep as one of the most hated, most villi-
fied, of men, everyone's hand set against you. You awaken to discover that men
have discerned the colossus of their blundering, and are behind you to a man!
You can do anything with this United States that your whin decrees. The nation
will be as putty in your hands. And you will remold it as a wise and gracious
statesman, so that the evils of the Seven Lean Years can never be repeated!" , .
BUS the evening. And more of it. And more of it.
J Understand me, I do not insert this episode here to prove that there is such
a
. thing as accurate clairvoyance. I give the substance of these occurrences in
ay life as factors in the psychology of my subsequent conduct , [ That there are
persons gifted with Second Sight, the most reliable reportings of history will
attest. When Josephine was a little unknown Creole girl on a West Indian plant-
ation, an aged negress repeatedly prophesied that before her life ended she would
be queen of France. So outstanding was the "seeing" that history has made record
of it. She journeyed to Paris and became in time the Empress of Napoleon. Of
the celebra.ted case of Joan of Arc I need make no mention. People who knew Lin-
coln report that the martyred president knew while a country lawyer in Illinois
that he would be called to head the nation through a tine of vast turmoil, and
later that his life would terminate from an assassin's bullet. Shakespeare
wrote an immortal drama upon the greatest of the Roman emperors based on naught
but Second Sight. Certainly I have lived through enough in the past six years
219
to know the infallibility of Mrs. Leslie's utterings that night, and am now ex-
isting in the seventh year. She was not by any deans a professional seer. Only !
a handful knew of her gifts. Yet without a slip-up, without an exception, every
detail which she predicted that night which could have cone true to the present
has cone true. »7hat can anybody thinK?
Of course the rationalists can cry, "Simple enough! You were told a lot
of grandiose suggestions by your subconscious mind or by sympathetic friends,
and having such ideas implanted in your subconscious you went forth and shaped
your career to conform to then. Now you think it something to marvel at, that
such conduct precipitated the events so 'prophesied'." That's what the ration-
alists can say, and perhaps it gratifies them to have thus explained the universe
by their biological limitations. But why does none among them cone forward and
rationalize the predictions of that night which by no manner of expediency or
self-motivated conduct could possibly have been controlled by me? The stock-
market crash in October for instance. Scores of people now living in New York
will attest that I faithfully warned then what would happen in October. Why
didn't I make it November. December, the spring of 1930? Then that little item
of Hitler. I found out later that the fellow was in jail at the tine of the
prediction. He seemed then to stand no more chance of becoming German chancellor
than I did. What of the item of the set of books in Putnam's? I went there next
day and sure enough, there were the four volumes on the green baize table inside
the door of the bookstore. The set was "The Life of John Marshall" and the price
tag upon it was $19.50. I acquired them, read then as a
. Bible, knew my fundamen-
tals of Constitutionalism as most men know their ledgers. And forthwith I began
to write "inspirationally" the great unfoldnent of The Commonwealth which thous-
ands of people since have marveled at. And what of the remaining prophecies of
that night? In a year "or thereabout" The League for the Liberation had cone in-
to existence and 476 assembles or study groups from Boston to Los Angeles were
engaged in weekly delvings into the esoteric truths I was purveying. In two years
"or thereabout" I found myself living in Washington, D. C., intimately acquainted
and associating with some of the most gracious and enlightened men in our govern-
ment, men who were making a
. trenchant examination of the great Jewish-Bo 1shevist
plot to strike down our nation and who freely shared with me their most intimate
findings. In throe yearns "or thereabout" I wp„s deep in the operations of The
Silver Legion, which was presently to be attacked by the radicals in Congress — [
of which more presently. [There are some happenings in life that we cannot ex-
plain, that we cannot rationalize. We just have to accept them. And so it was
with me. I write these natters as a history, not ns one side of a debate in a
controversy. In a manner of speaking I "knew in advance" most of what was due
to happen here in the United States jn and after 1929. And by the same token, I
maintain I "know in advance" much of what is imminent for America to endure that
has not yet transpired. But alas and alack, people are no more willing or ready
to accredit this knowledge as a mass than they were in the matter of the stock-
market back in 1929. In bitter tears some of them came to me during 1930 and
cried, "Oh if I'd only taken your advice! . . but you know, I didn't take the
slightest stock in this business of Second Sight." And so it goes . .
The stock-market crashed of a day in October, just as the day came three
years later when the jailed Austrian painter stood forth as chancellor of all
Germany. Helen and I worked assiduously throughout the balance of tha.t year and
on into 1930. I sold the screen rights of my novel 'Drag' during this period
for $11,500 and this money somewhat compensated for the injury which Seven Min-
utes in Eternity unerringly had done to my literary reputation. For sure enough,
far and wide people immedia.tely put me down as "a Spiritualistic nut" who had
gone chasing off into bogs of superstition* In February, Larry Giffcn got me a
contract making a series of two-reel drama.s for a movie company on Long Island.
220
This project collapsed before it was begun. No Jewish film company anywhere in
the country would distribute photoplays with my name upon them now. I was al-
ready beginning to be narked as a nan who did not approve of the manner in which
Jews were everywhere succeeding to a petty racial tyranny in ny country. Mary
was out of her job on The American, ostensibly for having aided ne to get Seven
Minutes published. Merle Crowell had gone out to Arizona "for his health" . .
hut day unto day ny nail was growing heavier. Why had I suddenly stopped writ-
ing for The American? Why had I not conplied with the thousands of letters ad-
dressed to ne, bogging more light, more information, on ny spiritual explorings?
People wanted to know. Only those great orthodox institutions that fattened on
human ignorance, and tried to capitalize on human error and heartbreaic, were op-
posed to ne.
One day I announced to Helen, "I'ra not going to try to fight this editor-
ial antagonism from the magazines any longer. Aftor all, I'm not obliged to do
it. The world is wide and this country is free. I’ve won all the honors in the
fiction field for which any reasonable man could ask. If all these revelations
have cone to ne, and people have shown how sincerely they want more enlighten-
ment on what I nay have been endowed to give then, it seens the proper thing to
do to cast all else overboard and make a career as an authority in this new
science of Eschatology. Pray and why not?"
"How do you propose to go about it?" ny First Disciple asked.
"I've always been a publisher. I know the publishing business, upside-
down and through the middle. I think I'll found a publishing house of ny own
that makes a
. business of producing such literature."
On the 25th day of April, after ny return from two heavily-attended lec-
tures — one at Dartmouth College and another in Boston, Mass. — the first num-
ber of a 48-page magazine, 'The New Liberator', appeared. I was its sponsor.
The Program was on! . .
CHAPTER FIVE
“ THREE events of significance attended upon the New Liberator's appearance.
My nother was suddenly stricken with an illness and Helen left New York to
J go to Springfield and care for her. Charlotte Koster, the little Danish
girl who had been ny secretary since returning to New York, took a better-paying
job and Mary Joyce Benner came to work in her stead. Last but not least, I net
Margaret Christie. Of these three, more anon . .
Joyce wa.s the 28-yoa.r-olcl daughter of one Joe Benner, fellow publisher
of esoteric books in Akron, Ohio. She had come to New York many years before
as a director in The Little Theater movement, but with the Depression settling
on the land she now nust turn her hand to a position more lucrative. She was
a slender, willowy brunette with a genius for detail and a sense of the appro-
priate that nca.de her a helper out of a thousand.
Margaret Christie — Maggie, as we came to know her — was a middle-aged
English woman of strong metaphysical leanings who was engaged in the business of
agent for authors, with offices in Madison Avenue. Maggie was a big-bodied,
athletic, go-getting spinster. She cane up to ny apartment as a
. visitor with
some friends one evening and her black eyes snapped with interest behind her
pince-nez as she listened to ny plans for conducting The New Liberator.
"Your talcing too much upon yourself," she declared in the weeks that now
followed. "You can't do all your mystical experinentings and writings and at-
tend to the details devolving on a commercial publisher."
I h<ad mentioned tha.t with the instant approval and support which had
greeted the magazine I wanted to bring out a weighty volume called The End to
221
Commandment, Knowing that my real labors in this period were to he economic and
political, I wanted to produce a compendium of mysticism that shoixld treat all
which had been found out about it, or coded about it, in a constructive, hard-
headed, comprehensive way. With this volume available, I could say to the in-
quirer, "Are you troubled in your spirit about this and that? Withdraw by your-
self and read all that’s in this book. You'll find your quandaries ended.”
Maggie said to me, "Why don't you lock your apartment, get out of New
York for a time, and make it your business to produce such a volume?"
I said, "How about the magazine?"
"I'll run the magazine."
"What?"
"You get out the material to fill it, month by month, in your retreat,
I have offices here and credit with printers. I'll take over the business-end
of the project as trustee. At the end of the year, if the magazine is profit-
able, we'll divide any increment."
I gave this proposal the attention it deserved. But it wasn't the produc-
tion of 'An End to Commandment' which brought my acquiescence. It was the appear-
ance of 'Drag' on all the nation's screens. 'Drag' as a talking picture — one
of the first. The photoplay had not beon running a week before Mary called me
hurriedly. "There's a sheriff been around here looking for you," she exclaimed,
"with a warrant for your arrest!"
"Arrest? What for?"
"For selling mortgaged property, . . something of the sort."
"But I haven't sold any mortgaged property. There must be some mistake,"
"Well, you'd best get in touch with your lawyer at once."
My attorney in New York, ever since the days of The Pelley Press in West
8th Street, had been Conrad Milliken, with offices in the Bar Building in West
43rd Street. Conrad was more than a lawyer: he was also a friend. He was an
esthetic, something of a mystic, with a white mane e.nd profile like a Roman sen-
ator's, I went to him at once.
"It's Stone and Gilpin," he presently reported. "They've heard about
Drag produced as a photoplay. They say you sold rights which you'd previously
assigned to them."
"I did nothing of the sort. I assigned them the stage rights. Screen
rights aro something else, so recognized everywhere. That the play wasn't
staged is none of my affair. The contract I assigned had to do with Frank Crav-
en, not First National Pictures out in Hollywood,"
"Sorry, old man. But the courts have ruled against ypu."
"Ruled against me? When?"
"Stage and screen rights were formerly separate — in that you're quite
right. But with the coming-in of talking pictures a test case was tried in the
State of California. The courts out there ruled that the distinction was ended,
.-.onceforth drama.tic rights were 'spoken' rights, and that took in the screen."
"What should I do?"
"You'd better rustle up about ten thousand dollars and rustle it quick!"
My vitals took a somersault. "Ten thousand dollars? Where can I raise
that?"
"I'm sure I don't know. But I can get you twenty-four hours leeway.
Stone and Gilpin's lawyers mean to have their pound of flesh.
Bitter was the gall then, of those long-deferred notes. The manifest
unfairness of it all, of compensating two men who had caused me one of the major
financial losses of my life, corroded deep. Yet I had to get action. That the
California courts had brought in their ruling be tween the tine of my selling
Drag to Warner Brothers and the date of its appearance as a finished photoplay,
sliced no bacon. I jammed on my hat and went forth to seek my friends,
222
Few such hectic days have I ever experienced. I got a thousand dollars
here, a thousand dollars there. Larry Giffen loaned ne fifteen hundred. George
Putnnn, my publisher, now Amelia Earhart's husband, loaned me twenty-five hund-
red, With what cash I had in the bank at the moment, I completed the payment
and took it to Conrad,
"How does it leave you?" he suggested,
"Broke1
." I responded,
"how about your various California properties?"
"Don't you know that my bankers out there began blackjacking me right
and left when I published 'Seven Minutes1? Men who are fools enough to think
that they die in the night , . and come back to life . , to say nothing of sud-
denly developing 'oracles1 are not good business risks. At least so they decid-
ed, Scores of notes on property were all called at once. And what they didn't
get, the Market Crash did,"
"Humph, . . costing you a pretty penny, isn't it, to be an esoteric
pioneer!"
"It's practically cleaned me clean,"
Conrad smiled a grim smile. He was duly sympathetic, "And yet I hear a
lot of folks going around saying that you're taking up mysticism as a career be-
cause it's so profitable."
"It's cost me between fifty and a hundred thousand dollars to the moment.
Likewise the loss of a twenty-five thousand dollar revenue every year as a
writing man. If that's racketeering, yes I'm a racketeer."
"Do you think you can gain it back?"
"No, probably not,"
"Is it worth it, old man?"
"If I didn't think it worth it, I certainly wouldn't do it,"
I went over to Maggie . .
"If this magazine's going to cone out again," I said, "I guess you'd bet-
ter publish it."
Ve drew up a Trustee Agreement embodying the details. Stone and Gilpin
got their due reimbursement with full quota of interest for all their "inconven-
ience" . .
I locked my apartment — or to be strictly truthful, put my goods in
storage — and got out of New York,
From August to the ensuing January — of 1931 — I lived with friends
in an old Dutch farmhouse over in eastern Pennsylvania . .
CHAPTER SIX
jy
Y MIND was troubled, though my heart knew tranquility. Mentally I per-
ceived that I was engaged as usual in going down, down, down, to the low
arc in my Cycle. But performance had indicated that farflung .about me
was a vast nation of people who eagerly desired what I had to give them richly.
How could I service them? Could a single book do it? Day after day, night
after night, as I labored upon it, living on the ill-spared bounty of my friends,
I thought of the millions that were being squandered on worldly pursuits, silly
foibles, things that The American Magazine under its new Jewish editor, now
touted so crassly. And here was I, sincerely sacrificing everything to give
heart-hungry people such estimate as I could of the Eternal Verities as I saw
then, and becoming a philosopher-pauper for ny pains. True, Mrs. Leslie, and
some others, had declared that this would happen. But it all seemed so need-
less. I didn't want money to support a court of satelites, to live in a man-
sion, to drive a fleet of motor cars. All I wished for was sufficient funds to
2 2 3
tuy the necessities that kept ne alive — and publish shelves of books! Week
unto week, nonth after nonth, Joyce worked for practically nothing on ny manus-
cripts. Due to the pressure of the economic circumstance, my Golden Head could
not rejoin me, After the interim in Springfield, she went down to friends in
boston. She lived with them in Boston till the following September, All of her
life savings had been in those many California properties, which I had seen
wrested when the bankers started after me. I had that sorrow also. Helen had
trusted my every business judgment.' Everything had been healthy, happy, and
prosperous, till I issued Seven Minutes. That was apparently the Sin Unfor-
giveable. I had brought a gigantic message of hope and inspiration to half a
million people. And for it I was penalized.
Not that I pitied myself in the slightest. It was part of the Plan, and
again I was living it. But the world contained great agencies of ignorance,
greed, personified selfishness. The message I brought it, assailed these where
they lived. I must be kept down, impoverished, treated as no-account, else much
that I might write would unsettle their security. Ministers and pastors who
should have had more sense, men whose mission it was to preach the certainty of
After-Life, were mounting their pulpits Sunday after Sunday and declaring me
pariah, a
. na.n whose findings were striking at the very roots of "existing in-
stitutions" — these institutions, of course, being naught but their jobs, Jews
were becoming exercised because my "oracle" was telling on them, what they were
about in this land of their sanctuary from old-world persecution. Men like
Spencer Lewis, head of the Amorc Rosicrucians in California, were giving their
students to understand that the reason for this reversal in my literary career
was because I was "an excommunicated Rosicrucian" . . after the publication of
'Seven Minutes’, I had stopped Spencer Lewis from capitalizing on it and on me,
inplying to many prospects that I was one of his pupils, that my awakening in
Altndena had arrived through his guidance, that if they took his course they
would duplicate the happening, George Putnam got me in his office a.nd flayed
ne verbally for sacrificing one of the most profitable literary careers in
New York for my "mystical nonsense" , , he felt that I had bilked him by writing
'Golden Rubbish’ and getting him to publish it. Mary was hunting a position but
she, like myself, was known for the "foolishness" of printing ’Seven Minutes',
we were birds of a feather and should be properly penalized. Even the publish-
ers of The American gave it out that the response to 'Seven Minutes' had not
been extraordinary . . then regardless of the fact that copies of the magazine
containing the article were selling for as high as $5 apiece and that the issue
had sold clean, they immediately turned about and contradicted themselves by
saying, "Publishing that article by Pelley was the one great mistake of which
this firm was guilty — had we responded to the interest aroused by Seven Min-
utes, we might have beon forced to turn The American into a metaphysical period-
ical, or at any rate boost Pelley all out of proportion to what he deserved.
After all, this country holds other writers quite as good as Pelley. We can’t
let him get so popular that our readers demand him." Those identical statements
were made in my hearing at a luncheon given in East 67th Street one noontime,
by the Managing Editor of The American personally. Later he wanted to punch me
in tho nose for connecting Mary’s name or discharge with the article.
Yes, such things bothered. They were growing pains in my newer develop-
ment. I was building my real career, though I could scarcely see it, and such
griefs and upsets were the living materials. So autumn slipjjod away into win-
ter. And 1930 was cancelled from the calendar. I sent consignments of manus-
cript up to Maggie faithfully, For several months arunning, finished copies
cane back. But when Christmas arrived and the December issue had been mysterious
ly delayed, I hopped on the train and went over to Hew York. Maggie rebuked ne:
"Go beck to your knitting and let me do the worrying. Our printer's been
224
involved in the crash of a bank here. The magazine's delayed but it will cone
out presently,"
I took her word for it, and went back to Pennsylvania,
But January cane and with it no issue. This tine I borrowed a friend's
automobile, and money for gas, and drove across New Jersey, Joyce Benner went
with me. It was a question with Joyce, how much longer she could stick , .
"I'n sorry, Bill," said Maggie finally. "The magazine's no-goi"
"You nean it's not paying?"
"I haven't been able to neet expenses since the day I took it over,
I've kept the truth from you so you could do your book. How's the book coning?"
"Nevermind the book. Is the publication bust?" My soul was now sick-
ened by thought of those subscribers . ,
"There's exactly ten dollars in the bank. You've had eighty-five dollars
since you've been over in Pennsylvania. That's ninety-five you get, and I get
the losses — because I'll write you a cheque for the ten dollars and call the
thing quits."
IOYGE followed me dovmstairs and we stood on the curbing. It was a nurky win-
J ter's night. A cutting zero wind cane sweeping up the Avenue. The windows
about us were furry with hoarfrost. I fingered the ten dollars — one banknote
in my pockot.
"Well," I said to Joyce, "I guess it's the end of metaphysical 'exploring
And yet . . I feel funny. Sonething's not right!"
"What makes you think so?"
I shook my head befuddled. I could not accredit that a magazine which
had started off so brilliantly had flunked it in five months.
My 'oracle' was trying to tell me something, but I angrily shut my ears!
"Well," sighed Joyce sadly, "we've got to get action. You've got to
live. I've got to make sone money."
"I'll give you this banknote . . when I've taken out the gas that gets
ne back to Lunberville,"
"I don't want that banknote. I wouldn't take it on a bet."
The chill wind cut through us. Joyce had her fur collar up against one
cheek. . ,
"HEY, BILL'." cried a voice.
Both of us turned.
Approaching up the sidewalk was a fellow we both knew. He greeted us
effusively. "When did you folks get into town? Where are you staying? Will
you be here overnight? Suppose we ho.ve dinner somewhere together, then we'll
go up to my flat. I've finished a new play. You've both got to hear it."
Listening to amateur playwrights read plays in our two states of mind
was a trifle insufferable. Yet the dinner talk lured us. Dan was a rusty-
conplexioned follow, New Yorker to his fingertips, whom both of us had net at
a mystical gathering. He .like Mrs. Leslie had the gift of Second Sight . .
Wo went out to Fifth Avenue and took a 'bus northward. A few minutes
later we were cheering our spirits with a cosy dinner in a 58th Street restau-
rant. Bit by bit he got my story. He looked at me queerly and thereafter was
tnoughtful. As I have remarked elsewhere in this narrative, the smallest in-
cidents sometimes throw the biggest switches.
We listened to his play, a lusty grate-fire warning us. I tried to de-
termine what it was about, but my thoughts were in ny future . . what was I to
do? I had wrecked myself as a writer. I was deeply in debt to Giffen and Put-
nam, Sooner or later those subscribers would be fretful. And a bitter wintry
drive in an open motorcar was facing no before another day's dawning.
It v/as past ten o'clock when Dan .'lanced at ne through squinted eyes and
225
asked, "Have you ever had a woman named Rose in your affairs?”
"Rose?" I echoed, jolted. "Some three years ago I knew a
. printer-lady
in Pasadena whose first name was Rose. She printed a magazine which I published
in Hollywood. ”
”HumphJ . . how did you make out with her?”
"Ve ended in a
. fuss . . when I closed ny affairs with my partners in the
project. She'd expected me to buy her shop and I'd refused to go through with
the deal. She was considerably put out*"
"You've got another 'Rose' in your affairs this moment. Listen to this
description!"
He began to describe a woman. I glanced at Joyce. Joyce glanced at me.
He was portraying Maggie Christie, even to the way she did her hair. Dan didn't
know Margaret — not to our knowledge.
I said, "What about this woman?"
"You're as concerned in her affairs — or she innyours — as the 'Rose'
you knew out west. And yet there's a condition . . something about it . . which
you should investigate. She's taking an improper advantage of you somehow. Did
the other 'Rose' do that?"
"I always thought so. She sued me for damages when the proposed deal be-
tween us couldn't be consummated because of my changed finances."
"You look into the affairs of the person I've described . . Now lot's play
a hand of bridge."
Joyce and I found separate friends to take us in that night. I recall that
it was Friday — in'that the next day was Saturday and because of thehalf-day
Maggie did her work at home. At nine o'clock I called her to meet me at the
office. She showed up <
a
t eleven.
Olive Robbins kept Maggie's office open. Olive was an elderly woman
who had first joined in with ny affairs when I engaged her as advance agent for
a New England lecture tour. Olive was stout and fifty, assertive and capable.
She wore her gray hair bobbed and two foot of gold chain dropped down one cheek,
kept her glasses from breakage by attachment to her boson, Olive had formerly
worked in ny uptown apartment helping with the magazine, When I gave it over to
Margaret to manage, Olivo had succeeded to its practical business details.
"Oh, you're back!" exclaimed Olive as I entered next rooming. "So you
stayed in town all night?"
"I've got to seo Margaret on something important. I'm not at a.ll satis-
fied at shutting down the project."
"And I'll say you shouldn't be!"
"What do you mean?"
When Olive waxed wroth, she flounced. She likewise had trouble clear-
ing her throat. She did both things now,
"What I
_ want to know is, what's become of all the money that I've been
depositing as magazine receipts? This paper shouldn't STOP. It's like killing
a lusty baby."
"Lusty!" I echoed. "Maggie said last night that everything was bust!"
"I'd like to know why."
"How much money have you taken in, since I've been over in Pennsylvania?"
"Between two and three thousand dollars! I've saved a duplicate deposit
slip of every dollar taken in." She yanked open a drawer and slapped down before
ne a generous sheaf of slips.
"And how much have you spent?"
"Practically not a cent — that is, on the paper. You got eighty-five
dollars o.nd I've had my salary. What Margaret's done with the rest I don't
know, I don't keep her books."
Two hours later, Margaret strode in. I closed her office door so Olive
226
could not hear. That much was due Margaret.
Two minutes questioning "brought out the truth . .
Caught in the vortex of a cruel dilemma herself — principally due to
the Market Crash — she had tried to carry on in an uncomplaining heroism.
Fearing to worry me with exactly how things stood, she had expected to pull out
by commissions on stories. But the markets were closing. Things were going
whack. The international Jews were preparing America for Communism and we were
mere gnats in that greater diablerie.
Taken solely as a project and stood on its own feet, the magazine had
been so profitable that Maggie had leaned on it — too hard — to carry her over
the cruel hiatus. She had not exactly lied to me. She had simply neglected to
tell the whole truth. "Well,1
1she said tearfully, "what are you going to do to
ne? I just couldn't handle it, with everything at loggerheads."
Nothing is more pathetic than a woman who has tried to succeed to the
utmost of her ability in a business project and faced inhuman reversals.
"Do to you? I'm not going to do anything to you. Just give me back the
nailing list and our trust agreement, that's all. We'll work it out somehow."
I knew she had done her best. At times in my own life I had done my
best . . and it had not been enough .. If I he.ve any criticism for Magaret,
it is for not being frank. But she thought the thoughts that came to her. And
so do you and I . .
At three o'clock the following Monday afternoon Olive cane over from a
call in Forty-Second Street. "I've found some furnished offices that we can
sublet. They're over in Salmon Tower."
"Good! You and Joyce and I vdll form a little corporation. Heroic dil-
emmas require heroic remedies. We'll call it Galahad Press. This mail I've
been examining convinces me that there are people enough about this nation, in-
terested in \vhat we're doing, so they'll put up some capital to start the Press
off. We'll issue a hundred shares of Common Stock,dividing it three ways be-
tween you and Joyce and I. If wo can get authority to do it from the State of
New York, we'll raise our needed funds by selling Preferred Stock. Just enough
to make up Maggie's losses and get the paper floated."
We found a lawyer who would draw the papers. I borrowed forty dollars
from Olive and had some folders printed. The three of us licked stamps. Ten
days Later our a.ddressees responded. The sum of $730 was put in the ba.nk from
stock sales and contributions by the fifteenth of February.
The New Liberator reappeared.
It ran without a stop till I ma,do it a Weekly . .
CHAPTER SEVEN
~pI:ESE details are important , ,
Four years later, in Asheville, North Carolina, I was to be held tip before
J a hill-billy jury and the reports flashed all over the country that I had
been a stock-promoting shyster for having taken those entirely legitimate meth-
ods for treating with a desperate situation. "What money of your own did you
put into Galahad Press?" roared the prosecuting attorney at me. The goodwill of
the magazine, the fecundities of the subscription-list, the writing of it en-
tire — that it might be a magazine at all — was made subservient to the fact
that d had done what a thousand corporation organizers do every week in the year:
floated my project and procured its working capital by sales of preferred stock.
It was this same Galahad Press, and what they did to it when they got me in a
corner, that nearly railroaded ne to States Prison. In my prospectus, however,
I had told my readers frankly, just why I wanted the money, and what I expected
227
to do with it. Stock subscriptions cane in. Subscriptions to the revitalized
magazine poured in. Something like $13,000 we had taken in when we closed our
books that year. The three of us drew only our living expenses out of the re-
ceipts. Everything else went into printed natter. The magazine had printed
but 2,500 copies under Maggie's nanagenent. Under ny own promotion it jumped
to 5,000, then 7,500, then 10,000 copies. And these copies, forsooth, were paid
for in full — at 35 cents a copy.
One Sunday norning, Bob Collier, publisher of Mind Magazine, asked ne to
address his esoteric group at a hall in the upper Forties. The place was packed
and we had a good meeting. After it was over, the usual congratulators crowded
about the platforn. One nan put forth his hand and as I glanced into his face
I thought that ny eyes were playing ne tricks. "You renenber ne?" he sniled.
How could I forget hin.
It was Sunner Vinton!
"It's a long long way back to that night on Asana Volcano," I suggested,
"Indeed it is," said he. "I want to talk to you sone nore about this
thing. It's altogether . . trenendous!"
"Where have you been keeping yourself these past ten years?"
"I've been right here in New York — working on The Golden Rule Founda-
tion and living over in Rosedale, N. J."
"Cone up and lunch with ne tomorrow," I begged. "'We'll talk over our ex-
periences . . in the Far East and elsewhere."
The next noon Sunner cane.
-fHIS thing's got to be carried to the masses in the proper way," he said.
•
* "It's not enough to publish a magazine. You've got hold of a doctrine that
would revolutionize nan's thinking."
I shrugged ny shoulders. "I've got just one pair of hands and two women
helpers," I replied. "I know it's not enough, just to publish a magazine. Al-
ready ny nail is heavy with letters — from Boston to California — telling ne
that the writers are recognizing I know a lot nore than I'n publishing every
month and why can't sone arrangement be arrived at, whereby the deeper phases of
what ny Oracle's telling ne is conveyed to those people prepared to receive it?"
"Give ne all the literature you've published or written to date," Sunner
begged. "I've spent ny life as an orthodox minister, or as a nissionary to the
heathen. Now for the first tine, in ny fifty-odd years, at last I've got hold
of sonething spiritual that I can get ny teeth it. I want it to help others as
it's already helped ne."
I gave Sunner what he wanted and he presently withdrew. Before he re-
appeared at the office the following week, a letter cane from Washington, D. C.
"This doctrine of Spiritual Liberation that your preaching," it read,
"is one of the epochal things of the century. People have got to get it. Why
can't you prepare a series of weekly monographs or scripts . . perhaps a complete
progrnn for a meeting . . and give it to those who night care to get a group of
neighbors or friends around then, to receive the profounder phases of the Message
I, for one, would be cheerfully willing to defray ny share of the expense."
Sunner cane back and I showed hin the letter. I showed hin two dozen
letters just like it. "That's exactly what I nean," he agreed when he read then.
"But if I started that sort of thing, it night grow out of hand. At the
most it would need an executive to watch it, concerned with little else,"
"I'd be willing to give part tine to it — - at least till it got started."
It pronised to be an expedient that would gain ne audiences by the hun-
dred for the nore practical message I had to preach later. Mrs. Leslie's proph-
ecy, that within a year or thereabout I would be at the head of a nation-wide
spiritual movement scarcely entered ny head when I finally nailod announcements
2<38
to ny magazine's reader-list that I would do the following —
I would prepare 52 programs for 52 weekly meetings, and no more, giving
The Liberation Doctrine in its essence. Once each week I would nail out one of
these to those volunteer leaders who would agree to get a group around then and
read then the Message. I asked no remuneration for these, excepting that a sil-
ver offering should be taken to pay any costs of hall, publicity, or printing and
nailing of the Scripts themselves. If there was money left over from those offer-
ings, the leader could keep half of it and remit us the other half to finance more
promotion. I had a purpose in holding the number down to 52. I knew the greater
politico-economic battle was ahead. It was not ny place to found any cult, or
project any new religion. Who was I, that I should presume to project a religion?
On the week prec eding the 7th of May, I nailed out 30 of these mimeographed pro-
grams. Sumner cane up three days a week and attended to the mail.
On Sunday, May 7th, these first thirty meetings were held in thirty differ-
erent cities throughout the United States. We had to have a name for this union
of instructors thus linked with headquarters.
Someone suggested The League for the Liberation . .
Thus spontaneously, without the slightest conniving on my part, indeed
with somewhat of an annoyance on my own part that I must hold myself to prepar-
ing such programs, The League for the Liberation got under way.
But a month had not passed ere I discerned I had started something.
The thirty first-assemblies first became a hundred. Then they magically
doubled. Sumner resigned from the Golden Buie Foundation. Soon hundreds . .
thousands , . were demanding copies of these weekly scripts which had been heard
from the platform, to take to their hones and peruse at their leisure. Prepara-
tion by mimeograph was quite too elemental. They must be printed — like the
naga.zino — as a regular weekly job. A printer in Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania,
volunteered to do the work at cost. "I’ve dn.bbled in about every esoteric doc-
trine that’s ever boen promoted," he told me, one raining Sunday noontime in my
office. "I’ve got more neat out of one of The Liberation Scripts than in six
months of study in other mystical orders. I recently paid dues of twelve dollars
in one of the Rosicrucian Fellowships, and it hadn't given me as much as I've
found in your weekly programs at thirty-five cents!"
So unwittingly, still slightly annoyed by the interruption to our period-
ical publishing, we began the weekly issuing of the socalled Pink Scripts.
What was the epitome of the program on which I was engaged? My Oracle
had put it thus —
"This is a complete exposition of what night be called a new
world order, religiously, politically, sociologically, building by
a new terminology that which is the essence of a new society, not
conceived by a few men after their own whims but as conceived by
those who are planning that new society from the loftier dimensions
of Time and Space . .
"It encompasses a World Program, beginning with new standards
upon which religious thinking is based as being the starting-point
for the application of a new set of ethical and sociological prin-
ciples, both practical and academic . ,
"This grand work has not been conceived in a day but is the
outgrowth of a
. union of Master Minds who have been many years con-
ceiving and discarding from the fruits of both experience and obser-
vation what is both wanted and needed in an entirely new social pro-
gram for the races. This concept is twofold in principle: Making
man to understand his destiny in both Mortality and Immortality, for
essentially there is but one life, having these two phases
229
P •
So those first few months of the nefarious Depression grew upon us, and
yet The League for the Liberation made progress. How to account for it? Some-
thin.; like 476 of these great Sunday assemblies, sometimes containing from five
hundred to a thousand people each, or these more modest homo study classes, was
our total enrollment as that end drew toward its close. Assuredly people are
not drawn thus to hear things said which have already been said, or to come out
to meetings week after week, in ever-increasing numbers, unless they are find-
ing nourishment for their souls.
And yet I entertained no illusions as to what I was about. Again and
again I was appealed to, that I must crystalize my findings into a church.
Whenever the idea appeared, I squelched it. A church would mean competition
with a hundred other sects, creeds, and denominations, I was not engaged in the
business of adding to the numbers already in existence. I was merely striving
to "sandblast Christianity", to bring back as I could the pristine Christian
message. I knew tha.t over the generations, the Jews had notoriously subverted
the Christian message. Things were put into the mouths of theologians to say
that Christ Himself had not once entertained. Christ had not designated the
Jews as God’s Chosen People. He had scouted the idea that The Father played
any favorites. Instead, He had stood forth and upbraided the Jews "as of the
Synagogue of Satan." Well-meaning Christians had always assumed that in the
instance He was merely indicting the members of the Sanhedrin. They had never
been told that the Sanhedrin in ancient tines was Jewry, it was the high reli-
gious and secular council that directed Jews’ affairs throughout the known
earth. If such supreme officials were of a "synagogue of Satan" then what of
the followers over whom they ruled?
This problem of Jewry was troubling me exceedingly. Mv own esoteric
talents, developing keener t
and keener as practice made then facile, coupled
with contacts I was making with officials in government, were giving me an in-
sight into the machinations of this people that was becoming slightly devasta-
ting, What to do about it? I tried to bide my time. Meanwhile I had a maga-
zine to write and publish, scripts to prepare, letters to answer, a business to
conduct requiring more and more money. Scores of our assemblies were returning
us nothing. We were not in the work for money. We made it a rule never to hold
back the printed matter because a person could not pay for it. Did a person or
a group desire it' enough to ask for it? Forthwith they got it. Far into the
night we frequently labored, to seek our beds with tired backs and brains. For
the benefit of those who have fallen for the libel that I was commercializing
spirituality in this period, lot me say that my sworn income tax reports to
Uncle Sam will show/ that over the past seven years I have scarcely had as much
money to use, derived from my activities, as is commonly paid to an efficient
private secretary. Often I had royalty checks come in, from past books and
stories, I threw these into the general League fund. Once, just before the
infamous bank holiday of 1933, I had $500 sent ne for two stories I had written
under a nondeplune for one of the New York magazines. The money went to settle
the weekly payroll at Headquarters.
Such was the strain I was under, writing, publishing, lecturing, finan-
cing . . making one dollar do the work of six that more and more people might
hear the Message when a chap named KacGrath came in for an interview. "Mac"
had previously been active in Dr. Holmes Church of Divine Science at the old
Waldorf. Hut Dr. Holmes had died, and his group had broken up.
Mac was a lovable .and audacious Irishman, with earnest blue eyes and
typical Celtic grit. Of an age with myself, he had knocked about the world
and knew it like his pocket. Out in the Philipines* he said, certain esoteric
experiences had cone to him that had turned his thinking to aggressive meta-
physics. What did he want in The League for Liberation? He had heard that I
230
was handicapped for funds to keep pace with The League's prodigious growth. He
would make a jot of soliciting affluent New Yorkers and bringing to our efforts
the wherewithal they commanded. We rea.ched an arrangement and Mac began his
canvassing . .
CHAPTER EIGHT
NEASILY I felt that I had not bargained for all the complications that were
now turned my way , .
Vaguely I recalled that over in Greece some three thousand years ago there
had been a metaphysician called Pythagoras. I
. was not aware that although times
have altered and this is the United States of America in the twentieth century,
human nature is human nature and three thousand years is a mere twinkling in
eternity. And human nature does not change in a twinkling. The other day I got
hold of a book on Pythagoras and my heart bled for the man, and what he and his
wife experienced on the Island of Crotona . . You can get a good sketch of the
man in Elbert Hubbard's Little Journeys, I won't burden my pages with his story
when Hubbard has written the story of The League for the Liberation in the Crot-
ona setting so much better . .
Of time for myself I found that I had none. Of moneys for personal re-
creation there was ever the haunting aelf-indictment that poor people were send-
ing me money they could ill-afford, to pay for the scripts because the contents
meant so much to them. This money was merely left me in trust. I took my bare
living expenses, I say, and scarcely a penny beside. Most of my creative writ-
ing was done after full days of answering correspondence, attending to the busi-
ness details of an expanding organization, receiving anterooms full of callers,
finding cash for printers and postage bills, smoothing the ruffled tempers of
workers. Yet now I was not working for myself. I had no mind to defect. A
score of times a day my throat and my heart were very full as I beheld before
my eyes what this Liberation Doctrine was doing to remake peoples' lives. In-
deed, and why not? It had first remade my own . .
Mac whistled in and out of the office most of that hot summer which en-
sued, My heart was wrung for the man, footsore and weary with many rebuffs,
keeping eternally at a thankless job. Now and then someone received him. He
would bring in moderate sums of money for us to use . . ten, fifty, hundred dol-
lar donations . . We put it immediately into more printed matter. We turned
over from forty to fifty thousand dollars' worth of scripts and publications
that first year, of which a fifth to a quarter went out to deserving and appre-
ciative folk for absolutely nothing. And yet I doubt very much if an examina-
tion of our books would have disclosed more than a seventy-five dollar bank
balance on any Saturday night throughout the period. I had lcng-since for-
given Maggie her mis judgments and filled the subscriptions for which she got
the money. Again, why not? I was in this thing for profit of the soul, not
profit of the pocketbook. That wasn't the sort of thing that gave me gray
hair . .
Mac came in one night and his blue eyes were shining. Down on my desk
he whacked a sheaf of securities. I picked them up. Twelve thousand dollars'
worth, "Good Lord!" I gasped,
"A wreath for Little Arthur," he observed.
"Who gave you those?"
"Mrs. Ogden."
"Marie Ogden?"
"Right!" He had a crisp way of saying "Right" . .
I said, "Is she interested in us that much? When she first came in here
231
she thought Christian mysticism was a lot of twaddle. She even made fun of the
friend she accompanied, while the friend bought some magazines."
"Maybe. But she's got this thing and got it hard. There's twelve to
fourteen grand in prime real estate bonds. You're to hypothecate them and use
the money in the work. All she wants is a job . . not for the money, because
she's giving it instead of talcing it. She wants to help."
I was rather weak. I counted them again. There was fourteen thousand
dollars' worth. In my first beda.zzlementI had counted incorrectly. Arthur was
compensated for weeks of fruitless tenacity all in a lump. His manner was sin-
cere enough. And yet it was jaunty. As for me, . . my heart knew a great
thanksgiving. Fourteen thousand dollars coming to us just then was a regal
donation in its printing fecundities. After the strain of the recent months
I let go . . Cod was being good to me, I thought . .
Next day, next week, next month, I wasn't so sure. I took those bonds
to bank after bank, to person after person. It was all summed up by the comment
of a little Jewish broker who ran his thumb disdainfully through the packet and
remarked, "No goot, . . ve get that stuff . . all ve vant of it . . for five
cents on the tollar before this Depression is over!" He tossed themback atme.
A fairly affluent broker-friend went out of his way to get me a bid on them.
"I can get you fifty-five," he reported.
I turned it down.
I didn't think it would be fair to Mrs. Ogden.
"Better lock them away in the safe," I told Joyce. Mrs. Ogden had fol-
lowed up her gift by the suggestion that she would appreciate stock in Galahad
Press for the bonds. Something warned me to be careful. If I had to issue her
fourteen thousand dollars' worth of stock for the bonds, and they sold for fifty-
five or less, I would be giving away the stock for about fifty cents on the dol-
lar. Would that be fair to the other stockholders who were cheerfully paying
par that the work might progress?
Strange to relate, at Sumner's arrangement our magazine was being printed
by a firm down on 23rd Street whose representative in our office was a bland and
affable Scotsman. We owed him quite a bill. He had heard the talk in our quar-
ters about a generous block of bonds floating about the premises. He wanted to
know why we didn't hypothecate them and reduce the account. He asked if he could
bring his partner up to talk to me. They had a proposition to make me. Of
course I would see his partner.
His partner came.
He was a diminutive little Jew with fallen arches and a greasy bald
head. He got down to business.
"You got it a goot racket here," was the way he opened the conference.
"I'm sorry," I contradicted, "it's not a racket."
Tolerantly he smiled, a smile that purported to convoy that all was un-
derstood between gentlemen of sense. "Ve been vatching you," he went on. "It's
printed matter you need to put this thing over big. Veil, ve got it the presses
und you got it the piziness, Vot say ve go partners? Ve giff you all the
printed matter you need und vack up the profits'."
"I'm sorry," I repeated, when I got his full drift. "I don't think it'd
be exactly the thing for a Christian institution like this, to be mortgaged
fifty percent to a Hebrew printing firm."
The man's affability vanished in a twinkling. Typical Jewish rage at
frustration by a Gentile suffused his countenance, "Okay," he said finally when
he saw it was no go. "You got it bonds here. Plenty bonds. No more magazines
until you pay up."
"Well," I said to Joyce, Olive, Mac, and Sumner, when he had departed,
"that's that!" After a time I added, "I'm going to Washington!"
Joyce asked, "What for?"
232
"We've got some fine people, some affluent people, in our assembly down
in Washington. Maybe if I go dovm there and talk with a few of them, I cam ex-
plain our true situation and get the needed help."
It was enough explanation for the office at the moment. In my heart I
knew what I knew. I had to go to Washington because presently I wa.s going to
move there. It was a trifling matter of Destiny . .
So I went to Washington. I went to Washington half a dozen times. I
met our Washington chaplain, who had a Liberation assembly at the Capital of
nearly four hundred people. I met several personages whom I had first encoun-
tered that epochal day years before when I went forth to check up on the Jewish
Conspiracy of which my friends in the Press Club had told me. "I think I'm go-
ing to connect with what we need," I reported to my associates.
"Oh, don't let the printing bill worry you," I was told. "It's all been
fixed in your absence."
"Fixed! Fixed how?"
"We put up Mrs. Ogden's bonds with the printing firm as surety that we'll
square the account in full."
"What do you m-mean, you put them up?"
"Why, the printing salesman was up here and said that they'd print next
month's magazine for us okay if we'd merely let them hold the bonds as security."
"You've let them g-go? . . out of our possession?"
"What difference does it make? We intend to pay the bill, don't we?"
I sat dovm weakly. Wrath was beyond me, at the look of sincere distress
on the faces of my faithful workers. "Did you get a receipt for them? Or any-
thing in writing to that effect?"
"N~No, we didn't think it necessary."
Don't try to tell me anything about Jews. In my absence, my emotional
womenfolk had been played up, the bonds had been surrendered, and the one who
got them had scuttled down the stairs without stopping long enough to write out
a receipt.
Next day they were being offered for sale at about twenty-nine cents on
the dollar and I had to take legal action to stop their sele on the honest avowal
that they had not been ours to surrender! . .
CHAPTER NINE
jy.
Y WORK in Manhattan was drawing to a close. In my heart I knew it.
Helen returned from New England on the 16th of September, On the 15th of
J October I signed the lease for two floors of a commodious little building
on Fifteenth Street at the nation's capital. It was altogether fitting and prop-
er that in the next phase of the work which I contemplated, that the ba.se of my
operations should be the District of Columbia.
Joyce and Mac were not so situated that they could follow me to Washing-
ton. But Olive accompanied me. And so did Sumner. So too did my Golden Head.
About this time also, my little 90-lb mother decided that she had lived long
enough alone up in Springfield, and being weak from her recent illness, begged
to be allowed to join me in my new location.
Before the change was actually negotiated, however, one of the most vital
of additions in the way of personnel, came into my affairs . ,
Joyce had said to me, late in the summer of 1931, "There's a fellow been
up here three or four times, trying to see you. Says his name is Summerville.
He'll be in today at ten o'clock."
"Who is he, anyhow? What does he want?"
"He murmured something about wanting to get you to come up and address
233
the Williamstown su’
oraer school. On what the future holds for the United States."
"That Bolshevik outfit! What is he, a Gonnunist?"
"No, he’s just a nice, clean-faced, sunny-haired Scotch hoy. If the Wil-
liams College summer school's a bolshevik outfit, I'll swear he doesn't know it."
"All right," I agreed. And at ten o'clock he came.
He came striding through the door with a grin that should have split its
woodwork hut didn't. He crunched my hand instead, and that became kindling.
But a strange thing had happened.
At my very first sight of him I had the same weird sensation of remember-
ing forward which had come to me at other tines in my life, notably that night
in Altadena when I had first driven into the driveway of the poignant little
bungalow, now become a memory . .
"What's this about a summer school?" I demanded as he sat down.
"I want to get you to address one. Willianstown. I've just cone down
from there."
"What's a wholesome young chap like you doing, nixed up with that Com-
munistic forum?"
The two-foot grin froze on his features. "What C-Connunistic forum?"
"The Willianstown Summer School. Don't you know what you're mixed up
in? It's one of Filene's rackets. Get all the radicals together under the ex-
cuse of studying internationalism and give the public Jew propaganda as the
product."
"You , . you n-nust be m-mistakenj"
"I'm not mistaken. And I'm not going to be snarled up in any such bam-
boozlement. What's more, you're not either. Instead of me going up there with
you, you're coning down here with me,"
"What do you mean?"
"You're going to work with me. For a danged long time!"
I saw the boy's tonsils do a flip-flop in his throat. Then the grin cane
back. It was broader than ever,
"Okay," he assented. "When do I start?"
"As soon as our new headquarters are opened in Washington. Now who are
you, anyhow? And what can y*u do?"
He saidr "My full name's Robert Carlyle Summerville. I was born in Chi-
cago and raised in Indiana. Up till a little while ago I was employed as naJce-
up and lay-out man on the Montgoraery-Ward catalogue in Chicago. Lately, since
coning to New York I've been doing research work for some architectural publi-
cations."
"Know anything about Esoterics?"
"Some."
I liked this lad. He was open, and frank, and well-groomed, and clean-
cut. He brought vistas of free, sweet-smelling sun into that workaday magazine
office in a noisy New York skyscraper.
"Forget the Willianstown summer school. I'm telling you it's poisor.cus."
"I only got mixed up in it because I wanted to learn what it might teach
me."
"I'll teach you more and you'll find it more wholesome if I do say so
personally,"
"My goodness!" gasped Joyce when Bob had departed, "You've offered that
man a job, and he's accepted it, and neitherone of you said a word about the
money!"
"That's as it should be," I admonished the young lady. "This isn't a
money business. And if I size that fellow up right, there's something else in
life for him besides dollars, also."
"Anybody would think he was an old acquaintance of yours!"
"I shouldn't be surprised but what he is."
234
So on a chilly night in early November, a yellow flivver roadster loaded
with bags, boxes, and books, drove up in front of our new Washington offices.
The Wholesome Grin came upstairs and wanted to know where he should put his stuff.
I showed him.
It happened exactly as I have set it down. And Bob himself will confirm
it. He is the only one who remains with me today — aside from my Golden Head —
from that pathetic little group who labored so hard and so zealously with me in
that 42nd Street office so l«ng ago in point of event that it seems in another
life. Through thick and thin Bob Summerville has stuck . . with no especial rea-
son why he should have stuck, excepting that it is his nature and our karma. In
nany ways he has become my alter-ego, the son whom life denied me but whom Life
as well gave back. He has made mistakes of judgment, but not of the heart. I
have wanted to trounce him a thousand times, but you can't trounce a wholesome
lad who grins. When he enters, the whole building shakes. When he laughs, the
building gives alarming symptoms of toppling on our heads. But the understanding
between us is one of those ancient things of which poets write sonnets . . and
then go out and fight with their own associates. Bob and I couldn't fight if we
tried. We wouldn't know how to go about it. He comes from that high fine breed
that delights to live dangerously. When the Communist agents in the federal Cong-
ress and elsewhere tried to railroad the both of us to prison to get rid of us,
not once did I see his cheek blanch. During most of our trial he was busy read-
ing a book on philosophy. He writes letters that are atrociously long, falls up-
stairs with a loud clatter, always turns up at the proper moment when I am out of
smoking tobacco for my briar, and thinks it necessary to compliment me when I've
done a good piece of work and know it. Considering these things, we get along
reasonably. He can handle an automobile steering-wheel with better dexterity and
surer grasp than any other man with whom I have ridden, as a poet he is an an-
cient of days — although in common with all good writers he occasionally pinches
somebody else's ideas and forgets they are not his own, in which perhaps he apes
his Chief — and asks me for two dollars without acting like a sycophant.
I like the breed of young male who laughs from the crotch northward, who
can take a bawling out and thank me for it afterward, who beats his breast like
a gorilla just because a lark is singing in a
. birch tree — if larks sing in
birch trees — and who, when the crisis comes, isn't afraid! . .
Yes, we get along reasonably.
God pity the man trying to do what I an trying to do in my stricken times
and nation, whom Destiny has not supplied with such an understudy. If he thinks
secretly to himself at tines that he is a bigger man that I am, . . well, per-
haps he is! He gets the work done.
And never once has he whimpered since I've known him.
When it cones time for the two of us to break, Fate will take care of it.
I
think he has learned much by beingwith me, even as I have learned bybeing
withhim. If in the nature of things I an called to pin his ears back, it never
occurs to him that he ought to hatch a peeve.
What can you do with a fellow like that?
What can you do with a fellow who, no natter what the circumstance, is
always big enough to learn?
WE transferred to Washington . .
^ A big manufacturer in Buffalo came to my financial assistance, through the
intercession of some supporters at the Capital. We did not stop the Jew printer
from selling Mrs. Ogden's bonds, but we did stop him from selling them for fifty
dollars to a racial compatriot and telling us we still owed him plenty. As for
Mrs, Ogdon, the files of the Western Union Telegraph Company — and her own con-
science — will reveal that one week in the June which followed,' while I was
lecturing in Atlanta, Georgia, she sent me a three-dollar night-wire advising me
235
that in all Christian charity she was forgiving ne the debt. The loss of the
bonds was not chargeable to ne. She had her own plans for netaphysical ex-
plorings. She likewise wrote my associates in Washington to the some effect.
Those things, of course, are everyone's experiences.
The trouble with my line of activity is, however, that by the nature of
the circunstances I dwell in a residence of transparent naterials.
Those are the episodes of which enemies nake capital . ,
And I had then — enemies. Their numbers were growing legion.
CHAPTER TEN
I
-1 VERY little while it was the program, back there in the days of the League
for the Liberation, for ponderous gentlenen to arise and address the public
—
J on the very absorbing topic as to how this nan Pelley first dreamed a vivid
drean in California, then put it into effect in a secular way, and fron the com-
bination of both happenings, assumed he had a destiny. All of it was mental —
I was going to say pathological — according to the ponderous gentlenen who have
explanation for all such natters neatly sorted at their finger-tips, Subconscious
Mind, of course, was responsible, I found out how to smile when I learned of
such pronouncements. They were _
s
o superficial . .
They were superficial, I say, because in all my explorings I have never
yet come across a rational biological explanation as to how or why Subconscious
Mind is capable of going ahead and opening doors in worldly affairs fir a man
strictly in line with what his Oracle has told him.
I leave the savants to figure it out, All I know is, that it happened.
For instance, take Julia.
Her real name wasn't Julia, but I've got to call her something. She cane
up to me, a total stranger, at the party of a friend one night and asked ne for
a job. She was a proofreader, she said. A good proofreader. Did I need a good
proofreader? That Afternoon her employers had sacked her. A Depression had hit
Manhattan. She knew nothing about Esoterics except that words would be spelled
quite correctly, if I wrote then and gave them unto her inspection. Without the
slightest reason why I should do so, I gave the girl employment.
One day that winter I wrote something for the magazine that had to do witl
the Encroaching Conspiracy, The printer sent up the proofs. In early evening
I pawed my desk for then. Julia, Joyce said, must have taken then hone with her.
So, as sone silly urge made me want then that evening, I called at Julia's flat
on the way to my hotel.
The outside night was raw. Julia's fire burned cheerily. She was sprawled
on the divan before the blaze, my proofs strewn around her.
"Boss," she said curiously as I lingered to thaw myself, "did you ever
know that I was one of the secretaries on the Belgian Relief Commission during
the war — that I knew Bert Hoover well enough to call hin by his nickname?"
I certainly had not. I asked her what about it?
"Oh not much. But it's curious how I got my job with you. I see here
in your article that you've made a dark reference to what went on in Belgium."
"I got my information from the Washington secret service men."
"Yeah, perhaps you did. And you had Bigger Information right in your
own office."
"What do you know about the workings of that Commission?"
"Everything there i
_
s
. G-ood Lord, I was part of it!"
"And what do I have to do, to get you to enlighten me?"
"Send the boy cut for a quart of good Sautern. Also, you night pay for
it. I'm only a little girl trying to get along."
The white wine was sent for, in double-quick tine.
236
I went away from Julia's flat that night given to deep cogitations.
I had baught wine for many women in my time, as any man will who gets about
the world. But never had a bottle of Sautern procured me quite so much as
that epochal bottle which unloosened Julia's lips that evening. John Hamill's
hook, "The Strange Career of Mr. Hoover" had not then been published. To my
growing understanding of what The Great Conspiracy was all about had been added
a loquacious account of the colossal machinations of the Jew, Eipile Francqui,
director of the Societe Generale and member of the Brussels Relief Committee.
DeWouters, Louis Franck, DeCoppee, DeMerode, Hulse, Heinemann . . I had a con-
fused but complete picture of how the United States had fed Germany through
this infamous Relief Commission while at the same time our boys were dying by
the tens of thousands before the German guns. Herbert Hoover, "Great Engineer"
indeed'. Fiddle-dee-dee 1
Or take Mrs. Lane. "Mrs. Lane" is not her name, for I cannot embarrass
the lady, who still resides in Washington, but it is near enough to answer. I
had first met Mrs. Lane when I had my studio in West Tenth Street and later had
visited the lady as one of those contacts given me by my friends in the Press
Club. Mrs. Lane had formerly been a Secret Service woman attached to the Immi-
gration Bureau. Being a decent and conscientious sort of woman, her patriotism
had become outraged by the high-handed slipping of masses of Jews into the na-
tion in utter defiance of the usual rules and regulations. Jewish influence in
Washington had made itself increasingly felt ever since the days of Theodore
Roosevelt "and his dear friend, Mr. Loeb." Mrs. Lane had first been indignant
at the way in which Jews were everywhere taking control of things, then out-
raged, then bellicose. For trying to make Jewish influences in the Immigration
Department to obey the laws, she had only found herself sacked from her job.
But during her long tenure in the place before the sacking, she had made herself
familiar with every ramification of the Jewish encroachment. Probably no woman
in Washington was better posted on the country's great preparation for Bolshe-
vism, than Mrs. Lane. Suddenly, and for no apparent reason that I was aware of
then, she opened her mind and her library to me, not to mention her archives.
I began, through her supervision, to read ever;'’ line by reputable authors, that
had been penned or published, up to that time, on Judah's current plans for the
destruction of Christian institutions. This woman's home was a salon of a kind
for most of the outstanding Christian men in the government of the period who
had likewise familiarized themselves with all phases of the Plot. Without' hesi-
tation she brought me in contact with them.
I met the man who wrote most of the Ford articles in The Dearborn Inde-
pendent, through Mrs. Lane. One Sunday afternoon I sat in his home in Manhattan
from one o'clock in the afternoon till nearly midnight, heard his version of his
discoveries in the military intelligence corps during the war, and inspected his
documentary proofs of much that he told me.
One rainy afternoon when I chanced to be in New York, Mrs. Lane phoned
me. "Can you come down to Greenwich Village?" she asked. "I want you to meet
a certain congressman who's better posted on this Jew thing than any man on
Capitol Hill. He happens to be in town today and is coming down here to my
hotel at four o'clock. It's important you should know him."
At five minutes to four I sauntered into the lobby of that nondescript
hotel, shaking ray hat and umbrella. A stocky, square-shouldered, elderly man
rode up in the elevator with me. We alighted together and went down the sane
corridor. "We seen to be looking for the same room," presently he said. We
found the room and entered. Mrs. Lane shut the door — after a cautious glance
up and down the hall. "Mr. Pelley," she said, "shake hands with Congressman
Louis T. McFadden!"
McFadden and I laid off our wet raincoats. He thereupon sat in a straight-
237
tacked, chair, tilted against that bedroom wall, feet wound in its rungs, while
I sank further and further onto the snail of ray back in a rocking-chair oppo-
site. From four o'clock until middle evening we discussed what the Jews were
fixing properly to do to the nation. Mac was Chairman of the all-powerful
Finance Committee at the tine in the Congress. It was the beginning of an in-
timate friendship between us that has lasted to this nonent.
Later in Washington I renewed ray contact. I grew to love this kindly,
sincere, purposeful Christian gentleman who held one of the most important posts
in the nation, and certainly one which brought him into closest contact with pred-
atory Jewry in its federal money ramifications. And his courtesies to no were
unending. In the five years that followed, the doors to his private office were
never closed to me. I gave him the benefit of all data coning into my possession
that in any way nelped him in the historical speeches he subsequently made in
the Congress on the Jewish question — speeches that thus became unassailable
government archives. He reciprocated to such an extent that sometimes I knew
days and weeks ahead what deep international moves were afoot, in both this na-
tion and abroad. Later I was privileged to meet Mrs. McFadden. His grown son
in California became affiliated with my Silver Legion . . after it was launched.
The men who came and went on business with McFadden were not palm-greasers or
crossers. They were men of sterling character, coning to appraise at its true
value the Roosevelt-Russocrat program that was even then preparing.
When Mac began those doughty speeches in the House which were to effect
his crucifixion politically at the hands of conniving Jews, it was ny publica-
tions and my organization in North Carolina that emblazoned them to the nation
and distributed then in booklet form. On one number and printing alone, we
issued 50,000 copies.
O i R TAKE Colonel A. E. Strath-Gordon . .
Colonel — or "Doctor" — Gordon had formerly been at the head of the
British Secret Service in this country, in its Passport Division. One day
Mrs. Lane called me on the phone from Washington and said, "Be at the 125th
Street Fort Lee ferry house at five o'clock. There's a British gentleman who'll
pick you up in his car and take you out to his house. He's heard about what
you're doing and wants to know you,"
"What's his nano?" I demanded. "And how shall I pick him out?"
"Nevermind his name. And he'll pick you out. You'll find out the rest
when you've kept the appointment."
I went up in the subway, crossed the ITorth’
River end sauntered out into
the cab shed. Such a blind steer from Mrs. Lane meant important developments.
At once I was hailed by a
. distinguished elderly gentleman driving his own car,
. , an aristocratic Scotchman with bald head and white Van Dyke beard. I got
aboard with him and we headed up into Northern New Jersey.
Colonel Strath-Gordon had, as a younger nan, been attached to the Brit-
ish medical corps in India. When the Boer war broke out there were men in the
British government who wore at a loss to fathom the strange and pernicious bias
in the American Congress against England's side in the struggle and stress on
the neutrality bonds assumed to be connecting these nations. Dr. Gordon, with
eleven others, had been chosen to investigate this unusual condition — because
of his cleverness as a diagnostician. Having established the fact that the
American Guggenhiens were behind the Boer War, in order to get Jewish control
of the South African gold mines, Dr. Gordon was kept on the job in a hundrod
parts of the world in the quarter-century which followed, running down to its
smallest detail this Gargantuan conspiracy of the international Jews against
all Christian governments, Christian interests, and Christian ethics. His was
a rich, and a ripe, experience. It was 2:30 in the morning before he drove me
238
"bnck to the ferry house. It was the commencement of a friendship that was to
evolve into another intimacy as I shall presently describe, broken off, alas,
n year later through differences of opinion and temperament with which the good
Doctor's worth had nothing to do.
But Dr. Gordon, it was, with his twenty-year experience in tracking down
the ramifications of predatory Jewry, who began to make a connected pattern for
ne of the thousand-and-one caches of information which I had collected in the
rake of other contacts. Besides being one of the best educated men whom I have
ever contacted, he was a deep esoteric student. None of my own psychometric
accomplishnentis were at all outre to this nan of many continents, whose massive
brain made him not only one of Great Britain's outstanding espionage agents —
prior to the seizing by the Jews of the British Cabinet also — but equipped him
as a linguist, a scholar, and a scientist. I might also add, OntoloSist, if suf-
ficient of my readers knew the meaning of the term.
My debt to Dr. Strath-Gordon, for aiding in my preparation for this ugly
but worthwhile labor, is profound. I acknowledge it freely and with no reserva-
tions. He complimented me with confidences regarding his private life and af-
fairs that only gave me deeper insight into the character of the man, and what
his experiences had been — particularly during the War — confirming much that
I had learned in a score of other quarters. It was Dr. Strath-Gordon's erudi-
tion in these matters that made law and order out of the miasma of intelligence
that was hourly, weekly, monthly coming to me in greater and more appalling
doses. For twenty-five years he had labored as he could, writing, lecturing,
traveling, striving to get an apathetic public on both sides of the water to
accredit the titanic plot being engineered against Christian culture. I like
to think that it is all a sort of relay race . . that men like myself are just
carrying on , . redeeming and justifying the sacrifices and dangers which per-
haps far better men have run that a Great Illumination might ultimately come to
Christian civilization . . exactly as there will be others £11 eving us who will
catch the torch which The Christian Party men throw to them and race to higher
pinnacles. It all makes for the Divine Dispensation. And in the Great Program
for human betterment, such sterling souls as Julia, Mrs. Lane. McFadden, Dr.
Gordon, all had their foreordained parts, and played them.
There is glory enough for all'.
PjNE day, after Dr. Strath-Gordon had become so interwoven with my daily
affairs that he was sharing my New York offices, he came to me and said,
"Catch up your hat and come along. I'm going to meet a man whom I feel you
should know."
Through the Hudson Tubes we rode, across to Jersey City and Newark.
Into the offices of a great New Jersey corporation in a Newark skyscraper, we
finally made our way.
"Mr. Pelley," said my eminent Scotch friend, "shake hands with Mr.
Sharp."
A tall and somewhat nonchalant southern gentleman offered me his hand-
clasp. He had a shock of iron-gray hair above a lean Atlantean face. And be-
fore ten minutes of the mysterious conference between Dr. Strath-Gordon and
this new acquaintance had passed, I was pricking up my ears at the value of the
contact.
This gentleman wa,s the Hon. Robert Sharp, former directing general of
Uncle Sam's Secret Service, the State Department Division. He had first come to
the attention of official Washington as head postal inspector under William
Howard Taft. His rise had been steady. He knew the ramifications of world
conspiracy from a background of irrefutable authenticity. In the closing months
of the Coolidge administration he had resigned, to take a uniquo position as
239
head of the anti-Communist work which this corporation was forced to do among
its own employes. Jews were everywhere at work among these employes, getting
then organized for the forthcoming revolution in the United States.
A contact and acquaintanceship second only to Dr. Strath-Gordon's in its
influence on my affairs, was begun that aftornoon. Later I was to sit with
Dr. Gordon in this man's private office with United States senators and rail-
road presidents in attendance, and hear read certain reports on the machinations
of international Jewish bankers that had cost the United States : as high as a
quarter-nillion dollars to secure . .
Every little while some incredulous person arises in the country and
challenges the veracity or accuracy of some of the statements which I make
against Judah in the Christian Party press. Little do they suspect the long
hours with eminent and accomplished men . . men who have given their lives to
this sort of thing . . that I have put in, equipping myself with the utmost de-
tails of the knowledge supplied me by then, enabling me to print the most dan-
gerous material ever published in America without a challenge or without a libel
suit, I had the very cream of the espionage brains of the country to draw up-
on. What was it that tho Oracle had said back there in the 53rd Street flat and
later corroborated by Mrs. Leslie? . . " — in two years or thereabout, you'll
find yourself sitting with the heads of government behind the government at
Washington'."
I required no flash of illumination to explain to me now what "behind"
the government meant. I was "behind" it with a vengeance . .
CHAPTER ELEVEN
TjUT what to do about it? For what purpose could all this be happening to me?
Pj In what other lmght could I look at it but that I was being entrusted with
—
s a Bright Responsibility? Such men as I have named were not taking ne into
the deepest reservoirs of their confidences without a stalwart purpose lying
somewhere behind it. If I were to take a position of aggressive leadership in
this nation, as the Oracle had declared, I positively had to possess the knowl-
edge . . verily the wisdom . . which these doughty and substantial men had to
give ne. No, I did not come by ny equipment for the great and serious job that
is still ahead of me, by listening at keyholes or making scrapbooks of news-
paper clippings.
It is no bombast on ny part which causes me to write that I knew the
entire Roosevelt-Russocrat plot nearly five years before it ever came to its
present pernicious head, . . knew it in every detail . . saw its daily workings
step by step as ny espionage friends had possessed themselves of the plans for
it out of Manhattan Jewish banking houses.
The man who must function at the head of this nation must have knowledge.
He must know every marplot in the nation and abroad, just where he fits in, just
who employs him and in what each specializes. And that knowledge was nine
richly, for the taking and using.
No matter what the personal differences are, which have arisen from time
to tine between these authorities and myself as the work progressed, I have ac-
cepted their confidences, their educating friendships as a sa.crosanct responsi-
bility. I an on this job, denying myself to do this work, carrying it forward
in tho face of the ugliest nenacings which life could call up, because there is
a camaraderie of honor which I must acknowledge and be true to. Let the Jews
and the Reds call ne names as they rail. I'm onto their schenings . .
I learned them from experts!
MacGrath and Joyce were carrying on in our New York offices, with Dr.
240
Strath-Gordon to counsel then. We still had too many connections and interests
in the Manhattan district to warrant closing those quarters in lieu of Washing-
ton, D. C. One evening I returned to New York to have Joyce say to ne —
"Do you remember Mrs. Terry, Chief?"
I asked, "Which Mrs. Terry?"
"The one who helped us finance the last printing of Seven Minutes. She's
got a sunner hone down in North Carolina . . sonewhere near Asheville, And she's
invited you and ne and Mac down to visit her over the week-end. The place is
Black Mountain."
"That's nice," said I. "But I can't go away on week-end trips with all
this writing work demanding my attention." The League for the Liberation had
passed its three hundredth assembly and Sunner down in Washington was becoming
swamped in an avalanche of detail.
"I rather think you'll go when you hear what she's proposed. She's going
to present you with land enough to build a whole college!"
"WHATI"
"Three hundred acres of it. She had me up to her Park Avenue apartment
a few nights ago. I told her what a lot of difficulty we were having in find-
ing the teachers properly equipped to give out the instruction. 'What Kr. Pelley
should do," she suggested, "is to cone down to a nice quiet little mountain
city in the South, like Asheville, and establish a school to which people can go
from all over Anerica.' And she added, 'I've got three hundred acres of land on
Black Mountain that I'll give him, providing he can somehow finance the build-
ings."
"Oh," I sighed lamely. "Providing I can somehow finance the buildings'.
Good Lord, I could get a hundred more assemblies going all over the nation if I
only could finance the printed natter, not to mention buildings."
Joyce sank down in the chair beside my desk. "Well, you haven't heard
all of it. I took the proposal up with Dr. Gordon, and he thinks ho knows some
nen in Detroit who'd put up the money for the buildings. Don't you see, . .
it'd give us a Headquarters background . . a permanency . . for all we're working
s
o hard here, to do."
W
AS this too on the cards?
Frankly, I was puzzled. My Oracle . . and Mrs. Leslie . . had mentioned
nothing about a school in North Carolina. True, I had taken that marvelous
Master Message about a "foundation" whose contents is now the famous Twenty-
Second Script in the Liberation roster. But if it were destined for ne to go
to Asheville and found a Liberation headquarters as an institution, why had I
not been advised of it more definitely?
Dr. Gordon cane in and wo all talked it over. The upshoot of it was,
that I concluded to accept Mrs. Terry's invitation, travel down to Black Moun-
tain, and view the tendered acres. There could be no harm in that. So upon
Mrs, Terry's largess, the following Saturday found the group of us speeding
southward. Mrs. Terry's chauffeur net us at Salisbury. We drove a hundred miles
v/estward up into the Great Smokies to a lovely estate on the edge of Black Moun-
tain. Mrs. Terry was a dove-like little widow whose husband had left her some-
what affluent. She wa.s courageously eager to assist in getting the Liberation
Message soundly established throughout the nation.
The following day I load my first view of Asheville.
I say I was confused. I felt that something tremendous was due to break
just around the corner of the months. I knew that all the tremendous facts that
I was learning in Washington were not for selfish keeping — sooner or la.tor I
oust put them to use. But coning down to Asheville! . . a pretty little city
in western North Carolina, thus far off tho beaten track'. . . what was the im-
port of it? 241
Mrs. Terry was on exemplary hostess. For three days I wandered about
the North Carolina countryside, tramped over the land which was being offered
to no, and tried ny best to get a psychometric inclination that I had a destiny
with a college down here in these mountains. I had Mrs. Terry’s car and chauf-
feur at ny command. I got out alone on the mountain and tried to straighten
natters out.
My Oracle m s queorly silent.
Back in New York, Dr. Gordon said to ne, "Well, let's go to Detroit,
I've always wanted to see a bonafide esoteric school started in this nation.
If we can find the nen who'llback it, suppose wo accept that it's the thing wc
should do."
In such franc of mind, he and I nade the trip.
In Detroit was the now extinct Union League. This League, a sort of
civic betterment club, had sought to deport all undesirable aliens in this
country sone months before under the celebrated Alien Deportation Act. Jews in
great swarms had at once gotten busy. No Union League Detroiters, or anybody
else, were going to deport a Jew alien when he mice got into this country . . not
if they knew it first. So the Union League had been "busted", high, wide, and
handsome. You can go to Detroit tonight and see the pretentious skyscraper
hone for the League which had been half way constructed when the Jews put a stop
to the "nonsense" and left the League broken.
There were men behind that project, however, whom Dr. Gordon had known,
not at all pleased by what had occurred. They wore seeing the light on the
nonaco of all this Jewish subversion behind American affairs. It was my col-
league's idea that if we could impress them with the possibilities of a similar
institution in North Carolina, out of the jurisdiction of the Hebrews of Michi-
gan, funds which had been held in abeyance when the League ceased operations
night be diverted to us.
At three o'clock of a Sunday afternoon, high in the skyscraper offices
of a firm of prominent Detroit attorneys, wo subsequently held our first gather-
ing. Present were ten of Detroit's leading citizens.
"Mr. Pelley," demanded one of these men two hours lator, "where do you
get your information? Exactly what was the source of the material which I un-
derstand is going out to all these hundreds of Liberation assemblies?"
However could I convey the truth of the matter to ten haxdheaded, mater-
inlistic-ninded businessmen? However, I tried.
Those men glanced at each other with smiles of polite derision. It was
the old, old reaction on the spiritually illiterate, "Now who ever heard the
likes of that before?" And yet I had supplied those non with statements of
fact that they could not ignore. There was my material as proof. And there
was much more matorial of a
, secular nature, derived from ny Orr.cle, which must
likewise be admitted. One of the magnates present turned to Dr. Gordon.
"Doctor," he demanded, "do you endorse what this chap is telling us?
Frankly, it sounds to me as if he were a nut."
Then it was that ny good friend Gordon made his famous reply . . "Well,
gentlemen, if Mr. Pelley doesn't get his information from the source he says he
does, HE'D HAVE TO BE THE CHIEF OF THE COMBINED AMERICAN AND BRITISH SECRET
SERVICE FORCES'. . . and we know he isn't that."
It had them stopped, that response. They didn't know what to think.
But they would take our proposals under advisement. The Doctor and I came home.
Two weeks later, into my New York offices walked the nan who had called
ne a "nut" . .His face was rather blank . .
"Where's Pelley?" he demanded.
"Gone down to Asheville, North Carolina," said Joyce,
"Well, I want samples of every sheet of literature you've got in this
242
whole joint,"
He bought a set of the Liberation Scripts. Thirty-five dollars’ worth!
Next day he was back,
"My Gawd!" ho cried. "Where have I been all ny life? Wire Pclley that
I and ny wife — whose with ne — are coning to Asheville to look his proposi-
tion over. We'll neet him down there Thursday . . at the Grove Park Inn."
The wire was pronptly sent.
At seven o'clock of a cold raw spring evening I halted ny car in the
pateo of the exclusive and aristocratic Grove Park Inn, Asheville's patrician
hostelry, and went up to the suite of ny Detroit skeptic to keep a dinner en-
gagement.
At twelve o'clock I cane fron that hotel with ny head in clouds higher
than the haze of the norrow above the Snokies. To Bob Sunnerville and ny Golden
Head, who had nade the trip with ne the week before to recohnoitor the scene of
our possible future labors I gasped weakly, "What . , d-do you think , . has
happened?"
"I'll bet you've got backing for the school!" cried Helen.
"I have," said I. "Fifty thousand dollars' worth! For a starter. And
I'n to go back up to Detroit within three weeks, sign the papers, and get the
money,"
"Then Asheville as a new location," said Helen, "is pretty nuch of a
sure thin^J"
"It looks that way."
Fifty thousand dollars for ny work! Things indeed were looking up.
That ensuing week I sent an announenent broadcast to the nation . .for ny nan
fron Detroit had confirned his offer by letter. He was the head of one of the
big autonobile accessory concerns. I knew he hadn't nade the trip to Asheville
merely to play golf. I announced to the nation that the Liberation work was
thereafter going to be conducted fron the Heart of the Great Snokies in the
Land of the Sky.
And the forthconing institution was to be GALAHAD COLLEGE'. . .
CHAPTER TW
ELVE
~ r HE CLOUD no bigger than a nan's hand! . . who could deny that in ny own case
it wasn't growing, thickening, taking on height and volume?
J It was in a series of weekly reports on Washington economics which I
called officially the Confidential Bulletins, that I nade ny first public utter-
ance on the Jewish question.
I had begun to issue those bulletins for two reasons. I had businessmen
supporters about the nation who sensed that I knew far far more about the Depres-
sion which was growing upon the country, than I was printing in either the
Scripts or the New Liberator. They wanted the facts. They would pay for the
facts. And this was exceeding well. I needed someone to pay for the facts.
The work wa.s taking such increasing amounts of money that personally I wa,s beg-
gared, I had been under the necessity for keeping ny ninety-pound nother near
me at the Hamilton Hotel. I was doing a lot of traveling. My daughter Adel-ide
had graduated fron the New York high school and I wanted to do more for her fin-
ancially than I was able to do on moneys that truthfully were contributed for
The League. So I had reasoned to nyself, "Why can't I fatten ny personal ex-
chequer by personally issuing a weekly letter service on economics to these
business affiliates? It's ny own personal information and nothing particularly
spiritual or religious about it. The revenue will support ne and remove ne as a
drain upon the League."
So the Confidential Bulletins began to go forth . . and as eagerly be
bought up! 243
Strangely enough, at that tine it was not nv purpose to crusade against
the Jews. I knew the crusading was due to start eventually, "but I seened to be
keeping the Spiritual, Political, and Econonic phases of ny activities in sep-
arate conpartnents of ny thinking. Up to this point the Spiritual projections
of ny activities had commanded ny tine exclusively. I wanted to get the fifty-
two Liberation Scripts published and behind ne before I gave thought to anythiig
else. With that background to build against, I could put the same intensity of
construction into the Political and Econonic projections. When I got around to
doing then, I wanted to do then well. So the first Confidential Bulletins, sent
out to a selected list of businessmen were simply by-product of ny Washington
contacts for the moment. At once I was destined to learn, however, that I was
nearer to the political and econonic crusading than I supposed. It was an in-
cident precipitated by the head of the B'nai B'rith Order in Washington that
brought this vigorously and graphically to ny attention. But before that hap-
pened, some radical alterations were of moment in the personnel of ny helpers.
Joyce and MacGrath dropped out of the picture. And Sumner Vinton gave way to
Wont Hardwick and Don Kellogg . .
pROk tine to tine over the past five years, malicious or non-understanding peo-
J pie have called attention to what they take to be significant lapses in ny
character, that I do not keep ny associates, that nen and women cone and go in
the projects which I establish, that I "use a nan, wring him dry, and throw hin
out" with a soulless insouciance that surpasses amy connercial corporation. And
they cite the circumstance of Vinton in proof.
Sumner ha.d cone to me when I scarcely knew what ny program of public en-
libntennent was to be. With a feverish sincerity and an uncanny ability for
inspiring nen and women in the field-.-to form groups to study this Liberation
Doctrine-
- he had nursed the League from thirty groups on May 7, 1931 to over
four hundred by the next year's April. Ke did this, not from any hope of finan-
cial remuneration or making a prestige to be known of nen, but because the Lib-
eration precepts had altered his whole life. He beheld what the new philosophy,
which I had recorded at the behest of ny Oracle, was doing in the way of remak-
ing the lives and spiritual fortunes of others. Fron first to last he was in
the work, as I was in the work, purely for the good which he could accomplish
in his fellownan. Never did a human being work harder or more conscientiously
to attain to his objectives. But behold what happened . . without the slight-
est disparagement or criticism of am outstanding Christian nobleman:
The League was reaching the point where the sheer detail involved demand-
ed executives to handle it. Mails were piling up day upon day. Teachers and
group leaders in the field were commencing to write me blistering letters, that
we were slipshod at Headquarters, that letters got no attention, that goods did
not arrive as and when they had been ordered, that some assemblies numbering
hundreds of people were meeting together without any word or Script from us to
serve them. At first I put this sort of thing down to the disgruntlement of
eccentric or finicky folk who will attach themselves to any gesture in public
teaching.. Sumner assured me that all was well, that he was doing his best to
satisfy all chaplains, that we had simply grown too fast to keep up with the
demands upon us considering the limited resources at our command, I felt a
responsibility toward him in this. I did not mix in his end of the work. I
stayed in my office on tho third floor while he conducted the detail of the
League amid an ocean of desks and workers on the second floor. In a way he
had been responsible for the League's present size. I wrote correspondents
apologetic letters as I could, and hoped for the best. Then a man named Mac-
Donald applied for a position.
This MacDonald had previously been with Mr. Fillmore at Unity headquar-
244
tsrs in Kansas City. He was a lean-faced. Scotchman, quick-thinking, quick-
spoken. He was one of those rare executives who entered a situation e.nd ap-
praised it correctly and trenchantly at a glanco. Exactly the man to help out
Sunner, I believed. I gave him the job and he worked at it four days.
"It's no use, Chief," he said to me at a private conference which he had
asked for, on the fifth afternoon. "I’m moving along."
"What do you mean, you're moving along?"
"I can't work in such a bedlam and satisfy myself, much less do the thing
which my salary demands, I don't think you've got the faintest idea, sitting up
here in this third-floor office and doing the writing required by this Movement,
of what goes on daily on the floor underneath you. I'm not peddling tales. I'm
merely explaining why I'm not sticking with you."
"What goes on?" I faltered.
"Your nan Vinton is literally and figuratively working himself into his
grave. He's two to three weeks behind in hundreds of his letters duo to noth-
in, but the press of the duties upon him. He's built a sort of Frankenstein
rnd sitting- up here until two in the morning — as he does — won't control it.
But tha.t's not all. He's so horridly overworked that he hasn't time either to
see to the shipments of literature or scripts. They're just being- shoveled out
on consignment to anyone who wants thorn. What worries me is, how you're going
to square yourself with Uncle Sam when it comes tine to make out your income-
tax reports."
This was alarming information. Bob Summerville had made similar com-
plaints to me, but I knew there was an instinctive resentment against the lad
as a
. newcomer and he might not know the facts, not having access to them in
consequence. I answered MacDonald —
"Granted what you say is true, . . don't you see, that's why I've asked
you to cone in and help."
"I can’t help," said MacDonald. "That League in a way is Vinton's per-
sonal creation. He’s got a thousand and one strings leading into his hands by
the very nature of what he's done already. Now that it's grown beyond the cap-
acities of any one executive, it turns about and runs him . . and delegating
work to others seems to stack up to him as an indictment that he's failed."
It was, apparently, poor conscientious Olive Robbins' predicament all
over again, but this tine in a nan. So long as a concern wa.s reasonably mod-
erate in its operations, everything was lovely and the work was well-despatched.
But when, as an adolescent youth, it took to bursting buttons, popping seams,
shooting up to extraordinary measurements of stature, giving symptoms of runnirg
its own life and staying out nights as late as it pleased, it was quite some-
thing else. Millions of quite conscientious parents find themselves in similar
dilemmas with children in every year that passes.
Here wa.s a man who had joined me in the excess of his Christian zeal
when the project wa.s a foundling. Literally and figuratively, he had given it
his heart's blood. He had his eccentricities and likes and dislikes, but who
among us does not? He had been faithful to a fault, loyal to a whole bushel
basket of faults. And I was confronted by the prospect of having to go to him
and say forcibly, "Sumner, you've got to relinquish some of this detail and let
others do it for the sake of our obligations to the people in the field, or
I've got to make a change here that'll look like gross ingratitude. I said to
MacDonald, "You hold your horses and let me investigate. I'll transfer Vinton
for a few days to New York."
"Nope, I'm gone," MacDonald answered. He had made up his mind. He was
that type of man.
I did transfer Vinton to New York, however, and went downstairs person-
ally to study my own concern.
245
I stood aghast at what I learned.
The donands of Sumner's Gargantuan nail were appalling enough, hut truly
the worst trouble was not Vinton's at all. I soon estimated that eight to ten
thousand dollars' worth of literature and scripts had been noved out to two or
three hundred chaplains without a single entry having gone upon the books. This
v ps inexcusable. I sought out the bookkeeper and we had a good fight.
"It needs three bookkeepers to do this work!1
1 the man stormed. "I'm a
mouth behind, myself."
"But why has material gone out without accounting?"
"Because our people must have goods to keep their meetings going. You're
trying to do a sixty thousand dollar annual business on about ten thousand dol-
lars' worth of capital. And that's mostly tied up in Scripts upon the shelves.
This project needs fifty thousand dollars to carry it properly, to equip it and
staff it. We decided to ship the goods out to the chaplains as depots, let them
sell what they could and return what they didn't. It's a Christian movement,
isn't it? Most of them are honest."
"But how do we know where we stand financially?"
"We don't, but what of it? we're not working for dividends, we're work-
ing for men's souls . . saving them spiritually."
I retorted, "Try and tell that to the State Corporation authorities at
Albany, New York. Or the Bureau of Federal Revenue."
Our accountant shrugged his shoulders. "If you've got the money to pay
two other competent bookkeepers, go ahead and hire 'em. Our people are kicking
at the cost of the Lessons as it is."
Heroic measures were necessary, all down the line. On the 15th of Mkarch
tax reports must be in. I let the man out and brought in an accountant. "Tell
no what the inventory is, being carried on the books," I said.
"About six hundred and eighty dollars," she subsequently reported.
My vitals sonersalted. "It's nearer ten thousand actually!" I cried.
"There's more than six hundred and eighty dollars' worth in the stock-room right
this moment!"
"It means you've got to query every chaplain and assembly lea,der in the
field. Then, apparently, you must rewrite your books from the data they supply
you. Or have the goods shipped back,"
I ordered an immediate poll of the goods in chaplains' hands. It cane
tine for our annual stockholders' meeting and I hastened to New York,
"Here's the condition of things," I told Joyce and Olivo. "Here's the
list of our actual inventory and here's the story told by our books. Until the
last are rewritten and made accurate for Uncle Sam, we've got to make a notation
somewhere that'll show our true condition."
Joyce and Olive looked through my figures. Olive had the pardonable
feminine reaction . . if I'd only let her continue to run things, few of such
troubles would have happened. Sumner, a year later, held much the same position.
"There's just one thing to do," I finally said. "We'll incorporate
this data showing our correct condition, on the reports of our Directors, At
least they'll be of record. Then no one can say that we're dealing in chicane
if our books are examined in their present condition."
It seemed the logical alternative and the women agreed to it. The true
report went into our stock-books. I nention such detail that my reader may un-
derstand clearly what la,ter took place in North Carolina when prison loomed be-
fore me at the machinations of ny enemies . ,
The minutes were signed. Then I interviewed Sumner. "I'm sorry," I told
him with a real pain in ny heart, "but you'd better let several people do the
work which you've been doing. It's nothing against you, man. The League's just
too big for one man to look after it."
246
But Sunner took it hard. No, he wouldn't stay if that was the way I
felt about it, after all the hours he'd put in and the personal sacrifices he'd
been called upon to nake.
It was one of those vital hut poignant situations which a nan in ny place
had to stand up to, that the work night go forward. I offered hin a place in
the forthcoming college down in North Carolina. No, he wasn't interested in a
college job in North Carolina. He had given his whole heart and soul to the
League for the Liberation and now I was thanklessly taking it away from hin —
s
o he inplied. How could I nake hin see that there is a point where even a
. nan,
or nen, who have launched a project a.re required to relinquish to dozens, hun-
dreds, thousands of others, when it grows beyond their capacities? Sunner took
it hard, I say. In fact, the insinuations began to grow . . from the quite-
necessary expedients I was talcing to put the gesture on a better business basis,
. . that I was going commercial, that I was capitalizing on the League's success
to nake a lot of money fron the original spiritual premise. How could I nake
people understand that unless these commodity principles were installed with
vigor, that everything we stood for was confronted with a fold-up? I made the
wise decision. They might think what they night. I had to do the thing which
necessity demanded.
So Sunner went hone to New Jersey to grieve within his spirit. And I
earned the first frail defamations of bein'; a nan who didn't play fair, who took
on men, wrung them dry, and cast then out. Yet if I had the sane thing to live
over again, I could not have done differently. Had Sunner been the man to stride
along with ne, despatch all work by an abstract supervision, do nothing himself
but watch the wheels turn on the machine he had constructed, he would have been
with ne today. And I would arise and call him blessed. He saw the League, how-
ever, as something whose detail he must watch every instant. He must know the
contents of every letter that came in, and all but respond to it personally.
Those who understudied him wore disintegrating agents . . at least so he felt.
I performed a surgical operation as lovingly as I could.
And it broke the man's heart', . . ah nel
"
|
JKE NEXT thing that happened was the vanishing of Joyce.
J She had not wanted to leave New York — for either Washington or Asheville.
She had the lease of her apartment, her friends and her interests there. So
presently the day cane when I ran up to Manhattan to sug :est the closing of
those prenises. It was nonsensical to have three offices, one in New York, an-
other at the Capital, another in the South.
"Whore's Joyce?" I asked the nan who was in charge,
"Gone," he said simply.
"Gone where?"
"Search me. Just gone. I think she's married Mac."
"MacGrathl I thought he was married."
"He's got him a divorce. Anyhow, they're gone1
."
Later I discovered that this was not quite true. Joyce had gone home to
visit her parents and McGrath had accompanied her. Not expecting ne in New York
she had not informed me of it. She cane back ultimately and I reached an
arrangement with her that she should nake her living thenceforth maintaining a
depot for our books in Manhattan. She kept it up three months from a store in
Sutton Place, when I returned fron a long Spring lecture-tour, I found the place
closed. Joyce and Mac had married indeed. They had left New York permanently
and left no address where their nail should be sent. It was not at all deser-
tion. It was the closing of a sequence. They too had played their parts.
They had done what they could. For almost two years I never had the slightest
inkling of the newly-weds' whereabouts. And it caused ne no end of distress
247
in that Joyce had taken her Connon Stock with her. When later Olive Rohhins
also went her way, I was suddenly in a plight. Eow could I conduct the corpora-
tion, hold stockholders and directors' nestings with a quorun present as our
By-Laws required, when I personally held hut one-third of the stock? I consul-
ted attorneys.
"There's only one thing to do, if you can't locate either woman, . .
that's to liquidate The Press. Certainly you need a more appropriate corpora-
tion to handle the project developing in the South. A printing concern can't
conduct a college."
"But I've got stockholders in The Press. Eow can I liquidate?"
"You can pay up The Press's outstanding obligations and then redeem the
stock at one hundred and ten."
"With what?"
"You say you've considered taking out a charter in North Carolina for
The Foundation for Christian Economics. Well, such a corporation could buy the
Press's assets. Buy then in lieu of taking its funds and paying Galahad Press's
bills. Besides, you've never had personal control of The Press, and that's a
dangerous position for you to be in. Suppose some of your Jewish adversaries
get to either of those women and buy up their holdings? Or get to then both and
thus control your company? They could wreck all you've done and cast you out
besides,"
I gave this proposal the attention it merited. I had fifty thousand
dollars in prospect for the project in Asheville. I no longer required The
Press as a conpany. ^t was awkward, anyhow, to conduct a New York State cor-
poration down in North Carolina.
"Fair enoughj" I said finally. "We'll liquidate The Press."
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
A SKEVILLE was turning up one contact of note.
r—\ In that little southern city, nn.de famous enough already by 0. Eenry,
•J * was the concern The Biltnore Press.
The Biltnore Press was a struggling printing firn owned and conducted by Robert
and Gladys Williams. On ny second visit to Asheville, a nutual acquaintance had
introduced us. This acquaintance ripened swiftly into a
, relationship which now
I see was karnic.
Robert and Gladys were the finest types of earnest and struggling young
married people, with a love and sincerity toward each other and toward their
friends that kept true and wholesome one's faith in hunan nature. Robert was
a clean-cut, stocky, substantial young citizen, immaculate in his dress, stable
in his character, who had bought the concern a few months before on funds ad-
vanced by relatives. Gladys was his loyal and conscientious co-worker, high-
strung with the verve of the pure-bred southern woman, yet warm-hearted, gra-
cious. Each looked at humankind and life from honest, level eyes, believed in
the inherent decency of human nature, and were building their new business in
a loving cooperation. Gladys, a comely, capable girl with a perfectly-molded
chin, ran the office and kept the books. "Bob" managed the business in the
shop and out. They epitomized the nore-than-averago young business couple of
the New South, and they needed plenty of orders to keep their presses turning.
But this is of note: Gladys too had her Oracle. Moreover, it worked. She
confided to me later that at the noment I first entered their shop and the friend
introduced us, she had a clear-cut, clairvoyant vision of the excellent camarad-
erie that was later to grow between us. To Bob Williams and Gladys, I therefore
showed ny letter from that backer in Detroit . .
248
It was a wonderful three weeks which I lived that fraught March, getting
details arranged for the start of the College. Over in the town of Black Moun-
tain was a group of empty Buildings and classroons occupied in sunner By the
YMGA. I found that I night lease these Buildings for nine months in each year.
Thus ny school could start at dnce, The property which Mrs. Terry was putting
at our disposal ran alongside on the west. I could construct new Buildings on
it and when they were conpleted, transfer the school fron one plant to the
other. So far and wide throughout the Liberation Assemblies of the nation had
gone the announcement that commencing in July I would personally take students
for a trial summer session. Dr. Strath-Cordon was to head this institution.
He too went down to Asheville and laid plans to move there.
So Bob and Gladys Williams, on the strength of what they knew about my
Movement — Gladys having Been a reader of our magazine for months Before Ashe-
ville was ever thought of — extended me a three thousand dollar printing cred-
it, The current issue of The New Liberator was transferred to their shop.
Up in Washington throughout these developments two earnest young men,
Brothers-in-law, had cone down from Buffalo t* take Sumner Vinton's place.
Young Kardwicke . . "Mont" as he was called . . was another serious-minded fel-
low who likewise had an Oracle that worked. His Brother-in-law, Don Kellogg,
was an adept circulation nan, having handled the distribution of the McFadden
Publications throughout northern New York State. Mont was a clean-cut, capable
business executive who had Been in the advertising Business in Hartford, Conn.,
and later with a mining concern in Ontario. His Brother-in-law was an elongated,
golden-headed Boy, with such a striking resemblance to Colonel Charles Lindbergh
that he frequently attracted crowds on the street. Mont Kardwicke walked into
Sunner Vinton's place in Washington and installed system and efficiency in a
natter of days. Executive after executive was acquired and drilled and directed.
Don took the circulation of The New Liberator and started performing miracles.
I had suddenly acquired two helpers that could not have Been more apt had I
nolded them to order.
Over a hundred prospective students were enrolled for our new college
in something like ten days . .
"f'HUS it was that Mont Hardwicke one afternoon in the Washington offices
■
* answered a phone-call that was on the whole mysterious. If he would come
over to a certain street address, he would learn much of interest to his em-
ployer and stockholders. Mont got his hat and sought out the place.
It was the Washington headquarters of the order B'nai B'rith.
There are thousands of people in America who Believe that B'nai B'rith
is merely a Hebrew fraternal organization, like the YMCA among Gentiles. So
it is inplied By all Jews themselves. But men and women in the inner councils
of the federal Secret Service had long since advised us that B'nai B'rith was
quite something else. It was in practice a nation-wide secret service for
the Jews as a race, more efficiently organized than the national Secret Service,
with representatives in every city, town, and hamlet to watch out for the slight-
est agitation against Jewish machinations or individual protest at what is be-
ing done By Judah and squelch it with ruthlossness.
Mont reported that he was passed through an anteroom of hawk-eyed young
Hebrews and into a semi-circular chamber where a man sat at a desk. Before him
was a pile of our Scripts and Confidential Bulletins. His greeting was curt.
"We know all about what Mr. Pelley's up to," was his opening pronounce-
ment, tapping his knuckle on the literature Before him, "Who does he think he
is, that he's going to get away with it?"
"I don't get you," parried Kardwicke.
"Fellers that write this sort of thing," was the insolent declaration,
249
"don't live long. It's about tine he knew it.”
"What do you nean, don’t live long?"
"Well, . . sonetines they fall 'hy accident' in front of traffic . .
sonetines they're standing on subway platforns when trains cone in, and some-
thing happens to 'en . . sonetines they eat things that ain't so g o o d -
- "
"Seo here!" cried Mont. "Have you got me over here to threaten Pelley's
life?"
"Who's threatening?" singsonged the Jew with a characteristic gesture of
his hands. "It ain't threatening to tell you things you don't know."
The supreme arrogance, the cocksureness, the p.ssunption of racial power
and security, angered ny associate. Yet he contrived to ask —
"Well, what about it?"
"He should watch his step! It ain't healthy, you know, to write things
against Jews."
"Oh no? And who do you Jews think you are, that you can stop Pelley from
writing the truth if he happens to take the notion?"
"We got it ways to stop him."
"So? That's interesting."
"If he goes on writing things against us, we'll smash him, . . you'll
see!"
"Got it all sort o' sewed up in your own minds, haven't you?" snarled
Hardwicke, in whom courage was not lacking.
"We got it ourselves to protect, and Pelley or nobody else ain't gonna
say things against us that stirs up trouble!"
"Then why don't you folks stop doing things that makes it necessary for
Pelley to write as he does, at all?"
"That's our business."
"Yes, and it's Pelley's business what he writes. This is free America
and Pelley's a native American, There's such a thing yet as the Constitution
and freedom of speech and of the press-
- "
"I'm only telling you. Make sure you tell your boss." And the Hebrew
arose, indicating the 'conference' was at an end.
Mont went forth and crossed directly to the offices of our attorney
where he made an immediate deposition of the conversation and swore to it, for
future evidence in case I was attacked."
But ten thousand Jews who had been watching me uneasily ever since that
day in Salmon Tower when ny printer had propositioned me "to go partners" and I
had refused him, were now certain that I meant then no good. They knew whom I
traveled with. Their spios had seen me going in and out of such offices as
McFadden's. They beheld me in company with men like Doctor Gordon. In ny
Scripts I had made pointed references to Dark and Sinister Forces that between
1929 and 1936 were going to seize hold of, and strangle, America under an
effluvia of evil. They contrived to subscribe for the Confidential Bulletins
and know therefrom that the source of ny information about them was inexhaustive
and irrefutable.
From that moment forward, I was a marked man in ny own country. I was
daring to challenge the powers that had decided in their own conclaves to snash
Christianity and free institutions. It was an age-old contest in which they
were engaged, and now they imagined they were nearing its consummation.
"Fiddlesticks!" I said to Hardwicke, on coning up from Asheville and
learning of the interview.
"What do you nean, fiddlesticks?"
"If they want to kill me, that's splendid," I answered. "You see, I'm
not afraid of death because I know it can't hurt me. I'm leaving for Detroit
tonight to get that backing. The College is going forward and all the Jews in
hell can't halt it!" . .
250
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
D
OCTOR GORDON accompanied ne. Down in North Carolina I had incorporated
The Foundation for Christian Economics. This was a non-profit taking
educational institution, fully authorized to conduct such an enterprise
as I hoped Galahad College night tecone. The Young Men's Christian Association
authorities had drawn up their papers for the taking over of their buildings.
Students from all quarters of the nation ha.d sent in their applications for en-
rollment. After the publicity which I had gained in over four hundred Libera-
tion Assemblies, the news that I would personally lecture at this school every
day throughout that first summer had been sufficient to attract them. Again I
ask, was not all this activity, this growth end this interest, a strange cir-
cumstance if out there in California I had merely "dreamed a dream"? , .
In due course of transportation, Doctor Gordon and I reached Detroit,
t
i
e registered at our hotel and I called our benefactor at his home. "I'll tell
him when he cones in," the maid responded. And we sat ourselves to wait.
V
i
e waited till midnight. Surely the maid had forgotten her promise. We
waited the better part of the following forenoon, Then I called again.
"Meet me at the bank at eleven o'clock," our Detroit nan now suggested,
"What's wrong?" asked Gordon.
"I don't know," I said worriedly. "But he didn't sound at all enthus-
iastic."
We got over to the bank. Our nan came in. As he entered through the
revolving doors, I took a firm grip on ny courage. He had all the aspects of
not having slept for a week. His handshaking was perfunctory.
Across at the wicket he said to the toller, "Joe, signal upstairs and
have then tell ne what ny bank balance is."
The teller worked his mechanical pencil and the figures cane back. He
wrote then on a slip and passed it out, face downwards, "Take it without ne
looking at it," the Detroiter said to Gordon, who was standing nearest to him.
"Whatever it is, I'll give yoxx a tenth of it."
Gordon looked at the slip.
The figures were $818.39 . . Our man drew a ragged sigh. "Upon ny
honor," he said huskily, "that's every penny I've got in the world. In the
three weeks since I visited Asheville, I've . . b-been . . cleaned clean."
If the Doctor's face was grin, ny face was chalky.
"It happened just a few days after I got hone," went on the speaker.
"A Jew crowd pulled a coup on our company and froze us all out. Now they're
'reorganizing' and I'm not apart of it. I've lost the increment of thirty
years of labor. When I 6at with Pelley in Asheville I was worth half a mil-
lion dollars. Now all I've g-got, upon ny sacred honor, is that $818 and the
homestead property where I live, that's in my wife's name."
I got myself readjusted . . Those things happen in life . . it's all
a part of the spiritual adventure .•
.
"I'm sorry you nen had the trip up here for nothing. Truth to tell, I
was so engrossed in ny own affairs, trying to salvage what I could fron the
wreck, that I forgot you were coning or I'd have stopped you. Anyhow, I'll
give you a hundred dollars out of that noney. It'll cover your expenses."
"You keep it," I said to Doctor Gordon savagely out on the sidewalk.
"You probably need it more than I do!" I was not reflecting on Doctor Gor-
don. I saw by his face that such disappointment was grievous. Besides, ny
thoughts were in Asheville, on the pe.thetic confidence which Bob and Gladys
Williams had in ny statements, in the credits they had allowed ne and the goods
they had delivered, which they could by no means afford if money did not come
promptly. Also I was thinking of those hundred students that were due to ar-
2 5 1
rive the first of July. I said that I expected to start a school in Asheville.
If I could not locate another backer quickly — as the probabilities were that
I could not — this defection left mo in a major shell-hole. How could I get
out of it?
But I had not gone through thirty years of grin business experience to
let such a disappointment floor me. "Doctor," said I, riding home on the Pull-
nan that night, "maybe this let-down is all for the best. We need money to
start that school and repair our own finances. Let’s you and I spend the tine
between now and July going forth on a lecture-tour."
He was immediately interested. "Where would we go?"
"There's not a city in the nation that I couldn't go into, put out our
advertising, and draw a good crowd. People by the thousands have cone to our
Assemblies. I've never appeared at any of then, because if I went to one I'd
have to go to them all. N«w we'll break loose and make public appearances
finance the college."
By the time we got back to New York, we had the trip planned . . to open
in Cleveland as soon as I could arrange it, move up to Detroit, go on to Chicago
and down to St. Louis. We had heavy Assemblies in all those cities.
For the time-being I did not announce our foozled plans in Asheville.
I stayed down thore long enough to get out the copy for the current issue of
the magazine, paid the Williamses what I could on account, and left it with
Sunnerville to do what he could in our absence to locate us buildings for a
nodest Summer School, because the expensive YMCA premises were now out of the
question. Only my Golden Head knew the stark truth , .
"Nevermind," she told me. "You did the best you could. Maybe you'll
encounter another backer on your tour."
The night before I left Asheville, to open the speakings in Cleveland
the following Monday night, I got another jolt. A letter was delivered to me
from Mrs. Terry.
"I find that I made a blunder," she informed me, "in thinking I could
give you that land for your school. There's something about ny estate, my
attorneys inform me, that renders such a gift illegal."
"Troubles never cone singly," I laughed to Sunnerville and Helen, toss-
ing the letter across for then to read.
Poor little Mrs. Terry. I knew that she was "a good friend" of Lillian
Wald, Jewess directress of the socalled Williams Street Settlement, endowed by
Jake Schiff in his will. And Jake, as ny reader remembers, was the nan who
shook his fist at the White House and made those Communistic remarks when he
found that he could not shake William Howard Taft. Mrs. Terry, I later learned,
did not at all approve of ny "attacks on the Jews" . . the Jews were nice peo-
ple . . it wasn't Christ-like to do that sort of thing . .
“^REREFOEE at Carnegie Kail in Cleveland, Ohio, I opened our speaking-tour
■
1 on April twenty-fourth. Dr. Gordon was delayed in joining me from his home
in New Jersey and I had to carry the first six lectures alone. It was only an
incident. The crowds packed Carnegie Hall night after night in swelling num-
bers. Olive Robbins had been sent ahead to act as our advance agent, her old
job which she had tried to do for me in New England, and at which she was an ex-
pert. People had not truly begun to feel the Depression and the silver money
counted up.
From a successful week in Cleveland, we moved on to Detroit. Our success
here was nominal. Grand Rapids came next and the attendance was better. Our
biggest success, however, was in Chicago. Night after night we filled the Aud-
itorium. Sometimes I also lectured in the afternoon, so great was the interest
in the doctrine I was preaching. One night a group of prominent Chicago busi-
252
nessnen tendered ne a dinner in the Sherman Hotel. They wanted me to give them
the truthful "low-down" on what was "behind this terrible hiatus that was set-
tling on the nation. Then it was that I commenced to put ny findings to account.
From the boys in the Press Club to distant Siberia, I took then, and ny talk with
that great Czech General in his wagonlitz that night at Irkurtzk. I gave then
the complete picture in a two-hour address. And it left then slightly stunned.
I told then why Herbert Hoover had been put in the White House and what he was
supposed to do. I explained that the Moratorium he had called was all part of
the scheming, that I believed he was expected to make relief as impractical as
possible so that the country night repudiate him in favor of a Man of Action.
Who it would be, I said I didn’t know. But I was convinced that under the
stress of hard tines a President would be slipped in who would carry out those
cunning measures long-since planned by the Schiffs and koonlobers.
I had barely time, after finishing this talk, to catch a- cab for the Aud-
itoriun where I was due to open at half-past eight,
PjOWN to St. Louis we gradually worked our way, and there constitutional dif-
ferences between the Doctor and myself, as to what sort of college it should
"
b
e
, and how it should be conducted, brought us to a jellybean crisis in our re-
lationship. The Doctor had the right to his outlook on the project. I felt
that I had the right to nine. Furthermore, the people who were coning to the
school were Liberation Assembly students. They expected something of the sano
order that I had taught then in the Scripts, Doctor Gordon saw things differ-
ently. When I ran over to Asheville from St. Louis to see how Summerville was
making out with rental of new quarters, I received a preenptory wire fron the
nan toward whon I was otherwise indebted for so much,
"If I come as President of your school," he telegraphed, "I must insist
on a salary guarantee of ten thousand a year."
I wrote back, "You know as well as I do, Doctor, that I’m in no position
to guarantee anything. We’re both pioneering in a thankless, dangerous field.
As I’m unable to comply with any such figure, I’ll try to do with the Sunner
School what I can alone."
This letter was not acknowledged . .
I slipped up to Washington, D. C, and got in another week of lectures.
I went down to Atlanta and talked there for five nights.
It was during this visit to Atlanta that Mrs. Ogden’s message reached
ne . . that she was forgiving ne the debt on those real estate bonds and the
stock which I could not issue. I say again, as I shall have occasion to men-
tion further on, I took her at her word. I did not know that she had written
a letter to Mont Hardwicke confirming this. With a
. full heart, in view of the
troubles I was carrying, I scarcely bothered to keep that telegram . .
But another communication reached ne in Atlanta. Summerville announced
that through the kindness of Asheville people, interested in my enterprise, it
was possible for us to secure the Asheville Woman’s Club indefinitely for our
school. It had a beautiful location, was artful and commodious, and had the
largest non-theatrical assembly hall in Asheville, with a full-sized stage and
organ. And the rental was low, due to the club's financial difficulties. I
returned from Atlanta to inspect a $120,000 building, fully equipped and furn-
ished, in the city's finest section. In front of it was a park that could ans-
wer excellently as a campus.
On the fifth day of July, Galahad College in Asheville opened . . With
Doctor Gordon missing from the picture, I carried on alone, alone excepting for
the able assistance of Henry Hardwicke, Mont's father, and one of the nation's
foremost authorities in metapsychics, and James Edgerton, president of the New
Thought Alliance and known for his writings on Christian esoterics. Dr. Edger-
253
ton acted as Dean. The three of us carried a roster of nearly 200 students
through nine weeks of intensified studying in all "branches of Christian Mysti-
cism. I personally delivered one hundred and five lectures in a period of
forty-nine days and nights, I did this without repeating nyself once, with-
out notes, without previous preparation. I gave ny first daily lecture at
9:15 in the morning and my second at 4:30 in the afternoon. On top of this,
I sometimes lectured in the evenings. On Sunday evenings at seven o’clock
I delivered a religious sermon.
Grown men and women from every State in the Union came to Asheville and
sat without creaking their chairs through a roster of enlightenment so generous
and unusual that many a "pupil" came to me after the third week and declared,
"If this school closed up tomorrow, I want you to know that I consider I've got
ny money's worth!" And they were paying $150 for the term! None of them were
curiosity-seekers. They were staid and sedate men and women, doctors many of
then . . wo had one represenative present all through the sessions from the
Rockefeller Foundation . . clergymen, school teachers, metaphysical leaders,
earnest Christian men and women.
And I took them through a complete evolution of the world, from the
projection of the planet down through every phase af secular and sacred history
to the present. I gave them, in effect, the Unknown and Unwritten History of
the Earth, which the great Jew-endowed orthodox schools of learning will not
permit to "
b
e taught, as invalidating the preposterous claim that the Father to
whom Jesus prayed in the Garden, has any mortal favorites.
"In heaven's name, where did you get such extraordinary material!" the
Rockefeller Foundation doctor demanded of me one evening.
"Oh," I "bantered, "I've "been twenty-five years reading every night in
bed!"
On another night I was waited upon "by representatives from another group.
"This great, soul-relieving curriculum has got to "
b
e made available," they con-
tended, "for the hundreds of people back home who would want to come here if
they only could manage it financially, or if they dreamed of what you've made
available for us. Can't these morning lectures, at least, be printed?"
"Perhaps," I promised . .
It was the most beautiful summer which my life had encompassed. I had
about me from one to two hundred people all of whom were sincerely zealous to
explore with me the great Christian truths of sentient mortality. All the ser-
vices were in the sacred manner. We researched psychics, metaphysics, mysti-
cism and psychometry. I gave then the background of the Jewish cabal from its
inception, and my resources were devastating. Now and then a Jew would intrude,
find out the sort of enlightenment I was distributing among these people, and
go forth in Asheville to add to a malicious whispering campaign . . that we were
a lot of atheists, that we were a bunch of crazy Spiritualists, that we were
a crowd of imminent seditionists, that I was against the Jews because I was
against Christ. Asheville people, who never bothered to accept our invitations
to the public to cone in on Sunday nights and find out what we were teaching,
accepted theso defamations at their face value. It was the old, old story of
Pythagoras and his colony at Crotona all over again . ,
But I disregarded that. The people before me were being helped. Furth-
ermore, they would be mentally and spiritually equipped to meet and prosper
others when our nation entered its Dark Days in earnest,
I think ny vanity is pardonable when I reminded nyself that I did all
this mostly out of a rich experience with men and life as I have previously set
it forth. I was the lad who hp.d wept bitter tears in the Schenectady hotel be-
cause father would not permit me to go on into college and complete ny educa-
tion. But the Dark Days were coning on swiftly. I still had my Real Job to do
ahead . . 254
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
O
UT of the Wilderness crieth a voice; Arise, 0 shepherd, and lead My people!
for their hearts are heavy and their footsteps are weary, . . they know
not the treasure of the glories which shall he!
Night after night in Galahad College, with a city sleeping around me, I withdrew
into ny silence and communed with my Oracle.
Great days were in the making. The commanders of Darkness were unleash-
ing their legions. A famine was coming upon the land, and a time of trouble
such as never had been since there was a nation.
Hoover had been repudiated just as I had known he would be repudiated.
A nan wrhom Theodore Roosevelt had stigmatized as my "illegitimate" cousin . .
only he hadn't parlorized the "illegitimate" . , has ascended the seat of Jew-
ish power in the nation. I had reason to believe he was a Dutch Jew himself.
Anyhow, men like McFadden, Gordon, Sharp, and others had put me in possession
of irrefutable information regarding the Plot being unwound on America and snar-
ing ny beloved country in its coils. My Oracle was telling ne exactly what I
had to do, that days of persecution and defamation were ahead, that I must ex-
pect crucifixion even as My Lord was crucified . . for striving to bring men the
lambent prospect of a higher, better order. They listened to Him sneeringly and
asked, as they were likewise saying in Asheville, "Now whoever heard of the
likes of that before?"
Lillian's Big Drums'. . . the crash of then had never left ne since that
night upon the Mojave.
Plainly I discerned as the summer wore onward and people cane and went,
that founding a college was altogether premature. My Oracle had told methat
also, but had not prohibited the experience of that summer for the perfecting
of ny equipment for ny role in the Cycle. I was waiting, listening, expecting
a summons. But I was not prepared for it in just the way it came.
One thing I had done, . . I had completed ny contract with the Assemblies
of Liberation. The fifty-two Scripts which I had promised back in New York had
teen compiled and delivered. I even went so far as to write fifteen more, to
give our folk good measure. I had recorded and projected an entirely new reli-
gious philosophy, a philosophy of Christian mysticism raised to ideality but
minus the hatreds, vengeances and preposterous absurdities of the Jewish God of
Jealousy. I felt that I had done ny part toward bringing back the cleansed and
beautified Message of Jesus exactly as He spoke it, not as the subversionists
later seized upon it and made it coincide with the Jewish Old Testament, What
made me think this? . , The Scripts speak for themselves . , if my reader is
curious to know what the foundation-strength was for these Herculean labors, he
can procure them for himself and form his own conclusions.
As for Galahad Press, I was paying off its bills and winding it up. It
too had served its purpose. There were bigger things ahead, I say, and the
winter was to bring them.
There were changes in personnel, Olive Robbins, after the break-up of
the Gordon lecture tour, had gone to a sister's home in Cleveland then taken
a new job somewhere in the West, Mont Hardwicke had become engrossed in some
chemical experiments of his own. One day in the autunn I gave it out that I
would not continue the college on a personal attendance basis. The lectures,
yes. I would make them the basis for a nation-wide correspondence school course
which people could enjoy in the convenience of their homes. But I needed a man
to conduct this as a unit.
Dr. Henry Hardwicke said to me one afternoon in late September, "I think
I've got the person to take my son's place. His name is Anderson, George Ander-
son, and his home is in Buffalo, He'd make a national
255
institution out of this
Fellowship idea. And he’d he sympathetic to the principles we’re trying to
inculcate because he’s had experiences in his own life right along the sane
line."
It was an astute executive, a practical business manager who wouldn't
attempt to commercialize the instruction, that I needed just then, I wrote to
this Anderson. And he drove down to see me.
He was a brown-eyed individual of about 50 years, with s slightly-hooked
nose and snow-white hair above ‘
a ruddy complexion. And he was portly, well-
ballasted. He had read my writings. He was free to join me . . providing, how-
over, I would aid him with sundry personal expenses that were embarrassing him
in Buffalo. As the result of many conferences, I lot him have the job.
Even to this moment I have never been ablo to make Anderson out. My
reader must judge the man's character for himself . . -and strictly by what hap-
pened. I helped him with his bills and traveling expenses. Ke cane to Ashe-
ville and took hold of things with zest.
It seemed that I had uncovered a prize!
George took all business and financial detail off my shoulders. He
answered correspondence, he saw to all printing. Under his supervision the
numbers of Fellowship students began to mount — five hundred, six hundred,
seven hundred, eight hundred! He was first at the building in the morning,
the last to leave it in the evening. Face drawn with weariness, he often
worked as Sumner had worked before him, far into the morning, relieving me and
protecting me from the harassnents of commercial things so that I could devote
myself to writing. Scores of the college students had stayed on in Asheville
and now we &ave them places because of their training. Bob Summerville was
still my right-hand in answering personal correspondence, or working on print-
ing "lay-outs" , but the brunt of the rapidly developing institution fell on
George Anderson, _____
So the remaining months of 1932 wore away. Roosevelt had been elected.
Money was growing tighter, still it did not affect us as it affected others.
So long as people had money, it was the sort of material that we were publish-
ing that they most desired to read. The first item in Mrs. Leslie’s prophecy
had come true about the "nation-wide spiritual movement" . . the second had
materialized that "in two years or thereabout you'll find yourself sitting with
tho heads of government behind the government in Washington" . . but the third
item, that "in three years or thereabout you'll find yourself at the head of a
quasi-military order, pledged to protect Christian Constitutionalism when it
hangs by a thread" was still in the future. What could it encompass? Would the
implied Great Pyramid date of January 31, 1933, give any indication? We were
watching that date. The Pyramid never failed.
It so happened that I was working late one night in my office at the
east end of tho main collego building when Marion Henderson, my secretary,
came in with the Asheville evening paper. I saw eight-column headlines. Cur-
iously I picked it up. The date was January 30, 1933. And screaming from the
page were the significant words —
ADOLF HITLER BECOMES GERMAN CHANCELLOR
I looked at the lines. I read them again. I sought to comprehend them.
Something clicked in my brain! . .
Bob Summerville was near. So was Anderson and Helen, I laid the p.apor
down. The prophecy gotten that night in the 63rd Street flat before going up to
Mrs, Leslie's was working!
"Tomorrow," I announced, "we have the Silvershirts!"
Anderson scowled. Summervillo was puzzled. One of them echoed, "What
256
are you talking about? What are The Silvershirts?"
"Get out, everybody!" I cried in thick emotion. "Let me alone tonight!
Tomorrow you'll know everything!"
They were not a little worried. But they did as I requested.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
\ IGHT lies curdled over the world — thus went the first words down on ny
\ typewriter. Beneath its black cloa-k the Powers of Darkness seduce and
■ slay. Monstrous shapes laugh derisively at God. They think that The
Christ is a nan of straw. They nock the Higher Fraternity with vauntings. Wor-
ship us, they say, . . bow down and do us reverence! . . or we violate your
firesides, we despoil your daughters, we make perverts of your sons, there shall
be no godly thing endure unless it serve our lust — for we, the powers of dark-
ness have said it. Did we not crucify your Lord? Did we not spit upon your
Prince? Have we not shown ourselves inviolate in every land where Fraternity is
slogan? We cone unto you and say in curdled blackness, "You know not our names
except that we be powerful!"
And the timid shrink. The women and children cower. The strong men
blanch. The Four Horsemen ride the crest of men's heart-hopes. The righteous
cry for peace, but peace is denied then. The hungry wail for bread and the
divinity of labor. But the bread has been scattered and labor is a blasphemy.
Night lies curdled over the world.
Its heart is of pitch. Locks and vaults are powerless to prevail against
its lecheries. Humanity groans, prostrate, ravished in its sculleries. Out of
the jaws of darkness no Voice has yet sounded, "Up! ye men of Christ! Stretch
your strong biceps'. Clang mightily your amor, yo invincible stalwarts of the
Galilean!"
Long is the Night.
Yet Prophecy is errorless.
Through the night's heart goes a shudder of stillness. It freezes the
phantoms. The thieves drop their plunder.
WHAT IS THAT NIMBUS ATOP YONDER MOUNTAIN? . .
U/ATCH it, ye peoples'. Strange is that radiance! . , what can it portend?
‘ ' Behold the mountaintop grows itself an aura, weak as a moonbeam, vague as
a wish. Something is happening behind yonder summit'. See, the world is not
darkness, the world is pearl-gray. Look around you. Gaze across vague dis-
tance, turn your eyes behind you and look to the westward.
Where are those Three Crosses that in last evening's twilight showed
against dark tumult? BEHOLD THEY ARE MISSING!
What can it mean? What has become of them? Who has removed them? Look
back toward the Eastward. .
The East takes on color, the mountain shapes grow sharper, a hush holds
the world. The fogs of the dawn prepare for an anthem. Harken to the silence.'
But is it a silence?
ARE MEN MARCHING SOMEWHERE?
r^AINT come the first sounds. Now they seem stronger, though valley-mists
J screen them. Who can these be who thus march in the fore-day? Hark! . .
the sounds are growing louder! . . this is no company of heavy-eyed marauders
who thus plague the dawn. Their footsteps are dauntless. They step with steel
courage'. There is a horde somewhere, whose serried ranks are coming ever closer!
The light grows brighter, the treads grow heavier. THIS IS NO WATCH TEAT PATROLS
WANING NIGHT WITH LANGUOR! . .
257
An army is coning from Somewhere!
Its stride is a tocsin.
Men of Christ! Arouse! Look upon this Miracle emerging from the mist-
banks! Where have they come from, these silvered ranks of valor? Who brought
this host together? Who cast them in this concord? What is that snow-white
banner with its one letter of deep scarlet whose folds catch the gleam from the
blaze on the skyline?
Has night birthed this wonder?
Who rides that milky stallion at the head of such battalia, His mantle
of purple drenched with His curls, His hands lifted high to salute little
children? Is this indeed He whose cadaver drooped last night from a cross of
cedar timbers?
Who flourish these trumpets? What Captains support Him? Ah God, can
this be true? .
THE COMMANDER COMES RIDING IN WITH TEE DAWN . . AND BEHIND HIM KIS
LEGIONS, RESPLENDENT IN SILVER!
yES, The Silvershirts are marching!
•
I Christ Men! Grin men! Men of stamina, men of nettle, . , old men, young
nen, Lords of High Courage, Chamberlains of Valor . .
THE SILVERSHIRTS ARE MARCHING!
Their war cry is the Morning.
Is it not time that we sprang erect to meet then?
What salute so nartial as the right-hand at the forehead as the Prince
of Peace approaches?
No kneelings to this Prince! . . no bowing or groveling! , . the command
is ATTENTION! . . straight bodies, lifted faces.
•VHESE are our beatitudes expressed in garbed splendor. These are our atone-
J meats, that we blend \
7ith those cordons. America has need of us! The world
awaits our pibroch.
Do wo languish for /iction? Has the Prophecy not blazoned?
Into the Silver uniform, ye challenged! Take the Mark of the Prince
upon your shoulders! Receive the Bright Accolade —
Love!
Light!
Loyalty!
Liberation!
For the morning is HERE . . and its nimbus is VICTORY!
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
W
HO in this stricken nation has not heard of The Silvershirts?
Step up to the average man on the streets today and ask him, "Have you
J J ever heard of The Silvershirts?" What will he answer in these early
months of 1936? "Sure I've he.ard of 'em. There was a crazy fool down some-
where in the South who tried to revive the Ku Klux Klan and go after the Jews.
But the government authorities fixed him. I think he got in jail."
The average nan says that because such is the perversive intelligence
that was printed in the papers. But the battle is still raging, that I started
that midnight back in 1933. And I did not land in jail, though its doors opened
for me. -----\
Far and wide across this nation in the opening months of that epochal
year went the high tocsin to America's Christian patriots to form The Silver
Legion. 258
From Maine, from Oregon, from Michigan, from Texas, cane hack the pledges
of Christian freenen to hand themselves together and clean the Great Homestead
that was the stricken United States.
^Ehe tiny lad that had stood on the knoll in sunner norning behind the
East Tenpleton parsonage and narveled at the nystery of an ant running up a
grass-stalk, the lad who had stood with Mabel beneath that wild cherry tree
while she broke off a sprig of cherry-blossons and put then in her hair, the
fellow who had lain in that Wilmington tenenent and grieved for a little white
casket to the drone of midnight saxophones, the nan who had stood with Adniral
Kolchak in faraway Siberia, who had watched the noth wobble on his table in a
Greenwich Village twilight, the nan who had beheld Svende Garde’s green carpet,
then approached the Doors of Revelation and gone through then . . what does the
world know of the innernost thoughts of such a mortal’s heart when he sounds a
bugle to a great nation and beholds the Miracle of vast hordes responding? . 71
To summon a nighty nation to a valor, to step up and take command of ft7
to feel the self-sufficiency, the formidable self-confidence, the inexorable
fortitude to assume upon one’s shoulders the lives and affairs of a hundred
nillion souls . . surely a nan must have need of a certainty of kinship with
the souls of Just Men who in every cycle have painted earth’s splendors’
.
I felt I had that kinship,
I had long in secret prepared for The Majestic Moment.
My gods had been good to me. They had taken me early and put mo to eat
at a lean and cheerless banquet. They had reared me on heartbreak, denied me
advantages that I might make them for myself. They had given ne whisperings of
sacred deeds to cone. They had shown ne The Promised Land of the Spirit, of
which there is none other grander. I had prayed in ny heart, and said it from
the rostrum: "GOD MAKE MY FUTURE HARD!"
But I said it in wisdom.
I knew what I was doing.
I was trained as an athlete to run a Great M'rrthon.
f EORGE Anderson regarded me with a face slightly frightened. "Good God, nan!
do you realize what you’re doing?"
"Perfectly," I answered.
"You go working on people’s feelings, getting them to follow you in such
numbers as these, and the first thing you know, they’ll overthrow the govern-
ment!"
"Even if that happened," I told George quietly, "I'd know exactly what
to do."
"Who gave you such knowledge?"
"That’s something I don't talk about."
"You can't blast the Jews like this. They’ll come down here and smear
us out!"
"My Lord decried that people as of the Synagogue of Satan. I’m not
afraid of Satan, And , . I've got an armor that the Jews don't know about."
"Christ's armor wasn't so much. Remember the Jews erased Him."
"Did they, George? Can you say that honestly?"
"I don't see this Silvershirt thing at all. It stirs up race preju-
dice. In makes us enemies by droves, the ugliest enemies anywhere on earth."
"I’m not thinking of the enemies. I'm thinking of the victory, You've '
got it slightly wrong, George, It's on the cards to win!"
But George was disgruntled. He didn't believe in'creating sales resis-
tance just to sell a bill of goods. I went ny own way, thinking ny own thoughts,
concerned with principles, not with expediencies. And now along with the pledges,
ny mail turned up threats.
259
"You'll be shot on sight for what you're doing'." sone of these made bold
enough to say. Usually they added diatribes containing foullest obscenities . .
"You see?" said George Anderson.
"My dear fellow," I often told him, "when people are going to kill a
. nan
they never incriminate themselves by serving him a warning in advance.
"Maybe 7
/ou want to get shot. I certainly don't."
"Nobody's going to shoot you, George. Or me, either. At least not the
people writing these letters. Remember the ancient proverb, Threatened men live
long. Remember too, George, threats are always an exhibit of weakness. Only
scored people, people not sure of their strengths or their powers to deal with
a man or situation, resort to threats."
Or Bob Summerville, being more virile, would say, "Why don't you file a
complaint with the postoffice against the senders of such letters?"
"Because I can't be bothered," I would answer him truthfully. "Do you
think the United States postoffice, being in the hands *f a Jewish administra-
tion, would do the slightest investigating in our behalf? This man Farley and
his whole crew of Russocrats would be tickled pink to have me smeared out, any-
how, because of the way I'm exposing what they're doing. Mo, Bob, . . we're
pariah for a time in our own country, and we've got to stand up to it."
"Suits me!" Bob would grin.
f\F COURSE I assumed that if Anderson reached that point in his convictions
^ that he could not sustain me, ho would come to me like a man and say so. I
could understand his disquiet, but the way was always open for him tc excuse
himself. On the contrary, however, he applied himself to his duties more assid-
uously than ever, .and the threatening letters went into the wastebasket.
I was boarding during this period with Bob and Gladys Williams. My ninety
pound mother had come down from Washington and attended every session of the Gal-
ahad summer school. But with winter approaching she had wanted to return to her
beloved Springfield, up in Massachusetts, where she had lived so many fruitful
years and had her own friends. Helen had her room at Galahad headquarters and
served as housekeeper for the premises, now bumbling daily with twenty to thirty
workers. Both offices, in New York and Washington, had now been discontinued
jnyl their furniture and fixtures moved down to Asheville.
One night in February I had been at the Biltnore Press laying out some
printing forms in type with my own hands to get a certain lay-out exactly as I
desired it. Summerville called for me with his car after a late movie and took
ne hone. I had undressed and was rending in bed. The household about me had
been asleep for hours.
Suddenly as I followed the type-lines of my book, I became consciously
awpre of an optical illusion above the top of my book and seemingly in distance.
I had a premonition not to raise ny glance. A direct look might destroy it.
That it was not a deception of overwrought vision was immediately demonstrated
in that it took on shape and movement. Out of "the top of my eye", so to speak,
I saw an upright oblong of startling whiteness, no bigger at first than a post-
age stamp seen across a room. But this little white oblong was moving toward me
and growing larger as it came. Closer and closer to the top edge of my book it
approached, enlarging swiftly in measurement. I could restrain my curiosity no
longer. 'Whether I destroyed it or not, I lifted my glance and looked at it dir-
ectly. And it did not go away! . .
I was looking squarely at the front page of a publication, about nine by
twelve inches in size, enshrouded by a background of rich black velvet. There
were two four-inch columns of type to the page. Across the top was the one clea-
word: LIBERATION. And directly beneath the date-line, in a blot of red ink, was
a decorative figure whose detail was vague. As I stared, the "illusion" vanished
260
I felt a queer prickle of shock up ny hack.
Up from the "bed I got, at two in the norning. I put on ny clothes and
went down through the house. I walked the nile to the printshop afoot. And
as I noved through the silent sleeping streets of Asheville, I knew with every
step I took that somehow or other I was making American history.
I had to catch the fomat of that publication in type on paper before
I could sleep, before exact details faded from my memory.
I worked all that night, locked into that printshop by myself. At eight
o'clock next morning, astonished workmen came to work. And lying on imposing-
stones were the actualized pages of an imminent periodical.
"What is it?" they asked.
I said, "It's the new weekly organ of The Silver Legion. Follow that
npke-up exactly as I've specified. Merely change the text-matter week after
week."
Thus on the eighteenth day of February the first number of Liberation
Weekly went abroad through the nation,
Galahad Press end The League for the Liberation were finished with, how.
Galahad College had become The Liberation Fellowship end was crystalized in a
♦ literature which students might procure down a hundred years. I had given our
American people a renovetod Christian message. I had made available a more
truthful History of Society then was anywhere taught in corrupted schools and
colleges. Now I was equipi^ed and ready to enter into the final phase of that
orevet for which I had been preparing for nearly forty years.
I must actualize in society a
. true liberation. I must give to the nation
not only a political and economic philosophy as well, but I must take active
leadership and see that both were consummated.
I was not merely hearing Lillian's Big Drums now. I nust march in the
aidst of them, forge toward the front of them, perchance seize the baton that
led them down the stars . ,
\
c'OH men were "joining up" . .
J Frop Massachusetts and Montana, from Florida, from Idaho, from Ohio, Penn-
sylvania, Texas, 'Washington, Illinois and California, the Silver Legionaires
were responding to my tocsin. It was an awe-inspiring thing.
I ha.d known that the nation was disgruntled with the encroaching caste
of Jewry. I had never appreciated that it hungered for leadership like this.
Yet had the prophecy bank there in New York not stated; "When the young painter
cones to power in Germany, take that as your time signal to launch your organ-
ization." There was substance to such prophecies. They were not idle vaporings
of the subconscious mind. And always and forever in the back of my thinking
was the radiant culmination . . I must "sit upon an iceberg, in the center of a
sea of hostile humanity" , . and then something happened! . . something that
melted that iceberg "in n night" and put the American people behind me to a man.
If all the points of the three-fold prophecy had cone true to date, what cause
had I for disbelieving that the climax would not sometime accrue as well?
Yet I knew my history and biography of those who up the centuries had
sought to bring mankind an obvious benefaction. In the exact ratio that they
succeeded in altering men's concepts for the better, the cohorts of the evil-
ninded, the vicious, the menaced, the "darkly devouring", .yew in numbers and
influence and dug black pits beneath them. I was deliberately inviting all the
calumny and vengeance that The Synagogue of Satan could summon up against me.
"We've stopped bigger men than Pelley," had been the substance of that threat
to young Rardwicke in Washington. Only now I believe I knew what these Mamr.on-
ites did not, . . the t$ne was arriving in the cycles of the ages when they were
to know terrible and lasting Defeat AND THEIR PO.GSR BE FINALLY BROKEN!
261
Insolent evil was not to have its conspiring way forever. My Eldey
Brother had told us back there in Galilee, "Go ye into the world and preach
the gospel AS A WITNESS unto all nations, . . and then shall I cone! . . verily
I say unto you, there are those among you who shall not taste of Death until I
cone again." No theologian could ever explain that, except by childish literal -
ities. But after that night on the Mojave, I knew what my wise Elder Brother
had meant.
Over in the valley of the Nile was the Pillar of Enoch, "the Bible in
stone". It had recorded and preserved in stone over fifty centuries the unalter-
able fiats of the Immortal Causation. It had definite things to say about what
should happen in this, our Cycle.
On the 11th day of March, at nine in the evening, I was busy at my type-
writer in the ea,st wing of the building. Bob Summerville came in. He held in
his hands a letter and a pamphlet. The letter was from Professor David Davidson,
the eminent Great Pyramid authority. It had come in for Robert that evening
from England.
"Chief," he asked whimsically, "have you ever seen this monograph of
Davidson's on his interpretations of these current Pyramid dates? . . for in-
stance, January 31st?"
"No," I said truthfully.
"Take a look at the publication-date on this booklet first. Note that
it was published two years ago, in March, 1931."
"I see. What of it?"
"Now read what Davidson has to say about the significance of January
thirty-first."
I read what Bob indicated. I am sorry I do not ha.ve the booklet before
ne as I writo, nor is it immediately procurable. But hundreds of ny readers
ary have it in their possession. "On this date in America," the paragraph said
in substance, "is conceived (in the obstetrical sense) the seeds of the new
theocratic State throughout the earth, which will lie in secret germination in
the body-politic as in a woman's womb until September 16, 1936."
There was more to the notation. But again the psychic shock traveled up
ay spine . '
.
On January 31st throughout America I had proclaimed The Silver Legion.
And the piece de resistance of The Silver Legion was the ultimate setting up of
The Christian Commonwealth. Already I had circulated throughout the growing
ranks of The Legionaircs the thought-provoking booklet, "what Kind of Govern-
ment is The Christ to Set Up?" My manuscript for the first edition of the vol-
ume "No More Hunger", describing this Christian Commonwealth in utmost detail,
up8 being cast in type and would presently be issued. No other "conception"
had occurred in the United States on January 31st but this founding of The
Legion . . the calendar date otherwise was a mediocre blank.
What could I think? . .
Yes, plenty of trouble was ahead. The same type of mob, made frenzied
by machinations of the same stripe of plotter, was to cry "Crucify himi Cruci-
fy him!" in my case, as had shrieked in my Lord's. Jell, what of that? Me had
not gone through with it to become famed of men. There was a higher purpose
being served. Judah, the Man of Old, must ultimately be "bound" and his mis-
chief be ended in the hearts and lives of men. And some of us had to take the
nud-balls and scourges, the calumnies and persecutions, that the record of that
"binding" might live as a
. tradition. If it were engraved on basalt rock, fifty
centuries in the past, then all was fore«rdainment, no matter what men said.
So I published "No More Hunger" . . and The Silver Legion swelled . . and
Liberation Weekly rang its tocsin through tho nation. i \
And I knew mine own calumny, in that I did so . . . yet I felt in my own \
spirit that I was part of something BIG',
262
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
P
EOPLE in general, I find, are annoyingly limited in their understandings of
what a leader with my motivations confronts and experiences when he seeks
to bring society a new spiritual, philosophical, or political concept and
actualize it permanently with human materials. The common notion is, that if
a man originates or is given a new program for improving the lives of his fel-
lows, and is reasonably magnetic or clever in personality, he merely gathers
about him those amenable to his ideas and these form a yeast-like cell that
proceeds to give leaven to the social loaf in tha.t degree to which his ideas
or recommendations have popular appeal. An organization, to the average person,
is a matter of officers and members, by-laws and dues. It is believed that no
one comes into an organization unless he believes as well in all the principles
which it represents. If he endorses such principles, of course he proposes to
abide by the regulations laid down by someone for the conduct of the whole.
For a quarter-century, as my reader has noted, I had been dealing with
human nature in its practical aspects. I had handled it as an employer, I had
met with it in newspaper work. In the Orient I had gone to war with it. For
fifteen of those twenty-five years I had also written about it copiously —
certainly a novelist whoso writings had earned him between a quarter and a half-
million dollars might legitimately claim that he "knew" human nature. So I had
accepted, thinking little more about it.
Now, while I was on the quest of Something Big in the social sense, I was
likewise to discover that my erudition in the matter of knowing human nature in
the idealistic sense was about two degrees higher than an infant in arms.
Boiled down to its essential fundamentals, this gesture that I was making
was a departure in Pure Idealism. I use the term Pure in this connection to dis-
tinguish the brand ^f idealism in which I was working from that muddy idealism
that is more truthfully a superficial jingoism or commercialized sentimentality.
America has experienced many Movements for the improving of spiritual, moral, or
economic conditions, and generally speaking the leaders of such have been ex-
pediently sincere. But sooner or later ea.ch has died out or assumed the aspects
of a racket. I had never bothered to ask myself why such Movements so ended.
On the whole, I was far too busy in this new Silver Legion, promoting the prin-
ciples which it sought to actualize, to go into digressions of its effects on
those about me. We had a sizable and ugly job ahead of us to do, purging the
nation of its colossal miscreants, projecting and materializing a program of
economic betterment, and remaking America as we could to more aptly comply with
the notions of the forefathers. So, at least, it stacked up to me. So, I as-
sumed, it stacked up to others. If it did not so stack up to others, meaning
specifically those who were riding along with me deeper and deeper into the work,
they would naturally say so, or exhibit it in conduct. So long as they kept
silent, or put forth motive effort, my conclusion was allowable that they wero
"with me" as a unit.
Now the months were at hand when wholly new departments in human nature
were to open to my gaze. I was to unlearn many of the fatuous beliefs that had
been my writing raw-stock. I was to find out in instance after instance that
there were as many brands of Idealism as there were persons in the nation, that
each individual specializes in Idealism b’
i
t doesn’t always know it, that just
because a man founds an organization it by no means gives him license to consider
it his property.
People encounter a disagreeable condition in lifo and seek to have it al-
tered. A man comes along and proposes his changes. It is alteration a
.
s altera-
tion in which numbers are first interested. But the founder of the Movement very
rarely stops to grasp it. He only beholds great numbers of human beings flock-
263
ing about his standard. In the fervor of materializing his remedial measures he
takes things for granted which do not exist. He overlooks or ignores the fact
that the one great reason why all men and women are in life is to experience self-
expression. Undoubtedly the conditions which ha.ve prompted them to rally to his
standard have suppressed self-expression. More popularly speaking, these aro
called Curtailed Liberties. So the cohorts come in. The very motives that have
turned them his way, resentment at curtailed liberties, will sooner or later pro-
duce confusions and schisms within his own ranks. Each and every man or woman
who has anything vital to do with the Movement, wants to express himself. He
wants to express himself within the Movement. He doesn't particularly care what
form that expression takes. But it must truly be expression. Doing things with
hand or brain is net enough. The private personality must so impress itself up-
on the ranks that all others take note of it. If this cannot be connived over a
period of time, one of two things will happen. Either the recruit, or the lead-
er's associate, will lose his enthusiasm and finally drift away, or he will start
an indignant protest that the Movement is not being properly conducted, that nat-
ters with the leader are not as they should be, that the leader is an ass or se-
cretly incompetent and hoodwinking the public. Disgruntlement at conditions
which brought them into the ranks is taken for granted and ignored. Personal
ambition in greater or lesser degree, merely this item of Desire for Expression,
assumes the form of a certain continual plotting for ascendency which is not al-
ways recognized for that which it is. And as men are big or small in their own
concepts, so these aspirations will work unwitting mischief in matters big or
small as they are given opportunity.
People, I say, become interested in such a Movement as I had founded to
ease their di sgruntlement at life as they encountered it. Whereupon, having
gotten into the Movement they translate their altered status as the relief its-
elf, not the instrument toward the general relief, and set about orienting them-
selves according to capabilities. Hero and there one person in a thousand act-
ually grasps the fact that the Movement is not the relief but the means toward a
relief. These as a body constitute the associates on which a leader may rely.
They will work with him, labor earnestly and loyally, and await their rewards
when the relief has been achieved.
But back in 1933 I was an infant in arms at perceiving this clearly. I
was immediately intoxicated with gratification that the nation held such numbers
of excellent people willing to support me in bettering the country according to
my policies. I did not know that I had to go through a concentrated and inten-
sified period of education, treating with human nature in its more subtle a,spects.
I made the blunder which I have seen nauiy novices make since, of assuming that
those who stayed with me and labored about me day upon day accepted the Movement
as I had conceived it, the means to an end, not the end in itself.
My first correction in this assumption was supplied by George Anderson . .
jM1
|EN of character, whose avowals and credentials were beyond reproach, were
responding to my appeals for State organizers from every quarter of the
country. It was purely to encourage them in their field work and enable then
to support their dependents and pay their traveling expenses, that I placed an
entrance fee on the admission of Silver Legionaires and arranged to pay such
organizers a legitimate and reasonable part of it. After all, I had no angel
behind this maneuver, regardless of the insane claims being everywhere made by
Jews that I was secretly receiving subsidies from Adolf Hitler for starting an
American branch of the Nazis. I had to build this tremendous organization and
promote its activities on more or less volunteer contributions, for even nember-
bership fees were nothing else. People weren't obliged to belong to The Legion
They applied for affiliation as its principles appealed to then. After they were
264
in, it took money to service them, pay headquarters overhead, and maintain our
publications. Growing personally wealthy from such resources was the last idea
that had entered my mind. Carrying on a membership racket, for which the Jews at
once arraigned me, was equally preposterous and unthought-of. Throughout the
whole course of The Silver Legion I received in money an average of $35 a week,
a fact attested by my tax reports to the federal government. This princely sal-
ary, not so much as Anderson was drawing, barely covered my personal expenses
at ny Asheville boarding-place, the cost of supporting my 90-pound mother in
Springfield, and the somewhat poignant suns I was able to send from tine to tine
to ny boy and girl. For this had I relinquished a salary of $600 weekly . .
Racketeering, indeed! . . Our Jewish critics never made it clear to the public
t.at the $10 eharged for membership in The Legion and the $1 per month dues ex-
actly covered the costs ef servicing such member and no more. When I discerned
that thousands of good men were being kept out of the ranks because they lacked
such funds due to national impoverishment, I took the step of cancelling all en-
trance fees and depending solely on modest public donations. We called the fund
nnde up of these, the War Chest . .
George Anderson worked zealously and laboriously to keep that War Chest
filled. He had to provide for Liberation Weekly, steadily mounting in circula-
tion, keep The Liberation Fellowship students serviced, and answer a prodigious
business correspondence accruing from the field. After his first protest to me
that The Silver Legion might be seditiously interpreted by some, he had never
nentioned it again. One night, however, he cane down to ny private office in
the east wing of the building from his own quarters on the second floor. And
Andersen was angry.
"I don't often make a request such as I'm making now," he announced, "but
if I'm staying on here as Business Comptroller, I want Marion Henderson dis-
charged! "
I glanced up from ny evening work at ny typewriter. "Discharged!" I
echoed. "Why Marion Henderson? V7hat's she been doing?"
"Snooping around ny personal desk! I can't stand her, anyhow. I want
her kicked out."
A word about the girl to whom he referred . .
During the run of the Galahad summer school one of thestudents, a certain
Dr. Sumner, had made a week-end trip home to Indianapolis. When he returned on
Monday he brought several people with him. Among then was a dark-eyed, soft-
spoken, eager-mannered young woman with a romantic dash of white in her coal-
black hair and an avid desire motivating her to serve the Movement as she could,
i
/
a
s it possible to find a secretarial place for her to compensate for her tui-
tion?Ever since the departure of Joyce Benner I had worked beneath a handicap
trying to keep abreast of the detail that swamped me. Joyce, as I have said,
was one of those rare persons with a genius for pacing a busy executive, figur-
atively knowing exactly what he wanted before ho wanted it, eliminating non-
essentials, yet always keeping live wires open to his desk, I had felt that the
loss of her was a variety of tragedy. Where on seven continents would I ever
find her duplicate? Now I interviewed Miss Henderson. I gave her some test
work. In less than a week I knew God had been good to me. Marion was Joyce
multiplied three-fold . .
Strange indeed it seems to me at tines, that a nan in ny position draws
such super-competents into his affairs. Glancing back now over six years of
effort, I can discern that at every step of the way when I truly needed a per-
son of given capabilities to fill a complicated function, always such person
has appeared as by magic. I knew I had made small effort to locate these peo-
ple. Always they had come to no, and when they had announced themselves I felt
that everything was Right. It long has surpassed the bounds of coincidence.
265
By the tine that Galahad sunner school had closed, and considerably "before
the appearance of Anderson, I perceived that in annexing Marion Henderson I had
supplied nyself not with a nere secretary "but with an institution. Gracious in
disposition, as conscientious as she was capable, loyal to fanaticisn, Marion
handled ny personal affairs week after week without slip or falter. Her grasp
on detail was prodigious yet not once a month did she ever lose her poise. Thus
did she recall to me another loyal laborer: all too apparent it quickly became
t
o ne that Marion like Beryl was a pivot. Soon the whole Silver Legion movement,
insofar as office management was concerned, or at least my function in it, was
turning about Miss Henderson. She grew lean and pale-faced at the crush of dut-
ies on her. My Goldcn-Eead grew worried. Marion would break down beneath her
mounting burden. But Helen was wrong. Marion did not break down, she was broken
down. And it took a brutal and vulgar Jewish Congressman to do it, putting her
through a typical Third Degree with the full weight of the federal government to
do it to make her divulge to him "secrets" of The Legion, and my relationships
with Hitler, which never existed. More of that later , .
This was the super-associate whom the bumptious Anderson now insisted
should be "fired" . . He stood about as much chance of obtaining my acquiescence
as obtaining my consent to letting him take a pencil and poke out my eye. Helen,
Boh Summerville, and Marion, made a triumvirate that only tragedy could smash.
Our relationships were karmic. They were something that was Written before the
quartette of us were born.
"You must be mistaken, George," I parried. "Marion would never ’snoop’
about your desk."
"I’m not going to argue. I want that girl fired!"
"Well, you can’t have her fired," I answered him quietly. "Furthermore,
your attitude, George, takes a lot for granted. After all, Marion is not in
your department. She's been with no slightly longer than you have, and I value
her too highly to dispense with her services to satisfy your grudge."
"I see," said George, a veiled expression passing across his eye. "You're
telling ne she's more valuable to you than I an. Is that it? I insist upon an
answer."
"You're scarcely in a position to’insist’ on anything. But . . Marion is
super-valuable, . . make of that what you will."
"This building, and this Movement, isn’t big enough for the two of us,"
was his final ultumatin. "If you don’t fire Marion Henderson, I’ll know just
where I sit,"
"I rather think," I answered, annoyed by his interruption as much as by
his manner, "you’re scarcely conducting yourself as becomes your sox and years.
You think Marion's been snooping around your desk. It night interest you to
know that I despatched Marion upstairs to look for a certain clip of mail on
your desk while you were absent this evening uptown. You took it from my desk
and I wanted it back. Don't be so potty. I’m concerned with bigger things."
"I told you," flared George openly now, "that I don't like the girl and
I won't have her ’round!"
"You act," I said grimly, "as though you'd been making advances to the
young woman and she'd repelled you. Have you?"
He whirled around at that, and stalked from the building.
"I don't like it," said Helen, who had heard the whole sequence from her
Housekeeper's Room which opened from my office. "Anderson's mad about something
deeper than a snoop about his desk."
"Forget it," I ordered. "If he wants to resign, he's not held here by
force."
But George Anderson did not resign. Next morning he was back and his
disgruntlement was vanished. I had another sort cf trouble to engage ny etten-
266
tion in the days and weeks that followed. This trouble was with nail.
Bob Sunnerville was first to bring it to ny notice.
"I'n writing the nost important letters to sone of our State loaders,"
he complained, 'hand none of then are answering. I could understand a delay
from one, two, or six. But when nen aren't replying fron whole sections of the
country, there's a
. fish-hook in it somewhere."
"That's right," I reflected. I leaned back in ray chair and considered
the letters I had sent forth nysolf. Only a dribble of replies wore returning.
"Is it possible," I said, "that Jews in the postoffice are brazen enough to
intercept our nail?"
I went upstairs to Anderson. It was late in the evening. The nan was
drawn-faced, sitting at his books, figuring and refiguring "to nako both ends
neet" . .
"George," I asked, dropping down in the chair adjacent to his desk, "are
you noticing any sudden disruption to our nail?"
"I'n noticing plenty of disruption to receipts. Look at these revenues.
They're only one-half of what they were last month,"
"Have you got any nail upstairs here, that you haven't turned over to
Bob or nyself? We're particularly concerned about sone answers fron Los
Angeles."
George pointed to a wooden basket on the table behind hin. "Those are
all the letters up here that haven't had attention. They all pertain to busi-
ness not in your department,"
I reached for the sheaf and hastily ran it through. True as he had said,
I had snail interest in then.
WHAT WAS THE SUDDEN PSYCHOMETRIC REACTION I HAD THAT SOMETHING WAS ALL
TONG? . .
"When you go up to the bank in the morning," I directed, "get ne fifty
dollars. I'n going up to Washington and perhaps Philadelphia. A chap named
Harry Seiber has written no several tines from Philadelphia wanting to become
Pennsylvania stn.te organizer. If I can't got replies fron ny answers to hin,
I can go that far and see hin."
"You oughtn't to be running about the country spending money with our
finances so short!"
"I'n the best judge of that. You bring down ny oxponscs."
I returned to ny office ?.nd wrote certain letters personally, particular-
ly to Los Angeles and our California leader, Sorenson.
I have received innumerable complaints fron you and your nen,
(I typed), that correspondence and remittances despatched to Ashe-
ville have not had attention. All next week I shall be in Phila-
delphia, at the address herewith appended to ny signature. I main-
tain there nust be sone interception of correspondence and would ap-
preciate you communicating with ne personally at Philadelphia, giv-
ing ne full history of the items in controversy. I want to find out
if the stoppage is in Asheville,I
I nailed this letter personally and next norning motored northward.
At five o'clock of a late Juno afternoon, all the world dripping fron a passing
shower, a rotund, round-faced, pleasant-spoken nan of about ny own years, iron-
jray hair close-cropped to his head, sought ne out in a Philadelphia suburb
where I was staying with friends.
"I'n Harry Seiber," he introduced hinself.
Graven lines of worry made his eyes bilious. His manner was hectic.
I knew at a glance that his burden was heavy.
267
"The Depression's cleaned ne out," he told ne later that evening. "At
the tine of the Crash I was president and nana.ger of a Philadelphia, hank. I
had an eighty thousand dollar hone and ny future all set. Now ny family's down
in a New Jersey cottage with the rent due for weeks. I*n a little hit desper-
ate." Tears flooded his eyes and dripped down his chin.
Ne discussed possibilities for The Silver Legion in the State of Pennsyl-
vania. We talked about publishing a Philadelphia tabloid to pronote the Legion's
principles. I liked the little nan, and as he told ne his troubles ny conpas-
sion went out to hin. It was a tragic thing for a personage who had formerly
been a bank president to find himself pulling doorbells from door to door, try-
ing to get subscriptions to a fraternal magazine. It was all part of what The
Washington Gang had done to our Christian country, however. It had to be faced
and vigorously renedied. We discussed correspondence.
"I've nailed you three letters to Asheville within the past fortnight,"
he assured ne.
I said, "We never got one of then. That's why I cone up."
"Something's wrong somewhere!"
"Things are getting BAD. And they're going to get worse before they get
better. You go hone and tell your wife that we'll hit off a deal. I'll wire
Anderson tonight to send no up a copy of the lists of all The Silvershirts in
Pennsylvania. Tomorrow we'll visit Philadelphia printers. An energetic Silver-
shirt tabloid will give you a position more fitted to your abilities."
"I'd like you to meet ny wife," Seiber said at parting. "Couldn't you
cone down and visit us at Absecon, over the 4th?"
I said that I night.
Next day we made printing arrangements for the Philadelphia paper. Two
days went past without any word from Anderson. Seiber and I were in need of
those names.
One afternoon at the end of the week, the postman brought two letters
up to the veranda where Seibor and I were conferring on our project. One was
an airmail, just arrived from California. The other, I saw at a glance, was
from Anderson. I tore the western letter first . .
You say you have not received letters and remittances from
ne (wrote Sorenson). I'm enclosing you carbon copies of
the past month's nail to Asheville. But I'm enclosing more.
Herewith you'll find photostats of a dozen bank cheques ex-
tending back for at least six weeks, remittances to Asheville
for which my men out here have received neither certificates
or goods. You'll note they were endorsed by you and deposi-
ted. I'n sorry to be curt, but evidence is evidence.
0
I glanced at the heavy folding of photostats. They showed cheques made
out to me, with ny name in endorsement on the backs of then all. IN GEORGE
-iNDERSON'S PENMANSHIP! One cheque in particular was for $35. I had recalled
asking Anderson about a $35 item from the Coast and he had cooler denied know-
ing anything about it. I tore open his letter , .
I have received your request (he wrote) to send you list
of names of Pennsylavnia Silvershirts. I do not consider
it advisable to permit the lists to go out of Headquarters,
Sorry to inconvenience you but I've made up my mind.
A brusque, four-line letter! To ne, his employer! My reaction was
caloric. I said to Seiber, "You told ne, I think, that you'd been an account-
ant?" 268
"I'll say I have!"
"Do you wont to cone down to North Carolina with ne and examine some
books?"
"What hooks?"
"The Silver Legion's hooks'. One of these days I'll learn to obey ny
notapsychical hunches. I've felt for several weeks that something's heon wrong
with this fellow Anderson. Now these letters prove it."
"What are you going to do?"
"I'n going hack to Asheville and you're going with me. I'll drive down
through New Jersey, look in at your hone, and allow you to got your bags. Then
in passing through Washington we'll pick up Bert Ward. Bert's been ny attorney
since 1931. He's never liked Anderson and warned me against hin, Wo'11 all go
t
o Asheville $nd arrive unnannounced."
"What about the tabloid. I've got to have a job." Again Seiber1s voice
was thick with The Burden . ,
"You've got a job. Right now. You can go on the payroll tfre nonent of
our arrival. We'll postpone the tabloid till this petty mystery's solved."
r THEL SEIBER, Harry's wife, was a Beautiful Woman. I capitalize the tern in
L the utmost sincerity. She was Juno-esque in build and physical carriago,
poised and intelligent, the mother of three children. Two of these children were
almost full-grown.
Mrs. Seiber took her husband's announcement of a North Carolina sojourn
graciously but worriedly. The family was destitute. The youngest boy was bare-
foot because he lacked shoes. Ejection faced all of then for non-payment of
rent. I applied the financial stop-gap as I could, Harry packed a bag, and we
left that night for Washington.
Bert Ward, ny attorney, big-bodied, assertive, dark-eyed and capable,
listened to ny story and nodded approvingly. Bert, originally an Oregonian,
had been Alien Property Custodian under Calvin Coolidgo. He too know account-
ing, "You're coning to your senses," he declared when I was done. "I've had
ny reservations about Anderson ever since I met hin."
Wo left ny roadster in Washington and shifted to Bert's sedan. All the
next day we rode down across Virginia, into North Carolina, and finally after
nidnight drew up in Asheville,
Night lights wore burning in Headquarters when we drew up in front. I
took out ny keys and let myself in. Bob Summerville was the only one living on
the premises, but I wanted to be certain that Anderson was hone.
The building was tenantless. Bob, we learned presently, had gone up to
the movies and not yet returned. Seiber and Ward went with me abovestairs.
"What we want to do first," said Ward, "is to check these photostats with
Anderson's books. Lot's see if they're entered. Where ARE the books?"
"Locked in George's desk. But before George took this desk, it happened
to be mine. I've still got a key."
"I'n asking you," said Ward, "in the presence of Seiber, if I've got your
authority to open this desk?"
"You certainly have," I answered with vigor.
Bert drew forth the cashbook from George's center drawer. Two letters
fell out with it and dropped on the rug. "This is funny," said Seiber, "they
seen to be unopened,"
He handed them across to me and I glanced at their postmarks. Both wore
from the West and dated two weeks back. "This drawer seems to have quite a lot
of mail in it," ny attorney was saying as I slit both the envelopes and remittances
foil out.
"Clean it!" I ordered what's in it."
Bert pulled out twenty to thirty letters, all unopened, and tossed then
on the blotter. "Ke nust have gotten a nail delivery at the postoffice and for-
gotten to examine it," said Harry.
"I'm going to look in these other drawers," said Ward to ne, "with ycur
Demission." He pulled out the left-hand bottom drawer. "Good Lord! . . LOOK
AT THIS!"
The drawer was so full of unopened nail that letters were crunplcd in
pulling it forth. I examined their postmarks. They were days a.nd weeks old.
Bob Summerville arrived while this probing was in process. He cane in,
somewhat scared, to find strangers in that office. Then he saw ne, and I point-
ed to the letters. "Great heavens!" cried Bob, recognizing penmanship. "Here
are the replies to correspondence I've worried about for weeks!"
"Get an eyeful of this!" Bert Ward interrupted. He had drawn forth the
left-hand top drawer.
It was bulging with letters, days and weeks old, opened and laid flat.
And every letter in that drawer ha.d a banknote or posta.l order carefully append-
ed. Later we added the totals of the sums. They amounted approximately to a
thousand dollars. But not a cheque among them. The cheques, it appeared, had
teen carefully collected . .
We continued to turn out nail. Anderson's desk was a mammoth chest of it.
Nine-tenths was unopened. Seiber said finally, "Do you suppose he's been secret-
ing nail anywhere else besides in his desk?"
In a twelve-foot bookcase on the room's east side we found boxes, files,
and^ private brief-case, all stuffed with more letters. Bob brought two great
corrugated boxes from the basement,
FOUR THOUSAND LETTERS THUS SECRETED HAD ALMOST BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN WRECK-
ING THE SILVER LEGION! . .
It took six clerks ten days to even sort and read then.
W
HEN George Anderson went to the postoffico to get more nail as usual next
morning, he discovered a plug in The Silver Legion's lock.
"What's the large idea?" he demanded of the mail clerk.
"Sorry," said the latter. "Mr. Pclley*s orders!"
"But Pelley's up north!"
"No, he returned to town last night."
Anderson hurried out to his car and broko most Asheville speed-laws get-
ting to Headquarters. He encountered Bert Ward in charge of the premises and
Seiber at a table going over his books. With scarcely a word to Ward, George
stalked to his desk and yanked open its drawers. The desk was as barren as the
day it was delivered.
His face went chalk-white.
"By whose orders-
- " he began.
"Take it easy, Anderson," was his warning from Ward. "You're somewhat on
the spot. Looks to me that for some reasons of your own, you've done your level
best to smash this Silver Legion. Any Jews paying you for this silly maneuver?"
"N-No . . b«-but you may pay . . handsomely . . for what you've done . . "
"Be a nice boy," Lawyer Ward counselled him. "Don't call any names, or
anything like that. Before the day's over you may find yourself locked up!"
Anderson, who had given indications of striking Ward for a moment, winced
at this announcement. He went over and sat down. Such was the tableau into
which I walked.
"Well, George," I greeted him, "it becomes rather clear just why you ob-
jected to Marion 'snooping' around your desk."
"You'd better not try to go anywhere, Anderson," Lawyer Ward ordered.
"Supnose we all adjourn to the Council Room. We'll need y^ur explanation."
270
CHAPTEE NINETEEN
\
TWOFOLD purpose has been served in cluttering this narrative with such
picayune detail. First, I have wanted to get out to four thousand readers
of this biography, who were also those correspondents and writers of these
letters, exactly what happened in this vital stage of the Legion’s work back in
1933. The episode, hitherto explained but sketchily, is now part and parcel of
The Silvershirt tradition. Second, it serves to illustrate the peculiar reactions
of such a Movonont on the individual tenperanent of a nan like George Anderson.
For two hours Ward and Seiber grilled him in the Council Ro o d while I sat by and
listened.
Why had ho done it? . . as Treasurer of the project he was accountable
for its finances . . if clerks openod the nail with currency in it, they night
have tenptation put in their way to filch it . . he preferred to handle such
natters hinself and sinply hadn’t gotten around to opening so nuch nail or mak-
ing out acknowledgments . .His alibi was so lane and silly that we were all of
us disgusted.
’
'You’ll find nothing missing," was his final cryptic utterance,
"With four thousand letters in your desk, why didn’t you advise Mr. Pel-
ley?" asked Ward, "a s a hard-headed businessman you knew very well that to
bottle up correspondence so would result in catastrophe."
Anderson had no answer. He merely shrugged his shoulders . .
At the end of six days the tie-up wp.s cleared.
"Well," said Anderson cheerily, intruding in my office on the seventh
norning with his former camaraderie, "what do I do next? You've got Seiber*s
attestment that there's not a cent of shortage."
"But I haven't ever had your attestnent as to just why you did it."
"I told you. I was overworked — "
"Are you trying to tell me that after the way you walked the floor
nights, and made appeals for the War Chest, that you were totally unnindful of
drawer upon drawer of remittances in your desk? Aren't you aware that if you're
not in the pay of a
. crowd of Jews, you're acting psychopathically?"
He stared at ne blankly. Finally he said, "I’ve never liked the job be-
ing Treasurer, anyhow. What I'd like better is a job in the field."
"My dear follow," I said, "apparently it's not dawned on you that your
usefulness is done. I brought you here from Buffalo and I won't turn you out
penniless down here. You con see the new cashier and draw enough money to re-
turn you, with wife and daughter, t o --- "
"You don't n-nean I'm FIRED!" In a whisper ho added, "If you do that,
you'll be sorry."
"Is that a throat, George?"
"No, no, just a warning."
"We're all washed up, Anderson. And I'm trying to live ny Christian
principles by not taking action against you for the damage you came near doing,
or have n.ctually achieved."
lie started to argue, to appeal to my sympathies.
"GET OUT!" I ordered him.
The next day he tried to involve one of our young women in a criminal
complication, coaxing her to filch certain important documents from the archives
and deliver them to him. She came and reported the man's proposition. 7
»
o
instructed her to get the documents and keep her appointment. A private detect-
ive followed her, to arrest Anderson in the moment of receiving them.
Anderson failed to meet the girl and we lot the-matter drop.
A year or so later, this was the gentleman who sat with the State's pros-
ecution in the Buncombe Ceunty court room and assiduously counselled with the
271
lawyers who were doing their utmost to send ne to prison. The zeal with which
he testified against no, the fraternity that was apparent "between hin and ny
prosecutors, made painfully obvious the prosecution's character. Incidentally
ho was exempted from answering any questions as to how he became disconnected
from Legion Headquarters. He managed to convey to the jury that he had resigned
for dark and mysterious reasons having to do with Headquarter's "irregularities".
He did not specify just what these wore, or that he had made them instead of my-
self . . As the reader will see, it was that kind of "trial" . .
Seiber stayed on in Asheville and took Anderson's place. The Silver Legion
was growing in night. One August day, while visiting my friend Louis McFadden
in Washington, Marion Henderson sent ne a wire,
A party of men were driving up to Asheville from Louisiana and urgently
wished to see ne. Notable among then was the Rev. Gerald K. Smith, later to
achieve some notoriety as orator at the funeral of the murdered Huey Long . .
*f'H2 Reverend Gerald Smith was a big-bodied, dynamic young nan, with a wife as
J dainty as his voice was bombastic. He was pastor of a church in Shreveport,
I learned, but had read ny many writings and was moved to be a Silvershirt. He
was the sort of modern pastor who walks bareheaded in rain and breathes deeply
and with gusto. During a two-day visit at Headquarters, during which tine he,
end his wife, and his brother-in-law, all became Silvcrshirts, he perpetually
nursed a walking-stick.
This hatless young nan — with the pretty wife and the walking-stick —
had been accompanied to Asheville by one "Major" Luther Powell, a gaunt and bald-
headed man in tortoise-shell spectacles, whom I later learned to have been en-
gaged in Ku Klux Klan work in the far Northwest. What did these want? Not to
put too fine a point upon it, the Reverend Gerald proposed to give up his Shreve-
port church and with Pewell's assistance organize the entire Mississippi Valley
for The Silvershirts.
It was their proposition.
I sat and listened.
My days were filled with negotiations in this sort of thing, The Legion
was growing so fast and so far that I was increasingly desperate . . desperate
for capable leaders to take charge of the horde and effect the discipline with-
out which success would bo abortive.
"Pay me a salary sufficient to keep my wife while I'm away," declaimed
the Reverend Gerald, "and I'll rosign from my church and start straight up the
Mississippi Valley, publicizing this Legion to crowds on street corners. My
idea is to recruit a cavalcade in Louisiana, to march through the country
dressed in Silver Legion uniform, to sleep in the open and get this to the
nasses,"
"Fair enough if you've got the nerve," I told him. He failed to im-
press me as a man of sound ballast. Still, persons of his temperament have
their places in this work. Ho gonld do little damage and not a little good.
Thus I entered into contractual relations with the Reverend Gerald.
He and Powell were to organize Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Missouri, and
Iowa, for The Silver Legion,
Headquarters was strangely silent when the Reverend Smith departed . .
Presently came a night telegram, which Marion brought to ny desk with a
smile. She remarked, "Our minister Boy Friend is waxing quite dramatic," This
night wire read —
WE ARE STARTING. IF WE FALL, PITY US. IF WE SUCCEED,
REWARD US. IF WE FAIL, SIAY US. SMITE
272
i
"Messy job, slaying him," I remarked, to Marion. "Let’s hope he succeeds."
But from the moment of receiving that wire, I knew he would not succeed.
I took ny carbon of his contract from my desk. I said to Miss Henderson, "Put
i
t away in our file of curios. We won’t be needing it,"
And sure enough, we didn't.
When I got down into Shreveport a month or so later, I found from the boys
there exactly what had happened.
The Reverend Gerald had recruited and intrigued then to go with him on
his sojourn. Getting up into Arkansas, he held a couple of meetings on street
corners. Angry Jews began to buzz around him like hornets. Suddenly the Rever-
end Gerald decided it was much nicer to inveigh against the country’s despoilers
from the safe altar rails of a Christian church.
He hoppdd the first 'bus that came along pointed southward, and left his
earnest young crowd of spunky Silvershirts to get back to Shreveport in any ways
they could.
The next I heard of him, he was waving his arms all over Louisiana for
Senator Long and his Share-the-Wealth Clubs.
I did not slay him.
D
URING the middle of August cane a strange convocation of Silvershirt leaders
at Asheville. I describe it as strange in that it was not premedita.ted nor
arranged for. Suddenly it seemed that from all points of the compass, State
organizers and district leaders converged on Headquarters. From as fan dis-
tant as Idaho they came.
We held a three-day session.
"The tine has cone," they argued to me, "to split the work of The Legion
into Eastern and Western Divisions. We need a Headquarters sot somewhere beyond
the Mississippi. This eastern work, out of Asheville, is quite all right as an
academic leadership of a sort, but the western Shirts want ACTION!"
"What sort of action?" I inquired. I thought I knew but wanted to hear
then say it. Mrs, Leslie's prophecy, back in 1929, was maturing to the dot.
"If we took some western State . . say Oklahoma . . and set up a Silver-
shirt Encampment, we could draw in the boys who are spoiling for a brawl from
Kansas City to Seattle, and keep then out of mischief till the tine cones for
defending the nation from the Reds. Moreover, we could train then to handle
nen under them, to supply us with true loaders for The Christian Commonwealth."
I remember turning to our nan from Texas. "How many nen," I asked him,
"do you seriously think you could enroll from your State to make a business of
such gathering?" I meant those, of course, not handicapped by families.
He mused a moment. "Five hundred," he announced.
I knew two things which these fellows did not. First, it was within the
karma of the Legion Movement to work out a maneuver somewhere in the Southwest.
Second, tucked away in ny files were letters from certain influential Oklahom-
a
n
s
'
, informing me that if I would proceed to make The Legion a power in Okla-
homa politics, aid in private ways might in no wise be lacking . .
I knew that I had to go to Oklahoma. It was "on the cards" of this Move-
ment, though why was beyond no. My intimates will attest that I likewise in-
formed them that The Silver Legion was due for a persecution, a driving under
cover, a reappearance in more effective form. But the details were vague . .
My daughter Adelaide, now a full-grown young woman, had completed her
schooling and joined me in Asheville. Of a day in September we loft Asheville
with the eastern work well established behind me. Marion Henderson remained
behind as a "pivot" for Seibor. Adelaide became ny private secretary and with
Helen and others we motored westward through the Great Smokies and on toward
Oklanona. .
273
CHAPTER 20
HAVE frequently been queried, Just what was ny purpose in forming The Legion?
What did I tacitly expect to accomplish with it, practically? Did I expect
to recuit enough men, and have then trained in implicit obedience, to dare
to intimidate the federal Government? Had I hoped to launch a second Ku Klux
Klan but devoid of the anti-Catholic stipulation? How could I expect to be-
stir such a sentiment across the nation and yet do nothing to lead it to mili-
tary action . . which night have been sedition?
Examining from perspective ny own psychology in this period, based mainly
on certainties of prophetical nature, it was none of these and all of them.
I felt that I knew positively, for instance, that nothing of a vital
nature was going to occur throughout America until 1936. Furthermore, it wasn't
to be The Legion as it was recruited in 1933 that would finally serve the nation
in its interval of upset.
Persecution must come first.
The thing that I was doing was LOCATING AND PROVING LEADERSHIP for the
country's greater plight many months ahead.
Just as The League for the Liberation had connected me with my first as-
sociates of worth, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and supplied a great back-
ground for The Legion when it came, so now these Silver Cohorts were finding
and testing character for The Christian Commonwealth. Over and over again, in
a hundred places, studonts of this Movement will find this thought expressed in
the sixty-seven issues of Liberation Woekly throughout 1933 and 1934.
"Three tines you will fail," the Prophecy had uttered, "but the fourth
tine be successful! Yet the fourth tine cannot happen unless three steps go
before." The League, the College, The Legion, these were the stops that could
not be avoided.
And yet I knew also that The Christian Party, when it cane, would be made
up of the gold drained off from human alloy in these initial three divisions.
Looking ba,ck now I can easily discern that every move I made gave up its
contribution. No natter where I went, or what I did, I was making contacts,
widening ny lines, making the country conscious of Spiritual-Patriotism.
That the nation's vengeful marplots were going to conduct two inhuman
persecutions of ny labors, but that each would play its part in developing my
destiny, was so certain before me that it colored all ny thinking. Our party
discussed it freely on the long trip down to Shreveport.
In Shreveport I found Powell.
The Major was utterly disgusted with the behavior of Smith. Instoad he
had employed himself recruiting new men for the Oklahoma sojourn. In Shreveport
I addressed a large Post of Silvershirts, as splendid a body of Americans as
the nation could produce. The Encampment was popular. The drama of it had
caught then. Throe carloads of men subsequently drew out of Louisiana and
headed for Oklahoma City, with others soon to follow from Missouri and Texas.
An ex-Texas oil nan by the name of Loland Weeks was among this Shreveport
group. Eo produced credentials attesting that during the War ho had been in
the Military Intelligence, and joined with us now to recruit a Silvershirt
cavalry. Powell besought me to allow him to become Chief of Staff in the color-
ful gesture. Incidentally, before quitting Shreveport I made it possible for
Powell to cone with us by loaning him funds to meet his lapsed house-rent and
save his family from ejection. I seemed to have a weakness for this sort of
thing.
Assembled finally in a suite at the Huckins Hotel in Oklahoma City, I
gathered the hoads of this Encampnent around me and issued then their orders.
First of all, wo courted no publicity. Secondly, a tremendous amount of ground-
274
work must be done before any men were ordered to begin the concentration.
The indicated backing had first to be secured, buildings arranged for, a news-
paper of our own launched to correctly acquaint the West with the Silver Rangers'
program.
Powell demurred . .
"We can't put this thing over without publicity!" he cried.
"Quite true," I agreed. "But let's make sure it's right. We certainly
don't expect any kind of a break from these Jew-owned local papers. Let's first
get entrenched, then make our bid for public favor."
hen heard we had arrived in Oklahoma, howover. Heads of western Posts
began coming in to see me. From Texas and Nebraska, from Missouri, from Arkan-
sas, they made such a group that on my first Sunday in Oklahoma I had to address
then. The Jews of Oklahoma City heard of it. Silvershirts were in Oklahoma!
Up to the offices of tho papers they smoked and forthwith the headlines blared.
Seditionists were loose! Naziisn threatened! All the good people who loved law
and order were beseechod to gather 'round and protect their institutions.
"Where tho devil are the reporters getting this stuff?" I asked my
daughter.
"I saw a group of fellows who looked like reporters coning out of Pow-
ell's room," she answered.
I sont for Luther Powoll. "Have you been giving interviews contrary to
ny orders?"
It developed that he had, and our session was ugly.
Immediately I noticed a coolness growing between Powell and others on
ay staff. I thought at the time it concerned the publicity. Then more import-
ant business engaged ny attention. Wo had a paper of our own to get out, to
;
;
;
i
v
e the truth to Oklahoma people. My daughter who had developed into an
amazingly competent political writer, assisted as she could. But I wanted a nan
to take the heavior responsibility.
"What* s the natter with Craig?" suggested Jasper Long, one of our Kansas
City leaders.
I said, "Who's Craig?"
"James Craig. The tall, elderly, white-haired man who attended the
address Sunday. He used to bo desk-nan on the Kansas City Star. What's more,
he's broke."
"I know," I said. "Everybody's broke. And Craig's about to be ejected
for non-payment of his rent!"
"That's right," agreed Jasper, "How did you know?"
"Because I'n Santa Claus. I go around the nation fixing up men about
to be ejected. It's part of the ritual for becoming a Silvershirt."
"I'll undertake to pay Craig's bills, if you'll let him stay hero and
give him a job."
"All right," I said. "I'll give him a try-out."
when I later saw Craig, to really study him, I felt a sort of anguish.
He was tall, sickly, sepulchral. On the top of a head of unruly white hair
was a silly Jimny-Walkor toque. I suppressed the vaudeville line that asked
him, "How much would you charge to haunt a house?" But ho thought he could
handlo The Silver Ranger editorship. Adelaide, with her inimitable sense of
humor, camo into my room later that evening and said, "You'd better slip Craig
a couple of dollars for grub, dad, or the first thing you know he'll be dying
on your hands. It's choapor to feed him."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that I don't think he's onton for a week."
Wo jot Craig fixed up, and when headquarters was opened assig-ned him to
a desk. I was beginning to bo worried, Powell's fool interviews with report-
275
ers had done a lot of damage. One especially nasty iten had appeared —
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
TO INVESTIGATE SILVERSHIRTS
Communicating immediately with friends of mine in Washington, I was advised
that the Department of Justice had no more idea of "investigating" us than of
sleuthing Mussolini. But that is the way Jews work. For this sort of "pro-
tection" of themselves have they secured doninition of the American press.
The first number of our Silver Ranger appeared. It told Oklahoma the
truth about The Silvershirts.
The battle was on.
"God send me MEN!" I prayed in a heartburn night after night. "Send me
men of courage, character, and BRAINS! I can’t fight this fight with broken-
down misfits!"
There were men for the ranks but good leaders were missing.
f\NE NIGHT during the third week of these Oklahoma preparations, word was con-
W veyed to me to call the New York City operator. A Manhattan banker friend
came later on the wire.
"I want you to grab a plane and be here Thursday noon," he told me.
"It’s terribly important."
"What’s so important?"
"Barney Baruch wants to have a talk with you." My friend added cautious-
ly, "Ee wants you to come to luncheon."
"Luncheon? Barney 3aruch? Which of us is crazy?"
"I'm not crazy, Chief. Barney Baruch commissioned me to find you and
bring you up to luncheon. You’re raising too much hell. Ee wants to fix things
up. It’s not everyone, you know, who gets that invitation from Barney Baruch."
"Are you trying to compliment me? If so, you're all wet. I wouldn't
accept a luncheon date with Baruch if both of us ate from the same kosher stew-
bowl. What’s more, you should know it."
"Have a little sense, nan," my friend pleaded with me. "I think I can
get you a fine piece of change for your work if you’ll only be nice to him and
handle the Legion along a different line."
"The only contact I want with Barney Baruch," I responded, "is the ex-
cellent moment when I take off his hide and nail it to a door."
"But look aherei . . I’m supposed to fetch you. It’s for Barney Baruch.
Like an order from the President. No one turns down such a man as Baruch!"
"No? Then I’m.Man Number One. You're just wasting tolls."
"Whatsa matter, afraid of him?"
"Not half so afraid of him as he is of me, or he'd never have suggested
an idea so foolish. Give Barney my compliments and report what I've said."
I had to ring off to stop the other's protests. So Baruch considered me
important enough in my Legion work to invite me to luncheon, eh? Then the
Legion must be scouring.
AND the Legion was scouring. In Massachusetts and Oregon, in Texas and Utah,
•/* in Florida and Montana, the Silvershirts were gathering. Soon I had nen ii
heavy numbers in every State in the Union but one. That State was little Dela-
ware. California had more Silvershirts than either policemen or National Guards-
men,j Mass meetings of Jews had been held in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Salt Lake
City, and Los Angeles, all having one tenet: How could Pelley be stoppod?
In New York City some cunning but not clever Hebrew bedaubed the front
of his own synagogue with Silver Legion labels. Whereupon a Jewish publication
276
f
l
e
v
? into front-cover headlines with a $500 reward for the arrost and convic-
tion of The Silvershirt committing the act of "desecration" . .
"Huh," commented a lean old Oklahoman Silvershirt when I showed him
the journal, "guess if we want to descrecate their danged synagogue at the
proper time, we'll do it with stampin' besides little paper stickers!"
That was western sentiment.
The Silver Ranger started with a circulation of 10,000 copies, climbed
swiftly to 20,000, then mounted toward 30,000. The West was waking up.
Groups of Silvershirt speakers started touring Oklahoma. One contingent of
these arrived in the little town of Bristow where the American Legion Hall had
been hired for the occasion. The meeting in this Hall was set for eight o'clock.
At half after seven a frantic ox-soldier sought out our spellbinder where he
was dining in a restaurant.
"Are you gonna speak against Communism?" he demanded.
"I certainly an," our speaker assured him.
"That's what we heard. And I'm afraid we can't let you have tho Hall.
You see, we've got too many Communists in the Legion over here. If you talked
against Communism, you might hurt their feelings!"
Noble American Legion!
Our men made quick arrangements to take advantage of an offer from a
local Silvershirt who owned an icecream parlor in the town. Ricker tables were
noved out. A boy at the Legion hall turned arrivals across the street.
Immediately a clique of local Jews posted themselves in the front of
the refreshment place, along cigarstand and fountain, and took the name of every
local person attending. Next day each and every Gentile, come to hear about
the wholesome Christian activities of The Silvershirts was politely informed by
visitor or phone that if ho attended any more such meetings, the local Jews
would ruin him. Trouble was brewing. My man called me frantically in Oklahoma
City, "Move along," I instructed him. "They'll capitalize a riot to misrepre-
sent us elsewhere,"
Already there had been anti-Silvershirt riots on the streets of Los
Angeles. My one-man war was upsetting a nation . .
My group of speakers obeyed my instructions. Next night they arrived at
a small town just over the line in Arkansas. Practically all the Gentiles of
Bristow followed them. Speaking at a country schoolhouse that held forty
children by day, the place was soon jammed so that over 500 heard the address
through the windows. After the meeting, a clandestine spokesman sought out
our organizer. "We've got seven hundred men up here in the hills," he whis-
pered. "Their families are starving but each man's got a rifle. If Pelley'll
spy the word, we'll blow off this lid by attacking Fort Smith and hanging every
Jew within the city."
"Not a chance, brother," the zealot was informed. "This is an organiza-
tion to preserve law and order, not destroy it."
I called the group in.
p UT mysteriously enough, the promised Oklahoma support was annoyingly delayed.
-/
l Hebrews were blocking the procuring of ranch lands. Silver Rangers deposit-
ed in the Oklahoma. City postoffice for wholesale nailing were not reaching ad-
dressees. Out of one issue of the Ranger of 20,000 copies, nearly 12,000 were
never delivered. Such losses were ruinous. Wo held a council of war. It was
decided that I should make a trip East and interview some friends.
I left Craig and Adelaide in charge of the Ranger, and Powell and Weeks
in charge of recruiting. Driving my car alone, I slipped from the State and
drove through to Washington. I had personal bills pressing. My own plight was
growing desperate.
277
Up at the national Capital earlier in the summer I had established The
Liberation News Bureau as a personal enterprise to raise nysclf some revenue.
It was a weekly service of Confidential Bulletins to a select list of business-
men. Two trusted lieutenants had it in charge. Thus while Jewish papers were
defaming ne for ny subtle racketeering, I was truly drawing so little money from
The Legion that I had to run a private project on the side to support ny depen-
dents, Fron ny Washington office I now wrote some letters to a list of close
friends. I explained ny prodicanont and the condition of The Legion.
Answers cane back and relievod ny predicament. One Massachusetts per-
son wrote angrily: "You take this noney I'm enclosing and see that you use it
for your own private purposes. It’s a gift, not a loan. And you must spend it
on yourself."
This letter cane in after ny departure and return to Oklahoma.
I drove into Oklahoma City to find ny daughter indignant. "You've got
the wrong set-up here entirely, dad," she warned ne. "I've been learning a lot
that I think you should know about."
"Go on," I prompted her. This thankless job with inconpctent liouten-
ants was getting on ny nerves.
"Well, first of all, I found out about Powell. I learned why it's been
that the men are avoiding him ever since that Sunday over at the Kuckins. You
ask Major Weeks."
"Why Major Weeks?"
"Because we hadn't arrived in town two hours, and got quartered in the
hotel before Powell held a gathering in his room unbeknown to you."
"I suspected as much."
"Bluntly, ho told all of then: 'If we play our cards right, we can get
this whole Legion away fron Pelley and run it for ourselves.' Rather than make
trouble within the ranks, they've all of then kept quiet. Weeks almost hit
Powell in the nose for his disloyalty. You sec, Weeks knew about you paying
Powell's housorent."
I interviewed Weeks. He confirmed ny girl's report, although it took
much coaxing. Weeks was a gentleman. Then I sent for Luther. It was during the
noon hour.
"I'm afraid, Luther," said I, "that your usefulness is done here. I know
all about your proposition to the nen. It was thoroughly contemptible. But nen
are nighty scarce, so I'll give you another chance."
Powell muttered some miserable apology. What new chance would I give hin?
"I'm sending you back to Asheville to work under Soiber. And you're not
Chief of Staff, and what's more, you never have been. There's a party of our
nen returning to Asheville, starting within the hour. You go with then, or go
to Shreveport. Come now, which is it?"
He said he would go to Asheville.
I saw the party started and returned to ny office.
At two ©Pclock that afternoon the Paramount Sound Truck drove up before
our office. It spilled out scores of Jews. Brazenly they entered.
"Veil, vere's Pelley? Ve cone to take the pitchers."
"What pictures?" Long demanded,
"Shots for the News Weeklies. Doncha want to get in movies?"
"We do NOT!" they were told.
"But ve got to get the pitchers. Ve made it an appointment. The big
bald-headed guy who wears the big glasses. He said Pelley'd be here and nake
it a speech for the movies about The Silver Legion."
"Clear out, all of you, before you get thrown out!" Jasper ordered all of
then. A former cook in the Navy, standing six feet tall and weighing two hund-
red pounds, he reached for the Jew who was furthest ' on the premises.
Hebrews spilled out, squealing.
278
Thereupon I investigated,
Powell, I discovered, had fixed a deal with the Jowish movie non to
dross up an adjutant named Barnes, of ny height and build, paste a Van Dyke on
his face, and have hin road an asinine spooch into the canera to be generally
broadcast throughout the entire United Statos.
Ludicrous? Of course. But tragic if consummated. And all now a part of
Silvershirt tradition.
Battle, battle, battlo. So ny days and nights were spent. A country
nas being undernined. Our culture was being gutted. The Washington Gang was
looting the Treasury. Men in hordes were piteously willing to follow able lead-
ership. And nen who should have been joining me, taking conpotent responsibility,
were keeping to snug offices and endorsing NBA. I was trying to save the nation
on dines while the "leader ship*' volunteering went about pasting whiskers on
boys' faces . .
Craig of the Jinny-Walker toque approached me in his best undertaker’s
manner later that evening and slipped a letter to ne. "There are money orders
for five hundred dollars in it," ho whispered. "Some person up in Massachu-
setts -
- "
"Yes," I said hastily, "I know all about it," I put it in ny pocket.
Craig made a wry face . .
This was tho gentleman who, later in Los Angelos,arraigned me in his
scurrilous diatribes before tho whole nation, stealing a part of The Silver
Banger nailing list and using then to tell peoplo that I pocketed donations for
ny own private pocket.
0 God, send no MEN!
CHAPTER 21
STOPPED the idea of holding an Encnnpnent.
California was boiling with Silvershirt activity. Demands were reaching
ne by letter and wiro to cone to the Coast and locate there instead. The
Golden State had leaders who were hewing to a line. Yet I could not leave at
once. I summoned Alvin Bick.
Bick had cone to Asheville from the Posts up in Idaho. Ho was one of
our party when it went to Oklahona. A tall, sparse, earnest nan, with a start-
ling rescnblence to Ransey MacDonald, he was clanoring for field work that neant
roal responsibility.
"Take your car and start for California," I instructed hin carefully.
"Enter the Stato at San Diego and novo northward up to ’Frisco. Address all
the Posts as you have opportunity. Hear thoir squabbles. Tell then to be
patient. I’ll follow you out there as soon as I can nake it,"
Bick departed. I applied nyself to winding up our affairs in Oklahona.
The tine was unripe. Tho explosive nature of the southwest was such that to
brine nen in for training night precipitate calamity. And yet oxcollont work
had been done in Oklahoma. Contacts have been made there enduring to the pres-
ent, By tho day after Christmas, 1933, natters had so shaped thensolvos that
I was froo to leave. In cane a wiro a few hours before departure —
BICK HAS REPUDIATED YOU AS LEADER, HAS CALLED STATE-WIDE
CONVENTION OF ALL SILVERSHJRTS AT ATASCADERO TO FORM NEW
ORGANIZATION. GET HERE AT ONCE. MOST LEGIONAIRSS STILL
LOYAL.
Such are tho vicissitudes accruing to a nan who of his own efforts would build
279
a liberating movement to save the land from chaos. It was not that these men
were treacherous or vile. It was solely that they were little. They wanted to
express themselves. They thought that the business of raising a great army
of patriots that might presently save the country, was printing a lot of litera-
ture and pasting a lot of stamps. Well, they could do it also, and ascend to
ny position. True, they had no especial training to ascend to my position.
They did not see that raising the dust as I was doing in America came from some-
thing else than ballyhoo. The organization that I was putting together, with
such materials as came to hand, hailed them in my stead and they forgot they
wore but sparrows who had been carried up to prominence — to use a brash meta-
phor — but riding on the eagle’s back and "taking off"ffom his flight’s highest
point. Yes, they saw opportunity to fly high, and took it. And I was the some-
what harassed eagle, seeing that I have used the metaphor, that could only watch
then shatter in the gales. High flights are for strong wings. So I saw them
plunge to grief. Without meaning this metaphor in the bombastic way it sounds,
I never let any of then land back on ny neck . .
Of course not all helpers defected thus lamentably. Out of the scores,
and even hundreds of splendid men across this nation who have been mainly res-
ponsible for ny achievements to date, Anderson, the Reverend Gerald, Powell, and
3ick — and later Craig and Seiber — were the only ones deserting me when the
battle cane in earnest. These men, however, did a lot of damage because their
egress was so noisy. Each made a great pother about having "been at Headquar-
ters” . . each used access to nailing lists to satisfy their grudges. It never
occurs to the critical public that if a nan has "been at Headquarters" and is not
now at headquarters, perhaps the fault is his, end he has grievously muffed it.
"Being at Headquarters" doesn't mean a thing, excepting that for some reason or
other, they failed to measure up. Seiber’s case was different, as I shall
presently explain . .
No, these Little Men think it’s just nailing lists and postage stamps,
and if Pelley has done it, why can't they do it too? So they try and they
fail. And when they have failed, their way for getting back is to nuttor be-
hind the hand, " . . if you only knew, as I know, what goes on at Hee.dquarters"
and the public imagines everything it shouldn't. Pinned down to exactly what
they mean, these Little Men never reveal anything specific, excepting that they
got out. It is on the whole pathetic . .
And yet the theory seems to be that a man who is n REAL leader should,
with no bankroll to compensate men of ability, pick out his helpers with one
hundred percent perfection.
0 God, send me MEN!
f^iUR PARTY arrived in California on the first day of the New Year, in the midst
' of flood-like torrent. One of the first things which my Golden-Kead and
I did, when the rest had been quartered, was to drive in the murk up to Alta-
dena, to visit the little cloister bungalow that still meant so much.
My heart sank when I saw it.
The soft brown cedar shingles had been painted brazen white. It thrust
up like a hencoop whose whitewash was bedraggled. Trees and shrubs were blasted.
All lawn had disappeared. Could this be the sane romantic little place where
five years before we had stood and watched the sunset? . .
Oh well, such is life.
We returned to Los Angeles and plungod into the battle.
Bick had come to California, discovered its Legionaires frenzied for
action, decided me incompetent because I kept my head, <and set about saving the
nation of himself. Yot I should bo fair to Bick. The man was sincere. Not
knowing the reasons for my many changed decisions — to meet new conditions —
280
he thought no departing ny first-expressed principles. He did not know, as
nany do not know, that no leader can remain aH immovable image. Projectiles
will shatter the implacable statue. The true leader, as I have appraised it,
is the general on the battlefield. Ee alters his plans as the wage of conflict
dictates. He does not stop to explain to his regiments of soldiers why this
or that is best, Ee directs! . . and keeps his counsel.
Pick had been quite sure that I didn't know ny business. Did the Cali-
fornians want fight? He would see what could be done. Joining with an Atas-
cadero astrologist he held a "convention” of all the West Coast Silvershirts.
Sixteen men responded, four of then ny agents to report on what was done.
3ick's schism was a flop.
My heart goos out to 3ick. After a couple of months trying to promote
something he called The Associated Americans — which loyal Silvershirts nick-
named The Ass Americans — he was visited by tragedy. His eldest daughter, a
beautiful girl and accomplished violinist was reported as vanished overboard
from a Puget Sound ferry . ,
Bick withdrew into his grief.
-r1HE STORY of the California Silvershirts is yet in the writing. Perhaps in a
J sequel to this volume down later years, I can report how it finished. But
ny introduction to ny own cohorts in the Golden State convinced no norc than eve -
that my efforts wore not fruitless, that America meant business. It ’
was a queer
sensation, to go back into the State where I had lived so much with Grant, Eddie,
ny Golden-Eead, Matie Shaw, and movie-folk, and discover it in turmoil, acclaim-
ing me as leadef. A lot of water had "flowed under the bridge" since I made
my decision that night at Svonde Garde's . .
Could I be the sane person?
Two men, as far apart in type and temperament as the poles, were await-
ing ny advent when I reached the end of the trek in Los Angeles. Hinckley was
a burly Protestant Irishman, six-foot-two in his stocking feet, spoiling for
battle with all the Jews in Christendom. Cunnings, small, silent, keen as a
ferret — only needing the ruff about his neck to make him the perfect medieval
Norman — answered the door at the apartment he had awaiting me, and when I took
his hand, I felt I had known him always. Kemp I had already met in San Diego,
tall, romantic, swashbuckling, colorful. Those men wero ready to sacrifice their
lives — for me and for the Movencnt — if crisis demanded. How could such
things happen if karma were not in it? Already far and wide up and down the
whole of the State they had cohorts of Silvershirts awaiting my bidding. Meet-
ings of Silvershirts in Los Angeles sometimos totaled a thousand persons.
And these were wholesome patriots, lovers of their country, eager to
clean it of the aliens despoiling it.
What did I want done? I had only to speak and it would be executed.
"The first thing I want this whole crowd to do," I told them bluntly,
and employing the vernacular, "is to keep their shirts on! Veril3r their
Silvershirts! We've not come together to overthrow the government. We're
preparing to stand together as a bulwark if these Jewish Reds abolish consti-
tutionalism. That and naught else. When the Rods have wrecked the nation,
we'll turn around and rebuild it . , in The Christian Commonwealth!"
"Hell, what sort of leadership is that?" roared Hinckley. "Me, I want
action!"
"If the Chief talked anythin; else, he wouldn't be fit to lead us,"
said Cummings.
Mine was the job of combining fire and ice.
2 8 1
CHAPTEE 22
p EAR in mind, that what was happening in California was "by no means confined
' to that State alone. It was happening in Massachusetts and Florida, in
J J J Texas and Oregon, in Utah and Missouri. By the end of January, 1934, there
was scarcely one State In the American Union that did not have its representa-
tion of Silvershirts. Every type of man was responding to the tocsin of the Legion,
out of every walk of life^ My problem was not to find men but to find leaders of
men. Personally I saw the movement not as a tawdry gesture at Jew-baiting, no
matter how much the Jews themselves thought so. Neither did I see myself as any
American Hitler. What I did see was a nation that was rapidly losing its spirit-
ual moorings, that was dragging its anchor, that was beginning to drift before
the gales of Red Bolshevism. Insofar as Jews were responsible for this vicious
and tragic trend, I was against Jews. But no matter what my enemies were saying
about me, in my heart of hearts my concernment was to aid America as I could to
get through her Seven Lean Years of impoverishment successfully, hold her true to
the concepts and precepts of the Continental Fathers, and ultimately rebuild her
commercial and social structure along more stable and impregnable lines. I was
convinced that any country which periodicly ' encountered the strifes and upsets
of 1893, 1907, and now 1929, with financially losses running into the billions,
had something radically wrong with its internal machinery. Our whole economic
and financial ensemble had to go through some sort of renovating alteration.
Day unto day the machinations of the gang that had come into power in Washington
were getting sillier and sillier. No real gesture in intelligent statesmanship
had been made. I plainly saw, as Congressman McFadden and Mr. Sharpe had earlier
seen before me, that American officialdom had boon deliberately emasculated of
ability and character in preparation for just such a crisis. An international
clique was at work, not only gutting the vast reservoir of wealth that was the
United States Treasury and the American banking system, but the morale and stam-
ina of the citizenry as well. This clique had made long preparations for the
success of their scheme. Now there was no one to stand up and expose it, no one
of national prestige to take a firm grasp on the helm of State and halt it. The
country had leaders but no Leader. People by the millions were becoming more and
more hysterical and economic conditions grew worse. So many suicides were becom-
ing of daily occurrence that newspapers by common consent refused to publish both
figures or incidents. The general bedlam was becoming devastating while a vain
.and irresponsible man in the Chiof Executives chair was docilely carrying out the
orders handed him by one tight little group of five Hebrews ensconced in a house
in Georgetown. A Congress made up of small-bored men, purposely chosen for their
incompetency, kept up the fantasm of representative government. The real work of
government, at least such government as a stricken nation was getting, was being
done by a small handful of Jewish financiers, who kept out of sight as artfully
as possible, letting each development of their cunning plans be made to appear as
a natural happening. For a man who had the resources to see through every start-
ling move they made, tending straight toward dictatorial Bolshevism, who had the
intelligence to likewise discern what the American people truly needed in the way
of economic and spiritual leadership, and yet who found himself with an evergrow-
ing horde of increasingly disgruntled common citizens at his back, my position
was not an enviable one, I knew what was being done to smash Constitutional
government, I knew what should be innovated to stay and cure the bedlam, and I
had men who wanted to go into action against their despoilers armed figuratively
with broomsticks and air-rifles. My task was not only to educate the masses but
to organize and astutely direct these men so that when the proper time came, any
action which might be made would be oool-brained and constructive action that
would truly arrive somewhere and achieve some lasting good. What I needed was
men who were the elongation of myself, with my own early training, my grasp on the
282
/
spiritual factors in the situation, my own desire to see a truly valuable piece
of statesna.nshnp performed, and something of the ability which I felt growing
within myself to perform it. I was heartsick, night after night, at the type of
human being with which I had to work. I had, potentially, the makings of a
great national army of liberators in the rank and file. But alas, my captains,
colonels, majors, and generals, men who could have stepped forth and mot the is-
sue courageously and efficiently, giving thousands ofi splendid fellows the lieu-
tenant-leadership they commanded, were still chained to their desks, sold on the
idea that Roosevelt and his Georgetown Gang should be "given a chance", hoping
against hope that what I was trying to make them see was more or less the product
of a novelists imagination. It was an appalling prospect. What I needed for
these boys was first a Robert Morris or an Alexander Hamilton. Then I needed a
Baron von Steuben.
Soon I perceived other phases of my dilemma. Half the men and women who
had joined up with Tho Legion looked upon the movement as purely a spiritual ges-
ture. They saw it metaphysically. Their idea was to hold Post meetings, turn
down the lights, sit in meditation, commune with Holy Spirit, and trust to what
they termed "constructive thinking" to solve the problems hourly looming higher
on tho national horizon. The other half had joined tho Legion because it promised
action. They assumed that overnight I was going to throw a mob of reckless rousta--
bouts together and start some insane challenge to the despoilers like a March on
Washington. This element saw the Jewish question as something to be solved by
squadding up, attacking Jewish tailorshops by night, smashing the glass, and leav-
ing threatening missives in Hebrew letter-boxes. If I attempted to control and
discipline the last, in fact give them undue attention, the first looked askance
at me and murmured that I was departing from the mentorship of The Christ. If I
gave countenance to the metaphysical, meditating element, the actionist boys were
disgusted and rebellious that the movement was really an old ladies' sewing cibcle.
Shuttling back and forth between these two elements were scores of loyal and well-
meaning individuals who took it upon themselves to do the strangest things under
the inhibited impression that they were helping me bear my load. Several anti-
Semitic riots had occurred in the downtown streets of Los Angeles when Jews had
attacked newsdealers openLy selling our Silvershirt periodicals and our men had
fought them off. Straight to city and police authorities had sped all kinds of
volunteer fixers purporting to have been sent by me personally, who swiftly dis-
gusted the said authorities by their maneuvers, causing them to exclaim, "If this
is the calibre of 'man Pelley elects to represent him, tho man must be an ass
and his movement a joke." Of course I knew nothing about such carryings-on and
was extremely careful to choose ny best men to represent me. But that did not
stop these volunteer fixers from constantly bringing both myself and more sensible
followers into disrepute. Men whom I had never seen, much less empowered,
climbed the platform at disorderly Silver Legion meetings, announced themselves
as coming from me, and made the1most asinine or dangerous addresses, further
confusing and disgusting the public. Meantime Jewish and Communistic spies were
overywhercK_teasing amateurish volunteer leaders into the most compromising sit- _
uations. The whole Silvershirt horde required military discipline from top~~to
bottom. But military discipline is military discipline. It rests on severe L—
penalties for infractions of set rules. It depends on uniforms to designate rank
and therefore authentic responsibilities. I had a great volunteer mob, aroused,
reasonably loyal, eager to go into action and straighten out the nation overnight,
I had to win men, hold them, control them, by nothing but sheer power of personality
Throwing them in the brig for violations of orders was a satisfaction denied me.
So long as theywere acting voluntarily, I did not even have the power of the purse-
strings over them. My days and nights were a long and disordered bedlam of meet-
ing situations where reports of activities would invariably be followed by angry
283
exclamation on ny part, "Who told that irresponsible fool to do any such thing?"
The reply would be, "No one told hin, he just went ahead a.nd did it!" Whereupon
I had to go ahead and fix up tho ness resulting as best I could.
I had to keoj!> a cool head through all this din, never lose ny temper, show
no partiality, raise the nonoy for all executive expenses, cajole the hot-heads
against tho nost fantastic projects, listen sympathetically to tho woes or blunders
of little people who saay the novenont only as a squabble in their own backyards,
and all the while keep a weather-eye out for what was happening not only in Cali-
fornia but in Masachusetts, Florida, Ohio, Missouri, Utah, and Texas, not to nen-
tion a score of additional States, where leaders were becoming resentful that I
was giving the Golden State attention which they deserved as well.
For the first time in ny life, however, I found myself in a situation that
demanded, and received, every last ounce of talent and ability thart went to make
up my character. In that much I was satisfied. I had to hold the actionists down
until the condition of the nation warranted reprisals against the Washington Gang,
v/hile at the same tine I trained the metaphysical element to see that thinking
nice thoughts was all right in its place but that nice thoughts had to be translated
into constructive action in the right tine and place. Meantime I was keeping two
weekly publications going, routing Legion speakers, holding conferences with lead-
ers, striving to keep an even tempo in the work from the Pacific to the Atlantic.
Hinckley, ny galvanic Irishman, said to me one night, "I think I've got
exactly tho nan you need to grab hold of these wild men and lick them into an in-
telligent organization . . at least here on the Coast, He’s Colonel McCord of
the local Reserve Officers Training Corps, I'll have him here at the house to-
morrow night and if you can sell him on your program, you* 11 have a prize."
So I net the Colonel on the ensuing night. I found nysolf closeted with a
grizzled old army nan, whom private advices told me had long been associated with
tho anti-Communist Better American Federation of Los Angeles. I knew something
about the excellent work of this organization. I had learned it from Mr. Sharpe.
The Colonel had a long and honorable war record behind hin. He knew army
discipline and how to achieve it. He would undertake tho job of organizing the
Pacific Coast Silvershirts and make then a force to be reckoned with if I would
give him the authority and find money for his expensos. Was this my Baron von
Stueben? Eagerly I hoped so.
Suddenly, however, before I could go into minute details .about all the
Legion's west-coast affairs with the Colonel, cane an S 0 S from Asheville and
New York, particularly New York. I had to make a swift trip back to those places
as fast as human transportation could take me. Anti-Silvershirt riots had broken
out in Manhattan and New Jersey. Halls had been stench-bombed. Men had been
hurt. If I wished to hold my organization intact in the east, I must pay the At-
lantic coast a
. visit.
In Pasadena was a young Silvershirt flyer who owned a plane. I hauled hin
out of bed at midnight. "How quick can you fly me to North Carolina and Washington*
D. C.?" I demanded.
"Get you there in two days," he answered.
"Warn upl" I ordered. "I want to make the trip quickly enough so that the
west coast fellows don't know I've bo:m absent."
At seven next morning, before the mist-banks had burned away before the
California sunshine, Don and I took off in a two-seat open-cockpit Stcernan plane.
Whereupon ensued one of tho nost memorable experiences of ny life, an ex-
perience which can never como again from the very nature of the circumstances.
I flew across ny United States in a trifle loss than 40 hours flying tine . .
Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Missouri, finally Tennessee and tho Great Smokie
Mountains west of Asheville, passed below ne one mile down. I had plenty of tine
to think in those hours. Just what did I propose to DO with these Silvershirts?
284
The Jews got a nonachistic pleasure out of the foregone conclusion that I
was recruiting an army of Christian barbarians to murder then all in their beds.
A cross-section of the citizenry given to accepting and believing whatever they
read in the papers, was stupidly convinced that I was raising a seditious horde
to overturn the federal govornnont and install nysolf as dictator. Most of the
Roman Catholics of the country, flinflannod and banboozlod of old by the conniving
Jews, got the war-scaro that I was reviving the Ku Klux Klan. In Boston and other
New England cities the Hennst newspapers, managed by Jewish editors, had said so
to Massachusetts Catholics in eight-colunn front-page headlines. All the politi-
cal lunatics in the nation, downright jealous of the personal following I was get-
ting, took tine off to infom a bilked and stricken public that at the most I was
a dangerous racketeer.
In ny own heart of hearts I knew that Roosevelt*s NRA was not Roosevelt's
at all but an econonic step artfully planned by Frankfurter and his crowd to close
the gap between the Hoover brand of Republican!sn and the Tugwell brand of out-
right sovietism which was slatod for the nation somewhere around 1936. The Jews
who had plotted the Red bankruptcy of the nation wore using the NRA codes to force
all unsuspecting Gentile businessmen to turn in the nost vital statistics on their
operations to the government, where one Dr. Alexander Sachs was co.-piling and com-
puting then. Crawling masses of Jews, calling themselves "advisors" or "economists
were assailing these thousands of reports, learning the nost vital trade secrets of
their former Christian competitors, and bragging among themselves in consequence
that they would have every Christian business firm and every Gentile businessman
in the United States out of business within two yoars.
I knew as well that the heavy bond issues which a
. nitwit Congress was read-
ily approving at any crack of the Georgetown Whip were not for the purpose of pro-
viding relief for America's stricken millions. No honest attempt was being made
to furnish the average citizen with a restored buying power. The "gag" had quite
another character. First the bonds enabled the despoilers to beggar and close the
banks of the country by making the bankers exchange billions of their liquid cap-
ital for pretty sheets of lithographed federal paper, which would ultimately mean
nothing to them as assets inasmuch as there would be no market in which to sell
them. Second, this terrific load of bonded debt would eventually lift taxes to
such an appalling lovel to pay rates of interest that owners of private property
would have to surrender and relinquish, lacking a sufficient revenue to keep then
up. This would gradually create a homeless and disillusioned people with nothing
of a sentimental value to fight for. A great cross-section of Gontile "bankers"
would get the blame for mass foreclosures, the death-knoll of "capitalism" would
be sounded, and eventually a rancorous United States would be in a mental condi-
tion where "the beauties of Communism" would be applauded as a gesture of sheer
reprisal. It was an astutely worked-out scheme and daily and hourly I beheld it
succeeding. -
- --
-
My purpose in forming The Silvershirts, in ny own heart at least, was to
prepare a great national mass of men to meet the crisis intelligently and con-
structively when it cane. Every Silvershirt nust know the full extent of the
conspiracy, see it in its most detailed workings, get his thinking up onto a level
where the size of the plot could bo accredited, and when Red Connunisn in all its
frightfulness was finally projected upon the country be in a position to join with
tens of thousands of similarly enlightened Christians and preserve the fora of
Constitutional government set up by the forefathers. If this last meant using
force to hurl a groat regime of absolute scoundrels out of the country, very well
then, it meant force. But I proposed that it should bo intelligent force, cor-
rectly directed, reasonably disciplined, that knew as a police force knows what it
was seeking to achiove and how best to go about it. My supreme handicap lay in the
circumstance that I was thinking approximately three years in advance of tho rest
285
of the country^.! People in general were not yet ready to accredit that any over-
seas gang had either the nerve or the brains to steal and take over the entire
nation for their godless Judaistic purposes, I nust bo wild-catting to conceive
of such a thing. My second handicap was, that I had every newspaper, every radio,
every talking-picture screen, in the nation turnod against no to defnr.e no as a
racketeer. Of course I nust be a racketeer, talcing nillions of graft noney away
fron dupes, else why should I concern nysolf with what any gang at all were doing
to the nation. Outside of revenue, what coiild there possibly be in it for ne?
My third handicap was, that back in 1934 I could scarcely get a nan of standing to
aid no financially. The affluent nan, not yet wise to the true purposo of NRA,
preferred to give Roosevelt’s "policies” a chance. Or he was so ensnared already
that he could not support no without sufforing financial reprisals fron Jewish
affiliations. I was financing ny hectic activities fron little contributions,
$1, 55, and $10 bills donated by an arousing connon people. The contention nade
by ny Jewish adversaries later, that I was secretly being financed by Adolf Hitler
was an atrocious fabrication. It foolod the public for a tine and did sone nis-
chief. But like all other Jewish duplicitios, it eventually backfired on those
who projected it. My fourth handicap was a ncdiocre success in finding nen to
servo the novenent who conbined ability with loyalty and loyalty with intelli-
gence. Take Craig as exanple . .
I had left Craig in Oklnhona City for a tine to closo up the affairs of
The Silver‘Ranger. Of course he needed noney. I told hin to sit tight until I
reached California, when I would raise the noney and send it back to hin. Subse-
quently on arriving in Los Angeles sone Liberation students had liberally furn-
ished ne with funds for current working purposes. Innediately I wired Craig to
inform no how nuch he required to square the ronaining bills and cone on to the
Coast. I got his answer and ronitted hin the cash. The days had gone past and
he had not appeared. So finally I had dropped out of the clouds in an airplane
in Oklnhona City, and sunnonod hin down to a friend's office where I could have a
conference with hin and ascertain what had delayed hin. I found out swiftly.
The nan had sinply taken the funds which I had wired hin and used three-
quarters of then to pay his own expenses. Eo alibied hinself on this by nunbling
sone half-disgruntled excuse that I had nevor paid hin half enough for his ser-
vices anyhow and he felt he had neroly taken what he had coning to hin. Row if
any of the ronaining Oklnhona City bills wore paid, and I would have to raise the
suns all over again. In plain police language, Craig had misappropriated trust
funds of a sort to his own private uses, and the Silvershirts in Oklnhona City were
in bad repute on consequence. I could, of course, have had Craig jailed. But why
jail a poor old sick nan without the vision to see the labor in nuch larger terns
than his own grocery bills and rent? Bosidos, I had been responsible for leaving
hin behind. Also I could not be bothered, loaded down with executive responsibil-
ity as I was, with a silly prosecution of an individual in Oklnhona involving at
the nost but a few hundred dollars. I heard his story, held ny poace, told hin to
wait till I got east and I would find other ways of settling the local obligations.
Secretly I hoped that he would return to Kansas City as he had boen nore or less
of a pathetic liability fron the day that Jasper Long brought hin into the picture.
So I was increasingly appalled, I say, at the dearth of nen either capable
or willing to take responsibility in this increasing national dilemma. I had many
good nen about the nation, yes. If I had not had then, there would havo been no
Silver Legion setting the Judahn Lion by the ears or twisting the poor old noth-
eaten Leo's tail. But they in turn v
-
’
here sounding the sane poignant wail. Was
it possible that the gutting of American manhood, and Christian morale, had gone
so far that this courageous ,
gesture would go askew purely for lack of material to
guide it? I held to ny faith that by doing the best of v/hich I was capable, the
nen would finally cone forward . .
286
CHAPTER 23
~J VERY iten of the prophetic material which ny Golden Head and I had received
i that evening in Now York back in 1929, every iten which Mrs. Leslie had pre-
I , dieted on that epochal evening which followed, had cone true to the nonent.
Banged, tossed, dropped, raised, side-swiped, and boosted ever onward by our
sturdy notor, our plane winged eastward and I looked down fron the sky on the
Anerica that I wanted to serve so efficiently that the longing was now a pain
in ny life. And as it winged, I considered all this enlightenncnt which had
been ny portion, fron sources spiritual or secular, in the light of experiences
yet to bo. If all the details of the prophetic naterial due to cone to pass up
to the present HAD cone to pass, then how could I doubt that prophecies whose de-
nouenent was still in the future would not cone true likewise? Sonehow out of this
fearful bedlan of volunteer workers for hunan liberties and Christian principles
was coning an order, a novenent, an achievenont. Mrs. Leslie had said, howevor,
that I nust undergo seven years of struggle before the tide turned -in ny favor.
I had great and savage persecutions yet to endure. Throe attacks would be nade
upon ny life. Still, at the end lay victory. It was sonehow Written . . in cosnic
event. Well, naybe! I had becono a different nan, however, than the one who lay
in the Wilnington tonenent and grieved for little Harriet, who saw that young
Russian nother weeping in the nidnight of the Irkurtsk station, who stood in
Beverly Hills without five cents in ny pocket, who had heard the anbulance go
clanging past the Marengo Avenue intersection. Always before no now was that
nystical theophany on the Mojave Desert Pullnan car. No natter whether it was
hallucination, delusion of grandeur, bonafido brevet fron Between the Worlds,
subconscious desire to live ny life to the utnost, the Progran set for nyself was
maturing. I was sud'enly part of the very essence and fibre of ny country's
current history. I had to play ny role, and I rrould play ny role, lead ne where
it would. The daily developments of ny life were compelling ne, even had I not
wished to do so, to believe in ny destiny. If I could not always see ny way, I
had the great welling gratification inside ne that I would be "led" . . persecu-
tion, physical jeopardy, these never bothered ne. I had only to hew to the line
and all would be well.
So Don set his sturdy white plane down on the Hendersonville flying field
south of Asheville. Bob Sunnervillo cane after ne in his car. I walked into our
national headquarters, and twirled the chair before ny desk in ny office, as
though I had only been out of the place for lunch, Harry Sibber piled papers be-
fore ne. I despatched then rapid-fire fashion, caught a night’s sleep, and pre-
pared with Don to take off next norning for Washington. It was 500 miles to
Washington, yet flying in crow-line, we should be there by dark.
Up through norning cloud-bank our faithful plane poked its valiant nose
again and Mount Mitchell's peak passed below us on the right. Ahead was Roanoke,
Virginia, our first and only halt to refuel and eat. But we had been delayed in
getting away fron Hendersonville and it was three in the afternoon — a winter’s
day in February — before we taxied up to the Roanoke hangar, unclasped our
safety belts and went inside to thaw out.
On more than one occasion during this trip ny pilot had shown himself an
expert. But taking to the air for the final leg of our hop, with the February
sun dropping low on the west, I began to have qualns at the vista before us.
We wero heading into twilight, the country beneath us was savagely wooded hill-
land, the cold was growing bitter. What if our motor conked in the zero tempera-
ture with no landing beneath us but tree-covered slope? But our notor purred
faultlessly, even as it had purred through 40 hours fron the Coast* It was not
the notor that bothered, not then. Darkness neant terrain with which Don was un-
familiar, he could not pick out landmarks from the nap across his knees. We
287
veered eastward and sought to pick up the beacon lights that stretched fron Miami
to Manhattan. Finally miles eastward wo behold ore flashing.
It got darker. It got colder. The stars cane out in a steel-black sky.
For a hundred miles in every direction spread corrugated woodlands, with here and
there a pocket-handkerchief patch of whiteness that indicated a negro1s one-time
cornfield. Still our motor drummed sturdily. It was nearly eight o1clock when
faintly in the east I saw the nimbus over a city. Was it Washington? Unless we
had lost our course, it SHOULD be Washington? Don disregarded the beacons and
flew directly for it. At the end of another half-hour we cane over the metropolis
and I looked overside for familiar landmarks, the Dome of the Capitol, the Wash-
ington Monument. The city seemed as big as Washington but not a single landmark
could I see that I recognized. Finally I made out a bridge under construction
over the ribbon of frozen river far below. "Richmond1
," I bellowed to Don. He
read my lips and nodded. This meant another hundred miles yet to go before we
could drop on a sizable landing-field.
The cold, a mile in the air and traveling at nearly a hundred miles an hour,
became so agonizing that I almost sobbed at the torture of it. To thrust my hel-
neted face around the corner of the windshield meant to have it frozen in a terrible
blast of pain. Northward toward Fredericksburg we drummed our night-sky track.
Far far below us I could see the winking fireflies of auto headlights on the
Richmond-Washington Pike. Another thirty minutes and the ordeal would be ended.
Fredericksburg slipped away beneath our tail. Faint and far away at last I made
out the distant nimbus of the Capital.
Then it happened.
The motor lost a beat, coughed, staggered . . and sputtered badly. For a
quarter-moment we volplaned. Was Don merely gliding while changing from one gas-
tank to the other? I glanced below mo. Nothing but woodlands, woodlands, wood-
lands as far as- the eye could see.
But the motor resumed.
It drummed steadily once more and we regained our lost altitude. It HAD
been a shift from one gas-tank to the other, then. I thanked my lucky stars that
no forced landing was going to be necessary over that forest, with scarcely a
meadow in sight. I turned my eyes ahead to that nimbus over Washington . .
THEN THE MOTOR CONKED DEAD!
There was no mistaking it this tine.
The icy night-wind was rushing through the struts. The guy wires were
singing. The propellor was like a rakish arm thrust up by a scarecrow beforo me.
And we were going DOWN!
I knew fron the frantic manner in which Don was keeping in motion fron one
side of his cockpit to the other that he was seeking the biggest patch of cleared
ground beneath him on which to drop his machine as he could. The quiet, after
the motor’s all-day roar, shrieked at my eardrums. In a stupendous circle wo
glided earthward. We crossed tho Fredericksburg Pike and the fireflies of heaxL-
lamps died in our rear, (/here now?
Three thousand miles of flying across the whole of the United States, and
now THIS above the wooded hills of Virginia! Strange to narrate, it was not ex-
actly a sense of Death that crept over me in those few fateful moments. I recall
saying over and over to myself, "Well, the thing that I’ve been trying to put out
of mind ever since leaving Helen at Pasadena, IS NOV/ HAPPENING!" But it was for
the safety of Don and his plane that I was biliously worrying.
And nearer and nearer came the earth, only a sprinkling of lightly-fallen
snow showing the cleared spaces that opened through the woods.
Finally we were down whore the tree-tops were greeting us.
An opened spaco appeared ahead. Gaunt, leafless limbs and branches loomed
before us. I saw that Don had somehow contrived to guide the plane down into the
288
avenue of a woods road. Ahead was a 200-foot clearing, a hillside cornfield with
grade sloping southward. Get our "tail" down, we could not, Don discerned the
inevitable, realized he must not crash the woods head-on and drive the motor hack
through my body, pulled up the plane’s nose at the strategic moment, and pancaked
the undercarriage squarely on the brush.
I recall a taut fence-wire that snapped with a whine, a rock, a leap, a
rush and a BUMPl That bump, and the impact of my forehead against the cowling,
cane together.
Then all was silent.
We had made our landing.
"Aro you all right, Chief?" was Don’s quick demand.
"Yes, I'm all right. How about you?"
My flyer failed to answer. But he was disentangling himself from his
belts, so I knew he had not been hurt, I got myself free of the forward cockpit,
walked out on the left-hand wing and dropped to solid ground.
Don got both legs over the edge and took the five-foot leap from the tail’s
rakish incline. But he was further in the rear than myself, and the cleared space
beneath him was NOT solid ground. It was the frozen expanse of the ten-foot creek
that encircled the pasture on the south. And the ice gave way.
Don went into water to his knees’
"A danged good airplane gone to hell!" the lad was well-nigh sobbing as I
pulled him to dry ground.
"It’s not smashed so badly that it can’t be fixed. What I’m chiefly con-
cerned about is where we've landed. You're soaked to the skin and have got to
have a fire."
We examined the plane as we could in the dark. Insofar as I could see, no
real damage had been done beyond a partially-bent undercarriage and a twisted prop-
ellor blade. Woods were all about us. A naze of winter-sear brush that covered
the creek had acted as a cushion, breaking the impact of our halt. How to reach
the highroad before Don’s feet froze was the problem of the moment.
So we wandered.
We tramped two hours in those winter woods.
It was eleven o'clock at night when we finally energed on the Fredericks-
burg Pike. Down the Pike was a filling station run by some colored folks. We
gained to its light and we entered its warmth. For the first tine I saw Don as
our mishap had wounded him. The bump which my head had taken mostly on goggles
and helmet, had thumped his head against his dash-board and cut his forehead
cruelly. He had lost much blood down over eyes and face . .
A solicitous colored woman of both years and girth gave a crooning cry at
sight of him and helped him to a chair. I had heard of colored "nanny's" in rag-
time song and fable. I never had truly net one until that night in midwinter
Virginia. She brought hot water and towels. She helped me get Don's boots off
and chunks of ice spattered all over the floor. Then she made us coffee and she
fried us nan and chicken. She even made hot biscuits.
Her husband, an equally characterful negro, was concerned in rounding up a
crew to go back in the woods dospite the hour and help us to get our baggage from
the plane.
I had made a forced landing from a mile's height, on the coldest night of
the winter of 1934, and come down in ragged woodlands without suffering a scratch.
"You know, Chief," Don drawled later, weeks later when we were riding one
late evening together in a motorcar, "there ivas somethin' funny about that land-
in' . . I've never mentioned it but perhaps I oughta. You know . . I wasn't work-
in' that stick so much as we were glidin' down. I found I couldn't work it. I
know it sounds screwy, but SOMEBODY ELSE HAD HOLD OF IT! . . I'll swear there was
somebody I couldn't see, right there with ne in that cock-pit! They made the
landin', . . believe it or not!"
289
CHAPTER 24
COULD not be overly upset "by airplane crack-ups. I had to get on to Washing-
ton and Now York. I left Don with a crew that would take the plane apart
J next morning, bring it out to open field, straighten the undercarriage and
fit a new propeller blade. I caught the Greyhound ’bus for the Capital and an-
other night found me registered at a hotel in Newark. I knew that an immediate
return to the Coast was out of the question. The staff out there must carry on
as best it could until I got back. And yet judge my feelings and reactions when
a report of what had happened to my daughter Adelaide in Los Angeles brought back
this announcement —
YOUR IMMEDIATE RETURN IMPERATIVE. McCORD AND OTHERS IN LOS ANGELES
POST HAVE INCORPORATED COMPETITIVE SILVER LEGION WITH YOUNGSTER NAMED
CASE AS NEW CHIEF. HAVE BEGUN PUBLICATION OF THEIR OWN EDITIONS OF
SILVER RANGER NEWSPAPER. CROWD HERE LOYAL BUT PUBLIC CONFUSED. >
I went up to my room and sat down in the quiet.
During the next half-hour I went through one of those periods which no
one knows about but the man who has sincerely triad to give to his fellows to the
best of his ability and integrity and discovered himself betrayed for thirty pieces
of silver by his Judas.
Having tried every other expedient to stop me or wreck me, now the subver-
sive crowd in California were going to set up a rival Silver Legion and split the
ranks by a rancorous dispute before the public as to which contingent was the
bonafide Silvershirt body to follow. But McCord] . . a grizzled old army nan
with a record behind him, . . could it be possible he would engage in such deceits?
I knew my daughter too well to doubt that she would wire me facts that were in-
correct. Intuitively I felt that I knew what had happened. The wild-cat element
in the Legion, that had more than once criticized me for not letting them get out
and mob the Los Angeles Jews, was determined to translate the Legion’s influence
into what they termed "action" . . Action, to this element, was just common Nazi
rioting and I would have none of it. So rebellion had broken out and been organ-
ized by the subvorsionists. Somehow or other Colonel McCord had been inveigled
into heading it, probably armed with the credentials I had given him before de-
parting. A pretty kettle of fish, indeed] I was marooned in snowbound New
Jersey with a grounded airplane down in Virginia. Should I go back by train and
leave Don to get home alone when repairs had been completed? I finally made the
sort of decision that I have been called upon to make in many similar situations
since,
"I’m doing the best I can with what I’ve got to work with," I told myself
philosophically. "If the whole apathetic and menaced nation wants to leave it to
one man to carry on its war against the looters and despoilers, it’s not for me to
groan about. So long as I know in my own heart that I’m doing the best that I can
in the face of all conditions, I’ll have to leave the outcome to Higher Powers
than nine."
There must, of course, be sense to it somewhere.
I wirod Adelaide to keep her head, watch developments, see that I was fully
informed, and look for me back as soon as my New York business was completed. With
Newark ns base, I went over to Manhattan.
The Jews of New York were up in arms against The Silvershirts. Jewish news-
paper reporters had penetrated into Post meetings, to come away and write the vile 4
fabrications of what they had seen and heard. We were plotting a great pogrom of
Manhattan's Israelites, screeched one paper. We were armed and primed to advance
on Washington, assassinate the President, grab the government, and install myself
290
as dictator, railed another. The Silver Legion was a gigantic sucker-scheme,
declaimed a third, and when I had cleaned up financially I was all sot to desert
ny dupes and flee abroad with sizable funds I was hoarding secretly. Such were
the delectable dishos to which a hoodwinked public were introduced,
"This nan is Public Enemy Nunbor Onel" one Jewish daily emblazoned it
bluntly. "If the government itself does not halt him, he will overthrow Consti-
tutionalism and free representation will be a thing of the past’"
Yes, the Jews had the jitters. But they also had the newspapers. They
also had the money, millions of it, all looted first from stricken Americans. I
was the one nan in the whole American scene offering the bilked and bedeviled
public Leadership. The great Jewish leaders knew among themselves that I was NOT
racketeering, that I knew ny job all the way through, that I was "onto" their
schonings from first to last, that I stood an excellent chance of recruiting the
entire nation to ariso and oust then. The thing that disconfittod then worst,
however, was the fact that I had rolled up ray prostige and gained the national
car without money to underwrite me. They depended on nonoy themselves, these
Gargantuan plotters, to put their atrocious schemes over. They likewiso depended
on their control over money to hobble or halt any real leader who night arise
and challenge then . Yet here was I, selling the entire American nation on the
actuality of their plot, and contriving to do it on pennies and nickels. They
had no way to get AT nel Gnashing thoir teeth in the blackest and vilest of
Hebrew hatred, the only weapon left then was an open libel upon ny character and
program. They knew I had neither tine nor resources to instigate libel suits
against then. If I let nyself be drawn into such, I would be prosecuting nothing
elso. Besides, what sort of judgments would I get in Now York where magistrates
and juries ’
"ould be predominantly Hebrew?
No, I had to depend on a different style of defence.
It was accordod to me in such incidents as the situation I encountered on
ny second night in Manhattan . .
I had cone to New York to meet with two or three men of affluence in the
Union Club on upper Park Avenue, to discuss with then some of the more intimate
phases of the 1JHA conspiracy against Gentile business, and win their financial
backing as I could. Arriving at the Union Club to confer with then precisely
on the dot of five o’clock one February afternoon, I was sent by the flunkey to
a certain room above stairs. I found the room but at once was puzzled. Had I been
misdirected? The room was one of the largest in the club. It was crowded with
men and thick with cigarsmoke.
Pausing in the corridor, uncertain what to do, I suddenly saw ny host ad-
vance from the lift. His face was tragic white.
"My gawd, Polley! . . I invitod you here to talk with three non and look
what's happened] . . the club got wind that you wore going to be here and they
want to hear you speak1
. . . have you got anything you’d want to say to so many?"
HAD I?
"Don’t lot it worry you," I laughed.
"Can you . . n-nnke then a speech?"
"I rather think I can."
"Without . , p-preparation?"
"My dear fellow, I’ve been preparing nyself for five yoars to meet such
situations."
Into the great room and around to the head of a trenendous-sized table I
was conducted. Two hundred nen, the cream of the Republican and financial leaders
of New York, found chairs around that Board. Two or three foreign ambassadors
were present. My host introduced me . ,
For two solid hours I talked to those men as I had addressed no crowd in
my life. I took then straight back into the earliest and most clandestine origins
291
of the racial attack fron which they were suffering. I traced the ranifications
of the great international "banking houses through recent subversive activities
which they night check for themselves. I named names, and dates, and places,
I gave them the straight-story of The Silver Legion, what was ahead for them,
what The Legion presumed to do.
And regardless of the fact that most of thoso non had already put in a
fatiguing business day at their desks in the lower city, that gathering sat like
schoolboys and drank in every word. Only three men arose and left in the two
hours of my talk. They sent apologies later that their departures had been occa-
sioned by imperative engagements.
Here and there as I talked I beheld doubting Thomases with sneers growing
on their faces. When I made the statement that Jacob Schiff's dominition of
Theodore Roosevelt at the Portsmouth peace conference, and subsequent recognition
of Japan as victor in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904 had since cost the United
States 35 billions of dollars . . in Pacific fleet, island fortifications, pro-
tection of our interests in the Philippines and China . . and subsequent loss of
American trade to the Japanese because of their recognized nilitary power, there
were thoso who decided that I had spiralod into stratosphero. No natter! I had
made my computations from United States Department of Commerce Abstracts . .
Later in the club grill I was held by a large contingent of my auditors
until 1:30 in the morning. The main body of thoso present acclaimed that I was
right.
Two years later I was to get repercussions fron the scoffers . . "My God,
if I'd only had sense enough to accredit what you told us that night at the Union
Club!" . . such were the lamentations.
It was in such episodes that I got in my most tolling blows against preda-
tory Jewry. I have accomplished scores of such.
whiat the Jews had to do, therefore, was to suppress such exposes by sup-
pressing me personally.
Tliis Silver Legion business had to be smashed and no nonsonse about it!
With my Manhattan and Washington business finally completed, and on my way
back to Virginia to rejoin Don in his mended plane and make the return flight to
California, I called in at a midnight lunchroom on the Baltimore Pike.
The radio was blaring out a resume of the nows of the day.
"Washington!" declaimed the announcer. "Congress today appropriated the
sum of twenty thousand dollars to finance the investigatory activities of a House
Committee led' by Congressman Dickstein of New York, duly empowered to probe the
extent of Nazi and other un-Anerican activities throughout the United States.
This body is to bo known as the MacCoraack Committee, after Congressman MacCorn-
ack of Massachusetts. Subversive activities of all kinds will be investigated
with a particular eye to vigilante organizations reputed to be financed in this
country by Gomany's pint-sized dictator, Adolf Hitler!"
"Who does that mean?" demanded young Jones, one of the attaches of my
Washington office, my motor companion of the moment.
"Us, of course," I told him grimly. "I've been expecting it for a natter
of months."
CHAPTER 25
F CALIFORNIA had been in a bedlam when I came into the State in January, it
was now a madhouse . . insofar as Silvershirt activities were concerned . .
when Don set his Steeman down in a perfect three-point landing on the Pasa-
dena flying-field one week later. My first maneuvor, after contacting my daughter
and getting her full report of happenings in ny absence, was to summon Bill Kemp
up from San Diego. Komp had shown himself to be the outstanding Silvershirt
292
connandor in the entire Golden State, ns I hnve previously inplied. He hnd the
most non enrolled, ho had then equipped, ho had then drilled. If the Reds sought
to take over California, he was prepared to give then a contest.
"What about McCord?" I der.andod of Bill when we found ourselves alone and
no cars to the walls.
"Just plain DUMB’
," exploded ny nost reliable lieutenant. "He night be a
great army officer but when it cones to knowing what wo' re up against fighting
those Jews and Reds, he's an infant in arns. You hadn't been out of the State
three days before he was issuing orders for a public nobilization and review of
all Silvershirts in the San Diego districts. Of all maneuvers on earth that'd
play directly into the hands of the Communist Jews, such a
. thing was the worst,
For months they've been spending noney like water in the lower end of the State,
and adopting every expedient known to the rabbi, to learn the identity of our
men in oach instance. The idea's to browboat then, intimidate then, or slugshot
then one by one, to desert The Legion. Now McCord wants them all brought out in
public .array where every man-jack of then could even bo PHOTOGRAPHED. When I re-
fused to jeopardize ny fellows so, ho cane down to San Diego to haul me on the
carpet for insurbordination. And while in the city, he was entertained in the hone
of a woman who has Communist Jews bumbling around her like flics about a honoy-pot,
When I wouldn't mobilize ny men and put them all on the sjjot, he next ordered me
to have a contingent of them at a
. public meeting in San Diego as ushers. I knew
that also was going to become just a Communist set-up. Again I refused. But I
understand that he held his meeting, and all the rabbis' dearest friends and in-
timates were out in full force. I gave up in disgust. Next I heard from Los
Angeles, the young adjutant he'd appointed, a chap named Case, had incorporated
the California Legion .and put himself at the head of it, 'Policy's too incompe-
tent to lead this movement,' he told the fellows. 'He's afraid of taking action.
Kis own leaders won't obey the orders of the men he loft in supreme control. We
must have a Legion of Silvershirts that grapples with the situation as it de-
serves.' And so they raised a pot to finance the incorporation. Two nights
later young Case got into a drunken gun-fight on Santa Monica Boulevard and I
suppose Adelaide's told you how the local papers snoared it?"
I nodded, thinking deeply. "Chief of Silvershirts Arrested in Drunken
Brawl!" had been the announcements. Only when the reader followed far far down
into the mazes of fine-point type was it reported that the "Chief of the Silver-
shirts" so deporting himself was not a nan named Pelley, but an unknown by tho
name of Case. And Case was still in the hoosgow with a serious charge against
him. "Stand by," I told Kemp. "I'm going to tho mat on this, to show the nation
I can control ny own Legion!"
An interview with the Colonel brought me no satisfaction, only diatribes
against Kemp for not obeying orders. Ten minutes of conversation showed no that
Colonel McCord was not ny von Steuben. In all kindness to the gentleman, when it
came to adroit handling of forcos to be pitted against the wiles of Jewish Reds,
ho lacked the faintest idea of what it was all about . .
But he did slap me in the face with a ruinous expense and salary account
which I must pay. And ho denied participation in the incorporation of the bogus
Legion except as he had been persuaded that the men had acted at my express stip-
ulation. Afterward it was brought to me for ny consideration that rumors were
afloat in Los Angeles that young Case was being paid $75 a month from the Communist
war chest to get into The Silver Legion and bring it down to grief.
For the next two weeks, therefore, I battled this deceitful situation,
won back those men who had boon honestly gulled, forced the incorporators to re-
linquish, and washed tho bogus Legion out. Case was fined for assaulting an
officer, released, and not hoard from further. I picked Kemp and two other out-
standing group leaders to function in future as a triumvirate ovor California
293
Legion affairs. Excitement simmered down. The “
bogus Silver Ranger newspaper
stopped its appearance and our own tabloid went forward to increased sales as
formerly. But the rabbis of the Coast did not propose to let the nonace con-
tinue unchallenged. Meotings were being held weekly in Los Angeles drawing as
high as a thousand persons in the audience. I was beginning to impress upon
Legionaires the necessity for thoroughly schooling and preparing themselves for
the real fight ahead, recognizing and upholding the true purposes of the organ-
ization, which was not to bait Jews but to know what to do in the event that the
nation*s economic system cracked . , as I knew it was ultimately due to crack . .
and red riot superceded orderly Constitutional government.
The episode had further disclosed to thousands of Legionaires the ser-
iousness of the problem of opposition arrayed against us, how the Jewish Commun-
ists work to achieve their ends, and what sensible precautions have to bo taken to
safeguard the lives and property of innocent citizens. Sub-leaders were commen-
cing to grasp the need for leadership that WAS leadership, not a mere appointment
to a place of authority. With these labors behind me in the lower half of the v
State, I was preparing one morning to move on up to San Francisco when a night-
wire reached me from Sieber in Asheville —
GALAHAD PRESS IN SERIOUS LITIGATION. STOTT AND COMPANY
OF WASHINGTON, D. C. HAVE SECURED RECEIVERSHIP FOR NON-
PAYMENT BALANCE OF BILL. MAY HAVE TO DECLARE BANKRUPTCY
TO ABSOLVE SILVER LEGION FROM CONNECTION. HOLD YOURSELF
IN READINESS FOR VERY NECESSARY RETURN.
I made my up-state journey with disquiet in my heart. No sooner did I get
one mess cleaned up, than these Jewish termites, never quiet, provoked a fresh
mess elsewhere. And my half-trained surbordinates were unable to grasp that it
was all one attack, engineered more or less from a central source, ruthlessly
determined to find a way to stomp me out by fair means or foul. True, they were
becoming educated fast, my associates, but with a country as large territorially
as America it was an oxhausting life to watch all holes in the national dyke and
hold the reservoir of our organization forever intact till men in all quarters
were equipped to handle themselves.
I had been in San Francisco but two days, attending to some private mining
interests of my own in Oregon which possibly might materialize in ample finances
for the movement, when I got a bulky airmail letter from Sieber.
"Headquarters have been completely ,
pitted," I announced to Helen, who was
working with me in the Bay District at the moment.
"Gutted!" she echood. "You mean we've had a fire?"
"Sieber says the Dickstein Committee has begun its congressional sittings
in Asheville, and almost its first move was to back vans up to headquarters and
move everything out."
"You mean . . headquarters is shut down? How could they do that?"
"That's for us to find out. We're going ea.st as fast as we can drive it."
It was, of course, the most tolling blow directed against our labors to
the moment. These Communistic Jews had found no way to cramp us financially,
challenge my statements about their activities, intimidate our enlightened workers
successfully, or halt The Silver Legion by slander and defamation. So now they
had turned to the powers of the Congress. The federal government itself was in
the atrocious position of investigating and annihilating a nation-wide hook-up of
Christian patriots whose only desire had been to protect our people from utter
ruin. To challenge and expose the alien plotters as we had done was "un-American'
it seemed. If patriots knew what was good for them, they should keep their
voices silent and graciously allow the predatory Jews to do what harm they would.
294
We started that sane night from San Francisco. The next day found us far
in Nevada. Meanwhile I had despatched a cryptic message to Sieber to meet ne at
a rendezvous in the niddle west.
Onward I cane across America, putting State after State "behind no. In
Illinois I picked up a copy of a Chicago newspaper. Dickstein in an interview
with reporters had given it out that "naturally Pelley can't "
b
e found . . he’s
fled to Mexico to esca.pe the results of his nisdeeds." Such reports, circulated
the length and "breadth of the land, were only a prelude to reams of sinilar
defamations that presently were to become part of the Silver Legion tradition.
Naturally such would follow, the Now York offices of the Associated Press where
such items are distributed, being fron 60 to 70 percent Jewish.
At eleven o'clock at night I encountered a party of my loyal associates
fron Asheville at a spot in midwest country under the stars. Harry's first state-
ment conveyed the ordeal that faced ne.
"You’ve been indicted by the BuncombeCounty Grand Jury on thirteen counts
of fraud," he announced.
"FRAUD!" I echoed, "Fraud in what?"
"Selling stock illegally in Galahad Press."
"How did I sell stock illegally in Galahad Press?"
"You ran an advertisement in The New Liberator two years ago asking folks
for funds to carry on the work and saying you'd reimburse then with stock in the
Press."
"What if I did? I had every right to do it. The State of New York had
given me the right,"
"Sure. Maybe. Only you made the mistake of having the magazine physically
printed in North Carolina. And the Commissioner at Raleigh hadn't okayed your
corporation."
"This is preposterous!" I exclaimed in hot anger.
"Maybe it's preposterous but it happens to be the facts. They got a
receivership against us on the balance of a bill we owed stationers in Washington.
Immediately they seized control of the books, they combed then for the slightest
irregularities. Of course, helped by Anderson."
"ANDERSON! George Anderson?"
"Yep. He's been staying around Asheville, laying to get you for the way
you kicked him out. I've heard that he recently made a mysterious trip to New
York and Washington. Anyhow, he's in cohoots with the Jew crowd in Asheville
who are out to smash us. Printing that advertisement in a magazine published
inside of North Carolina was the biggest count in the indictments. Thereafter
every stock certificate you issued constitutes a count."
"But I never sold a dollar's worth of stock fron that ad. The certificates
I issued were for blocks of stock in the Press that people had contracted for a
long tine ago in New York and been paying for in installments."
"You'll have to leave that to the judge. They've indicted you on sixteen
counts in all, a~nd a warrant's been issued for your arrest. Right this minute
you're a fugitive from justice."
"Whoopee!" I laughed. "It certainly IS a dangerous job, isn't it, to try
to save your country from the Reds!"
"What'll you do?" Harry asked forlornly.
"Do?" I retorted. "’
That else is there to do . . but get down there as
soon as possible and fight 'em to a thrashing!"
"The trouble is, they've seized all our records, cleaned out our place,
put themselves in possession of everything you need to make a defence."
"Oh yes," I said, "how about that gutting? What happened, anyhow?"
"A crowd of strong-arm men calling thenselves 'federals' . . whatever
federals are . . pushed their way into the place late one Saturday' night when
295
only Charles, the negro janitor, was guarding the prenises. They loaded every-
thing into vans in twenty ninutes, and the vans turned the corner. I don't know
where the stuff is, or what's being done with it."
"Did they have any authority to do it? . . a warrant, or anything?"
"If they did I've never heard of it. You see, Kraner, the Jew Congressman
from Los Angeles, has been holding hearings in tho federal building in Asheville,
putting all of us through star-chamber sessions on the charge that we're Nazis.
You'll hear all about it fron the folks when you get down there."
"You start back immediately," I orderod Sieber, "as soon as you've got a
little rest. I can't let you be drawn into this, for 'harboring a fugitive from
justice' , no natter how heinous ny crimes nay be. See our local lawyers and
arrange for ny bond. The ninuto you advise ne tho bond's all okay, I'll subnit
to arrest. Then we'll leave it to the court as to how much 'wrong' I've done."
CHAPTER 26
T NAS a now and sonewhat novel sensation, being a fugitive fron justice. I had
been through nan;/ strange adventures in ny life, but this capped then all. I
had never registered ny Galahad Press corporation in North Carolina because I
was liquidating it, having lost control of it as previously mentioned when Joyce
and Olive had dropped fron ny affairs. Besides, the appeal for donations on which
the case wa,s built had expressly stated in cold type that it was not a stock-
selling advertisement. How could I be nade out a criminal by merely issuing stock
certificates to installment purchasers in States outside of North Carolina when
contracts had been nade long before Asheville as a base of operations was ever
thought of? I did not know the horriblo viciousness of Jewish influence behind
the legal machinery of our country as I subsequently encountered it. People of
Asheville wore beingtre ated to tho spectacle of Pelloy being "investigated" by
the federal Congress. Thai of itself implied fearsome irregularities. Nov/ cane
this stock-jobbing charge, ample foundation for a fresh campaign of villification
and disparagement across the nation . .
Yes, the Jews certainly were out to "get" The Silver Legion. They were
out to demonstrate that no one can challenge the depredations of Jews in this land
of the free and be successful thereafter in their projects,
I was up against a form of the American OGPU . .
The nation's penitentiaries yawned for ne.
It was a sonewhat disconfuddlicated crowd of Israelites, locally and
nationally, however, who received the news that I had voluntarily appeared in
North Carolina and submitted to arrest. They had heralded it far and wide that
I had fled to Mexico, and I had not fled anywhere but to Asheville, straight to
the forefront of my accusers, demanding to be informed "what it was all about" . ,
My bond had been arranged, however. My arrest was a technicality. I was
not locked up. That hectic election day back in Chicopee when I had exposed the
French mayor, has been the only 24 hours in my life that I have ever been res-
trained behind bars.
Whereupon I went into council with my attorneys.
The State had no case whatever, these lawyers assured ne. North Carolina
had no jurisdiction over stock sold and issued in other States. As for the pub-
lishing of the magazine in North Carolina, it had merely been giving a job printer
a job. Never one attempt had ever been made to dispose of stock to North Carolina
people. On one occasion I had nade a present of ten shares of Galahad stock to a
student at the college, but that was because of her generous donations to the work
of The Foundation for Christian Economics. She had wanted the certificate as a
souvenir. The stock itself had been certificates surrendered to me by forner
296
stockholders who had wished ne well in liquidating the Press for reasons which I
had fully explained to thon. What the Jew Crowd was specifically after was to
nake it appear that because Galahad Press and the Silver Legion had occupied the
sane quarters for a few nonths in Asheville, that The Silver Legion belonged to
Galahad Press, a printing concern, and could therefore bo tkken over and examined
in the process of extermination of The Silvershirts which was afoot, paid for by
American taxpayers.
What, I wondor, will the Americans of fifty years hence think of this
rocord, and the infamous practices which the predp.tory crowd were allowed to
pursue?
Thecharges against me were so frail that ny lawyers scarcely bothered
about ny defense. They were far more concerned over the bankruptcy proceedings
and the information which night be screwed out of me at the federal hearings and
used against me in the criminal caso.
"They're out to get you, Pelley, and they're going to do it," was the con-
solation that I got from local acquaintances, however.
"We'll see about that," I invariably retorted.
"Sure we know that the Jews own the country," they would allow. "It's in-
sanity to think that one lone man can smash their hold,"
"Then I'm insane as well as a criminal," I declared.
I did not say it in bravado. I believed that nothing existed which had
been built by nanwhich could not be smashed by nan. And I had ny brevet, six
years old. WhatI was going through was all part of the tradition of the move-
ment, history of this period in the making.
I wanted ny trial consummated and the annoyance done with. I had a nation
of Legionaires to head. I could not afford to be held too long on such silly
charges in North Carolina.
I soon discovered that holding me as long as possible in North Carolina
was all part of th4 program arranged for by mine adversaries. If they could hold
ne under bond within the State indefinitely, their data on the Press and the Legion
secured by the Dicksteiners would enable thon to use their agents about America
to disintegrate the Legion district by district. Thus thoroughly and adroitly
had ny own labors registered!
A trial at once? Impossible! The local district attorney wasn't "ready".
Furthermore, he pleaded that he wouldn't bo ready until he had "caught" Mont Hard-
wicke. Mont had long since moved from Asheville and we had all lost sight of
him. But he had been an officer of the corporation when the offending call for
donations had been printed. So ho too was included in the indictment, along with
Bob Summerville, and Don Kellogg. Yes, Mont too must be "caught" end brought
back to answer for his "crimes" against the peace and sovereignty of tho people
of North Carolina. So my trial was indefinite. Meanwhile I must stay cooped
up in the State or bo jailed . .
The Kramer hearings had abruptly ceased in Asheville almost simultaneously
with the news that I had not "fled to Mexico" but was headed swiftly southward.
Kramer got out and took his Jewish crowd of inquisitors with him. Not a shred of
evidence had been gathered that The Silvershirts had the slightest connection with
German Nazis, that they had ever recoived a penny of support from abroad, or that
the Silver Legion had ever done anything un-Anerican but challenge the depreda-
tions of Russocrat Jews, But the Committee . . which later got $10,000 more of
the taxpayers' money out of that nitwit Congress . . had made a neat job of puttin
itself in possession of everything at Silver Legion headquarters and giving account
ing to nobody. Subsequently, it is of interest to note, letters taken from our
office by such high-handed and unconstitutional procedure, wore brazenly repro-
duced in The Masses, America's leading Communist publication. And the Congress,
and people of the United States, had been told that the MacCormack Committee had
297
been appointed for the express purpose of investigating and smashing Connunisn,
along with Nazisn, in the nation! The Irish Congressman, MacCornack, from Mass-
achusetts, was later presented with a medal, struck off by Jews, for his most
excellent services in aiding then to smash the dangerous Silvershirts.
Figure it out!
I had returned to Asheville now, not to twirl my swivel at my desk and
resume ny labors as though I had merely been absent at lunch, but to discover
myself with only ny portable typewriter and the documents in ny briefcase . . to
show for the results of four years work. Desks, typewriters, filing cabinets,
had all been,:taken and no one knew their whereabouts. Two of Helen1s trunks,
left for safekeeping at Headquarters, had been ruthlessly seized by the United
States marshal. Just why the august Congress of the United States should sense
a menace to its longevity or sovereignty in two of a gentlewoman’s trunks filled
with lingerie and keepsakes from her Siborian war sequenco, was never made clear
by the authorities. My staff was scattered. Marion Henderson had been inhumanly
grilled in a star-chamber session by a brutal Jewish Congressman till our attorneys
protested and the girl had collapsed. Nothing about Nazism was referred to, in
these sessions. The chief point which Congressman Kramer seemed to wish to score
was the fact that fornication had been rife at Silvershirt headquarters. He had
an insane certainty that fornication MUST have gone on. He was deliberately de-
termined to prove that fornication had gone on. When Kellogg had spiritedly demand
ed of Kramer how and why the Congress of the United States was interested in such
points, whethor or not they were true, he was threatened with jail for contempt
of the Committee,
Of course Kramer proved nothing but what existed in the depths of his own
peculiar Jewish mind. Sentiment in the community began to go against such high-
handed OGPU tactics. He folded up in disgust one day and went on West, Thousands
of dollars had been squandered on these travesties of hearings. But it was public
money, under a Jewish administration, and so who cared? . .
I had left Helen with friends in Washington, D. C. I made the trip to
Asheville in company with young Jones of the Liberation News Bureau in the Capital,
We moved into a tourist cabin outside of town. All mail was being denied me . . iJ
had to go to the referee in bankruptcy or the Special Master, The attorney for
the referee in bankrptcy was a young local Jew, Alvin Kartus, He it was who sat
in on all of the subsequent hearings and directed my inquisition.
Kartus1 Gentile front and general associate in my inquisitioning was one
Robert R. Williams, an Asheville attorney, assisted likewise by one Thomas Hark-
ins, likewise an Asheville attorney, who ha.d been captain in the North Carolina
Reserve Infantry during the war. Attorney Williams played an extremely interest-
ing role in the whole litigation. He had first been made a Special Investigator
for the liacComack Conmitteo . . whatever a special investigator was . , then he
represented the grieving creditors of Galahad Press.»specifically which ones he
declined to state, even when challenged in the court . . then he became right-hand
man of County Attorney Zeb Nettles and assumed charge of prosecution of the Blue
Sky case. Attorney Williams was certainly a busy man.
The unfortunate phase of these roles of his, for me, lay in the fact that
he could use information gathered in one branch of his activities for prosecution
in another. I had not been in Asheville twenty-four hours before I was subpoenaed
as chief witness in approximately two weeks of bankruptcy examinations. lay attorn-
eys were not permitted to advise me in these examinations. I was "on the spot",
with three clever attorneys against me, one of them a Jew. And they obviously set
out to prove that as a criminal I was superior to Jesse James, Dr. Cripcn, A1
Capone, and Old Doc Cook. Hadn't I done this, and hadn't I done that? What was
my reason for doing so-and-so if I hadn't been trying to cover up something.
"Just a dan’ fishing expedition to bolster up their blue Sky case!" snapped
298
one of ny attorneys after a particularly nauseous session*
For the bettor part of two weeks, however, in the hottest days of southern
summer, I remained in the witness chair at these hearings "before the Special
Master, and fended for nysolf as I could. Sneers, insinuations, irtplications that
in previous hearings I had said what I had not, distinguished these examinations.
It was a natter of amusement to Sunnerville and nyself that after one session in
which The Protocols of the Y/ise Mon of Zion had been referred to, Attorney YYillians
turned to young Kartus and asked behind his hands, "What arc The Protocols?" Young
Kartus* face assuned a delicate pea-green , . I did not'note that ho explained.
Soneone had been insidiously at work, all of us percoived, convincing
Messrs. Willians and Harkins that I was a shystor, a racketeer, a spiritual quack,
and an undesirable citizen on principle. The finest metaphysical truths, natter
far over the heads of these workers for venonous Jewry, were treated as material of
the vilest and nost scurrilous nature.
These hearings finally ended, with exactly nothing learned of the slightest
value to the Jews who would destroy ne. I had been guilty of no breaches of
honesty in conducting the affairs of Galahad Press. True, again and again we had
been short of working capital for our enterprise, but that was no crine. It was
shown that I had reduced the indebtedness of Galahad fron sonething like $14,000
down to $3,700 in an honest liquidation, when Attorney Williams had suddenly
presented the balance of the Stott bill and demanded that it be settlod in full at
once. Reluctantly they had to let me depart. But dire things were whispered for
me, about what was to happen when ny Blue Sky case came to trial.
But when would it do so?
At tho first hearing of Superior Court, the presiding judge absolutely
refused to hear the case. Obviously he did not want to get nixed up in the natter
at all.
I was cut off from every one of my lieutenants and supporters in every
quarter of the nation. Nothing was immune against seizure. I had flouted the
Jews.
For that I should pay!
CHAPTER 27
— HE SUMMER which I was now forced to endure was insufferable because of the
idleness entailed. I could not go out of the State of North Carolina under
J penalty of forfeiting ny bond. Communications sent to ny lieutenants were
either not received or were subsequently published in the newspapers as part of
the documents of the Kramer hearings in Los Angeles. My Silver Legion men in
every State suspended activities until the outcome of ny trial was known. I
moved to a cabin out near Pisgah Mountain and sought to make the interlude a i)er~
iod of rest. But rest was impossible. For some unique reason known only to
themselves, ny persecutors suddenly drew new bills of indictment and caused me
to be officially arrested all over again. But ny bond still held and my attorn-
eys were not laggardly.
Ono beautiful event sorved to illumine the shadows of this period.
On a day in mid-July I encountered one of my attorneys on an Asheville
Street. "Policy," he asked ne, "why don't you take advantage of the present
sitting of court to have your divorce put through. You've lived in the State a
year, you've been separated fron your first wife for twelve years and the law
requires but two. Y7e can make an appearance in half an hour, have the judg-
ment recorded, and then you'll be free to marry Miss Helen,"
"Go to it!" I said eagerly.
When Superior Court opened the following day I took tho witness stand in
299
a ten—minute divorce hearing. A scratch of the judge* s pen and I walked out of
the "building a single nan once more, An hour later I was calling ny Golden—Head
from ny attorney's office.
"Listen," I said, over five hundred nilcs of distance, "I'm naking you a
proposal."
"A proposal to do what?"
"Marry no! . . anything else would he a 'proposition'."
"It's rather sudden, you know," ny lady bantered hack. But I did not niss
the slight catch in her voice,
"Truo," I said. "Eight yeans sudden. But how about it?"
"Have you . . b-been to c-court?"
1 a.ssured her that I had. "Have Jones briir; you down to the State line
on Sunday. I'll neet you thore with one of the non."
Like every daughter of Eve since Eden, she had to have tine to get her
clothes ready. But I net her on schedule, and on a cloudless afternoon of July
24th, I stood up for the second tine in ny life to put a ring that held no stone
on a woman's finger.
We were married at the country hone of Charles Milton Newcomb at five
o'clock as the sun was sinking. In a natural bower formed by mountain foliage,
in a nook washed by a murmuring brook, the perfume of wild roses and honeysuckle
in the air, we stood in a little ring formed by a dozen intimates and neighbors
and the tall blonde girl, who had straightened from bending over Katie's chair
that long ago night at Shaw's, promised to continue along the trail with me for
the Rest of the Way, no matter if prison gates swung behind me within the twelve-
month, Bob and Gladys Williams, our printer-friends ever since our advent in
Asheville, stood up with us. Bob Summerville was there, and Kial Cummings of
Hollywood, who had motored through with John Aarhus, another California faithful,
to be close to me during the trial. Hugh Ward, who had formerly been auditor at
Headquarters, was likewise present, with members of the Newcomb family. Mrs.
Bertha Newcomb cut the wedding cake at the pn.rty which followed.
So my First Disciple now became my helpmate in earnest in the fight I was
waging for a Better America. Never wore bride and groom married on a
, more per-
fect sua-.cr' s day. The mountains about us were mighty in repose. A robin sang
our wedding march from a tree across the pasture.
The scene was Peace Incarnate.
How strange that in a world made so beautiful and tranquil by Almighty
God, men's spirits should disclose themselves so madly perverse! Because I had
sought to tell ny apathetic or ignorant countrymen of the Gargantuan plot being
engineered against their liberties, I must marry as a felon in sight of the gal-
lows. But the dear girl who had essayed to make the fight with me, did not think
of that. She knew that she too had her role to play before a million American
women. She was ready to play it. She had known it from the first . ,
CHAPTER 28
’
ITIl September in prospect I wa„s well-nigh frantic. I had to have a mouth-
piece to tell ny thousands of friends throughout the nation what was happen-
ing in Asheville. Liberation Weekly had been promptly suppressed with the
aiopointnont of a Jewish rocciver for Galahad Press. Stopping that magazine seemed
to give the Hebrews a large satisfaction . . at last they were naking progress
against me. The Silver Ranger had continued to publish on the Coast until it
became nocossary for my daughter to return to New York, The Craig person, who
had let no down so griovously in Oklahoma City, had made his way through to Los
Angeles, remained in bod throe weeks . , during which time tho Legion boys sup-
300
ported hin . . then arisen to ask for his old job as editor. He was given the
place as a sort of charity. But when he had wanted to run articles hy Jews and
Communists in the sheet, Adelaide had demurred, Appealed to for directions, I
had ordered the paper stopped.
So as September drew on apa.ee, I made ny plans for the issuanco of a new
weekly, to which I gave ny own nano as ny only challenge to ny persecuting adver-
saries. We had rented three tawdry little mountain shacks on the Davis property
near Pisgah. Helen and I had the largest, Sunnerville and the rest of the boys
took the others. Here we proceeded to set up editorial quarters with desks and
tables made from old lumber and boxes. We had two portable typewriters between
us. The cabins burned oil lamps, The first issue of Policy’s Weekly cane forth
on August 29th, It was identical in format with Liberation Weekly. It WAS the
Liberation Weekly, merely with change of name.
How futile these silly Hebrews are at tines, thinking they can destroy a
work that is based on a personality!
With an organ through which I could talk to ny supporters again, I felt
bettor. It enabled nc above all else to raise funds for the legal fight which
was coning. The referee in bankruptcy could not connandeer nail that was ad-
dressed to Helen as publisher, Harry Sieber, who had departed for his hone and
family immediately after ny arrival in Asheville and arrest, agreed to represent
the publication in the field. Subscriptions cane pouring in anew. With my people
hearing from no again, full support was resumed. One afternoon in town ny be-
loved attorney-friend Joseph Ford said to no —
"It’s a crime for you people to be carrying on out in those nountain
cabins when you’ve had to stand up to so much. Out in Lakevicw Park I've got a
splendid residence, almost as big as your former Headquarters. I’ll donate the
use of it if you’ll neet the taxes and interest. It nay mean that you can re-
sume work with your forner stride since there’s ample room to quarter your staff."
We accepted Mr. Ford's suggestion.
Seven months after the Kartus-Williams-Dickstoin combination had deprived
us of our premises and equipment, wo were again housed in splendid Headquarters
with new people coning in to liolp carry tho burden.
Harry E. Martin came down from Chicago, accepting ny offer of Harry
Sieber’s place. Martin, an expert businessman, accountant, and office manager,
who had arrived at those years whore he discerned the spiritual worth of the work
I had projected, joined me at his own expense and for nearly six months paid his
own bills for for the privilege of assisting.
I had that kind of friends.
Marion Henderson came back from Indiana, whither she had gone after the
ordeal at the hands of Kranor to rest and recuperate. Again I had a Pivot. Hial
drew cartoons. Young Jones of Baltimore insisted on serving. We began to build
a renovated staff, although all of these people worked merely for their board.
f T WAS during this period that Craig in Los Angelos let loose his scurrilous
J blast of defamation, embodied in a circular to The Silver Legion mailing-
list, This man, whom I had helped tine and tine again when he was physically
hungry, who had caused nc so much annoyance on account of his financial deport-
ment in Oklahoma. City, who had been restrained from printing Communist articles
in a
. Silvcrshirt Weekly, now suddenly decided that I was a delusion and a snare,
a racketeer and scoundrel. He said so in biting, blistering words, harking back
to that same old saw, "ho had been at Headquarters, therefore he knew things."
Ho was somewhat vague as to what things he knew. He merely wanted the country to
know that he had suddenly "found me out" , . It was a queer, queer way of repay-
ing kindness with defamation, but the world holds people like that, I suppose,
I learned later that a mailing list which Marion Henderson had sent my daughter
301
in Lor> Angelos, had been signed for in the registered nail by Craig and slipped
in his own pocket. To a list of those nnnes ho now addressed hinself, begging
all Silvershirt malcontents around the country to join up instead with a Legion
of his own, which he had bethought him to pronoto,
he published one issue of a newspaper, discovered that organizing the
United States to fight predatory Communism was something more than having some
money for printing bills, followed his defamatory circular with a mhneographed
wheeze of hate against no, and oxpirod to stay expired as a militant crusader.
I had more important business on my hands than worrying over Craig.
Sieber had joined the Saint Gemainers in Chicago and was busy proselyting
up and down the land that "Policy was all washed up," implying thereby that I was
headed for jail, that I had "failed to learn my lesson" because I had dared to
continue the fight against the Jews with the Headquarters' crack-down, and that
what the country needed metaphysically was not Liberation Doctrine, but the proach-
nents of one B.allard. In New York ho had called together audiences of former
Fellowship students, allowing them to understand that he had a message from me in
Asheville, "ifaereupon they learned from the platform that the mantle of leader-
ship spiritually in the nation had boon transferred to the shoulders of a mythi-
cal Saint Germain. Perhaps so. Time would tell.
I had a bit of a heartache when I thought over the many things I had done
for Harry, helping him with his personal expenses, saving his family from being
put on the sidewalk. But whon I mentioned those things he wrote me back a
. most
unkind letter, telling me arrogantly that ho considered that anything I had paid
him he had earned. If he wantod to throw in his lot with Ballard, that was his
ovn affair. Two months later a
. hurtling automobile on the Baltimore Pike had
knocked him a hundrod feet and loft him on the side of the road for dead. Where-
upon the Ballards dropped him and the last word I heard from him, he was peddling
insurance in Philadelphia,
Lifo has a queer way of adjusting its compensations.
Any leader, to be such, I maintain, must overlook the limitations of these
people of personal vision. I know that I have been many times criticized for
ever taking them on to begin with. There is a
. class of supporter who assumes that
a man in my position should judge infallibly who will serve and who will default.
The grin humor of the situation lies in the fact that I often DID know who would
stand firm and who would flee when the "heat" wa.s turned on. But I had no others
to take their places. I say again, I had to produce the best results possible with
the human material given to ay hand. I was keeping ny vision on the Larger Circum-
stance. All non were not defaulters. If the Asheville litigation did nothing
elso, it showed ne which men would stand firm and which men would wilt,
I hold no er.mity against these persons who could only sec the project when
the days were bright and trouble far off. After all, they thought the thoughts
which cane to then, and that was a.ll which I did myself. Regardless of what the
Jews think or say to the contrary, I'm an oxceeding poor hater. If a man or
woman doesn't want to travel along with ne the whole way, they doubtless have their
reasons. The loss or the gain is strictly theirs alone.
Thanksgiving passed and still I could not get ny ca.so to trial. Each tine
that I brought costly attorneys together, paid the expenses of ny witnesses from
distant points, screwed up ny mottle to face ny accusers, tho district attorney
had some reason or other by which ho wasn't "ready" . . This drain on ny finances
was almost unbearable. The week cane when I finally had to suspend Policy's
Weekly and fall back on a mimeographed Bulletin to hold ny folk in lino.
At la.st, in January, after an appeal to the Governor of tho State to appoint
a Judge, and after Mont Hardwicko had finally been located andpersuaded to come
to Ashevillo and battle beside ne, the great State of North Carolina got down to
the business of doing the bidding of tho Jews, My case was called for tho 7th of
January, Nov/ at last the crisis had cornel . .
302
