{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__patti___wrania.pdf","mytitle":"Wrania","mylang":"de"}
WRANIA
MYSTIC ASTRONOMY
UZICAN SCIENCE
THE MYSTIC PYRAMID
A TREATISE TO
A HIGHER SCIENCE
BY W. CHAS. PATTI
Published for W . CHAS. PATTI
Los ANGELES
1936
COPYRIGHTED, 1936, By w. Chas. Patti
Al.L RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
OY THE UZ!CAN PRESS
LOS ANGELES, CA L.
DEDICATED TO THE
LOVING MEMORY
OF MY
MOTHER
FOREWORD
To you from failing hands,
We throw the Torch!
Be yours! To hold it high.
If you break faith with us, who die,
We shall not sleep,
Though poppies blow, in Flanders Field.
-From the Poem , Flanders Field.
Lieut. Colonel John McRae.
CONTENTS
PART PAGE
PREFACE
I. MYSTIC ASTRONOMY......................................................
What Is Ether?..................................................................
What Are Lines Of Force?................................
What Is Magnetism? ......................................................
What Is Gravitation ? ....................................................
What Are Vortexias? .......................................................
How Far From The Earth Does Its Magnetism
Extend? .....................................................
What Is Light? .................. ...............................
What Is Darkness? ........................................ .....
Does The Earth Receive Light or Da rkness
From the Sun? ..............................................
Does the Earth Have More Than One Satellite
or Moon? .................. ................................... 4
Is (Relativity) A Reality In The Universe? 4
Are Planetary And Stellar Measurements
Real or Illusory? .....................................................
Do All Planets Have Life Manifestations? ...... 6
Do The Distant Stars Influence The Solar System? 6
How Many Degrees Are There In A Circle?.......... 6
Is The Precession Of The Poles A Real Motion?....
Does The Solar System Revolve In An Elliptical
Orbit Within The Zodiac?....................................
Where Is The Solar System?...................................... 10
Has The Sun Only One Motion In Its Orbit? ......... 11
How Does Life Proceed On Earth?............ ··-··········· 11
Which Is Most Highly Evolved, The Earth
Or Moon? .................................................................. 15
Does The Planet Vulcan Exist?.................................... 15
What Causes The Sun Spots?······················-·······-···-· 17
Where Do Our Meteors Come From?........................ 18
How Are Meteors Replenished?............................. 19
The Sphinx And The Great Pyramid, Cheops
or Kufu ................................................................... 19
The Mystic Stars Of Taurus And Orion.................... 23
II. UZICAN SCIENCE ------- -------------------------- ___
__
__ ____ 2S
The Uzican Zodiac ------------------------------- - __ 26A
The Birth Date Of The U. S. A. and
The City Of Los Angele! ____ _ _
__ __HA
The Origin And Evolution Of The Pyramid
Cheops _
_
_
_
___ __ ------------------------------- ------------ ____ _
___3SA
Mystic Astronomy Of The Sphinx _ 48
Stellar Revelation Of The Destiny Of The U.S.A.
And The City Of Los Angeles, In Conformity
With The Scriptures, Based On The Spiritual
Astronomy Of The Great Pyramid Cheops
Or Kufu ------ --------------------·---· -·-·---- 61
III. THE MYSTIC PYRAMID........
Astronomical Delusions ___
_____ _
Pyramid Measurements ......
Celestial Orientation -----------------------------
Four Square Gospe'---------·------------------------·
Equalization of Measurements ______
____
Spiritual Symbolism
The Star Spangled Banner
The Sacred Cubit .............................. --·----·-----·--
The Constitution _
____________ ---·-·--·----------·-
Compounding Measurements _
Conclusion ····--·------------------------ --------·----------------
68
68
76
82
89
94
107
112
122
128
132
140
PREFACE
For the reader who wishes to see this book as the
author sees it, the following statement of its main char-
acteristics may be helpful:
I. The work is divided into three divisions.
2. It is an educational book rather than a social
science book.
3. The Selected references for the various chapters
have been chosen as follows:
MYSTIC ASTRONOMY
The object of this work is to assist in the clarification
of some of the mysteries of the heavens around us.
We undertake the solution of problems in astronomy,
(one of the sublime sciences) which baffles our modern
scientific mechanics. We sincerely hope that we may shed
a little light along the path onward to a higher under-
standing of our universe, so we may become (super-men)
of Aquaria.
The medium of explanation of these problems, is ac-
complished by the method of answering questions, pre-
sented by the exponents of this work.
UZICAN SCIENCE
The object or motivating spirit for presenting this
work, is to elevate the old science of the Stars, generally
known as Astrology, out of the category of superstition
and degradation it has been subjected. A lost art that has
been relegated to pseudoism. An art that was highly de-
veloped and understood by the early Egyptian civiliza-
tion. An art that was highly practiced by Abraham, the
Sons of Seth, Job and many more of the scriptural
writers.
We read in the book of Job, "Knowest thou the or-
dinances of the heavens? Cans't Thou bind the sweet
influences of the Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?
Cans't thou bring forth Mazaroth in his season, or cans't
thou guide Arcturus with his Son's?"
We will recede into great ages passed away, :ind pro-
ceed up into the distant future, into the Aquarian age
when Astraea will return to Earth and the Golden Age,
will become a reality to the peoples of the Earth.
In this work is attempted the solution of some of the
mysteries in the Pyramids and Sphinx of ancient Egypt.
Astronomical charts are presented on the origin and evo-
lution of the Pyramid , and the master key numbers, con-
cealed by the silent Sphinx, for a perfected astronomy is
revealed.
We sincerely hope we may bring light and spiritual
enlightenment to whom-so-ever may contact this book.
THE MYSTIC PYRAMID
We will reveal in this work some of the scriptural
and astronomical truths of the Great Pyramid of Gaza,
Egypt, "The Flower of The Nile".
We will reveal magnetic measurements of the heavens
and its motions, which are atcuratelv measured and re-
corded in the great pyramid. We wi°Il reveal astronomi-
cal measurements of the heavens. measured from the four
cardinal stars, measurements that the modern astronomer
dare not hope to accomplish with his scientific astronomi-
cal mechanics.
We will reveal the true length of the Sacred Cubit,
which varies as the solar system translates the great
Sidereal Zodiac. Probably the most intricate magnetic
measurement in the Solar Zodiac.
We will reveal measurements in the pyramid of the
Sacred Cubit's true magnetic length, when it was erected,
which designates the time of its construction. All meas-
urements in this spiritual astronomical symbol, all the
way from the sub-base line to the very apex, reveal this
truth.
Our purpose in presenting this work is to reveal the
absolute truths of the Christ teachings. We read in St.
Matthew's Gospel, the twenty-first chapter, the forty-
second verse-Jesus said unto them, " Did ye never read
in the scriptures, the stone which the builders rejecteJ,
the same is become the head of the corner, this is the
Lord's doing and it is marvelous in our eyes. (43rd.)
Therefore say I unto you, the Kingdom of God shall
be taken from you and given to a nation bringing forth
the fruits thereof. (44th.). And whosoever shall fall on
this stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall
fall , it will grind him to powder".
We read in the book of Job, the thirty-eighth chapter,
the fourth verse-"Where wast thou when I laid the
foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast under-
standing. (5th verse) . Who hath laid the measures
thereof, if thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line
upon it? (6th verse) . Whereupon are the sockets thereof
made to sink? or who laid the corner stone thereof? (7th
verse )-When the morning stars sang together, and all
the Sons of God shouted for joy".
We sincerely, and truthfully reveal the Christ teach-
ings will be fulfilled through the Great American Em-
blem, "The Stars and Stripes forever."
Los Angeles, California.
June 22, 1936.
\V. CHAS. PATTI
MYSTIC ASTRONOMY
WHAT IS ETHER?
This universe of ours, in which all Stars, Comets,
the Sun, Planets and our Earth including all other sub-
stantial bodies; have motion, is inter-penetrated with
ether. Ether has no confined limits. Having extension
beyond all interstellar space, into infinity. Ether is not
a substance. We may call it the agency or medium of
God's manifestation throughout our most beautiful and
sublime universe.
WHAT ARE LINES OF FORCE?
All material or substantial objects, or bodies in motion
through-out the universe cause a distortion of ether, de-
pending on their velocities, sizes, masses, densities, dis-
tances, etc. This distortion creates magnetic lines of
force.
WHAT IS MAGNETISM?
These lines of force are made perceptible on our planet
by what we call magnetism. Any one who possess knowl-
edge of electricity is familiar with lines of force and
magnetism. They are the fundamentals of Electricity,
and the medium of gravitation.
WHAT IS GRAVITATION?
The magnetic qualities, or properties which a body in
motion possesses, without any question of doubt, is its
gravitational force, to attract or repel.
This is the great law which keeps the bodies of our
solar system, in their marvelous and uniform motions,
throughout all time and space into infinity.
WHAT ARE VORTEXIAS?
The relative motions of the bodies of a system, rela-
tive to all other bodies of other systems generate powerful
magnetic currents in all bodies, proportionate to their
velocity, mass, density, volume, distance, etc.
These magnetic currents that influence a body, from
a particular direction, are a magnetic vortexia. All bodies
possess unlimited numbers of vortexias. The power of
these vortexias depend on the relative number of lines
of force on a body from all distant ones. Some vortexias
are more powerful than others, never remaining perma-
nent in a particular point of direction. The magnetic
needle which has a tendency to point to our north pole,
continually oscillates, increasing during the morning
hours after sunrise, and decreasing after the Sun has
passed the meridian in the afternoon. Repeating the
same fluctuations during the night in a similar manner.
The needle now points west of the true north, receding
towards the north as the years pass by.
The earth's primary vortexia has a general direction
of north and south. In its very .:enter or core its mag-
netic force is most powerful. Its true center is removed
from the true diametrical center due to the forces of
other bodies of the universe, particularly the Sun and
our neighbor the Moon, who exerts the greatest influence
with one addition , another body which is also a satellite
of the earth. We will deal with it later on.
Following is a diagram to illustrate the primary
vortexia of mother (earth)? (For refPrence see Chart
No. 1.)
The magnetic currents take a general direction from
the star (Polaris), our present pole star and move in a
spiral direction to the magnetic center of the earth, where
they converge in a focus, and then expand spirally toward
the South celestial pole in the southern heavens. At the
year of nineteen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) , the
magnetic needle will point approximately true north.
This will be due to the supposedly-recession of the equi-
noxes, which will bring the Star Polaris about true north .
At that period we will receive the direct influences
of the Pole Star. We will deal with the illusion of the
precession of the poles later.
2
POllV7" (),:
'$ . P'..:.<IRll'Y
CllA/?TAlo. I
/LfIJSJRAT/JYt 1'1AffilETIC //ORTEXIA
Remember the earth has an unlimited number of
vortexias penetrating its magnetic central core from all
conceivable directions.
HOW FAR FROM THE SURFACE OF THE EARTH
DOES ITS MAGNETISM EXTEND?
Cammile Flammarion the great F:rench Astronomer,
had mathematically calculated our extreme atmospheres
at approximately twenty-six thousand two-hundred and
forty (26,240) miles. At approximately twenty-six thou-
sand one-hundred and thirty-six (26,136) miles is the
distant belt of the heavens, where our magnetism is neu-
tralized.
WHAT IS LIGHT?
Light is a high oscillatory vibration caused by mag-
netism. Therefore light can only be made manifest where
lines of force produce the proper magnetic vibrations.
WHAT IS DARKNESS?
Darkness is exactly the same as light but the vi-
brations are of a lower order.
Now we are arriving to the analysis and understand-
ing of one of the mysterious phenomenas of the heavens.
Remember light manifests only where the magnetic con-
ditions are favorable. At approximately twenty-six thou-
sand one-hundred and thirty-six (26, 136) miles our
magnetism has reached the point of the heavens where
light does not manifest, due to magnetic neutralization.
At this distant belt light is translated into invisibility.
DOES THE EARTH RECEIVE LIGHT OR DARKNESS
FROM THE SUN?
We must answer in the negative. No! This is not
in accord with accepted theories of Astronomy, but
(never-the-less) true. All the light, heat, and all other
manifestations on earth are caused by the magnetic or
gravitational forces exerted on it by other bodies of the
heavens. Of course the Sun is the principal body that
3
magnetically brings about the manifestation of day and
night. So light and darkness are properties of mother
earth.
Now we will deal ·with a problem that may startle
the student indeed.
DOES THE EARTH HAVE MORE THAN ON'E
SATELLITE OR J\100:-;?
Yes! Its name is "Lilith". Why ha~ it not been
observed with the telescope? Because it has an orbit dis-
tant from the earth at approximately twenty-six thousand
one hundred and thirty-six ( 26,136) miles. in the belt of
the heavens we have just described, where light ceases
to be, and invisibility prevails.
All bodies having orbits at this distance from the
earth become invisible. Remarkable! Almost unbeliev-
able! But a real truth indeed. "Lilith" has been observed
many times in the last three centuries. One French
astronomer observed it a large number of times, and
other astronomers likewise. So now we have an invisible
satellite, named "Lilith". It is observable onlv when
it transits the disc of the Sun. Previously and immedi-
atelv after its transit it is invisible, due as we said before,
to the lack of magnetism at that distance from the earth
to produce the phenomena of light.
!'\ow this Satellite "Lilith" revolves in its orbit in
approximately ele\'en ( 11 ) days. So mother earth has
two moons, or satellites. Before we proceed to other prob-
lems of Mystic Astronomy, the astronomers who have
seen this orb pass over the disc of the Sun, suspected that
they were possibl~· observing the supposedly planet (Vul-
can), a problem \1·e will deal with later. One astronomer
went so far as to compute an orbit for it. and determine
its next transit. But unfortunate!\' it did not transit as
he had computed. .
IS RELATIVITY A REALITY IN THE UNIVERSE?
Yes, indeed, very much so·! All magnetic conditions
of one body are translated to all the rest of the bodies,
4
and vice-versa. According to the nebular theory of the
formation of a system all bodies are relative in all ma-
terial substance and manifestations. As the old hermetic
law goes, "As above, so below".
There is no doubt what-so-ever as to the truth of
the nebular theory. As all bodies proceed from the one,
they all partake of the same spirit and substance or
matter.
We have now over ninety (90) di~tinct elements
within our earth. This condition also prevails in the
Sun, and all the planets and their satellites in our Solar
System. The earth manifests light, heat, and all other
forces it has of its own substance or matter as we ex-
plained earlier by magnetism, translated over the ethers
by lines of force which are generally known as gravita-
tion. The Sun and the rest of the planets do like-wise,
generate light, and other manifested conditions, due to
their own vortexias, of magnetism, relative to other
bodies, of the heavens.
All bodies in the universe are relative. The theory
of relativity proves its-self eve rywhere in nature, as
has been revealed by the great genius Einstein.
AR·E PLANETARY AND STELLAR MEASUREMENTS
REAL OR AN ILLUSION?
According to the law of magnetic vortcxia which we
have just explained, all these measurements are illusory.
Suppose we turn the telescope at total eclipse towards the
Sun, and observe the magnificent beauty of color revealed
to us by the corona. What do we actually observe? Our
own light! Caused by the translation of the Sun and
Moon's magnetic vortexias, which are translated to our
own magnetic vortexias. This is not in accord with ac-
cepted astronomical theories, but never-the-less true.
All planetary and stellar measurements are relative
to our own measurements withir. the confines of our mag-
netic vortexias.
5
DO ALL PLANETS HAVE LIF E MANIFESTATIONS?
According to the laws just expounded, Yes!
All planets have life of some form manifested on
them. Otherwise relativi ty would not be in accord with
the other theories just expounded. \Ve have records of
ancient days where people of other planets visited the
earth.
The Astronomer and Astrologer Cardan, supposedly
had a visit by two men from the moon. This may be true.
The exponents of this work remain noncommital.
DO THE DISTANT STARS IN FLUE NCE THE SOLAR SYSTE:VI?
Yes. All the stars exert inAuence on our system, as
we have previously stated, according to the power of their
magnetic vortexias or gravitational forces of attraction
and repulsion.
We will now proceed to deal with a problem that will
startle the student indeed.
HOW MANY DEGREES ARE THERE IN A CIRCLE?
The answer to this question will no doubt confound
the geometricians. There ar~ three-hund red and sixty-
three (363) degrees in a perfected circle. The number
of degrees in the circle has come down to us from great
antiquity. Much older than the earliest astronomical
measurements of the Moon, which some learned astrono-
mers would lead us to believe. Man made his first as-
tronomical measurements, when he wondered in amaze-
ment at that luminous disc that passed over his head
daily-the glorious Sun, of the H eavens. He gauged his
activities according to the orb of L ight. Eventually he
marveled at the orb of Night, the Goddess Diana or the
Moon. Finally hy continually combating the elements
he arrived at an intellectual plane of being, able to com-
prehend the change of seasons. EYentually the truth
dawned on him that the seasons \Vere in accord with the
motion of the Sun through the H eavens daily. As time
proceeded he came to realize that the Moon also had its
6
part to play in the great drama of life. Finally he became
intelligent enough to measure the seasons in accord with
the number of times the Sun passed over the Zenith or
Mid-heaven. This has been the source and origin of
the number of degrees in a circle.
The early Egyptians measured the seasons with three-
hundred and sixty (360) passages of the Sun over the
Zenith which was quite accurate for that remote date.
Before proceeding, there is no doubt whatever that the
Egyptians had a most remarkable understanding of the
motions of the heavens. It is evident to anyone who
delves into the symbolism of the Heiroglyphics and Arch-
aeology of the early Egyptian civilization. Today there
stands a perfected monument possibly the oldest monu-
ment on Earth, oriented astronomically, in such a manner,
that one who has the key, and proper knowledge may use
it to measure past ages, and future ages to come. Such
is the wisdom of the Heavens the Egyptians possessed.
Also we must mention the Pyramids, particularly the
Pyramid Cheops or Khufu. The Pyramid Khufu is also
of great antiquity, but of a later civilization. All the
Pyramids were oriented to certain Stars of the Heavens.
Our reason for calling particular attention to the Pyra-
mid Khufu, is, while delving into its veiled secrets, there
was presented to us the necessary knowledge to measure
a perfected circle, which consists of three hundred and
sixty-three (363) degrees. Before we proceed with the
circle of three-hundred and sixty-three (363) degrees,
we must also state at this time that a cubit which was a
measurement in common use amongst the Egyptian as-
tronomers consisted of twenty-one (21) and a fraction of
an inch. Today this same cubit is the approximate pquiva-
lent of twenty-two (22) inches. To be accurate at the
year of four-thousand four-hundred and twenty-seven
(4427) A. D., the cubit will be exactly twenty-two (22)
inches. This is due to a motion of translation of the
solar system, of which we will deal with later. Our next
question is:
7
IS THE PRECESSION OF THE POLES A REAL MOTION?
The answer is: It is an apparent illusion. It is not
a real motion but only apparently so. The accepted theory
of Astronomy, is put in this manner: the earth has an
apparent motion similar to the slowing down of a spin-
ning top. Through its translation with the Sun through-
out a period of approximately twenty-five thousand eight-
hundred (25,800) years, (a point where most astrono-
mers are at a variance), a complete circle of the ecliptic
is made.
Now let's go back to the Sphinx, the great silent mys-
tery that unfolds its secret wisdom to the fortunate
possessor of the· key. Through the good fortune we had
in measuring some of its mystic astronomical symbols,
there was presented to us the accurate number of years
in a perfected sidereal year. A perfected sidereal year
consists of twenty-six thousand one-hundred and thirty-
six (26,136) years of perfected three hundred and sixty-
three (363) days, measured in a circle of three-hundred
and sixty-three (363) perfected degrees. This is in our
estimation the most remarkable of all astronomical units
of measurement.
As we proceed, we ask another question.
DOES THE SOLAR SYSTEM REVOLVE IN AN ELLIPTICAL
ORBIT WITHIN THE ZODIAC?
No doubt the student has a clear understanding of
the Zodiac. For those who do not, we will clarify the
position of this belt. It is a belt extending approxi~ately
eight (8) degrees on either side of the ecliptic, the Sun's
apparent path around the Heavens, annually. Now to
get back to the question's answer. Yes, the Sun with all
his family of planets revolves around an orbit in exactly
twenty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-six (26, 136)
perfected years.
Modern astronomy divides the Zodiac in twelve ( 12)
divisions of thirty (30) degrees each, giving us a total
of three hundred and sixty (360) degrees. Each sign is
8
represented by a constellation of Stars, bordering on the
Zodiac. One of these signs is out of harmony in the
Zodiac as constructed. This is the sign Libra repre-
sented by the Scales. There are only eleven true signs in
the Zodiac.
W e will name them, commencing with Aquarius.
The reason for this we will clarify or explain later. In
their true order they are Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus,
Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and
Capricornus. In some of the ancient Zodiacs the sign
Libra was omitted.
A circle of three hundred and sixtv-three (363) de-
grees distributed equally amongst eleve~ ( 11 ) signs, will
allot to each sign thirty-three (33) degrees. This is a
perfected Zodiac, absolutely in accord with a great
sidereal year of twenty-six thousand one hundred and
thirty-six years.
W e must return to the translation of the Solar Sys-
tem in its orbit. The Solar System's motion in its orbit,
in the same direction, as the apparent precession of the
poles, produces that illusory phenomena of precession.
During this great Sidereal year the magnetic vortexias
of the earth, causes it to incline toward the Sun from
the North, similar to having too much over-balanced
weight at the top, giving it a tendency to fall toward the
Sun. Of course it does not do this or it would be the
end of Mother Earth for all Eternity. During this trans-
lation the Earth turns over exactly three (3) degrees
of a perfected circle of three hundred and sixty-three
(363) degrees. This motion causes our North Pole to
subscribe a circle in the upper Heavens of approximately
thirty-four (34) degrees. Having some variation due to
the translation of magnetic vortexias, it may not exceed
thirty-seven (37) degrees.
No doubt the student is aware of the fact we are
dealing with measurements beyond astronomical mechan-
ics. This orbit of the translation of the poles varies con-
siderably from accepted measurements by astronomical
mechanics. By the proper application of mathematics to
9
a great sidereal year of twenty-six thousand one hundred
and thirty-six perfected years, we calculate the poles
have an apparent precession along the ecliptic. This
measure is equal to fifty (SO) seconds per year of a
perfected circle of three hundred and sixty-three (363)
degrees. The Earth also has another apparent motion,
called the variation of the obliquity of the ecliptic. Again
by applying the proper mathematics to the great sidereal
year of twenty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-six
years (26, 136) we find this motion is equal to forty-
two (42) seconds per century of a perfected year of
three hundred and sixty-three (363) days.
These units of measurement arc of perfected ac-
curacy. We do not ask the student to believe. Abso-
lutely not. Prove for yourself. We have presented you
the key. And we sincerely hope you will make use of it.
We will now proceed to one of the most difficult
measurements of the Solar System's translation, a meas-
urement that cannot be demonstrated bv astronomical
mechanics. First of all we will ask a que~tion.
WHERE JS THE SOLAR SYSTEM, OR RATHER WHAT JS ITS
APPROXIMATE DECREE OF LONGITUDE IN ITS ORBIT?
Following is a simple chart which will make it readily
clear. (For reference see Chart No. 2.)
The eleven ( 11) proper signs are represented by their
astronomical symbols. Thirty-three (33) degrees is the
proper number alloted to each sign.
If we divide the great sidereal year of twenty-six
thousand one hundred and thirty-six (26, 136) years by
eleven ( 11). the proper number of signs. we have a total
of two thousand three hundred and se\·enty-six (2,376)
years. So the Solar System transits a sign in two thou-
sand three hundred and seventy-six (2,376) years, or
makes a complete translation of its orbit in twenty-six
thousand one hundred and thirty-six (26,136) years.
The method emploved to measure the Solar S\•stem's
present position in its .orbit, we must refrain fro~ pre-
10
C/IART Alo. 2
/LLU.!TRA7/040/SOLARSYSTE/1.S
LOeA7/CJ/Y/N T8ES/.l>EREAL ZO/)/AC
senting to the student at this time. The time and occa-
sion do not permit us to do so.
We will proceed to our next question.
HAS THE SUN ONLY ONE MOTION IN ITS ORBIT?
According to the law of magnetic-vortexias it has
many more spiral motions, one of which we will explain
or clarify at present.
During its translation of its orbit the Sun makes a
spiral motion towards a point in the constellation Draco,
the great dragon of Greek mythology. According to
mythology this dragon guards the tree on which grew the
most delicious apples. Apparently if an apple could be
procured from this tree and partaken of as food, one
would receive great wisdom. There is real truth to this
story if we apply it from an astronomical standpoint. As
our civilization advances we are proceeding directly to
that tree by our spiral translation. The Solar System is
now being translated toward the beautiful Sun or Star,
Altair, of the Eagle. Arriving at the opposite point of
its orbit translating past the great regulator Regulus,
the heart of the Lion, in approximately thirteen thou-
sand and sixty-eight (13,068) years, in the great distant
future. Spiraling towards the tree in the garden, around
which old Laden the Dragon is coiled, challenging the
strong and brave who seek the wisdom concealed within
the most delicious fruit that ever grew.
We will return to Mother Earth for a while and ask
another question.
HOW DOES LIFE PROCEED ON EARTH?
As we stated before the magnetic vortexias cause the
earth to incline towards the Sun, three (3) degrees dur-
ing one translation of the Solar orbit or sidereal Zodiac.
A period of twenty-six thousand one hundred and thirty-
six (26,136) perfected years. This motion is continuous,
into infinity, or the end of existence of Mother Earth,
as a planet. Due to this motion our equator and poles
continually shift, approximately forty-two (42) seconds
11
per century. Therefore our climatic conditions are con-
tinually changing. This shift of the poles caused by the
magnetic vortexias, causes life waves to proceed from a
northerly direction toward a southwesterly direction.
This is the only means for proving the existence of life
at the North Pole at a great age gone by. Scientific ex-
peditions to the very North, have returned with animal
and vegetable specimens of a great age long passed on.
At one time what is now the North Pole was the Equator.
During a period of three billion four hundred and forty-
three million nine hundred and fourteen thousand five
hundred and eighty-four (3,443,914,584) years, our earth
makes a complete revelation, it has then evolved to the
point where it commences to rotate in the opposite direc-
tion. Of course it still continues to rotate from west
to east around the magnificent solar orb of the heavens.
We will return to an analysis of the changing length
of days, during a great sidereal year. The magnetic vor-
texias exerted upon our Solar System from the distant
stars cause its orbit to subscribe an elliptical spiral. Gen-
erating a variable motion by magnetic vortrxias decreas-
ing the velocity at one portion of the orbit and increas-
ing it at the other portion . These stellar magnetic vor-
texias cause the rotation of the Earth to be accelerated
or decelerated in like manner. During a translation of
the Solar orbit, the earth day varies from three hundred
and sixty (360) days to three hundred and sixty-six
(366) days per year. We are at this time on the in-
crease or acceleration. We continue to do so till we have
accelerated to a year of approximately three hundred and
sixty-six ( 366) perfected da~'s. This is the reason why
there were less days in a year in the early Egyptian ages.
Also the cause of change in the length of a cubit. This
also causes changes in all systems of measurements, and
influences the change of Religious Creeds. Four stages
of civilization ri~e and pass away during this translation
of a great sidereal year of twenty-six thousand, one hun-
dred and thirty-six ( 26, 136) perfected years. Each cycle
is attuned to one of the four cardinal stars.
12
During the first month of the year of nineteen hun-
dred and ninety-three ( 1993), our primary vortexia will
receive great influence from the pole star, Polaris, the
secondary vortexia from the star Altair of the Eagle.
We also receive a powerful vortexia from Regulus the
heart of the Lion, or Regulator of the heavens, and a
group of vortexias which are powerful from the Southern
Heavens at approximately twenty-two (22) degrees of
Capricornus. These vortexias affect our magnetic equi-
librium to such an extent, that there is no doubt what-
ever, old Mother Earth will respond with terrific earth-
quakes. This is the actual signal of our entrance into the
Aquarian Age. This is in accord with the revelations of
the Apocalypse and the Spiritual revelations of the Pyra-
mid Cheops.
Reading from the twelfth (12th) verse of the fifth
(5th) chapter of the Apocalypse. "And I saw when he
had opened the sixth (6th) seal, and behold there was a
great earthquake, and the Sun became black as sackcloth
of hair, and the whole Moon became as blood , and the
stars of the heavens fell upon the earth."
This may sound disastrous, but it is part of the plan
of the Master Architect of the universe, as is revealed
by St. John. So do not fear or lose any sleep over a
catastrophe that may overtake us in the fi1st month of
the year of nineteen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) .
It is fifty-eight (58) years awav at the date of this writ-
ing. We ma ~; do a little prophesying by stating that
when the year of nineteen hundred and ninety-three
( 1993) arrives, aviation will have made such great strides
of development towards its future destinv, we mav all
go for a pleasure jaunt through the H~avens on . that
fateful day. Do not become pessimistic. At the year of
nineteen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) the magnetic
needle will have returned to a true north direction. This
is due to the magnetic vortexias that influence our planet
at that distant date, which we went on to explain previ-
ously. Particularly our primary one, that will be pow-
erfully influenced by the pole star, Polaris.
13
During a translation of the poles in a great sidereal
year a number of other stars of the upper heavens be-
come our pole star. The principal large ones we will
name, in their order. Gamma of Cepheus, Alpha and
Delta of Sygnus the Swan, Gamma of Draco the Dragon,
Vega of Lyra. Beta of Draco, Theta of Draco. Alpha of
Draco, Beta of Ursa Minor or the Little Bear, and back
once more, to our present pole star Polaris of Ursa
Minor.
Polaris is at the end of the Little Bear's tail and
Beta on the tip of his nose. So apparently he has quite
a struggle to keep his equilibrium. This may be the rea-
son for his tail being stretched to rnch enormous length.
Follo,.,,·ing is presented an illustration of the ap-
parent precession of the poles orbit. (For referenCf' see
Chart N<;. 3.) In reality this orbit is some\\'hat eccentric
having a Je,·iation of approximately three degrees. The
number of ~·ears required of the Solar System to trans-
late each of the eleven ( 11) signs of the Zodiac is illus-
trated and also the number of vears for the Solar S\'stem
to make one complete translation of it$ orbit, is .illus-
trated successively.
In approximately four thousand seven hundred and
fifty (4,750) years our North Pole will be in the gen-
eral direction of Iota in the constellation of Cepheus. At
approximately seventeen thousand ( 17,000) years the
Star Bet<! of the constellation Draco becomes the pole
star. Later on it is succeeded bv the star Theta of
Draco, in approximately twenty. thousand (20,000)
years. Observe that this star is very close to the path of
the celestial pole's orbit. The Dragon we know is the
great symbol of the Chinese Nation. The star Theta is
beyond the fourth coil of the Dragon in the constella-
tion, which may be observed on the star maps.
At approximately six thousand seven hundred (6,700)
years ago a high stage of civilization prevailed in China.
This would lead us to believe, that in all probability,
the history of the human race is symbolized in the
Heavens. At that period of translation our primary
14
CHART#o.3
/fLt/S7RATIO/JI Of" THE Al'l'ROXllYA TE
Olf81T0f"TllE,,O(}LE.JO/TllEECL /PT IC-
magnetic vortexia was powerfully influenced by the star
Theta of Draco. So in all probability we are now ar-
riving to a higher stage of development, due to our pri-
mary magnetic vortexia becoming so powerfully influ-
enced by our pole star Polaris. We will return to Earth
for a while and ask another question.
WHICH IS THE MOST HIGHLY EVOLVED THE EARTH OR
ITS SATELLITE THE MOON?
We human beings seem to think the Moon was
placed in the Heavens for our special benefit. The Moon
makes one rotation on itself in approximately twenty-
eight (28) days. During this period it receives the mag-
netic translations of the Sun for fourteen ( 14) days on
one side, giving it a day equal to fourteen ( 14) of earth
days, and a night likewise.
During the Earth's translation of its orbit the Moon
revolves in its own orbit around the Earth thirteen ( 13)
time~ According to the law of Magnetic vortexia, the
Moon is much more highly influenced by the magnetic
translations of the other bodies of the heavens. So life
on the Moon apparently is much more highly evolved
than on Mother Earth. There is the possibility that the
beings on the Moon are able to perceive the struggles of
Humanity on Earth and also its other diversified mani-
festations. If there are inhabitants on the Moon, they
have no doubt drawn the conclusion that the Earth was
placed in the Heavens for their special benefit. They
woul~ have a better claim to do so, than we have of the
Moon, as the Earth serves them with a perfect time
clock. We will proceed to our next question.
DOES THE PLANET VULCAN EXIST?
What! another planet in the Solar System? Surely!
Mythology mentions Vulcan. From approximately two
(2) to four (4) thousand years ago, the Astronomers
observed this planet transit over the disc of the Sun. We
will explain the reason why later on. Many astron-
omers have spent much time in the hopes of observing
15
Vulcan. Some draw the conclusion that it does not ex-
ist. But nevertheless, it is a real planet revolving around
the Sun in an orbit. Why has not the great telescope
of modern astronomical mechanics been the means of its
observation? W c will explain as we go. Many astron-
omers have observed round black spots transit over the
disc of the Sun, drawing the conclusion it must have
been the lost planet Vulcan. But as ·we stated earlier,
they actuall~· observed the Satellite Lilith our own in-
visible Moon.
Now let's proceed to the solution of this remarkable
mvsten· which has enshrouded the Planet Vulcan
th.roughout the last age of approximately two thousand
three hundred and seventy (2,370) years. Before we
proceed, the great French astronomer, Cammille Flam-
marion, suspected an intra Mercurial Planet and a num-
ber of other learned astronomers likewise.
Vulcan's orbit lies very close to the Sun. It is ap-
proximately one ( l) million miles a·way from the solar
orb. It rotates on itself at a very high rate of velocity
due to its magnetic vortexias being inAuenced by the
nearness of the solar translations. It rotates in the re-
verse direction relative to the Sun. This is a departure
from the law that governs the other planets, with one
exception, the planet Pluto. It also rotates in the
same direction, from East to West, relative to the Sun
and Earth. It is translated through its orbit in approxi-
mately the same period of time that the Earth takes, in
translating its orbit around the Sun. Having a slight
variation, or acceleration, which we will now explain.
For a period of approximately two thousand three
hundred and seventy-six (2,376) years it is concealed by
the reverse side of the Solar disc. Then the following
period of approximately two thousand three hundred and
seventy-six (2,376) years it comes before the Solar disc,
or the obverse side. It is at the present time of printing
this treatise, to the East of the Solar disc. Due to its
nearness to the powerful magnetic vortexias of the Sun,
we cannot yet observe it with the telescope. It may in
16
all probability remain invisible till it has come directly
before the Solar disc. This is in accord with the law of
magnetic translations. We are solving one of the prob-
lems that has baffled the minds of many astronomers.
According to calculations made by the exponents of
this work it will commence to be visible at the year of
nineteen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993). This year
apparently seems to be the one year, that will usher in
many social reforms, and the commencement of the Mil-
lenium, which is referred to in the Bible. The probable
period when the Utopian dreams will commence to be
realized and manifested amongst the Humanity of this
Earth. One more question.
WHAT CAUSES THE SUN SPOTS?
Here we have the answer in the planet Vulcan. Due
to its nearness of proximity and reverse direction of ro-
tation, its magnetic vortexias disturb the magnetic vor-
texias of the Solar orb to such an extent, that let us say
as a means of expression, the Sun's atmosphere is dis-
rupted, thereby causing Sun spots. The Sun spots gen-
erally always remain near its equatorial belt, wherein lies
the orbit of Vulcan. They are generally more prominent
at the Eastern edge of the disc, gradually diminish, and
some completely disappear before reaching the Western
limb of the disc.
The planet Mercury is disturbed in its motion of
translation at this point of its orbit. This variation of
motion is caused by its close proximity to Vulcan. The
disturbing influence is due to the magnetic vortexias of
Vulcan. Another problem that modern astronomy has
not been able to clarify. Vulcan is the great disturber
of the Solar Magnetism, causing the spots to appear on
its apparent surface. The portion of the Sun observable,
is not its real body. It is the exterior light, which con-
ceals the true body, analogous to the clouds that en-
shroud the Earth. So now we have eleven ( 11) primary
bodies in our Solar System. In all probability this is the
total number of bodies in the system. We cannot con-
17
ceive, by calculations, the existence of more planets.
Eleven ( 11) seems to be one of the mysterious numbers,
in astronomical calculations. We may also include, the
number thirty-three (33), the number three hundred
and sixty-three (363), and the number twenty-six thou-
sand, one hundred and thirty-six (26,136). Solar spots
have a cycle of approximately eleven ( 11) years. Our
magnetic needle also produces a similar cycle of variation
during a period of eleven ( 11 ) years. This phenomena
is due to the balanced equilibrium of all the magnetic
vortexias of the bodies of the system. Including the mag-
netic vortexias of the fixed stars, which cause the needle
to deflect East or West of true North. Due to the Solar
Systems translation around the Zodiac, as we stated
earlier, the needle is now seeking the true North, from
its \Vesterlv deflection, and will arrive to true North
when our primary vortexia becomes neutralized by the
star Polaris, the present pole star. Strange as it may
seem, Polaris means to become neutralized. We will
now proceed to the final question.
WHERE DO OUR METEORS COME FROM?
This question has caused much speculation and the
advancement of many theories among astronomers. We
will only make an attempt at answering this curious
phenomena. Do meteors proceed from inter-stellar space?
Not to our judgment. Are they the residue of disin-
tegrated comets? Not to our judgment. Let's go back
to where we explained the existence of the invisible
satellite Lilith. If you remember we located a circle or
belt of the heavens around the Earth \vhere its magnetic
vortexias arrived at a point of neutralitr, relative to the
Sun. A belt of the heavens where light is translated into
darkness, or more accurately, invisibility. This is the
probable belt of the heavens where meteors revolve
around the Earth. The magnetic influences of comets,
that visit us periodically, produce a disturbance of the
portions of the Zodiac they pass through, affecting the
magnetism of the invisible belt, thereby causing these
18
bodies to lose their equilibrium and fall onto the Earth,
periodically as it is translated around its orbit, through
the signs where the comets disturbed the magnetic vor-
texias.
HOW ARE METEORS REPLENISHED?
They are the accumulation of dust and other matter
of the Earth that are forced into this belt by the Earth's
gravitational force of repulsion. There the matter is ac-
cumulated into bodies, awaiting the time till they lose
their equilibrium and fall back to Earth. This seems to
be a logical analysis of the source and origin of meteors.
Although it is speculation on our part. But the theory
holds true to relativity, and the law of magnetic vor-
texias. Before closing this discourse, the sole object of
this work, in which we have taken a great deal of pleas-
ure, is for the purpose of elevating the Science of Astron-
omy and help our fellow men along the path toward
higher attainment and understanding of our grand uni-
verse. No doubt, this work may bring forth criticism
as we are quite at variance with ordinarily accepted
astronomical theories and statements. But nevertheless it
will stand the criticisms, and truth will be gleaned from
this work eventually. We ask no one to believe what has
been put forth in this discourse, but put the problems to
test, and prove them in your own way. We have de-
livered to you the key. As a few last words to the dis-
course. We are evolving around the Zodiac in a spiral
motion toward the tree of wisdom in the garden around
which is coiled old Laden the dragon, whose eyes, the
two stars Alwaid and Etanin, are continually fixed
upon the delicious apples that grow on this tree, -unceas-
ingly challenging, the mortals of Mother Earth, who
may defy him and pluck one of the apples of Wisdom.
God's magnificent universe is sublime.
THE SPHINX AND THE GREAT PYRAMID, CHEOPS
OR KUFU
To do justice, relative to the discourse just presented,
we will analyze one of the mysteries of the Silent Sphinx,
19
and also one of the great Pyramid , Cheops or Kufu . W e
will commence \\"ith an astronomical cha rt, which is based
on the wisdom or astronomical knO\d edge of a civiliza-
tion that manift'sted on this ea rth . during a great age
before the Aood.
With the ker . ''"e have presented in this discou rse, in
addition to the . prope r knovvledge of ast ronomy as ex-
plained , we are able to go into the past ages and measure
them accurateh-. This chart will bear anr or all astro-
nomical tests, it may be subj ected to. It .is a revelation
of truth , absoluteh· in accord w ith the scriptures and
demonst rates the tr~th that Humanity's evolu tion on this
Earth i,; s\·mbolized in the H ea,·ens. Following w e pre-
sent this .rema rkable cha rt. ( Fr,,. rr/n1
'11t"I' Sf1
' C hor!
No . ./..)
The student should study this chart carefull y for it
contains the ke\· to M ystic Astronomy. This chart stands
to prove what -has be~n expounded in our discourse. It
is absolute!~· in accord with all accurately determined,
past historical e\·ents. A nd it also stand, to prove the
accuran of those which are not properlv recorded. T o
explain this chart, we \\"ill return to the Solar s,·stem's
translation of its orbi t, that " ·e unde rtook to explain in
the discourse. T he Solar s ,·stem makes one translation
of its orhit in exacth· twenty-six thotl';and one hundred
and thirty-six (26. 136) yea rs. Due to its magnetic vor-
texias. it describe,; an elongated or eccentric orbit, thereby
causin g the Earth',; length r,f da,· to ,.af\". Due to its
own magnetic ,·ortexias being inAurnced b,· those of the
other bodies of the un i,·er3e. the lengt h of day is now
on the inrrease and it " ·ill continue to clo so ti ll the
Solar s,-strm has arri ved to the neut ralization of the star
of ACJu.ila. th e Eagle. This point of its orbit is illus-
trated in the chart. \ Ve w ill now observe that the va ri-
a ble length of dars is also illustra ted.
A lso " ·e will observe, there are two C\Tles of civiliza-
tion ill tbt r:1ted. T he commencement. du ra tion. anrl end
of each crcle is also illust rated in thi,; cha rt. J\t the com-
menceme;lt of the first cycle, the yea r contains exactly
20
Cf/ART h'c. I/
/LL/J.JTRAT/llC THE CREATSlf>EREAL YEA,f
three hundred and sixty-three (363) days. It is then de-
celerated to three hundred and sixty (360) rla)'S. 'Vhere
it commences to accelerate to three hundred and sixty-
three days, and continues to accelerate till it has reached
its maximum of three hundred and sixty-six (366) days.
At the end of each cycle the days are equalized.
At the height of each i:ycle of civilization, the num-
ber of days per year have decreased to the minimum and
increased to the maximum. This present cycle brings us
to the maximum number of days per year.
We will now observe the point of the orientation of
the Sphinx. As therein lies the key of Mystic Astronomy.
Its orientation designates the height of both cycles of
civilization. Within its symbolism is concealed the evo-
lution of both cycles of civilization. The great silent
mystery of Egypt. Within this silent mystical monu-
ment is concealed remarkable astronomical truths. Many
astronomers, Egyptologists and other investigators have
tried to calculate the period of its construction.
This illustrated chart leads us to draw the definite
conclusion it was built at approximately fift1· thou-
sand (50,000) years ago, when a previo1;s gre;1t cycle
of civilization had reached its Zenith. This is in accord
with the motions of the Heavens. What style of monu-
ment will this civilization leave? Many of us would
like to know. Now let's proceed to the coffer in the
great Pyramid Kufu. Observe it is illustrated, directly
on the line of orientation, in the opposite point of the
heavens to the Sphinx. For the student who is not
familiar with the great Pyramid, we will locate the
coffer. In the upper part of the Pyramid is a large cham-
ber, known as the King's Chamber. Within this cham-
ber is confined a stone box, chiseled out of a block of
stone. It has the appearance of a coffin, minus the cover.
We will not deal with the symbolical mysteries concealed
within this coffer. Before we proceed, we must state
that the great Pyramid was constructed in absolute har-
mony with the motions of the heavens. To make the
point clear its measurements are equalized to astronom-
21
ical measurements. Now we will return to the coffer. It is
located in such a position that it accurately determines
the time when this civilization of ours will have reached
its Zenith, which will be at approximately two thousand
four hundred and thirty-four (2,434) years from now.
It is clearly illustrated on the chart. The scriptures men-
tion Job's Coffin. There is a spiritual and astronomical
relativity between Job's Coffin and the coffer in the great
Pyramid. It also has its symbolism and constellation of
stars in the Heavens. The constellation consists of a
group of four stars in the shape of a diamond, located
near the star, Enif, on the nose of the great white horse
Pegasus. Apparently the starry Heavens symbolize Hu-
manity's spiritual progress. We will now proceed to the
Mystic Stars of the constellation Taurus, the Bull. He
is symbolized in the starry Heavens as a ferocious bull,
charging Orion, the Mighty Hunter, the most beautiful
and magnificent constellation in the starry heavens. We
have illustrated on the chart, the constellation Taurus,
at the point of the Solar orbit where one of the two
cycles of civilization is at low ebb. Or to put it in other
words, where the cycle terminates. Our last cycle ter-
minated approximately four thousand one hundred and
fifty-eight (4, 158) years ago, when the Solar system
translated the Pleiades. This is absolutely in accord with
the story of Noah and the flood mentioned in the Scrip-
tures. There are many stories in Greek Mythology rela-
tive to this constellation of stars. For the student who
is not acquainted with this constellation, we will define
it. Taurus consists of two groups of stars, the Hyades
and Pleiades.
The group of the Hyades are: Phaola, Ambrosia, Eu-
dora, Coronis, and Phalyxo. Of the Pleiades: Alcyone,
Merope, Electra, Celeano, Taygeta, Maia, and Asterope.
According to mythology this constellation has influence
over rain and stormy weather. There is a legend that
the whole universe revolves around the star Alcyone of
the Pleiades.
In ancient Peru the people were possessed with great
22
fear at the end of every fifty-two (52) years at midnight
when the Pleiades passed <JVer the meridian. They feared
the earth was to be deluged with another flood. So ap-
parently, Humanity's destiny, spiritual and material, is
symbolized in the starry universe.
The object of presenting this part of the work, is to
illustrate the truth of a highly developed astronomical
science, by a civilization of great antiquity.
THE MYSTIC STARS OF TAURUS AND ORION
Before the completion of this work, let us deal with
the Mystic Stars of the Bull, and the mighty hunter
Orion. We must relate a story from Greek Mythology
first of all. "One day, Europa the Queen of Phoenicia
was strolling in the meadows. Jupiter, the ruler of
Mount Olympus, was fascinated with her beauty, so he
changed himself into a white bull. Europa came along,
and was much surprised at his sleekness and whiteness
of color. He appeared so peaceable, she climbed onto
his back. Suddenly he darted head-long into the Medi-
terranean and swam to !he Island of Crete and made
her his Queen." Then Europe ·was named after the beau-
tiful Queen of Phoenicia.
In the constellation of the Bull, lies the mystery of
the destiny of thirteen ( 13) European Nations or Powers.
Each has its emblem symbolized by one of the stars in
this constellation. Therein lies the mystery of the num-
ber thirteen ( 13), supposedly our fateful number. Thir-
teen ( 13) is the prominent number in American nu-
merical symbolism. There are twenty-six (26) letters
in our alphabet. Divided in half we have two thirteens
( 13's), which accurately correspond to two cycles of civ-
ilization. Each cycle equal to thirteen thousand and
sixty-eight (13 ,068) years. It is logical to draw the con-
clusion, we now possess the alphabet of a universal lan-
guage. This no doubt would appear very interesting to
the Numerologist.
Our own emblem is enshrouded in mystery. It is con-
cealed beneath the Belt of Orion the Mighty Hunter un-
23
der the guardianship of the three Kingly Stars, Min-
taka, Alnilam, Alnitak.
The most beautiful Emblem of the Heavens con-
cealed in the great Nebula, surrounded by the most beau-
tiful constellation of stars in God'~ universe. We should
be very proud of our Emblem, for it symbolizes a great
destiny for the United States of America. Permit no one
to insult or desecrate this Emblem, for it is a God-given
Emblem. Within the four quadrants of the Heavens,
symbolized by the constellations, Leo, Taurus, Aquarius,
and Scorpio, is concealed the mystical destiny of the
Hebrew Race and Religion. The equilibrators of our
civilization.
God's Magnificent Universe is Sublime.
24
S IGNS-PLA/l/ETS
TR.ANS LA TORS JCECE:PTORS
UZICAN SCIENCE
The Uzican Science is the Art of relating Mother
Earth and her Children to the corresponding vibrations
of the Stars, Sun, and Planets and other bodies of the
Heavens. Uzican is the name of a Nation that will per-
sist on the Pacific Coast, west of the Rocky Mountains
in the distant future. The center of this civilization will
be south and west of the Santa Monica, and Sierra Madre
Mountains. The great Temple dedicated to Astronomy
which will then be known as the Uzican Science, will
rise as a monument and landmark, for the following
cycle of civilization, in the beautiful City of Los Angeles.
We are grateful to Felippe De Neve, Junipero Serra,
and the Padres, also Washington, Lincoln, Woodrow
Wilson and Lafayette. For they arc the great leaders
who blazed the trail.
"Thus monstrous forms, a Heaven's nocturnal arch,
Seen by the Sage, in pomp, celestial march;
See Aries there his glittering bow unfold,
And raging Taurus toss his horns of Gold;
With bended bow, the sullen Archer lowers,
And there Aquarius comes with all his showers;
Lions, and Centaurs, Gorgons, Hydras rise,
And Gods and Heroes blaze along the skies."
A wonderful destiny for the city of Los Angeles, as
will be revealed.
"Her lovely tresses glow with starry light;
Stars ornament the bracelet on her hand ;
Her vest in ample fold, glitters with stars ;
Beneath her snowy feet they shine; her eyes
Lighten, all glorious, with the Heavenly rays,
But first the (Star) which crowns the golden sheaf."
The Uzius art may be used for the delineation of
individual births, Communities, Cities, Nations or Cycles
25
of Civilization. "Czius" is the art of delineating the
subjective influences, of the Heavenly bodies; that influ-
ence our material, moral and spiritual welfare. Based
on the Astronomical Science; which deals with the ob-
jective manifestations. Such as motion, size, '"eight, ve-
locity, mass, distance, etc. Both sciences will merge into
the Uzican Science when Urania comes to rule. We
read in St. Mark's Gospel, the twelfth (12th) chapter;
the tenth (10th) and eleventh (11th) verse. "And have
ye not read this scripture. "The stone ·which the build-
ers rejected, the same is made the head of the corner.
By the Lord had this been done, and it is wonderful in
our eyes."
In this work we will confine ourselves in tracing the
symbolism of the Heavens, relative to the birth-date of
the United States of America and the city of Los An-
geles, California.
Our first operation is to erect a chart of the Heavens
as explained in "Mystic Astronomy. Following is a dia-
gram of the primary chart of the Uzican Science. (For
referenre see Chart No. 1.)
In this Zodiac we have only eleven signs. Each con-
tains thirty-three (33) degrees, equally distributed. With
the exception of Cancer, twenty-two (22) degrees are
allotted to the Moon and eleven ( 11) degrees to Lilith.
The perfected circle of the Zodiac contains three
hundred and sixty-three (363) perfected degrees. The
true number of degrees in a circle. We omit the sign
Libra or the scales, as it is out of harmonv in this Zodiac.
The first sign Aquarius is ruled, or influ~nced powerfully
by magnetic-vortexia, from the planet Vulcan, our in-
visible planet. The eleventh (11th) planet of the solar
system. Vulcan has its orbit at approximately one mil-
lion ( 1,000,000) miles from the Sun, and makes one
complete revolution in approximately three hundred and
sixty-five (365) and one-quarter 04) days. Its year is
equal to the Earth, plus a slight acceleration. For ap-
proximately two thousand three hundred and seventy-six
(2,376) years it remains on the opposite side of the Solar
26
CHA RTAlo. I
t.JZICA!V ZOfJ/A(' C'O!VS'ISTl#C 0/".3L3°
disc, which destroys our ability of its observation. It is
now at the eastern limb of the Solar disc, and in all
probability it will be located with the telescope within
the next hundred ( 100) years. After being concealed by
the Solar disc for two thousand three hundred and sev-
enty-six (2,376) years, it then proceeds before the disc,
for a similar period of two thousand three hundred and
seventy-six (2,376) years, when it will again recede be-
hind the disc. To make it more clear, it transits the Sun
during the Aquarian age, and recedes behind the disc
during the Solar system's translation of the following
sign of the Zodiac, or Capricornus.
The next sign Pisces is ruled by, the planet Neptune.
Aries is ruled by the planet Mars. Taurus is ruled by
the planet Venus. Gemini is ruled by the planet Mer-
cury. The last twenty-two (22) degrees of Cancer are
ruled by the Moon. The fir5t eleven ( 11) are ruled by
our invisible satellite Lilith. It has special influence over
the Asselius and Praespe which is approximately six (6)
degrees of Leo in the Astrological Zodiac. This is the
portion of the heavens where life proceeds from the in-
visible to material manifestation or activity on Earth. It
also has special power of translating the invisible influ-
ences of Pluto and distributing it amongst the eleven
( 11) signs. Its orbit is approximately twenty-six thousand
one hundred and thirty-six (26,136) miles from the
Earth, and makes a revolution or complete translation of
its orbit in approximately eleven ( 11) days.
The sign Leo is ruled by the Sun.
Virgo is ruled by Astraea. Astraea represents the
divided group of small planets that revolve in orbits, be-
tween the orbit of Mars and the orbit of Jupiter.
The next sign, Scorpio, is ruled by the planet Pluto.
Mythologically he is the invisible ruler of the under-
world.
Sagittarius is ruled by the planet Jupiter, and Capri-
cornus is ruled by the planet Saturn.
Uranus has no special sign of rulership. It is the
ruler of the heavens. According to the law of magnetic
27
vortexia, its influences are most receptive to the sign of
the Zodiac it is being translated. It has no special rule
in Aquarius. It has the peculiar quality of translating
the influences of the stars of the heavens to the sign that
the solar system transits, during its translation of the
Zodiac. This planet has chief rule over the Uzican
Science, and Mystic Astronomy. At present it generates
a powerful magnetic-vortexia from the last degree of
Pisces and the Iirst degree of Taurus. Astrologically
speaking, its power of vortexia from Taurus is due to
its present transit of that sign . The last degree of Pisces
is the Solar System's present place of the Zodiac through
which it is being translated, therefore we receive a pow-
erful vortexia from Altair of the Eagle, Aquilla.
The Solar Sy~tem will shortly enter the Aquarian
Sign, which signalizes our entrance to the new age. The
Utopian Age. We will proceed by presenting another
chart, to illustrate the similarities and variations of the
Astrological Chart and the Uzican Chart. (For refer-
en ce see Chart No. 2.)
This chart is the basis of the Astrological Science, as
it is now being practiced.
Mars is the ruler of the first sign, or Aries, because
this Zodiac is based on the annular translation of the
Earth around the Sun. The first degree of Aries is de-
termined by the point of intersection of the ecliptic, the
Sun's apparent path around the Heavens, annually, and
the celestial equator. The commencement relative to the
Earth is at the horizon.
The Uzican Zodiac commences at the present place
of the Solar System's center of magnetic vortexia, which
is to be exact thirty-two (32) degress and twelve ( 12)
minutes of Pisces, or which will be the first degree of
Aquarius at the year of nineteen hundred and ninety-
three ( 1993) A. D . and the commencement relative to
the Earth is directly over-head , on the Zenith or Mid-
Heaven.
The next sign, Taurus, is ruled by the planet Venus.
Gemini is ruled by Mercury. Cancer is ruled by the
28
Ch'ART~.2
ltll/.JTRATIMO/AST~o1oe1cA1 Z~/AC
Moon. Leo is ruled by the Sun. Virgo is ruled by the
planet Mercury. Libra is ruled by the planet Venus.
Scorpio is ruled by the planet Mars, but having the co-
rulership of the planet Pluto. Sagittarius is ruled by
Jupiter. Capricorn and Aquarius are ruled by Saturn,
and having the co-rulership of Uranus in the sign
Aquarius. Pisces is ruled by Jupiter, having the co-ruler-
ship of Neptune.
The distribution of the signs are similar, with the
exception that Libra is omitted in the Uzican Zodiac.
Some of the Planets have &imilar rulership, with some
variations. Each of the planets have: ru~ership over two
signs, with co-rulers in three signs, except Cancer and
Leo, ruled by the Moon and Sun.
In the Uzican Zodiac, each planet is assigned ruler-
ship over one sign, with the exception of Cancer, and its
last twenty-two (22) degrees are ruled by the Moon,
and the first eleven ( 11) degrees are assigned to the in-
visible satellite (Lilith).
In the Uzican Zodiac, the degrees of the circle of
three hundred and sixty-three (363) degrees is equally
distributed among the eleven signs. Here we have quite
a variation. We will explain the reason for the distribu-
tion in this proper manner later.
One important point the student should remember:
the Uzican Zodiac commences at the point of the heav-
ens, where the Solar System is located, during its trans-
lation of the great sidereal Zodiac, and it is always situ-
ated on the Mid-Heaven, or Zenith. This is a radical
departure from the Astrological Zodiac, which com-
mences at the ascendant, and is measured from the inter-
section of the ecliptic or vernal equinox.
We will next present the chart of a great sidereal
year. (For reference see Chart No. 4, Mystic Astron-
omy.}
Here we present a most remarkable astronomical
chart. The key is founded in the mysteries of the Silent
Sphinx at Gaza, Egypt. Here we have the key of meas-
uring the Heavens, by which we determine past ages,
29
and ages to come. The student should study this chart
very carefully, for here ;ire the fundamentals of the
Uzican Science. It is nece;san· for the student to fa-
miliarize himsdf with the co~stellations of the stars,
which mar he procured from mo:;t astronomical books.
In this chart we present rhe Zodiac of a great sidereal
year, con:;isting of t\Yenty-six thousand one hundred and
thirty-six (26,136) perfected years.
All the motion:; of the Heavens are regulated or meas-
ured, primarily from the ' tar Regulus.'. the Regulator.
We have illustrated both crcles of ciYilization, which
commence \\·hen the dar:; <'{ the 1
·ear are equalized, at
three hundred and sixtr-three (J63') dars. The first
c1•cle decreases the number of da1·s, till ci1·ilization has
r~ached the peak or maximum . then decreases the num-
ber of day·s till the!· are ag:1in on the balance. This point
of the Heavens designates :.!1e encl of the first crcle. The
last cvcle terminated at thr time of the nood, or the
Deluge ·which is mentioned in the Scriptures, at the time
of Noah and thr Ark. T!1is happrned \\·hen the Solar
System was translating in its orbit past the MYstic Stars
of Taurus, the Hyades and Pleiades, designated by the
Great Star, Aldebaran, situated in one of the four cor-
ners of the heavens, which j,; referred to in the Scriptures.
The second cn:le commences at this point of the
heavens, and the da1·s are accellerated to thrre hundred
and sixt1·-six ( 366). days per year. This is the peak or
maximum of the ,;econd cffle, \rhich 11·e are no1r passing
through. The Solar Sy·stem arrives at that point of the
Zodiac at the 1·ear of four thousand , four hundred and
twenty·-seven (+..+27) A. D. Then this cycle must pass
awa1• when the da1·s ban' decel erated to three huncl red
and .sixty-three 063) day-s. or the point of equilibrium.
Each c1-cle of civilization consist~ of thirteen thousanrl
and six.tv-eight ( 13.068) !'ears. There is a small varia-
tion making it a fraction more than thirteen thousand and
sixty-eight .(13.068) years. caused bv the Earth's motion
of tipping over towards the Sun, which is three ( 3) de-
grees per great siJereal !·ea r.
30
We will explain some of the mystery that surrounds
the Sphinx and the Great Pyramid later on.
We read in St. John's Revelations, the Apocalypse.
The twenty-first (21st) chapter and the first and second
verse.
"And I saw a new Heaven and a new Earth. For
the first Heaven and the first Earth, was gone, and the
sea is now no more. And I, John, saw the Holy City,
the new Jerusalem, coming down out of Heaven from
God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." This
scriptural passage refers to the commencement of the next
cycle which we have just explained.
We have illustrated in this chart the equilibrium of
three hundred and sixty-three (363) degrees in a per-
fected circle. We divide this circle of three hundred and
sixty-three (363) degrees by eleven ( 11), which will
give an equal allotment of degrees to each sign, or thirty-
three (33) degrees per sign. A perfected circle consist-
ing of eleven ( 11) signs, containing thirty-three (33)
degrees.
When Jesus the man of Galilee was about eleven
years old he commenced to deliver his beautiful doctrine,
and was crucified when thirty-three years old. Here we
have concealed the mystery of Christianity and the thirty-
three (33) degrees of Masonry, in perfect harmony with
the stellar script.
"The Saviour youth the royal pair confess. And with
heav'd hands, their daughter's bridegroom bless."
We will proceed to the next chart.
This chart is to illustrate a magnetic vortexia. (For
reference see Chart No. 1, Mystic Astronomy.)
We will here define a vortexia. A vortexia is the
magnetic influence exerted on a body from a distant body
of the Heavens. The primary vortexia of the Earth pro-
ceeds from the pole star Polaris. The magnetic currents
proceed from the North direction and recede into the
South direction. This is caused primarily, by our spiral
motion toward the upper Heavens. These magnetic vor-
texias, which influence all the bodies of the universe, are
31
generally known as the force of Gravitation ''"hich keeps
the bodies in their marvelous uniformity of motion. Mag-
netic vortexias influence the earth from all conceivable
directions.
We will next present a chart, of the three principal
vortexias, that influence the Earth from the Zodiac. The
student must bear in mind that the planets and other
bodies of the solar system, distribute the influences from
inter-stellar space. As a means of illustration , \H may
put it in this manner: the bodies of the solar system are
the minute hand of the clock, and the stars the hour
hand. They are the time markers along the path. One
designates the inner Zodiac, and the other the outer
Zodiac. The inner Zodiac represents the planets revolv-
ing around the Sun from West to East, and the outer
Zodiac represents the Solar System's revolution, around
the great sidereal Zodiac from East to West. This is
the reason for the erection of double rows of Sphinxes
that led up to the great temples of ancient Egypt, of
which ruins still remain . We will present our next chart.
(For referf/lre Se!' Chart No. 5.)
Here we have illustrated the three principal vortexias
that influence the Earth from the Zodiac. We name them
the equatorial vortexias, as their inAuences are confined
within the equatorial belt. The center of the vortexia of
equilibrium extends from the first degree of Capricornus,
having a declination of twenty-two (22) degrees South;
to sixteen and one-half ( 16Yi) degrees of Gemini, hav-
ing a declination of twenty-two ( 22) degrees North.
The equivalent 0f the Astrological, twenty-two ( 22) de-
grees of Capricorn and twenty-two (22) degrees of
Cancer.
The \'Ortexia of acceleration and decelrration ex-
tends from the Jlrst degree of Taurus to sixteen and one-
half ( 16Yi) degrees of Scorpio.
The vortexia of Regulation extends from the first
degree of Pisces to sixteen and one-half ( 16Yi) degrees
of Leo.
The astrologi.:al equivalents are: The vortexia of
32
LONG :(l"?>t,
DE"C 22" S .
"°" o•
JI. o,.-__,__ a;; o•
LON<; 22° ~
DE:c . 22•...i .
CASTOR.® @ l'OL L//X
/;Q//Al/ZER.5
Cf!Al?T #o.S
Efl!ATOl?IAL //ORTEX /AS BASE!J OJV
/"Ot.11? CAl?/Jl/VAL STARS
Cf!Alr'T#o. 6
CO/'IPARISOIY U71CA#AIVtJASTROLOtJIC-
AL ZOO/ACS
equilibrium extends from the twenty-second (22nd) de-
gree of Capricorn to the twenty-second (22nd) degree of
Cancer. The vortexia of acceleration and deceleration
extends from the eighth (8th) .degree of Gemini to the
eighth (8th) degree of Sagittarius. The vortexia of regu-
lation extends from seventeen and one-half ( 17Yi) de-
gress of Pisces to seventeen and one-half ( 17Yi) degrees
of Virgo. This chart should be studied very carefully.
No doubt it will be confusing at first.
We have at the extremeties of the vortexias of ac-
celeration and deceleration, the four cardinal stars of
the Heavens, namely Altair of Aquilla, Antares of Scor-
pio, Regulus of Leo and Aldebaran of Taurus. Altair in
the eastern angle, Antares in the southern angle, Regulus
in the western angle on the ecliptic, and Aldebaran on
the northern angle of the Heavens. These three vor-
texias or six points of the Heavens are the principal points
of receiving the magnetism from inter-stellar space, along
the equatorial belt.
We will next illustrate a chart showing the relation-
ship of the Uzican Zodiac to the Astrological Zodiac.
(For reference see Chart No. 6.)
Here we have the eleven ( 11) proper signs equally
distributed. Each sign contains thirty-three (33) degrees.
The upper vertical line locates the position of the Solar
System, and the commencement of the Uzican Zodiac.
It is equivalent ro the first degree of Aries of the Astro-
logical Zodiac, and the twenty-first (21st) day of March
on the calendar. No degree of Aries is equivalent to the
first (!st) degree of Taurus on the Astrological Zodiac,
and the twenty-ninth (29th) day of April on the cal-
endar. No degree of Taurus is equivalent to two (2)
degrees of Gemini of the Astrological Zodiac, and May
twenty-third {23rd) on the calendar, and the rest of the
signs are illustrated in similar rotation.
We have the circle of three hundred and sixty (360)
degrees, equalized to three hundred and sixty-three (363)
degrees of the Uzican Zodiac. Before we proceed to the
33
next chart, we will define the subjective influences of
the three principal equatorial vortexias.
First we will deal with the vortexia of acceleration
and deceleration. By observing the chart we find the star
Aldebaran and the M ystic Pleiades are on the north an-
gle. It signifies the overcoming of the material, and
awakening of the spiritual; death to the material, and
spiritual life or resurrection. In the opposite angle of
this vortexia we have the fiery red star Antares. It is in
the southern angle and signifies physical death.
In the eastern and western angles of the vortexia of
regulation, we have the beautiful star Altair of the Eagle,
Aquilla and Re~ulus of the Lion. They regulate the
spiritual and physical activities, that is the acceleration
and deceleration. The vortexias of equilibrium serves the
purpose of balancing the physical and spiritual.
Another important vortexia we have not illustrated,
is the first ( Ist) degree of Cancer. It is ruled over by
the invisible satellite Lilith. This degree of the Heavens
has to do with the incoming life or birth. And the
Pleiades, influences the spiritual world after physical
death. In the old Egyptian Zodiacs the Cancer sign is
symbolized with a Scarab or Beetle, signifying the dark,
invisible, or lower world of physical matter. In an ancient
Hindu Zodiac it is symbolized by two asses, and we read
in St. Matthew's Gospel, the twenty-first (21st) chap-
ter and the second (2nd) verse : "Go ye into the vil-
lage that is over against you, and immediately, you shall
find an ass tied and a colt with her; loose them and bring
them to me."
In this part of the Heavens, where the two stars,
known to the astronomers as the two asses we also have
the beautiful cluster, called , Praespe, or the manger, and
often called the Bee Hive. It may be seen by people who
have keen vision and it is a very beautiful telescopic
object.
We will proceed to our next chart, which is the Birth
Chart of the United States of America. (For reference
34
Ch'ARTAlo. 7
8/.RTlllJATE 0/1/.!Et/IVITEtJ STATES
0/AIYE./f'ICA ASTA'OL()t/tAL
CHART #o. 8
fi/RT/fLJA7E ()/' t/#ITEIJ.STATE.!OFANF~leA
UZI CA IV ..JllJFRrAL
see Chart No. 7.) First the Astrological chart, and then
the Uzican chart.
We have placed the planet Pluto near the Mid-
Heaven. We are not positive as to its exact position, but
feel quite sure it is in a close conjunction with the Moon.
It at least was somewhere in this part of the Zodiac at
the birth of the U. S. A.
Here we have the powerful vortexia of acceleration
rising. Uranus is conjoined with the north cardinal star
Aldebaran on the Ascendant, and the fiery red star
Antares on the decelerating side of the vortexia, in the
southern cardinal angle, on the descendant. This clearly
indicates a remarkable destiny. It indicates many serious
and dangerous obstacles to overcome. Eventually our
spiritual development soars to the very heights of the
Heavens, symbolized by the planet Uranus and the
Mystic Pleiades on the Ascendant.
The Sun is directly in the vortexia of equilibrium.
This indicates great leadership, which is part of our
destiny. We read in St. John's Revelations, the nine-
teenth (19th) chapter, the eleventh ( 11th) verse: "And
I saw Heaven opened and behold a white horse; and he
that sat upon him was called faithful and true, and with
justice doth he judge and fight." Twelfth (12th) verse,
"And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head
were manv diadems, and he had a name written, which
no man know et h but himself. Thirteenth (13th)
verse. "And he was clothed with a garment sprinkled
with blood, and his name is called the Word of God."
Fourteenth (14th) verse. "And the armies in Heaven
followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white
and clean." Fifteenth (15th) verse. "And out of his
mouth proceedeth a sharp two-edged sword; that with it
he may strike the nations. And he shall rule them with a
rod of iron." Sixteenth (16th) verse. "And he hath on
his garment, and in his thigh written: King of Kings,
and Lord of Lords." Such is our destiny.
We will proceed to our next chart. (For reference
see Chart No. 8.)
35
We read in St. John's Revelations, the twelfth
(12th) chapter, first (1st) verse: "And a great and won-
derful sign appeared in Heaven: A woman clothed with
the Sun, and the Moon under her feet, and on her head
a crown of twelve ( 12) stars. And being with child, she
cried travailing in birth, and was in pain to be delivered.
And there was seen another sign in Heaven, and behold
a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns,
and on his head seven diadems; and his tail drew the
third part of the stars, of Heaven, and cast them to the
Earth : and the dragon stood before the woman who was
ready to be delivered: that when she should be delivered.
he might devour her son. And she brought forth a man
child, who was to rule all nations, with an iron rod: and
her son was taken up !o God and his throne." And we
read in the second chapter from the twenty-sixth verse:
"And he that shall over-come, and keepeth my works
unto the end, I will give him power over the nations:
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and as the
vessel of a potter they shall be broken."
We will proceed to erect a most remarkable chart.
(F()r refaenre su Chart No . 9.)
The birthdate of the city of Los Ang:eles, California,
United States of America. On Saturday, January Ninth
(9th), Eighteen hundred and forty-seven (Jan. 9th,
1847), was fought the last and most bra\'e battle between
the Californians and the Americans. The battle of San
Pasqual. The Californians were under the command of
the fine and brave General Andres Pico. The Americans
were under the command of equally as fine and brave a
commander, General Stephen Kearny, with his under-
officers, Captain Gillespie and Captain Freemont. This
gallant battle terminated the conflict between Mexico
~nd the United States for possession of the State of
California. The following morning, which was Sunday,
January Tenth (10th) , Captain Freemont marched his
troops into the little Puebla of Los Angeles, the home
of the Queen and her Angels, and hoisted to the breezes
of the Heavens, at the Noon hour, the most beautiful
36
CllA;fT/Yo. 9
,8/RTh'/JATE Or 10.SA///C/iES, C-111/.
AST,f'OLOCl<"AL
@ANTARES
:i.o
PLEMD£S
Ch'ART !Vo.10
81RTll£JATE OF LOSA/v'CELES. CAI/£
(/ZIC A Al S ILJE REAL
emblem symbolized in the Starry Heavens, the emblem
of the United States of America.
"Now behold
The glittering maze of Bernice's hair;
Forty the stars, but such as seem to kiss,
The flowing tresses with a lambent fire,
Four to the telescope alone are seen."
We will first illustrate the astrological chart.
We will call attention to the principal remarkable
planetary positions at this time, as we will refer to this
chart and the Uzican chart which we present next, later.
(For reference see Chart No. 10.) The Sun is in the
exact opposite point of the Heavens to the birth chart
of the U. S. A.
The Moon is on the descendant, at the first degree
of Scorpio. Jupiter and Mars are in opposition. Jupiter
is conjoined to the planet Uranus of the birth chart of
the U. S. A., and Mars is opposing.
Our next chart is the Uzican.
We must call the student's attention to the fact,
we have in this chart two Zodiacs, as we explained
earlier. The inner Zodiac, represented by the Sun and
Planets. The outer Zodiac attuned to to the vortexias
of the great sidereal Zodiac, which is influenced by the
stars of the Heavens. The former has to do with mate-
rial activity, and the latter with Spiritual attainment.
We will leave these charts for the time being, and recede
into the far distant past. We will analyze some of the
mysteries of two monuments, that are enshrouded in the
great silence of Egypt, the Lotus of the Nile. We will
delve into the astronomy of a great civilization of
antiquity.
We attune to one of the mystical stars of the
Heavens, the magnetic south pole star, of the Pyramid,
the Ark of the Covenant, the beautiful star Canopus and
pass into the silence of the Great Pyramid Cheops or
Kufu, and the master key, the Sphinx. We have arrived
near Gaza, Egypt, west of the river Nile. We are over-
37
whelmed with a great silence, and we are stricken with
the mysteries concealed before us, in the desert sands.
We gaze around and see two more pyramids. We are
almost stricken speechless. We talk in whispers and
learn that these are the pyramids Kafra and Menkaura,
The largest pyramid fascinates us the most.
Darkness overtakes us, a mystic force compels us to
look upwards into the splendor of the Heavens. A bril-
liant light comes down to meet us, and behold the great
Pyramid stands out like a diamond. We marvel at the
beauty of such a magnificent star.
A voice from out of the stillness whispers to us.
"This is the morning star that guided the three wise
men from the East." The Pyramid glitters with such
brilliancy; it reflects back upon the Heavens, and behold
we vision a Queenly apparition with this magnificent star
in her left hand. Again a voice from the stillness whis-
pers to us: "This is the Goddess Astraea, the Virgin."
This Queen will return to Mother Earth during the
Golden Age." Our spirit seems to leave us, for we desire
to caress this beautiful Queen. The apparition disap-
pears, and we realize we are only mortal beings. So now,
dear student, we will proceed to analyze the Pyramid.
Here we present the first operation. (For reference
see Chart No. 11.)
We draw a circle four inches in diameter. Square
the circle into quadrants. Divide the circle into three
angles of one hundred and twenty ( 120) degrees. Then
we place the star Arcturus at the top of the vertical line,
on the circle. Then we place Denebola, on the right
angle, and Spica, on the left angle. We now have a
Pyramid. These stars are placed in these angles, because
it is their approximate relation on the celestial sphere.
These three stars form a triangle, and are readily ob-
served on the Meridian during the spring months.
Denebola is a bright star of the first magnitude, in
the brush of the lion's tail, and may be distinguished by
its great brilliancy. It comes to the Meridian about
one hour and fort~·-one minutes after Regulus, the great
38
C.llARTh'o. //
THE EJl'OL//T/()# O/T/IE.PYRAHILJ eNE0/5
SPICA
C#AR7 Alo.IZ
T.llE EJ/OLI/TIO# (),r T.llE .PJ'4'1flll/JClll'Ol'S
regulator, on the heart of the lion, on the third day of
May. Deneobla is about thirty-five (35) degrees and
thirty (30) minutes west of Arcturus, and about the
same distance northwest of Spica, in the hand of the
Virgin. Forming an equilateral triangle. It also forms a
similar triangle, with Arcturus and Cor Caroli in Cannes
Venatici. We will explain this angle as we proceed with
the analysis of the Pyramid. These four stars form a
geometrical figure of a rhombus, generally called the
diamond of Virgo.
Arcturus is a star of the first magnitude, situated
near the left knee of the constellation, Bootes, the bear-
driver, twenty-six (26) degrees southeast of Cor Caroli.
Arcturus is one of our nearest stars. Its magnetic vor-
texia, which we explained previously, was relayed into an
ingenious electrical device, and utilized to throw the
master switch, that controlled the illumination at the
World's Fair in Chicago, Illinois, in the year nineteen
hundred and thirty-three (1933) A. D. Arcturus is of
the constellation Bootes. This constellation comes to the
Meridian at about the ninth (9th) of June. Spica Vir-
ginis is in the constellation of Virgo, or the Virgin. It
is on the ear of corn the Virgin holds in her left hand,
and the most brilliant star in this constellation.
Spica is easily located by its solitary splendor, there
being no visible star near it, except one of the fourth
magnitude, situated about one degree below it on the
left. Spica lies in the Moon's path, and approximately
two degrees below the Earth's orbit. It comes to the
Meridian about nine o'clock on the twenty-eighth day of
May.
We will now proceed to our next operation of analysis
of the Pyramid. (For reference see Chart No. 12.)
We place the compass point at the semi-diameter of
Spica and Denebola and scribe a circle that intersects the
horizontal diameter and circumference of the primary
circle. Draw the two angular lines down to meet at the
intersection of the vertical and secondary circle. That is
the location of Cor Caroli. Now we have two Pyramids,
39
one upright and one inverted, forming a rhombus, or the
diamond of Virgo. Car Caroli is in the constellation of
Cannes Venatici, the hunting dogs of the Bear Drive r.
Often called Charles Heart, after Sir Charlrs Scarbor-
ough, in memory of King Charles the First. It is a star
of the third magnitude, in the neck of Chara, the south-
ern hound, and comes to the meridian about the twentieth
(20th) day of M ay.
We now have located and described the four primary
stars, on which we base the evolution of the Pyramid .
All the other P yramids, of which there are approxi-
mately seventy-five (75) in Egypt, have their origin in
this group of stars, all built at different periods of civili-
zation, based on the motions of the Heavens.
We will proceed to the next operation. (/· (Jr referen ce
see Charts N o. 13 and 15.)
We square off from Arcturus to Car Caroli. Then
complete our vertical line from Spica to Denebola. Then
an angular line from the right corner of the rectangle at
Arcturus to the circumference of the circle at Spica, to
meet the center vertical. Then we turn our drawing side-
wise and bring Denebola to the base. Denebola is referred
to in the Scriptures as J acob's Well. Then we extend the
base line from Denebola to Cor Caroli \'ertical, to equal
the distance from Denebola to Arcturus Hrtical. The
object for so doing is to complete our next P~-ramid .
\Ve complete the Pyramid by drawing an angular line
from this point to the intersection of the circumference
of the circle and the vertical line at Spica. '.\O\\' we have
three Pvramids.
Our. next operation is to locate the base line of this
P yramid. We place the compass at the semi-diameter of
Spica and Denebola and scribe one more circle. Then we
draw vertical lines at the circumference of all the circles.
\Ve square off from Spica to the intersection of this circle
and center horizontal line. Then down to Denebola and
up on the right side to the intersection of this same circle
and center horizontal, and back to Spica. This gives us
a perfect square.
40
C#ARTA'0.13
ILLIJ.STRAT/OIV O/"TllEEJIOL UTIOJVOFTllE
PYl?Alflb CJIEO,P.J, 8AJ'EL> 0/1 T#£
/'IOT/0/YS O/" T/fE JIEA J/E#S
CON.$ rA Ut:' T/ON C'NA.1'14'1~.S "4~.e Ol'f/ rT, ~
We repeat the operation from Spica to the first verti-
cal line and center horizontal, down to Denebola and up
to the first vertical and horizontal and back to Spica. We
place the compass at the intersection of the north slope
and center horizontal line and scribe an arc at the lower
right corner. We repeat the operation on the opposite
lower left side by placing the compass at the intersection
of the diamond and center horizontal line to the inter-
section of the two arcs and outside verticals. This gives
us the approximate base line. We proceed to locate the
chambers and passages. Due to the translation of the
Solar System around the Sidereal Zodiac, and the Earth's
magnetic center being displaced, and its inclination of
three (3} degrees in a great Sidereal Year, we shift the
true center of the Pyramid one and one-half ( 1Yi} de-
grees. This procedure is the most important in the Pyra-
mid. Its object is to locate properly the King's Chamber,
so we draw a vertical line of one and one-half ( 1Yi)
degrees to the left of the primary vertical. We exagge-
rate this operation, so we may illustrate the chamber.
The line extending from Arcturus at the north slope to
Denebola is the inclined passage. We evolved this line
at the commencement of the analysis. So we next locate
the rising angular line that determines the grand gallery
to the ante-chamber. We draw this line from the inter-
section of the base line and inclined passage to the sub-
terranean chamber up to the center vertical just above the
center horizontal to the entrance of the ante-chamber.
We next draw a line from Cor Caroli to the ba~e line
on the lower right vertical. This gives us the entrance
to the grand gallery. Also the passage to the Queen's
Chamber, and its ceiling or roof, which is directly on the
center vertical line. Then draw a line from Cor Caroli
to a point on the right vertical up from Arcturus two-
thirds (2/ 3) of the distance from Arcturus to the base
line. This gives us the ceiling of the King's Chamber,
which is located on the magnetic center of the Pyramid.
Connecting the King's Chamber and the grand gallery is
placed the ante-chamber. Finally we locate the grotto
+1
above the intersection of the base line and the lmHr right
line of the square, and the subterranean chamber, at
Denebola or J acob's \Veil , between the Yertical center
line and the magnetic center line.
lt should be clearly understood here is deri\·ed the
origin of Jacob's Well. lt has its spiritual s1mbolism in
the star Denebola. This was the underl1·ing purpose for
changing the base line early in this analy,is.
Now we ,,.,·ill illustrate the most important mystery
of the Pyramid. That is to locate the equato r and the
plane of the ecliptic and locate two of the important
stars of the constellation of Virgo. \Ne draw a line from
the lower left corner at the intersection of Denebola's
horizontal line, or the floor level of the subterranean
chamber, or the south slope line of the Pyramid to the
intersection of the circumference of the oute r circle and
the horizontal line of Spica, on the upper right side. This
is the approximate plane of the equator.
Another point to be clearly remembered is the equator
or stars in this portion of the heavens recede dm,·nwards
in the Heavens when the Solar System translates its
orbit through the Aquarian sign. Herein lies one of the
fundamental secrets or mysteries of the P1·ra111id.
Next we draw a line to illustrate the intersection of
the equator and ecliptic.
Then we locate the star Gamma on the Virgin's left
side. It is direct!~· over the top of the King's Chamber
and less than one degree from the equator. This is the
most essential star relative to determining: the entrance to
the Aquarian Age. Gamma is a binary-star of a >vhite
and yellow color. We locate the star Z eta directly on
the equator on the north slope of the Pnamid . This sta r
is on the right thigh of the Virgin. This <tar symbolizes
high ideals, religion, and social justice. Analogous to the
balancing of the scales. The star Gamma symbolizes the
highest of Spiritual Attainment. It indicates the elevation
of womanhood to the ultimate heights. l\1en will become
super-men during the Aquarian Age, and women will be
on an equal basis with men. These two sta rs symbolize
42
ILLllSTltltTION OF THE llSTRONOMIC:AL
£ OLV~O -7111E COIVSTCLLlfTIONS
l FO • !IND SHOllL'D NOT 8E CONl'l/SEI)
'Wl.,H THE PYRll"'11D l"RoP/i"lf
CllA;('T A'o. / .tj.
.STAI( 015PLAC£MCNT TO RIQl<T
TN/$ C#MT DEVElOPEO IV.JS /'J,O.
; COA. - C(),q,DJ.J ~ r / / / [ / / ..
I
/'1/LES SOVTHW~ST F!;_<?_~- GllZA E<;YPT tlllSEO ON TllE l"fOT/CWLQF - - --
TliE 17£AVENS. THIS CHl/.fT OcVFLOPED l >'JSA.0 . ccwsr CHAl'f8F/,><;-, ,,.,, r , rn
/'fAt.i/IETIC OIMEN.SION.S
/14•AIV HE16HT ¥a"/.&T.
,.,IAN $LOPES S'' • S-1 '+
/N'CLINCO JQif.S~...I .zc..16' •
N61f'#'r0#" O"'~-.,,. ,,.~.,..~..., 'll'· ~f:,
AC.eElfGE l.J. Ob8
,,_,./;'Ari,,,,."' ,~~ ... '"' #;J fl/ft
1)1..lllLACl"flll//fT l ... !J.r /d'#-M'IC'JI.
l0tsl'L.4C "~r.vr 'f't21-tf.D II .a/CJ
S•J!•(NA"""' •aLOW •tt•i' #aFT.
l(t"f'et. C"·V18U Afo"I IUI' Jl#OFT
"'-'9C.tC~1'4 . TO fl(llW.. 1'CH~flll. 1142.
7JAS~ 74'<;JullN.I C*NAl"f (,l,2.S"FT
;161<il'IT °" .f'Mlf'$ c.......l'fl1.IFT
rlE'l<iHT°"'~ll"'N$<'JVAl'f. l.O.IFT
CtllC'l.ILAAl PLlfrFoltM 1•.s-1.,..FT
AL.ltTFO<lfl,,.., TO ,tJ,PCJ( 1 .>. ,:.Q J .,, ~
M.:Alt/ SoCl(ET '3.AS" 71'~ /rT. --
L 0Cl4TIO/\I O~ S TAil S
$,.ICl4 IN VtlP•IN.S L . HAND
Z.AVI JAV"' ON I. , WING
PoR.IMofr\ O~ GtSl.OLE
ZA.M1J\ ON t1EAllT
D£.L TA ON ,il. S10C
l/INDIMlf1'Rll( O"V IF"lllD
P"fl..M s.('"4NCN #IV ~. l.J'N'°'
!:tlQ.M-" ON (Hf.ST
Z.S:TA 0~ A.ICi-HT THl(i.M
I,9l'P1'ox1MArE .1.. ve1r, 0111 o.&
!ioT"i'\R. !> IN PYltAM.10
D6NEBoLA ac1..ow Ar
Z.AVIJAVA. 0~ BAS.E LINE
l/INNM"tTlf.1 • •T•NE 41LOC~
SIGMA n.oo• oi: ovrun CH~ .
DEL"TA ""T ENT~ANC'L' ~
QlfANO 'il' ... L.LC'!L
ZAIV'A Fl...00,lf .l..£r11... ~
~INOS CH...N'1C~
~/..,Al ow t;.IV/.1..£ O"
lf'"4'dS CkAA#l'..f
~C/lf VlllT•#'O~ '°'.(·
~,1lllC,A7~,/f""f
.::i1A""~ D•.s•~"'C IE ,._.£..,T
VP wAA.' JJ :IJ,~4c
_
"-""'----
the destiny of the United States of America, particularly
the City of Los Angeles, California.
We read in St. John's Revelations, the eighth (8th)
chapter, the tenth (10th) verse: "And the third angel
sounded the trumpet and a great star fell from Heaven,
burning as it were a torch, and it fell upon the third part
of the rivers, and upon the fountains of the waters; and
the name of the star is called Wormwood; and many men
died of the waters, because they were made bitter."
This passage refers to Columbia, the Gem of the
Ocean. The Uzican Empire, west of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Wormwood is symbolically the name of the great
temple of the Uzican Empire, in honor of one of the
great American Presidents, Woodrow Wilson.
This may sound strange and far fetched, but never-
theless, this will be some of the history of the Uzican
Empire, under the Dominion of Columbia. The country
east of the Rocky Mountains will be under the Dominion
of Uncle Sam, and both co-operating for a common des-
tiny under the great American Emblem, the Stars and
Stripes.
We will proceed with the analysis of the Pyramid.
(For reference see Chart No. 14.)
We shift the chart again, and bring Arcturus to the
base, and behold we have the Pyramid perfected, laying
four-square on its base. Here we have the key to solving
one of the fundamental mysteries of the Great Pyramid
Cheops.
We will draw another chart, and locate the stars
once more.
On this chart is located the approximate position of
the principal stars of the constellation Virgo. The King's
Chamber is symbolized by the star Gamma, and the
Queen's Chamber by the star Delta.
The parallels of declination are illustrated from
twenty (20) degrees North declination to ten ( 10)
degrees South declination.
To refresh the student's memory, we must state
agam, as the Solar System translates the Aquarian sign,
43
the stars in this constellation recede to the lower Heavens.
This motion of the Solar System causes the plane of the
equator to rise or recede along the ecliptic and all the
stars in this constellation rise or recede in the Southern
Heavens.
Now observe the plane of the equator from the upper
left corner of the rectangle, to the intersection of the first
horizontal line above the base line and the second vertical
line from the right, at the lower right corner. It does
not quite reach the intersection. At the year of nine-
teen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) it will have come
directly over these intersecting points, and the line will
be at the very edge of the ventilator shaft to the King's
Chamber and the star Gamma, the designator of the
King's Chamber, will be directly on the equator or enter-
ing the King's Chamber. Herein lies the mystery of the
entrance to the Aquarian Age. The supposedly ventilator
shafts to the King's Chamber are symbolical of astronom-
ical measurements, which also applies to all the rest of
the Pyramid's chambers and passages.
As the equator recedes along the ecliptic for a period
of two thousand, three hundred and seventy-six years
(2,376) years, the star Gamma will have come to the
ceiling of the King's Chamber, terminating this cycle of
civilization, and the spiritual mysteries of the coffer in
the King's Chamber will be revealed.
This is the resurrection referred to in St. John's
Revelations, the twenty-first (21st) chapter, the first
( !st) verse: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth.
For the first heaven and first earth was gone, and the sea
is now no more. And I, John saw the holy city, the new
Jerusalem, corning down out of heaven from God, pre-
pared as a bride adorned for her husband."
Next observe at the year four thousand, four hundred
and twenty-seven (4,427) the equator and ecliptic inter-
sect directly on the vertical line of the Pyramid, symbol-
izing the entrance to the Queen's Chamber, or the resur-
rection, which is analogous to the scriptural passage just
referred to: "and I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem,
coming down out of Heaven from God, prepared as a
bride adorned for her husband."
The Queen's Chamber is designated on this chart by
the beautiful star Delta on the Queen's right side. Do
not confuse this chart with the previous one. On the
previous chart the Queen's Chamber is designated by the
star Sigma on the center of the Queen's breast.
The former chart is symbolical of earthly manifesta-
tions, attuned to the inner Zodiac, while the latter chart
is attuned to the great sidereal Zodiac, or outer Zodiac,
which concerns spiritual attainment.
Before we proceed we must state that there are many
keys to reading the Pyramid.
Next observe the position of the star Spica. It comes
directly to the plane of the sixteen and five-tenths ( 16.5)
foot circular platform of the Pyramid, at the year of
nineteen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993). It also desig-
nates the commencement of the Aquarian Age at nine-
teen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993). Due to its reces-
sion in the Heavens as explained earlier it will arrive at
the apex or top of the Pyramid at the year of four thou-
sand, four hundred and twenty-seven (4,427) A. D.,
which conforms perfectly with the recession of the equa-
tor to the peak of the King's Chamber.
Here we have a second method of measuring the
Aquarian Age. This star symbolizes the beautiful and
sacred observance of the birth of the Blessed Virgin, on
September the eighth (8th), and the magnificent religious
teachings of the Blessed Virgin in the Christian churches.
It also symbolizes the Jewish new year and it also sym-
bolizes the Mystical Masonic Symbol on the reverse side
of the great seal of the United States of America. The
reverse side of the seal conceals the destiny of the Great
American People. Based on the mysteries of the Pyra-
mid and astronomically revealed by the beautiful star
Spica over the top of the Pyramid. The beautiful Morn-
ing Star that guided the three wise men from the East.
We read in St. John's Revelations, second (2nd) chapter,
45
twenty-eighth (28th) verse: "As I also received of my
Father ; and I will give him the Morning Star."
As Spica rises over the Pyramid in the year of nine-
teen hundred and ninety-three (1993) A. D. it will
signalize the true unification of the American people and
a social unity for justice, also the commencement of the
Golden Age, when the Goddess of ] ustice will rule the
Earth.
Next we deal with the star Zeta. It is located on the
Virgin's right thigh, on the constellation, and at nine-
teen hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) it comes to the
opening of the inclined passage near the center of the
line of the outer square on the lower right side of the
chart, and the star Eta or Zania on the heart of the
Virgin will have receded to the ecliptic. A line drawn
between these two stars at nineteen hundred and ninety-
three (1993) A. D. will pass directly on the corner of
the King's Chamher, and will cross the vertical line of
the Pyramid mid-way between the King's and Queen's
Chambers. If we draw this line over the constellation's
symbol in the Heavens, it will pass directly over the
center of her thigh , over her heart and the center of her
upper arm. All illustrating the balancing of the scales,
or the commencement of the Aquarian Age. The balanc-
ing of the scales in the Heavens, is symbolized by four
stars of the Scorpion and three of Libra. Libra is the
scales, and Antares of Scorpio, one of the four cardinal
stars of the Heavens, is the pivotal point, and two on the
head and one of the left claw, forms the balance.
We dra"· a line of approximate!~· seven hours of right
ascension along the equator to the West from Gamma in
nineteen huudred and ninety-three ( 1993) A. D. we
come to the star Anilam, just coming to the equator, from
the Southern Heavens. In this part of the Heavens, the
stars proceed upward during the Solar System's trans-
lation of Aquarius. Anilam, Mintaka and Alnitah are on
the belt of the Mighty Hunter Orion, the most stupend-
ous and magnificent constellation, in the starry Heavens.
These three stars on Orion's belt are known by a number
46
of names, scripturally, Jacob's Staff. The exponents of
this work prefer to call them the three Kingly Stars.
As the star Anilam rises to the equator the United States
of America becomes the leading nation of the Earth.
Just below the belt of Orion is the location of the most
marvelous nebula of the Heavens, known to the astron-
omer as the Dark Horse Nebula. vVith a powerful
telescope directed on the dark portion of the Nebula, it
appears as if we were looking into a Heaven beyond the
Universe. This nebula conceals the Great Emblem of
the United States, under the guardianship of the three
kingly stars, surrounded by the magnificent constellation
of Orion. Permit no one to insult or desecrate this em·
blem, for it is a god-given emblem, and the fulfillment
of the scriptures.
We read in the book of Job: "Knowest thou the ordi-
nances of the Heavens? Canst thou bind the sweet influ-
ences of the Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion? Cans't
thou bring forth Mazzorath in his season, or cans't thou
guide Arcturus with his sons? Knowest thou the Seven
Stars and Orion?"
We are much in accord with Professor Smythe, one
of the writers about the Pyramids, when he says: "The
Pyramid was erected for a religious purpose, and the
message it bears will eventually be revealed to all men,
with more than traditional force, more than the authen-
ticity of copied manuscripts or reputed history." We
must add it will reveal a perfected system of astronomy.
The key of the system is revealed through the silent
Sphinx, the greatest and most remarkable monument on
the face of the Earth.
We will proceed to unveil the most remarkable
numbers of a perfected astronomy. We will reveal the
two master key numbers of the two Zodiacs.
The inner or Planetary Zodiac, and the outer or
great Sidereal Zodiac, which is calculated from the four
cardinal stars of the Heavens. Later on we will reveal
through the north passage of the great Pyramid the very
point of the Heavens, the Solar System is magnetically
47
attracted to, or in other words the magnetic pole of the
Heavens or Sidereal Zodiac.
There is a variation of symbolical Sphinxes that have
been evolved throughout the ages. All having their origin
in the master Sphinx, or Andro-Sphinx. It is located
about three hundred (300) yards, southeast, of the great
Pyramid. It is magnetically oriented to the star Altar of
the Eagle. Designating the time of its sculpture approx-
imately fifty thousand ( 50,000) years ago. We will
clarify this point with the astronomy concealed in the
great Pyramid later.
The Sphinx holds the key to the four cardinal stars
of the Heavens, and also the Seven Stars and Orion, of
which we read in the scriptures. It conceals the mystery
of a perfected astronomy. We will proceed to unveil
some of the astronomy herein concealed.
First we will forward some of its measurements, and
we will conceive of a monument of a perfected astron-
omy, revealing the master key number of the Solar
Zodiac.
During the Solar System's translation of the Sidereal
Zodiac, the Earth turns over, on itself, three ( 3) de-
grees, bringing about displacement to the Sphinx. The
measurement of this displacement is the key to the time
of the origin and sculpture of this monument, of a per-
fected astronomy.
We will present a chart of the dimension of this silent
mystery in the desert sands of ancient Egypt, the Lotus
of the Nile.
DIMENSIONS OF THE SPHINX
FT. IN.
Total length of the Sphinx_____________________________
_l 72 5
Length of the body_
_____________________________
______________ l 40
Chin to the forehead_____
______
___
____________________________ 19
Horizontal diameter of forehead_
_
_
______
____
_________ 23
Circumference at level of forehead___
_
______________ 72
Horizontal diameter at broadest part
of head gear_________________________________________________ 91
48
Height of neck ------------------------------------------------- 5
Horizontal diameter of neck_
_______
_
_
_
____
__________
_
__ 22
Circumference of neck______________________________________ 69
Total height of Sphinx_______
______________
______
_
__________ 65
Height of ear__________
_
_
______
____
_________
__________
___________ 6 5
Height of nose_
_____________________________
____________
________ 5 10
Height of mouth_____________________________
________
___________ 7 8
Face in widest part across cheeks_
____
_________
_______ 13 .06
Outstretched paws -------------------------------------------- 50
Height from crown of head to base
at fore-paws ------------------------------------------------ 66
Length of head____________
______
______________
______________
____ 30
Breadth of head approximately__________________
______ 14
From these measurements and the master key number
of a great sidereal year, we will evolve a remarkable cor-
respondence of numbers relative to the Solar System's
motions in the inner Zodiac.
We will commence with the measurement of total
length. We will only demonstrate with a procedure of
division. Our master number is twenty-six thousand, one
hundred and thirty-six (26, 136). The time required for
the Solar System to translate the sidereal Zodiac. Before
proceeding, the exponents of these measurements want it
to be clearly understood that we are dealing with approx-
imations which are probably more accurate than the
estimations made by the modern science of astronomy.
We are dealing with a measurement which cannot be
demonstrated bv astronomical mechanics of the present
day and it mu~t be clearly understood that the master
key number is twenty-six thousand, one hundred and
thirty-six (26, 136). This measurement is accurately
measured in the great Pyramid, all the way from its base
to the very apex. By proper mathematical calculations
it is revealed in the area of thirteen and sixty-eight thou-
sandths ( 13.068) acres. Founded in the silent Sphinx
which was sculptured thirty-nine thousand (39,000)
years previous to the Pyramid, or approximately fifty
thousand (50,000) years ago.
49
We will proceed by dividing 26,136 by 172.5, the
total length of the Sphinx.
172.5 I 26, 136 --:-
1
----
151.5 +
1,725,000,000=the approximate mean distance of the
planet Uranus from the Sun.
1.515=the mean distance of the planet Mars, from the
Sun, based on the equation of the Earth's ratio as 1.
15l .5=the approximate semi-diameter of the planet
Venus, based on the equation of the Sun's ration as l.
15.15=the mean velocity of the planet Mars in miles.
172.5=the numher of days elapsed between the Moon's
passage from one node to the other, or the period between
two successive eclipses.
Our next number is 140 or the number of feet in the
length of the body.
140 26, 136--;-
186.68 +
140,000,000=the mean distance of the planet Mars from
the Sun.
l ,866,800=the mean velocity of the planet Venus per
day.
Our next number is 19. The distance of 19 feet from
the chin to the forehead.
19 26,136--:-
1375.5 +
19=the equation of the planet Uranus, distance from the
Sun, the ratio being the Sun as I.
.19=the comparative density of the planet Uranus, to the
ratio of the Earth as l.
19=the mean velocity of the Earth during a great Side-
real year.
19=the acceleration of date between eclipses each year,
19=years of one cycle of recession of the :Moon's nodes
along the ecliptic.
50
1375.5=the approximate volume of the planet Jupiter,
to the ratio of the Earth as 1.
Our next number is 23. Twenty-three feet is the
horizontal diameter of the forehead.
23 26,136-;-
1136.3
11.363=the approximate diameter of the planet Jupiter,
to the ratio of the Earth as 1.
2,300=the miles of the Earth's displacement.
The next number is 72. Seventy-two feet the cir-
cumference at the level of the forehead.
72 I 26,136+
1----
363
Here we have one of the remarkable numbers re-
vealed by the Sphinx.
363=the number of degrees in a perfected circle.
363=the length of a day at the completion of a cycle
of civilization.
363=the number of days in a perfected year.
363=the probable rotation of the planet Vulcan per day.
72=inches, or the height of a perfect man.
72=degrees of normal temperature.
72=the normal heart beat of a human being.
.72=the mean distance of the planet Venus from the
Sun, equal to the ratio of the Earth as 1.
.72=the mean density of the planet Mars, compared to
the Earth's ratio being 1.
Our next number is 91. Ninety-one feet is the hori-
zontal diameter at the broadest part of the head-gear.
91 I 26,136 +
1----
287.2 +
91,000,000=the nearest mean magnetic distance of the
Earth from the Sun.
28.72=the approximate intensity of the Sun's magnetic
gravitation, based on the ratio of the Earth as 1.
51
The next number is 5. Five feet is the height of the
neck.
5 26,136--:-
5,227.2
.05=the mass of the planet Mercury, equal to the ratio
of the Earth as I.
5 degrees=the approximate inclination of the Moon's
nodes.
5=the least number of eclipses in one year.
5.2272=the mean distance of the planet Jupiter from
the Sun, relative to the ratio of the Earth as l .
.52272=magnetic diameter of the the planet Mars, rela-
tive to the ratio of the Earth as I .
522,720=Saturn's mean velocity in miles per dav.
5=the number of balance in the Solar System and also
in the gamut of our numerical system.
We proceed to our next number, 22. Twenty-two is
the horizontal diameter of the neck.
22 26, 136 __:_
1188
This is a very remarkable result of division.
22=the number of Aquarius.
I l=the number of signs in the Uzican Zodiac.
22=the degrees of Capricorn and Cancer, the magnetic
vortexia of equilibrium.
11 =the cvcle of Solar spots.
11 =the cycle of magnetic variation of the compass
needle.
11 =the number of davs it takes our invisible satellite
Lilith to make one revolution of its orbit.
88=the davs of Mercurv's revolution .
.88=the d~nsity of Uran"us, relative to the ration of the
Earth as I.
88.000 miles=the approximate diameter of Jupiter.
1I88=the approximate diameter of our invisible satellite
Lilith.
52
Our next number is 69. Sixty-nine feet 1s the cir-
cumference of the neck.
69 26, 136 -:--
378.78 +
69,000,000=the approximate distance of th e planet
Venus from the Sun.
6,900 miles=the approximate circumference of the Moon.
.37878=the mean distance of Mercury from the Sun,
equal to the ratio of the Earth as I.
3787.8=the mean velocity of the Moon in feet per
second.
We proceed to the next number, 65. Sixty-five feet is
the total height of the Sphinx.
65 I 26, 136 -:--
1----
402.09 +
.65=the comparative density of the Moon, equal to the
ratio of the Earth as 1.
4,020.9=the diameter of the planet Mars.
The next number in rotation on the chart is 6 feet
5 inches, or the length of the ear. We convert this meas-
urement into inches, giving the sum of 77 inches.
1----
77 I 26,136-:--
1----
339 +
7,700 miles=the diameter of Venus.
.77=the approximate mass of the planet Venus, relative
to the ratio of the Earth as I.
770,000 miles=the opproximate velocity of the planet
Jupiter per day.
The magnetic mean of 339 plus ( +) is 338. Thirtr-
three is the number of revelation, or the Christ numb~r
of Aquarius. Eight is the Saturn number of physical
death, and spiritual re-awakening. The sum total of this
number, or its additive value, is fourteen or five. Four-
teen is the equivalent of a lunar day, and five is the num-
53
ber of physical and spiritual balance. The number 338 is
the mystic number of the coffer in the Great Pyramid
Cheops. One of the remarkable numbers of the numeri-
cal science. The additive value of the number 77 is equal
to fourteen or five. Seven is the mystery number of the
numerical science. Seven is the absolute spiritual number
upon which the Universe is builded.
The next number is five feet and ten inches, the
length of the nose. We convert 'this measurement into
inches, which gives a total of 70 inches.
70 I 26,136 +
1----
373.3 +
70=one Saras, or the equivalent of 29 lunar and 41
Solar eclipses.
3.733=the mean diameter of the planet Neptune, relative
to the ratio of the Earth as 1.
373,000-=the mean velocity of the planet Uranus per day.
The next measurement is the horizontal length of the
mouth, which is 7 feet and 8 inches. We convert this
measurement into inches, and we have the sum of 92
inches.
92 26,136 +
284 +
92,000,000 miles=the Earth's approximate magnetic dis-
tance from the Sun.
2,840,000,000=the approximate distance of the planet
Neptune from the Sun.
The next measurement is 13.06 feet.
This number is equivalent to the acreage of the base
of the great Pyramid, conforming to half a great Sidereal
year. This is evidence of the astronomical truth of the
Pyramid's time of erection. It was built nearly 11 ,000
years ago when the star Vega of the constellation of Lyra
was the Pole Star. It is symbolized in the acreage of the
base, and we "viii add more astronomical proof later on
as to the time of its construction.
54
13.06 26,136 --7--
2,001 +
Our next number is the solution to the master key of
the inner Zodiac of the Solar System, as we will reveal.
It is the measurement of the outstretched paws of the
Sphinx. We read in the Scriptures: "The scepter shall
not depart from Judah nor a law-giver from between his
paws, until Shilo come." This is a spiritual truth based
on the motions of the Heavens, and is revealed by the
Sphinx and the great Pyramid. The great truth under-
lying this passage of the scriptures we will clarify.
We also read in St. John's Revelation in the eleventh
chapter, the first verse: "And there was given me a reed
like unto a rod: and it was said to me: 'arise, and meas-
ure the temple of God and the alter and them that adore
therein'."
Before we proceed to clarify these two scriptural
passages, we will deal with the symbolism of eleven and
twen.ty-two. The latter scriptural passage we referred to
was taken from the eleventh chapter. We stated pre-
viously that the number 22 was the number of Aquarius.
So it is, but eleven ( 11) also is the number of Aquarius.
The eleven symbolizes truth and spiritual attainment and
twenty-two (22) symbolizes chaos and destruction.
When Jesus was about eleven years old, he commenced
to deliver his beautiful doctrine and was crucified when
he attained the age of thirty-three (33).
We subtract 11 from the number of degrees in a per-
fected sign, and we have 22, and after the Solar System
transits the Aquarian sign of 33 degrees this cycle of
civilization terminates or goes into chaos.
The scepter, and reed like unto a rod are one, sym-
bolizing the ability to measure the Heavens. Materially
speaking the scepter and reed are analogous to the Sacred
Cubit. There are two or three cartouches or transit in-
struments that have been recovered from the tombs of the
former Pharoahs of Egypt. These instruments have a
length of almost eleven inches. This was one-half of a
55
cubit during the time of its use. We explained in Mystic
Astronomy, that as the Solar System transits the great
Sidereal Zodiac, systems of measurements change.
During the Aquarian Age the Sacred Cuhit \1·i ll ap-
proximate 22 inches, in conformity with the transla-
tions of the Heavens. The scepter shall not depart
from Judah till the Solar System enters the Aquarian
sign; when Urania, the Queen of the Heavens, comes to
rule for a thousand years. This is the time when the law-
givers will be amongst the people of the Earth.
We will divide the great Sidereal Year by the length
of the Lion's paws, which is fifty feet.
50 I 26, I36 +
1
----
522.72
This is the perfected key number, to the art of divi-
nition by the numerical science. It is the numerical key
to the inner Zodiac, of the Solar System.
72=the number of a man.
22=the number of the Sacred Cubit.
52.272=the number of weeks in a perfected year.
52=the number of weeks per :\'ear.
52=the number of a true pack of cards.
22=the vibrations of the magnetic vortexia or 22 degrees
of Longitude and 22 degrees of South Declination of
Capricorn to 22 degrees North Declination of Cancer of
the Astrological Zodiac ; but the first degree of Capri-
cornus and the sixteenth and one-half ( 16 y; 0
) degree of
Gemini of the Uzican Zodiac. a Zodiac that is measured
or attuned to the four cardinal stars of the Heavens.
22=the major keys of the Taro Cards.
22=the number of chapters in the Apocalypse, or St.
John's Revelations. An absolute perfected number.
The next number is 66. Sixty-six feet is the vertical
measurement from the crown of the head to the base at
the fore-paws.
56
66 26,136-;-
396
66 degrees=the Sun's total ecliptic limits.
3,960 miles=the Earth's approximate semi-diameter.
The next number is 30. Thirty feet is the diametrical
length of the head.
30 26,136-;-
871.2
.30=the comparative density of the planet Neptune, rela-
tive to the Earth's ratio as 1.
The last number is 14. Fourteen feet is the approx-
imate breadth of the head.
14 I 26,136 +
1----
1,866.8 +
14 Earth days=l Lunar day.
18.668=the mean distance of the planet Uranus from the
Sun, relative to the Earth's ratio as 1.
1,866,800=mean velocity of the planet Venus per day.
These measurements have been forwarded to sub-
stantiate the truth of the great Sidereal Zodiac of the
Solar System, which is based on the four cardinal stars
of the Heavens, namely Aldebaran, Altair, Antares, and
Regulus, the regulator of the great square.
We will now proceed to the inclined passage to the
subterranean passage of the Pyramid. We will use the
measurement of the inclined passage's magnetic inclina-
tion of twenty-six (26.136) degrees and the distance
across the widest part of the cheeks, which is 13.068 feet.
This number is the key to the time of its erection, approx-
imately 11,000 year ago. This is the key number of
magnetic vortexias.
There are two cycles, so we multiply thirteen and
sixty eight thousands feet by two, giving the result of
twenty-six and one hundred and thirty-six thousand de-
grees (26.136) which is equal to the true magnetic in-
57
clination of the inclined passage. We will reveal some of
the truth as to the reason for this tube being on the North
side of the Pyramid.
Due to the Earths displacement of one and one-half
(10° ) degrees since the erection of the Pyramid , this
supposedly telescopic tube, will point directh· to the
magnetic pole of the Heavens, or what is generally called,
astronomically, thr apex of the Sun 's wa1', at the end of
the Aquarian Age, when the Queen's Chamber of the
P yramid is entered, or the new Jerusalem of St. John's
Revelations comes to pass.
The width and height of this spiritual passage de-
termines the entrance to, and the termination of, the
Aquarian Age. Strange as it may seem, the Architect
was a Past-Master of the Science of Astronom1', as we
will now reveal; this passage was perfectly smooth and
white of color; it indicates the passage into higher
spheres of spiritual attainment, during and at the end of
the Aquarian Age, when the Earth passes into the spirit-
ual realms, symbolized by the magnetic attenuation of the
passage to the Pole of the Heavens, and also to the mystic
Pleiades of Taurus, which influences the magnetic vor-
texia of acceleration, which vortexia determines the end
of both cycles of civilization.
At the one end of the vortexia is the south cardinal
star, Antares, symbolical of physical death , and at the
other end of the vortexia, the North cardinal star Alde-
baran and the mvstic Pleiades, which s\'mbolize the over-
coming of the .physical by the spiritual. The mystic
Pleiades symbolize spiritual life after ph)•sirnl death.
These two cardinal points of the Heavens we illustrated
on the chart of a great Sidereal yea r.
We read in the sc riptures, in the Book of Job: "Canst
thou bind thr sweet influences of the Pleiacles, or loose
the bands of Orion?" We have just clarified some of the
truth of this passage of the scriptures, by the astronomi-
cal positions and P yramidical angle of the inclined pass-
age. At the lower end of the passage we have the pit or,
scripturally speaking, Jacob's Well, which \.Ve S)'mbolized
58
previously by the evolution of the P~' ramid by the stars
Denebola, Cor Caroli, Arcturus and the beautiful star
of the Goddess of Justice, Spica!
The pit symbolizes the chaotic condition of the Earth
at the end of this cycle of civilization, and beyond is an
unfinished chamber. The reason for this chamber being
unfinished, it symbolizes the commencement of a new
cycle of material activity, when the Earth comes out of
its chaotic condition, symbolized by the pit, onward to a
new cycle of spiritual attainment. Astronomically the pit
is symbolized in the Heavens by the star Denebola, which
measures the end of the Aquarian Age, which we illus-
trate on the Uzican Zodiac.
The Grand Gallery symbolizes the Golden Age when
the Goddess Astraea returns to Earth.
The ante chamber symbolizes the first woe of St.
John's Revelations.
The stone that blocks the entrance from the inclined
passage to the Grand Gallery, symbolizes the third woe
of St. John's Revelations. The well shaft or end of the
Grand Gallery, symbolizes the second woe of St. John's
Revelations.
All of these Pyramidical measurements are attuned
to the mystic astronomy of the stars of the Heavens.
The three woes of St. John's Revelations are also
symbolized by the Pyramids near by, all erected since the
Great Pyramid Cheops.
The Pyramid Asychis symbolizes the first woe.
The Pyramid Mycerinus or Menkaura symbolizes the
second woe, and the Pyramid Chefren or Khafra sym-
bolizes the third and last woe, terminating this cycle of
civilization.
The Pyramid Asychis was built of brick: by Asychis
who ascended the throne after Mycerinus, and it was
dedicated as the eastern gateway to the Temple of Vul-
can. The Pyramid Asychis is oriented so it determines
the reappearance of the planet Vulcan before the disc of
the Sun. It will possibly make its reappearance at the
eastern limb of the Solar Disc at the year of nineteen
59
hundred and ninety-three ( 1993) , and will be directly
over the center of the Solar Disc at the middle of the
Aquarian Age, and recedes to the rear of the Solar Disc
at the end of the Aquarian Age.
The mystic origin of the reverse side of the Great
Seal of the United States is founded in this Pyramid,
based on the motions of the Heavens.
Before returning to the charts of the United States
and the City of Los Angeles, we will deal with a mystic
belt of magnetic vortexia, the circle that determines the
fulfillment of this present cycle of civilization. We will
only relate its geographical position on the Earth.
This circle or belt extends from the South Pacific
Ocean over San Diego, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Wash-
ington, Philadelphia, and across the Atlantic by the way
of Paris, London, Berlin, and Moscow, Russia, and over
the Northern part of the Earth and returns to the South
Pacific.
The two prominent points of this belt are the Pacific
Coast and the Ural Mountains. The one extreme city
is Los Angeles, California, and the other Moscow,
Russia.
We only mention this belt as it is the belt of greatest
magnetic influence during the Aquarian Age. On this
belt all the way from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific
Ocean will rise men and women to great power and will
be fought the most terrible conflicts of all recorded his-
tory.
The first of these conflicts will come to pass when the
planet Vulcan comes before the Solar Disc at the com-
mencement of the Aquarian Age.
Then the United States of America will become the
supreme nation of the Earth, as is revealed by the Great
Pyramid and St. John's Revelations.
While we are dealing with this mystic belt of the
Earth and Heavens, we will mention an incident which
is now recorded history that transpired onlv a few vears
ago. In the Spring of the year nineteen .hundred. and
twenty-seven ( 1927), an almost unknown young man
60
piloted an aeroplane from San Diego, California, over
this mystic belt to St. Louis, where the sponsor~ of this
remarkable feat resided, and proceeded on his way to
Paris of the French Republic. Over night this young
man was hailed a hero. This young man was attuned to
the spiritual influences of this belt. At the very time of
this remarkable flight the ruler of the Heavens, the
planet Uranus, was transiting the vernal equinox, signi-
fying the commencement of a new era, and the Sun was
attuned to the vortexia of acceleration receiving the
spiritual influences of the Mystic Pleiades, symbolical of
spiritual awakening, and when he arrived at his destina-
tion, Paris of the French Republic, on May twenty-first
(21st) of that eventful year, the Sun had arrived to the
very center of this vortexia, indicated by twenty-nine
degrees of Taurus, in the Astrological Zodiac, signifying
a forerunner of the Aquarian Age.
The exponents of this work honor this young knight
from St. Louis, Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh! One of
the great Americans of the twentieth century.
Before we proceed to the birth charts of the U. S. A.
and Los Angeles, we will reveal another mystery of the
Pyramid as to its origin and its future spiritual reve-
lation.
We divide the number of days in a perfected year, at
the termination of both cycles of civilization, which is
three hundred and sixty-three (363) days of a perfected
year, by seven (7) the mystery number, we have the true
magnetic mean slant of all four slopes of the Pyramid,
which is fifty-one degrees and fifty-one minutes (51°51').
The exponents of this work must make it clearly un-
derstood that the slant of all four slopes are different,
due to the variations of the motions of the Heavens.
The object of presenting this measurement is to illus-
trate the truth that the magnetic angle of slant deter-
mines the length of a perfected year and determines the
end of both cycles of civilization when the days of a year
are equalized to three hundred and sixty-three (363)
days per year, which we illustrated on a previous chart,
61
and it also reveals the truth of its construction, approx-
imatelv eleven thousand ( 11,000) yea rs ago and its
spiritual message will be revealed during the Aquarian
Age.
We divide the great Sidereal year of 26, 136 by the
length of the base, which is 172.5 feet, \Ye have the
total of 1515. If we apply the law of reversion we have
5151 or the equivalent of fifty-one degrees <1nd fifty-one
minutes ( 51 ° 51 '), the mean magnetic slant of the
Pvramid.
. We will proceed to the birth chart of the U. S. A.
and the Cit~· of Los Angeles. Observe. the Sun i,; twenty
degrees (20° ) in Capricorn and twenty-two degrees
(22c) south declination in the Los A ngeles chart, di-
rectly on the center of the magnetic vortexia of equilib-
rium, and the Sun in the U. S. A. chart is twenty degrees
( 20° ) in Cancer and t·wenty-two degrees (22° ) North
declination, or the opposite end of the vortexia of
equilibrium.
This clearly indicates a divided unity of two great
empires, under the same emblem.
The magnetic vortexia is attuned to the influences of
the two equalizer sta rs of the Twins Castor and Pollux
in the upper Heavens. One is symbolical of mortality
and the other immortality, materialism and spiritualism,
inseparable twins. ·
The Southern vortexia is attuned to the great star
Fomalhaut in the mouth of the Southern Fish or Job's
Coffin, the small diamond of the Southern Heavens that is
opposite to the diamond of Virgo, which is s\·mbolical to
the revelation of the coffer in the King's Chamber of the
Pyramid Cheops.
The mystery of the coffer will be revealed ·when the
Solar S~·stem translates its orbit, past this constellation
and receives the magnetic influences from this small dia-
mond of stars, which will be approximately two thousand
four hundred and thirty-four (2,..J.34) years from the
year of nineteen hundred and thirty-five ( 1935 ) A.O.,
revealing the truth of a high spiritual destiny, also sym-
62
bolizing the truth of Los Angeles' destiny as the Queen
City, indicated by the diamond opposite the diamond of
Virgo.
The magnetic North declination of Los Angeles is
thirty-three degrees (33°) of a perfected circle of three
hundred and sixty-three degrees (363) and it is attuned
to the vortexia from the spiritual or immortal star
Pollux, which has a magnetic declination of twenty-nine
degrees (29°) and twenty-two degrees (22° ) of Longi-
tude in the sign Cancer at present, again symbolizing
spiritual destiny.
Now let's return to Job's Coffin or the Southern Fish,
and the water-bearer of Aquarius. He is symbolized as
pouring the water from the jar into the mouth of the
Southern Fish. This water represents the nector of life,
returning to the source from which it proceeded, by being
poured into the mouth of the Southern Fish or Job's
Coffin, at the end of the Aquarian Age.
While we are dealing with this part of the Heavens,
we will reveal the astronomical truth of a scriptural
passage taken from St. John's Revelations, the fourteenth
(14th) chapter, the twentieth (20th) verse: "And the
press was trodden without the city, and blood came out
of the press, up to the horses' bridles, for a thousand and
six hundred furlongs."
Just above the equator in front of the Great White
Horse Pegasus is a small constellation of stars, called
Equuleus, symbolized by a horse's head. This constella-
tion is opposite to Job's Coffin and is inverted towards the
magnetic pole of the Heavens. Here we have the Spiritual
Key to the scriptural passage just related, revealing there
will be wars amongst the nations till the Solar System
has arrived in its great Sidereal orbit to the neck of the
horse, at the end of the Aquarian Age. This horse's neck
symbolizes the last or third woe of Revelation5, or the
stone that blocks the entrance to the inclined passage in
the Pyramid that points to the north magnetic pole of the
Heavens, which symbolizes the passage into the Spiritual
Realms, that was explained earlier when revealing some
63
of the m1steries of the Prramid. The hon;e's head is in-
verted to.wards the pole of the Heavens for the very same
reason , s)·mholizing the passage into the Spiritual Realms.
\Ve will proceed to the Uzican birth chart of the
U. S. A. Here we have the planet Mars, the God of
\Var, right on the vortexia of acceleration. attuned to
the constellation of the mighty Orion. wh~rcin is con-
cealed the Beautiful Emblem of the li. S. A. br the giant
Dark Horse Nebula. Mars is closely attuned to the mag-
nificent star Bellatrix. In Greek m)·tholog)· this star
svmholizes the Queen of the Amazons, and Greek mvth-
~logr relate:; the Amazons excelled in war. -
Now if we observe the birth chart of Los Angeles
we will notice the planet l\1ercurr is directly on the
vortexia of the acceleration in the opposite point of the
Heavens in Sagittarius, symbolized by the Arche1. Here
is revealed the war strength of the Columbian Empire
from the Amazon Star, due to its superior intelligence,
indicated b\' the planet Mercury, attuned to the spiritual
influences of the mystic Pleiades in the opposite part of
the Heavens. designated on the Uzican chart by twentv
degrees ( 20 ° ) of Taurus or in the Astrological chart by
twenty-seven degrees ( 27° ) of Taurus. .
At the year of nineteen hundred and ninety-three
( 1993) the center star of Mighty Orion's Belt from
which the sword is suspended, comes to the equator, sig-
nalizing the entrance to the Aquarian Age and the first
woe of Revelations, symbolized in the Pyramid by the
ante-chamber to the Grand Galler)'. On his left arm he
holds high the lion's skin. symbolical of the ;neat strength
of the ferocious lion. "'·hich he possesses, and he holds the
skin high as a ·warning, of his strength. and his left foot
is raisecl to step o\"Cr the river Eridanus, ;;cripturally the
river Jordan, and astrologically the Piscean sign, into the
Aquarian Age.
Just helow Orion is the Uzican , or Columhian Em-
pire's Dove of Peace, with the olive branch in its beak,
translating its influence to the vortexia of thr planet
Mars, and the olive branch is analogous to the scriptural
6+
passage from Revelations, the eleventh (11th) chapter
and the fourth (4th) verse: "These are the two olive
trees, and the two candle-sticks, that stand before the
Lord of the Earth," symbolizing the two Great Christian
Empires, Columbia and Uncle Sam.
Just behind Orion, which is symbolical of Uncle Sam,
is the faithful little dog of the Columbian Empire ready
to warn him and protect him when danger arrives, for
danger will come to pass as related in Revelations.
Just below stands the great dog, with his mouth sym-
bolized by the great star Sirius, the inimical star of the
Nile. Here is revealed a combined military power, from
beyond the sea, who will attempt to overrun the United
States as far west as the Mississippi river, but the great
military strength of the Western Empire \viii dominate
the day and drive them into the sea.
The faithfulness of the Uzicans to Uncle Sam is sym-
bolized by the little dog, watchfully waiting for the
danger that lurks on the Eastern Horizon.
We read in St. Luke's Gospel, the eleventh (11th)
chapter, and the thirty-first (31st) verse: "The Queen
of the South shall rise in the judgment with the men of
that generation, and shall condemn them. because she
came from the ends of the Earth to hear the wisdom of
Solomon, and behold more than Solomon, here."
We will next observe the vortexia of regulation on
the Uzican chart of Los Angeles; it extends from twenty
degrees ( 20) of Pisces to three degrees (3) of Virg~.
Here we have the star Denebola and Regulus which de-
termines the end of this cycle of civilization, and Dene-
bola is known as Jacob's \Veil or the pit of the Pyramid,
all in true conformity. Svmbolizing, the Western Empire
of the Uzicans will be the last and greatest of the nations
to leave the records of history for the next cycle of the
great Sidereal Zodiac.
We glance at the astrological charts once more and
observe the ascendant of the U. S. A. and here we have
the planet Uranus rising, in conjunction with the great
65
north cardinal star Aldebaran, directly on one of the
equatorial vortexias.
On the Los Angeles chart we have the planet Jupiter
in the same vortexia, opposed by the planet Mars, which
is attuned to the opposite cardinal star of the same vor-
texia, the fiery red star Antares, of the Scorpion. Here is
symbolized some of the difficulties of the two great Em-
pires. Due to the rapid intellectual and spiritual develop-
ment, and also the military preparations of the Columbian
Empire, as a means of defensive security, symbolized by
the planet Mars, the God of War, attuned to the fiery
star Antares, again symbolizing military genius that is
unexcelled.
We will now proceed and put the Uzican Science to
the test.
In the latter part of the month of May, nineteen
hundred and thirty-five ( 1935), when the Sun transited
the vortexia of acceleration, directly receiving the spirit-
ual influences of the mystic Pleiades, and the Moon was
transiting the vortexia of equilibrium in Capricornus in
twenty-two degrees (22) of Longitude, the fine and re-
markable President of the U. S. A. attached a veto signa-
ture to the Veterans' Bonus Bill, signifying a critical
event in American History, symbolizing the physical death
of the Bonus Bill and the reawakening to the light and
spirit of a new day.
A few davs later when the Sun commenced to receive
the powerful influences of the fierv red star Antares,
which symbolizes physical decay, th~ Supreme Court of
the Nation ruled the Blue Eagle, or the :"'\. R. A., un-
constitutional.
Here we have symbolized a discord in the Nation,
due to the undermining influences of the planet Pluto,
which has been transiting the vortexia of equilibrium and
has maliciously reduced the spirit of the great American
people.
Fellow citizens of America. arise above these Plutonic
influences which have been stifling the heart of a great
Nation.
66
CllAI?T #a.IS
Tl-IE .J'TATIO/V.SO/TllE //Yf1
/J'/8LESAT-
El LI7E (/If ITHJ
Rise to the influences of true Americanism, symbol-
ized by the material and spiritual inseparable twins,
Castor and Pollux.
Our destiny is great, so rise to the dawn of a great
new day which is on the horizon.
Before the termination of this work the exponents
will present a strange and curious chart, illustrating the
stations of our invisible satellite or Moon, Lilith. (For
reference see Chart No. 15.)
And a finis to the work presented.
The starry Heavens, the handiwork of the Almighty,
conceals the evolution and destiny of Human Kind, and
within the symbols of the constellations is the key to
reading the Stellar Script. A script that is readable for
all eternity.
Such are the mysteries of our Sublime Universe.
"Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades,
or loose the bands of Orion ? Knowest thou the Seven
Stars and Orion?"
67
WRANIA
THE MYSTIC PYRAMID
ASTRONO'.VIICAL 0ELUSIO~S
Southwest of Cairo, Egypt, are enshrouded in silent
mystery, symbolical monuments of great antiquit1·. l'v1a-
terial symbols wasting away in the hot desert sands.
Time markers of the spiritual development and material
accomplishments of humanity. Monuments that reveal
the past historical events of ages passed ;\\n)-. l.\ionu-
ments that reveal the future destim· of all human kind.
Monuments that reveal the future destiny flf :he l.-nited
States of America. Monuments that reveal th e absolute
truths of the Christ teachings and the fulfillment of the
scriptures. l\llonuments that are constructe<l and meas-
ured in accord with the motions of the heaven>. :\1onu-
ments that are the m)·Hic ke1· to a perfected 51·stem of
Spiritual Astronomy. Monuments th at are r ~ rfectly
oriented to the four cardinal stars of the heavens. Monu-
ments that reveal the four c\'cles of civiliz~ tion during a
great sidereal year. Each cy~le attuned to one of the four
cardinal stars in God's firmament. l\1onu1r.ent,; that re-
veal the height of this cycle of civilization. l\Ionuments
that reveal the commencement and trrmin ntion of the
Aquarian Age. Monuments that reveal St. Tohn's Reve-
lations. -
We read in the twenty-first chapter of St. John's
Revelations, the first verse: "And I saw a new heaven
and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth
was gone, and the sea is now no more. (2nd ver~e. ) And
I John saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming
down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband. (3rd verse. ) And I heard a
great voice from the throne, saying: Behold th<' taber-
nacle of God with men, and he will dwell with them.
68
And they shall be his people; and God himself with them
shall be their God. (4th verse.) And God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes; and death shall be no
more, nor mourning, nor crying, nor sorrow shall be
any more, for the former things are passed away."
About three miles across the Nile from Cairo is the
small village of Gaza, now known as Giezah. The re-
markable pyramids of which we will reveal some of their
mysteries in this work are approximately five miles to
the southwest of Gaza. Having a latitude of approxi-
mately thirty degrees north, and a longitude of approxi-
mately thirty-one degrees east.
There are three large pyramids in this group. The
primary one is named Cheops or Kufu. The second one
is named Chepren or Kafra. The third one is named
M yce renes or Menkaura. There are three small pyra-
mids to the south and west of Mrcerenes. The principal
one of the group is the pyramid Asychis. There are also
three small p\'ramids to the south-east-b1·-so11th of the great
pyramid Cheops. A total of nine pyramids in this group.
This is the most remarkable group of pyramids in Egypt.
There are other groups along the Nile valley. There are
approximately seventy-five pyramids in Eg~·pt. All being
constructed at different periods of civilization, srmboliz-
ing spiritual and astronomical truths. All the pyramids
have their origin and evolution based on the constella-
tions of Stars, Virgo or the Virgin. Bootes or the
Bear Driver, Cannes Venatici or the Hunting Dogs, and
Leo, His Majesty the Lion.
In the work of Wrania or the U:i;ican Science, we
evolved the pyramid, illustrating its origin in this part
of the heavens. The book Wrania, or Mystic Astronomy
and the Uzican Science, should be thoroughly under-
stood, so as to glean the truth of what we will present
in this work.
Amongst this remarkable group of pyramids stands a
sculptored, spiritual and astronomical monument, a sym-
bol of the Almighty's material handiwork on the face of
the earth. A symbol that has weathered the storms and
69
ravages of the ages. A symbol that is perfectly oriented to
the cardinal stars of the heavens. A S\'mbol that conceals
the mysteries of the heavens. A symba"l that ante-dates all
recorded monuments on the face of the earth. A symbol
that will stand and weather the storms of ages to come.
A symbol upon which the Sun shone vertically when
sculptured or founded. A symbol that the slowly drifting
sands have partly buried. A magic hand has compelled
man to clear away the drifting sands from around this
mighty monster of the desert. A symbol in ,,·hich is
concealed the Sacred Cubit. A variable measurtment of
perfection. A measurement which is equal to an angle
of one inch. A measurement attuned to a great sidereal
year of the solar Zodiac. A measurement by which is re-
vealed the variable number of days in a great sidereal
year. A measurement to which is attuned the perfected
number of degrees in a circle. A measurement perfectly
recorded in the great Pyramid.
We read in the book of Zechariah, the fourth chapter,
seventh verse: "\Vho art thou, 0 great 1\-lountain, before
Zerubbabel, thou shalt become a plain : and he shall bring
forth the head-stone thereof with shoutings, crying:
'Grace, grace unto it'!"
What is this mystic s\•mbol in the dem·t wastes of
ancient Egypt? Th~ ensh~oudment of a perfected spirit-
ual and astromonical evolution of the heavens, the (Silent
Sphinx). A perfected key to a magnetic spiritual astron-
omy. A key to the sidereal heavens. A key to the higher
wisdom and spiritual unfoldment. A key to the com-
mencement and termination of the Aquarian Age. A key
to the destim of the United States of America. A key to
the destiny o.f the Queen Citv of this c1·clr of ci1·ilization.
A key to· the city that will .leave the .great monumental
record of this cycle of civilization. A key to th~ City of
Los Angeles, California. A key to reading the symbolism
of the Almighty's handiwork. A scroll readable for all
eternity. The magnificent and sublime starry heavens,
and a key to the unfoldment of the starn• hanner of the
United States of America. The great E~blem of Stars
70
and Stripes, concealed and protected by rhe most stu-
pendous and magnificent constellation of Stars in the
Universe, the Mighty Constellation of Orion.
We read in the book of Job: "Canst thou bind the
sweet influences of the Pleiades? or loose the Bands of
Orion? Knowest thou the Seven Stars and Orion?"
The silent Sphinx stands a few hundred yards to the
southeast of the great Pyramid, perfectly and magneti-
cally oriented to the beautiful star Altair of the Eagle
Aquilla and Regulus the regulator on the heart of his
majesty the Lion of Leo.
\Ve read in the scriptures: "The sceptre shall not
depart from Juda, nor a lawgiver from between his paws
until Shilo come." We also read in St. John's Revela-
tions, the twelfth chapter, first verse: "And a great sign
appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the Sun, and
the Moon, under her feet, and on her head a crown of
twelve stars."
14th verse: "And there were given to the woman two
wings of a great Eagle, that she might fly into the desert,
unto her place, where she is nourished for a time and
times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent."
17th verse: "And the dragon was angry against the
woman; and went to make war with the rest of her seed,
who kept the commandments of God, and have the testi-
mony of Jesus Christ."
Before we proceed to the mystic astronomical meas-
urements of the great Pyramid, we must reveal three
delusions under which the modern astronomer labors. We
reveal these truths for the advancement of the science of
astronomy and the welfare of the United States of
America. First we will deal with the theory of light
which is an illusion, that leads to imperfect measure-
ments. According to the law of magnetic vortexia, which
we undertook to explain in W rania or Mystic Astron-
omy, the earth has a distant belt of approximately 26, 136
miles where its magnetism is neutralized or invisibility is
prevalent. This is the point of transference or inter-
changing of magnetic currents relative to the Sun. A
71
point of neutralization in the ethers. As the earth rotates
on itself in harmony with the Sun's motion of rotation
and revolution in the sidereal Z odiac. there i,; an inter-
changing of magnetic currents at this distant belt. \ Vhen
the Sun comes to the horizon and ascends to the mid-
heaven daily, these magnetic interchanges are accelerated
to the point where our magnetism generates the phenom-
ena of light. This phenomena of light is perceptible. by
our visual organs provided they are attuned to this
oscillatory vibration of magnetism , which is transfe rred
to the mind by the optic nerves, and registe red th rough
the brain centers. The phenomena is analogous to X -ray
w aves of invisible light and also radio "·aws of aud ion.
Light is a phenomena of the eart h ir:;elf. relati,·<' to
the magnetic interchange of magnetic \·ortexia> of all
distant bodies in the universe. Therefo re rhe uni t meas-
ure of the light yea r is an illusion and lead,; to imperfect
measurements.
The second delusion under which the modern astron-
omer labors, is the apparent illusion of recession of the
celestial equator along the ecliptic. T he theo n· of ex-
planation of this delusion is put in this manner: the ea rth
has a slowing down motion , analogous tn a spinning top.
This motion if persisted in for approxi mat1
•\1 25.800
~·ea rs (the accepted number of ~·ea rs by mnst astron-
omers) , the solar svstem will ha\·e mar\ (' a compl ete
recession of the ecliptic. The expon<'nts of this ' rnrk
must state explicin· : there is no such motion in the snla r
svstem nor in the .heavens. This i>. an ahso\11t•? del usion.
. The solar svstem translates a siderral orhit around
the heavens. within the ecliptic conste\Li tions in 26. 136
yea rs. This is a perfected number of astronnm\· ,,·hich
we w ill undertake to reveal in the measurements of the
great Pyramid. \Ve used this m\·stic number in dealing
,.,.-ith the astron om~· of the Sphinx in the book of \ V rania
or the U zican Science.
The third delusion under which the mode rn astron-
omer labors is the mathematical number of degrees in a
circle. He takes it fo r granted th at there are 360 de-
72
gress in a circle. There was a time in ancient days when
the circle consisted of 360 degrees. That was when the
Sacred Cubit was exactly 21 inches in length. The Sacred
Cubit is a measurement having its origin in the constella-
tion of Orion. As the solar system translates its sidereal
orbit, the length of the Sacred Cubit changes or varies.
We will explain and reveal the true measurements of the
Sacred Cubit, which is in absolute conformity with the
motions of the heavens when we undertake the revela-
tion of the mystic astronomy of the Pyramid. The num-
ber of degrees in a circle is gauged according to the
number of days in a perfected year. During a great
sidereal year the number of days per year vary from 360
to 366 days. When the great Pyramid was built there
were exactly 360 days in a perfected year. At the end
of the Aquarian Age there will be exactly 366 days in a
perfected year.
There are two great cycles of civilization terminating
when the solar system arrives at its magnetic equilibrium,
when the number of days per perfected year have accel-
erated and decelerated to the mean of 363 days per per-
fected year. Herein is derived the true equalized number
of degrees in a perfected circle. There are exactly 363
degrees in a perfected circle. The circle of 360 degrees
is the third delusion under which the modern astronomer,
and other scientific minds, particularly the geometrician,
labors. The true number of degrees in a circle is in har-
mony with the motions of the heavens, which we will
reveal with the spiritual astronomy of the great Pyramid.
We do not wish to offend the modern astronomer,
for we realize his labors have not been in vain but rather
of great benefit to the human race. We appreciate his
intricate and ingenious mechanical devices and instru-
ments for astronomical investigation and research. We
esteem the astronomer very highly but we must not lose
sight of the truth that particularly we, the American
people, must proceed to higher scientific knowledge and
development as therein lies the salvation of our great
nation. The law must be fulfilled and the American
73
emblem must unfurl to the breezes. For astronomy to
proceed to its higher scientific stages. that is, mechani-
cally or magnetically speaking, it will be necessary to
develop mechanical and magnetic instruments that may
register the motions of the heavens.
The exponents of this work take pleasure in stating
they have been granted the spiritual knowledge whereby
they may measure the heavens, by the orientation of the
four cardinal stars, namely, Aldebaran in the north angle
of the heavens. Altair in the eastern angle of the heavens,
Antares in the southern angle of the heavens, and Regu-
lus, the regulator of the square, in the we,tern angle of
the heavens. Also the use of the two celestial poles of
the cardinal square. the northern one being in the con-
stellation Draco, and the sou thern one in the constella-
tion of Hydrus in the lower heavens.
There is another star's measurements used in this
procedure, namely Fomalhaut in the mouth of the Dol-
phin or, astronomically speaking, Delphinus.
\.Ve calculate with this mystic formula the present
position of the solar system at approximately :32 degrees
12 minutes in the Piscean sign of a ci rcle c,f (363 ° )
perfected degrees.
The solar system translates its orbit at the approxi-
mate rate of fifty seconds per century. At this rate of
motion the solar system will have arri\·ed at the com-
mencement of the Aquarian Age at the year of 1993
A. D. In approximately 58 years from the present date
of 1935 A. D .
This truth of the entrance to the Aquarian Age we
revealed in the origin and evolution of the Pyramid in
the book W rania or U zican Science.
We read in the book of Job, the thirt1··~ighth chapter
the sixth verse: "Whereupon are the sockets thereof
made to sink? or who laid the cornerstone thereof?"
This scriptural passage has reference to the spiritual
astronomy of the four cardinal stars, or the cardinal
points of the hea1·ens. Which is symbolized br the four
socket stones at the four corners of the great Pyramid.
7+
An impression of a heavenly astronomy on the face of the
earth. Each socket of the Pyramid corresponds to one
of the cardinal stars. The northeast socket corresponds
to Regulus the regulator of the square. The number of
days per year being 360 perfected days. This is the corner
foundation stone of the great Pyramid. The size and
dimension of this stone is one of the keys to the time of
construction of the great Pyramid, approximately 11,000
years ago. It designates the number of days per year at
the time of construction, and the magnetic corner of the
Pyramid is on the corner of this socket stone. The socket
stone at the northwest corner of the Pyramid designates
the cardinal star Altair. This socket stone likewise
designates the number of days per year when the solar
system has translated its orbit to the last degree of
Aquarius, at the year of 4427 A. D. The number of
days per year will be 366 perfected days, designated by
the socket stone's dimension and orientation. The socket
stone at the southwest corner corresponds to the cardinal
star Aldebaran and the mystic Pleiades of Taurus. This
socket stone's dimensions and orientation designate the
number of days in a perfected year: being 363 perfected
days. The socket stone at the southeast corner corre-
sponds to the cardinal star Antares of the Scorpion. Its
dimensions and orientation designate the number of days
in a perfected year: being 363 perfected days. Here we
have presented in stone the true sidereal Zodiac of the
solar system. Four socket stones perfectely oriented, and
have weathered the elements for approximately 11,000
years. The acceleration and deceleration of the number
of days per year is perfectly revealed by these socket
stone's dimensions and orientation. The mean magnetic
distance between these four socket stones is 792 feet. The
mathematical procedure is very simple once we have the
mystic key number of the great sidereal Zodiac. This
magic number is 26, 136. We only need to divide this
mystic number, 26, 136, by 33, the spiritual or Christ
number of Aquarius, or one division qf the 11 signs of
the perfected Zodiac of 363 degrees. Twenty-six thou-
75
sand, one hundred and thirty-six divided b~· 33 gives the
result of 792. The number of mean magnetic feet or
total distance between any two of the socket stones of
the Pyramid. The number 26, 136 is the key number to
spiritual astronomy and the great Pyramid. lts origin
being founded in the number of years required of the
solar system to translate its sidereal orbit from the great
regulator of the square. or Regulus, of his majesty the
Lion, of Leo, spiraling around the heavens to a point in
the constellation of Draco, the Dragon in the upper
realms, spiraling past the great rosy red and blue star of
Aldebaran, on the head of the sacred white BulJ; spiral-
ing past the beautiful violet and yellow star Altair, in
the neck of the great Eagle, Aquilla; spiraling past the
fiery red star Antares, on the heart of the Scorpion, in
the southern heavens, and returning to the purple and
white star on the heart of his majesty the Lion. This is the
master key number to the revelation of the spiritual
astronomy of the Pyramid. Revealing the truths of the
Christ teachings and the scriptures.
The exponents of this work must also state that the
astrologers are laboring under the same delusions as the
astronomer. Therefore the supposedly science or art of
astrology is at error, and accurate deductions cannot be
arrived at.
We are not attempting to discredit the science of
astrology, but rather help to elevate it from the super-
stition and pseudoism it has been relegated to.
We will proceed to a chart of illustration on the
origin and evolution of the great Pyramid. Following is
this remarkable chart. (For reference see Chart No. 1.)
PYRA:\110 MEASUREMENTS
On this chart is illustrated its origin in four of the
constellations, namely, Virgo, the Virgin; Bootes, the
Bear Driver; Cannes Venatici, the Hunting Dogs, and
Leo, his majesty the Lion. Therein is derived the origin
and evolution of the pyramids of Ancient Egypt. In this
76
I
-/ ~
~
....
"'
~
f,y, )t ~~ --+----zi@
, /{5iO
/ 90111 of
/ E11~'- ,.1
·i,\f pO~)
Y1~,.A~-~l(I ~:.1~_)i~r:~!~~,..o
·
1".N OF r11• .PYJ!f>l9.M/LJ e IVCOP.t
1--...-- · -- ··- • • .., • •., .,.,.:; '--v-,....-.> ,1;1.&.rr1n;u.,..,: V/,f(Jo, eoor&s, _~
_
t9NNES-tlENRTICI
..IUIVE 27 193S- CHA!'?T IVO. I
'
~
~
~
"
portion of the starry heavens we evolve the key to astro-
nomically reveal the mysteries of the great Pyramid. In
perfect accord with the Christ teachings ;md scriptures.
The method of evolving this chart is very simple. We
explained each operation in the book on W rania or the
Uzican Science.
The four primary stars from which we base the
circles and intersections of lines are Spica of Virgo, Cor
Caroli of Cannes Venatici, Arcturus of Bootes, and
Denebola of Leo the Lion.
The chambers, passages, slopes, base and apex are
symbolized by stars of the Virgin. During the Aquarian
Age these stars recede to the lower heavens, due to the
solar system's motion of translation through the sign of
Aquarius and the earth's motion of turning over
approximately .27272 degrees. A period of approximately
2,376 years, one-eleventh portion of a great sidereal year.
We illustrate the approximate present position of the
equator and the stars relative to this astronomical pyra-
mid. The approximate recession is also illustrated at the
corners of the chart for the year 1993. The star Gamma
or Porima will have receded to the roof of the King's
Chamber; the star Zania will have receded to the base
line; Denebola will have receded to the pit, in the sub-
terranean chamber; the star Zeta will be on the north
slope; the star Delta will be at the roof of the Queen's
Chamber; Vindematrix will be on the granite plug at
the entrance of the ascending passage. Arcturus will be
on line with the north entrance, which will point to the
orbit of the celestial pole of the heavens at the termina-
tion of the Aquarian Age, at the approximate year of
4427 A. D. The star Spica will be at the apex of the
Pyramid, revealing the entrance to the Aquarian Age.
We illustrate the true magnetic height of the Pyra-
mid in perfect harmony with the motions of the heavens.
Absolutely in accord with the Sacred Cubit, which varies
from 21 to 22 inches during one-half cycle of the sidereal
Zodiac, or 13,068 perfected years. Later on we will
reveal this most intricate and slow variation of motion
77
m the heavens, perfectly recorded in the great Pyramid.
The mean magnetic height of the Pyramid is exactly
484 magnetic feet. T he mean magnetic r.enter is 2+2
magnetic feet, at the Aoor level of the King's Chamber,
and I0.15151 magnetic feet from the south wall of the
King's Chamber. The mean magnetic center is 242 mag-
netic feet from the rnbterranean chamber Aoor line, or
sub-base line. The base line is l 02 magnetic feet from
the sub-ba>e line. or l +O magnetic feet from the magnetic
center. The Aoor line of the Queen's Chamber is 67. 1
magnetic feet abo,·e the base line, or 72.9 magnetic feet
below the magnetic center. or the Aoor line of the King's
Chamber.
There are 2+2 magnetic feet from the magnetic center
to the magn ~t ic apex. The circuhr platform measures
diametricall\' 16.5151515 magnetic feet. The magnetic
vertical from the circular platform to the magnetic apex
is 10.3030303 magnecic feet. These are perfected meas-
urements of a spiritu al astronomy. lV1easurements that
cannot be de;nonstrated h,· the present instruments of sur-
veying. The mean magnetic slant of all four slopes is
51 degrees 51.51515 15 minutes of an angle. All four
slopes va ry in conformity with the motions of the
heavens.
We read in St. l\1atthew's Gospel, the twenty-first
chapter, the fort~·-second verse: "Jesus saith unto them,
'Did ye never read in the Scriptures, the stone which the
builders rejected, the same is become the head of the
corner: this is the Lord's doing, and it is man ·elous in
our eyes. (43rd verse.) Therefore sa~· I unto you, the
Kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to
a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. (44th verse.)
And whosoever shall fa ll on this stone shall be broken,
but on whomsoever it falleth, it will grind him to
powder'."
The nation referred to in the 43rd verse is the United
States of America. The 44th verse refers to the spiritual
power of whoever may receive and have absolute faith in
Jesus Christ, the salvation of human kind, and the latter
78
part of the verse is a warning of the protection and
spiritual power of the first part.
The forty-second verse refers to the stone rejected by
the builders of the Pyramid, the capstone of the Pyra-
mid. We read in Eph. 2 :20: "And are built upon the
foundation of the Apostles and Prophets, Jesus Christ
himself being the Chief Corner Stone."
We will reveal the symbolism of this spiritual corner-
stone in the splendors of the magnificent starry heavens
later in this work.
The beautiful morning star Spica is symbolical of
Astraea, or the Virgin, Goddess of the heavens. This is
the star that guided the three wise men of the East. We
will reveal their identity in the splendor of the heavens
later. As all things on earth are recorded and symbolized
in the stellar script of the sublime universe. A script
readable for all eternity.
The number 484 is the Christ number of Aquarius.
By reduction we evaluate this number to 33. Following
is an illustration of reduction:
484
33
We add four and eight which is twelve or three. We
repeat the operation on both sides. Thirty-three is the
spiritual number of divinity. We read in the scriptures:
Jesus lived 33 years. There are 33 degrees in Mystic
Masonry. Here is revelation to 33 degrees per sign of
the Zodiac, or 363 degrees in a perfected circle. We
reduce the number of magnetic center 242 and the result
is three. Symbolical of the Divinity of the Father, Son
and Holy Ghost. We will next combine the three dimen-
sions of magnetic height, magnetic base and magnetic
center and reveal a most remarkable sequence of num-
bers. We place the magnetic center number in the middle
of this numerological formula. Which is a real magic
formula. Total 45 numbers.
79
9= 56= 242484242 =32 =5
8= 43= 66633666 =+2 =6
7= 32= 3396933 =36 =9
6= 37= 636636 =30 =3
5= 32= 99399 =39 =3
4= 19= 9339 =2+ =6
3= 11= 363 =12 =3
2= 10= 99 =18 =9
l= 2= 9 =9 =9
45 242=8 242=8 53=8
This is a perfect magic formula of the numismatic
science. A perfect formula of the pyramid. A formula
that mar reveal a perfect system of astronomy if properly
applied. Notice the second row of numbers, counting
from the top rm..-. we have twice 666 on either side of 33.
'Ve will refer to a scriptural passage from St. John's
Revelations, 14th chapter. 18th verse: "Here is wisdom.
He that hath understanding let him count the number
of the beast. For it is the number of a man, and the
number of him is '666,' six hundred and sixn·-six." Here
we have the two polarities of sex, man and .woman, pos-
ited on either side of the Christ number of spirituality.
A perfect symbolism of spirituality. A perfect symbolism
of physical and spiritual manifestation. The final reduc-
tion of this formula is 8. Eight is the symbol of Saturn
or sign of the reaper. It is the last number of the coffer
in the King's Chamber which is 338. Three hundred
and thirty-eight is the magic number of the coffer. Thir-
ty-three being the spiritual number and eight the reaper
or physical number of death.
This pyramidical formula reveals nine numbers on the
three angles. If \\·e cube the number 9 " ·e have the result
of 729. B~· applying the law of inversion we have 792,
the mean magnetic side or the socket base of the
Pyramid. \Yhich is 792 magnetic feet.
\Ve ad<l the sum of the three angles "·hich are 32 at
the top and 56 on either side, we have the sum of 144.
'Ve apply the la"· of inversion and we have 1440 minutes
in a perfected sidereal day. 144 hours of variation be-
80
tween opposite cardinal stars. 144 cubic inches m a
cubic foot.
J4.4=the magnetic mass of the planet Uranus rela-
tive to the ratio of the Earth as l. Nine is the universal
number of Christianitv or Catholicism. The number of
all inclusion , or unive~sality. In the third row from the
bottom counting upwards we have the perfected circle
of 363 degrees. The perfected year of 363 days. The
number 6 is very prevalent in this formula. Also observe
the number 66 centrallv located in the formula.
66 degrees=the Su~'s total ecliptic limits. The num-
ber 3 is also prevalent. 33.03030303° =the Sun 's mag-
netic ecliptic node limits. 66.06060606=the Sun's total
magnetic ecliptic limits.
On the center of the upper row we have the number
484. 48.4=the magnetic vertical distance between the
base line and entrance opening of the Pyramid. To the
extreme right in the upper row we have the number 42.
42=seconds of apparent recession of the obliquity of
the ecliptic per century. 42.0303=the Moon's magnetic
ecliptic limits in degrees. 42.030303=the mean magnetic
seconds of the shift of the obliquity of the ecliptic per
century of a sidereal year.
We must leave this formula and chart of the origin
and evolution of the Pyramid, and proceed to another
very remarkable chart. Our next chart will reveal un-
usual abilities of orientation by a civilization long passed
away. Orientation that our modern astronomers could
not hope to measure with their astronomical mechanics.
Orientations based on the four cardinal stars and the
celestial poles of the heavens. Measurements that cannot
be demonstrated by the present day astronomical instru-
ments and devices. Orientations of precision and perfec-
tion, unequaled in our history of astronomy.
The key to this remarkable ability of orientation we
will reveal as the great silent Sphinx. Probably the oldest
monument on the face of the Earth. A perfect symbol of
the motions and measurements of the heavens. This silent
monster in the desert sands of Egypt is truly a magic
81
symbol. It will reveal unusual powers of orientation to
those who have earned the key. It reveals the origin of
the Pyramids, and its own origin likewise. It reveals the
destinv of ·the U nited States of America. It reveals the
destin~· of the Queen City of this c1·cle of civilization, the
beaut(ful City of Los A~geles, Caiifornia. It is revealed
by its orientation relative to the starry heavens.
Following we pre,ent thi~ most remarkable chart :
(For ri' frrence see Chart .Vo . 2.)
CELESTIAL ORI ENTATION
Here is an illustrated chart of perfected orientation
to the four cardin al sta rs and celestial poles of the
heavens. All measurements are based on the perfected
circle of 363 degrees. The key to this astronomical group
of pyramids is founded in the silent Sphinx. as this chart
will reveal. \Ve read in scriptures: " The Scepter shall
not depart from Jud ah nor a law-giver from between his
paws until Shilo come." This is a perfected spiritual
and astronomical scriptural passage.
One of the most mystical passages in the scriptures.
A passage that reveals the perfected orientation of the
heavens to the four cardinal stars. The scepter is the
equivalent of the slow variable motion of the great
sidereal year, equalized to the Sacred Cubit of 22 inches,
and is measured on the belt of the l\'light~· Hunter, or
Orion, the most stupendous and magnificent constella-
tion in the starry universe. Shilo has reference to the
solar system's translation of the Aquarian Sign, and the
return of the planet Vulcan before the solar disc at the
year of 1993 A. D .
"And a law give r from between his paws," has refer-
ence to the altar between the Sphinx's paws, symbolized
by the star Regulus on the heart of his majesty the Lion
of Leo. Regulus is the regulator of the sidereal square.
Law-givers are men and women lea rned in spiritual
astronomy, who will guide and create just laws for the
spiritual and material welfare for the nations of the
earth, during the Aquarian Age. All laws to be meas-
82
...
"
- ~\
i~r .
~~
~1
...
"
~
~
'o/
~
"
...,i.
...,,":·
,,
c·
·~
::i
LV• lfl '" 1a..,, y_r .,,,., • .,. .,. , . ,.. •• . - • · -- .. -•· •• - · ---- - • .
3'3P£1\FECT•D IJEtJ!t£CS .
ALL. MdllltJME"NT5 llAE 'Elf.f:~CTLt OAJa/tTEO 7D
lHA l-111/t. CARDINAL STA~.S
1 O't THE QRClt r
"OCIUlll Z OOIAC . 0.,E' C/GH7"0',fN 111/CN 11£11...L
TO APPllO~ tM"T£L Y 2 .J.• owe St6TE£NTN "~AN lllCH
IS £!!QAL_I!!_Al'l'ltD~l'4ATE:/.'f_ f , /0 ONG TNfAT, SCCDND
Of.AH tNCI( II £'141/IL-TD ;,l'l'lf.OXIMATCLf .c.r•
Cll•..r•o,A
CHART A6. 2
J:I()
ured in conformity with the motions of the heavens,
based on the Sacred Cubit of 22 magnetic inches, ful-
filling the Christ teachings and the scriptures. It is the
destiny of our great nation to become the leading law-
giver. We place the compass in conformity with the
scriptures, at the altar between the lion's paws or sym-
bolically the star Regulus. Then scribe a circle directly
over the north entrance of the Pyramid Cheops and the
center of the Pyramid Kafra.
This is the magnetic circle of orientation, from which
all measurements are calculated and monuments oriented
to. This circle is equally divided into eleven signs of 33
degrees. Governed by the celestial poles and the four
cardinal stars.
We measure the circle from the line of orientation
of the Sphinx and distribute properly the eleven points
of orientation. Also from the north entrance which will
point to the orbit of celestial north at the year of 4427
A. D . This gives us 22 perfected points of orientation.
These are the points of monumental orientation. Reveal-
ing all monuments of this group are perfectly oriented to
the celestial poles and the four cardinal stars. On this
chart is illustrated the difference of orientation between
the Sphinx and the great Pyramid Cheops. The equiva-
lent of 16.5151515 magnetic degrees, the magnetic base
line of the capstone of the great Pyramid Cheops. Equiv-
alent to the Sun's mean magnetic ecliptic limit on either
side of the Moon's nodes. A perfect measurement of
magnetic astronomy, recorded in the great Pyramid.
We illustrate the perfect orientation of the Pyramid
Kafra to the celestial poles of the heavens.
The circle of orientation is directly on the center
vertical line of this Pyramid. The great Pyramid is also
oriented to the celestial poles, but the north and south
cardinal lines pass directly over the magnetic center. The
equivalet of 1.5151515 magnetic degrees of earth shift
during one-half cycle of the great sidereal Zodiac. The
Pyramid Menkaura is perfectly oriented to the 66th de-
83
gree on the circle of orientation, measured from the
north entrance of the great Pyramid Cheops.
The trial trench is oriented to the monuments di-
rectly, on the base line of the Sphinx's orientation. The
ascending and descending passages are, respectively, 66
feet and 50 plus feet, or the magnetic equivalent of
66.06060606 degrees and 50.848-1-8-1-8 magnetic days.
66.06060606 degrees is the Sun's total magnetic ecliptic
limits. 50.8484848 magnetic days is equivalent to twice
the sidereal rotation of the Sun on its axis. This trench
reveals the inclination and rotation of the Sun. Measure-
ments of a perfected magnetic astronomy.
The monuments directly to the rear and in the line
of the Sphinx's orientation are oriented to the four celes-
tial cardinal points. The monument to the northwest of
the great Pyramid is oriented to the ninety-nith (99th
degree) degree on the circle of orientation, measured from
the north entrance of the great Pyramid.
The three small pyramids to the south of the Pyramid
Menkaura are oriented to the 99th degree and the 198th
degree measuring from the north entrance of the great
Pyramid. The monument to the southwest of the Sphinx
is oriented to the I32nd degree of the circle, measuring
from the north entrance of the great Pyramid. The west
side of this monument is oriented to 0 degrees or the
north entrance of the great Pyramid. The center of the
east wall of the great Pyramid is oriented to the 132nd
degree of this circle of orientation, measured from the
north entrance of the great Pyramid. This line inter-
sects the line of orientation at the east center slope of the
great Pyramid, from the Sphinx to the north entrance of
the great Pyramid. This line of orientation we will
illustrate clearly on another chart which illustrates the
ground plan of the great Pyramid. The monument to the
east of the Pvramid Menkaura is oriented to the 99th
degree of the .circle of orientation, extended to the line
of square. The point of intersection of the circle of
orientation and the west slope of the great Pyramid are
84
oriented to the 33rd degree, measuring from the line of
the Sphinx's orientation.
The difference in the displacement of the orientation
of the Sphinx and the celestial cardinal points or the
north tube entrance is approximately 2.75 degrees. By
applying the magnetic law of conversion 2.75 is the-equiva-
lent of 27.7777777 magnetic days or the mean magnetic
sidereal revolution of the Moon. This is without ques-
tion of doubt evidence the ancients who erected these
monuments possessed remarkable astronomical knowledge,
surpassing the knowledge of the modern astronomer with
his remarkable astronomical devices and instruments.
The modern astronomer could not hope to equal the
measurements and orientation we have presented by this
chart with the instruments of the present clay. It is nec-
essary to evolve, invent or devise magnetic instruments
to register the magnetic vortexias, and overcome the
illusory theory of light, for we do not receive light nor
heat from the Sun.
Light and all other manifestations of the earth are
due to its interchange of magnetic vortexias relative to
all other bodies in the stellar heavens.
The interchanging of magnetic vortexias is propor-
tionate to the disturbance of the ether, relative to the
size, motion, velocity, mass, density, distance, volume,
etc., of the bodies or orbs of the heavens. Thus we de-
fine the remarkable law of gravitation, that keeps the
orbs of the heavens in perfected harmonv of motion.
Before we proceed to the next chart ~f illustration we
must explicitly state, practically all astronomical measure-
ments of the present day are approximations. The mate-
rialistic astronomer with his remarkable telescope and
other astronomical instruments can only hope to measure
the motions of the heavens perfectly when he has mag-
netic instruments that will register or measure the mag-
netic vortexias.
We hope that day may soon come to pass, for by
scientific development and progress we will rise to higher
standards of spiritual and material well being. By scien-
85
tific inventions and developments will our great nation
rise from the sad dilemma it has been subjected to since
the vear of 1929 A. D.
The astronomer is the leader of the host of scien-
tific minds, therefore we honor the astronomer and are
grateful for his labors in the observatory. From his labors
comes the perfected time clock which regulates th e acti1·i-
ties of a Marcurial National of over 123,000,000 people.
He is of the highest importance to the present day stage
of civilization. Through his labors has come the sidereal
clock that regulates the course of the magnificent ships
that sail the seas. The sidereal clock that governs the
courses of the modern and beautiful ships of the air. He
is the silent hero to whom we seldom pa~· honor. He does
not care to be heralded, for he realizes his labors are un-
selfish and for the utmost good to humankind. He re-
alizes, through his labors, some d a~· \\·ill come to pass
when he will cm;s the borderland and have no fear of
coming face to face with his God.
· '\Ve will proceed to our next chart of illustration.
An illustration of the ground plan of the great Pyramid
Cheops.
Following we present this chart. (For rl'ference see
Chart No. 3.)
The magnetic center is indicated by the dot in the
King's Chamber. The point is exactly 7.1515151 mag-
netic feet from the north wall, and 10.03030303 mag-
netic feet from the south wall. Making a total of
17.1818181 magnetic feet, or the width ~f the King's
Chamber. These numbers are perfected magnetic astro-
nomical measurements. 7.1515151 equals a perfected
magnetic lunar ~·eek . 10.03030303 equals degrees of the
Moon's total magnetic distance of orbit departure
from the ecliptic. We convert the total <li,;tance from
wall to wall into miles. which is the mean magnetic dis-
tance of the planet Uranus from the Sun. 1,718 ,181 ,810
miles or the approximate magnetic distance of the planet
Uranus from the Sun. We may state "·bile we are deal-
ing with this magnetic center, it may interest the astrol-
86
ac
>- ~
... a:
00
:r..,
I- ..
~..,
...
..J
NAG. SCCl<ETI.I/Ve 7'!,lFT
"'z."
.. 0 ...
~,.:
>"' ...
. s;
.r: ~n
l" ...
C#ART A6..J
ogers, that the planet Uran us, the ruler of astronomy, is
now transiting this degree of the heavens, or 3 degrees of
the sign Taurus, which rules the mysteries of the great
Pyramid. We may also state that 13 degrees of Taurus
has rule over the great Pyramid. At present it is a frac-
tion short of 13 degrees of Taurus, but at the end of
the Aquarian Age it will have perfect influence over the
great Pyramid.
We place the compass at the magnetic center and
scribe a circle directly over the north entrance, or spiritual
passage of the Pyramid. This circle is called the circle
of orientation. We divide the circle into eleven divisions
or 33 degrees each, equal to the true number of signs
of the Zodiac and the number of degrees in a perfected
circle of the great sidereal Zodiac of 26,136 years.
The 66th degree measuring from the north entrance
comes directly to the intersection of the east base line
and the circle of orientation. The 99th degree comes
directly to the intersection of the east socket base line and
the circle of orientation.
The 198th degree comes directly to the intersection
of the south socket line and the circle of orientation.
The 23 lst degree comes directly to the intersection
of the sowthwest slope line and the circle of orientation.
The 297th degree comes directly to the intersection
of the west base line and the circle of orientation.
On this chart we illustrate the line of perfected orien-
tation of the Pyramid to the silent Sphinx. Observe the
intersection of this line directly over the east slope slant
center and passes directly over the northwest corner of
the pavement on the north side entrance. This is the line
of orientation we referred to when dealing with the
orientation of the previous chart No. 2. On this chart is
illustrated the magnetic celestial pole's direction at the
year 4427 A. D.
The mean magnetic socket base line is 792 magnetic
feet. The north socket line is 791.99 plus magnetic feet
in length. The east socket line 788.92 plus magnetic feet
in length. The south socket line is 792 magnetic feet
87
in length. The west socket line is 795.27 plus magnetic
feet in length. The east base line is 754.42 plus magnetic
feet in length. The south base line is 757.56 magnetic
feet in length. The mean magnetic base line is 757.57 plus
magnetic feet.
These same base measurements we have converted
into the perfect cubit. The north base line has a length
of 413.21 plus cubits.
The east base line has a length of 411.50 plus cubits.
The south base line has a length of 413.20 plus cubits.
The west base line has a length of 414.92 plus cubits.
413.2145454 cubits is the mean magnetic base line length.
We will deal with the slope slant of the Pyramid
next. vVe must state at this time that the great Pyramid
is a perfected symbol of spiritual astronomy, revealing
the motions of the heavens. According to the motions of
the heavens, there are none of the four slopts equal in
slant. On this chart is illustrated the magnetic slant of
all four slopes, the four corners and the mean magnetic
slant of the Pyramid. Its mean magnetic slant is 51
degres 51.5151515 minutes, fifty-one degrees and fifty-
one plus minutes. This measurement is a perfected mag-
netic measurement from which there is no deviation. It
is in absolute accord with the motions of the heavens and
also reveals the time of erection or construction of the
great Pyramid, approximately 11,000 sidereal years ago.
We revealed this mystery of the great Pyramid in the
book Wrania or Mystic Astronomy and the Uzican
Science. This slope slant number is the equivalent of
515151.51 plus magnetic minutes in a sidereal year of
360 days. The northeast corner slope slant is 51.42 plus
degrees. The southeast corner slope slant is 51.81 plus
degrees. The southwest corner slope slant is 51.85 plus
degrees. The northwest corner slope slant is 52.28 plus
degrees. The mean north magnetic center slope slant is
51.85 plus degrees. The mean east magnetic center slope
slant is 51.64 plus degrees. The mean south magnetic
center slope slant is 51.85 plus degrees. The mean west
magnetic center slope slant is 52.07 plus degrees. The
88
mean average of all four center slopes is 51.8571428 mag-
netic degrees.
We will reveal as we proceed a perfect spiritual
astronomy absolutely in accord with the Christ teachings
and the scriptures.
As to the eleven divisions of the circle of orientation,
we will quote scriptural text according to St. Luke to
verify the harmony and truth of the eleven signs and the
scriptures.
According to St. Luke, the 17th chapter, the 11th
verse: "And it came to pass, as he was going to Jeru-
salem, he passed through the midst of Samaria and Gali-
lee." 20th chapter, 17th verse: "But he looking on them
said: what is this then that is written, the stone, which
the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the
corner?" 18th verse: "Whosoever shall fall upon that
stone, shall be bruised, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it
will grind him to powder." 23rd chapter 53rd verse:
"And taking him down, he wrapped him in fine linen, and
laid him in a sepulchre that was hewed in stone, wherein
never yet any man had been laid." 24th chapter, 9th
verse: "And going back from the sepulchre, they told all
these things to the 'eleven,' and to all the rest. 19th
verse: "To whom he said: What thing? And they said:
Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet,
mighty in work and word before God and all the people."
33rd verse: "And rising up, the same hour, they went
back to Jerusalem; and they found the (eleven) gathered
together, and they that were with them."
FOUR SQUARE GOSPEL
Our next chart is an illustration of the works of the
Almighty. The Christ teachings and the scriptures re-
corded in stone. The Great Pyramid of Gaza, Egypt,
(The Flower of the Nile.)
We read in the book of Isaiah, 28th chapter, 16th
verse: "Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I
lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a
89
precious corner stone, a sure foundation; he that believeth
shall not make haste."
We read in the book of Romans, 9th chapter, 33rd
verse: "As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumb-
ling stone and work of offence; and \vhosoever believeth
on him shall not be ashamed."
We read in the book of Isaiah, 8th chapter, 14th
verse: "And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone
of stumbling, and for a rock of offence to both the houses
of Israel, for a sign and for a snare to the inhabitants of
Jerusalem."
We read in the book of Job, 38th chapter, 4th verse:
"Where wast thou when I laid the foundation,; of the
earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding." 5th verse:
"Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest?
Or who hath stretched the line upon it?" 6th verse:
"Whereupon are the foundations the reof fastened? Or
who laid the corner stone thereof." 7th verse: "When
the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God
shouted for joy?"
Following we present the next chart. ( F()r referencf
see Chart No. 4.)
On this chart is illustrated the origin of the great
Pyramid, founded and based, or measured to the four
cardinal stars of the heavens, namely, Aldebaran on the
north angle of the great square, Altair on the east angle
of the great square, Antares, on the south angle of the
great square, and Regulus, the regulator of the square, on
the west angle of the great square. The northeast socket
stone corresponds to the star Regulus. This is the
corner stone of the Pyramid. The great Pyramid was
oriented to the silent Sphinx, and the cardin al stars of
the heavens from the northeast socket stone. This is the
keystone to the Pyramid, and the star Regulus. the key
star to the great sidereal cardinal square. This stone
reveals the time of construction or erection of the great
Pyramid. That was when the solar ~1·ste111 last trans-
lated in its sidereal orbit past the star Regulus, approx-
imately 11,000 years ago.
90
~!;!.,
....
.. o ..
..... <
2
~cs ..
...... %
c
:~
"'
=~
l:
...
h ,...
i
"'
r
..,
...
+
n
c:
.. "'
"' :j
<
...
,_ (A
,,. ....
... "'
.. ....
.. ...
l
:1
....
i~
.......
....
"' ..
~~
Pi l:!
u
CJ-IART#o.f
At that distant age the length of a year consisted of
360 sidereal days, and the cubit had a length of 21 inches.
The length of the cubit varies relati-.1e to the motions of
the heavens. This measurement of the cubit is perfectly
recorded in the Pyramid. We will reveal its being re-
corded in a number of Pyramid measurements. Also its
variation due to the motions of the heavens, and its per-
fected length at the end of the Aquarian Age. This
northeast corner stone corresponds to St. Mark's Gospel,
one of the four square.
The southeast socket stone corresponds to the car-
dinal star Antares. Antares is the great fiery red star on
the heart of the Scorpion in the southern heavens. This
socket stone or star symbolizes physical life or materiality.
We name it the physical corner stone. It symbolizes the
length of the year, consisting of 363 sidereal days. It is
symbolical of St. John's Gospel, one of the four square.
The southwest socket stone corresponds to the rosy
red star on the head of Taurus the Bull. It is the north
cardinal star of the great sidereal square. The Mystic
Pleiades of Taurus are also in correspondence with this
southwest socket stone. This group of stars are men-
tioned in the scriptures and the parables of the Christ
teachings. There are many stories in mythology relative
to this mystical group of stars. They are known by a
number of names: the Lovable Stars, Pleiades, Seven
Doves, Seven Sisters, and the Hen and Chickens. The
exponents of this work prefer to call them the (Lovable
Stars), for they symbolize the love and affectirm of Jesus
the Christ. In this work we use the astronomical termin-
ology of Pleiades. There are seven stars in this group,
namely, Alcyone, Merope, Electra, Celaeno, Taygeta,
Maia and Asterope. They influence the highest of spir-
itual attainment. We have great admiration for this
mystical group of stars. We name the southwest socket
stone, the spiritual corner stone. The length of the year
is symbolized, consisting of 363 sidereal days. It is sym-
bolical of St. Luke's Gospel, one of the four square.
The northwest socket stone corresponds to the star
91
Altair, in the constellation of Aquilla the Eagle. It is
symbolical of St. Matthew's Gospel, one of the four
square. This star is the time marker of our entrance to
the Aquarian Age in 58 years from the year of 1935 A. D.
At the end of the Aquarian Age the length of a year
will consist of 366 days, symbolized by this northwest
socket stone. We name this socket stone the magnetic
corner stone. Symbolical of high spiritual attainment and
development in electricity and magnetics. We illustrate
four cycles of civilization, consisting of 6,534 sidereal
years. Each cycle is symbolized by one side of the great
Pyramid, and each cycle is attuned to each of the four
cardinal stars. At the end of the Aquarian Age one great
sidereal revolution of the heavens is completed, and the
mysteries of the coffer in the Pyramid are revealed to
those who have kept the faith in the Christ teachings
and entered into the Spiritual Realms.
We read in St. John's Revelations, 21st chapter, 1st
verse: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for
the first heaven and the first earth were passed away;
and there was no more sea." 2nd verse: "And I John
saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from
heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband."
The sum total of all four cycles, symbolical of the
four square gospel, is equivalent of one great sidereal
translation of the solar system in its orbit around the
heavens, spiraling toward the celestial pole in the con-
stellation of Draco the Dragon in the upper heavens.
We illustrate the orientation of the silent Sphinx to
the northwest socket stone, symbolized by the beautiful
star Altair of the Eagle Aquilla. To understand this
orientation we must reverse the direction to the south-
east, as this monument is the reverse to the motiom of the
heavens. At the year 4427 A. D. the Silent Sphinx will
have attained a displacement of exactly 22 inches in
conformity with the motions of the heavens, equalized to
the Sacred Cubit of exactly 22 inches, and will point to
the great star in the southern sea of the heavens, the
star Fomalhaut in the mouth of the Southern Fish indi-
92
eating the termination of this civilization and the en-
trance to the Queen's Chamber, having its spiritual sym-
bolism in the great Pyramid.
On this chart we illustrate the line of magnetic varia-
bility and the magnetic center. This magnetic variability
is due to the Earth's turning over at the North Pole to-
wards the Sun of 1.5151515 magnetic degrees in one-half
of a great sidereal year, or 13,068 sidereal years. This is
the astronomical reason for the King's Chamber being
placed off center in the great Pyramid, being in conform-
ity with the true motions of the heavens. The orienta-
tion of the Silent Sphinx, astronomically indicates its
sculpture when the solar system translated its sidereal or-
bit past the star Altair of Aquilla, approximately 50,000
years ago. This silent monument, in the desert sands of
Egypt, is symbolical of a perfected spiritual astronomy,
revealing the mysteries of the starry heavens to those
who have earned the key and kept the faith in Jesus
Christ. Amen.
We read in the scriptures, taken from the Epistle of
Paul the Apostle to the Ephesians, 2nd chapter, 20th
verse: "And are built upon the foundation 11f the Apostles
and Prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the Chief Cor-
ner Stone."
We illustrate this scriptural passage in this chart.
The chief corner stone is the stone that was rejected by
the builders, the capstone of the great Pyramid in the
desert sands of Egypt. "The Lotus of the Nile." This
capstone is symbolized in the heavens by the beautiful
star Spica in the hand of the Virgin or Astraea, the
Goddess of the heavens. This is the morning star that
guided the three wise men of the East.
We will reveal this great mystery of God's magnifi-
cent starry heavens later on.
The largest star of the heavens we illustrate, as the
spiritual pole star of the great Pyramid. The star "Cano-
pus!" The Ark of the Covenant. When the Pyramid
was constructed or erected the great star Canopus was
93
the south pole star an<l the beautiful star \ 'ega of Lyra
was the pole star in the northern heavens.
We illustrate the orientation of the entrance to the
Queen's Chamber by the southwest corner line to the
socket stone of St. Luke, attuned to the Mystic Pleiades
of Taurus. At the year of 4427 A. D . the great Pyramid
will have received a displacement of I I inches in con-
formity with the motions of the heavens, equalized to
one-half of the Sacred Cubit of 22 inches, or half of a
great sidereal year, and the north entrance of the great
Pyramid will point to the orbit of the celestial north
pole of the heavens. Symbolizing the fulfillment of the
Christ teachings and the scriptures. Those who have kept
the faith will not be ashamed and will receive the re-
ward as is revealed by the Christ teaching and the scrip-
tures.
We read in the epistle of Paul the Apostle to the
Romans, 9th chapter, 33rd verse: "As it is written, Be-
hold I lay in Sion a stumbling-stone and rock of offence;
and whosoever believeth on him shall not be a$hamed."
EQUALIZATION OF MEASURE:\1ENTS
We will proceed to equalize the principal measure-
ments of the chambers, passages and the elevation of the
different chambers.
The measurements of elevation are based on the per-
fected circle of 363 degrees, and the great sidereal year
of 26, I36 perfected years.
The measurements we will now present are perfected
magnetic equivalents of the motions of the heavens. We
will commence with the magnetic height of the great
Pyramid. The magnetic height is 48+ feet. This meas-
urement's astronomical equivalent i,- remarkable indeed.
48.+ magnetic degrees is the equivalent of the total
departure of the Sun from the equator, or the magnetic
distance between the two tropics: namely, Cancer and
Capricorn.
The vertical height of the north entrance passage is
m conformity and reveals the same magnetic astronomy
94
as the height. It is 48.4 magnetic feet above the base line.
48.4 minutes is the equivalent of the Moon's mean
magnetic increase per day.
One-half the distance between the apex and the sub-
base line, or floor elevation of the subterranean chamber,
is the magnetic center of the Pyramid. An equally re-
markable measurement as the magnetic height.
The floor line of the King's Chamber is directly on
the magnetic center line of elevation. This measurement
is 242 magnetic feet. This is the number of perfect equi-
librium in the solar Zodiac.
24.2 degrees is the equivalent to the Sun's magnetic
distance of departure on either side of the equator,
namely, the two tropics.
24.2 degrees is the equivalent of the magnetic inclina-
tion of the axis of the ecliptic.
24.2 degrees is the equivalent of the elevation of the
north pole above the perpendicular to the plane of the
ecliptic.
24.2 degrees is the equivalent of the magnetic inclina-
tion of the plane of the ecliptic to the celestial equator.
Before proceeding to the next measurement, we will
return to the former number or the magnetic height, and
the vertical height of the north passage, which are
identical.
The number 484 and 48.4 are the numbers of the
beautiful emblem of the United States of America. The
most beautiful emblem recorded in the great Pyramid
of Egypt, revealed by the most stupendous and magnifi-
cent constellation of stars in the sublime heavens. We
will deal with the emblem of the United States of
America later on in this work.
The next measurement of elevation is 67.1 magnetic
feet, the distance from the base line to the floor line of
the Queen's Chamber.
67.1 degrees is the Sun's total magnetic ecliptic limits
on both sides of the nodes.
We convert this measurement of elevation into cubits
of a perfect length of twenty-two (22) inches. We have
95
36.6 cubib of elevation. This is a remarkable number
of measurement. For it reveals the perfect cubit and the
perfected number of da~·s per sidereal year when the
Queen's Chamber is entered, or astronomically speaking
the end of the Aquarian Age. The Queen's Chamber
is symbolical of this present cycle of civilization's physical
termination and the entrance to the spiritual realms for
those who have kept the faith in Jesus Christ. Amen.
We revealed this symbolical mystery of the Queen's
Chamber in the origin and evolution of the Pyramid in
the starrr hea,·ens, through the work of U zican
Science. .
This revelation is perfectly in accord with the Christ
teachings and the scriptures.
We read in St. John's Revelations, 21st chapter, 1st
and 2nd verses: "And I saw a new heaven and a new
earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed
away; and there was no more sea. And I John saw the
Holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from heaven,
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband ."
We read in St. Luke's Gospel, 20th chapter, 3Sth
and 36th verses: "But thev which shall be accounted
worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from
the dead , neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
Neither can they die an~· more; for they are equal unto
the angels; and are the children of God, being the chil-
dren of the resurrection." This is the second resurrection
symbolized by the Queen's Chamber. It is the promise
and fulfillment of the scriptures, through Jesus Christ.
At the end of the Aquarian Age the number of days
per perfected year will have accelerated to 366 days per
pe rfectecl year.
From the subterranean chamber floor level to the
base line there are I02 magnetic feet of elevation.
10.2 degrees is the equivalent of the total inclination
of the Moon's orbit to the plane of the ecliptic.
From the magnetic base line to the magnetic center
or the floor level of the King's Chamber we have an
elevation of 140 magnetic feet.
96
14.0 Earth days are the equivalent of one lunar day.
The magnetic distance from the floor level of the
Queen's Chamber to the magnetic center is an elevation
of 72.9 magnetic feet.
72.9 hours is the equivalent of magnetic variation
between two cardinal stars or one-quarter of a great
sidereal year.
The distance from the base line to the apex 1s an
elevation of 382 magnetic feet.
There are 382 periodical revolutions of the planet
Venus to 235 Earth periodical revolutions.
We will next present a remarkable formula of simple
multiplication , which will reveal two perfect magnetic
motions of the planet Venus.
We mu!tiply 26,136, the perfect sidereal year , by the
universal number 9. The result is 235,224.
235.224 is the magnetic equivalent of time elapsed in
years between two successive transits of the planet Venus
over the solar disc.
224.235 is the equivalent of one magnetic revolution
of the planet Venus in its orbit. This is a simple but
very remarkable astronomical revelation.
The motions of the heavens are in absolute accord or
synchronized to the compounding of numbers. A certain
wise man once said: "The Universe is founded in
numbers."
We will proceed to the magnetic inclination of the
passages and the inclination or sl~nt of the slopes.
51 degrees 51.5151515 minutes is the mean magnetic
slant of all four slopes.
51 .5151515 seconds is the mean magnetic translation
of the solar system in its orbit per year:
5.1515151 degrees is the equivalent of the Moon's
orbit inclination to the plane of the ecliptic.
515151.5151515 is the equivalent of magnetic min-
utes in a sidereal year of 360 perfected days. This mag-
netic slant of the slopes of the Pyramid reveal the time
of its erection when the sidereal year consisted of 360
magnetic days, or approximately 11 .000 years ago.
97
26.136 degrees is the magnetic inclination of the
passages in the Pyramid.
This is a most remarkable astronomical revelation of
the great Pyramid, as it reveals the perfected sidereal
year of 26, 136 years.
26,136 is the equivalent to the magnetic circumfer-
ence of the Earth in miles.
26, l36 magnetic miles from the Earth is the distant
orbit of our invisible satellite Lilith. We have dealt
with this invisible Moon or satellite of the Earth in the
work Mystic Astronomy.
26, 136 magnetic miles distant from the earth is the
belt of invisibility or the point of interchanging of mag-
netic vortexia relative to other bodies of the heavens.
26, l 36 sidereal years produces the phenomena of dis-
placement to the Earth, the equivalent of 22 inches or the
length of the Sacred Cubit.
We will proceed to the equalization of the measure-
ments of the Grand Gallery. 7.1515151 magnetic feet
is the mean width of the Grand Gallery.
7.1515151 magnetic days is equal to a perfect lunar
week.
28.6060606 magnetic feet is the distance from the
floor to the ceiling or roof of the Grand Gallery.
28.6060606 magnetic days is the equivalent of a
magnetic lunar month.
7 is the number of overlappings in either side of the
Grand Gallery. 7 mean days equals one week. Twice
the seven overlapping equals 14 overlappings in the Grand
Gallery.
14 Earth days equals one lunar day. We compound or
multiply the seven overlapping_s and the result is 49. The
Earth has 49 times more bulk than the Moon.
There are thirty-six overlappings in the ceiling of
the Grand Gallery. 36 is the magnetic equivalent in
hours of variation in one-half the distance between two
cardinal stars.
We add an aught to 36 and the result of 360 equals
98
the perfected length of year when the Pyramid was
erected.
3.5757575 magnetic feet is the distance apart of the
overlappings at the roof.
3.5757575 is the equivalent of one-half of a magnetic
lunar week.
3.5757575 feet is the width of the walking space at
the floor line. Other passages are equalized to this same
width, in conformity with the motions of the Moon.
We will proceed to the great step at the head of the
Grand Gallery. Here we have some most remarkable
measurements in conformity with the motions of the
heavens.
3.03030303 magnetic feet is the height of the great
step.
3.03030303 magnetic degrees is the equivalent of
Earth shift per one great sidereal year.
30.3030303 is the equivalent of one magnetic solar
month.
7.1515151 feet is the magnetic width of the great
step. 7.1515151 is the equivalent of days in one magnetic
lunar week.
5.1515151 feet is the magnetic length of the great
step. 5.1515151 degrees is the equivalent in magnetic
degrees to the inclination of the Moon's orbit to the
plane of the ecliptic.
These are the three fundamental numbers for com-
pounding magnetic measurements, revealed through the
great step of the Pyramid.
3.03030303 magnetic inches is the projection of the
sidewall overlappings.
3.03030303 magnetic degrees is the equivalent to the
shift of the Earth per one great sidereal year.
21.03030303 magnetic inches equals the topmost
overlap which projects beyond the base of the wall.
21.03030303 degrees is the equivalent of the Moon's
total ecliptic limits on both sides of the nodes.
Two times this ecliptic limit of the Moon gives the
result of 42.06060606.
99
+2.06060606 magnetic seconds is the equivalent of
the mean shift of the obliquity per century of a great
sidereal year. This motion is a very intricate and slow
procedure for the Earth to pass through. After a great
age of over 3,440,000,000 years the Earth will have
turned over completely or finished one revelation and will
then commence to turn in the opposite direction, although
remaining in the same direction of rotation relative to
the Sun.
We will proceed to the ante chamber and the tvvo
granite leafs.
There are two granite leafs fixed between the side
walls of the ante-chamber. One above the other.
Here we have the symbolism of the Old Testament
concealed in the great P yramid. We read in the book
of Exodus, 31st chapter, 18th verse: "And he gave unto
Moses, when he had made an end of communing \Vith
him upon Mt. Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of
stone, written with the finger of God."
We read in the 34th chapter, !st verse: "And the
Lord said unto Moses, hew thee two tables of stone like
unto the first; and I will write upon these tables, the
words that were in the first tables, which thou breakest."
These two stone tablets in the ante-chamber are svmbol-
ical of the two Moses received on Mt. Sinai. The.se two
tablets re\'eal the variable length of the cubit, from 21
inches to 22 inches in conformity with the motions of the
heavens. \Ve will deal with the variabilitr of the cubit
later.
There are 21.03030303 magnetic inches from the
granite leafs to the north wall of the ante-chamber.
21.03030303 degrees equals the total ecl iptic limits of
the Moon on the both sides of the nodes.
We will proceed to equalize some of the measure-
ments in the King's Chamber. For in this chamber, '"'·hich
is supposedly the most important chamber of the Pyra-
mid, are revealed remarkable astronomical measu rements.
\Ve, the exponents of this work, are at a variance
with other writers on the great Pyramid. There is no
JOO
doubt in our minds but the supposedly north entrance
is the most important part of the Pyramid. This part of
the tube from the three granite blocks in the ascending
passage, for a distance of approximately 60 feet to the
north slope, is in reality the exit and not the entrance.
This part of the tube is symbolical of the passage into
the spiritual realms at the end of the Aquarian Age.
The architects of the great Pyramid well understood
this truth, for they finished or lined this part of the
passage with perfectly white glazed stone with joints so
closely in contact they went unnoticed for hundreds of
years. Finally these joints were detected by one of the
investigators of the great Pyramid. This is the only
portion of the great Pyramid finished in white and with
such skill or genius.
White is symbolical of cleanliness, truth and spirit-
uality.
The King's Chamber is lined with red granite. The
King's Chamber is symbolical of man's earthly attain-
ments and should not be considered as the most important
part of the Pyramid. It symbolizes his mastership over all
earthly creatures.
We read in St. Paul's Epistle to the Corinthians,
11th chapter, 8th verse to the 10th verse: "For the man
is not of the woman, but the woman of the man. Neither
was the man created for the woman, but the woman for
the man. For this cause ought the woman to have power
on her head because of the Angels. Nevertheless neither
is the man without the woman, neither the woman with-
out the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the
man, even so is the man also by the woman ; but all things
of God. Judge in yourselves: it is comely that a woman
pray unto God uncovered? Doth not even nature itself
teach you, that if a man have long hair, it is a shame
unto him? But if a woman have long hair it is a glory
to her; for her hair is given for a covering."
It would be a benefit for some of our beloved Chris-
tians, particularly our supposedly good American Chris-
101
tians, to read carefully what St. Paul relates to the
Corinthians in the eleventh chapter.
The Kin g's and Queen's Chambers are perfectly in
accord with this chapter of St. Paul's to the Corinthians,
for in the great Pyramid the King's Chamber is upper-
most of all chambers, symbolizing this truth of man's
supremacy over all creatures of the earth.
34.4545454 magnetic feet is the distance across the
King's Chamber from east to west. 34.4545+5+ magnetic
degrees is the equivalent of twice the magnetic distance
of the Moon from its node at change will eclipse the Sun.
17.2272727 magnetic feet is the distance across the
King's Chamber from north to south. 17.2272727 de-
grees the magnetic distance of the Moon from its node at
change will eclipse the Sun.
19.3030303 magnetic feet is the height of the King's
Chamber from the Aoor level to the ceiling or first row
of nine beams. 19.3030303 magnetic degrees is
equivalent to the recession of the M~on's nodes per one
sidereal year.
There are one hundred granite blocks that form the
King's Chamber. There was a real astromonical reason
for using this particular number of blocks in this chamber.
One hundred times the diameter of the Moon's orbit
equals 46,000,000 miles the Earth advance per one mag-
netic lunation.
One hundred rods on the equator i' equal to
51.5151515 seconds of one magnetic degree. and
51.5151515 seconds is the equivalent of the solar system's
mean magnetic translation of its orbit per annum.
515151.5151515 magnetic minutes is the equivalent
of the number of minutes per one sidereal year of 360
days.
There are nine granite beams that form the ceiling
of the King's Chamber, extending five feet beyond each
of the north and south walls.
There are 90.0909090909090909 magnetic degrees in
one quad rant of a circle of 360 degrees. We invert the
number nine to a six and proceed, 6.0606060606060606
102
magnetic degrees is the equivalent of twice the departure
of the Tropic of Cancer per two great sidereal years of
52,272 perfected years.
This motion of the heavens is due to the Earth's
shift and the spiral motion of the solar system towards a
point in the fourth coil of the constellation of Draco in
the upper heavens, or the true celestial north pole of the
heavens. The north exit tube of the great Pyramid will
point to this particular part of the heavens at the year of
4427 A. D.
3.0303030303030303 magnetic degrees is the per-
fected shift of the Earth per one great sidereal year. We
plus these two measurements and the result consists of
nine nines or the equivalent of the number of beams in
the ceiling of the King's Chamber.
9 magnetic years is the equivalent of one revolution
of the line of apsides from east to west.
5.1515151 magnetic feet is the breadth of each beam.
5.1515151 magnetic degrees is the equivalent to the
inclination of the plane of the Moon's orbit to the
ecliptic.
7.1515151 magnetic feet is the depth of each beam.
7.1515151 magnetic days is the equivalent of a magnetic
lunar week.
27.3 131313 magnetic feet is the length of each beam.
27.31313131 magnetic days is the equivalent of one syn-
odical rotation of the Sun.
70.1515151 magnetic feet is the height of the King's
Chamber from the floor line to the gabled roof which is
composed of two white limestone plates. 70.1515151 is
the equivalent of one magnetic saros, consisting of 223
lunations. During this period of time there are 41 solar
eclipses and 29 lunar eclipses.
18.03305509 magnetic years is the equivalent of one
saros, when there will be a regular return of the same
eclipses.
This cycle of motion of the heavens has been handed
down to the present day by the Chaldeans and it was well
understood by the architect of the great P yramid, for it
103
is perfectly recorded therein by the height of the King's
Chamber.
70.1515151 magnetic tons is the equivalent of the
weight per beam of the nine beams which forms the
ceiling of the King's Chamber.
We multiply the magnetic height of the King's Cham-
ber by the number of beams in the ceiling and thf result
is 631.3636363. 631.3636363 magnetic acres equals one
mean magnetic square mile. Observe the perfected num-
ber of degrees in a perfected circle and the number of
days per perfected year is contained two times in this
number, which is in correspondence with the equalization
of the days per perfected year, two times during each
great sidereal year of 26,136 years. That is when the
solar system translates its orbit past the two cardinal stars
Antares and Aldebaran.
The ante-chamber is the small chamber between the
Grand Gallery and the King's Chamber.
The compartment measures 21 inches from the front
to the back. This 21 inches is symbolical of the cubit's
length when the Pyramid was erected or constructed.
This same compartment measures 41 inches from side to
side. The mean magnetic of this measurement is
41.6571428 inches.
41.6571428 magnetic seconds is the equivalent of the
Earth shift per century when the great Pyramid was
erected or constructed.
The length of year then being 360 days per year.
41.6571428 magnetic cubits, based on the length of
the cubit 21 inches long, is the equivalent of the distance
between the floor level of the Queen's Chamber and the
magnetic center, or the floor level of the King's Chamber.
50.84848484 magnetic feet is the distance between the
ceiling beams of the King's Chamber and its gabled roof.
50.84848484 magnetic days is twice the magnetic sidereal
rotation of the Sun. Its rotation being 25.42424242
magnetic days.
These are very remarkable numbers of the great
Pyramid as we will reveal.
104
In the number 50.84848484 we have the magnetic
height of the Pyramid, which is 484 magnetic feet.
The line of the floor level of the King's Chamber ex-
tended to the surface comes to the fiftieth course of
stone steps.
In the number 25.42424242 we have the magnetic
center of the Pyramid, which is 242 magnetic feet.
The line of the floor level of the Queen's Chamber
extended to the surface come to the twenty-fifth course of
stone steps.
This is evidently proof that numbers and a perfect
system of astronomy are relatively compounded in the
great Pyramid of Egypt.
I0.16969696 magnetic feet is the mean distance be-
tween the construction chambers of which there are five
above the King's Chambers proper.
1016.969696 magnetic miles is equivalent to the mean
variability of the magnetic semi-diameter of the Moon.
We will reveal the true mean magnetic semi-diameter of
the Moon as recorded in another portion of the Pyramid
later.
All entrances to the chambers are to the east of the
north wall.
We will proceed to the equalization of some of the
subterranean chamber measurements.
46 feet is the length of the subterranean chamber.
46 degrees is the equivalent of the planet Venus' greatest
departure from the Sun.
27 feet is the width of the subterranean chamber.
27.3131313 magnetic days is the equivalent of a synodical
rotation of the Sun.
I0.5 feet is the height of the ceiling in the subterra-
nean chamber. 10.5 inches is the equivalent of half of a
cubit when the Pyramid was erected or constructed.
52.6 feet is the approximate length of the bore in the
rock on the south side of the subterranean chamber.
52.6 is the equivalent of weeks per one year at the
commencement of the next cycle of civilization, when the
solar system will have passed the great star Fomalhaut in
105
the mouth of the Southern Fish. At that distant date,
which is H 27 A. D., the days per year " ·ill have accel-
erated to 366 perfected days per sidereal year.
We will proceed to the Queen's Chamber and equal-
ize some of its measurements.
17.2272727 magnetic feet is the distance across or
the width of the Queen's Chamber.
17.2272727 magnetic degrees is the distance of the
Moon from its node at change will eclipse the Sun.
18.7575757 magnetic feet is the length of the Q ueen 's
Chamber.
18.75757575 magnetic degrees after sunset produces
the phenomena of twilight, and before sunrise produces
the phenomena of dawn.
These measurements are symbolical of the termination
of this cycle of civilization, ~nd the commencement of a
new cycle. One symbolized by the twilight and the other
by the dawn. We revealed previously. the Queen's
Chamber is symbolical of the termination of this cycle
of civilization, and those who have kept the fa ith in Jesus
Christ will receive the eternal reward as is revealed in the
Christ teachings and the scriptures.
20.6060606 magnetic feet is the distance from the
floor level to the gabled roof, or ceiling of the Queen's
Chamber.
20.6060606 magnetic degrees is the equivalent of four
times the Moon's orbit departure from the ecliptic, or
twice its total departure from the ecliptic.
This measurement is symbolical of four complete
cycles of civilization. Each cycle attuned to one of the
four cardinal stars, or two half cycles of a great sidereal
year. At the termination of this great ~ idercal year the
Queen's Chamber is entered and the mysteries of the
coffer in the King's Chamber are revealed to those who
have kept the faith in Jesus Christ and have ~rn1bolically
passed by the three granite plugs at the lower end of the
supposedly ascending passage, and ascended to the spirit-
ual realms by the north exit passage which we explained
106
earlier in this work. The great Pyramid is a perfect sym-
bol of the Christ teachings and the scriptures.
SPIRITUAL SYMBOLISM
The great Pyramid is symbolical of the physical body
that limits the spirit in its earthly pilgrimage.
Most writers read the great Pyramid from the north
exit passage upwards to the King's Chamber. This is the
reverse direction and very misleading and is not in con-
formity with the motions of the heavens nor in accord
with the Christ teachings nor the scriptures.
We do not wish to offend any one with this state-
ment, but the truth must precede.
The first ascending passage should be reversed to
descending passage. All passages are descending with one
exception which is the north exit beyond the three granite
plugs.
The true entrance to the great Pyramid is symbolized
by the two limestone plates that form the gabled roof of
the King's Chamber. These two plates are symbolical
of the two sexes, male and female, or the physical power
to generate a new physical body for a spirit to enter its
pilgrimage to an earthly existence or experience. He
enters the physical body and must struggle and suffer as
revealed by the Christ teachings. He then proceeds
through life, and has two roads to choose and there are
pitfalls along the path as we will now reveal by the sym-
bolism of the great Pyramid. He proceeds downwards
through the construction chambers, which are symbolical
of moulding youth.
The King's Chamber proper is symbolical of youth
arrived at maturity. His first struggle commences as he
passes through the ante-chamber, for it is a narrow path.
If he has been fortunate in his selection of a path in life,
the Sun shines on him as he passes through the Grand
Gallery. If not he makes a rapid descent to the level of
the passage to the Queen's Chamber and the well shaft
that will lead him to darkness, oblivion and chaos, if he
falls into the well. If he has lived well he eventually
107
arrives to the cross roads of the descending passage, the
passage to the Queen's Chamber and the well shaft. If he
follo\rs the narrow path he " ·ill continue on through life
till he arrives to the three granite plugs, which is the last
great trial and a severe one as the three granite plugs
reveal. If he has " ·ell learned the lesson of physical life,
he passes by the three granite plugs at the termination of
his physical existence and passes upward through the
north exit passage to the spiritual realms. 1f he has failed
he goes downward to the pit in the subterranean chamber.
1f he falls by the wayside he makes a rapid descent b~·
way of the well shaft to the pit, which is symbolical of
death, destruction and chaos. The two white limestone
plates that form the gable roof of the King's Chamber
are symbolical of the commencement of this cycle of civi-
lization when the great Pyramid was erected or con-
structed. Downward through the construction chambers
is revealed the struggles of the human race till it has
arrived to certain perfection as revealed by the King's
Chamber proper.
We are now passing through that part of human evo-
lution as revealed by this part of the King's Chamber,
and will soon enter the ante-chamber, which is symbolical
of the first woe of St. John's Revelations.
After that period of war and destruction we enter
the Grand Gallery and pass through a period of peace
and harmony for approximately 1,000 years. This period
is the Golden Age when the Goddess Astraea will be
amongst the people of the earth. This is the age for the
fulfillment of Utopian Ideals.
The second woe of St. John's Revelations comes to
pass at the end of the Golden Age, when we have arrived
symbolically to the well shaft and the descending passage
from the Grand Gallery and the passage to the Queen's
Chamber. Here the Queen's Chamber is svmbolical of
purgation and rebirth. ·
The well shaft is svmbolical of the lost ones who fall
into the pit and must ·make a new round of the sidereal
Zodiac, for another initiation or unfoldment as revealed
108
by the bore in the south wall of the subterranean chamber.
The second woe is a period of war and destruction.
After this period of destruction comes the iron and bronze
age, symbolized by the descending passage to the three
granite plugs. These plugs symbolize the third and last
woe of St. John's Revelations. This is the final test and
destruction of this cycle or civilization.
Those who have kept the faith in Jesus Christ will
pass up the exit passage to the spiritual realms. Those
who have failed must descend to the pit of Chaos in the
subterranean chamber, for another round of the great
sidereal Zodiac.
After the passage of the three granite plugs, civiliza-
tion is destroyed and the earth passes through a period of
chaos symbolized by the pit in the subterranean chamber,
where it is prepared for another round of the great
sidereal Zodiac with the parent sun and the rest of its
sister planets. Such are some of the spiritual truths re-
vealed through the great Pyramid of Egypt, perfectly in
harmony with the Christ teachings, the scriptures, the
motions of the heavens and the stellar script, which re-
veals destiny to those who may have the key whereby they
may read this eternal script of the starry heavens. The
handiwork of the Almighty.
We will proceed to present the magnetic measure-
ments of the capstone of the great Pyramid. A Holy Bible
recorded in stone that has weathered a great age, on the
face of the earth.
We will reveal the most remarkable truths concern-
ing the spiritual welfare of the human race and its des-
tiny recorded in this capstone, revealed by the holy
prophets, the Christ teachings and the scriptures.
We will reveal the symbolism of this capstone through
the motions of the heavens and the eternal stellar script.
The starry heavens which came forth by the hand of
God Almighty at the foundation of the World.
The first measurement of the capstone we present, is
the magnetic base length. The mean base length measures
16.5151515 magnetic feet. 16.5151515 magnetic degrees
109
is the equivalent of the Sun's mean magnetic limits on
each side of the nodes. There are four sides or slopes to
the capstone. We multiply 16.515115 magnetic degrees
by four, the number of slopes, and the result is 66.06060-
606 magnetic degrees. This is the equivalent to the Sun's
total magnetic ecliptic limits.
Our next measurement is the mean center vertical
height. This measures 10.3030303 magnetic feet. 10.-
3030303 magnetic degrees is equivalent to the total in-
clination of the Moon's orbit to the plane of the ecliptic.
We multipl~r this number by four, the number of slopes
or sides of the capstone, and the result is 41.2121212.
When this great Pyramid was erected or constructed
the perfected year contained 360 days, and the earth's
shift per century was equivalent to 41.2121212 magnetic
seconds.
The distance from the center vertical line to the base
line measures 8.2575757 magnetic feet. 8.2575757 mag-
netic days is the equivalent to the number of days the
Sun remains north of the celestial equator in excess to
the number of days he is in his apparent passage from
the celestial equator to the tropic of Capricorn and his
return to the celestial equator during a perfected side-
real year. This variation in the number of days is due to
the solar system's translation in its orbit, causing all
planets of the system to revolve in elliptical orbits. This
is the magnetic phenomena that causes all planets to re-
volve in eccentric orbits.
The solar system is now being translated towards the
cardinal star Altair of Aquilla the Eagle.
We multiply 8.2575757 by four, the number of sides
or slopes to the capstone and the result is 33.03030303.
33.03030303 magnetic degrees is equivalent to the
Sun's magnetic mean ecliptic limit.
The mean length of the four slant slopes is 13.068
magnetic feet. 13,068 years is equivalent to the time re-
quired for the solar system to make one-half of a com-
plete revolution or translation of its orbit. One-half of
a perfected great sidereal year.
110
We will next present a resume of scriptural texts
relative to this capstone's spiritual symbolism.
According to St. Luke: 20th chapter, 17th verse:
"But he looking on them, said: What is this then that is
written, The Stone, which the builders rejected, the same
is become the head of the corner." 18th verse: "Whoso-
ever shall fall upon that stone, shall be bruised ; and
upon whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to
powder."
Acts of the Apostles: 4th chapter, 11th verse: "This
is the stone which was set at nought of you builders,
which is become the head of the corner."
Book of Job, 38th chapter, 6th verse: "Whereupon
are the sockets thereof made to sink? or who laid the
corner stone thereof."
The First Epistle of Peter, 2nd chapter, 6th verse:
"Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold
I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, preciou$, and he
that believeth on him shall not be confounded."
Ephesians, 2nd chapter, 20th verse: "And are built
upon the foundation of the Apostles and prophets, Jesus
Christ himself being the chief corner stone."
Acts, 4th chapter, 11th verse: "This is the stone
which was set at nought of you builders, which is be-
come the head of the corner."
Mark, 12th chapter, 10th verse: "And have ye not
read this scripture ; the stone which the builders re-
jected is become the head of the corner."
Matthew, 21st chapter, 42nd verse: "Jesus saith unto
them, Did ye never read in the Scriptures, the Stone
which the builders rejected, the same is become the head
of the corner; this is the Lord's doing, and it is mar-
vellous in our eyes ?" 43rd verse: "Therefore sav I unto
you, the Kinglom of God shall be taken from you, and
given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof."
44th verse: "And whosoever shall fall on this stone shall
be broken ; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind
him to powder."
Isaiah, 8th chapter, 14th verse : "And he shall be
111
fur a sanctuary: but for a stone of stumbling and for a
rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and
for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem."
Romans, 9th chapter, 33rd verse: "As it is written,
Behold, [ lay in Sion a stumbling stone and rock of of-
fence; and whosoever believeth on him shall not be
ashamed."
Isaiah, 28th chapter, 16th verse: "Therefore, thus
saith the Lord God, Behold I lar in Zion for a founda-
tion stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure
foundation: he that believeth shall not make haste."
Psalms, I 18th chapter, 22nd verse: "The stone which
the builders refused is become the head stone of the
corner."
After reading these scriptural texts it should be evi-
dent to you; the capstone of the great Pyramid is sym-
bolical of Jesus Christ.
This Great Pyramid near Gaza, Egypt, has its or-
igin and symbolism in the starry heavens; as has previ-
ously been revealed in this work.
THE STAR SPANGLED BAl'NER
vVe will no..,,· reveal the symbol of this precious cor-
ner stone that is svmbolized in the heavens. But first a
scriptural text fro~ the Gospel of St. John, 12th chap-
ter, 15th verse: "Fear not Daughter of Sion; behold
thy King cometh, sitting on an ass'es colt."
And from the book of Zechariah, 4th chapter, 7th
verse, we read: "Who art thou, 0 great l\fountain?
before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a plain: And he
shall bring: forth the head stone thereof " ·ith :d10utings,
crying grace, grace unto it!"
In the most beautiful, magnificent and stupendous
constellation of stars in God's Universe is concealed this
precious corner stone of the structure. It is the Emblem
of the United States of America: "The Stars and Stripes
forever". Grace, grace unto this Emblem for it is the
symbol of the Christ Teachings and the fulfilment of
the Scriptures. Amen.
We are grateful to Washington, Lincoln , \Voodrow
112
Wilson, Lafayette and all others who have been true to
this most beautiful of all Emblems, symbolized, protected
and concealed in the constellation of the Mighty Orion.
We read in the Book of Job: "Canst thou bind the
sweet influences of the Pleiades or loose the bands of
Orion?
It is the solemn duty of all true Americans to cherish
and protect this Emblem irregardless of what the cost or
consequences may be; even unto death ; for he will be
rewarded through Jesus Christ before the Father. Amen.
It is the promise and it must be fulfilled.
This beautiful Emblem will unfurl to the breezes to
the end of the Aquarian Age, wherein will be the second
Resurrection and the mystery of the coffer in the great
Pyramid will be revealed. No Pharaoah or King of
Egypt was ever laid in this coffer for it is symbolical.
We read in the Gospel of St. Luke, the 23rd chapter,
the 53rd verse: "And taking him down, he wrapped him
in fine linen, and laid him in a sepulchre that was hewed
in stone, wherein never yet any man had been laid."
It is the sacred duty of all true Ameri.:ans to permit
no one to insult or desecrate this Emblem. Better you
shoot him dead on the spot who would attempt to do so.
We read in the book: of Numbers, 2nd chapter, 2nd
verse: 'Every man of the children of Israel shall pitch
by his own standard, with the ensign of their father's
house: far off about the tabernacle of the congregation
shall they pitch."
Throughout the ages the different nations of the earth
have been symbolized by a standard or emblem. Each
one in conformity with the motions of the heavens, and
in correspondence with the stellar script.
We go back to ancient Thebes of Egypt, and we
learn the Thebans had a banner symbolized by a Sphinx.
The Persians had a banner with an eagle fixed to the
end of a lance.
The Carians had a banner symbolized with a golden
rock.
113
The Athenians had a banner symbolized with the
olive and the owl.
The Corinthians had a banner symbolized with a
Pegasus.
\.Ve are all familiar with the Chinese banner. It 1s
symbolized by the Dragon.
The American Indian's emblem was a pole fledged
with eagle wing feathers. Later the American colonies
took unto themselves individual standards or emblems.
Massachusetts had a standard symbolized by a pine
tree.
South Carolina had a standard symbolized by a Rat-
tlesnake. The exponents of this work have great admira-
tion for this particular emblem, for the Rattlesnake is
symbolical of eternal vigilance, the price of liberty. He
is really a good snake, for he always will sound the warn-
ing before he strikes. And he never strikes, unless he is
treaded upon. He is a true symbol of Americanism.
New York had a standard symbolized by a white
flag with a beaver.
Rhode Island had a standard symbolized by a white
flag with a blue anchor.
The Chinese Dragon of which we are all familiar,
has its origin and symbolism from the constellation of
Draco: the Dragon of the upper heavens. This is the
reason for calling the Chinese people the Celestials.
The State of California has its emblem or standard
symbolized by Ursa Major or the Great Bear in the
upper heavens. Eventually this bear of the California
Commonwealth must become a white bear ; for it is sym-
bolical of the destiny of this great state.
One of the European nations has of late taken unto
itself a new emblem or standard from the upper heavens.
An emblem that has been universal throughout the earth
in all ages gone by, and used by nations of great antiquity.
It is the Swastika C ross of the German Republic. This
standard has its origin in the rotation of the constellation
Ursa Minor the Small Bear around the Pole Star daily.
114
We present these symbols as illustration of the origin
and symbolism of emblems in the starry heavens.
We will proceed to the origin of the first American
Emblem or flag as it is generally known. In 1775 a com-
mittee was appointed to consider a single flag for the
thirteen original states.
When George Washington took command of the
army at Cambridge in the year of 1775 the standard was
symbolized by the Union Jack in the corner and thirteen
horizontal stripes, alternately seven red stripes and six
white stripes. It was called the Grand Union or Cam-
bridge Flag. This same standard was raised over the
"Alfred" the flagship of the first American Navy by the
senior Lieutenant John Paul Jones on December the
third in the year 1775.
The first true American Emblem was founded by
that Immortal Lady Betsy Ross at the suggestion of
General Washington who later became the first president
of our Great Nation, the United States of America. This
remarkable lady founded this beautiful emblem on the
fourteenth day of June in the year of 1777. Observe the
three sevens and the one in this particular number as
they are unusually remarkable. W e plus the three sevens
"the number of mystery" and we have the sum of 21.
Now 21 inches was the length of the cubit when the
great Pyramid was erected or constructed. The cubit
varies one inch per half cycle of a great sidereal year. We
have the symbolism in the (one) preceding the three
sevens. We plus the one to the three sevens and we have
the total length of the Sacred Cubit of 22 inches, at the
end of the Aquarian Age. Furthermore this beautiful
Emblem that was founded by Betsy Ross will unfurl to
the breezes to the end of the Aquarian Age. It is revealed
by the Christ teachings and the scriptures. Recorded in
the great Pyramid of Egypt "The Flower of the Nile".
Symbolized in the magnificent constellation of Orion the
Mighty Hunter; and revealed through the motions of
the sidereal heavens.
On the fourteenth day of June annually the earth re-
115
ceives powerful magnetic influences from the constellation
of the Mighty Orion. On that <lay the Sun is approximate-
ly in conjunction with the longitude of "Meissa" the three
stars on the head of the Mighty Orion : the three King
stars on the belt of the Mighty Orion; namely Mintaka,
Alnilam and Alnitak. Also having a close conjunction
in longitude with the Bull's North Horn, and Capella the
beautiful and fruitful star in the constellation of Auriga
the Charioteer. Also the beautiful Amazon Star on the
shoulder of the Mighty Orion; namely "Bellatrix" or
the beautiful tree star. Lastly but not the least by any
means the star "Phacet" of Columba the Dove. Here we
have symbolized by the dove the simplicity, love and
peace of Jesus the man of Galilee.
Grace, grace! unto this beautiful Emblem of the
United States of America.
We read in the Gospel of St. Matthews 21st chap-
ter, 42nd verse: "Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never
read in the Scriptures, the stone which the builders re-
jected, the same is become the head of the corner: this
is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes!"
43rd verse: "Therefore say I unto you, the kingdom of
c;od shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bring-
ing forth the fruits thereof."
In this same month of June in the year of 1777 the
Congress resolved the flag of the United States be of
thirteen stripes of alternate red and white stripes; and
the lJnion be thirteen white stars on a blue field repre-
senting a constellation. These two thirteens are perfectly
recorded in the great Pyramid and attuned to the mo-
tions of the sidereal heavens, as has been previously ex-
plained.
The original length of the first American Emblem
was twelve feet; width seven feet and four inches. The
width of the stripes were six and three-quarter inches.
The stars from center to points measured three and one-
half inches. All stars being five point stars. The blue
field measured forty-seven and one-quarter inches wide
and sixty inches long. Having two and one-half inches
116
of blue field between points of blue field; between points
of stars and outside line of flag. Trimmed with a canvas
binding of one and three-quarter inches.
Since the founding of this beautiful emblem it has
underwent many changes.
General Washington, the first President of the United
States of America, analyzes this beautiful emblem in a
very dignified and simple manner. "We take the stars
from heaven, the red from our mother country, separating
it by white stripes, thus showing we have separated from
her, and the white stripes shall go down to posterity rep-
resenting liberty."
The first unfolding of the Stars and Stripes to the
breezes, over a war ship was by John Paul Jones when
he took command of the (Ranger) in the month of June
in the year of 1777. It was first carried into battle by
that Immortal French General who came to the aid of
General Washington in the name of Liberty; "La Fay-
ette". This was at the battle of Brandywine in the month
of September in the year of 1777. May he always remain
close to the hearts of true Americans in the name of Free-
dom and Liberty.
As we stated previously: the flag underwent many
relative variations. It varied from seven red stripes and
six white stripes to seven white stripes and six red stripes.
After Vermont had entered the Union in 1790 and Ken-
tucky had entered the Union in 1792: the stars and
stripes were changed in number from thirteen to fifteen
stars and stripes.
This was quite a departure from the true emblem.
In the year of 1818 the emblem was returned to its
origin:i,l thirteen stripes and an additional star for each
state to enter the Union. At the time of admission of the
state of Arizona in the year of 1912 the number of stars
became forty-eight. The blue field then contained six
horizontal rows of eight stars each. It has remained so
to the present day. The flag or standard of the president
is an eagle on a blue field, bearing on its breast a shield
117
displaying stripes and above the National Motto E Pluri-
bus Unum. Above a design of thirteen stars.
The eagle is symbolical of the constellation of Aquilla
the Eagle. The principal star of Aquilla is one of the
four cardinal stars of the great sidereal square; the beau-
tiful star Altair, which determines the entrance to the
Aquarian Age. The Millenium or Golden Age, when
the Goddess Astraea will be amongst the people of the
earth. Eventually another star must be placed on this
beautiful Emblen.;; symbolical of the Goddess Astraea the
Virgin; for it is recorded in the great Pyramid , revealed
by the motions of the heavens; in accord with the Christ
teachings and the Scriptures.
The height of the Pyramid which is 484 magnetic
feet and the capstone reveal this truth .
Forty-eight is symbolical of the unity of the states of
the Union and the four is symbolical of the Christ teach-
ings and the Goddess Astraea, the Virgin.
Four is the equivalent of the four ;;quarc gospels of
St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke and St. John .
Centrally and magnetically located on the blue field
will be a seven point gold star surrounded by the forty-
eight five-point stars representing the unit~· of the forty-
eight states.
Possibly the stripes will alternate seven white stripes
and six red stripes. This will come to pass after the first
woe of St. Johns Revelations in approximately fifty-
eight years or the year 1993 A. D.
The vertical distance from the base line to the north
exit of the great Pyramid also records this truth, as it is
48.4 magnetic feet.
The measurements of the capstone of the Pyramid re-
veal the true magnetic measurements of the Emblem of
the United States of America. It is also revealed in the
stellar script and the motions of the heavens.
We will present some of the perfected measurements
this emblem will conform to throughout our future des-
tiny. The length will conform to the distance across the
base of the capstone of the great Pyramid, or the mag-
118
netic breadth of the Zodiac, or the mean magnetic ecliptic
limits of the Sun on either side of the nodes, which is
16.5151515 magnetic degrees. We convert this number
into feet of linear measure, which is the equivalent of
16.5151515 magnetic feet. This is the true magnetic
length of the Emblem of the United States of America.
The width will conform to the magnetic height of the
capstone of the great Pyramid; or the equivalent of the
Moon's orbit total inclination to the plane of the ecliptic;
which is 10.3030303 magnetic degrees. By conversion
into linear measure it is equivalent to 10.3030303 mag-
netic feet. The width of each alternate stripe will be
.792540 magnetic feet.
The length and width of the blue field which are
equal, will correspond to the Moon's magnetic distance
of orbit departure from the ecliptic which is 5.151515
magnetic degrees. We convert this number to the linear
measures, and it is equivalent to 5.151515 magnetic feet.
On the magnetic center will be the seven point gold star
in conformity with the magnetic center of the great
Pyramid and the motions of the heavens. Surrounded by
an equal distribution of 48 white stars representing the
unity of the forty-eight states and outlying territory and
possessions of the United States of America.
The peace emblem will consist of seven white stripes
and six red stripes alternately and upon the top of the
staff will be the Columbian Dove of Peace.
This is the true Columbian Emblem of the United
States of America, which will be adopted by the Colum-
bian Empire west of the Rocky Mountains during the
Aquarian Age.
The destiny of the United States of America we
revealed in the work Uzican Science.
The military emblem will consist of seven red stripes
and six white stripes alternately. Upon the top of the
staff will be the symbol of the Eagle "Aquilla".
We read in St. John's Revelations, 12th chapter, 1st
verse: "And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a
woman clothed with the Sun, and the Moon under her
119
feet, and upon her head a crown of 12 stars." I4th verse :
"And to the woman were given two wings of a great
eagle, that she might Ay into the wilderness, unto her
place, where she is nourished for a time. and times, and
half a time, from the face of the serpent."
The mystery of the seven point gold star we will now
reveal. Also the mystery of the three "wise men" from
the east.
In evolving the great Pyramid we illustrated the ris-
ing of the beautiful star "Spica" of the constellation of
Virgo above the circular platform of the great Pyramid
at the year of 1993 A. D. That is the true time of our
entrance to the Golden Age, or the commencement of the
Millenium. Symbolical of the coming of the Son of Man:
Jesus Christ the Son of the most high God : the Father
Almighty. Also symbolical of Astraea, the Virgin; God-
dess of the Heavens. This is the true revelation of the
mystery of the seven point Gold Star on the magnetic
center of the Beautiful Emblem of the United States of
America. It is symbolized on the stellar script by the
solitary splendor of the Beautiful Star Spica in the hand
of the Virgin.
The three wise men are symbolized by the three
Kingly stars on the belt of the Mighty Orion; namely
Mintaka, Alnilam and Alnitak. These are the three
Kingly guardians over the Emblem of the United States
of America. Concealed below them in the most marvel-
ous and magnificent Nebula in the Universe: the Dark
Horse Nebula of Orion. Awaiting patiently the time
when the star Spica will rise over the circular platform
of the great heavenly Pyramid; when this Great Nation
will lead all nations of the earth. Keeping the peace and
harmony of the human race in the name of Jesus Christ
so the scriptures may be fulfilled. Amen.
These three stars are known by various names, such
as the "Seal Hunters", "Lost Ones", "Ell and Yard",
"Yard Wand", "Jacob's Staff", "Three Kings", "Three
Mowers", "String of Pearls", "The Spangles", "The
Golden Grains" and others. The exponents of this work
120
prefer to name them the three Kingly Stars: for such
they really are. At the year of 1993 A. D . the center
star of the three Kingly stars will have ascended to the
magnetic equator, symbolizing the entrance to the Aquar-
ian Age, and the United States of America will become
the leader of all nations of the earth. It is the promise
of the Christ teachings and the Scriptures; and the Scrip-
tures must be fulfilled.
We read in Canticles, 6th chapter, 10th verse: "Who
is she that looketh as an army with Banners?"
We will reveal this mystical scriptural text. It is
"Columbia", the Gem of the Ocean". Symbolical of the
Civilization of the Great Western Empire bounded by
the Rockv Mountains on the east and the Pacific Ocean
on the West. This civilization will leave the records for
the next great cycle of the sidereal zodiac. Terminating
at the end of the Aquarian Age or the year of 4427 A. D.
We read in the Book of Mormon, Book of Nephi,
13th chapter, 37th verse: "And blessed are they who
shall seek to bring forth my "Zion" at that day, for they
shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost, and
if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at the
last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom
of the lamb, and whom shall publish peace, yea, tidings
of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they
be."
Second Book of Nephi, 6th chapter, 6th verse: "And
now these are the words: "Thus saith the Lord God,
Behold I will left up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set
up my 'Standard' to the people, and they shall bring thy
sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried
upon their shoulders."
Book of Mormon, 1st Book of Jacob, 4th chapter,
16th verse : "But Behold according to the Scriptures
this 'Stone' shall become the great, and the last, and the
only sure foundation , upon which the Jews can build."
15th verse: "And now I, Jacob am led on by the spirit
unto prophesying, for I perceive by the workings of the
spirit which is in me, that by the stumbling of the Jews
121
they will reject the stone upon which ther might build
and have safe foundation." 17th verse: "And now, my
beloved how is it possible that these, after having rejected
the sure foundation, can ever build upon it, that it may
become the head of their corner?"
THE SACRED CUBIT
We will proceed to the revelation of the origin and
basis upon which the sacred cubit is founded. The cubit
is a measurement of variability, corresponding in varia-
bility to the motions of the sidereal heavens. It originates
in the three King Stars on the belt of the Mighty Orion.
Therein lies its source and origin.
During half of a great sidereal year or 13,068 per-
fected years, there is a variability of angle equivalent to
one magnetic inch betwi;en the three King Stars, due to
the solar systems translation of its orbit.
The cubit varies in length from 21 inches to 22 inches.
The great Pyramid was erected when the cubit was 21
magnetic inches in length. It is recorded in the Ante
Chamber of the Pyramid, and various other parts.
For instance we pass through the horizontal passage
toward the Queen's chamber. After we have traversed
six sevenths of the passage; the floor of the passage takes
a step downwards for exactly 21 magnetic inches. One
reason for this step is to illustrate or record the length
of the cubit relative to the positions of the heavens, at that
ancient age. The instrument used for measuring the
heavens was not a delicate and ingenious instrument like
the present day telescope used by the modern astronomer.
It was a very simple instrument. With this simple in-
strument the Egyptians oriented the pyramids and tem-
ples to the four cardinal stars of the great sidereal Zodiac.
An astronomical accomplishment the present day astrono-
mer could not hope to equal with his modern telescope
or transit instruments.
The Egyptian Astronomer of Ancient times was
highly spiritual, which accounts for his excellent astro-
122
nomical abilities with his simple transit instrument, gen-
erally known by Egyptologists as a "Merket".
We will proceed to an ancient day when one of the
Kings or Pharaohs of Egypt used his Merket to restore
the monument of his father. His name is King TUTEN-
KHAMON. In the year of 1923 A. D., King Tuten-
khamon's Tomb was opened by two investigators of
Egyptology. Their work and labors brought forth re-
markable and priceless treasures from this Pharoah's
Tomb. We will not go into any description of what
treasure was removed from this tomb. Our only object
is to bring to light a small instrument that was removed
from this tomb in a very mysterious manner. It was later
purchased in London by an American Investigator of
Egyptology. He at the time was not aware of the value
or the origin of this instrument. Eventually the instru-
ment revealed itself as the very transit or "Merket" that
King Tutenkhamon used to restore a monument to his
father (THUTMOSE IV) . This is one of the most
remarkable treasures ever recovered from ancient Egypt.
To the best of our knowledge this instrument has been
placed in the care of the Oriental Institute of the Uni-
versity of Chicago. This transit instrument or "Merket"
served the purpose of measuring the heavens and its mo-
tions at that distant age of Ancient Egyp.t. King Tuten-
khamon was highly learned in spiritual Astronomy as we
will reveal through this transit or "Merket". He having
wisdom and knowledge of the great sidereal zodiac based
on the four cardinal stars namely: Aldebaran, Altair,
Antares and Regulus the regulator of the square. Modern
Astronomy dare not boast of such Astronomical knowl-
edge. For he knows not the wherefore of this great si-
dereal Zodiac nor the true spiral direction of the Solar
System. He knows not of the true motion of the heavens
on which the sacred cubit derives its origin, which is
perfectly recorded in the great Pyramid. And also its
variable length when this Pharaoh lived is perfectly re-
corded in this transit or "Merket" which is evidence
enough, to silence they who would dare to criticize the
123
spiritual and Astronomical acomplishments of Ancient
Egypt's people.
This instrument is very simple indeed but will per-
form wonders for one who is spiritually attuned. It is
a rectangular strip of ebony wood. It has a thickness of
approximately one half inch. Width of approximately
one and one sixteenth of an inch, and length of ( 10.5
plus) approximately ten and one half inches. At one end
of the "Merket" there is a rectangular mortise hole, a
little over half an inch long, and about three sixteenths
of an inch wide. A scant one fourth of an inch deep.
This recessed hole contained a tenion which held a block
to which was attached a plummet. A vertical line is cut
in the edge of the ebony strip, exactly opposite to the
middle of the mortise hole.
There are inscriptions on this instrument along both
edges from end to end and reveals or reads: (stating it
was made with his own hands, as a restoration of a monu-
ment to his father (THUTMOSE IV) .
Recorded history states that King Tutenkhamon lived
approximately (3000) three thousand years ago. The
length of his "Merket" reveals the time when this Phar-
aoh lived. For its length corresponded to the perfect
length of the cubit when he oriented the monument to
his father, (THUTMOSE IV). It is just one half of
the cubit or a little over ten and one half of an inch.
During half of a great sidereal year the cubit varies or
accelerates in length from (21) twenty one inches to (22)
twenty two inches. Twenty two inches is the length of
the Sacred Cubit.
We divide the variability of one inch by one half of
a great sidereal years, which is 13,068 perfected years.
We have the result of .0000765228 inch variability per
one sidereal year.
T h e r e has elapsed approximately 11,000 sidereal
years since the erection of the great Pyramid. So we mul-
tiply .0000765228 inch of variability per sidereal year by
11,000 sidereal years. The result is (.8417508 plus 21)
plus 21 inches equals 21.8417508 inches. The approxi-
124
mate length of the cubit during the twentieth century is
therefore 21.8417508 inches. We multiply .0000765228
inch variability by 3000 ye a rs , the approximate time
elapsed since King Tutenkhamon lived and the result is
.2295684 inches of variability. We substract this result
from 21.8417508 inches, the variable length of the cubit
during the twentieth century, and we have the result of
21.6121824 inches, the approximate length of the cubit
when King Tutenkhamon lived. We next divide 21.-
6121824 inches by two or one half of the cubit, and we
have the result of 10.8060912 inches, or one half of the
cubit, the approximate length of King Tutenkhamon's
transit instrument or "Merket". Today this "Merket"
is a trifle over 10.5 plus inches. Allowing for shrinkage
of the ebony strip, it has apparently shrunk approximately
(.2) two tenths of an inch during a period of 3000 years.
The Taro cards, which derive their true origin in
Ancient Egypt, consist of (22) twenty two major cards
in correpsondence with the twenty two inches of the
Sacred Cubit. Sometimes the twenty first and twenty
second cards are confused and reversed. Strange as it
may seem the sixteenth card which is symbolized by the
lightning struck tower corresponds to the 16.5151515
magnetic feet, circular platform or capstone of the Pyra-
mid. This card actually symbolizes religious reforms at
the commencement of the Aquarian Age in accord with
the first woe of St. John's Revelations, when the beauti-
ful star Spica will rise over the circular platform of the
heavenly Pyramid. We have a perfect correspondence
to the Sacred Cubit in St. John's Revelations. It is in
the number of chapters, for there are (22) twenty two
chapters in this book of Revelations. Also the first book
of Kings, consists of 22 Chapters. St. John's Gospel and
the book of Judges contain 21 chapters, respectively.
The variabilitv of the cubit has been recorded in con-
formity with the -motions of the heavens throughout the
ages. It has been accomplished by what we may call in-
tuition or inspiration. It has b e e n perfectly recorded
through the master key to the mysteries of the Pyramid,
125
namely the "Silent Sphinx". In the beautiful library of
the City of Los Angeles, California, there are placed
on the banisters of the north stair entrance to the librari-
two reproductions of the Sphinx in miniature. A very
artistic and beautiful piece of work. Concealing a perfect
symbolism of the motions of the heavens, and reveals the
variable length of the sacred cubit.
The sphinx to the right as you face the north has a
book between the fore-paws. If we observe carefully we
see the hook is opened. Ten pages are turned to the left and
eleven pages are turned to the right, making a total of
( 21) twenty one pages or the equivalent of 21 inches, the
length of the cubit. Now this Sphinx is symbolical of
material activity or the overcoming of materiality. The
Sphinx to the left as we face the north also has a hook
opened between the fore-paws, but the number of pages
that are turned to the right are eleven and to the left are
eleven, making a total of twenty two pages. The equiva-
lent to ( 22) twenty two inches the length of the Sacred
Cubit. !\"ow this Sphinx symbolizes the mastership over
matter, and reveals spiritual attainment, which is per-
fectly in accord with the Christ teachings and the Scrip-
tures. Recorded in the great P yramid by the north exit
passage, which is symbolical of the entrance to the spirit-
ual realms at the end of the Aquarian Age. Revealed in
the starry heavens by the Mystic Pleiades of Taurus.
Just above the stair landing is a marvelous and beautiful
statue svmbolical of civilization, and it reveals the same
truths ~hich we just presented through the two Sphinxes.
In the left hand is grasped a staff which rests on the back
of a turtle and on the top of the staff a torch. This is
symbolical of materialit~· . or the struggles of the human
race. vVhile in the right hand is grasped an open book
on the pag:es of which is written (Truth) and (Beauty).
Analogus to spiritual attainment. The most important
mystery that surrounds these Sphinxes, statue and this
beautiful library is the orientation.
We must state they are perfectly oriented to the si-
lent Sphinx of Egypt, and through this key is revealed the
126
destiny of the City of Los Angel es. Its destiny i$ great,
for it is to become the Queen City of the earth during
the Aquarian Age. The Capitol of the Columbian Empire
which will be bounded on the east by the Rocky Moun-
tains and on the west by the Pacific Ocean. Cooperating
with Uncle Sam whose empire is bounded on the east by
the Atlantic Ocean and on the west by the Rocky Moun-
tains. A perfect unity of two Christian Empires under the
same Emblem the "Stars and Stripes Forever". Having
the faith in Jesus Christ and doing good works so the
Scriptures may be fulfilled. All that we have presented
is recorded in the great Pyramid of Egypt, symbolized in
the starry heavens, and concealed by the "Silent Sphinx"
the "Lotus of the Nile."
The exponents of this work wish for all who may
read this book, to perfectly understand ; we take no
credit whatsoever, for what is here expounded or revealed.
We are only the medium through which the spirit makes
itself manifest in the flesh . All that is presented has
previously been recorded and symbolized. Therefore we
are the humble servants to our fellowmen. Striving to
walk the path that leads to salvation.
For we read in the book of Mormon, 1st book of
Nephi, 13th chapter, 37th verse: "And blessed are they
who shall seek to bring forth my 'Zion' at that day, for
they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost,
and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up
at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting King-
dom of the lamb, whose shall publish peace, yea, tidings
of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains they shall
be."
Before returning to the equalization of more Pyramid
measurements we must do justice to the Padre of a church
in Royal Oak, Michigan. Just outside of the great city
of Detroit. During the sad days of the depression, when
our great Nation was on the brink of chaos and ruina-
tion, this Padre defied the powers that be for evil. We
may ask the question, Why ? Because he had faith in the
Christ teachings, the Scriptures and the Great American
127
Emblem. At all times during these days this Padre in
presenting his discourses over the radio net-work to his
ready listeners, which he knew he had, because we Ameri-
can people have not lost the faith in the Christ teachings
and the Scriptures. He always spoke in defense of the
World War Veterans. Not only those who came through
the war scathed and unscathed, but also those who had
passed beyond the borderland of physical death. For they
had given up the best that any man can do: their physi-
cal body in defense of the Christ teachings and the Great
American Emblem. This Padre even went so far as to
chastise vocally those who would dare to revile these
men. This Padre has always been on the alert and etern-
ally vigilant during those dangerous days, defending the
war veterans, true Americanism and speaking without
any fear wh~t he considered as the right and just things
to say. So long as he remains true to the Christ Teach-
ings, the veterans and the Great American Emblem, this
Parlre need not fear for the Holy Ghost is upon him,
;,;1d may he always remain truthfully and sincerely faith-
ful to the great American Emblem, "The Stars and
Stripes Forever." May the spirit of "Columbia" protect
and guide this Padre, the Reverend Charles E. Coughlin.
THE CONSTITUTION
\Ve must present a most beautiful poem dedicated to
the war veterans who died in defense of the American
Emblem during that great conflict of the World War.
This poem was written by Lieutenant Colonel John
McRae, the day previous to his death in this great conflict.
Following we present this beautiful poem:
IN FLANDERS FIELD
In Flanders Field, the poppies grow,
Between the crosses, row on row,
That mark our place, and in the sky,
The larks, still bravely singing, fly,
Scare heard by the guns below.
128
We are dead.
Short days ago, we lived, felt dawn ;
Saw sunset glow ;
Loved and were loved
And now we lie in Flanders Field.
Take up your quarrel with the foe,
To you from failing hands,
We throw the Torch!
Be yours to hold it high,
If you break faith with us, who die,
We shall not sleep.
Though poppies blow in Flanders Field.
Read this poem carefully for we are about to ask a
question or two, and let your conscience be your guide.
Have the people of the United States of America
kept the faith of these men who gave the best they had in
defense of the Great American Emblem?
From failing hands we throw the Torch, be yours
to hold it high; Have the people of America held the
Torch on High?
Have not the Veterans been violated and reviled even
unto high places in government?
Is there not a group of people in this nation that seek
to destroy the Constitution of the United States of
America?
Do we not have instructors in our institutions of
learning who foster seditious propaganda?
We say destroy such ignorant propaganda and chas-
tise those who may be guilty.
Rise to the true statehood of that great instrument
of government the Constitution of the United States of
America.
Carry on the good works of the forefathers who de-
vised and produced this remarkable instrument of govern-
ment, and citizens of America do not fail the War Veter-
ans. For woe unto the person who would revile these
men.
129
Again we say, read the poem carefully and let your
conscience be your guide.
For we read in St. John's Revelations, 1st Chapter,
3rd verse: "Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear
the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which
are written therein, for the time is at hand." 21st chap-
ter, 27th verse: "And there shall in no wise enter into
it anything that defileth, neither \\·hatsoever worketh
abomination, or maketh a lie, hut the\· which are written
in the Lamb's book of life." .
Fellow Citizens of America: the Constitution will
remain intact subject only to amendments as the fore-
fathers foresaw would be necessary as the Nation prog-
ressed; therefore made provisions for amendments as part
of this instrument of good Government. The Emblem
that represents this instrument of government, which is
in absolute conformit\' \\·ith the Christ teachings and the
Scriptures will unfu;l to the breezes to the end of the
Aquarian Age. For it is the promise as revealed by the
Christ Teachings, the Scriptures, perfectly recorded in
the great Pyramid and symbolized in the starry heavens.
Timed by the motions of the great sidereal heavens.
Before \ve proceed, the exponents wish it to be clearly
understood, we are not connected with no.r \Ye do not
favor an~· particular church or creed.
We are interested only in the Christ teachings, the
Scriptures and the welfare of the People of the United
States of America.
At all times must the spiritual and material welfare
of all war veterans who fought in defense of the great
American Emblem, since the days of General Washing-
ton or the foundation of the government of the United
States of America, be close to the hearts of the American
People. Also the predecessors who were instrumental in
bringing about the freedom and liberty of our Nation.
During the years since the commencement of the de-
pression, radicalism has become rampant throughout our
great Nation. Even unto the highest of legislative bodies
in the land, the Congress of the United States of America.
130
There has been so much talk of free speech and free
press. Possibly too much so.
This expression has often been heard by the exponents
of this work where radicalism prevailed: "The consti-
tution guarantees us free speech". This is an absolute
falsehood, for the constitution does not permit any one in
this nation free speech.
We will make it very clear as follows: In addition
to, an amendment of, the Constitution of the United
States of America, proposed by Congress, and ratified by
the Legislature of the several States pursuant to the fifth
article of the original Constitution. "Article One."
Congress shall make no law respecting an establish-
ment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,
or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or
the rights of the people peacably to assemble, and to
petition the government for a redress of grievances."
As we read this article "one" or amendment to the
original constitution, it would lead one to believe we have
free speech. So we have, but read the ninth article.
"The enumeration in the constitution of certain rights
shall not be construed to deny or disparge others retained
by the people. Therefore we have free speech only to
the extent of not denying or disparaging the certain rights
retained by the people.
It is about time the people of this great Nation read
this instrument of Government carefully and abide by it
likewise. For it is the salvation of our Nation, the United
States of America. We have today in our institutions of
learning, instructors or supposedly professors who would
teach the young manhood and womanhood of this nation
to refuse to bear arms or be instructed in military disci-
pline for the purpose of self defense and the safety and
peace of their nation. If this practice is not stopped im-
mediately, our nation will be brought into the most de-
structive war of all recorded history.
It is time these ignoramuses were dismissed from their
positions, who would foster such destructive learning.
131
The World War Veterans fought and died for free-
dom and liberty. Also all the other veterans of former
wars all the way down to the origin and foundation of
our gove rnment. "The Veterans have not died in vain."
Again we must state if the nation does not repent and
abide by the Christ Teachings and the Scriptures, woe,
for the dav is doge at hand when this nation will be in-
volved in the most terrific and tragic war of all recorded
history.
May the Nation repent and walk in the footsteps of
the Forefathers.
COMPOUNDING MEASUREMENTS
We will proceed to the equalization of more Pyramid
measurements.
We must return to the two granite plates suspended
on the south wall of the ante-chamber. They are one inch
off center of the granite block to which they are fastened.
This is to symbolize the variation of one inch to the cubit
during half of a great sidereal year.
The base of the side slope measures one inch likewise.
Symbolizing the same variation of the cubit of one inch
during half of a great sidereal year.
The granite leafs have a breadth of 5.1515151 mag-
netic inches.
5.1515151 ma~netic degrees is the equivalent of the
inclination of the Moon's orbit to the ecliptic.
The distance from the center of the granite leafs to
the eastern end of the granite block is 25.3939393 mag-
netic inches.
25.3939393 magnetic days is the equivalent of one
rotation of the Sun.
We proceed to the Queen's chamber and we learn that
the niche in the east wall is of the same distance from
vertical center, 25.3939393 magnetic inches. The equiva-
lent of the number of magnetic days for the Sun to com-
plete one rotation on its axis.
The two supposedly ventilator tubes to the Queen's
132
chamber were blocked for a distance of 5.1515151 mag-
netic inches.
5.1515151 magnetic degrees is the equivalent of the
Moon's orbit inclination to the ecliptic.
The height of the niche is 16.5151515 magnetic feet ,
the equivalent to the mean magnetic base of the capstone
of the great Pyramid.
16.5151515 magnetic degrees is the equivalent of the
Sun's mean magnetic limit on either side of the nodes.
The object of this niche is to reveal the key to all
the measurements of the great Pyramid in conformity
with the motions of the heavens.
We will proceed to the base of the Pyramid.
The mean diagonal of the base of the Pyramid is
1077.2727272 magnetic feet. This is a most remarkable
measurement. For it is the equivalent of 1077.2727272
magnetic miles, the semi-diameter of the moon.
1077.2727272 magnetic miles is the perfect mean mag-
netic semi-diameter of the Moon.
Here we are at quite a variance from .the measure-
ment accepted by present da~· telescopic astronomers.
They profess to have measured the l\1oon very accurately,
and its semi-diameter would be 1081 mean miles. Now
magnetic miles extend beyond the solid surface of the
satellite. For illustration the mean magnetic circumfer-
ence of the earth is 26,136 magnetic miles; while its
mean surface circumference is 24,881 mean miles at the
equator.
We will proceed up above the King's chamber into
the upper most construction chamber and take close obser-
vation of the granite beams that form the floor. We ob-
serve they are very uneven and curved or bulged. The
fourth beam from the east wall has a bulge or protrusion
much higher than the rest of the beams. We wonder as
to why this is. Surely there is a reason for it being so.
This point determines and is on the direct magnetic
center of the great pyramid.
It seems as if the great master Architect did not over-
look anything in the erection of this marvelous structure.
133
If we were to drop an imaginary plumb line from this
point to the floor of the King's chamber, and measure off
both ways, we would have ten linear feet to the west and
7 linear feet to the east of this plumb line, and by conver-
sion into magnetics, the measurement to the west would
be the equivalent of 10.3030303 magnetic degrees, the
equivalent to the Moon's total orbit inclination to the
plane of the ecliptic.
The measurement to the east of this point would be
the equivalent to 7.1515151 magnetic days or one per-
fected lunar week.
We will proceed down into the subterranean chamber
once more and produce more astronomical measurements.
We multiply or cube the height, width and length of
the subterranean chamber, 46x27x10.5=13041.0
Here we have a small discrepancy, for the true cubic
contents of the sub-chamber is 13,068 cubic feet. By con-
version it is the equivalent of one half of a great sidereal
year.
Before we proceed, we must make it clearly under-
stood that the number five and seven are the most promi-
nent of all measurements in the great Pyramid, and the
only numbers in the gamut of the numerical scale, that
will not divide perfectly the great sidereal year of 26, 136.
We divide 13,068 by 26,136 and the mults is .05
Now five or .05 is one of the key numbers of the great
Pyramid.
We multiply 46 feet by 12 inches and divide by 22
inches the perfect cubit, and the result is 25.09090909.
This number is the equivalent of the approximate mag-
netic number of days required for the sun to make one
complete rotation on its axis.
We multiply 27 feet by 12 inches and divide by 22
inches, the length of the cubit, and the result is 14.-
7272727 cubits. Now 14.7272727 magnetic days is the
approximate equivalent of two magnetic weeks.
We multiply 10.5 feet by 12 inches and divide by 22
inches the length of the cubit, and the result is 5.7272727
cubits. Now 5.7272727 magnetic degrees is the approxi-
134
mate equivalent to the Moon's orbit magnetic departure
from the ecliptic.
We add these three cubit measurements, and the re-
sult is 45.5454545 cubits. We multiply this number by
two and the result is the equivalent of the approximate
number of degrees in the quadrant of a circle consisting
of 366 degrees, which is 91.09090909 degrees.
We divide the circle of 366 by four, the number of
quadrants in a circle and the result is 91.5 degrees; the
correct number of degrees per quadrant. Now 90.75 de-
grees is the mean number of degrees per quadrant of a
perfected circle of 363 degrees. So we divide 13,068 the
cubic contents of the sub-chamber by 90.75 perfected de-
grees, and we have the result of 144. Now this a re-
markable result of simple division, which reveals perfected
astronomy.
There are 144 hours of variation between the opposite
cardinal stars Regulus and Altair. There are 144 square
inches in one square foot.
Our reason for presenting this measurement is to
illustrate, all measurements are in conformity with the
motions of the heavens.
There are 1440 minutes in a perfected sidereal day.
We divide 13,068 by 363 and the result is equivalent
to the number of overlaps in the ceiling of the Grand
Gallery, which are 36 overlaps.
We multiply 36 by the number of slopes to the great
Pyramid, which is (4) four, and the result is 144. The
equivalent of the number we have just dealt with.
Now, we multiply 13,068 bv the number of slopes,
and we have the result of 52,272. We point off three
numerals of this number and we have 52.272, the mean
number of weeks per sidereal year.
Next we will present a very remarkable procedure of
simple multiplication, that will reveal the mean distance
of the earth from the Sun.
Two times 13,068 equals 26,136. We multiply 26,136
by the number five, and the result is 130,680. Next we
multiply 130,680 by seven, and the result is 914,760.
135
Observe we have used the two numbers in multiply-
ing the great sidereal year, that will not divide it per-
fectly, namely 5 and 7. Now 914,760 does not signify any
particular astronomical equation, but suppose we elevate
ourselves to the King's chamber and count the granite
blocks with which it is lined.
We count exactly ( 100) one hundred blocks of
granite. So we increase the number 91 +.760 by the power
of ( 100) one hundred and we have the marvelous result
of 91,476,000; which is the equivalent in miles of the
earth's mean distance from the Sun.
Such is the astronomy compounded in the great P yra-
mid of Egypt.
Suppose we follow the same procedure, by using the
magnetic height of the Pyramid , and learn what our re-
sult will be.
We multiply the magnetic height of +8+ magnetic feet
by five, and the result is 2,420. Next, we multiply this
number bv seven. and the result is 16,940. Then we in-
crease thi~ number by the power of one hundred and we
will have the remarkable result that is eriui..-alrnt to the
length of the Moon's orbit, which is l ,6q+,OOO magnetic
miles.
Next \\·e take the elevation number of the base above
the sub-chamber floor level line, " ·hich is 102 magnetic
feet, and mutiply it by the pO\\·er of five, then seven and
two times the power of ( 100) one hundred. The result
is 35,700,000. which is the equivalent of the approximate
mean distance in magnetic miles of the planet M ercury
from the Sun.
We will next divide the number of the great sidereal
year ( 26,136) by the distance from the ma.gnetic center
to the apex, or the distance from the magnetic center to
the subtrrranran chamber floor level. \\·hich is 2+2 mag-
netic feet. We have the result of 108. The diameter of
the Sun is exacth· I08 times the diameter of the earth.
So we multiply the magnetic diameter of the earth (8,-
2q3 .1674) b\· 108. and we have the result of 895.662.-
0792 magnetic miles, the diameter of the Sun.
136
We divide this magic number (26,136) by the mag-
netic height of the great Pyramid, which is 484 magnetic
feet, and the result is 54. Now (54) fifty four times
the semi-diameter of the earth is equal to the semi-diame-
ter of the Sun, which is 447831.0386 magnetic miles.
The magnetic circumference of the Sun is approxi-
mately 2,813,811.988 magnetic miles.
The density of the planet Jupiter is 0.242 relative
to the ratio of the earth as one ( 1), equivalent to the
magnetic center of the Pyramid which is 242 magnetic
feet.
We will next divide the magic number (26,136) by
the number of degrees per sign of the perfected circle.
We have the result of 792. Now 792 feet is the equiva-
lent of the mean socket base line. We multiply 792 by 4;
the number of slopes or sides to the Pyramid, and we have
the result of 3,168. 3,168 miles equals the approximate
diameter of the planet Mercury.
792 miles is the approximate equivalent of one quarter
of the diameter of the planet Mercury.
There are 203 steps from the base to the apex of
the great Pyramid. We multiply 203 by 5 and its result
by 7. Then we increase this result by the power of 100,
and then half of the power of 100, which is 50; and we
have the result of 35,525,000. 35,525,000 miles is the
equivalent of the mean distance of the planet Mercury
from the Sun. The approximate circumference of the
planet Mercury is 9,952.55712 miles.
We divide the magic number (26, 136) by (203),
and we have the result of 128.7487684. We multiply this
number by twice the power of ( 100); and we have the
result of 1,287,487.684. This number is the equivalent
of the Sun's volume relative to the ratio of the earth's
volume being (one).
0.1287487 is the equivalent of the comparative density
of the planet Saturn relative to the ratio of the earth as
(one).
The diameter of the earth's axis is calculated to be
500,500,500 British inches. We will proceed to divide
137
this number of inches by the length of the sacred cubit
of 22 inches. The result is 22,750,022.72. Next we mul-
tiply this result by the number of slopes or sides to the
great Pyramid, and we have the remarkable result of 91 ,-
000,090.90. This is the approximate nearest distance of
the earth to the Sun in miles.
The exponents of this work calculate the mean mag-
netic distance of the earth from the Sun to be 9! .+76.000
miles. We divide this number by four, and the result
will be 22,869,000. We multiply this number by the
length of the sacred cubit (22) inches, and the result is
503,118,000. The equivalent in inches to the magnetic
length of the earth's axis.
Its equivalent in miles is 7,940.6 plus miles.
Magnetic measurements should not be confused with
mean measurements. The former is related to etheric dis-
turbances and the latter to solids, or substances.
We will now divide the magic number ( 26,l 36) by
the number of slopes or sides of the great Pyramid, and
the result is 6,534. Now 6,534 magnetic years is the
equivalent of each cycle of civilization that is attuned
to one of the four cardinal stars.
This present cycle is attuned to the cardinal star Al-
tair in the constellation of Aquilla, the Eagle.
The last cycle of civilization was attuned to the
cardinal star Aldebaran, and terminated at the time of
the flood.
The next cycle, following the present one will be at-
tuned to the fierv star Antares; the southern cardinal
star on the heart ~f the Scorpion.
When the great P yramid was built approximately
11 ,000 years ago; that particular cycle of civilization was
attuned to the regulator of the sidereal square ; namely
the great star Regulus on the heart of the lion " Leo."
The northeast corner of the Pyramid is set directly on
the corner of this socket stone, indicating the time of its
erection or construction. This socket stone corresponds to
the gospel of St. Mark, and in the heavens, it corresponds
to the cardinal star in the west angle of the great sidereal
138
square. The imprint of the earthly Pyramid must be re-
versed to conform to the heavenly Pyramid.
We multiply 6,534 by two times the power of ( 100)
one hundred, the number of granite blocks in the King's
chamber, and we have the result of 65,534,000.
65,534,000 magnetic miles is the equivalent to the
mean distance of the planet Venus from the Sun.
Next we divide the magic number (26,136) by 140
the distance in magnetic feet from the base to the mag-
netic center, and the result is 186.685. We multiply this
number by one tenth of the power of ( 100) , and the re-
sult is 1,866.85. The equivalent of one quarter of the
diameter of the planet Venus. We multiply the latter
by (4) four, the number of slopes, and the result is
7,467.4.
Now 7,467.4 magnetic miles is the equivalent to the
magnetic diameter of the planet Venus.
We will now present a strange and remarkable for-
mula of astronomy.
We divide the perfected circle of 363 degrees into
quadrants, and the result is 90.75 degrees. Next we
square the number (90.75), and the result is 8,235.5625.
This is the approximate diameter of the earth. Let's mul-
tiply this number by the magnetic height of the great step
step at the head of the Grand Gallery, which is 3.1515151
magnetic feet. We have a result of 25,954.4995757.
This number converted into miles is equivalent to the ap-
proximate circumference of the earth. The strange and
remarkable part of this astronomical precedure we will
now present.
From the magic number (26136) the equivalent to
the number of perfected years in a great sidereal year,
and also the equivalent in magnetic miles to the magnetic
circumference of the earth, we subtract the number 25,-
954.49, and we have the remarkable and strange result
of 181.5. Now ( 181.5) magnetic miles is the equivalent
to the distance from the earth to its magnetic circum-
ference. At 181.5 miles distant from the earth we arrive
at a perfect stratosphere.
139
If it were possible for aviation to be able to develop
a machine that would elevate itself to such a height, the
earth would pass from beneath at the teriffic rate of ap-
proximately ( 18) miles per minute. That would be a
remarkable accomplishment for aviation, but is borders
too close to fantas\' than actual realitL
Next we conv.ert this number in.to degrees, and we
have the perfect number of degrees in one half of the
perfected circle. T\vice 181.5 equals 363 degrees, the
equivalent to the number of degrees in the perfected circle.
Each side of the great Pyramid is the equivalent to
6,534- sidereal years. We multiply this number by one
tenth of ( I00), and we have the result of 65.340. We
convert this number into miles and we have the equiva-
lent of the earth's mean velocity in magnetic miles per
hour. We multiply the number (6,534) by the number
(5) five and we have the result of 32,670. We convert
this number into miles, and we have the equivalent of the
diameter of the planet Uranus.
Such is the astronomy concealed or compounded in
the great Pyramid of Egypt.
CONCLUSION
Will modern science ever conceive of this perfect
symbol of Astronomy, left by an ancient civilization, for
future posterity?
The Christ teachings and the Scriptures reveal, that
day will come to pass.
Have faith in Jesus Christ, the Son of God, do good
works, or walk in Christ, and this great symbolical mys-
tery will be revealed.
The exponents of this work have only attempted to
reveal the key to this ancient mystery of Egypt, the
"Flower of the Nile".
No <loubt, there are some errors or mistakes in
this work. We do not profess to be perfect, far from so.
We strive for the Truth and Perfection, knowing that
the flesh is weak.
We have to the best of our abilities presented this
work in such a manner, that it may be readily understood.
140
There is none of the so-called higher mathematics em-
ployed in arriving at results. We have only used the sim-
ple mathematics of addition, subtraction, multiplication
and division, to produce the results presented in this work.
According to the Christ teachings, mysteries are al-
ways presented in a simple manner.
We are satisfied that we have unravelled many of
the mysteries of the great Pyramid in this work.
We are satisfied that in this work is presented for
the first time the true key to the unfoldment of this astro-
nomical and Scriptural Symbol.
Again the exponents wish to make it readily clear;
what is presented in this work is due to our faith in the
Christ teachings and the Scriptures. Otherwise we would
have stumbled and been caught in a snare.
For we read in the book of Isaiah, 8th chapter, 14th
verse: "And he shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone
of stumbling and for a rock to offence to both the houses
of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of
Jerusalem," 15th verse: "And many among them shall
stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be
taken."
We will proceed to present a few more astronomical
equations of the great Pyramid.
\Ve convert the magnetic height of 484 feet into
cubits, and we have the sum of 264 cubits, for the mag-
netic height of the Pyramid.
We divide the magic number (26,136) by (264) two
hundred and sixty-four; and we have the remarkable re-
sult of (99) ninety-nine. We present this problem as a
strange co-incidence.
Leases are lawful for 99 years.
We subtract 99 from 100 the number of blocks in the
King's chamber and we have the strange result of (one).
One inch is the length of variability in the cubit dur-
ing half of a great sidereal year.
We multiply 264 by the number of beams in the
ceiling of the King's chamber; or what is known as the
universal number by the Kabbalist or numerologist ; the
141
number nine, and the results is 2,376. There are 2,376
years per sign of the perfected solar Zodiac.
We will present another strange problem. We divide
the number (2,376) by 2; and we have the remarkable
result of 1188.
The earth receives one inch of displacement, relative to
the cardinal points every ( 1188) sidereal years. One
thousand one hundred and eighty-eight miles is also the
diameter of the earth's invisible satellite, named "Lilith",
by the Astrologers. It makes a complete revolution of its
orbit in eleven days.
Mercurv makes one revolution of its orhit in 88 da1
·s.
The ma.gnetic center of the Pyramid is 242 feet ab~ve
the sub-chamber floor level, or 242 feet below the apex.
We convert this distance into cubits, and we have the
sum of 132 cubits for the magnetic center.
We multiply 132 by the universal number (9) nine;
and we have the strange result of ( 1188) .
Next we convert the elevation of the queen's chamber
into cubits, and we have the result of 36.6. If we drop
the decimal point, we have the perfect number of days
per sidereal year at the end of the Aquarian age; when
the Queen's chamber is entered as we previously ex-
plained.
Suppose we return to the outside of the Pyramid and
measure its base. We learn that the mean magnetic base
length is 757.5757575 magnetic feet. \Ve multiply this
number by the number of slopes or sides and we have the
remarkable result of 3,030.3030303.
Now 3,030.3030303 is the equivalent in miles to the
mean magnetic diameter of the planet Mercury. We shift
the decimal point to the left, two numerals, and we have
the equivalent in days to a magnetic sidereal solar month.
We shift the decimal point to the left beyond one more
numeral; and we have the equivalent in magnetic degrees
of earth shift during one great sidereal year.
The mean magnetic slope slant length is 726 mag-
netic feet. We divide this number by two and we have
the remarkable result of 363. The equivalent of the
142
number of days in a perfect sidereal year, or the number
of degrees in a perfected circle. If we extend the mag-
netic center line to the s u r f ace of the Pyramid and
measure to the apex and sub-chamber level line along
the slope; we have exactly 363 magnetic feet in either di-
rection.
Such is the astronomy recorded in the great Pyramid
of Egypt. A perfect symbol of religion and astronomy.
The key we have presented is the great sidereal year
of 26, 136 perfected years, and the perfected circle of
363 degrees.
We are prompted to ask a question before bringing
this work to a close. "Does anyone know how to square
the circle?"
There are 363 degrees in a perfected circle. There
are 181.5 degrees in half a circle and 90.75 degrees in
one quadrant.
Can you square the circle with 360 degrees?
There is no doubt, but this work reveals for the first
time the true key to the great Pyramid of Egypt.
The key to this religious and astronomical monument
is concealed and perfectly recorded in the "Silent Sphinx",
"The Lotus of the Nile."
The greatest of all monuments on the face of the
earth. Oriented in such a manner that whosoever may
possess the key may read the stellar script in God's Sub-
lime Universe.
"Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades;
or loose the bands of Orion ?"
"Knowest thou the Seven Stars and Orion?"
143
