{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__myers___the_experiences_of_rev_w_stainton_moses.pdf","mytitle":"The Experiences Of Rev W Stainton Moses","mylang":"de"}
THE
EXPERIENCES
OF RE‘LW
STAINTON-
MOSES.
EWHMYERS.
~
From "THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH."
-2:-it-éé-té’k-l: ***%**%***%%%1~*%%**%*%*%**
Classified and Bound By
C.A.GEORGE NEWMANN
Minneapolis,minn.Jan l,
1 9 3 6 .
C O N T E N T S
1 Experiences of W.Stainton-Moses.
Quotations from nis "
Researches
in spiritualism.
rerfumes & Waves of Scent-laden Air.
-Statement by Mr. PerciVal - State
ment by Dr. Speer - Automatic wri
ting with illustrations.
5 Data re-Daniel Dunglas Home the
famous American Medium. neference
to the equally famous Mrs. Guppy.
4 More About Daniel Dunglas nome and
His Phenomena.
5 Collective nallucinations scien
tifically considered -
6 aupplement - A Review of the noted
study of alves, Fauns, and Fairies.
N)
COLLECTOR'S NOTE:- This book is note
worthy in that it tells the truth
about the Rev. Stainton-Moses without
fear of favor and at the same time
gives us a splendid picture of the per
formances of the most noted mediums of
that period.
The work whould be read with care
and due thought be given to every
statement therein in order to under
stand why people of assured position
sometimes stopp to harmless chicanery
in matters considered “supernatural.”
125 pages ----- four half tone cuts
Many line illustrations.
1
II,
I
.
The-Experiences of W. Stain-ton Moses. 245
If I 5' Z. 3
'Mﬁﬁe
II.
THE EXPERIENCES OF W. STAINTON-MOSES.—I.
BY FREDERIC W. H. MrsRs.
Mr. William Stainton Moses, who departed this life on September 5th,
1892, entrusted by will his unpublished manuscripts to two friends as
literary executors—viz., Mr. Charles Carleton Massey, barrister-at-law,
and Mr. Alaric A. Watts, late one of the Assistant Secretaries to the
Board of Inland Revenue. These gentlemen, at my earnest request,
have permitted me to undertake the task of selecting passages from
the MSS. of our common friend, which passages they allow to be
printed in the ﬁrst instance in the Proceedings of the S.I’.R. In an
obituary notice of Mr. Moses, already published in Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., p. 597 (and to which I would beg to refer my readers), I
have indicated the reasons which have for nearly twenty years led me
to attach high importance to these records of his phenomena, and to
desire earnestly that they should be placed before the public in sufﬁcient
detail to enable them to be rightly appreciated. Mr. Moses himself
was for a long time averse to any full publication of the documents,
which do, indeed, contain much matter of a private and personal nature.
But in his later years his view changed; he had himself begun (in
1892) to publish them in Light, and his statements to intimate friends
leave no doubt that this posthumous publication (with certain reserves
to be mentioned hereafter) of the essential part of his records is in
accordance with what would have been his own desire, as it is the desire
of his trusted executors.
The materials here available for the exposition of Mr. Moses’
unique experiences are of four kinds—viz. :
(1) his own printed
works ; (2) his MS. remains ; (3) the written and printed statements
of witnesses to his phenomena, and (4) oral intercourse with himself
3 and other friends.
1. Among his printed works the most important for our present
purpose are—
l. Researches in Spiritualism. This unﬁnished work was pub
lished in Human Nature—a periodical now extinct—in
1874-5, and not reprinted. It is now difﬁcult of access.
2. Spirit Identity, published in 1879. This work also has been
for some years out of print.
52.2525
Ln»
Jun]
148
YLLM)
m
246 .Mr. F. W. H. llfyers.
3. Spirit Teachings, published in 1883, is also at present out of
print ,' but a new edition, with a biography by l\Ir.
Charlton Speer, is now in preparation.
Two other volumes, Psychograph-y and Higher Aspects of
Spiritualism, contain little which bears on our present
theme.
Besides these books, Mr. Moses wrote much in the weekly
periodical Light, of which he was for some years the editor.
II. Mr. Moses’ MSS. entrusted to me, and of which I have made
'use, consist of thirty-one note-books, ranging frOm September, 1872, to
March, 1883, and various letters.
The note-books may be divided as follows ;—
Twenty-four books of automatic script, numbered 1-24, and
extending from March, 1873, to March, 1883.
Four books of records of physical phenomena, September, 1872—
-January, 1875. These books run concurrently with the books of auto
matic script. The ﬁrst book of this series (April-September, 1872) is
missing. Those which remain I have numbered 2 B, 3 B, 4 B, and 5 B.
Three books of retrospect and summary, which I number 25, 26,
.27. Books 25 and 26 recapitulate physical phenomena, with reﬂections.
Book 27 is entitled The Identity of Spirit, and contains, in briefer form,
much of the evidence ﬁrst printed in Spirit Identity; which work,
indeed, this later tractate may have been intended to supersede. Some
of the letters also are of value, but mainly as adding contemporary con
ﬁrmation to facts already to be found in the note-books.
III. Among the records made by friends the most important are
Mrs. Stanhope Speer’s “ Records of Private Séances, from notes taken at
‘the time of each sitting.” Over sixty instalments of these records have
now (October, 1893) been published in Light. They begin in 1872,
and go down to l881—considerably beyond the date (1875) at which
Mr. Moses’ extant records of physical phenomena obtained in his
.séances cease. As will be seen later on, these independent and con
temporary records are evidentially of capital importance. Dr. and hirs.
Stanhope Speer were Mr. Moses’ most intimate friends ; and they, often ‘
with another intimate friend, Mr. F. W. Percival (Barrister-at-Law
and Examiner in the Education Department), were theuh‘abitual mem
bers, and generally_the only members,_o§ the smalrgroup who witnessed
mattresses}; about beidescribe'd. .
Wacmif'ﬂie‘iiié'mTspeer, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and. Dr.
'Thomson, and the late Mr. Serjeant Cox have at different times
printed short ﬁrst-hand records of certain of Mr. Moses’ phenomena,
and Mrs. Garratt and Miss Birkett took some contemporary notes of
sittings at which they were present. ;
Two note-books and other MSS. by Dr. Speer have been placed in
The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses. 2&7
my hands, and contain independent contemporary records of much:
evidential value.
IV. In estimating the evidential value of oral intercourse as to Mr.
Moses’ phenomena, the character of my own friendship for him is an
item on which I am bound to be explicit. Friendship it might truly
be called, for it was based upon a consciousness of common pur—
suits of great moment, and I felt for him much both of gratitude and
0f esteem. He responded to my unfeigned interest with a straight
forward intimacy of conversation on the experiences of which I cared so
much to learn. But there was no such close personal attraction as is
likely to prompt me to partiality as a biographer ,' and, indeed, both.
Edmund Gurney and I were conscious in him of something like the
impatience of a schoolmaster towards slow students ,'—natural enough
in a man whose inborn gifts have carried him irresistibly to a con
viction on the edge of which less favoured persons must needs pause
and ponder long. I am bound to add that the study of his note-r
books, by making him more intimately known to me as he was in his
best days, has brought me nearer to the warm and even enthusiastic
estimate implied in the letters of various more intimate friends of his
which lie before me.
More important, however, than the precise degree of attractiveness,
or of spiritual reﬁnement, in Mr. Moses’ personal demeanour are the
fundamental questions of sanity and probity. On these points neither
I myself, nor, so far as I know, any person acquainted with Mr. Moses,
has ever entertained any doubt. “ However perplexed for an explana
tion,” says Mr. Massey, “the crassest prejudice has recoiled from ever
suggesting a doubt of the truth and honesty of Stainton Moses.”
“I believe that he was wholly incapable of deceit,” writes Mr. H. J.
Hood, barrister-at law, who knew him for many years. The people
who assumed that he must somehow have performed the phenomena.
of his dark séances himself ,'—who asked, triumphantly, “ Where was
Moses when the candle went 0ut’l”—even these never, so far as I
know, suggested anything beyond unconscious fraud in a trance-
condition.
A brief record of Mr. Moses’ life, with some estimates of the work
done by him in ordinary professional capacities, will help the reader to
form something of a personal judgment on his character.
On the events of his life the Speer family, who were his most,
intimate friends, and are well acquainted with his nearest surviving
relatives, are my main authority. Their importance as witnesses of the
phenomena is so great that I must be pardoned for inserting a.
“testimonial” to the late Dr. Speer (M.D. Edinburgh); which shall
not, however, be in' my own words, but in those of Dr. Marshall
Hall, F.R.S., one of the best known physicians of the middle of this -
248 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
century. Writing on March 18th, 1849, Dr. Marshall Hall says (in a
printed collection of similar testimonials now before me):
“ I have
great satisfaction in bearing my testimony to the talents and acquire
ments of Dr. Stanhope Templeman Speer. Dr. Speer has had unusual
advantages in having been at the Medical Schools, not only of London
and Edinburgh, but of Paris and Montpellier, and he has availed
himself of these advantages with extraordinary diligence and talent.
He ranks among our most distinguished rising physicians.”
Dr. Speer held at different times various hospital posts of credit,
and was much valued as a practising physician at Cheltenham and in
London. The work of a physician, however, was rendered somewhat
trying to him by an over-anxious temperament; and as he possessed
private means, and had strong scientiﬁc and artistic tastes, he quitted
his profession at thirty-four, and preferred to spend the latter part of
his life in studious retirement. Dr. Speer’s cast of mind was strongly
materialistic, and it is remarkable that his interest in Mr. Moses’
phenomena was from ﬁrst to last of a purely scientiﬁc, as contrasted
with an emotional or a religious, nature.
I regret that I never met Dr. Speer, who died in 1889. His
widow, Mrs. Stanhope Speer, is well known to me ,' and I regard her as
an excellent witness. Her son, Mr. Charlton T. Speer (also an
excellent witness) is an Associate of the Royal Academy of Music, and
is well known in musical circles as a successful composer and performer.
With these words of preface I pass on to the facts—simple and
ordinary enough in their external aspect—of Mr. Moses’ life.
William Stainton Moses was born in Lincolnshire, November 5th,
1839. His father had been headmaster of a grammar-school at
Donington, near Lincoln. His mother’s family name was Stainton. -Mr.
Stainton Moses believed that the name Moses had been originally
Mostyn, but that an ancestor had changed it in order to avoid some
peril in the time of the Commonwealth. There seems no reason
to suppose that the family, which had been for some time settled
in Lincolnshire, was of Jewish descent. Mrs. Moses—still living
and vigorous (1893) at the age of ninety-one—was a serious and‘
intelligent woman, and brought up her only son with pious care. He
showed ability; and the family moved to Bedford, about 1852, that
he might have the advantage of education at Bedford College. There
he did well, and in due time gained a scholarship at Exeter College,
Oxford. In his school days he occasionally walked in his sleep, and on
one occasion his mother saw him go down into the sitting-room and
write an essay on a subject which had puzzled him on the previous
evening, and return to bed without awaking. The essay thus written
was the best of those sent up by the class that day (Mr. Moses
tells us), and was fully up to the level of his waking performances.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 249
This is the only incident of which I have heard which in any way
foreshadowed his future gift. He is not recorded as having been a
specially nervous or excitable child ; and he was at this time strong
and healthy. In after life his health was bad ; but his troubles were
mainly respiratory—constantly recurring catarrh and bronchitis—~until
near the end of his life, when he was attacked by Bright’s disease,
which ultimately caused his death. His phenomena, it may be observed,
were at their best when he was inmest health, and declined or
di‘sappearedraltoo'et
r
I
“TbTé‘Edilifto his Oxford career. At Oxford he was an ambitious
and hard-working, but not in other ways a very noticeable, under
graduate. His health broke down from overwork, and he left Oxford
without taking a degree, and spent some considerable time in travel,
mainly with friends, but in part alone. He was already much
interested in theology, and he lived for some six months (none of these
dates are very precise) in a monastery on Mount Athos. Beyond the
mere fact of his residence on Mount Athos, to which his surviving
friends testify, all that is known of this period of seclusion consists
of allusions made by his “spirit guides,” who say that they directed
him thither that he might study the Eastern Church, and be prepared
by a comparison of theologies for the reception of a. wider truth. Be
this as it may, he recovered his health, returned to Oxford, took his
degree, was ordained by Bishop Wilberforce, and accepted a curacy at
Kirk Maughold, near Ramsey, in the Isle of Man, at the age of twenty
four. He was an active parish clergyman, liked by his parishioners, and
holding Anglican views of an ordinary type. On the occasion of an
outbreak of small-pox he distinguished himself by his zeal and kindness ;
and it is recorded that in one case he helped to nurse and to bury a
man whose malady was so violent that it was hard to get anyone to
approach him. During this period also he began to write for periodi
cals, Punch and the Saturday Review being specially mentioned. The
memorial verses to the Rev. F. D. Maurice which appeared in Punch
have since been quoted as of Mr. Moses’ writing; and I should conceive
that his other contributions were probably in this serious strain. He
continued to write much, anonymously, for various periodicals during
many years of his life, and showed an easy style and a good deal of
miscellaneous knowledge.
After some four years of residence near Ramsey, he accepted the
curacy of St. George’s, Douglas, Isle of Man. Here also he was
esteemed as an active clergyman, and admired as a preacher. In April,
1869, he had a serious illness, and hearing that Dr. Speer, whom he
knew slightly, was in the island on a holiday, he called in his medical
aid. Dr. Speer brought him successfully through his illness, and
invited him as a convalescent to the house which he was renting in the
250 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
island. The foundations of a life-long friendship with Dr. and Mrs.
Speer were then laid. '
In 1870 he took a curacy somewhere in Dorsetshire, where also he
was liked, and was appointed
“ Lent preacher
”
for the county. A very
severe attack of hooping-cough obliged him to interrupt his parish
work, which, in fact, he never resumed. Dr. Speer invited him to
become his son’s tutor, and for seven years he ﬁlled that oﬂice in a way
which attached to him both parents and pupil more closely than ever.
In 1871 he was offered a mastership in University College School ; and
this post he held until failing health compelled him to resign it some
three years before his death.' The physical phenomena about to be
described began in 1872, and continued with gradually lessening
frequency until 1881. The automatic script began in 1873, and ﬁnally
died out, so far as we know, in 1883. During these later years
Mr. Moses was active in contributing to, and afterwards in editing, the
weekly newspaper Light; and he took a leading part in several
spiritistic organisations. Of one of these—the London Spiritualist
Alliance—he was president at the time of his death. In 1882 he aided
in the foundation of the Society for Psychical Research ; but he left that
body in 1886, on account of its attitude towards Spiritualism, which
he regarded as unduly critical. It is worth remarking that although,
as the fact of his withdrawal shows, many members of the Society held
an intellectual position widely differing from that of Mr. Moses, and
although his own published records were of a kind not easily credible,
no suspicion as to his personal probity and veracity was ever, so far as
I know, either expressed or entertained.
Mr. Moses’ health became steadily weaker. He suffered greatly from
suppressed gout, in addition to other ailments. A serious fall from
the top of an omnibus made matters worse. In 1890 he was attacked
by inﬂuenza in the severest form, and was reckoned, I believe, to have
had twelve separate relapses or recurrences of that complaint. An
accident to his eyes also gave him much trouble. He worked on, as
best he could, to the last 5 but the period of decline was tedious and
distressing ; and it would be very unfair to judge him from the
utterances of thesé‘iastyears.» When in September, 1892, he passed
from earth, we Yn-a'yrsurely trust that his achievements here had won
their way to promotion, and his suﬁ'erings to repose.
Mr. Moses never married, and went very little into general society.
His personal appearance offered no indication of his peculiar gift.
He was of middle stature, strongly made, with somewhat heavy
features, and thick dark hair and beard. The accompanying photo
graph (reproduced from Light by the kind permission of Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers) shows his face as his body lay in death. His expression of
countenance was honest, manly, and resolute. Many testimonies of
.552
magmas
wamoz
zoaiﬁv.
.s
a:
I
“wwstwwx
\
The Experiences‘of W. Stainton Moses. 251
affection and esteem appeared in Light and elsewhere after his decease ;
especially, of course, from those to whom his experiences and teachings
had brought a convincing hope. I subjoin a few letters from friends
who had good opportunities of estimating his value in the common
duties and intercourse of life.
Dr. Johnson, of Bedford, writes to me as follows :—
“ 68, High-street, Bedford.
“ March 24th, 1893.
“DEAR. SIR,—As the intimate friend and medical adviser of the late
Stainton Moses I have had ample opportunities of thoroughly knowing his
character and his mental state.
“ He was a man even in temper, painstaking and methodical, of excep
tional ability, and utterly free from any hallucination or anything to indicate
other than a well-ordered brain.
“ He was a ﬁrm believer in all that he uttered or wrote about matters of a
spiritual nature, and he impressed me—and, I believe, most others he came in
contact with—with the genuineness of his convictions and a ﬁrm belief not:
only that he believed in the statements he had made and written, but that
they were the outcome of a mind which had given itself up entirely to the
study of a subject which he considered of essential value and importance
to the welfare of his fellow men.
“ I have attended him in several very severe illnesses, but never, in sick
ness or at other times, has his brain shown the slightest cloudiness or suffered.
from any delusion. I not only consider that he believed what he stated, but
I think that those who knew him best would not for an instant doubt that alh
he stated were facts and words of truth—Sincerely yours,
“ WM. G. JOHNSON."
In another letter Dr. Johnson says :—
“ He was a most lovable character ; kind and generous in his every action ;:
and with a fund of information on most subjects which made him a most
welcome guest.”
Dr. Eve, headmaster of University College School, writes as follows
to Professor Sidgwick :—
“ University College School, Gower-street, London, W.C.
“ March 18th, 1893.
“ MY DEAR SIDGWICK,—Stainton Moses was an excellent colleague. He: _
conﬁned himself entirely to English; in that subject he took classes in all.
parts of the school, and his work was always well and methodically done.
He taught essay-writing well, and was very skilful in appreciating the relativee
value of boys' essays, which is not easy. He was much looked up to by boys,.
and had considerable inﬂuence over them. On general points connected.
with the management of the school he was one of the colleagues to whom I
most naturally turned for advice, and I have every reason to be grateful to
hi1n.—-Yours very sincerely, “ H. W. EVE.”
Mr. F. W. Levander, a master at University College School, writes
to me thus :—
s
‘Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
“ University College School, Gower-street, London, \V.C.
“ May 16th, 1893.
“DEAR Sm,—My acquaintance with the late “7. Stainton Moses com
menced in the year 1871, when he ﬁrst became one of the masters here.
This acquaintance soon extended beyond the nature of that generally met
with between colleagues ; it ripened into a constantly increasing friendship,
which continued unbroken till his death. During the whole of this long
period he always impressed me with the idea that he was thoroughly
#earnest and conscientious, and I believe that perfect reliance can be placed
on all his statements—Yours faithfully, “ F. W. LEVANDER.”
I have often heard Mr. Moses discussed by persons of opinions
opposed to his own; and since I owe it to my readers to make the
present paper not merely eulogistic, but as accurately descriptive
:as my materials allow, I feel bound to reproduce adverse criticisms. I
have, then, heard him, in his'later years, characterised as an obstinate,
confused, and irritable controversialist. I have heard him described as
lacking in the grace of humility, and in that spirituality of tastes and
character which should seem appropriate to one living much in the
'-commerce of the Unseen. But I have never heard anyone who had
even the slightest acquaintance with Mr. Moses impugn his sanity or
'his sincerity, his veracity or his honour.
Thus brieﬁy,—and with a dispassionate coldness against which an
impulse of gratitude in my own heart rebels,—let the life of W.
Stainton Moses be here recorded. But now our narrative must pass at
a bound from the commonplace and the credible to bewildering and
inconceivable things. With the even tenour of this straightforward and
reputable life was inwoven a chain of mysteries which, as I have before
:said, in what way soever they be explained, make that life one of the
most extraordinary which our century has seen. For his true history
lies, not in the everyday events thus far recorded, but in that series of
physical manifestations which began in 1872 and lasted for some eight
years, and that series of automatic writings and trance-utterances
which began in 1873, received a record for some ten years, and did
not, as is believed, cease altogether until the earthly end was near.
-
These two series were intimately connected; the physical pheno
‘
lmena being avowedly designed to give authority to the speeches and
writings which professed to emanate from the same source. There is no
[ground for separating the two groups, except the obvious one that the
automatic phenomena are less difﬁcult of credence than the physical.
‘Since, however, to the physical we must needs come sooner or later,
‘it. seems the simplest plan to place them ﬁrst, as coming ﬁrst in
ichronological order. I shall, therefore, proceed to describe some of
these sittings, mainly by quotation from Mr. Moses’ contemporary
~‘notes.'. ‘ '- 1
’ ' ' '
3“? Mr. Moses’ notes, however, are not the only records 6f tlies'e' experi
The Empariemes of W. Stainton Moses. ‘253
ments. For almost all the sittings which he describes, and for some
which he does not describe, there is (as already stated) a second detailed,
independent, contemporary record, by Mrs. Stanhope Speer, and for
many of the sittings a third record, also independent and contempora
neous, although very brief, by Dr. Speer. For some few of them there
is also a similar record by Mr. Percival ,- whose memory also confirms
the other accounts, Parts of Mr. Moses’ own record, indeed, are
avowedly derived from the other sitters, since he depended upon them
for information as to what went on when he was in trance. But he
has always, I think, made this distinction clear in his notes. His note
books of these phenomena, I may add, were very privately kept, and
even Mrs. Speer tells me that she has never read any of them except
the ﬁrst. Curiously enough, therefore, much of what I now print has
actually never been read till now, so far as I can discover, by anyone
except the writer himself. And a certain combination of accidents has
been needed even now to enable these passages, after their twenty years
of privacy, to see at last the light of day.
Mrs. Stanhope Speer’s notes have, as already stated, been for the
most part already published in Light, so that the reader can judge for
himself as to their accordance with Mr. Moses’ record. They are
largely concerned with trance-utterances of which Mr. Moses was
unconscious, but the description of the physical phenomena seems to me
as nearly identical in the two series of records as can be expected from
two separate observers. I have not thought it needful to reprint here
more than a few passages of Mrs. Speer’s, where, for some reason or
other, her account seems to supply a useful complement to Mr. Moses
own.
Dr. Speer’s notes, which are short, I have printed almost in extenso,
—interwoven with Mr. Moses’ own. They were written on a loose sheet
of paper and in two small note-books, which do not appear to have
been shown to anyone but Mr. Moses, among whose papers at Bedford
they were found. He printed some extracts from them in Light. An
important statement from Dr. Speer is also incorporated in Mr. Moses’
Researches in Spiritualism, and will be quoted below. I may add that
Mrs. Speer, examining Dr. Speer’s private diary, has found there also
short records of séances, concordant, though not verbally identical,
with the accounts given in his note-books. These records extend
further than the note-books, and some of them also will be found below.
Several passages by Mr. F. W'. Percival, already printed, will be
found below; and Mr. Percival has verbally conﬁrmed to me the
correctness of Mrs. Speer’s record of those sittings at which he was
himself present. Much indeed which is there given was taken down
by Mr. Percival himself. ,
I have spoken of these records as contemporaneous. .Mrs. Stanhope
S 9.
254 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Speer tells me that her notes were habitually written on the day of the
sitting, or at latest on the morrow. As to Dr. Speer’s and Mr. Moses’
notes it is now impossible to be equally certain, except in Mr. Moses’
books of automatic script, in which every entry begins with a record of
the day, and often of the hour and the place, of writing. But the inci
dental phrases, and the changes of pen and handwriting, in his note
books of physical phenomena lead me to think that his notes were
roughly jotted down daily, and written out in the note-book either at
once or at intervals of a few days. He says himself that they “were
very regularly written when the events of the séance were fresh in my
memory.” This point is the less important because, as I have said, the
various series of records are so concordant that (unless it be suggested
that they were fabricated to suit each other, though with a show of
independence) it is clear that they must all have been written while the
events were fresh in the recorders’ minds.
The passages which I have selected for quotation are simply such
as best illustrate the subject matter ;—the most striking and charac
teristic samples of the recorded phenomena. This may not, perhaps,
be the most politic course, in view of the reader’s difﬁculties of belief ;
but (as already implied) there seems no valid ground for selecting what
he might regard as the least incredible among so many incredibilities.
The evidence for all the incidents is practically the same 3—the whole
group of witnesses are as fully pledged, say, to the falling of pearls
from the air as to the automatic script or the trance-phenomena. I at
least can see no via media which can be plausibly taken. The
permanent fraud of the whole group, or the substantial accuracy of all
the records, are the only hypotheses which seem to me capable of
covering the facts. At any rate, before further discussing this point, I
propose to quote at sufﬁcient length to allow my readers to form their
own judgment. My only personal contribution to the data before us
lies in my somewhat conﬁdent impression that my friends whom I am
thus frankly discussing are and were in the habit of speaking the truth.
There are, indeed, two subsidiary points on which I have had a
clear principle to guide me to certain omissions. In the ﬁrst place, I
have almost wholly omitted Mr. Moses’ accounts of his sittings with
other mediums. What in those sittings is important for our present
purpose may be brieﬂy summarised as follows :—
_ 1. Mr. Moses spent much time and trouble in sitting with many
paid and one or two private mediums. He was in the habit of at once
recording the results in private note-books and trying to decide
whether the phenomena were genuine or no. So far we have addi
tional indication of a serious and reasonable interest in such matters,
as against the view that his own experiences are attributable to
hallucination or fraud.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 255
2. As an observer he seems to me to have been about at the average
level of that epoch. Several times he detected fraud ; once at least he
was convinced by a manifestation afterwards absolutely proved to have
been fraudulent. On some other occasions, while it is not certain that
he was deluded, he shows a very imperfect perception of possibilities of
deceit. But his degree of acumen as a detective is of little importance
to our present inquiry.
3. More important is the question as to the relation between these
séances with other mediums and his own manifestations. He
frequently asked the “guides
”
or “controls” of his automatic writing
their opinion on what he had witnessed. Did those “controls,” we
may ask, ever vouch for the genuineness of what was afterwards proved
to be false’.l or did they, on the other hand, show that kind of intimate
and infallible detective power which might be expected from observers
freed from the trammels of the ﬂesh? The evidence is to my mind
inconclusive either way. The _“ controls
”
themselves are of various
types ; and there is one rare “ control ”
(“Magus”), to be later discussed,
whose utterances seem to me shifty and exaggerated, in a way very
common in automatic script, and who does apparently endorse a com
plete impostor. The utterances of other “ controls” for the most part
reﬂect Mr. Moses’ own opinions on other mediums, or are sometimes
more severe.l But the question which is
of
most interest, and which
1 After a. sitting with Mr. Williams, which Mr. Moses had recorded as fully con
vincing, the following remarkable colloquy occurs in an automatic note-book (Book
XV., p. 1.)
Aug. 9th, 1874, Bedford.
Q. Was anyone present at the last séance at Mrs. R’s? I was much impressed.
A. Yes. I was not present myself but our friends were there. We do’not advise
you to rest much on that.
Q. What? I thought it conclusive proof.
A. You must use your own judgment. We do but warn you to be careful.
Q. Do you mean to say it was not genuine?
A. \Ve only urge you to be wary. The manifestation was suspicious and is not to
be depended on.
Q. I am surprised. Who writes?
A. It is I,—-+ I : S : D. [Imperator, Servus Dei, the assumed name of Mr. Moses’
principal guide]
Q. Then you will tell me. Am I to understand that the manifestation was not of
a materialised form?
A \Ve do not feel it part of our work to save you from the use of your own
powers. You are warned. Exercise your observing faculties.
Q. But I am bewildered.
A. It is needful for you to work through such experience. We may not save you
from it. Only be Wary.
Q. I have long wanted information about those forms and have had grave doubts,
but I have believed in J. K. [John King.]
A. It is not our plan to give you any further information now. \Ve only say that
what was then presented was dubious.
'
Q. But I am to write about it. \Vas it a. materialisation at all? Is there such a
thing '3-
256 A Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
is now insoluble, arises when Mr. Moses and his accustomed guides
concur in maintaining the genuineness of certain phenomena occurring
in the presence of a medium whose occasional fraud neither Mr. Moses
nor his guides deny. Something of this sort is the case with regard to
the “
spirit photographs” of the late Mr. Hudson. Hudson was clearly
shown to have occasionally cheated, and was once actually caught
cheating—in a most rudimentary manner—by Mr. Moses himself.1
Nevertheless, if such things as genuine spirit photographs shall after
wards be shown to exist, then these photographs of Hudson’s and the
accompanying statements made by the automatic script, will deserve
careful reconsideration.
The second point on which omissions from the manuscript are
A. You will know all in due time, but that was not reliable. We urge you to be
careful. You are always careful, as you think. But be wary as to generalising too
rapidly. There is in the manifestation of the lower spirits much deception, nor can
you ever be sure that such is not being practised. It is so in all the manifestations in
which the more material spirits are concerned.
Q. You do not tell me much.
A. We do not purpose to do so. \Ve only warn. It was not reliable.
Q. But I had my hand in J. K. ’s and the other on the medium’s body. There
could be no deception there.
A. On the medium‘s boot, but not on his body, as Kabbila informs us. But We
will go no further. It is not our habit to go so far. Seek not further information.
It will not be given. We do not wish to communicate at length now. You have
done all that you are capable of doing. 7
Q. But I want to ask further. Are my senses good for nothing, or am I so easily
deceived ‘2
A. No, no. Neither. But you know nothing of occult influence when deceiving
spirits are present. The mixture of the true and false would make it impossible for
you'to arrive at fact. Hence have we warned you so urgently to beware of the intro
duction of such. They are fatal to our work. Cease now.
I
'i'
I: S: D. [Imperator, Servus Dei.]
1‘
R. [Rectum]
(Two hours later—same day—evening.)
A. The chief will not speak. He
is
very cautious. But
I
saw and can testify. It
was all bad.
'
Q. How do you know?
I
can’t believe it.
A. It was all bad. John King was not there
;
but another who deceived.
Q. How in the world am
I
to know then
‘2
I
could not tell.
i
A. You would have known
if
you had been well, and we were not able to protect
you against false spirits.
'
Q. How am
I
to know that you are not mistaken? or
if
you are right, how am
I
to know what is true and what false?
' i
A. \Ve have already told you that false and deceiving spirits always do abound in
such circles. Hence
it
is
that you have been so warned of the danger of the assaults
of the undeveloped. The chief has told you to beware of such. The warning is
needed.
'
Q. Then you mean to say that you were there, and that what
I
mistook for
J
.K.
was the medium.
I
don’t want to misunderstand you.
‘
A. Yes.
1
This seems to be perhaps the only recorded instance of actual detection of Hudson
in ﬂagrante delicto. See Mrs. Sidgwick’s remarks in Proceedings, Vol. VII.
,
p. 274
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 257’:
necessary concerns the alleged identity of some of the communicating
'
intelligences. As a general rule the same alleged spirits both .
manifested themselves by raps, &c., at Mr. Moses’ sittings withhis .
friends, and also wrote through his hand when he was alone. In this, as ,
in other respects, Mr. Moses’ two series of sittings—when alone and in
company—were concordant, and, so to say, complementary ;—explana--.
tions being given by the writing of what had happened at the séances. -
When “ direct writing” was given at the séances the handwriting of
each alleged spirit was the same as that which the same spirit was 'in
the habit of employing in the automatic script. The claim to'
individuality was thus in all cases decisively made.
Now the personages thus claiming to appear may be divided
roughly into three classes :—
A.—First and inost important are a group of persons recently
deceased,_r_and sometIﬁWWilI’ bé‘"seen7'aanifes£irig“' tlléiiselles
at the seances "before theirmdecease was "known through any ordinary,
channel to an ofnthhepgrsﬂonspresentlri'hese spirits in many instances
gimentity, Eniiqning facts connected with their‘piirth
Wfter\var(ls found t0.he correct. With all such “6555?”
we shall have in the next paper to deal at length.
i W i u u
_
B.-—Next comes-ﬂar'group of personages belonging to genera
tions more remote, and generally of some distinction in their day.
Grocyn, the friend of Erasmus, may be taken as a type of these. Many
of these also contribute facts as a proof of identity, which facts, as in
Grocyn’s case given below, are sometimes more correct than the con
scious or admitted knowledge of any of the sitters could supply. In
such cases, however, the diﬂiculty of proving identity is increased (as
will be seen later on) by the fact that most (though not all) of the
facts thus given are readily accessible in print, and may conceivably
have either been read and forgotten by Mr. Moses, or have become
known to him by some kind of clairvoyance. ,
C.——A third group consists of spirits who give such names as
Rector, Doctor, Theophilus, and, above all, Imperator. These from
time to time reveal the names which they assert to have been theirs in
earth-life. These concealed names are for the most part both more
illustrious, and more remote than the names in Class B,—and it is.
these which will here be withheld. This was the express wish of Mn,
Moses himself, who justly felt that the assumption of great names is
likely to diminish rather than to increase the weight of the com-I
munication. He felt this in his own person ; and for a long while one
of his main stumbling-blocks lay in these lofty and unprovable claims.
Ultimately he came to believe even in these identities, on the general
ground that teachers who had given him so many proofs both of their
power and of their serious interest in his welfare were not likely to
258 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
have deceived him on such a point. But he did not count upon a
similar belief in others, and he expressly wished to avoid seeming to
claim special authority for the teachings on the ground of their alleged
authorship. It must be added also that some of these teachings them
selves asserted that when the name of some spirit long removed from
earth was given, the recipient must sometimes take this to imply a
stream of inﬂuence emanating from that spirit, rather than his own
presence in person.1
“The higher spirits who come to your earth are inﬂuences or emanations.
They are not what you describe as persons, but emanations from higher
spheres. You must learn to recognise the impersonality of the higher mes
sages. When we ﬁrst appeared to this medium he insisted on our
identifying ourselves to him. But many inﬂuences come through our name.
Two or three stages after death, spirits lose much of What you regard as in
dividuality, and become more like inﬂuences. I have now passed to the
verge of the spheres from which it is possible to return to you, and I can
inﬂuence without any regard to distance. I am very distant from you now.”
With these special exceptions, made on the grounds above explained,
the quotations which follow are fully representative of the series of
Mr. Moses’ notes of physical phenomena. These notes, as already
stated, were contained in ﬁve books, numbered by me 1 B, 2B, 3 B,
4 B, 5 B,—of which the ﬁrst is missing.
The now missing 1 B (as is incidentally stated by Mr. Moses) con
tained the early experiments, and was the note-book from which he
took much of the material for certain papers summarising those experi
ments which be printed in Human Nature in 1874. I shall therefore
begin with quoting the important parts of this summary, which has
been long out of print. The subsequent direct quotations from the
note-books will explain some points which the summary leaves obscure ;
for instance, as to the amount of observation which Mr. Moses, in his
normal state, was able to give to the phenomena, and the degree to
which he depended upon information from his fellow-sitters.
One word more before the citations begin. It must be remembered
that the phenomena here to be described, strange and grotesque as they
often seem, cannot be called meaningless. The alleged operators are
at pains throughout to describe what they regarded as the end, and
what merely as the means to that end. Their constantly avowed
object was the promulgation through Mr. Moses of certain religious
and philosophical views ; and the physical manifestations are through
out described as designed merely as a proof of power, and a basis for
the authority claimed for the serious teachings.2
1 I have here had to draw a somewhat arbitrary line, and have decided to withhold
all names more ancient and venerable than that of Seneca.
2 Spirit Teachings, which includes many of these communications, has just been
republished with a Life by Mr. Charlton Speer.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 259
QUOTATIONS FROM MR. Mosss’ “Rsssxncnns IN SPIRITUALISM.”1
“ All that I have described [[of movement] occurs readily when the
table is untouched. Indeed, when the force is developed, we have found
it better to remove the hands and leave thetable to its own devices.
The tilting above noticed has been even more marked when the sitters
have been removed from it to a distance of about two feet. It has
tapped on the chair and on the ﬂoor, inclined so as to play into a hand
placed on the carpet, and has been restored to its normal position when
no hand has touched it. The actual force required to perform this
Would be represented by very considerable muscular exertion in a man
of ordinary strength.
“ We had ventured on one occasion, contrary to direction, to add to
our circle a strange member. Some trivial phenomena occurred, but
i
the usual controlling spirit did not appear. When next we sat, he
e; and probably none of us will easily forget the sledge-hammer
blows with which he smote the table. The noise was distinctly audible
in the room below, and gave one the idea that the table would be
broken to pieces. In vain we withdrew from the table, hoping to
diminish the power. The heavy blows increased in intensity, and
the whole room shook with their force. The direst penalties were
threatened if we again interfered with the development by bringing in
new sitters. We have not ventured to do so again ; and I do not think
we shall easily be persuaded to risk another similar objurgation.
“ Mr. Serjeant Cox 2
records a curious instance of the exercise of this
force, in the second volume of his very interesting work, “ What am
I? In the cases speciﬁed above, the table was a small square one,
ﬁrmly placed on four legs, and weighing about 40lb. The dining
table of Serjeant Cox, on the contrary, was very massive; so heavy,
that the united exertions of two strong men were required to move it.
The experiment is so curious that I extract the account :—
“ On Tuesday, June 2nd, 1873, a personal friend came to my residence in
Russell Square to dress for a dinner party to which we were invited. He
had previously exhibited considerable power as a Psychic. Having half an
hour to spare, we went into the dining-room. It was just six o’clock, and
of course broad daylight. I was opening letters ; he was reading the Times.
My dining-table is of mahogany, very heavy, old-fashioned, six feet wide,‘
nine feet long. It stands'on a Turkey carpet, which much increases the
diﬂiculty of moving it. A subsequent trial showed that the united efforts
of two strong men standing were required to move it one inch. There was
1 Researches in Spiritualism during the Years 1872-3. By M. A. Oxon. Pages 21-23,
28-30, 34-39, 41-42, 49-54, 56-57, 59-62, 66-72 are here reprinted, as pp. 259-283 of this
paper.
2 It is worth mentioning that Serjeant Cox (who orally described this scene to
me) was not himself a
“ Spiritualist,” but ascribed these and similar phenomena to a
power innate in the medium’s own being.—F.W.H.M.
260; The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses.
no cloth upon it, and the light fell full under it. N0 person was in the room
but my friend and myself. Suddenly, as we were sitting thus, frequent and.
loud rappings came upon the table. My friend was then sitting holding the
newspaper with both hands, one arm resting on the table, the other on the
back of chair, and turned sideways from the table, so that his legs and feet
were not under the table, but at the side of it. Presently the solid table
quivered as if with an ague ﬁt. Then it swayed to and fro so violently as
almost to dislocate the big pillar-like legs, of which there are eight. Then
it moved forward about three inches. I looked under it to be sure that it
was not touched ; but still it moved, and still the blows were loud upon it.
“ This sudden access of the Force at such a time and in such a place,
with none present but myself and my friend, and with no thought then of
invoking
it,
caused the utmost astonishment in both of us. My friend said
that nothing like
it
had ever before occurred to him.
I
then suggested that
it
would be an invaluable opportunity, with so great
a
power in action, to
‘
make trial of motion. without contact, the presence of two persons only, the
daylight, the place, the size and weight of the table, making the experiment
a crucial one. Accordingly we stood upright, he on one side of the table,
I
on the other side of it. We stood two feet from
it,
and held our hands
eight inches above it. In one minute
it
rocked violently. Then
it
moved‘
over the carpet
a
distance of seven inches. Then
it
rose three inches from
the ﬂoor on the side on which my friend was standing. Then
it
rose equally
'
on my side. Finally my friend held his hands four inches over the end of
the table, and asked that
it
would rise and touch his hand three times. It?
did so
;
and then, in accordance with the like request,
it
rose to my hand.
held at the other end to the same height above
it
and in the same manner.”,
“ Another singular instance occurred during a visit that
I
made to
a gentleman interested in this subject. After some conversation,
it
was
suggested that we should try the effect of placing our hands on a pillar.
work-table belonging to his wife. It was ﬁlled with reels and tapes,.
and the appliances of needlework. We had scarcely touched
it
whenv
it,began :to move. It danced about like a live thing
;
executed a. series
of gyrations, first .on one foot and then on another
;
and ﬁnally lay;
down on-the ﬂoor and jerked all its contents about the room. It rose
again unaided, bounded off the ﬂoor, and waltzed round the room,
When
it
was stillI held my hand over it, and
it
began to quiver, and,
ﬁnally rose. from the ﬂoor until
it
touched my hand, which was ten orv
twelve inches above it. It afterwards rose to the height of eighteen -
inches "or two feet. While this was going on, a column of light was
visible‘ over it. '
'
‘
'
“Once more, motion without contact, directed by evident intelligence,
'
is
seen markedly in the following instance :—1 was calling on a friend,'
and the conversation fell on the phenomena of Spiritualism. A sitting
was proposed, and nothing, or almost nothing, occurred. We were I
quite alone in the room, which was well lighted. We drew back from“
the table, intending to give up the attempt. My friend asked why.
nothing occurred. The table, untouched by us, rose and gently touched
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 261';
my throat and chest three times. I was suffering from severe bronchial
symptoms, and was altogether below par. After this no rap or move
ment could be elicited, and we were fain to accept the explanation of
our want of success. _
“ My ﬁrst personal experience of levitation was about ﬁve months,
after my introduction to Spiritualism. Physical phenomena of a very
powerful description had been developed with great rapidity. We were
new to the subject, and the phenomena were most interesting. After
much movement of objects, and lifting and tilting of the table, a small
hand organ, a. child’s plaything, was ﬂoated about the room, making av
most inharmonious din. It was a favourite amusement with the little
Puck-like invisible who then manifested. One day (August 30th, 1872)
the little organ was violently thrown down in a distant corner of the
room, and I felt my chair drawn back from the table and turned into
the corner near which I sat. It was so placed that my face was turned
away from the circle to the angle made by the two walls. In this
position the chair was raised from the ﬂoor to a distance of, I should
judge, twelve or fourteen inches. My feet touched the top of the
skirting-board, which would be about twelve inches in height. The
chair remained suspended for a few moments, and I then felt myself
going from it, higher and higher, with a very slow and easy movement.
I had no sense of discomfort nor of apprehension. I was perfectly
conscious of what was being done, and described the process to those
who were sitting at the table. The movement was very steady, and
occupied what seemed a long time before it was completed. I was.
close to the wall, so close that I was able to put a pencil ﬁrmly against.
my chest, and to mark the spot opposite to me on the wall-paper. That
mark, when measured afterwards, was found to be rather more than
six feet from the ﬂoor, and, from its position, it was clear that my head,
must have been in the very corner of the room, close to the ceiling, I
do not think that I was in any way entranced. I was perfectly clear,
in my mind ,' quite alive to what was being done, and fully conscious
of the curious phenomenon. I felt norpressure on any part of my body,
only a sensation as of being in a lift, whilst objects seemedto be passing.
away from below me. I remember a slight difﬁculty in breathing, and.
a sensation of fulness in the chest, with a general feeling of being,
lighter than the atmosphere. I was lowered down quite gently, and
placed in the chair, which had settled in its old position. The measure
ments and observations were taken immediately, and the marks which _'
I had made with my pencil were noted. My voice was said at the:
time to sound as if from the corner of the room, close to the ceiling.
“This experiment-was more or less successfully repeated on nine
other occasions. On the 2nd September, 1872, I see from my records,
that I was three times raised on to the table, and twice levitated in the,
262- The Experiences of W. Stainton .Moses.
corner of the room. The ﬁrst movement on to the table was very
sudden—a sort of instantaneous jerk. I was conscious of nothing until
I found myself on the table—my chair being unmoved. This, under
ordinary circumstances, is what we call impossible. I was so placed
that it would have been out of my power to quit my place at the table
without moving my chair. In the second attempt I was placed on the
table in a standing p0sture. In this case I was conscious of the with
drawal of my chair and of being raised to the level of the table, and
then of being impelled forward so as to stand upon it. I was not
entranced, nor was I conscious of any external pressure. In the third
case I was thrown on to the table, and from that position on to an
adjacent sofa. The movement was instantaneous, as in the ﬁrst
recorded case; and though I was thrown to a considerable distance,
and with considerable force, I was in no way hurt. At the time that
I lay on the sofa I felt the chair in which I had been sitting, and
which would be four feet from where. I lay, come and press my back
several times. It was ﬁnally placed on the table.
“The levitations were of a character similar to the one described
before, with the addition of one very important particular. On the
wall behind my chair was an oil-painting in an old-fashioned massive
frame. The frame projected from the wall far enough to allow my arm
to rest upon
it,
as my dust-covered sleeve afterwards testiﬁed. This
frame was about eight inches from the ceiling.
I
remember distinctly
being raised until my hand touched the top of this frame.
I
was then
turned round, and my body was longitudinally extended over the table
until my feet were close to the head of one of the sitters.
Iremained
in that position long enough for
it
to be carefully ascertained by passing
the hand over my feet and legs. In this case the lowering to the
ground took place rapidly and suddenly:
I
surmise, from the fact of
my feet and legs having been touched. This demonstration, which had
agitated me, closed the séance
;
and while we were preparing to leave
the room another display of force under well-ascertained conditions
took place. We had risen from the table, and one of the party was
near the door. A chair was close to his right hand;
I
was three yards
'from_ him, when suddenly, from the corner in which
I
had been sitting,
a footstool darted across the room as though
it
had been violently
kicked, struck the chair near the door, and knocked
it
down with a
great clatter.
I
saw the occurrence, which was in fair light, and very
convincing as a display of force. The footstool ran along the ﬂoor as
though
it
had been forcibly kicked; and started from a corner near
which no human being was standing.
“These phenomena of levitation have presented themselves on a few
other occasions
;
but the most marked instances have been those above
described.
I
have discouraged them as much as possible, from a dislike
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 263
to violent physical manifestations. I have little power to prevent a.
special kind of manifestation, and none whatever to evoke any that I
may desire ; but I do, as far as I can, prevent the very uncomfortable
phenomena which at this period were so strongly developed. On
several occasions my chair has been raised from the ground slightly.
I_have always checked any attempt to raise it beyond a few inches,
either by request, or by rising from
it,
and so checking the manifesta
tion. In the instances recorded above
I
was a passive agent, and did
not aid or check the exhibition of the force. . . .
“In dealing with the movement of objects within a closed room
without the intervention of human agency,
I
make reference to the
ﬁrst startling manifestation which occurred in my presence. The date
was August 18th, 1872, and the occurrence was detailed at the time
in the columns of the illedium, as well as in the Liverpool Mercury.
Our circle had not met more than half-a-dozen times, and no results
had been elicited beyond raps and movement of the table. On the
day named a remarkable access of the force was manifest throughout
the day, commencing with raps on the table during breakfast. The
day was Sunday, and we all went to church. On returning
I
found
on entering my bedroom, which adjoined the drawing-room 0n the
ﬁrst ﬂoor, that three articles had been so placed on the bed as to
form an imperfect cross. My attention was drawn to them by loud
raps which followed me round the room.
I
called my friend, whose
guest
I
then was, and he observed the position of the articles, and
heard the loud rappings which followed me from chair to chair, as
I
went round the room by way of experiment. Even whilst
I
was in the
room another article was brought and added to the cross. \Ve thought
it well to establish beyond doubt the intervention of an agency not
human. As yet, though we ourselves had no doubt as to the agency
at work, still there was no conclusive proof that children or servants
might not have hoaxed us. To be sure, they could not make the raps,
seeing that my friend and
I
were alone in the room, but we thought it
well to exclude the possibility of such an explanation. Accordingly we
searched the room throughout—it contained no cupboards—bolted the
window, and locked the door, my friend and host pocketing the key.
At lunch our conversation was annotated by clear raps, and distinct
evidence of the presence of the force was never absent. As soon as
lunch was over we went to the locked room, and found two more
articles added. The room was again searched, and again locked by my
friend, who retained the key in his possession throughout, and we
returned to the dining-room. Raps loud and constant followed us,
and the heavy dining-table, with all its load of dessert and decanters
and glasses, was moved several times out of its place. Another visit
of inspection discovered other
additions, and this went on until
5
pm,
7264 The. Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
when a complete cross extending the whole length of the bed was
made entirely of little articles from my toilet-table. My friend, his
'
wife, and myself were together all the afternoon, so we were not the
unconscious authors of the mystery. The door was locked and the key
never left my host’s pocket, so no human being played a trick. Indeed,
-there was no one who could or would do so. The room was in a public
part, next to the drawing-room. The children were with us, and were
incapable of such tricks. The servants were old and trusted, and knew
nothing of Spiritualism, nor of what was going on. Independently,
therefore, of the messages which were‘constantly being given through
out the day, and of the direct writing which informed us of the reason
for this remarkable manifestation, we are able to assert with conﬁdence
that human intervention was impossible. The formation of that cross,
aby a slow process of growth in a locked room, during a bright August
afternoon in broad sunlight, remains in my mind one of the most
remarkable instances of assured intervention by invisible agency with
which I am acquainted. Nor is it the less remarkable that it occurred
'
at the very outset of my experience, while I was yet comparatively new
to the subject, as though to overthrow scepticism by one fatal blow,
and to furnish by anticipation an answer to the theory lately put
forward by Mr. Serjeant Cox: ‘
Psychics are developed. Their power
grows with practice. The phenomena are not produced immediately
and together, but by slow degrees. None of them has found himself
suddenly possessed of the power to produce any but the commonest indi
cations of its presence.’ (The italics are mine.) Here was no circle
formed for the purpose of eliciting phenomena. I had undergone no
process of development; and though I object to the use of the word
‘
produce,’ seeing that it is not properly applicable, still what was then
produced was by no means ‘
the commonest indication of the presence
’
of the force.
[I subjoin an account of this incident by Dr. Speer, found by Mrs. Speer
on a loose sheet of paper. He had apparently made the sketches, which
were reproduced by Mr. Moses in Light for February 19th, 1892, but which
'
I deem it needless to give here.-F.W.H.M.]
Angnst17th, 1872.—On this day theRev. W. S. Moses, self, and wife
resumed our evening séances. We chose the back dining-room of the
.house, which we had only entered a' few days previous; the table being
a heavy square table with a deal top and having oilcloth sewn over it. \Ve
‘had scarcely drawn our chairs up to the table and laid our hands on it,
.when it was violently tilted up two or three times, Mrs. S. being so
astonished, if not alarmed, at the sudden and violent nature of the move
l'ment as to express a wish that it might not be repeated. Raps of various
kinds now began all around Mr. M. ; on his chair, in the centre of the table,
'on the ﬂoor, &0. Thuds were also heard in various places, and scrapings on
'the ﬂoor—in fact, as many as seven different kinds of sound were heard.
'The Experiences of' W. Starlnton Moses. 265
Mr. M. was moved away from the table, turned round in his chair, and
pushed against the wall. He was then brought up to the table. The table
was then moved half round without being touched, it lifted itself up again,
and on questions being asked as to who was present and the nature of the
spirits, we were informed that there were forty-nine spirits present, that all
were good, and were commissioned to take charge of the sitters.
On Sunday morning, August 18th, 1872, my wife and family, and the
Rev. \V. Moses, who had only arrived on Friday night, went to St. George’s
Church, Douglas, Isle of Man. On returning, the latter went into his
bedroom, and immediately came out and called me to witness the manner in
. which during his absence certain articles of toilet, 870., to wit, a writing-case,
a ﬂy-book, and a pocket note-book, had been symmetrically placed on the
centre of the bed. We at once noticed the crucial appearance exhibited and
hazarded a guess as to the intention thereof. We left the room and shortly
after returned, when we found that a skull cap lying on the chest of
drawers had been placed on the bed post, while the clerical white
collar which Mr. M. had removed not many minutes before had been placed
like a. halo around the upper portion of the developing cross (ﬁg. 2). (It
should here be noticed that our expressed surmises as to the design
apparently in progress were conﬁrmed by various loud distinct raps on the
foot-board.) We again left the room for a time, and found that now the
lower limb of the cross had been lengthened by the addition of two ivory
backed clothes-brushes (ﬁg. 3). We descended to dinner, having locked the
door and taken the key with us. After dinner and while sitting round the
table at dessert, the conversation naturally (on the children leaving) reverted
to these extraordinary proceedings, when immediately manifestations com
menced all around Mr. Moses, raps on the table, thuds on the ﬂoor, raps, loud
and repeated, on the back of his chair. A tune played on the table with my
ﬁngers was accurately imitated, the table with all on it was moved out of
its place and everything shaken. This was put a stop to by request, but the
milder phenomena. persisted, and, it may be said once for all, continued till
'9 pm. Mr. M. suggested that I should go up to his room again. I did so,
and found on unlocking the door that two paper-knives had been placed like
rays to the right and left of the cross bar of the cross (ﬁg. 4). I again
locked the door, put the key in my pocket, and came downstairs. In about
half-an-hour we returned and found that two additional articles had been
appended (ﬁg. 5). We again left and locked the door,- and on return after
another half-hour the cross had been fully developed into halo and rays,
while the skull cap had been placed above all as in a crown (ﬁg. 6). During
each examination, as before, our comments had been acknowledged by raps.
and now, as we meditated going to church, we canvassed the propriety of
removing the articles from the bed, in the event of the servants wishing to
arrange the room for the night. It now occurred to Mrs. Sl that before doing
so an opportunity of communicating by writing should be afforded, and
accordingly a piece of paper and any aluminium pencil were placed' on the bed.
We retired, locked the door, and on returning shortly ascertained that
nothing within had taken .place. A piece of red ﬂannel was then placed
under the paper and we again retired, myself being the last again to leave,
and locking the door behind me. On returning we found that the paper had
'been written upon (ﬁg. 7). To us the initials were unknown, but Mr. M. at
266 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
once pronounced the monogram to be that of two friends, man and wife, both
departed, and one of whom had been buried on the Tuesday previous. The
other initials [confusedly given] were those of a long-departed cousin, who
in his lifetime had been strongly attached to Mr. M. The number 46 at ﬁrst
sight was puzzling, but taken in connection with the three autographs, it at
once explained the assertion of the spirits that there had been 49 present
on the previous evening. Before replacing the various articles Mr. M.
suggested that although the alphabet had hitherto been invariably refused
it might now be acceptable as a means of explaining these phenomena. On
asking the question the answer was now in the afﬁrmative, and the alphabet
beb} called out by myself and the message taken down by Mr. Moses,
we *éeived the following :-- _
Cross. We are happy.
“ I come now to deal with the carrying of objects into a locked
room, and the passage of solid. objects through material obstacles.
“The days immediately following the day above mentioned (August
18th) Were ﬁlled with instances of such phenomena. I have before
noticed the prevalence at certain times of certain phenomena; and
have stated my belief that this is due to the operation for a time of a.
particular communicating spirit, Who gives place in turn to another,
who produces a different manifestation. This was so at this time. IVIy
records of séances during the latter half of the month of August
show over ﬁfty instances in which objects from diﬁ'erent parts of the
house were placed upon the table round which we were sitting. They
were invariably small, and were generally thrown on the table ; such
of them, however, as would easily break were placed quietly, and our
attention was drawn to them by a request for light. They came
from all parts of the house indiﬁ'erently, and even from outside ; from
my own bed-room, and from rooms which I had never entered ; whilst
we were sitting with joined hands in expectation of some such occur
rence ; and whilst no séance was being held, and our minds were not
directed to the subject. It is in vain to attempt any exhaustive
record. I have not space for it; and it would be but a wearisome
iteration of a ten times told tale. It will suﬁice if I mention some
instances, and dwell more particularly on the most remarkable cases
which I have observed.
“Our séances immediately after August 18th began to show instances
of this phenomenon ; and on the 21st a curious instance of
it,
and of
intelligent comment on conversation, occurred. The room in which we
used to meet opened by folding doors into the dining-room. In this
latter room my host and
I
were sitting in the twilight at the open
window, talking of the subject, and wondering much whether we were
deceived. Raps came, and we were told to go into the next room. We
stood by the table, and raps came again. ‘To convince’ was spelt
out, and a small copy of Paradise Lost was gently placed on the table.
DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 267
We had all of us had it in our hands during the evening, and could
testify to its position on a book-shelf close to the window at which I
and my friend had been sitting.
“On August 28th seven objects from different rooms were brought
into the séance-room; on the 30th, four, and amongst them a little
bell from the adjoining dining-room. We always left gas brightly
burning in that room and in the hall outside, so that if the doors were
opened even for a moment a blaze of light would have been let into the
dark room in which we sat. As this never happened we have full
assurance from what Dr. Carpenter considers the best authority, Com
mon Sense, that the doors remained closed. In the dining-room there
was a little bell. We heard it commence to ring, and could trace it by
its sound as it approached the door which separated us from it. What
was our astonishment when we found that in spite of the closed door
the sound drew nearer to us! It was evidently within the room in
which we sat, for the bell was carried round the room, ringing loudly the
whole time. After completing the circuit of the room, it was brought
down, passed under the table, coming up close to my elbow. It rang
under my very nose, and went round about my head, then passed round
the circle, ringing close to the faces of all. It was ﬁnally placed upon
the table. I do not wish to theorise, but this seems to me to dispose of
arguments which would put forward the theory of our being psycholo
gised, or of the object coming down the chimney, as an explanation of
this difﬁcult subject.
“Another curious case occurred at a later date, October 14th, 187 3;
our circle of three sitting alone. An unusual length of time elapsed
before anything occurred, and we were in the act of remarking this
when a little Parian statuettefrom an upper room in the house was
placed on the table. One of the party made a request for one of our
friends who usually communicates, asking that he might be fetched.
‘We are doing so,’ was spelt out by raps; and as the sentence was
complete and answered our thoughts, we ceased to call over the
alphabet. However, it was called for again, and ‘mething else’ was
spelt. We could form no idea what this might mean. It was repeated,
and after much puzzling it occurred to us to join it to the previous
message, and it then read, ‘
\Ve are doing something else.’ (What a
clear case of unconscious c'erebration I) We were told to sit with joined
hands, and very soon an odour like Tonquin bean was apparent to all
of us. Something fell on the table, and light showed that there had
been brought from my friend’s dressing-room a snuﬁlbox which had
contained Tonquin bean. The box was closed, and the odour was
remarked before any of us had the remotest idea that the box was in
the room.
“With rare exceptions the objects brought seemed to come from
T
268 The Experiences of W. Stainto'n Moses.
behind me. I have noticed this in cases where something has been
brought from a distant part of the se’ance-room. It is the same when
objects are brought from without, except in certain cases, such as that
above noted. I have more than once been struck on the top of the
head by objects as they have been converging on the table, and on one
occasion a heavy bronze candlestick, which was brought from the man'
telshelf in a room near (January 25th, 1873), struck me a severe blow,
the effects of which remained for a day after. I will undertake to say
that I was not biologised on that occasion.
“Another exception to the rule of objects coming from behind me
occurred lately. A friend [Mr. F. \V. Percival] had joined our circle,
and we sat in the dining-room, instead of our usual small Seance-room.
The dining-table is very large, and he faced me with a good six feet of
mahogany between us. He remarked that he had never been present
when any object had been brought into the room from without, and
said how much he desired to witness such a case. The request was
made, and, contrary to rule, promptly answered. A round stone from
another room was gently thrown from behind, so as to strike his left
shoulder before rolling on to the table. The gentleman in whose house
we were [Dr. Speer] could testify to the exact position of the stone on
his study mantelshelf, and my friend had no doubt as to the direction
from which it came when it struck him. Like the bell, its presence
was ﬁrst manifested in a part of the room opposite to, and most distant
from, me.
* * * * * *
“Hitherto I have described phenomena which my eyes have wit~
nessed,1 which have occurred while I was in full possession of my
faculties, and when my powers of observation were unimpaired. I come
now to a group, which, for convenience, I have classed together, where
the case is somewhat altered. I have, indeed, observed all the
phenomena of which I speak at many different times, and under
various circumstances, but not in their most perfect form of development.
In all cases where the large luminous appearances, which I am about
to describe, were most successfully presented, I was in a state of
unconscious trance. In a similar way, the most perfect musical sounds
are made when I cannot hear them ; and, as a general rule, to which
\- the exceptions are so rare as only to serve to establish the principle,
the best and most successful manifestations occur when the medium is
deeply entranced. The condition of absolute passivity on his part is
then most perfectly secured, and the force which the operators use can
be more safely drawn Off. Over and over again have I heard this
passive state spoken of as an essential condition of success.
“The fact that I am entranced during the occurrence of the best
1 These phenomena are said to have sometimes occurred in light. —F.W. H.M.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 269
manifestations renders it difﬁcult for me to give an accurate descrip
tion. I have endeavoured to remedy this by requesting those who
have witnessed specially notable phenomena to favour me with a
description of what they saw; and I have been at pains to record a
faithful account immediately after each séance, drawing my information
from the impressions left on the minds of the sitters. My own records,
therefore, contain exact accounts of what I have seen myself, and,
further, of the descriptions given me by careful observers of phenomena
which occurred during my entrancement. These sources of informa_
tion I have supplemented by accounts kindly furnished me, which I
print exactly as I have received them. As a consequence, I am able to
afﬁrm that my descriptions and statements are trustworthy, and
within the margin of fact.
SEO. I.—Perfumes and waves of scent-laden air.
“In every circle with which I am acquainted the conditions are
harmonised by some means. Usually music is employed for that
purpose. It seems to have the effect of soothing the minds of the
sitters, and leading them to throw aside, for the time, thoughts of other
matters, while they dwell harmoniously on what is being attempted in
the circle. Whatever other eﬁ'ect music may have, I believe its sooth
ing property to be its chief merit. This harmonising is effected in our
circle by means of perfumes and waves of cool scented air. We are
never asked for music. If, very rarely, a musical box is set in motion,
its only effect is to elicit a peculiar muﬂled sound in the ﬂoor, and to
cause a vibration to be made in the room. By these sounds we know
of the presence of a particular intelligence, who so announces himself.
But they are never asked for again, and they apparently have no
harmonising effect. Singing is never introduced ,' and any noise, even
of loud conversation, is checked at once. We are told to keep still.
But when any opposing conditions are to be removed, then the room is
pervaded by odours of subtle and delicate, or strong, perfume. If a
new sitter is present, he or she is censed
(if
I
may adopt the expression)
and so initiated. The chair which the stranger occupies
is
surrounded
by luminous haze, from which issues the perfume
;
and very frequently
wet scent, more or less pungent according to conditions,
is
sprinkled
from the ceiling at the same time. If a new intelligence
is
to com
municate, or special honour to be paid to a chief, the room
is
pervaded
by perfumes which grow stronger as the spirit enters. This scenting
of the room in which we are about to meet will sometimes commence
many hours before we begin. Indeed, when we haVe been in the
country, far from the polluted atmosphere of smoke and dirt, charged
with the nameless odours that London breeds, the air of the séance
room
is
always laden with perfumes. There
is
a subtle odour in
2
T
270 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
which is perpetually being changed. Sometimes the aroma of a ﬂower
from the garden is drawn out, intensiﬁed, and insinuated throughout
the house. Sometimes the odour is like nothing of this earth’s pro
duction, ethereal, delicate, and inﬁnitely delightful. Sandal-wood used
to be a favourite, and rose, verbena, and odours of other ﬂowers have
been plentifully used.
“I ﬁnd it diﬂicult to convey any idea of the subtle odours that have
been diffused throughout the room, or of the permanence of the scent.
It is usually the ﬁrst manifestation and the last. The perfume is
sprinkled in showers from the ceiling, and borne in waves of cool air
round the circle, especially when the atmosphere is close and the air
oppressive. Its presence in a particular place is shown to me by the
luminous haze which accompanies it. I can trace its progress round
the circle by the light—and my vision has been many times corrobo
rated on this point by other sitters—and can frequently say to a certain
sitter, ‘
You will smell the scent directly. I see the luminous form
going to you.’ My vision has always been conﬁrmed by the exclama
tions of delight which follow.
“When we ﬁrst observed this manifestation, it was attended by a
great peculiarity. The odour was circumscribed in space, conﬁned to a
belt or band, beyond which it did not penetrate. It surrounded the
circle to the extent of a few feet, and outside of that belt was not
perceptible ; or it was drawn across the room as a cordon, so that it was
possible to walk into it and out of it again—the presence and absence
of the odour and the temperature of the air which accompanied it
being most marked. Judge Edmunds [in his book on Spiritualism]
especially notes the presence of an odour which was not difuseel
through the 'room. He describes the sensation as being like a ﬂower
presented to the nostrils at intervals. I should rather describe what
I observed as a scented zone or belt, perfectly deﬁned and not more
than a few feet in breadth. Within it the temperature was cool and
the scent strong, outside of it the air was decidedly warmer, and no
trace of perfume was perceptible. It was no question of fancy. The
scent was too strong for that. And the edges of the belt were quite
clearly marked, so that it was possible, instantaneously, to pass from
the warm air of the room to the cool perfumed air of this zone. I do
not remember ever hearing of a precisely similar case to this, which
occurred repeatedly.
“ I have known the same phenomenon to occur in the open air. I
have been walking with a friend, for instance, and we have walked into
air laden with scent, and through it again into the natural atmosphere.
We have gone back, and have found that the air in a certain locality—
generally a narrow belt—was distinctly perfumed, while the air on each
side bore no traces of scent. I have even known cases where wet scent
The Experiences of W. Staimfon Moses. 271
has been produced and showered down in the open air. On one special
occasion, in the Isle of WVight, my attention was attracted by the patter
of some ﬁne spray on a lady’s [Mrs Speer’s] silk dress, as we were
walking along a road. One side of the dress was plentifully besprinkled
with ﬁne spray, which gave forth a delicious odour, very clearly
perceptible for some distance round.
“ During a séance the scent is either carried, as it seems, round the
circle, and is then accompanied by cool air, or it is sprinkled down from
the ceiling of the room in liquid form. In the clairvoyant state I am
able to see and describe the process before the scent is sprinkled, and
can warn a special sitter not to look upwards. For, on certain occasions,
when conditions are not favourable, the scent is pungent and most
painful if it gets into the eye. At other times it is harmless, and causes
no pain whatever. I have had a quantity of it thrown into my eye,
and it has caused no more pain than water would. On the contrary, I
have seen the effect caused on another [Mrs Speer] by a similar
occurrence. The pain caused was excruciating, the inﬂammation was
most severe, and the effects did not pass off for twenty-four hours or
more. In fact, whatever the liquid was, it caused severe conjunctivitis.
“This variety in the pungency and potency of perfume I attribute
to variety in the attendant circumstances. The illness of one of the
sitters will cause the scent to be coarse and pungent. Harmonious
conditions, physical and mental, are signalised by the presence of
delicate subtle odours, which are inﬁnitely charming. I have said that
sometimes the odour of ﬂowers, either in the house or garden, will be
intensiﬁed. A vase of fresh ﬂowers put on the table causes the diffusion
through the room of one or more of the odours of ﬂowers in the bouquet.
I have observed the process of drawing out the natural perfume in this
way. We used frequently to gather fresh ﬂowers, and watch the pro
cess. Flowers which had a very slight smell when gathered would, by
'
degrees, throw off such a perfume as to ﬁll the room, and strike anyone
who came into it most forcibly. In this case the natural odour of the
ﬂower was intensiﬁed, and the bloom received no harm. At other
times, however, some liquid was apparently put upon the blossom, and an
odour not its own given to it. In that case it invariably withered,
and died very rapidly. I have frequently had ﬂowers in my button
hole scented in this way ; and the phenomena to which I refer are too
unmistakable, and have been too frequently observed, to leave any
room for doubt.
“ Great quantities of dry musk have been from time to time thrown
about in the house where our circle meets. On a late occasion it fell in
very considerable quantities over a writing-desk at which a lady was
sitting, in the act of writing letters. It was mid-day, and no one was
near at the time, yet the particles of musk were so numerous as to
272 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
‘
l
pervade the whole contents of the desk. They were placed, for no l
throwing would have produced such a result, at the very bottom of the
desk, and between the papers which it contained. The odour was. most
pronounced ,' and the particles, when gathered together, made up a
considerable packet. Some time after this, when at a séance, I saw
something which looked like luminous dust on the table. No odour
was perceptible, but in my clairvoyant state I saw a heap of luminous
particles which appeared to me extremely brilliant. I described it, and
putting out my hand I found that there really was a heap on the table.
I inquired what it was, and music was rapped out. We demurred, for
no odour was perceptible, but the statement was reiterated. After the
séance we gathered up the dust, which looked like musk, but had no
smell whatever. The next morning, however, the odour was powerful
enough ,' and the powder still exists, and is indubitably very good
powdered musk. By what imaginable process can that phenomenon
have been accomplished?
“ I remember another occasion, amongst several, when, after a
séance, I was walking up and down smoking a cigar. The odour of strong
perfume was distinctly perceptible, in spite of the tobacco. On the
table lay a blotting pad of white paper. My eye fell on
it,
and
I
asked,
on the spur of the moment, whether some scent could not be sprinkled
so that we could see
it
there. The request was at once and repeatedly
complied with. The paper was drenched, and the odour from it was
very pronounced twenty-four hours afterwards. One of the astonishing
points connected with this matter
is
the quantity of liquid that
is
pro
duced. The table
is
covered with innumerable stains
,'
and if they be
removed, another séance will renew them. The spray appears to fall
everywhere, for the very ﬁre-irons bear traces of its presence
3
and
I
am quite sure that the housemaid’s opinion of the manifestation would
not be complimentary to the invisible operators.
“
I
must omit much that might be said, but in conclusion
I
append
an account of one remarkable manifestation, for which
I
am indebted
to the kindness of a friend who was present. Our hands were all
joined in a cluster in the middle of the table, and the quantity of
liquid must have exceeded half an ounce at least.
STATEMENT BY MR. PERCIVAL.
“ In compliance with your request,
I
will describe as brieﬂy as possible
what occurred at the dark séance held on the evening of March 18th, 1874,
when scent was produced so abundantly in the presence of Mrs. S. and
myself, while you were in estate of trance. The controlling spirit began by
speaking through you at some length, and we were told to expect unusual
manifestations. They commenced with
a
strongly-scented breeze, which
passed softly round the circle, its course being marked by
a
pale light. In
a few minutes
it
suddenly changed, and blew upon us with considerable
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 273
force, as if a pair of bellows had been employed, and the temperature of the
room was perceptibly lowered. After this liquid scent was sprinkled upon
us several times : it appeared to come from the top of the room, and fell
upon us in small drops. Finally we were told that a new manifestation
would be attempted, and that we were to prepare for it by joining hands and
holding the palms upwards. In this position we waited for two or three
minutes, and then I felt a stream of liquid scent poured out, as it were, from
the spout of a teapot, which fell on one side of my left hand, and ran down
upon the table. The same was done for Mrs. S. ; and to judge from our
impressions at the time, and from the stains on the table, a very considerable
quantity must have been produced. I may remark, in conclusion, that there
was no scent in the room before the séance, and that we could distinguish
several different perfumes which made the atmosphere so oppressive that we
were glad to seek a purer air so soon as the séance came to an end.
“F. W. P.”
* * -x- * -x- r
“ The ﬁrst occasion on which we saw the large luminous appearances
with which we were for a time so familiar was on June 7th, 1873. By
that tim we had become very familiar with the ﬂoating masses of
luminous vapour which I have before noticed ; and on several occasions
we had seen these masses condensed, so to say, until a distinct objective
light was formed. On this evening, however, at an ordinary séanCe, I
felt my chair withdrawn from the table to the distance of three or
four feet, and I was partially entranced, but not so completely as to
prevent me from recalling what happened. A number of cones of soft
light similar to moonlight appeared in succession, until a dozen or more
had been made. They presented the appearance of a nucleus of soft
yellow light, surrounded by a soft haze. They sailed up from a corner
of the room and gradually died out. The most conspicuous was shaped
like a mitre and was 8 or 9 inches in height. This was the ﬁrst time
we saw lights of this description, and we determined to extemporise a
cabinet for the purpose of developing them. This was simply done by
throwing open the door between two rooms, and hanging in the door
way a curtain with a square aperture in the middle of it. On one side
of the curtain a table was put for the sitters ; on the other side I was
placed in an easy-chair, and was soon in a state of deep trance, from
which I never woke until the séance was concluded. What then took
place is described in the records of friends who were present. Large
globes of light such as I have described above sailed out of the aperture
and went into the room where the sitters were placed. They are described
as of the same soft, pale hue, like moonlight. They were sufﬁciently
bright to illumine the lintel and door posts, and to cast a strong reﬂec
tion into the room. Within the gauzy envelope was a bright point of
concentrated light, and the size varied considerably. The cone shape
predominated, but some were like a dumb-bell, and others like a mass
27% The Experiences of W. Stainto'n Moses.
of luminous vapour revolving round and falling over a central nucleus
of soft yellow light. They seem to have been carried in a materialised
hand, a ﬁnger of which was shown at request by placing it in front of
the nucleus of light. Round each was soft drapery, the outline of
which was usually perfectly distinct.
“ I append an account kindly furnished me by my friend Dr. Thom
son, of 4, Worcester Lawn, Clifton [now dead] :-
“The manifestations began with a luminous haze surrounding a small
point of bluish light, which latter gradually increased in size, apparently at
the expense of the surrounding hazy envelope, as it seemed to diminish as
the point of light increased, till it attained the size of one’s closed ﬁst. At
this size it remained for some time, until one of the sitters expressed dis
appointment at its not coming further into the room in which we were seated.
The mass of light then gradually enlarged till it became in bulk equal to an
ordinary sized water-melon. At the same time it approached us to apparently
within 5 feet of where we were sitting. At this time the perfumes which
had been brought during the earlier part of the evening were again showered
down upon us. The appearance of the light reminded me strongly of what
I have seen when an electric discharge is passed through an exhausted tube,
with the exception, of course, of the latter being momentary, whereas in the
present case the light continued more or less for nearly an hour. During the
latter part of the séance, the light emitted from this source was suﬂiciently
intense to light up the whole of the doorway opposite to which we were
placed ; but it struck me that the intensity of the light was feeble as com
pared with ordinary light, as it did not extend beyond a few feet from the
source.
” '
“I have reserved for separate description some very remarkable
phenomena which occurred at four consecutive séances on August 9th,
10th, 11th, and 12th, 1873. I was on a holiday excursion with the
same friends who have witnessed from the ﬁrst the development of the
phenomena that I have described. The weather was lovely, the scenery
grand, and, mentally and physically, we were in a harmonious condition.
Nothing heavier than the Spectator had engaged my mind, and my pen
had composed nothing more serious than a gossiping letter. No im
portunate editor clamoured for ‘
copy,’ and the stiﬂing August heat of
London was exchanged for the balmy air of a charming lough in the
North of Ireland. Our days were spent in a boat, lazily ﬂogging the
water to tempt the wary trout t0 rise—exercise enough to invigorate
without tiring, while the jaded mind took rest, and the body was
refreshed by scenes of beauty. It is under such circumstances that
the physique is in most perfect order, and the mysterious force which
is used for these manifestations is generated most rapidly, while the
harmonious mental state disposes to complete passivity. I do not envy
the possessor of a mind so ill-regulated and a body so dyspeptic as to
fail of happiness in such surroundings. Accordingly, as might be
expected, our invisible friends were not slow to avail themselves of the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 275
improved conditions. A synopsis of what actually occurred is carefully
compiled from notes written in detail at the time [by Dr. Speer], and
which have been kindly placed at my disposal :—
STATEMENT BY DR. SPEER.
“ On the 10th of August, after some other phenomena, a large globe of
light rose from the side of the table opposite to me, and sailed up to the level
of our faces, and then vanished. It was followed by several more, all of
which rose up from the side opposite to me, and sometimes to the right and
sometimes to the left of the medium. At request the next light was placed
slowly in the centre of the table. It was apparently as large as a shaddock,
and was surrounded with drapery. At this time the medium was entranced,
and the controlling spirit informed me that he would endeavour to place the
light in the medium’s hand. Failing in this, he said he would knock on the
table in front of me. Almost immediately a light came and stood on the
table close to me. ‘You see ; now listen, I will knock.’ Very slowly the
light rose up, and struck three distinct blows on the table. ‘
Now I will show
you my hand.’ A large, very bright light then came up, and inside of it
appeared the materialised hand of the spirit. He moved the ﬁngers about
close to my face. The appearance was as distinct as can be conceived. The
power having become exhausted, he exhorted me to wake the medium, make
him wash his face and hands in cold water, and to tell him nothing till that
had been done. He also insisted on my writing a close account of what had
been done.
“ On the following evening I placed the paper containing the account on
the table, together with a pencil, and asked that the light might be brought
down upon it. This was done several times. The medium having become
entranced, I requested the controlling spirit to append his signature to the
document, if it were possible to do so. He said he would try. He then
brought a very large and bright light, and passed it up and down over the face
of the entranced medium, so that I could see it distinctly. He told me that
the folds which I saw round the light were drapery, and to prove it he
brought the light and passed the drapery over the back of my hand several
times. It was perfectly tangible. I asked that a light might be placed close
to my face. He assented, and told me to close my eyes until told to open
them. I did so, and on opening them I saw close to my eyes a large and very
bright light, the size of the globe of a moderator lamp. He told me to rub
my hands so as to generate more power, and very soon another large light,
held by a hand, appeared on the table. This time the hand appeared to be
outside of the drapery, and moved the ﬁngers about freely, and receded from
the light, as though the lamp were held in another hand. After other lights
had been shown, I heard the pencil moving, and repeating his admonition of
the previous evening, he departed, leaving on the paper a specimen of direct
spirit caligraphy.
“ I have omitted to say that the way of renewing the light when it grew
dim was by making passes over it with the hand. The lights were of the
kind described previously, and consisted of a nucleus which was said to be
brought by the controlling spirit, surrounded by a luminous haze, and an
envelope of drapery. They varied in size and luminosity, and seemed to be
276 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
more easily and fully developed when I rubbed my hands together or on my
coat. At one time a portion of a forearm was distinctly visible, and the hand
containing the light was pressed very distinctly on mine as it lay on the table.
I may add that all the cases recorded by me occurred when no other sitter
was present but myself. “ S.T.S.”
“These strange phenomena have now ceased for some time past.
The drain on the vital strength of the medium was too great to be con
tinued. As it was, the experiments made were attended by very great
subsequent prostration, and the phase passed away, as the levitations
described in Chapter I. ceased after a time. In the one case I strongly
objected to the manifestation ; in the other harm ensued. Both have
therefore ceased.
“ Since the commencement of the present year we have had another
kind of light altogether, which is still shown occasionally. It is
apparently a little round disc of light, which twinkles like a star. It has
a dark side, which is generally turned towards me, so that while other
sitters have been carrying on a conversation, the answers being given
by this light, I have not been able to see it at all. It is very much
brighter than the large light, and more like a star. It ﬂashes with
great rapidity, and answers questions by the usual code of signals. The
light usually hovers over my head, sometimes coming into the circle,
but more frequently ﬂoating in a distant corner of the room. It is not
apparently solid, nor does it seem to be surrounded with drapery.
“ On a few occasions, not more than half a dozen, we have observed
a bright scintillating light, which apparently rests on the mantel-shelf.
It is about the size of a pigeon’s egg, and looks like a large diamond lit
up with strong light.
“ I have reserved for the last a description of the most remarkable
light, of quite a different kind, that I have ever heard or read of. It
appeared in greatest intensity on the eve of the year 187 3, and has
since reappeared ﬁve times. On each occasion it diminished in
brilliancy, and when last it was seen had lost almost all its striking
character. It has not been seen for more than ﬁfteen months now. In
this, as in much that I notice here, I rely for my description on notes
carefully taken at the time, and which now lie before me. When the
light was ﬁrst seen I was so far under inﬂuence as to render my powers
of observation worthless, and before it had attained its full dimensions
and brilliancy I was deeply entranced. The description given by the
sitters is fortunately very minute. The light was ﬁrst observed directly
behind us. At that time it was a tall column, about half an inch or
rather more in width, and six or seven feet high. The light was of a
bright golden hue, and did not illuminate objects in its neighbourhood.
For a minute a cross developed at its top, and rays seemed to dart from
it. Round my head was a similar sort of halo to that which clair~
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 277
voyants describe round the heads of some persons, only in this case it
was perceptible by natural vision, for one of the sitters put out his
hand to ascertain the locality of the rays which he saw, and placed his
ﬁngers directly on the top of my head. At this time I was not so deeply
entranced as to be unable to hear what was said, and, at request, I
moved my body from side to side. As I moved, the ray moved with
me, and the removal of my body discovered to the opposite sitter a
cluster of scintillating light, of an oblong shape, about the size of a
saucer, at the foot of the long pencil or ray before described. As my
body resumed its position it hid the lower part of the long ray of light
from view. Soon, however, the cross—as it had then become—com
menced to move, and gradually travelled from my back to my right
hand, always on or near the wall, until it had passed over an arc of 90°.
My friend, who had been watching this strange phenomenon with
absorbing interest, requested to be permitted to examine it more closely.
Leave having been given, he rose from his chair, went to the light, put
his face close to
it,
and passed his hand through it. He detected no
odour, nor did the light disappear as he touched it. No warmth came
from
it,
nor did
it
light up the room perceptibly. Both the long ray
and cluster remained visible until the séance was concluded.
“The sound which has since developed to such an extent was ﬁrst
heard by us on March 23rd, 1873. At that time it resembled the
plucking of a string in mid air. It was faint, and only presented
itself at intervals. We called it the Lyre sound, for want of a better
name, and could make nothing out about
it,
except that a certain
imitation of it could be made by slightly touching the wires of a piano
at the upper notes. It could have been more perfectly imitated by
plucking the small strings of a harp, had one been at hand.
I
succeeded
also in making some resemblance to
it
by drawing my ﬁnger over the
Wires of a musical clock which hangs on the wall of the room adjoining
that in which we usually sit. This clock
is
distinctly audible to us in
the Seance-room, and soon its sound was counterfeited to perfection.
Although
I
could not exactly make out how
it
was done,
I
supposed
that the piano or clock must be used in some way to make a sound
Which seemed to be in mid-air. This theory was soon upset, for the
sound came in rooms where there was no musical instrument
;
even in
my own bedroom, where sometimes the sound has been so loud as to be
distinctly audible through the wall in an adjoining room. Two months
after its ﬁrst appearance,
it
had become so loud that the vibration of
the table was very marked. The sound would traverse the room and
seem to die away in the distance, and suddenly burst forth into great
power over the table, which appeared in some inexplicable way to be
used as a. sounding-board. The wood of the table vibrated under our
hands exactly as
it
would have done had a ViOlOnCGllO been twanged
278 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
while resting upon it. It was no question of fancy or delusion. The
sounds were at times deafening, and alternated between those made by
the very small strings of a harp and such as would be caused by the
violent thrumming of a Violoncello resting on the top of a drum.
Sometimes in our midst, sometimes distant and soft, sometimes the
bass and treble sounds alternating, the sounds were the most inexplic
able that I have ever heard. When they once became established, they
were made almost continuously. We never sat without them, and they
formed almost the staple phenomenon of the séance. With them, as
with other phenomena, great variety was caused by good or bad con
ditions. Just as illness or atmospheric disturbance made the perfumes
and drapery coarse and unreﬁned, so the lyre sound became harsh,
unmusical, and wooden. It seemed to be far more dependent then on
material accessories. The table was used until at times the musical
twang would shade into a sort of musical knock, and ﬁnally become
an ordinary dull thud upon the table. Sometimes, too, we heard a
very distinct imitation, purposely done, I think, of a loose string.
‘Vhen things were not all right, the sound would assume a most
melancholy, wailing character, which was indescribably weird and
saddening. It was not unlike the soughing of wind through trees in the
dead of night; a ghost-like dreary sound that few persons would sit
long to listen to. That sound was always accompanied by black
darkness in the room, and we were always glad to take the hint and
close the sitting as soon as we could. We invariably found afterwards
that there had been some reason for this sadness.
“No point, indeed, connected with these strange sounds is more
remarkable than the intensity of feeling conveyed by them. They
contrive to render all the varieties of emotion which are conveyed by
the human voice. Anger and sadness, content and mirth, solemnity
and eagerness, are conveyed in a way quite inexplicable. In answering
our questions sometimes an eager and rapid request for alphabet will
be struck out, the notes and the quickness with which they are sounded
conveying precisely the idea of eagerness which a sharp interruption
by an impatient listener would give. The wailing sounds above
noticed seem at times almost to sob and shriek as if in a burst of sad
ness. Sometimes to a question put silence will be maintained for a
while, and then little, hesitating sounds will be made, very slowly and
tremulously, so as to convey perfectly the idea of uncertainty and
doubt. Then again the reply will come clear, sonorous, and immediate
as the ‘
I do’ of a witness in the box who has no doubt as to the
answer he should give.
“As one instance amongst many to illustrate this intelligence in
sound, I record the following. Following our usual custom, we had
inquired as to the invisible intelligence which governed the sound, and
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 279
received full particulars as to his life in the body. These were so
minute that I had no difﬁculty in verifying them from a Biographical
Dictionary. After we had become thoroughly used to the sounds and
to the alleged maker of them [Grocynz see later] a book came out
which contained some incidental particulars of his life. It fell into
the hands of one of our circle, who read
it,
got up the facts, and took
opportunity of questioning about them. For a time all was light
;
but
on being asked whether he remembered a certain name which was
long and difﬁcult to pronounce, a negative was returned. ‘But you
must,
I
think?’ ‘No.’ ‘Why, he was your tutor
'I’
‘No.’ ‘You
do not remember, but he was.’ A tremendous irritable negative was
given. ‘The book says so.’ ‘No,’ in violent, angry accents; ‘the
book does not say so; and
it
is
imperfect besides.’ Other questions
were put, and answers returned in the same sharp, irritable tone,
sometimes ﬂatly contradicting, sometimes correcting, assertions made.
At last, calling for alphabet, the correct names were—what shall
I
say Z—roared out
,'
and on reference to the book
it
was found that
they were correct. The names were long, and the questioner had
forgotten and mispronounced them. No greater evidence of intelligence
could be conceived‘ than this. The tone was just the tone of an excited
disputant, or of a man angry at having his word disputed when he
knew he was right.
I
had never seen the book from which the queries
were propounded. Some of the facts given were not contained in
it
at all
;
others which had been wrongly stated were corrected promptly
and decisively; and in no case was a slip made.
I
wonder where the
Unconscious Cerebration came from then?
I
do not believe any
person could have been present on that occasion, and have heard the
answers and the way in which they were given, without carrying
away the conviction that a real individuality, with real feelings,
passions, and mental attributes had been present, albeit invisible to
the eye of sense. And
if
he had talked with this invisible as often as
Awe have during more than a year past, he would have had no diﬁiculty
in bearing testimony to the reality of disembodied existence, and of the
perpetuation of mental individuality and idiosyncrasy.
I
should have
no more difﬁculty in recognising this sound again than
I
should in
recalling the features and voice of any old friend from whom
I
might
chance to be separated. The individuality
is
not more real in one case
than in the other.
“ But
I
am dealing with sounds now. Identity will come in its
turn, and
I
shall be able to make out a strong case,
I
think. For the
present
I
return to the immediate question.
“The sounds used always to commence near the circle, and, so to
say, radiate from
it
as a centre into different parts of the room. Of
late they have changed, and are' usually audible to me before they
280 The Experiences of W. Stainto'n, Moses.
strike the ear of any other person. How far this may be attributable
to clairaudience, a faculty lately developed in me, I cannot say posi
tively. But at any rate, they seem to me to commence by a distant
rumble, not unlike the roll of a drum.
'
This gradually draws nearer
ntil it is audible to all, and the old sounds are in our midst.
“Nor are they conﬁned to the séance-room, though they never occur
anywhere else with anything like the readiness and intensity with
which they are made in that room, into which no other but our own
circle who sit regularly is ever admitted. There' they are ﬁnest both
in tone and power. But they have been heard with great frequency
in other places where we have chanced to be, in strange rooms alto
ether, in different parts of the country where I may have been staying,
and even in the open air, under very curious circumstances. We were
at Southend this spring, where there is a pier more than a mile in
length. My friend [Dr. Speer] and I had taken our books and were
sitting at the extreme end, looking out to sea, when raps came very
distinctly on the rail in front of us. We ascertained that the sound
was there without doubt, and proceeded to experiment upon the
distance at which it could be heard. I placed my hands on the topmost
rail, and my friend walked on, putting his ear to the wood from time to
time. The raps were clear and metallic, and well known to us at our
séance. They followed us all along the pier, and were audible at a
great distance, as indeed any sound is if made on a long wooden rail.
This was at 4 o’clock in the afternoon. At 8 pm. we went on to the
pier again for the purpose of experimenting in a dim light. However,
a bright full moon shone overhead, and though it was quiet it was not
even dusk. The clear metallic rap was plainly audible at a distance of
ﬁfty yards from me. As we were trying whether it could be heard at
a greater distance, the musical sounds rang out as clear and resonant
as in a closed room. They were distinctly audible to both of us when
we were seventy yards apart, and were apparently made in the space
between us. At any rate the sound was not near either of us, but
seemed to come from a distance. Had the night been dark I believe
the sound would have been considerably intensiﬁed. As it was it rang
out with all the characteristics which it possesses in a closed room, and
that at a distance of some 800 or 900 yards from land.
“Hitherto I have mentioned only the stringed musical sounds which
i
ﬁrst appeared and were gradually developed : the various sounds, as it
were, of a harp, from the tiny strings down to the deepest bass notes.
But there are other sounds which professedly emanate from the same
source, and which resemble the sound of a tambourine played over our
heads, or, at times, the ﬂapping of a pair of large wings. The tambourine
sound hovers over the circle, and sometimes gets away to a distance,
changing almost instantaneously into the twanging of a string. Of
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 281
late, other sounds, like those made by a small zither, have presented
themselves. They are very minute, rather metallic sounds, and are
seven in number, graduated at regular intervals. I have never heard
a zither played, but I am told by those who have that these sounds
accurately imitate that instrument. They are quite distinct from the
sounds which I have described before. Unfortunately, I have no tune
in my composition ; if it were otherwise, I have no doubt that actual
melodies would be played.
“The nearest approach to a distinct melody occurred on a late
occasion. We sat on two consecutive evenings ,' once alone, and once
with a. friend who occasionally joins our circle. On each occasion the
sounds were very marked. When alone, we sit in a smaller room, and
there the sounds come out most distinctly; the sound as of a very
tense string plucked by a ﬁnger nail. Three strings are distinguishable,
and very musical were the notes produced from them. On the next
evening these three strings were again presented, and in addition to
them, another set of seven, much less tensely drawn, and giving forth
a lower scale of sounds. I write without technical knowledge, and am
somewhat at a loss to convey my meaning ; but what struck me was
that these two sets of sound were graduated in pitch, and harmonised
relatively to each other. They represented two instruments, the one
of three, the other of seven strings, and they were used in playing
thus z—Certain notes were sounded upon the three strings, and these
were followed by a run made as if by running a ﬁnger-nail rapidly
over the strings of the other instrument. The result was like what
musical cognoscenti call ‘
a free prelude’ ; what I should describe as a
series of notes, highly pitched, clear, and liquid in their melody,
followed by a rapid run on an instrument of lower pitch. I speak of
instruments, but it is necessary to state that there was in the room—
an ordinary dining-room—no musical instrument of any kind whatever.
I am indebted to the friend who has been most interested in observing
the phenomenon from its ﬁrst appearance for the subjoined account,
which supplements technical deﬁciencies in my own description :—
STATEMENT BY DR. SPEER.
“ ‘
The sound which I am about to describe, which was heard in our
circle for the ﬁrst time on March 23rd, 1873, has been one of the most
constant and persistent of all the manifestations with which we
have become acquainted since commencing our investigation into the
phenomena of Spiritualism, having, during the space of ﬁfteen months,
almost invariably presented itself at each sitting. By referring to my
notes I ﬁnd it described as ‘a sound like that of a stringed instrument,
played, or rather plucked, in mid-air, while there was no stringed
instrument in the room.’ Every attempt was subsequently made to
ascertain through what substance the sound could be evolved. Objects
282 The Experiences
of.
W. Stainton Moses.
of every description were struck against one another with a view to
elicit a similar sound, but in vain
;
and
it
at last became patent that
the sounds were formed independently of any material substance. In
process of time, the character of the sound became more and more
individualised, and its locality more diversiﬁed. It would appear at
one time as though emanating from a distant part of the room, and of
feeble intensity. At another time, the ﬁrst intimation of its presence—
I
speak of
it,
as a phenomenon, but, as was subsequently shown,
indicative of a presence—would be the striking apparently of a tense,
metallic, or catgut string, over the centre of the table, and not un
frequently upon the table itself. In process of time, the manifestation
became most extraordinary. It was almost impossible (to an outsider
it
would have been absolutely impossible) not to believe that
a
large
stringed instrument, e.g., a Violoncello, a guitar, a double bass, or a
harp, was struck by powerful human ﬁngers. At times the sounds
attained such a pitch of intensity as to be almost alarming," as though,
indeed, a double bass had been placed cross—wise over the top of a large
regimental drum for a sounding-board, and then played after the
manner of a guitar—via, pizzicato. On these occasions the sitters
could distinctly feel a strong vibration transmitted from the points of
the ﬁngers in contact with the table up to the shoulder-joint.
“
‘
Before long these powerfully resonant metallic sounds were
supplemented by sounds apparently made by plucking the shortest
strings of a harp, and the two sounds would alternate with considerable
regularity. Certain evidences of intelligence having been apparent in
the manifestations, we ascertained that the sounds were in truth
evidences of the presence of individuals purporting to have long
since departed from earth-life. The intelligence was manifested ﬁrst
by answers to questions which were given in the same manner as the
raps on a table, one, two, three, ﬁve, &c. The peculiarity of the
answers was that the tone of the sounds corresponded in a- most
singular and convincing manner with the nature of the response. In
other words, the passions of individuals, as exempliﬁed on earth by
tones of speech, were here illustrated by the peculiar type and tone of
the musical sound. A harp was said to have been a favourite com
panion of the departed when in the ﬂesh
;
and several attempts were
made to elicit actual melody at various times, but the medium not being
of a musical turn of mind, this attempt invariably failed. By request,
however, scales, octaves, and thirds have been correctly played, and on
one occasion an arpeggio was very fairly rendered, and repeated several
times. S. T. SPEER.’
“I confess myself entirely unable to give any idea of the way in
which these remarkable sounds are produced. That they are made by
no material means
I
am certain, for they occur in places where no such
means are available. That they are the means taken by an Invisible
Intelligence for making his presence manifest
is
equally certain. Just
as others take a peculiar form of rap, or a special handwriting, he
takes this musical sound as his symbol. How he makes
it,
I
am as
ignorant as
I
am of the manner in which raps are produced on a table
MRS. STANHOPE SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 283
without contact. To tell me that it is done by the exercise of will
power does not help me; and that is all the explanation I can get.
That the sound is objective is plain from the fact that all hear it
alike; and if additional proof be wanted, it is found in the fact that the
table vibrates beneath the sound. It remains one of the inexplicable
mysteries which are none the less real objective facts because they are
mysteries; and for the explanation of which we must be content to
bide our time. The fact is certain. Let the theory wait.”
[From this summarised account of the earlier phenomena I pass
on to citations from the almost wholly unpublished notes of Mr. Moses
and of Dr. Speer, and from the published notes of Mrs. Speer (Light,
1892-3). Mr. Moses’ ﬁrst note-book of physical phenomena (1 B), as
already said, is missing; his note-book 2 B begins, as it happens, at
the same date as Dr. Speer’s note-book 1, viz., on November 17th, 1872,
when the little group met after an interval.
The period, April-November, 1872, covered by the missing 1 B is
covered also by Mrs. Speer’s notes, and a few direct extracts from 1 B
seem to have been printed by Mr. Moses in Light. I shall quote some
of this early matter, giving throughout Mr. Moses’ notes as the text,
and Mrs. Speer’s (signed and Dr. Speer’s (signed S.T.S.) in
notes. I may say at once that I have found no discrepancies of any
importance between the three series of records, although each narrator
tends to dwell on a different class of phenomena. Mrs. Speer attends
most to the trance-utterances (which I do not here reproduce), and
Dr. Speer to the movements of objects without contact. Mr. Moses’
own account is generally the fullest for such part of each séance as he
was in a normal state ; and where slight slips in dates, &c., occur, Mr.
Moses seems generally the most exact. In several cases one of the
recorders supplies some detail needed for the proper understanding of
the incidents which other recorders have given. None of the records
attain, or can even be said to aim at, scientiﬁc completeness ; but by
studying them in connection, and noting incidental phrases, one can
form, I think, a fairly accurate notion of what the recorders believe
to have occurred.
Mrs. Speer’s early notes describe the gradual way in which the.
phenomena began :—
March 4th, 1872.—I was taken ill, and conﬁned to my room for three
weeks. During that time my cousin brought into my room for Dr. S. to
read (she was tired of lending me books on the subject, seeing how little I'
was interested) Dale Owen’s last published work, The Debatable Land..
I accidentally took it up, and began to read, and at once my indifference
vanished, and I read and reread, till I felt my mind and curiosity so aroused
U
284 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
that I longed to get well and ﬁnd out with the help of others whether the
facts contained in this, to me, wonderful book were true or false.
March 2615h.-—I was able to leave my room, and on seeing our friend Mr.
Stainton Moses, I asked him to read the book and endeavour to discover
whether it was true or false. I had not been able to arouse my husband’s
curiosity, as he was at that time almost a Materialist. Mr. S. M. had, up
to the present period, felt as little interest in Spiritualism as ourselves, but
impressed with my great desire for knowledge upon the subject, he read the
book, and became as anxious for information as I was.1
On June 3rd Mr. S. M. and self sat with Mrs. C. and Miss A. C. We
then had raps near Mr. S. M., and a few tilts of the table ; more than we had
had before. After this we met several times, Dr. S. and Miss E. joining our
party, but nothing ever occurred except slight rapping, always near Mr. S. M.
I was getting weary of such constant failures, and my husband then proposed
having the medium, Mr. Williams, to sit with us.
After this séance we sat two or three times with Mrs. C. and her sisters,
but very little was elicited beyond numerous small raps, always in the neigh
bourhood of Mr. S. M., who was by degrees developing into a medium, and
who with Dr. S. had attended several public séances, and had been informed
at those séances that he would have great mediumistic power.
After sitting at home with various people and getting very little result,
we became tired, and proposed one evening that we would try by our
selves—Mr. S. M., Dr. S., and self. Accordingly we did so on July 30th,
1872, in the same room, and with the same table that was used when Mr.
Williams sat with us. For the ﬁrst time the raps became intelligent, and
answered a. few questions. \Ve sat again the following evening, under
the same circumstances. Raps louder and more frequent ; the table
quivered and moved several steps ; raps also answered questions—MS.
The phenomena improved during the summer; and indications of
the identity of the communicating intelligences were occasionally given.
The subject of spirit identity will, however, be more conveniently dis
cussed when the whole series of proofs, partly given by physical
phenomena, and partly by automatic writing, shall be before us.
During this summer, too, “
Imperator,” the leading guide or director of
all Mr. Moses’ phenomena, announces his advent, although not yet
giving any more personal name. I give Mr. Moses’ account of the
last sitting held before the break, after which Book 2 B and Dr.
Speer’s notes begin.—-F.W.H.M.]
September 19th.—We darkened the séance-room, leaving the gas
burning brightly in the adjoining dining-room, Dr. and Mrs. S. and I
at the table. On the floor under the table we put a piece of ruled
paper and a pencil. A corner of the paper I tore off and handed it to
Dr. S. to identify the sheet of paper if necessary. Various raps, some
1 I had previously tried in vain to read Lord Adare’s record of private se'ances
with D. D. Home. Though less than a. month before I read The Debatavble Land
I could not get through it. It had absolutely no interest for me.— S. M.
The Experiences of W. Stainto'n, Moses. 285
objects brought in, and a noise rather like sawing wood. When light
was called for Mrs. S. stooped and picked up the paper. The upper
surface was blank. Her endorsement on the back of the paper after
Facsimile reduced from original. The aper was blue, with faint
blue lines. The corner at the top right ban was torn off for identiﬁca
tion of the paper.
wards written reads: “ I took the paper from under the table with the
writing downwards,” i.e., on the surface touching the carpet. Dr. S.
and I wrote and signed this endorsement. “The above corner was
torn off by me (S. before the light was put out, and was given to
Dr. S. I (S. afterwards put the two pieces together.” They ﬁt
exactly, and are secured by a couple of halfpenny stamps, with the
initials of Dr. S. and myself upon them.
The message follows the ruled lines exactly. A facsimile is
U 2
286 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
appended, omitting only the initials of a deceased friend. The mono
gram in the left-hand corner is that of another deceased friend of
mine. It will be noticed that the writing is clearly and laboriously
executed on the ruled lines. In no case are the lines deserted. I
fancy the message is written backwards. Imperator’s signature is of
his usual decided type, very like what is automatically written by my
hand. I suspect that the message was written by two hands. Imperator
very rarely wrote before or after. The knowledge of my movements
was exact. I left for London the next morning.
'
[\Ve now come to Book 2 B, with the parallel notes of Dr. and
Mrs. Speer]
Sunday, November 17th, 1872.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I resumed
our séances. The raps were extremely loud and resonant. Ihave never
heard them more plainly. No attempt at conversation was made except
in the way of comment. Several distinct kinds of rapping were heard,
also creaking, and a peculiar kind of wheezing scratching.
‘
_ ﬂlonday, 18th.—Séance resumed. An attempt to sit inside the
curtains was not successful. Raps and knocks very resonant, just as
much so when none of us touched the table. Clouds of light visible
in the room and a form near me. The wheezing noise was present
again and raps in diﬁ'erent parts of the room. N0' conversation.
Barometric pressure low. I very tired and below par; severe cold and
cough.2
Tuesday, 19th.—Séance resumed, with similar results. In addition
the table tilted violently, and moved so as to rap on the easy chair in
which Dr. Speer was sitting. I saw a ﬁgure standing on my right
hand, which was said to be Mr. Callister. The room was ﬁlled also
with clouds of luminous vapour.3
1November17th.—Séances resumed after two months’ interval. Mrs. S.,
Mr. M ., and self.-—1st séance (about one hour). Raps and knocks very soon
obtained, about Mr. M., on his chair, on table, on cupboard of library, andin
cupboard. Knocks and taps louder than we have heard them. Table
moved half round twice. Barometer, 29§.—S.T.S.
2N0vember 18th.—Same circle—Same resultas to taps, some of which on
the table were, perhaps, even louder. N0 movement of table. Sat inside
curtain with scarcely any results. Mr. M. was tired and exhausted. \Veather
wet and gloomy. Barometer, 29 2-10. —S.T.S.
3 November 19th.—Same circle—Same results at ﬁrst, but not speedily
developed. Raps in cupboard. Table moved, tilted; remained suspended
‘on two legs at a great angle, and rapped on my chair: “\Velcome ; we
rejoice. \Vm. Cr.” Barometer, 29 2-10.
November 20th.—Same party—Sat late—10.45. All tried development
by slow knocks and taps. At length table moved round, tilted, and waved
as before. No message. Barometer, 29%. Séance about 40 mins.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 287
Frililp'y, 22nd.—Séance resumed as before. Knocks very resonant.
Tiltings of the table completely to the ﬂoor without contact; this
repeated three times. A paper-knife brought from the drawingroom
and thrown on to the table, striking me on the head in transit. On
going to my bedroom I found a small cross made out of some
Guimauve lozenges which I have for my cough. The remainder of
the packet which was not used was taken away, and I have been
unable to discover it anywhere.”1
Wednesday, November 27th.-—Séance with Mr. Williams at
Douglas House. [Mr. Williams is the well-known medium (who has
repeatedly been caught cheating). Douglas House was Dr. Speer’s
house in South Hampstead, London]
We sat (Dr. and Mrs. S. and self) for two hours absolutely without
result. We did not get even a rap. After Mr. Williams had gone I
went down to the lower room to smoke a cigar before going to bed.
As Dr. S. and I were pacing up and down the room a whole shower of
Guimauve lozenges (the remainder of the packet out of which the
cross had been made on Friday last) was violently thrown on to my
head, whence they spread over the ﬂoor round about where we were
standing. There were thirteen or fourteen of them, and that num
ber, together with the nine used in making the cross, would just about
make up the two-ounce packet which I had. I had looked in every
conceivable place for these lozenges (which were missing after the
cross was made), but could ﬁnd them nowhere.
Dr. and Mrs. S. and I then sat to see if we could elicit any com
munications. They came at once—knocks, tilts, and messages. Mrs.
S. had imagined that she was touched during the séance with Williams.
I thought not as I saw nothing—no spirit in the room. We inquired
now, and were told that no touch had been given, and no spirit had
been able to manifest at all.2
1 November 22nd.—-Same party—Began at 9.15 p.1n. Previous to sitting
Mr. M. and self sat on the harmonium stool in the study. Heard loud raps.
On sitting, raps almost immediately. Table moved very roughly, then tilted
at various angles, and kept suspended, no one being in contact. Table then
brought so close to ﬂoor as only to rest on my middle ﬁnger placed on ﬂoor,
and yet balanced in that position so delicately as to give but the slightest
feeling of pressure on the ﬁnger. The same thing occurred in the opposite
direction. For some minutes the table (no one touching it) oscillated under
my ﬁnger at angles which I have since tried and found it impossible to
maintain without tipping over at once. N.B.—Mr. M. and Mrs. S. were so
far removed as to be entirely out of contact with the table. Message spelt
out :
“ We have done all. Go l”—S.T.S.
2 November 26th [27th].—Séance. Same as before, but with the addition of
lVIr. Williams.—Room carefully prepared, cupboards all locked and pasted up.
288 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Tuesday, December 3rd.—Se'ance with Dr. and Mrs. S. in the lower
(breakfast) room. A bright ﬁre burned, and partially lit up the room.
The table used was a heavy round loo table, ﬁrm, and many times
heavier than than the small table which we have been accustomed
to use in the library, where we usually sit. Manifestations com
menced almost immediately. Raps loud and clear, but not so resonant
as on the small table, creakings on my chair and on the table. Finally
the table rose, tilted violently until it rested on Dr. S.’s ﬁnger or the
ﬂoor. It followed my hands as iron follows a magnet, and was drawn
backwards on one occasion when it rested on the ﬂoor. I tried and
found that very considerable muscular effort was necessary to stir it
at all. Yet it followed the passes of my hand. I found that my chair
was many times moved, and at length it rose in the air to the height of
eighteen inches or thereabouts, as near as I could judge. It then
dropped to the ﬂoor, and I continued my upward journey until I must
very nearly have reached the ceiling. My voice was described by Dr.
and Mrs. S. as sounding from the neighbourhood of the ceiling. Pre
sently I came down, and a light was struck. My chair was found to
be some distance from the table. When the light was put out again
my chair was taken from under me, and placed after a time on the
table. It was a heavy chair, but was placed quite gently on the
table ; and glided towards Mrs. S. The light of the ﬁre was enough for
us to see it dimly. I again felt that I was moving, and I walked away
to the end of the room to break the circle. Another table near me
then began to move, and I called for a light, objecting to any more
knocking about.
When we darkened the room again I called for Imperator, who had
never rapped all the evening. He came at last, but only rapped a
few times very faintly.l
Bells, rings, tubes, paper, pencil, 850., placed on table. Commenced at
8 p.m., and sat 40 minutes without any result whatever. It was suggested
that Mrs. S. should join. She did so for 20 minutes, without any result.
We then adjourned for tea, and on returning sat for another hour, but
without obtaining any results, although every change in the formation of the
circle was tried. We then broke up, and Mr. W. soon after departed. On
Mr. M. and myself going downstairs for a. smoke, in about 10 minutes a
shower of guimauve lozenges came rattling down on Mr. M.’s head, and were
scattered all over the ﬂoor. They had been missing for several days past.
Mr. M. suggested a short séance without \Villiams. ‘Ve again sat for
20 minutes, and almost at once obtained results—raps, turning of table,
tilting of table. We had no theory to offer for this singular failure.
November 28th.—Séance—same trio.—Power very soon manifest. A closed
box placed on table, raps on table and box and in ditto—table violently
moved several times, and struck each member in turn. Singular sounds
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 289.
illonclay, December 9th. —- Séance as usual, Douglas House.—
Imperator [name given by the leading control] came almost as soon as
we sat down. His knocks were, as usual, very distant at ﬁrst, in
creasing in intensity until at one period of the evening the table
shook as from a blow of a powerful ﬁst. Dicky [name given by a
frequent control] had very little to do. He tried once or twice to get in,
but was shut up at once by a thud and retired creaking in an injured
tone. Imperator professed his readiness to answer questions, and I
proceeded to question him as to the source from which these mani
festations came.
Question. Are these communications from spirits l—Answer. Yes.
Q. Spirits of the departed 'l-A. Yes.
Q. Are you a spirit once incarnated l—A. Yes.
Q. You have been in the ﬂesh 'l—A. Yes.
Q. Is the account given of these manifestations by spirits true 2—
A. I don’t know. ~
Q. Is what you tell us true [l—A. Yes (emphatically).
Q. 'Then are these manifestations from the spirits of the departed ?—
A. Yes.
Q. There is no mistake about that ’l—A. No.
Q. And you yourself are a departed spirit l—A. Yes (three very
loud knocks, startling in their intensity).
Q. And others associated with you are spirits of the departed l——
A. Yes.
Q. Any who are not 'I—A. No.
Q. Do you know the little French child who professed to be Dr.
Spieer’s sister ’l—A. No.
Q. YVere you there when she came 'l—A. N0.
Q. Did Miss Kirkland come l—A. Yes.
Q. Was it Miss K. really ?—A. Yes.
emanated from box. Sawing closely imitated, ditto driving in of nails. Raps
of Imperator soon heard, and became exceedingly strong, almost alarmingly
so to a neophyte. Message :
‘ ‘
Stop.” Séance then broken.
Saturday, November 30th.—-Same séance. Raps, tilts as usual on table,
on a box placed on table, and on a suspended box, which box was twirled
round and round several times without contact of any kind. Imperator
manifested loudly, as usual, but suddenly departed—ST. S.
1December 3rd. —Séance downstairs at large round table. Manifestations
slow, some complaining of same ; the table suddenly tilted up with consider
able force, and oscillated at a great angle. This occurred several times.
Mr. M. was moved about, and ﬂoated twice, and a large dining-room chair
was placed on the table. I, sitting in a large, heavy armchair, was for the
ﬁrst time distinctly moved.—S.T.S. Sat in ﬁrelight.—-M.S.
290 The Experiences of W. Stai'nton Moses.
Q. Are you sure 'I—A. Yes, yes.
Q. Did you write that message the other night Z—A. No.
Q. Were you there when it was written ’l—A. No.
Q. You did not come because Dr. Speer offended you ’l—A. Yes.
(Dr. S. again apologised, and the apology was received with a series
of stately raps, suggestive of bows.)
Q. Then your absence let in an evil or lying spirit l—A. Yes.
Q. Are we liable to that 'l—A. Yes.
Q. Then you do leave me ’l—A. N0.
Q. Not usually, you mean 'l—A. Yes.
Q. Then we must be guarded and careful to sit with solemnity, and
follow guidance ’l—A. Yes.
Q. You are good ‘Z—A. Yes.
Q. I solemnly charge and adjure you in the name of God that you
tell the truth. Are you a good spirit, once incarnated in the ﬂesh?
——A. Yes.
(Three of the loudest knocks I ever heard. We all involuntarily
drew in our breath, and a feeling of awe stole over us.)
Q. It is true, then, that departed spirits can return. Do you know
Mr. C. i—A. Yes.
Q. Is he here ?—A. No.
Q. Can you fetch him Z—A. Yes—Do so.
The room, which had been ﬁlled (especially round me) with ﬂoating
clouds of light, grew suddenly dark, and absolute stillness took the
place of the previous loud knockings. It would have been a strange
scene for an ear-witness. The table, isolated, with no human hand
touching
it,
giving forth a series of mysterious thuds of varying
intensity, some of which might have been made by a mufﬂed sledge
hammer, all indicating intelligence
;
an intelligence that showed itself.
by deliberation, or eagerness, or stately solemnity, according to the
nature of the communication. Round the table three persons sitting
with a bush of expectation, and faces
(if
they could have been seen)
of awe-stricken earnestness
;
a question put, and a loud response,
another, and a series, as though by a counsel cross-examining a dumb
witness. The room shrouded in total darkness, except at one end,
where shifting masses of luminous vapour now and again gathered
into a pillar which dimly outlined a form, and again dispersed and
ﬁitted round the head of one of the sitters. N0 scene could be
imagined more calculated to strike a novice with awe, none more
solemn and impressive for those who participated in it. The Witch
of Endor was not more surprised when her unholy incantation evoked
the shade of Samuel than
I
was when Imperator in answer to my
solemn adjuration professed himself to be a departed spirit.
I
had for
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 291
some time leaned to the opinion that the spirits—if spirits they
were—were not departed ones. Dr. S. had leaned to the same notion,
so that the Unconscious Cerebration theory fails to meet this case.1 It
must be, I think, what it pretends to be—a message of truth from a
denizen of the spheres, who has passed the probation of life and has
been permitted to return to the world in which he once lived, and
whose communications, though imperfect, are sincere.
After being absent about three minutes, Imperator returned, and
his commanding thuds drew our attention. They were at once followed
by knocks of a different description to any which we had yet heard.
We inquired whether Mr. C. were present 1 Yes. Q. Are you the
spirit of my old friend 'l—A. Yes—Q. Who died so-and-so, and so'and
so. . . . ?——A. Yes. Q. Can you give me any test 'l—A. Yes.
The table then knocked T R I N I T Y. It was a test to me. My
friend shortly before his death had been perplexed about theological
questions, and once had written to me to say he had been lying awake
on Trinity Sunday morning trying to realise the Trinity and had failed.
He asked me for an explanation of the doctrine, and I had written to
him on the subject.
The knocks ceased and Imperator returned. We requested that
Dicky might be allowed to tilt the table, and it was at once done ; but
Imperator soon stopped him, and bid us good-night. So closed a most
impressive séance ; in which the opinion of the intelligences themselves
declared unmistakably for the Theory of Departed Spirits. Though this
would not form any strong argument to convince one who had made up
his mind in an opposite direction, still it must be allowed to have its
weight Taken in connection with other collateral evidence such as the
materialised spirit form, the strongly marked individuality which per
vades communications from each particular spirit, the totally different
nature of the knock in each case, and the fact of certain tests being
given, the balance of evidence must be allowed to be strong.
For instance, I see a materialised form which bears resemblance to
a deceased friend (Step No. l). I see that form standing by during the
progress of phenomena (Step No. 2). A knock different from any
other is given (Step No. 3). That knock gives a communication
which purports to come from the person whose form I see near me
(Step No. 4). Questioned, that communicating intelligence asserts in
the most solemn manner that it is what it pretends to be, and per
sists in that statement on being adjured (Step No. 5). On being
further pressed a test known only to myself is given to prove identity
1
Mr. Moses here fails to realise the possibility that opinions not held by our
ordinary selves may nevertheless be held and expressed by the unconsciousor sub
liminal part of our being—F. W. H. M.
292 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
(Step No. 6). That information is conﬁrmed by other communicating
intelligences, who knock with their own special knock, and are
apparently distinct individualities (Step N0. 7).
This forms a strong link of evidence in favour of the theory
advanced by the intelligences themselves. On the other side is the
manifest fact that communications purporting to come from our
deceased friends are not always trustworthy, and that they are
generally marked by evidences of intellectual weaknesses. It may be
that the falsehoods are traceable to lying spirits who personate spirits
of good, and that the low order (intellectually speaking) of the com—
munications may be accounted for by the tortuous channel through
which they come and the medium through which they have been
ﬁltered. But the explanation is not perfectly satisfactory. And
there is the additional stumbling-block that it is primafacie extremely
unlikely that the spirits of the noble, the learned, and the pure
should be concerned in the production of physical and intellectual
phenomena which, when not silly, are frequently mischievous, and
when distinctly true are not new, and being new are not true. The
argument that God permits for the establishment of a fading faith
manifestations such as these would satisfactorily dispose of all objec
tions. A similar rough and ready form of argument would explain
everything that is obscure and reduce all investigation as to the cause
of things within very narrow limits. God permits
it,
or it would not
exist. The fact that it exists because He permits it
is
no more an
explanation than would be the converse, that He permits
it
because
it
exists. Speculations as to the motives which sway the Deity are
utterly fruitless, and presumptions as to what
is
or
is
not likely are
worse than fruitless.
I
have seen enough to convince me that every
thing
is
likely, and that nothing
is
likely; and
I
have come to the
conclusion that one fact
is
worth one thousand theories. No theory
that
I
know of will explain everything, simply because we are ex
plaining a terra incognita and dealing with the impalpable, which we
cannot grasp, and the unknown, which we cannot in our present state
of existence expect to fathom.
The theory of the Spiritualists—tho theory advanced by the
intelligences themselves—is that which seems to me the roundest
and most coherent. But “round” theories are suspicious, and the
suspicions in this case are aggravated by the manifestly untrue
character of many of the communications given by these intelligences.
The voice from beyond the grave
is
uncertain, and when
it
can be
tested frequently delusive,
if
not absolutely and mischievously false.
So
I
fancy that a wise man will still return as his verdict, “Not
Proven.”
The Experiences of W. Stai'nton llloses. 293
[Mr. Moses came in a few months more to believe completely in the
actual identity of the communicating intelligences. But this passage
in his diary tends to show (what on other testimony also I believe to
have been the case) that he was by no means anxious to believe in, or
to defer to, the claims of alleged “spirit guides.” His previous Anglican
convictions were very strong ; and his intellectual habit of mind in
clined rather to the side of. stubbornness than of pliancy.—-F.\V.H.M.1
Thursday, December 12th.—D0uglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and I.—
The séance was short. I questioned Imperator as to a vision I had had on
the previous night. He said that he had appeared to me. He was some
what different in appearance to what had been described. I asked
whether I should see him again. He knocked out :
“ Watch.” The clouds
of light, which had gathered as usual round me, lifted and went to my
right hand. They condensed gradually into a pillar, and ﬁnally into a
form, majestic, stately and noble in mien. The body was draped as with
a toga, though that might simply have been the spirit drapery. The right
arm was extended and pointed towards me. The face was the face of my
vision, though not so distinct. I asked that I might be touched, and
the ﬁgure slowly stepped towards me, but did not touch me. Finally
it faded away very gradually until it was dissipated in luminous mist.
Dr. and Mrs. S. saw misty light, but nothing more. I asked who
it was, and “ Myself
”
was rapped out in Imperator’s knocks.
Monday, December l5tlz.--Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. 8., Mr.
Aug. Eves, and myself—Imperator never appeared. Dicky brought
in two pieces of an ivory puzzle from the drawing-room, and a handful
of sugar from the dining-room. The introduction of a new member
utterly quashed all intellectual manifestations. This seems to me most
undesirable, though in this case inevitable.
December 16th.—-Dr. and Mrs. Speer and self alone, Douglas
House—Mrs. Speer explained to Mr. Eves that he must not join the
circle, as it was objected to by the spirits. We had no sooner sat down
than distant knocks of Imperator came.1 They increased rapidly in
intensity, and the alphabet was called for at once. The knocks were
very loud, irritable and rapid. Several messages were given. “If
you alter the circle I will withdraw all manifestations.” “ It is
difficult enough without your making it harder.” “ Never again, under
any circumstances.” On Mrs. Speer explaining that she did not know,
the irritable rejoinder came with knocks of vast power: “You ought
to have known.” I remonstrated with Imperator On his violence, and
he knocked more quietly. Having more than once reiterated, “Never
1 Five knocks form a conventional request to have the alphabet spelt out, that a
knock may be given at each letter of the intended message.—F.\V.H.M.
294 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
again,” he told us to look under the table, and we found a piece of
paper which we had put there perfectly clean, now covered with the
encil marks of which the accompanying is a fac-simile :—
H A l a
The knocks were awful in their intensity, and so loud as to be
plainly heard in the breakfast-room on the ﬂoor below. The com
municating intelligence was of a most imperious description, little dis
posed to brook opposition, and showed a power which gave one an
uncomfortable notion that he was quite able to break our heads if it so
pleased him. Evidently the circle must not be added to without dis
tinct permission. And no wonder. A delicate experiment may be
vitiated by the most triﬂing alterations in conditions. And we know
nothing of the conditions except that they are governed by laws of
which we know little, which the spirits require before they can carry
on their higher work of intellectual manifestation. Interference with
draws the higher, and sends one back again to creaking chairs and
physical marvels. Imperator justly resents such interference.
December 19th.—-In the evening Dr. and Mrs. S. and self sat in
the study. After some knocks and tiltings, Imperator entranced me
for the ﬁrst time in the presence of Dr. and Mrs. Speer. Mrs. Speer
proceeded to hold a long conversation with him. She describes the
voice as quite unlike my own, very slow and measured, calm and very
digniﬁed. He said that he had inﬂuenced Mrs. S. to inquire into
Spiritualism ; that he was here now 3 that he (Imperator) had diﬂiculty
in communicating through me on account of my ill-health and want of
perfect faith in the manifestations, or rather, in their origin. Psychic
force, he said, was true enough. He wished Dr. and Mrs. S. to sit
with me for ten minutes after he had left, so as to give me strength.
Sunday, December 22nd, 1872.-—Séance at Mr. \Valter Crookes’s,
24, Motcombe-street, Belgrave-square. Present : Mr. D. D. Home, Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Crookes, and myself—The only things that occurred
were owing to my mediumship and not to Mr. Home’s. He was ill,
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 295
and his mediumship is very uncertain. Raps on my chair and in the
table occurred. When Mr. Home sang and played they kept time. The
table also moved twice. This was all.
Mr. D. D. Home is a striking—looking man. His head is a good
one. He shaves his face with the exception of a moustache, and his
hair is bushy and curly. He gives me the impression of an honest,
good person, whose intellect is not of a high order. I had some talk with
him, and the impression that I have formed of his intellectual ability is.
not high. He resolutely refuses to believe in anything that he has not
seen for himself. For instance, he refuses to believe in the passage of
matter through matter, and when pressed concludes the argument by
saying,
“ I have never seen it.” He has seen the ring test, but, oddly
enough, does not see how it bears on the question. He accepts the theory
of the return in rare instances of the departed, but believes with me
that most of the manifestations proceed from alow order of spirits who
hover near the earth sphere. He does not believe in Mrs. Guppy’s
passage through matter, nor in her honesty. He thinks that regular
manifestations are not possible. Consequently he disbelieves public
mediums generally. He had read with great interest the Liver
pool Mercury letters [Autumn, 1872], and welcomed me as the
“ablest exponent of a creed which was very dear to him.” He said
he was thankful to know that his mantle had fallen on me, and urged
me to prosecute the inquiry and defend the faith. Altogether he made
quite an Elijah and Elisha business of my reception. He plays and
sings very nicely, and recites well. He wore several handsome diamonds,
gifts from royal and distinguished persons. He is a thoroughly good,
honest, weak, and very vain man, with little intellect, and no ability
to argue or defend his faith.
1873.—The new year opens with a record of a very remarkable
séance held by Dr. and Mrs. Speer and myself, in the study at Douglas
House, on New Year’s Eve. A number of strange spirits came, each
with its peculiar noise. We noticed the great number of strange
noises, and I knew by impression that strange spirits were present.
Dr. Speer was in the act of calling upon Dicky to bring him something,
when a pair of salad tongs came down from the ceiling and struck him
on the head. They did not appear to have been thrown with any force,
and seemed to come from a different direction to'that from which articles
are usually thrown. They generally come directly over my head, the
power being concentrated there. In this case the tongs seemed to come
from the ceiling nearly above Dr. Speer’s head. Amongst the strange
noises that we heard was one very peculiar wailing sound. I succeeded
in establishing communication and found that the Spirit purported to
be my old friend A. W. I begged her not to wail so. I fear she is not
happy She rapped out, “ Cross for you,” Mrs. S. calling the alphabet.
296 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Light was called for, and before Mrs. Speer was placed a cruciﬁx of
blue enamel with a handsomely chased ﬁgure of the Saviour. It was
unknown to all of us, and seemed to be of foreign manufacture.
“ \Vear it” was spelled out. The next spirit gave the initials J. N. L. ,
she said that afﬁnity had brought her ; we did not know her ; and she
had come to do us good. She managed to tilt the table, so as to rap
upon the woodwork of Dr. Speer’s armchair. The knocks were very
clear and resonant, but- gentle and ﬁrm in character.
After this I was entranced by Imperator. He said that a great
many strange spirits had been admitted that night who had been wait
ing to get into the circle. He had diﬁiculty in speaking, not being
used to it ; had left the earth for a very long time, and had come back
to control me in obedience to a direct mission entrusted to him. A
question addressed to Imperator about a very remarkable spirit-light
was replied to by him to the effect that the bright halo of light
indicated great spiritual power. -
The light referred to was a very remarkable one. I regret very
much that I cannot from personal observation describe the appearance.
I was partially entranced when it appeared, so far that my powers
of observation were worthless, and before it was fully developed I was
in a very deep trance, from which I did not recover until the appearance
had vanished. The description given by Dr. and Mrs. Speer is very
circumstantial. Dr. Speer was the ﬁrst to observe the light, which was
directly behind me on the wall. Dr. S. faced me, and his eye was
attracted by a line of light three-quarters of an inch in width, of a bright
golden hue, which for a moment developed in a cross and then took the
form of a long line of golden light more than six feet in height. Round
my head was a halo with rays of light darting upwards, exactly as de
scribed by clairvoyants on previous occasions. On this occasion Dr. S.
said he saw light : was there any objection to his putting out his
hand to feel whether it was over my head ’1 He did so, and his hand
went straight to my head at once. The nimbus of light was formed
before the concentrated pencil appeared on the wall. As I moved the
ray moved with me. Commencing near the door, between door and
ﬁreplace, on the ﬂoor there was visible a large cluster of light about the
size of a saucer, but more oblong. It was moved in conjunction with
the other, and remained for half-an-hour or more. (The cluster of light
on the ﬂoor was always in view. The long pencil of light was at times
obscured by my body in its lower extremity.) The light on the wall moved
round from my back to the looking-glass over the ﬁre. It was not
until Dr. S. rose from his chair to look over my head that he found that
the column of light rested on the ﬂoor. His view of it had been inter
cepted by my body. The light was visible for more than half-an—hour.
Imperator on being questioned said that the pencil of light was himself;
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 297
the bright cluster of light was his personal attendant ; and other
lights in the room were the band. Dr. Speer walked up to the light on
the wall, put his face within a few inches of it and passed his hand over
it. The cluster of light on the ﬂoor seemed to be on the pedals of the
harmonium. Both lights remained clearly in view until the gas was
lighted and the séance terminated.1
January 4th [1873].—In the afternoon, whilst Mrs. Speer and I
were sitting in the dining-room, the gas being fully lighted, Dicky
moved the large dining-table, rocked
it,
and told us that he had lived
when on earth in Lincolnshire. Whilst the musical clock was playing,
a heavy tramp passed round the room in time to the music.2
January 7th.—Séance at
4,
Worcester Lawn [Clifton]. Present:
Dr. Thomson and his son, Mr. Beattie, and Mr. Butland (the medium
through whom the Clifton photographs were obtained). [Mn Beattie
and Dr. Thomson are dead; and
I
have not been able to trace the
other two sitters.—F.W.H.M.] The table was very ﬁdgety, was
moved backwards and forwards, tilted, rocked, and ﬁnally ﬂoated
to a height of about two feet from the ground. The movement
was very slow and stately, except now and again, when
it
was
violently shaken. The room was shaken throughout. Imperator
entranced me and spoke to Mr. Beattie at great length about the
photographs, saying that they were not photos of spirits, but of
1
December 3lst, 1872.—A very successful séance. A blue enamel cross
was brought, no one knew whence, placed before my wife, who was told to
wear it. A pair of salad tongs of Sévres manufacture brought from drawing
room through two closed doors. A column of light about seven feet high was
seen to move round the room, and about two feet to the right of the column
was a large glowing mass of light. The column of light
I
placed my hand
upon, as seen on the wall. High barometer, 3O
;
dark. During the time
Imperator was entrancing the medium, and conversing with us through him,
we saw
a
large bright cross of light behind the medium’s head, rays
surrounding
it
;
after this
it
culminated into
a
beautiful line of light of great
brilliancy, reaching several feet high and moving from side to side. Behind
this column of light on the ﬂoor was
a
bright cluster of lights in oblong
shape. These remained for more than half-an-hour, and upon asking Im
perator the meaning of the lights, he said the pillar of light was himself
;
the
bright light behind him his attendant
;
and the numerous lights seen in the
room belonged to the band. The light around the medium’s head showed
his great spiritual power. He also said in time we might see him; might
do so now were our spiritual vision clearer. Imperator then closed the séance
and the medium awoke unconscious of all that had been done.—S.T.S.]
2
January Mia—First appearance of Rector, known by his heavy tread all
round the room, in full gas-light. Séance in light. Table danced a jig, with
our ﬁngers nearly touching it, perpendicularly—SIS. In the light we
watched the table tilt and dance up and down without contactpf hands—M. S.
298 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
pictures made by the spirits. He gave a ﬁnal inspirational address
on Progress, which is described as being extremely beautiful. Mr.
Butland in trance came round to me and went through an extremely
elaborate pounding and mesmerising of my chest and throat. It was
a long process. He then (under the control of Dr. Elliotson) took my
hand and joined it to Mr. Beattie’s. This was in the dark. A very loud,
gruff voice then said: “Let the instrument sit at the table in light,
and we will endeavour to entrance him again.” Accordingly Mr.
Butland sat down, and we lit the gas. After a time he was again
entranced. The process of passing into the trance was very painful to
witness. When entranced he rose and came round to me and stood
over me. The face was upturned and the lips moved in prayer:
“ Bless him,” “ Guide him,” “ Lead him in the right way.” The hands
were outspread as in benediction. He then knelt by my knee, burst
into tears, covering his face with his hands, and ﬁnally fell ﬂat on the
ﬂoor, and went through a semblance of dying. The hands were at
length folded on the breast, and the medium rose and impersonated
another character. This is a peculiarity of his mediumship. This time
it was Mr. Beattie’s mother. Then two friends of his who used to live
in Clifton. The face and voice changed in each new control. One of
the latter, an old Presbyterian minister, said it would be better if the
séance were opened with prayer. Mr. Beattie requested him to give a
form. He turned round very reverently and bowed to me, or rather to
Imperator standing behind me, and said: “The Great Spirit will give
it.” After a time the Control passed and I was entranced again.
During this time I spoke the following prayer :—
“ Holy Father, God Most High, be present with us and hear the
earnest prayer of Thy children, crying after light. We are weak, but Thou
art Mighty! \Ve grope in darkness after Thee, the Inﬁnite Light. 0 God,
Thou Who art the Inﬁnite Light 1 O God, Thou Who art all-pure, all-holy,
guide us, Thine erring children, into purity and holiness! Suffer us not
to be led away by that which is earthly, sensual, devilish, but in Thine
Inﬁnite Mercy lead us onward and upward to the fountain of Eternal
Light. O Thou good God, be with us ! \Ve ask no more. If we have not
Thee we are indeed bereft. Amen.”
The whole séance was a most striking one. I regret again that I
cannot record Imperator’s trance-speakings, which Mr. Beattie 'says
were most beautiful, reminding him of Home’s ﬁnest trance-speakings.
He never saw such a séance, he says.
Dr. T. and I sat alone. The manifestations commenced at once.
Dicky brought a small croquet ball from the next room and a handful
of lozenges from my bedroom. Imperator entranced me, and explained
that Miss M. had been the deterrent inﬂuence, not because of her
unbelief, but from her tone of mind. My spirits could not come into
the room or breathe the atmosphere that surrounded her. He
MR. CHARLTON T. SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 299
(Imperator) had sent-a manifesting spirit to fetch the articles in order
to show Dr. T. the power. He also gave information of peculiarities
of my mediumship, its sensitiveness and high-class nature; spoke
favourably of Mr. Butland, who was, he said, a very valuable and honest
medium. -
January 9th.—Dr. Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Mr. Butland and I
tried for spirit photographs in the dark without success.
January 10th.—Séance at Worcester Lawn, Clifton. Present : Dr.
Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Miss Jones, and a French artist, a friend of Mr.
Beattie and myself—The manifestations commenced immediately. The
table was repeatedly ﬂoated in the air, two feet or more from the
ground, the raps were very loud indeed, Dr. Thomson and Miss Jones
were touched very distinctly, my chair was ﬂoated, removed from me,
and I was placed in an armchair in a corner of the room. Articles
were brought from three different rooms in the house—viz., some
Guimauve lozenges from my bedroom, four dominoes from a box in the
dining-room, and a heavy clip with receipted bills from Dr. Thomson’s
room. I had never been in that room, and it is rare that articles are
brought from a room in which no psychic power has been left.
I was entranced by Imperator, and gave a long address on the
temper and mind requisite for receiving communications and on
inspiration. Lights were seen during the trance. All agreed that the
manifestations were the most powerful they had ever witnessed.
January 11th, 1873.-—-Séance at Worcester Lawn. Present: Dr.
Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Mr. Butland, and self—Manifestations com
menced at once. The table was ﬂoated, loud raps came, my chair
was moved. Two things were brought out of a bag in my room, a
railway key and a foot-rule. The'table was repeatedly ﬂoated, and
remained suspendediand waving backwards and forwards for a- con
siderable time. Imperator entranced me, and gave an address on
Investigation and Proselytising, concluding with a very beautiful
prayer. .
Mr. Butland was then entranced, with less difﬁculty than usual, and
rose from his chair with eyes ﬁrmly closed and with a peculiar gesture
which Mr. Beattie recognised. He took paper and signed his initials,
J. E., indicating that the spirit of Dr. Elliotson was present. He is
the controlling spirit with Mr. Butland. ,
After walking about for some time the face and mienchanged and
the medium went through a de‘ath-bed scene. The face wore an
expression of pain, and the medium gasped for breath, put his hands
over his head, writhed as though in pain, and went through a. number
of gestures indicative of dying. The face cleared, the expression
became less painful, and the hands were put out as though on the
heads of children. At last the hands were folded over the chest and
x
300 The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses.
the medium rose and came to Dr. Thomson and stood over him
with a look and attitude of great affection. He asked if it were his
wife, who died in August last, and the face brightened and smiled eager
assent. Asked if she were often with the children—four little ones-—
the face assumed an expression of great maternal love and gazed
upwards as though imploring a blessing. It was a singularly beautiful
impersonation—Dr. T. told me that the death-bed was reproduced
almost exactly, and that he had no doubt that it was the spirit of his
wife who inspired the medium.
The next control was by Dr. Elliotson, who went through a very
elaborate magnetising of my throat and chest. Before doing so, how
ever, he appealed with a deep obeisance to Imperator, who was standing
behind me, and asked permission. Having received
it,
he explained
that
I
was under the control of a very high spirit without whose per
mission he dared not touch me. Having completed the operation he
turned again, bowed low, and Imperator seemed to come forward.
I
felt the presence of Imperator’s touch. The spirit controlling Mr.
Butland was appealed to by Mr. Beattie as to a remedy which he had
advised for me, and again some three or four spirits were “called in
consultation.” Dr. E. said there were very many spirits who wished to
manifest, but he could not allow them, as
it
would hurt the instrument.
Mr. Beattie’s father next manifested. He had been present before and
had communicated through the table, and had touched Mr. Beattie in
a way peculiar to himself. Amongst other things, he had given a
peculiar Masonic knock, which Dicky caught up and was highly
delighted with
!
|
]
I
I
|
|
may represent it. After this
control ceased the medium’s face changed to an expression of great
sweetness. He came over and stood before me, and looked down on
me with a smile of great affection. He then sat down on my lap, took
my hand and clasped it in both of his, straining
it
to him. Finally he
put his arm round my neck and laid his head sobbing on my shoulder.
The sobs were so violent as to shake us both, and indicated delight
rather than pain. The medium then rose and gazed with a. rapt ex
pression upwards. The face was extremely beautiful. The arms were
extended to heaven, and the lips moved in prayer. The arms were now
and again drawn down on my head as though calling down angel minis
ters, and
I
was conscious of a very pure and soothing presence and in—
ﬂuence.
I
have no doubt A. W. was the controlling spirit.
I
asked
her
if
she were weeping for sorrow. She signed very earnestly
“ No.”
I
asked
if
I
caused her pain, and she eagerly embraced me afresh.
Was she near me often? “
Always
”
was faintly whispered. Could
I
do anything for her"! Apparently, no. Was she happy? Yes. She
turned and gazed again at me with a face of rapt,'alm0st agonised aﬂ'ec—
tion, and left the medium, who was again controlled by Dr. Elliotson.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 301
I inquired about the spirit who had just been present, but could get no
answer except that she would communicate with me herself hereafter.
She expressed great delight at my having recognised her. Soon after
this the control ceased, and we closed a very remarkable séance.
Mr. Butland’s mediumship is of a very remarkable type. The face
is a good one, with pleasant features, and a full black beard and mous
tache. When controlled the face is very expressive, and admits of
great change of expression. The gestures are ﬁne and the attitudes
would be a ﬁne study for a sculptor in some cases. Both expression
and gesture change very rapidly, and a stranger has no diﬂiculty in
recognising the emotions intended to be conveyed. At times the
pathos is very great and most strikingly depicted. Tears ﬂow from
the eyes, and the whole man is thrown into the character he is depict
ing, for each representation has its strongly-marked individuality, which
is maintained throughout.
Few of the spirits speak, except Dr. Elliotson, Mr. Dickie, and Mr.
Charleton.
Wednesday, January 15th, l873.—Séance at Douglas House—The
room was lighted with a red light suﬂiciently strong to enable us to see
perfectly what was going on. We could observe the lifting and
ﬂoating of the table to the height of two feet or more.1
Tuesday, January Zlst.-—Séance at Douglas House—The usual
phenomena occurred. The table was ﬂoated repeatedly, and raised
from the ground two feet without contact. . . . Dicky stated that
he was the spirit who trod so heavily in time to music, and shook the
room. He illustrated his remark by shaking the ﬂoor, and saying that
that was his peculiar sound. [It appears that this séance was held in
half-light, though Mr. Moses does not mention the fact]
2
January 25th.—-Séance at Douglas House—The physical phenomena
commenced at once, and on one occasion the table was ﬂoated to the
level of our heads ; this in clear light. Dicky was requested to bring
something, and accordingly he fetched part of an ivory puzzle out of the
drawing-room, and a heavy bronze candlestick out of the dining
room. The latter struck me heavily on the head, and hurt me con
siderably.3
1 January 15th-.—Séance in red light. Great movements of the table. It
was repeatedly lifted up to the level of our faces, even without touching
it. Subdued light, quite sufﬁcient to see the table and our hands. The
table was moved and ﬂoated several times ; we could watch in light its every
movement.——S.T.S.
2
January 21st.—Séance. Half light, enough to see our hands. The table
was lifted to a considerable height twelve times.—-S.T.S. \Ve again sat in
light—M. S.
3January 25th.—Séance.' A candlestick brought from next room through
it 2
302 The Experiences of W. Stainto'n Moses.
January 29th.—Table tilted, moved, and ﬂoated as usual. Dicky
came and tilted the table near Dr. Speer. I lectured and forgave him,
and he danced about in great glee. [This sitting is plainly the one
referred to below by Dr. Speer, who mentions that there was some light
in the room, a fact which seems to have been only occasionally notecL]1
Sunday, February 23rd.—-Séance at Douglas House. Present, the
usual circle, with Mr. Harrison, Editor of the Spiritualist—In order
to avoid the usual séance-room [which Imperator desired to be kept
exclusively for the intimate group] we sat in the breakfast-room, the
ﬁrelight being excluded as well as possible. The usual raps and creaks,
which had been plainly audible at dinner, commenced at once, and
Dicky was particularly lively. We were then requested to darken the;
room, and the light which had been round us vanished, and the
sounds ceased. Presently my chair began to move, and I saw light
coming as it were through the door. At once my chair was withdrawn
from me, and placed on the table 3 from which position it toppled
over to the ﬂoor again, whilst I was shot to the end of the room under
a side table, and three articles were put upon the table, viz., a carved
ivory napkin-ring from under a glass shade in the drawing room, a
carte de visite from the same room, and a chamois horn from the
entrance hall. We all felt cold, and the influence was very strong.
We made a break now for tea, and when we returned Dicky again
fetched a compass from the drawing-room.2
Tuesday, ZlIarch 4th.-Séance at Douglas House—A very loud
knock on the table came as I was describing Mrs. Jencken’s knocks.
It was a distinct imitation of hers, but not quite so loud. Dr. Speer
had got a magnet, which he put on the table, as an experiment. I do
not know how far that inﬂuenced the noise, which was very loud.
We had joined hands, contrary to our usual habit, and when a
light was struck (on the heavy blow coming) we found on the table a
little silver tray with an orange and rose upon it—the orange for me,
I was coughing, and the rose for Mrs. Speer. Knocks sounded all
over the room. [Note that Dr. Speer makes the orange a biscuit] 3
closed doors, and was thrown at Mr. M., hurting him much. The table was
repeatedly lifted, higher than ever.—S.T.S. We saw a form surrounded
with light standing between myself and the medium.-M.S.
1 January 28th [29th].-—Séance. Still greater levitation of the table. We
had almost to stand to keep our hands on it ; one leg was placed on the arm
of my chair ﬁve times. A chalnois horn was quietly brought through the
locked doors, and thrown on ﬂoor ; light partial.—S.T.S.
‘
2 February 23rd.—Séance below with Mr. Harrison, Editor of
'
the
Spiritualist. Several objects brought into the room from the ﬂoor above ; a
heavy chair placed on the table.-—-S.T.S.
‘5 March 4th.—Séance. Two violent blows of metallic sound struck on the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 303
Monday, ﬁlm-ch 10th.—Séance at Douglas House—Curious spirit
knock came like a sharp tap with a pebble. I had heard the same
sound before in my bedroom. It was very metallic and clear. Im
perator spoke in answer to questions at some length. [Here the
bringing in of two objects is noted by Dr. Speer only.]1
Sunday, March 15th.—We sat (Dr. S. and I) below stairs, and had
many knocks. The room shook, and the knocks occurred just the
same when our hands were removed and our feet placed on the table.
We had several messages, one purporting to come from Dr. Speer’s
little sister, C.P.S.S. Imperator came. He spoke with diﬂiculty, and
said that many spirits were round us. The noise on the table, chair,
bookcase, and harmonium stool was very remarkable, continuing all
the time that I was entranced. Before the trance passed, a very hard
knock was given on the table.2
March 19th, 1873.—Douglas House—Dr. Speer and I sat alone in
the room below. The spirit above described [as making loud metallic
raps] came and knocked very violently. Dr. S. had in his hand a
small steel hammer, used in sounding the chest, and with it he struck
violent blows on the: table, which were responded to by still louder
knocks from the spirit. The knocks were of the same intense and
metallic character as before. The force exercised must have been very
great.
We were ﬁnally told to go upstairs and sit in the séance-room.
Mrs. Speer joined the circle, and little Pauline came and rapped in the
cupboard of the bookcase. The raps were clear and the same as we
have heard from her before. She gave her name. Dr. S. asked for a
message. She said, “I wrote,” alluding to a previous evening when
there had been a great noise in the cupboard. Dr. S. looked in the
cupboard, and found his marked piece of paper covered on one side
with “ Dieu vous garde.—C. P. S. Sperr
”
(sic).
[This mis-spelling is noticeable in connection with the question how
far the misspelling of names, when given by raps or direct writing,
affects the question of identity. Here we have a. control which returns
frequently, and shows knowledge of the brief earth-life, and the full
name of the little sister of Dr. Speer’s, whom it claims to be. Yet the
table; a silver salver with a ﬂower and biscuit brought in from adjoining
, room, doors being locked.
1March 10th.—Séance on ground ﬂoor. Extraordinary metallic blows
again dealt on table, and some on the ﬂoor. Two objects brought in from
above and dropped on the ﬂoor.—-S.T.S.
2March 16th [l5th].-—C. P. S. S. came, also Prudens Scientiae. Extra
ordinary and unaccountable sounds heard in a closed cupboard to my
right hand.—-S.T.S.
304: The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
familiar name is thus mis-spelt. On the other hand, certain names of
infant children (as will be seen later, Feb. 10th, 1874) were spelt with
great exactness. So again, of two Greek names mis-spelt in direct
writing, one was thoroughly familiar to Mr. Moses, who was much
disgusted at the blunder. The inference, as stated by the controlling
intelligences themselves, seems to be that when a name is rapped out
or given in direct writing its production is of the nature of a physical
phenomenon, which may be more or less successfully performed, and is
not necessarily performed by the spirit itself whose name is given. The
mere fact that a name is given by direct writing is thus no proof of
identity ; and neither is a blunder in spelling it any disproof.—
1
Sunday, March 23rd, 187 3.—Dr. S. and I sat in the lower room. We
had the usual sounds, especially the metallic knock very loud. A new
spirit manifested, who gave the name of the Spirit of Art. There was
also a noise in mid-air, apparently between Dr. S. and myself, as of the
twanging of a stringed instrument. There was no such instrument in
the room, and I am at a loss how to account for it. A spirit also
imitated the drumming of a tune. The knocks were at times exceed~
ingly loud.2
Monday, March 24th, 1870.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and I sat in the
study. We had the usual knocks, and Imperator answered questions.
I had magnetised a sheet of paper, and put it under the table.
Imperator, speaking through me, told Dr. and Mrs. Speer to hold
my hands and he would give me a “pleasing test.” Accordingly,
when I came out of trance I found my hands grasped. This con
tinued until a light was called for by four raps, when we found
the paper covered by minute writing. The annexed is as near a
facsimile as I can make. [A message of about ten lines of general
advice is here copied. This sitting is noticeable from an evidential
point of view, from the mutually supplementary accounts of Mr. Moses
and Dr. Speer. Dr. Speer’s statement : “I myself kicked the pencil away
from the paper,” apparently means “in order to make sure that, hands
being held, no writing should be done with the feet.”—F.W.H.M.]
3
'1
March 19th.—,Séance. Tremendous raps, imitating and exceeding those
made by myself with a percussion hammer. These sounds occurred both in
my study and breakfast-room. C.P.S.S. [the infant sister of Dr. Speer, from
whom frequent messages were alleged to come] gave a message from the
cupboard. —S. T. S.
2
March 23rd. —Séance on ground ﬂoor. Great blows struck on table;
knocks and sounds of every kind. Gravel thrown through closed window;
some stringed instrument was heard playing in mid-air. There was none in
the room.—S.T.S.
a
March 25th [24th].—Séance in study. One metallic blow struck on table,
The Experiences of W. Staimon Moses. 305
Wednesday, April 2nd, l873.——The anniversary of my ﬁrst séance.
I have now kept an accurate record of events for a year. . . . A
short time after sitting, Dicky and Rector manifested loudly, and
J. N. L. came. She said [by raps] she wished to introduce her brother,
who gave the name of John Lydgate 3 said he was a monk who lived
about 1420, at Bury St. Edmunds, at a Benedictine monastery j, that
he got his education at Oxford and travelled abroad ,' that he kept a
school of poetry, and published the History of Thebes and the Siege of
Troy. Afﬁnity had brought him to me.
This information has since been veriﬁed in the most remarkable
manner by Mr. Noyes, who writes me that John Lydgate was exactly
what he professes to be, and that he studied at Oxford, Paris, and
Padua. The Siege of Troy was a poetical romance of 28,000 lines.
We have not before had so circumstantial a description.1
April 19th, 1873.—~Mr. Deane, organist of Trinity Church, East
bourne, joined our circle. We had several loud knocks on the table,
and creaks and taps, but no communication. At one particularly
loud crack from the metallic spirit who has given the name of John
Dee, Dr. Speer saw in the half-light a shadowy arm making impact on
the table. It appeared to come from my elbow. My arms at the
time were folded on the table. Mr. Deane conﬁrmed by reference all
and one on the harmonium. The best and minutest spirit-writing (direct)
yet obtained, and signed by four spirits, viz., Imperator, Rector, Doctor, and
Prudens. N.B.—The paper was carefully examined by us all immediately
before extinguishing the light, and I myself kicked the pencil away from the
paper. The writing was undermost.—S.T.S.
1
April 2nd.-Séance. Mrs. De M. , Messrs. N. and Percival joined the
circle. Janet Nares Lydgate gave her name for the ﬁrst time, and brought
her brother, who died in 1490. He gave minute details of his earth-life, all
of which were found to be absolutely correct by three of the sitters during
the following days and after examination of records. Raps were heard all
over the large dining-table. A large stone was brought in (through locked
doors) from my study. Hands held the whole time.—S.T.S.
April 2nd.—This evening Mrs. De Morgan, Mr. Percival, and Mr. N.
joined our outer circle. Manifestations soon commenced. Rector shook
the room, and walked round the circle with a heavy step. Very many sounds
and raps were heard, all different. We remarked the spirits had promised
to come, and seemed very numerous. They rapped out, “We are.” J.N.L.
introduced her brother to the circle ; he told us he had lived in the reign of
Henry V., had passed into spirit life in 1420, was a monk at Bury St.
Edmunds, was of the Order of the Benedictines, kept a school, and had been
attracted to the medium by aﬂinity and love of education. He had studied
at Oxford and abroad, and had translated The Siege of Troy. J.N.L.
then informed us she was in the second sphere, had passed away young.
Imperator came with his soft thud on the table, telling us by raps to join
hands. In a few minutes, through the table, message was given,
“ We have
306 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
the particulars given to us by Dr. John Dee and Dr. James Nares,
who is Charley’s guardian. The particulars were principally written
through my hand by Doctor. 2
April 30th, 1873.—Séance at Miss Douglas’, 81, South Audley
street. Present: Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Crookes, Serjeant Cox, Miss
Douglas, W.S.M. Mr. D. D. Home, medium. .
Mr. Home.
Miss Douglas. Mrs. W. Crookes.
o O
Vase of Terra cotta
ﬂowers. statuette.
W. S. M. Serjt. Cox.
Mr. W. Crookes.
We sat in a well-lighted room—a bright ﬁre, a shaded reading-lamp,
and two candles, which latter were ﬁnally extinguished, the light from
other sources being ample. The table was covered with a cloth, and
the ﬁreplace was at Mr. Crookes’ back. The room was crowded
with furniture. We had not sat very long before the table became
uneasy. Small raps were heard, which gradually increased in power,
though they never reached anything like the intensity of those to
which I am accustomed. By the time that the raps had become con
brought stone. Wait.” Presently the medium was greatly convulsed, and
suddenly a large stone was rolled violently across the table and fell on
Mr. Percival’s knee. The stone had been brought from the hall through a
locked door, every hand at the table being held during the process. Mr.
Percival had been anxious to have a proof of “matter passing through
matter,” and this indeed was a solid one, as the stone was very large and
heavy. -—M. S.
2April 19th.—Séance at Eastbourne, with Mr. Deane. Constant raps.
One great metallic blow. I saw the hand and arm.
April 26th.—Séance. Return of band. Great power exhibited. The
table thrown down, and replaced three times of its own accord. Great raps
and metallic blows. Sounds as of a heavy tread constantly walking about the
room. Objects shaken by it. Lyre sound again heard.
April 28th.—Séance extraordinary. I. did not come; P. did. Great
and uncontrolled power exhibited. Table moved in all directions—raised
high up in mid-air several times. Great diﬂiculty in controlling it. John Dee
came with immense force—cause as yet unknown.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 307
ﬁrmed Mr. Home judged that he might experiment with the accordion.
He took it up in his right hand and held it under the table. Soon it
was played, and questions answered by notes struck upon it. Finally
it played “ Home, sweet Home ”
very sweetly. At one time Mr.
Home’s hand was withdrawn from under the table, and he allowed it
to go where it was impelled, still holding the accordion. It drew
steadily towards the reading-lamp, and in full light we saw it playing,
expanding and contracting steadily. Mr. Home held it by the
bottom, the keys being downwards. After this it was replaced under
the table, still in Mr. Home’s hand, and Serjeant Cox was told to look
under the table. There he saw the hand—a full-sized man’s apparently—
playing the accordion. About that he is absolutely certain. It was
light enough to be quite visible. “Ye banks and braes of Bonny
Doon” was partly played, and we were all touched by hands. One
was a little baby hand—small, delicate, and very soft. It patted my
knee very freely, and anticipated my mental questions. Miss Douglas’
bracelet was moved on her arm close to my eyes. Questions were
answered upon
it,
and at one time the raps upon
it
were loud enough
to be heard all over the room. Hands came up under the cloth and
touched us, and questions were answered on the accordion both by
raps and by the notes.
The lyre sound, which
is
familiar to us, was heard very distinctly,
even when the accordion was away from the table.
By degrees Mr. Home’s hands and arms began to twitch and move
involuntarily.
I
should say that he has been partly paralysed, drags
one of his legs, moves with diﬁiculty, stoops, and can endure very little
physical exertion. As he passed into the trance state he drew power
from the circle by extending his arms to them and mesmerising himself.
All these acts were involuntary. He gradually passed into the trance
state, and rose from the table, erect, and a different man from what he
was. He walked ﬁrmly, dashed out his arms and legs with great
power, and passed round to Mr. Crookes. He mesmerised him, and
appeared to draw power from him. He then went to the ﬁreplace,
removed the guard, and sat down on the hearthrug. There he seemed
to hold a conversation by signs with a spirit. He repeatedly bowed,
and ﬁnally set to work to mesmerise his head again. He ruﬂled his
bushy hair until
it
stood out like a mop, and then deliberately lay down
and put his head in the bright wood ﬁre. The hair was in the blaze,
and must, under ordinary circumstances, have been singed 011'. His
head was in the grate, and his neck on a level with the top bar. This
was repeated several times. He also put his hand into the ﬁre,
smoothed away the wood and coal, and picked out a live coal, which he
held in his hand for a few seconds, but replaced soon, saying the power
was not sufﬁcient. He tried to give a hot coal to Mr. Crookes, but
308 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
was unable to do it. He then came to all of us to satisfy us that there
was no smell of ﬁre on his hair. There was absolutely none. “The
smell of ﬁre had not passed on him.” In the trance state he passed
about the room amongst the furniture without touching any. He
moved the lamp to the mantelpiece. He spoke in a soft, subdued voice,
called himself “ Dan,” and said he had a work to do in London.
During the evening we never heard who the spirits were, but I was told
that friends of mine were present.
[Mr. Crookes, to whom I have shown this account,
comments as follows :—
March 9th, 1893.
I have a distinct recollection of the séance here described, and can corro
borate Mr. Stainton Moses’ account. I was not well placed for seeing the
ﬁrst part of the “ﬁre test
”
here recorded. I knew, from experience, that
when Home was in a trance much movement or conversation on the part of
the others present was likely to interfere with the progress of phenomena.
My back was to the ﬁre, and I did not at ﬁrst turn round to see what he
was doing. Being told what was taking place, Ilooked and saw Home in
the act of raising his head from the ﬁre. Probably this was the last occasion
of the “ several times
”
it was repeated, as I have no recollection of seeing
it more than once. On my expressing great disappointment at having missed
this test, Mr. Home told me to leave my seat and come with him to the ﬁre.
He asked me if I should be afraid to take alive coal [ember] from his hand.
I said, No, I would take it if he would give it to me. He then put his hand
among the hot coals [embers], and deliberately picked out the brightest bit
and held it in his hand for a few seconds. He appeared to deliberate for
a time, and then returned it to the grate, saying the power was too weak,
and he was afraid I might be hurt. During this time I was kneeling on the
hearthrug, and am unable to explain how it was he was not severely burnt.
The ﬁre was of wood, Miss Douglas never burning coal in her reception
rooms. At the commencement of the evening a log of wood had been put
on, and this had been smouldering throughout the evening. My recollection
of the ﬁre is that it was not a particularly bright one.
I do not believe in the possibility of the ordinary skin of the hand being
so prepared as to enable hot coals to be handled with impunity. Schoolboys'
books and mediaeval tales describe how this can be done with alum or certain
other ingredients. It is possible that the skin may be so hardened and
thickened by such preparations that superﬁcial charring might take place
without the pain becoming great, but the surface of the skin would certainly
suffer severely. After Home had recovered from the trance I examined his
hand with care to see if there were any signs of burning or of previous pre
paration. I could detect no trace of injury to the skin, which was soft and
delicate like a woman’s. Neither were there signs of any preparation having
been previously applied.
I have often seen conjurers and others handle red-hot coals ‘and iron, but
there were always palpable signs of burning. A negro was once brought to
my laboratory, who professed to be able to handle red-hot iron with impunity.
I was asked to test his pretensions, and I did so carefully. There was no
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 309
doubt he could touch and hold for a brief time red-hot iron without feeling
much pain, and supposing his feet were as resisting as his hands, he could
have triumphantly passed the “ red-hot ploughshare
”
ordeal. But the
house was pervaded for hours after with the odour of roast negro.
WILLIAM OROOKEsJ
Wednesday, May 7th, 1873.—Séance with Mr. D. D. Home, at
Miss Douglas’, 81, South Audley-street. Present: Mrs. Home, Ser
jeant Cox, Mr. and Mrs. W. Crookes, Miss Douglas, and myself.—_
We had been told at the last séance to sit in the dining~room. Miss
Douglas had forgotten, and the ﬁre was newly lit and the room
unprepared. We sat round the table for ﬁfty minutes with no result.
During all that time I felt power drawn from me, and was partially
entranced. The phenomena commenced with faint raps 0n the table.
Window with light behind it.
Mrs. G. x l—J
X Dinner-waggon.
Chair on which 0
Dire. C. sat.
Fireplace,
without ﬁre.
D. H.
Figure X X
Mr. C
Mrs. C. Serjt. Cox.
Mr. H. Mrs. H.
Miss D. w. s. M.
'
| 1
Window.
Mr. Home took the accordion in his hand, and held it under the table.
During this time’raps occurred near me and on my chair. The
accordion played a strange, weird melody, unlike anything earthly I
ever heard. The table rocked about like a ship at sea—docked,
groaned, and ﬁnally Separated at the joint.
I
Nothing, however, was
310 The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses.
made of this, and the table was joined again. A chair just behind Mr.
Home began to move, and was considerably moved round. We could
all see it move, but stealthily, and when the intent gaze was not ﬁxed
on it. We found invariably that direct gaze would paralyse the move
ment at once. . . . Suddenly Mr. Home passed into trance, and
spoke in his natural voice, but of himself in the third person. He
spoke of a spirit near (Hamilton Dundas), who had been lost in the
President. Miss Douglas knew him. -
Mr. Home now rose from his chair, and . . . went into the
inner dining-room, taking the accordion with him, and placing it on
the dinner-waggon. [Carving-table—E. Crookes] The ﬁrelight was
lowered; the reading-lamp was put out of the room; the gas behind
the window at the end of the room was lowered, and we sat in gloom ;
the window at the end showing out in bold relief. During the evening
Mr. Home stood near the ﬁreplace, and kept us informed of his
position. “ Now Dan is here ; now Dan is touching the, &c., &c.” We
all saw a hand descend from the top of the curtain and play the
accordion. It was a large hand, and its reﬂection on the window
blind was strong. After this a head showed in similar way. When
Mrs. Crookes was told to go into the room and occupy the chair
marked in the plan, a form was materialised as far as the middle. It
ﬂoated near the folding doors, and advanced towards Mrs. Crookes, who
screamed, and it vanished.
[Mrs Crookes, to whom I have shown this account,
makes the following comments :—
March 9th, 1893.
This is an accurate account as far as it goes of one of the most interest
ing séances I ever had with Mr. Home, and I have on several occasions
recounted the incidents to my friends. When Mr. Home took me by the
hand and led me into the back dining-room he placed me in a chair at the side
of the window and carving-table (not dinner-waggon), and facing the party
in the other room. The window had ground glass in
it,
no blind, and the
gas behind was bright enough to show everything in the room distinctly.
Mr. Home then left me and stood between the two rooms. The accordion
was immediately taken from his hand by a cloudy appearance, which soon
seemed to condense into a distinct human form, clothed in a ﬁlmy drapery,
standing near Mr. Home between the two rooms. The accordion began to
play
(I
do not remember whether on this occasion there was any recognised
melody), and the ﬁgure gradually advanced towards me till
it
almost touched
me, playing continuously. It was semi-transparent, and
I
could see the
sitters through
it
all the time. Mr. Home remained near the sliding doors.
As the ﬁgure approached
I
felt an intense cold, getting stronger as
it
got
nearer, and as
it
was giving me the accordion
I
could not help screaming.
The ﬁgure immediately seemed to sink into the ﬂoor to the waist, leaving
only the head and shoulders visible, still playing the accordion, which
was then about
a
foot oﬂ' the ﬂoor. Mr. Home and my husband came to me
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 311
at once, and I have no clear recollection of what then occurred, except that
the accordion did not cease playing immediately.
Mr. Serjeant Cox was rather angry at my want of nerve, and exclaimed :
“Mrs. Crookes, you have spoilt the ﬁnest manifestation we have ever had.”
I have always regretted that my want of presence of mind brought the
phenomena to so abrupt a termination. ELLEN 0300mm]
May 9th.—-Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. in study—A very
interesting séance. We joined hands, and in that position had loud
knocks from Philosophus, but no movement of table. Dicky came and
brought very gently an ivory piece of puzzle from the drawing-room.
At my request he fetched another. After this I felt something
crawling over my right hand (which Mrs. S. held) and could not make
out what it was. When a light was struck we found it to be a marker
from hirs. Speer’s bedroom. It had crawled 0Ver my hand, and was
placed directly in front of her, with the legend, “God isour refuge and
strength,” right before her eyes. It was folded and arranged very
neatly. During the whole time we grasped hands. A piece of
mignonette in my button-hole was taken out and passed over my face
and hair, and over Mrs. Speer’s face. As we concluded the séance a
pillar of light, very bright and diffused, descended on the centre of the
table and passed round the circle, vanishing near the ceiling. It was
like a ﬂash of light at ﬁrst.1
Wednesday, May l4th.—-Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—
The usual manifestations, rapping, tipping, and ﬂoating of table. No
spirit lights, but the lyre sound, as we have named it. The sound had
never occurred except in the lower room and in the dining-room, where
there were musical instruments—a piano and a musical clock—on
which it could be imitated, and I had formed the idea that it was
necessary to have such means of forming the sound. Here, however,
it came very much more distinctly than I had ever heard it before,
close to our ears, and moving about apparently in mid-air. It seemed
like the plucking of a string or strings. There was no attempt at a
tune, but the sound was clear, and varied in tone and pitch. It was
repeated several times Over, and continued more or less for 20 minutes
or more. Two articles were brought from Mrs. Speer’s bedroom. The
séance did not last more than three-quarters of an hour.2
Sunday Evening, May l8th, lS73.—D0uglas House. Our circle and
Mr. Harrison. . . .-Scent was brought, not as before, but by a
1May 9th.—Séance. Hands all held. Two ivory puzzle pieces brought from
drawing-room, and a. bookmarker from our bedroom. Flowers taken out of
Mr. M.’s coat and brushed over my wife’s face. Philosophus came.—S.T.S.
2.Mcty 14th.-—Séance. Lyre spirit (Grocyn) manifested well, and close to
us. Two objects were brought downstairs from a box in our bedroom ; doors.
as usual locked.
312 The Experiences of W. Stainton 'Moses.
cool wind laden with the odour. It was like otto of roses, very
powerful. As it passed round the circle Dr. and Mrs. Speer #and I
saw a ﬁgure carrying it apparently. I also saw a ﬁgure in the middle
of the table when the lyre sound was heard there. Rector manifested
very forcibly.I
1 May 18th.—Séance with Mr. \V. Harrison in our dining-room. Rector
with us the whole evening, displaying great power and shaking the
whole room. Grocyn came again. Cards were brought into the room from
the drawing-room. Cold columns of air laden with rose scent circulated
around us. At 3.30 in the morning the handles of our bedroom were
violently shaken.-—~S.T.S.
[Mrs Speer has incidentally given me a curious description of this
nocturnal sound. I had asked her whether the servants at Douglas House or
elsewhere had ever commented on the musical and other noises. Mrs; Speer
replies (October 26th, 1893) :~——“In the Isle of Man we had a furnished
house, and took our own servants. At Ventnor we had a ﬂat to ourselves
and sat very little there. At Shanklin we had, for three years, a house of
our own, where the most remarkable séances occurred. It was here
that Mentor used to make such beautiful scent from the ﬂowers, scenting the
house and perfuming ﬂowers that we were wearing. While speaking of
scent, I may tell you that one summer we shut up our London house and took
all the servants to Shanklin. We had occasion to ask someone to enter the
house. The lady wrote saying the spirits were evidently taking care of
it,
as
it
was ﬁlled with beautiful scent—no one in it. As
a
rule our servants
slept at the top of our house, and they made no remarks concerning noises,
except on one occasion, when Dr. S. and Mr. S. M. had been sitting in
a
lower room, opening into the garden, and near the servants’ apartments.
The manifestations had been very strong, and after the gentlemen left the
room the servants said they heard so much pounding in the room that
they felt frightened and went to bed as quickly as possible. We were told
afterwards that so much power had been generated that the spirits had to
make the noise to get rid of it. A similar circumstance occurred to me
and Dr. S. one night. S00n after we had retired to bed the handle of
our door was violently shaken.
I
thought
a
burglar had arrived
;
he, who
did not hear well, said,
‘
Perhaps
it
was nothing.’ A moment afterwards
the door leading into the dressing-room was also shaken loudly. On looking
outside there was no one to be seen. We were afterwards told that a spirit
had been attracted by the spiritual light over the house, and had used up
power that had been left by shaking the doors. The spirits did once give
three loud raps at my bedroom door to call me down to a séance, Mr. S. M.
being downstairs. And mental questions have been answered by raps on the
wall, while
I
was in one room and Mr. Moses in another.” This last remark
relates to another question
;
as to phenomena occurring to Mrs. Speer in
a
room apart from Mr. Moses.-—F.W.H.M.]
May 27th.—Séance at Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and I.—
Lyre sound, scent while hands were held. A large materialised hand
was passed over Mrs. Speer’s up-turned face, as she was waiting for the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 313
sprinkling of the scent, which seemed to come down from the ceiling.
It was a large hand, and startled her so much that we closed the séance.
I afterwards ascertained that the hand was Mr. C—r’s. He had come
to say farewell, being called to other work, and had touched Mrs. S. in
mistake.
1
May 26th [27th].—Séance very good. Grocyn still developing ; scent
(liquid) thrown over us all from above ; a hand touched Maria. The table
lifted its leg.
June 7th. —Séance. Grocyn again constantly with us, playing in all
directions, sometimes close to us, at other times distant. A brass butterﬂy
was brought in from drawing-room, all hands being held. Frequent
appearance of spirit lights. Rector came.
June 9th.—Séance. Grocyn came again as usual. Verbena scent appeared,
ﬁrst in aerial form, and then in repeated showers.
June 16th.-——Séance. Miss Burkett, Miss and Mr. Percival.-—Grocyn, as
usual. Two scents. Long address from Imperator ; during which table lifted.
June ZOth.—Séance very good. Grocyn’s manifestations were most
extraordinary. A candlestick was brought from the dining-room, and shell
fell straight down from the ceiling behind me on the back of my arm
chair. The table rolled about in every direction. Showers of liquid
verbena scent, and another nameless scent, fell down upon us. Sometimes
it was poured on one of my hands alone. Columns of very cold scented air
passed round the room. A cross was brought to me of silver enamel.
Direct writing under table. At the close of séance John Dee gave two
tremendous blows on the table.
June 21st.—Séance very satisfactory. Grocyn and his friend the W'elsh
Harper again manifested in a most extraordinary manner, taking in the whole
range of the gamut upon their invisible instruments. Three crosses were
brought with the message (by raps): “One for each.” Scent was again
repeatedly showered down. Between thirty and forty spirit lights appeared,
many of them as large as large oranges. They began near the ﬂoor, then
ascended, and at last by request came within our circle, so that we might have
touched them. One came down (by request) on the table, and gave
three loud raps, as though it had been done with the bottom
of a lamp. The appearance of several of them may be thus
represented. The band which I saw is stated by the others to have
been in reality the ﬁnger of a hand crossing the lamp, which was like
bright moonlight. Many of the lights were amorphous, or rather
formless; ‘
They succeeded each other with great rapidity.
June 23rd.—Séance.
'
We had this day ﬁtted up a cabinet by opening the
door of the bath-room, and hanging in front of it a heavy curtain with
a square aperture. Mr. M. sat inthis cabinet upon a reclining chair. Large
lights soon appeared, and did so about ﬁfty times. They emerged from the
aperture, and came into the room, casting reﬂections upon objects. Some
were so large and bright as to show the whole of the lintels and doorposts.
They came very close to the table upon which our hands were placed, and
on which table there came most unexpectedly the little raps of C.P.S.S.,
with her French message : “Dieu vous garde.”——S.T.S.
3M The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Friday, June 27th.~»Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. H., and self. -—We
sat ﬁrst in the dining-room. The knocks began almost directly.
The musical sound of Grocyn and the scent came, and a stone
was brought from my house in Clifton-road, a distance of half-a
mile. Imperator spoke very brieﬂy, and told us to go upstairs. I had
a very distressing headache, and the atmospheric conditions were not
good. I sat in the cabinet, and the other three on the sofa outside.
Lights soon came, whilst I was in deep trance. They are described
to me as of pale, soft light, which was surrounded apparently with
drapery. Mr. H. described it to me as a luminous crystal with
a hand holding it. Mentor, on being asked whether it were
his hand, assented, and showed a gigantic ﬁnger before the light.
There were about thirty lights, and some of them were very large
They ﬂashed by with a comet-like motion at times, and then again
stood at the opening, gradually fading away.
They generally seemed to radiate from a solid centre of luminosity
and to be shrouded in some soft drapery. Others were apparently
solid, like luminous ice. After the lights had been shown Mentor con
trolled me (ﬁrst time), and I walked out through the opening and sat
down at the table, talking in a brisk, cheery voice, quite unlike
Imperator’s. The control did not last long, and I woke refreshed and
with my headache gone.1
Saturday, June 28th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self—Musical sounds,
scent, knocks and tilts. Mentor controlled, and showed his light, ﬂashing
1June 27 th.—-Séance. Mr. W. Harrison, Editor of the Spiritualist, joined
our circle in the dining-room. Grocyn again manifested well. Scent thrown
over everyone, loud knocks, stone brought into the room. I happened to
put my hand out into the middle of the table, and felt another hand.
N.B.—The medium and his chair had been removed from the table.
Imperator came and requested us to go upstairs and try for lights as before,
Mr. M. sitting in the cabinet. They came almost immediately, of various
shapes and sizes, some very large. They came into the room and illumined
the doorposts distinctly ; on one something like a large ﬁnger seemed to rest.
O 0
The above represent the outlines of these lights.‘ They were all of a pale
bluish-green, or rather greenish-blue, tint. Many of them had a perfectly
distinct hard outline and a bright nucleus. Mr. Harrison says that such
lights could by no possibility be imitated [Mr. Harrison was an electrician],
and imagines that they were produced by hands holding crystals with
drapery falling on them. At the close Mentor brought the medium out of
the cabinet and gave us a short address.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. _ 315
it close to Dr. and Mrs. Speer as they sat at the table. It was bright
and of large size. Rector also manifested.1
Sunday, June 29th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self—The lyre-sound of
Grocyn was the most pronounced I have yet heard. He answered
questions freely with it and played a duet, varying it to represent
the sound made by bells. He told me that there were seven
musical spirits concerned in manifesting, but we could only dis
tinguish three distinct sounds. One was like the very small string
of the harp, the other was like the very deepest bass of the
Violoncello, rich, full, and very powerful. It sounded freely in
our midst. Scent was showered on us, and three books were brought
from one of the cupboards of the book-case and laid on the table, my
chair having been previously withdrawn to the end of the room. They
were all books belonging to Dr. Speer which had been lately in use.
The table was a good deal tilted. Many raps and sounds were made,
and especially Mentor knocked, ﬁrst on the table, which was quite out
of my reach; and then immediately on the harmonium. I could see
him passing backwards and forwards. Indeed, the room was full of
diﬁ'used light—I never saw more—in the form of foggy luminous mist.
Little points of light ﬂashed out now and again, but no distinct spirit
lights were made. 2
illonday, July lst, l873.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self—The day was so
oppressive and hot that we had not thought of sitting, but I suggested
trying what could be done under very unfavourable circumstances.
Grocyn soon manifested, with very loud thrumming, of deeper tone
than we ever had before. It was as if some power were thrumming
the deep string of the double-bass. With this were intermingled other
sounds shading to the high note which we associate with the Welsh
harper. The sounds were persistent and very loud. The deep bass thrilled
the air and imparted a tremulous motion to the table. Scent came,
and I was controlled both by Mentor and Imperator, who said that
they had wished to try what could be done under such bad conditions.
Se'ance at 20, Mornington-road. Tuesday, July 2nd.—Mr. and Mrs.
William and Mr. and Mrs. Walter Crookes, Miss Douglas, Serjeant
Cox, and myself. Mr. D. D. Home, medium—Home had received a
1
June 28th.—Séance good. Grocyn came repeatedly in a most singular
manner. The sounds were as if a Violoncello had been played on the top of
a big drum, and the strings plucked. Three other musical sounds were
heard. Loud knocks on the table and harmonium alternately. Scent as.
usual.—S.T.S.
2
June 30th.——Short séance by impression (weather very bad). Grocyn’s
sound as extraordinary as ever. Scent showered down several times. John
Dee delivered some great blows on the table. M.S.I. came.—S.T.S.
Y
316 _ The Experiences of W. Staintrm Moses.
bothering letter just before the séance, and we had very scant results.
We were touched under the table, and roses in the middle of the table
were thrown to us. I was touched on face, and knees, and hand. Raps
in the neighbourhood of my chair and on the table near me.
Saturday, July 5th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self—Grocyn very loud.
The sounds produced are indescribable. If a powerful double-bass were
thrummed on a big drum, I doubt whether ‘it could make such a sound.
They were almost continuous. The Welsh harper came, and we had a
new sound, which was vastly like a squeaking whistle. This may have
been attributable to the fact that the power was ill-regulated and
erratic. Scent. Imperator controlled very brieﬂy. He spoke of some
very interesting discussions which I am holding with him [by auto
matic writing].1
Sunday Evening, July 6th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—Grocyn’s
sounds were clear, bell-like, and reﬁned. Occasionally he made a sound
as of a loose or broken string, very curious and loud. The whistle
developed, and was less harsh and unpleasant. N0 scent, but Mentor
made a few small lights whilst I was awake. Knocks in cupboard.2
Wednesday Evening, July 9th.—Dr. S. and self, in study—We sat
alone, Mrs. Speer being out. The séance was very remarkable. Grocyn
commenced as soon as we sat down. His sounds were portentously
loud, at times causing the table to vibrate throughout. In the
air was the sound as of a tambourine and a harsh shrill whistle
almost like a bird’s note. Knocks on the table like small objects falling
and rolling about. Knocks on harmonium, cupboard, and table
simultaneously. Table lifted, harmonium stool moved and brought out,
my chair rapidly pulled away from the table. Books brought from the
harmonium, one pulled out from the book-case, a small picture brought
to the table. All placed on Dr. Speer’s left hand. Scent unlike any
thing we had before. Message :
“ We show our power. Good-night,”
given in Mentor’s knocks.
After 'the séance Dr. S. and I walked up and down in the dining
room, I smoking a cigar. The smell of scent became palpable through the
odour of the tobacco. I casually said : “Now, if they would put it on
1July 5th.—Séance. M.A. unwell. Power erratic. Grocyn came as
usual. J. Dee delivered some alarming blows—really fearful. Table moved
about. A sound like a penny whistle heard several times.-S.T. S.
2July 6th.—Séance. Conditions good. Grocyn and his harper friend
manifested in a most remarkable manner. A tambourine was heard in mid
air. The whistle, now more like a bird, was repeatedly heard all around.
C.P.S.S. came, giving her peculiar knock, like the dropping of
'
shot on
the table. She gave (through the table), when inquired of :
“ I knock by
my will." Lights seen around the medium, who himself saw them, not
being entranced.- They were not so distinct as when he is entranced.—-S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 317
the blotting pad we could see it.” (A pad lay on the table.) Immediately
wet scent fell on the pad, and this phenomenon was repeated 2. dozen
times, I should think. The little bird-whistle also followed us and
sounded repeatedly, near the ceiling, apparently. The sound was much
less than it had been in the dark room. The dining-room was well
lighted, and lowering the gas did not seem to make any diﬂ'erence.L
Saturday, July 12th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. Speer, Dr.
Thomson, of Clifton, and myself—We sat in the dining-room, and
obtained the usual phenomena—scent, the musical sounds, raps, tilts, &c.
We tried bringing the small table out from the study, but the raps
came on the large dining-table at once ; and we were told to move to
it. We sat for the lights in the cabinet upstairs, and some large ones
appeared, of a similar nature to those which I have described before.
Mentor and Imperator both controlled, and spoke to Dr. Thomson. The
control was short. Mentor lie, Mr. Moses controlled by Mentor] came
out from the cabinet and walked into the circle upstairs. Scent came
upstairs for the ﬁrst time.2
Sunday, July l3th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self, in study.—-Grocyn’s
sounds very loud Scent. Lights formed behind me, and Imperator
entranced me. Dr. Speer describes the lights as being very diffused,
and similar to those shown from the cabinet, but not so brilliant.
Imperator spoke sadly of the difﬁculty of controlling me, and of the
discussion which I have had with him now for a long time. I have
argued out with him the question of his identity, and of the pretensions
he makes, as well as of the general outcome of Spiritualism. The tone
1July 9th.—Séance. Mr. M. and self sat alone in my study. All the
usual phenomena. Grocyn, the bird, scent, &c., presented themselves in a.
very short time, and with greater intensity than ever, the Violoncello or
harp sounds actually sending powerful thrills up our hands to the shoulder,
and even through the body. The bird-whistle came with great power, and
very close. The scent fell like rain. The harmonium bend was moved out
and a number of books were brought from it one after another and placed on
my left hand. A frame, containing one of C.’s certiﬁcates, was also placed
across my hand, and a large book—~Vol. 2 of Count Beaulus—was ﬁnally
placed on the pile already formed on the table. Great thumps were heard
almost simultaneously on the cupboard door and at the farthest end of the
harmonium. On returning to the lighted dining-room, scent (verbena) was
several times, and by desire, thrown on a blotting pad ! Z Z—S.T.S.
2July 12th.—Dr. Thomson, of Bristol, joined our séance. The study
table was placed in the dining-room, but the phenomena were very slight.
We left it and sat round the large dining-table. Grocyn came as usual.
Heliotrope scent was thrown over each in turn ; and a large number of splendid
lights, apparently held by hands, were seen in the cabinet. I myself saw
an arm apparently holding one of these lights.—-S.T.S.
Y 2
318 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
was—as described to me—slow, solemn, and very impressive. A few
lights were made by Mentor for me to see, but I was half-entranced.
Monday, July Lilla—Dr. and Mrs. 8., Mr. Percival, and self—We
sat ﬁrst in the dining-room. The séance throughout was good. There
was a deal of light in the room, diffused; C.P.S.S. was plain to me,
and rapped on the table with the peculiar dropping rap. Raps
commenced almost as soon as we sat down, and the scent came. (We
had three kinds during the evening.) Grocyn’s sounds were louder
than I ever heard them in the dining-room, though still not so loud as
they are in the study. They varied from the deepest bass to the
highest treble. The whistle came again, apparently up in the air near
the ceiling. Imperator came, and spoke at length in answer to
Percival’s questions. He promised to endeavour to put himself in
communication with another medium, so as to give me corroborative
evidence as far as possible; He replied also to questions about the
spheres and other points. We then sat for lights upstairs, and had a
number. I was in the deepest trance. Dr. S. describes them as not
so brilliant as usual, but clear, and with a bright nucleus. Some were
shown with a hand holding them, the hand large, and the ﬁngers
pointing upwards. Mentor controlled afterwards, and walked out as
usual, talking easily, but in a totally different way to Imperator. He
said the conditions of atmosphere and medium had been unfavourable.
Scent was again showered through the aperture of the cabinet.‘
July l5th.~—Séance in the study at Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs.
Speer and myself—Imperator, in consequence of my persistent dis
belief in his pretensions, had retired, and had threatened to withdraw
the power. Scent came in showers; but no other manifestation was
given except a few knocks. The scent was literally rained down on
us. It was a very beautiful scent, like sandal-wood, at ﬁrst. After
wards there came a scent of a totally different kind. The room was
so permeated with the odour that it remained till the next day. Scent
fell before we began to sit, and at intervals during the day we had
perceived it about my head.2
1 July 14th.—Séance. Mr. Percival joined us. Grocyn as usual, with
Violoncello, harp, and tambourine ; sounds of a most distinctive and unmis
takable character. Mr. P. greatly astonished. The whistle heard. C.P.S.S.
came. Jasmine scent abundantly showered down both in the dining-room
and bedroom. Large lights (held by large hands) seen emerging from the
cabinet. Medium in deep trance as usual during lights. Flowers from
centrepiece thrown about freely.—S.T.S.
2Snnday, July 20th.—Séance with Mr. M., Mr. Harrison, and self. Mrs. S.
in bed. Grocyn most distinct and clear ; the whistle also heard several times.
Mr“ H. said he thought it would develop into a voice. Raps heard all over
the table, especially in front of Mrs. S.’s vacant chair. At last some extra
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 319
August 9th.—We resumed our sitting, and Grocyn again mani
fested very beautifully. Mentor showered scent, and I witnessed the
formation of some eight or nine very beautiful spirit-lights. They
formed quite close to me and near my left hand, about a foot from the
ﬂoor, ﬂoating upwards till they reached the level of the table and
became visible to Dr. Speer. They were expressly made at my side,
instead of, as usual, at my back, so that I might see them. They
seemed to develop from a very bright speck, about the size of a pea,
until they attained the size of a soda water tumbler, and showed a soft
luminosity like pale moonlight. They seemed to be covered with
drapery and to be held by a hand. They faded slowly out, remaining
visible about thirty or forty seconds, or perhaps a minute. The largest
would be about eight inches long.
Imperator came for a short control, and said that Mentor had made
the lights for me to see. They dared not do so in town when I was at
work, and it was not safe to make them except when I was without
other demands on me. They were typical of the light the spirits shed,
and had a spiritual meaning, as all spiritual phenomena had. He
ordinary knocks were heard (as I believe) on another small table and on a chair
near it. When asked to knock on the table, knocks of the sharpest kind
came on the table and then on the ﬂoor. It was as if large glass marbles
had been thrown on the table, had bounded off on the ﬂoor, and then rolled
away. Till a. light was struck it was almost impossible not to believe that
such had been the case. Two scents came ; one (by request) saturated a
pocket-handkerchief belonging to Mrs. S. Adieux. No lights.—S.T.S.
320 The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses.
spoke very gravely and mournfully of the state of Mrs. Colt, who
lies in London seriously ill with typhoid fever. Several com
munications have been made to me on that subject. One night
at Enniskillen I was kept awake all night by loud' raps. “Ill”
was all the communication I could get. Afterwards, at dinner
on the next day, when Dr. S. was present, raps came again. “Ill”
was spelled, and when I asked who, “B. C.
”
was given, the initials of
Mrs. Colt’s name. (On many occasions I have felt sympathetically ill,
and have been told that the cause was the same.) Imperator spoke
very mournfully and said that she was grievously ill. They did all
they could, but could not get near her. He said that seven spirits
were watching Mrs. Speer at Shanklin.
August lOth.-—Dr. S. and self at Garrison [Ireland].—The manifes
tations commenced with Grocyn’s lyre-sound, which was very clear and
_melodious. Scent came, and then the lights—some sixteen of them,
one after another, on both sides of me. They were large and clear and
formed near the level of my knee, rising gradually above the table.
Afterwards Mentor entranced me and spoke for more than half-an
hour to Dr. Speer. He describes his mode of speech as abrupt and
the tone as a hoarse whisper; all unnecessary words left out. He
explained that he would bring a light on the table and knock with it.
This he did several times in succession, ﬁnally showing his hand in
front of the last. Dr. S. describes it as a well-formed hand. One of
the attendant spirits being noisy, Dr. S. said he feared the noise would
awaken the inmates of the inn. Mentor said he would send him away.
He knocked three times and said, “ He is gone.” He did not appear
again. This spirit resembles Rector very much, and is the personal
attendant of Mentor, as Rector is of Imperator. He shakes the ﬂoor
very much like Rector. During this and the previous night loud
knockings were heard in my room, and Dr. Speer was kept awake a
long time, three or four hours, by them. Mentor wished to put the
light in my hand, but failed in the attempt. On one occasion the
advent of scent was preluded by a prolonged whistle.1
1 Detailed record of séances held at Garrison, Loch Melvin, N. IV. of Ireland,
by Mr. M. and self.
August 10th.—Sat down about half-past nine p.m., room well darkened.
Raps began very soon on different parts of the long table at a distance from
us, and on Mr. M.’s chair. These knocks soon assumed the dropping
character in the most marked manner. A novice would have been positive that
small objects had been thrown on the table (ride séance of July 20th). Knocks
heard in other parts of the room. Scent (sandal-wood) was freely scattered,
and on my asking for more we heard a sound like a prolonged wh——sh,
and then a quantity was actually squirted in my face. Suddenly a large
The Experiences of W. Stai'nton llIoses. 321'
August llth.—Dr. S. and I, as before—Dr. S. had written an account
of the last séance according to Mentor’s direction, and we agreed to lay
it on the table and to ask Mentor to sign it with his name. The mani
festations commenced by raps, succeeded by Grocyn’s musical sound.
Then came the lights as before, a dozen or more. They were precisely
similar to what I have before described. I was then deeply entranced,
and depend for the account of what then occurred entirely on Dr.
Speer. My consciousness is utterly lost. Mentor speaks in a hoarse
whisper, very short and sententious. Before I was entranced the.
lights were placed on the paper which we. wished him to sign. After
I was entranced Mentor brought the light down ﬁve or six times upon
the paper. He then said that he would illuminate the medium’s face.
He did so, passing the light over it backwards and forwards. The
eyes were closed, and the face quite passive. He then explained the
process of making the lights—which Dr. Speer does not remember—
said that the light was surrounded by drapery, and to prove it he
brushed Dr. Speer’s hand, which was on the table, backwards and
forwards with ﬁne drapery very distinctly materialised. This was
repeated ﬁve or six times, attention being directed to the character of
the light and the ﬁneness of the drapery. On being requested, he
placed the light close to Dr. Speer’s face, ﬁrst of all telling him to
lean over and place his hands on the table, within the sphere of
inﬂuence. He was to shut his eyes, and to open them when told.
When he did so, the light was within an inch of his face, very bright,
light, fully formed, came from under the edge of the table opposite
to me, to the left of Mr. M. It rose above the edge of the table
and vanished ; it was followed by several more. We asked if
the light could be brought and placed on the table between Mr.
M. and self. The next light came up, rose above the table, and
advanced to its centre, in obedience to our request. Lights now rose up on
Mr. M.’s right hand ; some came close to his face. In all about ﬁfteen great
lights showed themselves, varying from the size of an orange to that of a
shaddock. Grocyn’s harp was now heard in the most distinct manner. The
sounds were absolutely identical with those of a stringed instrument, without
a trace of the wooden character. Loud raps of three kinds occurred simul
taneously, and ere long Mr. M. was entranced and Mentor came and
addressed me (through him) in his short. sententious manner. I thanked
him in our joint names for his wonderfully beautiful manifestations, at
which he seemed much gratiﬁed. He then told me to draw back from the
table and he would try and place the light in the medium’s hand. \Ve con
tinued talking, when a large light rose up from under the table and came to
the middle of it. It was followed by another. I asked if these were actually
in the medium’s hand. He said “ No—he could not achieve it. But,"
said he,
“ I will knock with the light in front of you.” Almost immediately
a light came up as before, and advanced close to me upon the table. ‘ ‘
You
322 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
and as large as the globe of a moderator lamp. This was twice
repeated. He then told Dr. Speer to rub his hands together and on
his coat, and then to place them on the table. Soon a large bright
light came, held by a hand which was, as before, within the drapery ;
but before the light was another hand, which was worked about before
the light, so as to show it clearly. Dr. S. was again told to rub his
hands on his coat and to place them on the table. When he had done
so Mentor rapped on them with his hand holding the lamp. He then
said that he was summoned away, but before he went he would
endeavour to aﬂix his mark to the paper which had been prepared. He
did so, the pencil being very plainly heard moving over the paper. The
sign is facsimiled below.
The circle and interlaced triangles always accompany his signature.‘
see ! You see 3
”
quoth Mentor. “ Yes, I see.”
“ Now listen, I knock.”
The light rose slowly about three inches from the table on which it rested and
struck three distinct blows. Mentor repeated this six or seven times. He
then said,
“ Now I show you my hand.” A large, very bright light then
came up as before, casting a great reﬂection on the oilcloth, came up as
before in front of me ; inside of it appeared the hand of Mentor, as distinct
as it can well be conceived. “ You see I You see !
"
said he. . “ That is my
hand ; now I move my ﬁngers,” and he continued to move his ﬁngers about
freely, just in front of my face. I thanked him for his consideration, and
he said he would show greater wonders still. I should say that before the
last light appeared he had told me to draw up and replace my hand. He
talked more about what we might expect if the favourable circumstances con
tinued. He checked hislieutenant, who was stamping about the room in
too demonstrative a. manner ; gave me a special dose of scent ; told me to tran
scribe accurately all I had seen and heard ; told me to make the medium
wash his face in cold water before I related anything to him, and be sure
and tell him everything. He laid great stress on this, and exhorted me
strongly. \Vished me good-night and departed.—S.T.S.
1
August 11th.—Sat again at a quarter to ten. Raps began almost imme
diately, and of the same character as on the preceding evening. I had placed
the written record of the previous séance (August 10th), together with a
pencil, in front of me. Grocyn again came. His sounds were perfect. Soon
The Experiences of W. Stainto'n, Moses. 323
August l2tk.—Dr. Speer and self, at Garrison.——'We commenced by
rubbing our hands, and raps at once occurred. Grocyn clear, and the
whistle, but not loud. Lights clear and large. Grocyn’s sound led
Dr. S. to say it was like King David’s harp. Grocyn at once called
for the alphabet and said, “ I know him.” Dr. S. said :
“ Extra
ordinary !
” “ Not at all,” said Grocyn. Imperator entranced me and
said that the raps which had disturbed Dr. S. had been caused by the
efforts of the band to prevent some undeveloped spirits from manifest
ing. We had been to an old churchyard where there were some
curious tombs, and some spirits had attached themselves in eagerness
to manifest. He also said that I ought not to go to sleep in the day.
I had taken a nap after dinner. He explained that the lights were
made from a germ of magnetism which was brought. This germ was
invisible to the natural eye, and continued so until it was surrounded
by an envelope of something which was taken from the circle and
medium. This was covered with spiral drapery. Several of the lights
a large light came up from under the table, and came upon it. Knowing
that Mentor was present, I asked him to bring the light and illumine the
paper, which he did at once, and repeated the operation three or four times.
Light after light followed as before, when again loud raps all over the table,
and Mr. M. became entranced. Mentor now spoke through him. I told
him what I had done, asked if he was satisﬁed, to which he replied
“ Yes,” and he would now show me more. I asked for his sign-manual of
approval to my record, upon which he at once brought a large light, and
placed it on it, so that I could see the writing. He said he would try and
do what I wished. He then said that he would illumine themedium’s face.
He brought a large bright light, and passed it in front of his face, which I
could see. He then explained the process of making the lights, and told me
that the folds I saw around them hanging down were really drapery, which
he would prove to me. He then brought the light close to the back of my
hand, and brushed it backwards and forwards with as distinct a materialised
drapery as can well be conceived. This feat he repeated ﬁrst on one hand
and then on the other, ﬁve or six times, at the same time directing my
attention to the character of the light and the tangibility of the drapery. I
then asked if he could place a light close to my face. He assented,
told me to rub my hands briskly, lean forward, and close my eyes until
told to open them. I did so, and on opening them I saw within
apparently an inch or so of my face a large and very
bright light of this shape, as large, indeed, as the globe
of a moderator lamp. This was also repeated with
equal success. He again told me to rub my hands on
my coat, and to extend them. Soon another large light came in front of me,
held, as on the previous evening, by a hand. On this occasion the hand ap
peared to be outside the light, as it moved the ﬁngers about freely ; and also
removed itself some inches from the light towards me and back again severa
times, as though the light were held in the left hand, and the right hand placed
in front of it at various distances. He again told me to rub my hands and
32A The Experiences of W. Staintori Moses.
were made quite close to me. For all information during the trance
state I am indebted to Dr. Speer.
[A specimen of Mr. Moses’ letters to Mrs. Speer may here be given to
show the way in which he mixes up accounts of the phenomena with topics
of private emotion :—
“ You will have heard of our little séances at Garrison. They must have
been very wonderful. I was, as usual, deeply entranced during the most
interesting parts. But I saw a great deal that was very wonderful indeed,
and we got information about the mode of making the light that was very
curious. At the last séance Imperator introduced S. , and gave us a message
from him, promising that more would come in time. I have had very little
writing, but I expect I shall not get very much whilst I am moving about.
\Ve were constantly wishing that you had been with us at Garrison. You
would have enjoyed the readiness with which Mentor manifested and the
eagerness with which he tried to show how he did everything. He brushed
Dr. Speer’s hands with the drapery in which _his light was shrouded, and
even rapped on his hands as they were laid on the table. His hand was as
fully materialised and as natural as mine.
“ Indeed, both his hands must have been materialised, for he put one
before the light which was held in his other hand. It is all very wonderful
and very convincing. He spoke with great contempt of London atmosphere,
and of me as a. medium under conditions of hard work. I expect that great
results would spring from conditions such as those which we had at Garrison,
but they are not attainable.
“ Since I commenced this letter I have had a very long communication
from Doctor, who has been absent for some time. He speaks a good deal
of our friend, says she is ‘
grievously sick,’ and that the direction of her
mind to Spiritualism, which she associates with me, enables communications
to be made about her state. Doctor says he has no power of predicting the
ultimate result, but says she is in danger, as we call
it,
of being entirely
separated from the body, to which only the strong bond which binds her
to her children yet unites her. He then says somewhat of our shortsighted
ness about what we cell death. He says, in effect, God knows what we can’t
know, and does all for the best. He then goes on to point out at very great
length the necessity of my praying most earnestly, heartily, and unceasingly,
listen. A light came and placed itself over my hand, and Mentor said he
would knock with his hand on my hand, which he did, bringing the bottom
of the light and his own hand most distinctly on the back of mine. He then
said he must go to other work, but would try and write his signature.
I
then heard the pencil writing, the sound being most distinct. He repeated
his admonition of the preceding evening, and departed, leaving a specimen
of direct spirit caligraphy.
In the above account
I
have omitted to mention the manner in which
Mentor asked me to notice how he would renew the light. He withdrew
his hand gradually, and the light became fainter and fainter, till-almost im
perceptible. He then drew his hand in close proximity to the light, which
appeared to grow brighter as the hand came in contact wit-11 it.
I
may add
that
a
small portion of the forearm was also visible.—S.T.S.
The Ewperiences of W. Stainto'n Moses. 325
__ _ .__-_ ____ _____r 7
not of any more speciﬁc petition than that the angel ministers may be able
to reach her to soothe her pain in sickness, or in case of death to receive the
spirit and to usher it into its new sphere. It is an exceedingly solemn
exhortation. They say (Imperator said so, too, the other night) that they
can’t get near on account of opposing inﬂuences. If I were nearer they
could, and my prayers might help more than I can imagine. They speak
most solemnly. I commend their advice to you, for I am sure that such
petitions as you would put up would be at least as eﬁicacious as any that I
could utter. If by such means we are enabled to soothe one pain, or to
convey to the suﬂ‘erer’s mind one feeling of rest, it becomes a sacred duty
to use all endeavours. And none can tell how ‘the slender nerve that
moves the muscles of.Omnipotence
’
may be able to bring down the sooth
ing and blessed influences of the holy angels, nor how far that inﬂuence
may extend. Only that our prayers are so selﬁsh, I believe they would do
far more. The simpler they are the better; the more comprehensivelthe
more powerful.”]
September 6th, 1873.—Séance at Shanklin, Isle of Wight. Dr. and
Mrs. S., and self.—Scent—sandal-wood—in profusion. Raps of various
kinds. Grocyn. Lights made by Mentor. Control by Imperator and
Mentor. This being the ﬁrst time that the circle had met since we
separated in July, the phenomena did not occur so strongly as usual.
The musical sound was very clear, and the lights, some six or seven in
number, were of the usual type. The scent was very plentiful, and
was showered from the ceiling as usual. Imperator spoke somewhat of
our lost friend (B.C.), and said she had not yet awoke.
Sunday, September 7 th.—-Same place and circle—Raps and com
munications from A. W. and C.P.S.S. Scent. Lights, of a totally
different description. One, which remained visible for fully ﬁve
minutes, was apparently a solid sphere of light about two inches in
diameter and six in length. It did not seem to be covered with
drapery, and shone with a clear, pale light. The great peculiarity was
the length of time it remained without renewal. Other lights have
faded very rapidly, lasting from ten seconds up to perhaps a minute.
I believe I have considerably understated the time which this continued.
At request it touched us all, and was 'hard and cold. Several others
followed. Three objects were brought into the room, one from the
dining-room, one from Mrs. Speer’s bedroom, and one from another
room in the house. A spirit, “Harmony,” came and rapped out in
clear little taps: “She is well; still asleep.” This spirit is one who
has never been incarnated on this earth. Imperator and Mentor
controlled, the latter brushing Mrs. Speer’s face and hands with drapery
very strongly materialised. Grocyn’s sounds very clear. We put
down a piece of paper under the table, and had on it a message from
A. W. and C.P.S.S. By mistake the same piece was put down again,
326 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
and on it was a message from Imperator: “ Hail ! Cease not to pray.
The peace of God be with you.-—I.S.D.”-1
Monday, September 8th.—Same circle and place—Scent, raps.
Message from Harmony: “ Still asleep.” Lights of a totally different
description,shrouded with drapery, and not nearly so brilliant, remaining
visible only a short time. Grocyn’s sounds were very good, clear and
less wooden than of old. Mentor controlled very brieﬂy and requested
the room to be made darker for the future. A bright moon was
shining. Paper put under the table, as before, was found to contain a
message from Imperator. There was no pencil with the paper, but two
lay on the table during the evening.2
Tuesday, September 9th.—~Same c0nditions.—-Plentiful scent as
before. Sixteen little pearls were put on the table, six having been
previously given during the day. Mrs. Speer and. I were writing at
the same table, and a pearl was put on my letter as I was writing.
After that I saw a spirit standing by Mrs. Speer, and was told that it
was Mentor, who had put a pearl on Mrs. Speer’s desk. After that four
others came. They seemed to drop on the table, just as I have seen
them with Mrs. A h. [A private lady known to Mr. Moses and to
myself, whose experiences have never been published.-—F.W.H.M.]
We have in all twenty—two now.‘ They are small seed pearls, each
perforated. Mentor showed some wonderful lights. One was so large
and brilliant that it lit up all our faces. It was like a draped tent
with bright light within it. The drapery brushed Dr. and Mrs. Speer’s
hands. Many of them were large, weird and ghost-like. Grocyn
manifested beautifully, and said on his harp that he could not play a
tune through me, but that he was about Charlie, and Mendelssohn
would make him a great musician. We then were told to break, and
on returning to the room before it was darkened my little box with
the two pearls- which Mrs. A——h’s spirits gave me slid gently
into my hand. It startled me very much. The box had been taken
away and to my great grief I could get no tidings of it. Mrs. A.
told me they had been taken to smooth communications with our
friend Sunshine, and that they would be returned. Mentor brought
1
September 7th.—A splendid séance. Grocyn and Mentor. Lights
_ appeared. One, upon request, remained visible and stationary for 45
0 minutes. It assumed the cylindrical shape, thus : and
tilted itself so, as to show its cylindrical character.
Drapery was thrown over our hands and faces, and objects were
brought into the room through closed doors (as usual). —S.T.S.
L'September 8th [9th].—Séance. Direct spirit writing. Obtained a. small
pearl case of Mr. M.’s, which had been lost for a month. Was brought back
in half light, while his hand was on the table, and put into it. It contained
two pearls.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 327
them back. This is one of the most startling evidences I have had.
Imperator brought us news of Sunshine, as Harmony could not come ;
and said she slept still. All was well with her. He delivered a very
long and solemn charge, followed by a beautiful prayer. It was an
exceedingly impressive speech. After the control I was very tired and
exhausted. The séance only lasted one and a quarter hours, but was
very exhausting.‘
September 10m, 1873.--Shanklin, same conditions. —Scent very
abundant. Grocyn played very beautifully, doing exactly what we
asked, even to playing octaves and thirds at Dr. Speer’s request. Small
lights. Imperator controlled for a short time and said that the condi
tions were not good.2
September 11th, 1873.—Same place and circle—Very copious scent,
very sweet. Verbena, being asked for, was given. Waves of cool air,
laden with scent, fanned us. Dr. Speer changed his place, and a.
groaning noise in the table was made until he went back. Then we
were told that the places of the circle must not be changed. At ﬁrst
the lights were a failure until the circle rubbed hands violently ; then
three of the brightest lights we have had came. The lights were large
and draped in long drapery, and the light was brilliant enough to show
a forearm, bare to the elbow. The .hand was quite plain, and the arm
swarthy and rather thin, delicately shaped. It appeared three times.
Mentor afterwards said that in time he could materialise his body if I
were put in a cabinet. Mentor spoke brieﬂy; Imperator did not come
at all. The lights in shape were such as this, but with the drapery
sixteen or eighteen inches in length. Mentor wrote.3
5 . .
f " l
_I
{
Ir
1
September 9th.—Séance. Very good. Pearls brought in daylight. Direct
spirit writing.-—S.T.S.
2 September 10th. —Séance. Conditions not good. Lights few and feeble.
The nuclei ﬂoated about without gauzy envelope.—S.T.S.
3
September 11th.—Séance. Pearls brought. An attempt made to raise
M. A. Table tilted. Three large bright lights, with a quantity of falling
drapery: To each an arm, bare to the elbow, was appended. Mentor gave
direct writing under the table, to the effect that he would eventually show
himself. Grocyn brought Mendelssohn, who could not yet communicate, but
would do so eventually.—S.T.S.
(
\.
328 The Experiences of W. Stai-nton Moses.
September 12th, 1873.—Shanklin. Dr. and Mrs. S., and self—The
phenomena commenced on our rubbing hands, which we did vigorously.
Immediately, during the Invocation with which we began, a round light
was seen close to me, so close that I did not see it. Dr. S. saw it and
called attention to it, when it went out at once. The lights rapidly
developed to an extraordinary pitch. They ﬂashed about backwards
and forwards with great rapidity, darting close to our faces and brushing
them with drapery. The solid cylinder was visible for full ﬁve
minutes and was very brilliant. The drapery seemed to change colour
at times, and to become black, or so dark as to conceal part of the light.
The solid cylinder seemed to be about eight inches long and two inches
in diameter. Mentor controlled, and spoke at length. He brought a
great quantity of scent, which he threw about, and some of it
unfortunately went into Mrs. Speer’s eye, causing us to break abruptly.
It was explained that the scent was brought to improve the atmo
spheric conditions. It- must have been very plentifully scattered, for
everything was spotted with it, and was evidently very pungent and
strong.1
Sunday, September 14th, lS73.——-Same circle and place—Raps
from Mentor, who showed a number of lights, some of which were
comparative failures, the nucleus only being visible. This nucleus
Mentor has explained that he brings with him, and in unfavourable
conditions he is not able to surround it with the luminosity which
he gets from the circle. The power gradually improved until
we had one' of the largest and brightest I ever saw. The light
illumined the walls, and the drapery must have been two feet in length.
Mentor also brushed our faces and hands with his drapery. I had
good opportunity for judging, and I should describe what I felt as the
corner of a very ﬁne muslin robe, ‘but ﬁner and softer than any manu
factured in this country—more like the ﬁnest Indian fabrics. This is
the ﬁrst time I have had opportunity of examining the drapery, and
even now I have not handled it.
Grocyn’s sounds were more beautiful than I have ever heard them,
I think ; clear, resonant, and bell-like. The Holy Maid of Kent showed
herself to me in company with Catharine. She could not talk, but
1
September 13th 12th].—A singular séance. Grocyn absent, for the ﬁrst
time for many weeks. A cylindrical light appeared at once, remained
for some minutes, came again, and moved about in every direction
U
and at all heights with great rapidity. Other lights appeared, of
curious shapes. Scent thrown in great ,
quantities—so much was thrown at Mrs. S. ’s
/, eye as to produce excruciating agony and con
gestion of the eye, with almost blindness for 24
hours—ST. S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 329
rapped continuously little pencil-raps. John Dee gave one moderate
knock. Mentor controlled for a while, and gave us beautiful waves of
scented air, but no liquid, in consequence of the accident. After a
break Imperator controlled for a little time. Sunshine still slept, he
said, and would sleep for some time to come. She had passed through
two spheres of suffering during her illness, but would return and go
through them in the conscious state of spirit—existence. When we
broke up we found some ﬂowers from the middle of the table had been
distributed to each, and a little heap of pearl was put before each.
One hundred and thirty-nine little pearls have now been brought to
us, one hundred and ten in the last two days. Grocyn said he knew
Luther, who was in the Second Sphere. Erasmus was seventeen when
he came to him as pupill
1
September 14th.—Séance. Grocyn most distinct. He answered (through
his harp) questions about Erasmus. Mentor fanned us repeatedly. Three
splendid lights appeared; an arm was seen ; drapery repeatedly thrown over
us. Flowers taken out of a vase upon the table and thrown at us.—S.T.S.
[Mrs. Speer’s account is as follows (Light, August 20th, 1892) :—
September 14th, 1873.——Oircle met at nine o’clock, Mr. S.M. having been
impressed to sit at this hour. I was occupied in my room about the proposed
time of our meeting, when several loud raps came on the door. On opening
it no one was there, so I concluded the friends wished my presence in the
séance-room. I at once joined the medium and Dr. S. On sitting down I
saw a bright ﬁgure standing behind Mr. S.M. \Ve were told it was Mentor.
He then came between us, bringing cool air full of the scent of roses, which he
wafted over our hands and faces. G. manifested, making more beautiful
sounds than usual ; he answered our questions on his musical instrument,
which sounded like a harp. He said he knew Erasmus, that he was seventeen
years of age when he came under his instructions ; he also knew Melancthon
and Luther, of whom he did not express much approval. Mentor then
showed us lights, not equal to those we had previously had, but he was able
to brush our hands with the drapery surrounding them, which felt very ﬁne
and soft, like India muslin. Then G. gave ﬁve twangs on his harp for the
alphabet, spelling out the word, “ Break.”
On returning to the room more beautiful scent was brought, and a little
sprinkled on our hands. Mentor many times during the séance fanned me with
the scent-laden air. He then showed us two or three very large lights. One
must have measured with its drapery quite two feet in height ; he brought
it close to my face, and brushed my hands many times with the drapery ; he
also touched my hand, and his hand felt as human as my own. Mentor
then controlled the medium. and expressed great sorrow for having
accidentally hurt me at a previous séance. The lights were not good, as Mr.
S.M. was ill, and the atmosphere was not right, and this interfered with
their development. The medium then said he saw a fresh spirit standing by
Catharine. She advanced to the table and rapped clearly. \Ve were in
formed it was the “ Maid of Kent,” who had been allowed to come to the
circle for her good. We promised to pray for her. This announcement was
330 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
On September 28th we sat again. In the afternoon we had all
been to Kensal Green Cemetery. We had all the usual phenomena,
and in addition a spirit came which had annexed itself to me in the
afternoon, and rapped very clearly, asking for a prayer. Raps all over
the room. Grocyn carried his sound right away from the circle. At
night I was kept awake by the Kensal Green spirit, who knocked
most violently. A board near me was considerably moved from the
wall, as they wished to put it on the table.
lllonday, September 29th.—Douglas House—A very irregular, dis
turbed séance. I was very far from well, tired and worn out with the
noise and worry of school. Nothing occurred for a long time, and we
made a short break. When we returned very little still occurred, until
sharp raps came, quite outside of the circle. It was one of the same
spirits who had annoyed me lately. It could not come on the table
until we asked
it,
but knocked about outside. At last
it
came much
more gently on the table and asked for prayer. A very curious and
quite new sound was made in the air, between Mrs. S. and myself
;
a
whirring noise, sighing like the wind among the trees.
I
have since
heard
it
in my bedroom. Grocyn manifested, but feebly. We had
some scent also.
I
noticed before
it
came that the air was pervaded
by a damp, unpleasant odour. The whirring noise got so violent near
to my right ear that
I
broke up the sitting. It was like a solid
substance violently whirled round. The spirit would give no name
but “S.”
Sunday, October 5th, 1873.—D0uglas House. Our circle and Mr.
received by many very jubilant raps. Imperator then controlled the
medium, and after saying. “Good evening, friends.” and blessing us, spoke'
for
a
few minutes with difﬁculty. He said
it
would not be well to keep the
control. as the conditions were not good
;
regretted the accident to my eyes,
and said Doctor would give the medium some rules
it
would be well for all
to follow. “We groped,” he said, “in the dark even as they did. With
more perfect conditions the manifestations would surprise us.” Our friend
(to whom reference has been made) was still resting. She had passed through
the spheres of suffering during her illness. “
I
had wished
"
(he continued)
“ to speak to you on the subject of worship, but must postpon‘e doing so
until
a
more convenient season. May the blessing of the Supreme be with
you.” After Imperator left the medium, Mentor brought more scent, and
presented ﬂowers to each of the circle. When we lighted the gas we found
a small heap of seed pearls in front of each of the sitters, placed by the
ﬂowers Mentor had previously given to us.—M.S.]
September 16th.—Séance. Grocyn as usual. He played, by request, on
his invisible tambourine, answered questions, and made some singular wailing
sounds. Mentor made lights, which extended their range of mobility much
[further] beyond the circle than ever; even up on to the ceiling. J. Dee
came and communicated. Rapped more quietly than heretofore. P. came
with very peculiar raps.—S-T.S.
The Experiencesof 'W.Stai1it0n Moses. 331
HarriSon.—We had the usual phenomena very strong. Scent in waves
of cool air, moist scent. Grocyn’s sound very clear. Seneca’s dropping
sound. Rector and Odorifer together, with a multitude of sounds on
the table. Mentor and Imperator controlled. Some small lights were
also made. When we went up into the cabinet upstairs, Mentor
made some very clear lights, one of which endured over four minutes.
I had been very anxious to try the duration of the light, because
an imitation of such lights is made by phosphorised oil; but lights
so made are of very brief duration. I believe that a favourable
trial would show that Mentor’s light would last seven or eight
minutes.
October 14th, 187 3.--Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—We
sat in the study. Nothing occurred for some time. We remarked the
unusual absence, and almost while we were speaking a little Parian
statuette was put upon the table. It was brought from the front bed
room, which I usually occupy when staying in the
house.
It was
followed after an interval by a silver fruit-knife, which was brought
from. a closed workbox of Mrs. Speer’s in the dining-room. We were
then left in peace, and wondered where Grocyn was. A spirit came
tapping, and I asked that Grocyn might be fetched. It was rapped
out: “We are doing so.” Mrs. S., who was calling the alphabet,
stopped, imagining, as we all did, that the sentence was ﬁnished. How
ever, the alphabet was called for, and “
mething else
”
spelt. We could
not conceive what was meant till it occurred to us to put the “so” on to
it,
and we found the sentence to be
:
"‘ We are doing something else.”
We were told to form hands, and something fell on the table, which
turned out to be a snuE-box from Dr. Speer’s dressing-room. Before
it
came he said that he smelt Tonquin bean, which had been in
the box. A curious snapping noise was heard in the air; we had
scent-laden breeze, and then Grocyn came. Dr. S. had procured,
unknown to me, a book (Drummond’s Life of Erasmus), from which he
selected test questions. Grocyn had before told us that he had become
acquainted with Erasmus at the age of seventeen. This, we had
thought, meant that E. became G.’s pupil at that time. We thought
that this contradicted the book, and Dr. S. quoted the book against
Grocyn. G. indignantly twanged out “Imperfect,” and proceeded to
explain that he made E.’s acquaintance ﬁrst when he went to Padua.,
that E. came to England in 1798 and remained one and a-half years.
He also spelt the year of his birth, 1767, making him thirty-one when
he came to England. Dr. S. said, “No, thirty.” Grocyn, however,
contradicted very sharply. The twangs had a curious intensity, just
as expressive as the excited tone of a disputant. Asked by Dr. S.
whether he knew the name of Chalcelydes, he promptly said “No.”
2
332 The Experiences of 'W. Stai'nton Moses.
Dr. S. said: “He was your tutor.” “No.” “But he was.” “No.”
“ Do you know Domitian?” “No.” “Polonius?” “No.” Calling
for the alphabet he twanged out: “Demetrius Chalcondyles,”- and
afterwards “ Politian.”
These turned out to be the correct names. We referred to the book
afterwards and found that Dr. S. had mistaken or forgotten the names.
The fact of Erasmus’ staying one and a-half years we none of us
knew, and that Grocyn studied at Paris is not mentioned in the book. It
was a very curious piece of evidence as to identity. Some of the facts
were unknown to any of us. Some, e.g., names and dates, were wrongly
read and given, and were corrected promptly, the communicating spirit
showing just the same impatience as a man would who was examined
as to his life and heard false statements made. The twangs were of
great intensity, and the spirit showed a complete acquaintance with
Grocyn’s life, which is a very strong argument for identity. One
would think a personator would not have got so indignant. He got
very wroth indeed. It was altogether curious evidence for identity as
against unconscious cerebration. The dropping sound of Seneca was
very loud indeed, and frequently repeated both on the table and
harmonium stool.1
END or CITATIONS FROM Mn. Mosss’ NOTES.
1Séance on October 14th.—Mrs. S., Mr. M., and self—For some time
nothing occurred, but then raps were heard in various places-on the ﬂoor, Mr.
M.’s chair, on the cupboard, in the air. Presently a small marble statuette
was brought from the spare bedroom upstairs, through the locked door,
and thrown on the table. Ere long a silver clasped fruit-knife was similarly
brought from a workbox in the dining-room. Shortly afterwards I per'
ceived an aroma _as of a Tonquin bean, and (we had been previously told to
join hands) a snuff-box which I had placed upon the chimney-piece of my
dressing-room upstairs was thrown on the table. _After this there was a
pause ; we expressed astonishment at not hearing Grocyn, and asked if he
could be fetched. “ We are doing so,” was the reply ; but we jumped pre
maturely at our conclusion, for on resuming alphabet we were much puzzled
by the words “ _mething else," the phrase standing thus, “ We are doing
something else.” This, in reality, preceded the appearance of the snuff-box,
and doubtless referred to it. After another pause Grocyn came most dis
tinctly. I at once entered into conversation with him respecting Drum
mond’s Life of Erasmus and the mention of his own name, &c., in that
work. I asked for the initial of the country he (Grocyn) had studied at, and
it was given, “Italy, University Padua.” I asked if he knew the names
of Dionysius Calcedonys, and of Polonius ; answer negative. I remon
strated, having written those names down the day before from Drummond’s
work. He then asked for alphabet, and gave the following names, which, on
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 333
I here close for the present the series of quotations from Mr.
Moses’ records. We have traversed just a year from the date—
November, 187 2—when the continuous series of these records begins.
And the reader has been introduced to nearly all the classes of
phenomena, which continue in varying intensity for some six or seven
years longer. It will not be necessary to follow them to the end in
equal detail. But, on the other hand, in the next instalment of
evidence we must deal with Mr. Moses’ automatic writings as well,
and we must endeavour to give some such general view as may throw
light on the diﬂicult question of the nature and identity of the
intelligences at work. Can we ascribe all the phenomena to some
operation of Mr. Moses’ own subliminal self 1 or were other intelligences
engaged? and, if so, did they in any sense correspond to the persons
under whose names they announced themselves? _
But although anything like a comprehensive survey of the
phenomena must thus be deferred for a further paper, some clearness
may meantime be gained by a brief preliminary classiﬁcation,—which
may also indicate the kind of diﬁiculties which each possible explana
tion of the records will have to meet.
I. In the ﬁrst place, as already implied, it is manifest that all the
phenomena do in some sort cohere together, and form parts of a single
referring to Drummond’s work, were found to be perfectly correct :
Demetrius Chalcondyles, and Politian. He said he had studied at Paris;
that Erasmus remained a year and a~half at Oxford, and arrived there at the
age of thirty—eight. All this was found (on reference) to be perfectly correct,
although no one had any knowledge of the latter facts, and the medium had
never seen the work of Drummond. The singular part of the scene con
sisted in the extraordinary evidence of personal feeling made by Grocyn
through the medium of his harp. The sounds were typical of approval,
disapproval, anger, impatience, and on one occasion a powerful string
sound changed instantly into a parchment sound. After a. pause two
most violent blows fell on the table, so that we instinctively extended our
hands to seek the fallen objects. Nothing was to be felt. Mrs. S. being
somewhat startled, we suggested moderation. The sounds were transferred
to the harmonium, rolling from that upon the stool, then on the ﬂoor, and
under the table towards my chair. This occurred upwards of ﬁfteen times,
and would have led anyone not accustomed to these manifestations to expect
to ﬁnd a corresponding number of hard bodies on the ﬂoor. Needless to say,
nothing was found. -
'
Grocyn’s information forms, I conceive, a most important contribution
to the much vexed question of personal identity.—S.T.S.
[This and similar biographies will be the subject of discussion later,
—F.W.H.M.] ‘ I ‘ I, _ _
z
2_
334- The EmperienCes of W. Stainton Moses.
and prolonged eﬁ'ort, whose constantly avowed aim is the promulgation
of important'truth. The authors of the automatic writing assert in
all possible ways that they are the authors of the physical phenomena
as well. Each series presupposes and refers to the other. The trance
addresses given at the séances are continued by the messages written in
privacy. The phenomena of the séances are predicted in the automatic
script, and similar phenomena sometimes occur to Mr. Moses when'
alone. 'Nay, the' actual writing itself is common to both series. The
“ controls
”
who write by Mr. Moses’ hand as he sits alone produce in:
the séance-room “direct writing,”--inscribing their names on blank
Paper without the intervention of any human hand. The signatures of
the automatic and the direct script are practically identical ,'—the only'
difference being that the direct script looks as though written with“
greater effort. Whatever element, then, either of weakness or of
strength is to be found in any part of Mr. Moses’ evidence, that
strength or weakness affects all the evidence alike.
II. The relation between what we should call objective and what
we should call subjective phenomena is in fact much more complex
than is implied in mere community of origin. This matter is treated
of in the automatic script, and our discussion must be deferred until
we have those statements before us. Meantime it is well to point out
that the phenomena alleged go far beyond mere “telekinesis,”—that
power of moving objects at a small distance from the body which, as
was suggested in a, previous paper, may conceivably be a power
inexplicably inherent in man in somewhat the same way as the power
to move his own limbs is inexplicably inherent. In these records we
ﬁnd asserted what we can only describe as a transcendental chemistry ;'
—a power of- producing light without heat, like the glow-worm ; a power
of overcoming the force of cohesion, of disaggregating matter and re
aggregating it in the same or different forms ;—and even a power of
simulating in this re-aggregated matter that initiative and self-adaptive
ness to which we give the name of life.
III. One more comment on the phenomena as a whole will not be
superﬂuous. To the ordinary reader these marvels will inevitably
appear arbitrary and incoherent. He will think that one might as
well have copied the so-called “ phenomena
”
straight from the Arabian
Nights; have asserted that Mr. Moses was made half of ﬂesh and
half of marble; or that he ﬂew on a wishing-carpet; or that the
genie burst out of the bottle in a pillar of smoke. There
is,
however,
something more of method in this apparent madness, although
it
is
a method which we can as yet only observe and not explain.
The fact
is
that the phenomena alleged to occur at séances may be
divided roughly into three classes :—
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 335
1.—The ﬁrst and by far the largest class consists of tricks whose
mechanism is perfectly well known,—as well known as the way
in which the ordinary avowed conjurer produces the rabbit from
the hat. These tricks, indeed, are generally on a lower level
than those of the conjurer at a fair; but in spite of repeated
exposures they serve, when dished up with the appropriate
“ patter,” to deceive the great mass of wonder-seekers bent on
the supernatural.
2.—The second class consists of phenomena somewhat similar to
those of the ﬁrst class, but not at present reproducible by
ordinary conjurers. If these are genuine, then we may call the
ﬁrst class imitations of them. If they are fraudulent, they
indicate that here and there a so-called “medium” has pro
fessional secrets of his own.
3.—The third class consists of a few rarely attested phenomena,
of which Home’s ﬁre-test is an example, which are not only not
completely imitated, but are not imitated with any kind of
plausibility, by even the most accomplished conjurers. Here
we have to assume either genuine phenomena, or 'some kind of
hallucination induced in the observers in some not readily
imitable way.
Now, in no one of these classes is the range of alleged phenomena
very wide ; and the phenomena in each class have a certain analogy
to the rest. Such an analogy can of course be explained in
two ways. Either all these phenomena are conjuring tricks, of which
some are better and some are worse 3 or some of the phenomena are
real, and the rest are imitations, which aim less successfully at the
same effects. At this moment, however, I am not discussing the
question of fraud, but merely showing that the phenomena, true or
false, are constantly and independently repeated, and have not,
therefore, the arbitrariness and unexpectedness which characterise the
marvels of the Arabian Nights. The simplest way of showing this
will be to set aside all performances of paid mediums, and taking only
such non-venal phenomena as have been printed in our Proceedings
and Journal as possessing a primafacie claim to conﬁdence, to exhibit
336 The Experiences of W. Stainto'n Moses.
in tabular form their coincidences with the phenomena described in
Mr. Moses’ records1 :—
I - I
m
E" s
33' E
E
_ _
B '6 8 r EE' s g
8 is 2: ﬁg .2 57;
W.S.M.’s princi- a" lacs
3.;
ig
ab
5
5
_
_g
3
s: g o .i
pal phenomena.
5
i,
g
2
.2
g
E
g
ﬁg
'2
g
{g
‘6
H
g
5
o
q; 'i'
a
= o 'd
4) .,.. O
s" 3%
g
23
3:
E
s
‘”
f;
B
s
_
1’-
gs
'5
3
= ._
3
3.
5i
8
=
8
a
E
.5,
=
g
p o > ._
g
g
.2
g
.e.
3
,9 .= a ..
.5
S
.3
n
m
a
w
a
m a o
m
7-:
Barrett’s subjects x X X x x
Bristowe and
friends x X
Dariex’s subjects x x
Davis children x x x x x
Gasparin x
“ Mr. H.”(friend
of Mr. Crowe) x x
x
x x x x
D. D. Home x x x x x x x x x x
Mr. O.’s friend x X
The crosses show the phenomena alleged to have been obtained in
each-case. In minor cases also recorded in Proceedings and Journal
the phenomena have been much the same.
I
repeat that this general concordance of phenomena does not in
itself prove anything except that the phenomena are not alleged at
random. In the same way the general concordance of automatic
teachings does not in itself prove anything except that the subliminal
self thinks by preference in certain directions. But in each case, in
that of the “
physical
”
and in that of the “intellectual” manifestations,
these general tendencies are likely, in some direction or other, to point
the way towards an ultimate explanation.
1
I
have added M. de Gasparin’s phenomena, not yet printed in Proceedings
S.P.R., but mentioned by Mrs. Sidgwick in her article on “Spiritualism” in
the Encyclopedia Britannica; and some incidents recorded by Professor Barrett
in the Dublin University Magazine for December, 1877, with some of Home’s
phenomena not speciﬁed in the articles on him in S.P.R. Journal. The other
phenomena referred to will be found as follows :—Bristowe, Proc., Vol. VII., p. 383
:
Dariex. Vol. VII., p. 194: Davis, Vol. VII., 1). 173: “Mr. H.,” Vol. VII., p. 189:
D. D. Home, Journal v01. 1v., pp. 141, 249; Mr. 0,’S friend, Proc.,Vol. IX., p. 121.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 337
And now for a few words on the origin of these phenomena, if
they were not in fact the supernormal occurrences which they pretend
to be.
Collective hallucination,—the ﬁrst idea which will present itself to
those who realise the strength here of the testimony to character,
—seems excluded by the number of permanent traces which the
phenomena left behind them. If objects are brought during th
séance out of rooms which Mr. Moses had never avowedly entered, a
are actually found and remain in the séance-room afterwards, there, as
been more than a hallucinatory percept ,--—a transposition of matter, by
normal or supernormal means, has actually been effected. Evidence of
this kind abounds in the records in question.
Shall we say, then, that the phenomena never occurred at all?
that the records are from ﬁrst to last absolutely false, and concocted to
deceive the world, with no basis whatever? This view might have
been upheld had the circle been always restricted to Mr. Moses and
the Speer family. But it was not so restricted. Some dozen other
persons, who cannot plausibly be held to be all in the fraud, witnessed
the phenomena. It is true that some of these witnesses are now dead
or inaccessible. But Serjeant Cox left a printed statement ; Dr.
Thomson, of Clifton, proved his belief by continued collaboration ;
Mr. Percival, Mrs. Garratt, Miss Collins, and Mrs. Honeywood are still
living, and cannot with any plausibility be treated as accomplices. Mr.
Percival’s evidence, in particular, is that of an outside and occasional
member of the group, who is honourably known in academic and ofﬁcial
life, and who would have had everything to lose and nothing to gain by
complicity in such a fraud. He and Serjeant Cox and Mrs. Honeywood
and the rest may of course have been dupes ; but at least their testimony
shows that something suﬂiciently like Mrs. Speer’s published record to
enable them to subscribe to its general accuracy did actually occur.1
Printed testimony from Mr. Percival has already been quoted, and
will be quoted again in a further paper. He was, moreover, a principal
redactor of such trance-utterances as were given in his presence ; and
thus Mrs. Speer’s records printed in Light are largely due to him. As
an intimate friend he was kept well informed of the progress of the
phenomena throughout ; and it was, in fact, from him mainly that
Edmund Gurney and I received convincing verbal corroboration of Mr.
Moses’ statements after our early interviews with Mr. Moses himself.
1
Just as this paper passes through the press two important MS. books of the late
Miss Birkett, who died in 1881, have been found and sent to me. They contain con
temporary notes of various séances between 1874-1880 at which Miss Birkett was
present (which notes, so far as I have yet studied them, appear fully corroborative
of Mrs. Speer’s accounts), and add some interesting matter. These notes will be con
sidered in the next paper. Mrs. Garratt has also kindly sent me contemporary note
of a few séances,—also concordant, to be mentioned hereafter.
338 The Experiences [of 'W. Stainton‘Moses'.
The testimony of an occasional member of the circle has been sent
to me as follows :—
Chadbury, Evesham, \Vorcestershire.
December 6th, 1893.
I was witness to the following phenomena, which took place at some of
the séances held at the house of Dr. and Mrs. Speer, under the mediumship
of Mr. S. Moses. Some of the raps were very loud, others clear, small and
rapid. The musical sounds were varied. I can describe one as soft and like
an Eolian harp passing through the air, another like the chord of a Violon
cello pulled very strongly and reverberating through the large dining-table.
A small stone cross was brought to me, delicious scents pervaded the
atmosphere, and ﬂoating lights were visible in many parts of the room.
HELEN C. COLLINS.
I Another friend of Dr. Speer’s, well known to myself, is Dr. Rooke,
a practising physician, of 7, Bays Hill-villas, Cheltenham. Dr. Rooke
writes to Mrs. Speer, November 23rd, 1893 :-
“As regards communications I had from Dr. ‘Speer 'in ,re Spiritualism, I
had a good many, taken altogether, and spread over the whole time from his
ﬁrst becoming interested in the subject. I well recollect that he and Mr.
'Moses spent a Sunday afternoon at my house, shortly after their Isle of Man
experiences, and the account they gave me of the disturbance of articles in one
of their bedrooms and the symmetrical way in which heterogeneous objects
had been arranged on the bed, the room having been previously locked, and
they having taken precautions against tricks on the part of any servant, and
I think also articles being also apparently brought through closed doors.
Then again, after several letters on the matter I had from Dr. S., he came
down to Cheltenham and stayed some days with us‘ (you were not with
him), in which we talked the whole matter over repeatedly. He described
your séances at your own house and the various physical phenomena which you
have lately published an account of. I well recollect his laying stress on the
ponderons shaking of the furniture and ﬂoor of the room which one of your
spiritual visitors was in the habit of producing. He, like myself, was far
more interested in abnormal physical phenomena than in any trance mani
festations 0r spirit-teachings through the mouth of any medium.”
Dr. Rooke encloses a letter from Dr. Speer, which is worth quoting,
as the only letter which I have seen in which Dr. Speer describes the
phenomena to a friend outside the special group. It is dated 13,
Alexandra-road [Douglas House], N.W., July 13th, 1874.
“ We have had two new spirits, one, ‘Kabyla,’ an old Indian, passed
thousands of years ago ; he has brought a new light, and materialised some
beautiful ﬁne spirit drapery (upon his ﬁrst attempt), which he swept over
our hands. We had last night an admirable specimen of zither playing,
for a length of time. The performer (we don’t know his name yet) actually
performed what is called a free prelude; that is to say, a short unbarred
composition. The whole thing was most marvellous, for there is no zither
in our house, and it is an instrument that cannot be mistaken. Indeed, on
his departure, Grocyn, who dropped in immediately after for a chat, produced
his own sounds, and the contrast was of the most decided character.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 339
“ The other evening a new comer slipped in, and stank us out of the room
,by throwing down from the ceiling a large quantity of Sp. Pulegii. Every
thing that it touched was impregnated for 24 hours. The dining-room cloth
and my own nether habiliments had to be exposed to view.in the back
garden ; and on the following morning our dining-room ﬂoor and passage had
to be freely fumigated with pastilles. That spirit has not been invited to join
us again.”
Dr. Speer was by no means given (Mrs. Speer tellsme) to prosely
tism; and having met with some sneers when he alluded to these
phenomena in the presence of scientiﬁc friends he formed the habit of
saying little about them. I can, howeVer, add here a letter from an
intimate friend of Dr. and Mrs. Speer, to whom the phenomena
were communicated during their progress :—
96, Great Portland-street, London, W.
, November 23rd, 1893.
, MY DEAR SIR,—I have no hesitation, but a ready willingness, in replying
to your request in the letter of yesterday, that I add my testimony to those
.of the late Stainton Moses’ friends who are in a position to offer an opinion
on the value attaching to the chief witnesses who were privileged to be
'present at the series of experimental psychology with that famous sensitive,
vviz., Dr. and Mrs. Speer.
I had the honour to be accounted by them as a friend, and knew them
both in their home, and the late Dr. Speer as a club friend as well. We
often talked over those well-attested experiments, and I was frequently
shown the place and nature of their conduct and of the truly “ staggering
”
phenomena which were continually being evolved. The smallest details,
with substantial permanent effects, such as direct writing and production
of objects unknown previously to the persons present, were entered into in
reply to my sceptical inquiries and suggestions ; and Dr. Speer, with
whom I claimed common possession of “ agnostic
”
views, yielded me the
Opportunity of measuring his capacity as a logical thinker free from pre
conceived opinions touching the matter in hand. He used to acknowledge
his difﬁculty in accepting the “logic of facts,” but the inevitable working
of an open mind left him no alternative. The effect of such a contact of our
minds. led me to accept his testimony as unquestionable and possessing the
value of absolute and veriﬁable facts.
With regard to Mrs. Speer, that lady, responding to my desire for
information at the source, helped me in every way to the best of her ability.
Her method was to put before me the facts, to show me some of the records,
to describe the conditions under which the séances were conducted, to
exhibit the material results, and with the patience of an experimentalist in
the pursuit of scientiﬁc investigation.
I cannot but think that, those two witnesses, each in their own way, and
supplementing each other, were imbued with the desire to seek out the
treasures of knowledge and make use of the opportunities so fortunately
thrown in their path.
Healthier minds, pursuing their special object with greater success and
sounder judgment, I never met—Yours sincerely,
J. FRED. COLLINGWOOD.
349 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Who, then, was implicated in the fraud, if fraud there were? ‘Mr.
Moses himself must, of course, have been primarily concerned. But
can we say that he performed the tricks in an unconscious state?
Or, whatever his own state may have been, can we say that he
performed the tricks alone ? or with accomplices other than the Speers?
or with only one of the Speers to help him? or must the whole Speer
family be involved ‘I
And ﬁrst as to the hypothesis which would throw the blame on Mr;
Moses’ “subliminal self.” Mr. Moses, by his own account, fell into
trances, both during the séances, in his friends' presence, and also
occasionally when alone in his rooms, as his automatic writings show.
And besides these unmistakable trances, he was (as he himself told
me) once at least for some days in a state of exaltation, which did
not, indeed, prevent him from going through his routine school-work
without attracting comment, but which so far abstracted him from
ordinary life that acts then performed would not necessarily have been
remembered afterwards. This was in direct connection with long
religious messages which were then being written through his hand,
and which deeply moved him. And on one other occasion at least,
hereafter to be mentioned, he became entranced for a few seconds in
the course of ordinary talk, and uttered a sentence of which he had
no subsequent memory.
'
These facts should certainly make us receive with hesitation such
accounts as Mr. Moses gives of physical phenomena occurring when he
was alone. Thus, when on one occasion he mentions in his note-book
that his coat, &c., had been disarranged during the night, we may well
suppose that he himself may have unconsciously moved them. The
same remark would apply to any easily producible phenomenon which
occurred during the séances, when he was in a trance in the dark.
On the other hand, we are told (and the existence of copious notes
of his trance-addresses conﬁrms the statement) that frequently when
he was perceived by his fellow-sitters to be in a trance, they lit a
candle to take down his utterances—and could then, of course, see
him as he sat at the table with them—while raps, apparently in various
parts of the room, continued as usual. On other occasions, no, doubt,
he was entranced while musical sounds were heard, and scent fell, and
globes of light sailed about the room. But these tricks, if tricks they
were, were not such as asomnambulist could improvise, and then wake
up and forget them. No conjurer is so gifted as to ﬁnd gold ﬁsh and
tubes of water under his trick-shirt unless he has previously put them
there. Nor would bladders of phosphorised oil occur spontaneously in
Mr. Moses7 pockets, accompanied with a strong smell of otto of roses.
The tricks, in fact, would have had to be carefully and continuously
prepared and maintained 5 and to say of a busy, active schoolmaster,
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 341
most of whose time was passed in his class-room or on the top of an
omnibus, that he was always packing himself with guitars, phosphorus,
large stones, Chinese chessmen, and small objects from the bedrooms of
his female friends, in a state of distraction, comes too near the indig
nant reclamations of the wives of materialising mediums, who maintain
that false beards and dirty muslin are secreted about their husbandsi
persons by spirit-power..-~ ~
No, if fraud there were, Mr. Moses may no doubt have been' pre
disposed to such fraud by some peculiarity of temperament, but the
fraud was committed, I cannot doubt, with the knowledge and
complicity of every stratum of his being.1
But, in the next place, can we suppose that Mr. Moses, granting
him the use of all his faculties and full preparation, could by his own
act alone have imposed upon the other sitters?
On this point, unfortunately, the very completeness of the
conﬁdence which the Speers felt in their friend’s probity has interfered
with the preservation of the kind of record which we desire. The
whole party were interested in watching the phenomena, and not in
watching each other, and the casual way in which even so important an
evidential point as the existence of a light in the séance-room is
alluded to shows how subordinate the conditions of the phenomena
soon came to be in comparison with the phenomena themselves. Soon
1
Though perhaps somewhat out of place, two testimonials to Mr. Moses may here
be inserted, which have been printed by Mr. Speer in his memoir above referred to.
The ﬁrst, from Maughold Parishioners, on his resigning that cure, runs as follows :—
“ ‘
REV. AND DEAR Sun—We, the undersigned parishioners of Maughold, are much
concerned to learn that it is your intention shortly to resign the position which you
have for some years past so usefully and honourably occupied amongst us. We beg to
assure you that your labours have been greatly appreciated in the parish. The longer
we have known you, and the more we have seen of your work, the greater has our
regard for you increased. The congregations at both the churches under your charge
are very diﬁerent in numbers to what they were some time ago. The schools have
been better looked after; the aged and inﬁrm have been visited and comforted ; and
the poor have been, cheered and helped by your kindness and liberality. By your
courteous demeanour, by your friendly intercourse, and by your attention to the duties
of the parish generally, you have greatly endeared yourself to us all ; and not least to
our respected and venerable Vicar, whose hands we are well satisﬁed you have done
all you possibly could to strengthen. We cannot but feel that your loss will be a very
serious one to the parish, and we should be glad if you could see your way to remain:
ing some time longer with us. By reconsidering your determination, and consenting
to remain, you would place us under a deep debt of gratitude and obligation.’
“ Here follow the signatures of the Rector and Churchwardens, also of ﬁfty-four
of the principal inhabitants of the district.”——Spin't Teachings, Memorial Edition,
1894, p. vii.
Again, on page ix. we ﬁnd notice of another collective expression of esteem.
“ On resigning his post through ill-health, the Council of University College
passed a resolution conveying to Stainton Moses their best thanks for his long and
valuable service to the school, and a special letter of affectionate regret was also sent
to him, signed by twenty-eight of his colleagues.”
342 _The Experiencesjof W. Stalnton Moses.
_came to be, I say, for Mrs. Speer and her son unite in saying that in
the earlier days Dr. Speer was really on the alert as to “ test
conditions ”
5—Mr. Charlton Speer remembering, for instance, that his
father had the legs of the large dining-table unscrewed, and the leaves
separated, when the ﬁrst raps were heard, in order to satisfy himself
that no tricks had been played with that respectable piece of furniture.
But we have here largely to depend upon recollections, such as those
contained in the following letters :—
Ventnor.
November 29th, 1893.
I wish to state that the most convincing evidences of spirit-power always
took place when hands were held.
Other manifestations occurred often in light, such as raps, raising of
table, scent, musical sounds, and showers of pearls. Lights also appeared
all over the room, coming and going by request, and rapping also by request
in different parts of the room.
A book was once brought in light out of one room and put into Mr.
S. M.’s hands, while Dr. Speer was sitting at his side in another room.
I saw a knife jump out of the butter dish and fall on to the table in light.
On one occasion the medium fell on to the ﬂoor in a deep trance, while
Grocyn was making most startling musical sounds, and at the same time
Catharine was rapping loudly to attract our attention, as she wished to give
a message to tell us to help Mr. S. M.
Two cameos were carved in light while we were dining, and message
given, through raps, to tell us where to ﬁnd them. This was a very common
occurrence, as frequent raps and messages would be given while dining in
light.
At one séance as many as seven different sounds were going on at the
same time in different parts of the room. It would have been quite
impossible for any one person to have made them.
MARIA SPEER.
Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
November 27th, 1893.
Referring to your letter of November 17th, in which you ask for more
proof of the fact that Mr. Stainton Moses could not personally have
erformed the manifestations which occurred through his mediumship, I can
only say that when I joined the circle it had been holding its investigations
for several years, and that the minds of the original sitters had been quite
convinced that it was out of the power of any of their members to have
produced the phenomena by trickery or conjuring. When they ﬁrst sat
everything that happened was subjected to a rigid scrutiny, and test con
ditions were imposed with completely satisfactory results. However, during
the time that I sat with the circle I may draw your attention to the follow
ing points :—
(1) That we sometimes had a light during the progress of the mani
festations.
(2) That the phenomena were not conﬁned to any one part of the room,
but took place indiﬁ'erently near the medium and some distance
The Experiences of 'W. Stainton Moses. 343‘
removed from him; also that sounds were heard at various heights
extending from the ﬂoor to the ceiling, and the lights, as often as
not, were ﬁrst seen approaching from the opposite side of the room
to that on which the medium sat.
(3) That the phenomena occurred just as freely in one room as in
another, and were in nowise affected by the séance being held in
other houses, and other places many miles removed from London.
This does away with the somewhat humorous theory of mechanical
contrivances.
(4) That when the medium was in a state of trance we always lit a candle
in order to take notes of what the controlling spirit had to say.
During the control the medium’s hands and face could therefore be
plainly seen, and even then raps could be heard in other parts of the
room.
(5) We often tried, without success, to imitate the various raps, thus
showing that the sounds produced (by the outside intelligences) did
not depend for the quality of their tone upon the nature of the
substance of the table, or whatever other object was apparently
used in their manufacture.
CHARLTON T. SPEER.
Mr. Percival, for whose return from abroad I have waited, before
printing off the end of this paper, sends me the following letter :—
Sproughton Manor, Ipswich.
December 25th, 1893.
MY DEAR MYERS,—I was an intimate friend of the late W. Stainton
Moses for nearly 20 years, and I regard him as one of the most truthful and
upright men I have ever known. I attended a. considerable number of
séances at Douglas House, and I am convinced that it was physically
impossible for him to have produced such a manifestation as the “ shaking
of the ﬂoor ”
of the séance room, which frequently occurred. I also believe
that manifestations such as raps and lights were often produced while he was
in a state of deep trance. With regard to the séances described in your
paper, at which I myself was present, I can fully endorse the records of the
other sitters ; I took notes at the time, which I still possess, and they have
been used by Mrs. Speer. I always considered W. Stainton Moses to be a
man of unusual ability, and I believe he would have succeeded in almost any
line of life which he might have taken up. His mind was perfectly free
from delusions of any kind, so far as I can judge, and in all the aﬂ'airs of
daily life he was eminently practical and conscientious—Yours very sincerely,
F. W. PERCIVAL.
These letters, although of course not equal in evidential value to the
contemporary notes, appear to me to be concordant with those notes, in
which, as will already have been observed, sittings in full or half-light
and sittings with hands held are occasionally mentioned, and mentioned
in an incidental fashion which suggests that there has been no special
effort made to pick out the most evidential occurrences.
344 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Further than this, I repeat, we cannot now go ; and the looseness
of the record on these points may serve to enforce the lesson that all
records of supernormal occurrences, however intimate the group among
whom they occur may be, should be kept with as much as possible of
the precision usual in ordinary physical experimentation. There is no
saying what point may afterwards he raised, what doubt expressed,
which a few words in the contemporaneous record would have cleared
up altogether.
_ And now, assuming, as I think, many readers will do, that Mr.
Moses could not have performed all these supposed tricks unaided,
can we suggest any accomplice other than the Speers themselves?
Could he, for instance, have suborned their servants?
But the phenomena occurred not only in Dr. Speer’s house, or in
houses rented by him, but in the houses of other friends (Dr. Thomson,
Mrs. Honeywood, Serjeant Cox) and in ordinary sea-side lodgings
(Southend, Shanklin, ‘&c.), and especially at a little inn at Garrison, an
Irish village, to Which Dr. Speer and Mr. Moses had gone for some
ﬁshing. It would have been hard to transport either accomplices or
apparatus to all these places in turn.
And now another point suggests itself. What was the attitude of
the younger Speers, the son and daughter, who were children when the
manifestations began, but were admitted to the séances about 1877,
when the phenomena were already on the decline? Can we suppose
that Mr. Moses was in league with their parents to deceive them, or
were they also members of the supposed plot? I have already cited a
brief letter in which Mr. Charlton Speer gives reasons for believing
that he was not deceived by Mr. Moses. I subjoin a longer account
from him, and a brief note from Miss Speer, who is an invalid. It
will, I think, be felt that Mr. Charlton Speer cannot be separated
from his parents in the matter. Honest or otherwise, his position is
the same as theirs.
Mil DEAR MR. MYERS,——Y011 have asked for some of my personal
recollections of séances with Mr. Stainton Moses, at which I was present. I
will endeavour to place before you a few experiences which may be of
interest; and though very much that I remember would merely be a
repetition of Mrs. Stanhop'e Speer’s Records lately published in Light, yet
certain things did strike me very strongly at the time, as being valuable tests
of the genuineness of the manifestations ; and these perhaps might have been
more strongly insisted upon in the Records, had they been prepared for the
perusal of a sceptical, or at any rate an unconvinced, public. The habitual
readers of Light having presumably advanced somewhat beyond the
elementary, but all-important, stage of mere belief in the reality of spirit
manifestations, would probably not set so much store upon the simple details
of tests, uninteresting in themselves, but asked for and given as conclusive
proofs of the spiritual origin of these same manifestations. It is some of these
The Experiences of W. Stat/Mon Moses. 345
occurrences, taking place under test conditions, that I propose to describe to
you. It is important to note that at these séances no less than ten different
kinds of manifestations took place with more or less frequency. On occasions
when we had fewer varieties we were usually told that the conditions were
not good. When they were favourable the manifestations were more
numerous, the raps more distinct, the lights brighter, and the musical
sounds clearer. The various occurrences may be brieﬂy enumerated as
follows:—
1. Great variety of raps, often given simultaneously, and ranging in force
from the tapping of a. ﬁnger-nail to the tread of a foot sufﬁciently heavy to
shake the room. Each spirit always had its own distinctive rap, many of
them so peculiar as to be immediately recognised; and these sounds often
took place in suﬂicient light for the sitters to see each other's features and—I
suppose more important—hands. Raps also were frequently heard on the
door, sideboard, and walls, all removed some distance from the table at
which we sat. These raps could not possibly have been produced by any
human agency ; of that I satisﬁed myself in every conceivable way.
2. Raps which answered questions coherently and with the greatest
distinctness ; also gave messages, sometimes of considerable length, through
the medium of the alphabet. At these times all the raps ceased except the
one identiﬁed with the communicating spirit, and perfect quiet prevailed until
the message was delivered. We could nearly always tell at once with which
spirit we were talking, owing to the perfectly distinct individuality of each
different rap. Some of the higher spirits never—in my time—manifested by
raps at all, but announced their presence by a note of music, or the ﬂash of a
light ; but among those who did manifest in the usual way it would be difﬁcult
to forget Rector’s heavy, ponderous, but muﬂ‘led tread, which shook the whole
room with its weight, while it appeared to move slowly round the circle.
3. Numerous lights were generally visible to all the sitters. These lights
were of two different kinds—objective and subjective ; the former were
usually like small illuminated globes, which shone brightly and steadily, 'often
moved rapidly about the room, and were visible to all the sitters. A curious
fact in connection with these lights always struck me, viz., that looking on to
the top of the table one could see a light slowly ascending from the ﬂoor,
and to all appearance passing out through the top of the table, the table itself
apparently not affording any obstacle to one’s view of the light. It is 'a little
difﬁcult to explain exactly what I mean, but had the top of the table been
composed of plain glass, the effect of the ascending light as it appeared to
one’s organs of vision would have been pretty much the same as it was, seen
through the solid mahogany. Even then, to make the parallel complete, it
would be necessary to have a hole in the glass top of the table,through which
the light could emerge. The subjective lights were described as being large
masses of luminous vapour, ﬂoating round the room and assuming a variety
of shapes. However, Dr. Speer and myself being of entirely unmediumistic
temperaments, we were only able to see the objective lights, but Mr. Stainton
Moses, Mrs. Speer, 'and other occasional sitters frequently saw and described
those which were merely subjective. Another curious point in relation to the
objective lights was that however brightly they might shine they never
—unlike an ordinary lamp—threw any radiance around them or illuminated
346 The vEacloe'mlénoes of W. Stainton ‘Moses'.
the smallest portion of the surrounding darkness—when it was dark— in the
slightest degree.
4, Scents of various descriptions were always brought to the circle —the
most common being musk, verbena, new-mown hay, and one unfamiliar odour
which we were told was called spirit-scent. Sometimes breezes heavy with
perfume swept round the circle, at other times quantities of liquid musk, 620.,
would be poured on the hands of the sitters and, by request, on our
handkerchiefs. At the close of a séance scent was often found to be oozing
out of the medium’s head, and the more it was wiped away, the stronger
and more plentiful it became. - ~
5. Themusical sounds, which were many and of great variety, formed a very
important item in the list of phenomena which occurred in our presence.
Having myself had a thorough musical education, I was able to estimate, at
its true value, the importance of these particular manifestations, and was
naturally well able to judge of the possibility 0r impossibility of their
being produced by natural means, or through human agency. These sounds
may, roughly speaking, be divided into two classes : those which obviously.
proceeded from an instrument—a harmonium—in the room, whilst the hands
of all the sitters were joined round the table ; and those which were pro
duced in a room without an instrument of any kind whatever therein.
These latter were of course the most wonderful. As regards the musical
sounds produced in the room in which there was no instrument, they were
about four in number. First, there were what we called the “ fairy bells.”
These resembled the tones produced by striking musical glasses with a small
hammer. The notes thus given forth were clear, crisp, and melodious. No
deﬁnite tune was ever played, but the sounds were always harmonious, and,
'on being requested by me or any other member of the circle, the “ bells ”
would always run up or down a scale, in perfect tune. It was difﬁcult to
judge where the sound of these “fairy bells” came from, but I often
applied my ear to the top of the table, and the music seemed to be somehow
in the wood—not underneath it ; as on listening under the table, the music
would appear to be above. Next we had quite a different sound—that of a
stringed instrument more nearly akin to a Violoncello than anything else I
have ever heard. It was, however, more powerful and sonorous, and might
perhaps be produced by placing a. ’cello on the top of a drum or anything
else likely to increase the vibration. This instrument was only heard in
single notes, and was used entirely by one spirit, who employed it usually for
answering questions, in the same way that others did by raps. The third.
sound was an exact imitation of an ordinary hand-bell, which would
be rung sharply by way of indicating the presence of the particular spirit
with whom it was associated. We naturally took care to ascertain that there
was no bell of any kind in the room ; even if there had been, it would have
been a matter of some difficulty to have rung it round the walls, and even up
to the ceiling, as this particular sound proceeded indiﬁ'erently from all parts
of the room. Lastly, we had a sound that it is exceedingly difficult to offer
an adequate description of. The best idea of it I can give is to ask you to
imagine the soft tone of a clarionet gradually increasing in intensity, until
it rivalled the sound of a trumpet, then by degrees diminishing to the
original subdued note of the clarionet, until it eventually died away
The Experiences of W'. Stainion Moses. 347
in a long-drawn-out melancholy wail. This sound was ascribed to
‘ ‘
Odorifer."
This is a very inefﬁcient description of this really extraordinary sound,
but as I have in the whole course of my experience never heard anything
else at all like
it,
it
is
impossible to give to those who have not heard
it
a
more accurate idea of what
it
was like. Like the two previous sounds
I
have
described,
it
was always associated with one spirit.
It
is
a noteworthy fact that in no case did the controlling agencies pro
duce more than single notes, or at best isolated passages. This they
accounted for as owing to the peculiarly unmusical organisation of the
medium. At any rate, the production of these sounds was wonderful enough
in itself, as over and over again
I
thoroughly satisﬁed myself that there were
no materials in the room which could in any way assist in making any kind of
musical tones, and the clarionet and trumpet sound was one that
I
should
be utterly at
a
loss to imitate in any way, whatever materials might be at my
disposal. Before
I
joined the circle several other musical instruments were
frequently imitated, and all were heard with greater variety, both of manipula
tion and tone
;
but as
I
am now only giving you a brief epitome of what
actually happened under my own observation,
I
refrain from alluding to
occurrences which took place when
I
was not present.
6.
Direct writing was often given, sometimes on a sheet of paper placed
in the centre of the table and equidistant from all the sitters; at other
times one of us would place our hands on a piece of paper previously dated
and initialled, and usually a message was found written upon
it
at the con
clusion of the séance. We always placed
a
pencil upon the paper, but
sometimes we only provided a small piece of lead, the results being the same
in both cases. Usually the writing took the form of answering questions
which we had asked, but sometimes short independent communications were
given, also messages of greeting.
7.
Movements of heavy bodies such as tables and chairs were by no
means infrequent. Sometimes the table would be tilted up at
a
considerable
angle. At other times the chairs of one or more of the sitters would be pushed
more or less forcibly away from the table, until they touched the wall be
hind—or the table would move away from the sitters on one side and be pro
pelled irresistibly against those on the other, compelling them to move their
chairs in order to avoid the advance of so heavy a piece of furniture. The
dining-table in question at which we usually sat was an extremely weighty
one, and was made from solid Honduras mahogany, but at times
it
was
moved with much greater ease than the combined efforts of all the sitters
could accomplish—and these combined efforts were powerless to prevent its
moving in a certain direction,
if
the unseen force willed
it
to do so. We
frequently tested the strength of the force by trying to check the onward
movements of the table, but without success.
8. The passage of matter through matter 'was sometimes strikingly
demonstrated by the bringing from other rooms of various articles through
closed and bolted doors. Photographs, picture-frames, books, and other
objects were frequently so brought, both from rooms on the same ﬂoor and
from those above as well. How they came through the closed doors
I
2A.
348 The Ewperiénbes of W. Stainto'n Moses.
cannot say, except by some process of de-materialisation; but come they
certainly did, apparently none the worse for that process, whatever it might
have been.
9. The direct spirit voice, as opposed to the voice of a spirit speaking
through the medium while in a state of trance, we very seldom heard, and
never with any clearness or distinctness. But occasionally it was attempted,
and by listening carefully we could distinguish one or two broken sentences
which were hissed out in a sort of husky whisper. These sounds generally
seemed to be in the air above us, but they were produced with evident
difﬁculty, and there being so many other methods of communication, the
direct voice but seldom was essayed.
10. The inspirational addresses given by various spirits through Mr. S. M.
when in an entranced condition have been so thoroughly dealt with by Mrs.
Speer in her “ Records,” that I can add nothing as regards the matter
thus expounded. Touching the manner of these addresses—one or more
of which we had at almost every séance,—-I can only say that they were
delivered in a digniﬁed, temperate, clear, and convincing tone, and that
though the voice proceeded from the medium it was always immediately
apparent that the personality addressing us was not that of the medium.
The voice was different, and the ideas were not always in accordance with
those held at the time by the medium. An important fact, too, was that,
although many spirits exercised this power of control, the voice which spoke
was always diﬁ'erent—and in the case of those spirits which controlled
regularly, we got to know perfectly well which intelligence was communicating
by the tone of voice and the method of enunciation.
So far, in this enumeration of the various phenomena, I have been speak
ing generally of the manifestations which usually occurred at most of our
sittings; but, in conclusion, I will give you two particular instances, one of
direct writing and one of identity, both of which I think are interesting,
and which certainly impressed me considerably.
On one occasion we were told to cease for a time, and resume the séance
later on. I asked the communicating intelligences if they would, during the
interval, give me a sample of direct writing under test conditions. An
afﬁrmative reply having been given, I procured a piece of my own note
paper and, unknown to the other members of the circle, I dated and initialled
it, and put a private mark as well in a corner of the sheet. The others
having retired from the dining-room to the drawing-room, I placed my piece
of paper with a pencil under a table in the study, and having thoroughly
searched the room, I barred the shutters, bolted and locked the door, and
put the key in my pocket. I leant against the door, or for a change sat on
the doormat, until I re-entered the room ;— when to my great satisfaction I
found a message clearly written on the paper. As we had not been sitting in
the study, and as I can positively aver that no one entered the room after I
had left it until I myself unlocked the door, I have always considered this
particular instance of direct spirit writing a most satisfactory and conclusive
test.
The other occurrence that I consider specially worthy of mention took
place as follows :—We were sitting one night as usual, and I had in front of
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 349
me, with my hand resting upon
it,
a
piece of note-paper with a pencil close
by. Suddenly the medium—Mr. Stainton Moses,—who was sitting exactly
opposite me, exclaimed, “ There
is
a very bright column of light behind you.”
Soon afterwards he said that the column of light had developed into a spirit
form.
I
asked him
if
the face was familiar to him, and he replied in the
negative, at the same time describing the head and features. \Vhen the
séance was concluded
I
examined my sheet- of paper which my hand had
never left, and found written on
it
a
message and signature. The name was
that of a distinguished musician who died in the early part of the present
century.
I
purposely refrain from specifying him, as the use of great names
very frequently leads to results quite different from those intended. However,
now comes the most extraordinary part of the affair.
I
asked Mr. Stainton
Moses—without of course showing him the written message—whether he
thought he could recognise the spirit he saw behind my chair
if
he saw a
portrait of him. He said he thought he could, so
I
gave him several albums
containing likenesses of friends dead and alive, and also portraits of various
celebrities.
"I
remained in another part of the room, and did not watch him,
nor even knew when he was looking at the right album. On‘ coming to the
photograph of the composer in question, he at once said without hesitation,
“That
is
the face of the spirit
I
saw behind you.” Then for the ﬁrst time
I-
showed him the message and signature.
I
regarded the whole incident as
a
very fair proof of spirit-identity, and
I
think that most people would
consider the occurrence one of interest.
I
feel that this letter has grown to an unconscionable length, and
I
must
apologise for the bald manner in which many of the statements made therein
have been set forth.
I
have been considerably pressed for time, and can only
hope that the manifold crudities of language may, to
a
certain extent, be
compensated for by the fact that the whole
is
an impartial and unprejudiced
account of some of the remarkable phenomena to which
I
was
a
witness,
and the genuineness of which
I
am ready at any time to vouch for.)
(Signed) OKARL'roN T. SPEER.
November 5th, 1893.
Ashley Villa, Ventnor.
October 30th, 1893.
I
wish to state that
I
am
a
daughter of Mrs. Stanhope Speer, and was
present at many of the séances recorded in Light by my mother, and, further,
that the facts therein stated are in my recollection, and are true, and that
the phenomena actually took place.
I
-
Consumes ROSALIE SPEER.
I
must now leave the reader to judge whether,
if
these phenomena
were fraudulent, the Speer family can be acquitted of complicity in the
fraud. If we were dealing with a number of known cheats, or of quite
unknown persons, we should,
I
think, certainly pronounce the whole
group equally concerned. And here, where. the witnesses are all of
equally good repute,
I
do not myself feel able to draw any dividing line
between one and another of them.
2
A
2
350 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
It is not, indeed, clear in what way the Speer family could have
beneﬁted by such a course of deception. With regard to Mr. Moses
himself, there was undoubtedly what might be regarded as a consider
able, though a. mixed, gain. There were some annoyances and anxieties
which his note-books show him to have felt severely, but to which I
need not here refer. On the other hand, there was the glory of being
regarded by the Spiritualist body in England and America as a leader
gifted with supernormal powers.
A prospect somewhat of this type has often been enough to tempt
to fraud. Yet, having seen something of the way in which such
impostors deal with their real or manufactured evidence, and of the
way in which Mr. Moses dealt with his, it has often struck me that his
mode of producing it was very unlike theirs. It happens that I have
had repeated discussions with Mr. Moses as to his method of putting
his phenomena before the world, which, as it seemed to me, was
too scrappy and incidental to do them full justice, I had myself
seen the pile of note-books; and I urged him to print them at once
in as full a form as possible. He delayed and demurred, saying that
they were too private for publication. I then urged him at least to
reprint Spirit Identity in an exacter form, and with additional corro
borations. This he used to promise to do ; and he said that he would
ask me to help in some such task when the time came. But he still
delayed ;——delayed until the year before his death. Then he began
to print Mrs. Speer’s notes of séances, and some of his own, in Light ,
and he prepared a tract called The Identity of Spirit, which I hope to
print in a further article, and which gives the gist of Spirit Identity
in a more exact form. This type-written tract is marked “Only
partially revised.”
Now, it seems to me that Mr. Moses’ conduct throughout was ex
plicable on the view of him taken by his friends ; namely, that he was
a reserved, sensitive, somewhat proud man, who disliked being discussed
as a “medium,” or baring his inner life to the public, and who wished
only to utter just so much of his own experiences as might give him
the authority on these subjects which he felt that he had a right to
claim.
If these note-books had not, in fact, existed ,'—if he had had no
real testimony to fall back upon ;—reserve would of course have been a
cheat’s natural resource. But since the books do exist, and are full
'of what purports to be evidence, how is it that, if he had elabo
"ra'tely got up all that evidence, he was so reluctant to bring it out?
Having blacked himself all over so thoroughly for his part of Othello,
why was he so coy about removing more than his gloves '1
If, then, I attempt to sketch the inner history of these trans
actions on the hypothesis of fraud, .the best scheme that I can offer
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 351
for the use of the perspieacious critic will stand somewhat as
follows.
“ Beneath the semblance of probity,”--let him say—“ the mask of
sanity, Mr. Moses concealed an unscrupulous love of leadership and
notoriety, a morbid passion for mystifying mankind. Unable to gratify
this craving in the humdrum life of a parish clergyman, he found in the
craze of Spiritualism a congenial ﬁeld. He must at some time,—possibly
in his retirement on Mount Athos,—have quietly acquired considerable
conjuring skill. He was able, for instance, to persuade Serjeant
Cox that he moved a large dining-table and raised it partially from
the ﬂoor in full daylight, without any apparent contact. His deal
ings with phosphorus also went beyond the ordinary chemical reper
tory ;—unless, indeed, we credit the ‘spirit-lights’ to his more
scientiﬁc confederate. For he seems to have felt from an early period
the need of accomplices to assist his contrivances and spread his
renown. His thoughts naturally turned ﬁrst to the physician who
had just brought him through a dangerous illness,—a gentleman of
trained scientiﬁc capacity, but whose materialistic views had probably
blunted his sense of right and wrong, and disposed him to ﬁnd
amusement in laughing in his sleeve at mankind. On the other
hand, Mrs. Speer’s serious and religious temperament was useful in
its own way, for she would readily suggest to herself some high
moral purpose for the sake of which a lifetime of fraud might
blamelessly be embraced. Mr. Charlton Speer again, as a pure artist,
would care little about bourgeois truth and honour. The next need
was a dupe of good character to take notes and to admire. The choice
of an Oxford graduate secured adequate philosophy and grammar ; while
a position in the Civil Service might be thought likely to have fostered
a spirit of complaisant credulity. What was now needed was wide
advertisement; and the means chosen, if indirect, were none the less
subtle. Books out of print are often the most sought after; nor
perhaps could a savour of tempting rarity have been better given to
the ﬁctitious experiences than by consigning their truncated record to
a moribund magazine. Thus launched on the world, the- conspirators
divided their parts as their special gifts suggested. Mrs. Speer’s line
was of course the womanly and the religious. She corresponded with
Mr. Moses on serious and intimate matters, so as to givehim the
opportunity in his replies of alluding to his bogus phenomena as
though they formed an ever-present element in his inner life. For this
correspondence,—of which only fragments have as yet seen the light,—
a fraudulent use will doubtless be some day found. Mrs. Speer helped
also in Spirit Teachings, and perhaps contributed that semblance of
high moral tone which serves to screen the essential insidiousness of
the work as a whole. The task of the scientiﬁc husband was delimited
352 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. Siglemem
with an astute reserve. The sum and output of Dr, Speer’s twenty
years of fraud was to be embedded in a couple of penny note-books,
which he was slyly to keep to himself.
'
He could reckon pretty
conﬁdently, indeed, upon their being ultimately revealed with
triumphant pedantry by someone whom he had never set eyes on, at
an indeﬁnite date after his death. Meantime, with the characteristic
secretiveness of the impostor, Mr. Moses accumulated in his locked
drawers the documents on which his pretensions reposed. The present
thus amply enjoyed, all that remained was to plan for the development
of future fame. The gang had naturally maintained intimate friendships
with persons of known position and character. It was a stroke of
consistency to bequeath the unpublished manuscripts to gentlemen of this
type ; even with the risk that such executors might treat the records
in a spirit of masterly inaction. Some nincompoop with nothing
better to do was sure to beg for permission to study and arrange the
precious stuﬁ‘ ; and some up-todate Editor of the New Journalism was
equally certain to jump at the copy for his high-toned print.”
“If you want any more,” as the adage runs, “you may sing it
yourself.”
But the private conﬁdence which prompts a tone of irony when the
probity of trusted friends is thus under discussion, will not be, and
ought not to be, communicable in its fulness to other minds. I ask no
immunity for Mr. Moses and his group from that jealous scrutiny to
which every claim to supernormal powers should of right be subjected.
No one concerned in this story will resent the most searching ques
tions, the most extreme hypotheses. And, indeed, even for those who
may be willing to accept these records as a transcript of 'actual fact,
the period of question, of hypothesis, has yet only just begun. What
was there verily, we must go on to demand, behind this bewildering
manifestation? What power, and with what purpose, was working in
what unknown way? Verane te facies, oerus mih'i nunt'ius adfers ?
There must yet be many a pondering of the trustworthiness, the
signiﬁcance, of this incursion upon the private counsels and sequestered
commonwealth of men. And when all is done there will remain a.
mystery which neither our belief shall comprehend nor our incredulity
unravel.
Supplement ] Rel) id“). 3 6 7
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEW.
1. The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns, and Fairies. A Study in Folk
Lore and Psychical Research. The Text by Robert Kirk, M.A.,
Minister of Aberfoyle, A.D. 1691. The Comment by Andrew Lang,
M.A., A.D. 1893. London: David Nutt.
2. Comparative Psychical Research. By Andrew Lang. Contemporary Review,
September, 1893.
Mr. Robert Kirk was “a man of good family, a student, and, as his
book shows, an innocent and learned person.” He wrote of Elves and
Fairies, with full belief in their existence, and minute knowledge as to their
habits and qualities, mental and bodily, if we may use the word body of these
“ vehicles so spungious, thin, and defecat.” His style occasionally reminds
us of Sir Thomas Browne. Sir Thomas himself might have said of the
shooters of the fairy arrow-heads :
“ They are not as infallible Benjamites,
hitting at a Hair’s breadth ; nor are they wholly unvanquishable, at least in
Appearance.” The book is of curious interest, and we are grateful to Mr.
Lang and Mr. Nutt for making a rare work accessible in so pleasant a form
as that which clothes the Bibliothéque de Cambas.
Mr. Lang preﬁxes a long and interesting introduction, in which he dis
cusses, with the wealth of illustration which he has at his command, the
psychical problems suggested by the book. This introduction, and also his
article on Comparative Psychical Research, have a direct bearing on the work
of the Society for Psychical Research. Both will be read with great interest
by members of the Society; and some discussion of the moral which they
convey may not be out of place in the Society’s Proceedings.
The main theme of the two essays is that the historical branch of
Psychical Research has been neglected. Mr. Lang points out that in legends
and popular beliefs, in stories of witches, fairies, hauntings, magic, and so
forth, among peoples of all degrees of civilisation, there is a great deal
which ﬁnds a close parallel in the records of spiritualism, hypnotism,
telepathy, and other modern forms of supernormal phenomena. He argues
that, the results being similar, the causes are probably similar also. There
may be a “residuum of fact
”
behind the phenomena ; or there may be only
certain world-wide tendencies inherent in the human mind, which make men
of very different races and periods believe and invent similar ﬁctions—just as
spiders have an instinct which makes them spin similar webs. In any case,
he urges, the comparative method applied to Psychical Research should help
368 Re view. [Supplement
to discover the residuum of fact if there be one; and, whether fact be
discovered or not, it should serve to elucidate a most remarkable province of
psychology.
This branch of inquiry has not been so completely neglected as Mr.
Lang supposes.
“ As far as the writer has read the Society’s Proceedings,"
he writes, “it ‘
takes no keep,’ as Malory says, of these affairs in their
historical aspect
”
;—and again—“ The Psychical Society, as far as the writer
is aware, has not examined ofﬁcially the old accounts of the phenomena
which it investigates at present.” He may be excused, perhaps, for not being
familiar with the 1,300 pages of Phantasms of the Living ; but he will ﬁnd at
p. 172 of the ﬁrst volume of that work a most interesting and masterly ex
amination, by Edmund Gurney, of the evidence for Witchcraft and Magic.
This examination is founded, the author says,
“ on a careful search through
about two hundred and sixty books on the subject (including, I think, most
of the principal ones of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries), and a large number
of contemporary records of trials.” The conclusion at which Gurney arrives
is that “there is a total absence of respectable evidence, and an almost
total absence of any ﬁrst-hand evidence at all, for those phenomena of
magic and witchcraft which cannot be accounted for as the results of
diseased imagination, hysteria, hypnotism, and occasionally, perhaps, of
telepathy.
”
The results of this careful and laborious study do not encourage further
excursions in the same country. There is ample material for the chapter in
the “History of Human Error ”
which Mr. Lang desires. It will be a
voluminous chapter ; while the “residuum of fact” may probably be con
tained in very few paragraphs. It is with this “ residuum of fact" that
Psychical Research is mainly concerned, at any rate for the present; and
it is clear that for the establishment of facts we must rely almost entirely on
contemporary and recent evidence.
The grounds for this conclusion are two-fold. In the ﬁrst place, a careful
scrutiny and sifting of evidence, such as is now thought necessary, was almost
unknown among the older recorders. This is plain to anyone who reads Mr.
Gurney’s note on Witchcraft, and might be illustrated abundantly from the
Secret Commonwealth. 1
This destroys the value of a large part of the evidence.
In the second place, even in the case of such evidence as primd fac'ie will
satisfy the high standard of modern requirements, there is no means of
testing it in the manner which is familiar to readers of the Journal and
Proceedings of the Society. In accounts of occurrences one, two, three, or
more centuries ago it is impossible to verify dates, to establish coincidences,
to examine witnesses, and to obtain corroborative evidence. Experience of
contemporary cases shows that,:without such examination and corroboration,
reports of extraordinary occurrences, even when at ﬁrst hand, are of im
perfect evidential value.
I am inclined to think, too, that Mr. Lang has laid rather too much stress
1
For example, Kirk states, without any expression of doubt, and without think
ing it necessary to state his evidence, that “ Walter Grahame, some Time living in the
Paroch wherein now I am . . . .‘ . . shot a Hair with his eyes, having praised
its swiftness (such was the Infection of ane evill Eye).
”
He adds that this was “ un
usuall."
Supplement] Review. 369
upon the coincidences between the old and the new, the civilised and the
uncivilised. It would be a serious task to catalogue the beliefs which do
not ﬁnd a parallel in modern records; but they far outnumber those that
do. To give one example only, second sight may have its parallel in telepathy,
but the “ odd solemnity” by which the “Priviledges of the whole Mistery”
were acquired is not practised or believed to be efﬁcacious by the modems.
“ He must run a Tedder of Hair (which bound 8. Corps to the Bier) in a Helix
vabout his Midle from End to End ; then bow his Head downwards, as did
Elijah, 1. Kings 18. 42, and look back through his Legs untill he sie a Funerall
.advance till the People cross two Marches.” The attitude is more uncomfort
.a.ble than that in which Peter Ibbetson “ dreamed true ”; and, moreover, not
without risk—for “if the \Vind change Points while the Hair Tedder is ty’d
.about him, he is in Peril of his Lyfe." Darwin used to say that no experi
anent is too absurd to try, but we may doubt whether Mr. Lang would
desire his historical inquirer to make practical investigations. into this and
other similar neglected branches of art.
The whole mass of folk-lore, myth, magic, and all the beliefs of an uncritical
age are compounded of many elements. Mr. Lang’s conclusion as to the Fairy
belief is that it is “ a complex matter, from which tradition, with its memory
of earth-dwellers, is not wholly absent, while more is due to a survival of the
pre-Christian Hades, and to the belief in local spirits—the Vuis of
Llelancsia, the Nereids of ancient and modern Greece, the Lares of Rome,
the fateful Mmrze and Hathors—old imaginings of a world not yet ‘dis
peopled of its dreams.’
”
Thus, even in a belief which appears to be so far
removed from reality as this, Mr. Lang admits that there may be some element
of fact. A similar analysis may be applied to other kinds of belief. The
primary object of Psychical Research is to separate the element of fact, and
for this purpose, as I have said, only contemporary evidence can serve.
It is this possible element of fact which Mr. Lang appears to neglect
when he sums up his results by saying—“ our only conclusion is that the
psychological conditions which begat the ancient narratives produce the new
legends.” ‘Vhy, then, if the psychological conditions are unchanged, are
there many old legends which have no analogues among the new? Mr. Lang
gives no answer to the question. In fact, he does not ask
it,
because he only
collects likenesses and not differences, and therefore the differences and
omissions do not strike him. The answer,
I
think,
is
that the legends are
begotten not by psychological conditions alone, but by psychological con
ditions together with a. certain substratum of fact. The psychological con
ditions have changed, as civilisation has advanced, in the direction of more
stringent criticism of evidence. The result
is
that the legends with the
least substratum of fact have died out, while those which have a greater
substratum of fact still survive in some form. This consideration,
if
valid,
may encourage an examination of modern beliefs, with the object of ﬁnding
the underlying facts
;
but, for the reasons given above, such an examination
must be carried on by scrutiny of contemporary evidence, and by experi
ments. Comparison with the old stories will give very little result.
H. BABINGTON SMITH.
370 Edmund Gurney Library.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1893.
Additions since the list in “Proceedings,” Vol. VIII.
ENGLISH.
EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY, INTERNATIONAL Cononsss or, Second
Session, London, 1892...................................... ..London, 1893
HUDSON (Thomson Jay), The Law of Psychic Phenomena. A
Working Hypothesis for the Systematic Study of Hypnotism.
Spiritism, Mental Therapeutics, &0 ..................... ..London, 1893
(Another copy).
(Another copy).
JAMES (Professor William), Text Book of Psychology .... “London, 1892
TUCKEY, (C. Lloyd, M.D.), The Value of Hypnotism in Chronic
Alcoholism ...................................................... "London, 1892
Rmor (Th.), The Diseases of Personality. Authorised Translation,
Chicago, 1891
VINCENT (R. Harry), The Elements of Hypnotism: Its Pheno
mena, Its Dangers and Value ............................ ..London, 1893
FRENCH.
BINET (Alfred), Les Alterations de la Personnalité ......... ..Paris, 1892
JANET (Prof. Pierre), Etat Mentale des Hysteriques, les Stig
mates Mentaux. Preface de M. le Prof. Charcot ..... ..Paris, 1893
--_ L’Automatisme Psychologique ....................... ..Paris, 1889
NIZET (Henri), L’Hypnotisme. Etude Critique .......... ..Brussels, N.D. -
GERMAN.
GROSSMANN (Dr. J
.),
Die Erfolge der Suggestionstherapie
(Hypnose) bei Inﬂuenza ..................................... ..Berlin, 1892
HECKER (Dr. Ewald), Hypnose und Suggestion im Dienste der
Heilkunde ................................................... ..W1'esbaole'n, 1893
KIESEWETTER (Carl), Franz Anton Mesmer’s Leben und Lehre.
Nebst einer Vorgeshichte des Mesmerismus, Hypnotismus,
und Somnambulismus ........................................ “Leipzig, 1893
REICHEL (Willy), Der Magnetismus und seine Phiinomene,Berli-n, 1892
RELLs (Edmund W.), Psychologische Skizzen .............. ..Leipzig, 1893
HUMMER (Dr. Georg), Erfolge des therapeutischen Hypnotismus
in der Landpraxis. Mit einem Vorworte von Prof. Dr. Aug.
Forel ........................................................... “Manchu, 1891
ZEITSCHRIFT PUP. HYPNOTISMUS, Suggestionstherapie, Sugges
tionslehre und verwandte psychologische Forschungen.
Redigirt von Dr. J. Grossmann ......................... ..Berlin, 1892-3
A full Catalogue
of
the books in the Edmund Gurney Library was printed
at the end
of
Vol. V.
of
the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues were
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., and VIII. Separate copies of these
Catalogues are still on hand, and can be obtained from the Secretary.
AMERICA'S; MOST
COMPREHENSIVE common
I MAGIC ARTS
I"
\f "' '
"
lwll
~I|\l|.
.31.“.
Last}:
i.
v
..
v
IllllglllalggllliIlll666m§l5$mii|£8mmnInn
. w ' . .w
. , ’ ‘ 7
it:
r
..
"
I
I“!!! *KF,
|
_'
-‘
r.
1‘—
.
i
rd,
"
'
'
a
my
m. 41.5?
f
7;
U
.‘
\
-. .
.
‘
'
'
‘i
. , 114i"
.
.‘WU‘ ~
1
4
’
‘
V" ,’;'
a
"
~ ‘
.
|"
23)
'\’
‘
_
‘i
(‘-
'
‘
~
,
;
‘
,
-
1
a"
1
.
v
L-qi.
'
"
Q;
I
I
‘ \gi'
.
§
- -. -<v
’Ii
.'
:
l
'
a,
Ir;
kw _ _
1,
‘
,b
~
x
III?
'
.-
'
113‘
~"
:
I
1'
5‘; .1
.21
“11 Mai
I
llllYll|\I\|I|\\lIINIIIINIIINHIINIHllll
a:
F
15g"
8
j.
a:
:1
~.
\nmmﬁmmmmmn
2:222;
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
walt
158.3 M99e
Myers, Frederic William Henry, 1843-1901
The experiences of Rev. W. Stainton-Mose
Illl
lllll
lli
l
Illlil
Illiﬂillli
'
19
1
00 927 140
i
M
lili
1
ii
ii.
i
‘—
Q)
Q-l
C
Q)
0
mi;—
(0
G)
O
0
<
i
i
Mimi
i
M
innesota
Libra
