{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__mingle___spiritual_significance_of_the_body.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritual Significance Of The Body","mylang":"de"}
•
SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE
OF THE BODY
IDA MINGLE
This book, devoted to relating the Body to the
underlying Principles and Laws, is a physical
counterpart of the Book, "Science of Love With
Key to Immortality," by the author. The under-
standing of ·the physical <;iS it now is, is the
capacity to invite illumination pertaining to the
body that is to be, in exact conformity to scien-
tific unfoldment. The transposing of the body
from the material to the premise of the physical
has been working out the last century, though
the physical must be seen as the formed spirit-
ual. The spiritual and the physica'l, united as
one in Mind, make up the New Heaven and the
new Earth in which righteousness may dwell.
The formation of the New Heaven and the n~w
Earth, through spiritual understanding, is the
automatic dissolution of the first heaven and the
first earth. Man, when completed, is the Word
made flesh; the substantiality and reality of spir-
itual ideas that have issued from the inner Prin-
ciples and Laws. This is the spiritual expression
of man that succeeds the natural, the evidence
of God revealed as Immortality.
•
SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE
OF THE BODY
By IDA MINGLE
Author of "Science of Love With Key to Immortality,"
"Miscellaneous Lessons," "Healing and Prayer,"
and many booklets containing Prin-
ciples of Life and Being
FIRST EDITION
1936
SCHOOL OF LIVEABLE CHRISTIANITY
MISS ALMA BURCH
18607 D a le
DETROIT 19, MICHIGAN
g
Dedicated to all who seek the physical
outworking of the Principles of Truth; who
are willing to present the bodies, as living
sacrifices, thereby fulfilling their spiritual
services, by which Christ can fashion and
form the new man, partaking of the nature
of the spiritual.
"Blessed are they that wash their robes,
that they may have the right to come to the
tree of life, and may enter in by the gates
into the city."
"Behold, the tabernacle of God is with
men, and he shall dwell with them, and they
shall be his peoples, and God himself shall
be with them, and be their God."
CONTENTS
PAGE
The Body...... . ....... ... ...... . ..... . . . . . . . . . .. 11
Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind ... . . . . . . . . . 21
Eyes: Perception and Redemption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination. . . . . . . . . . 52
Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment.... . ... . . 65
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Hair and Beauty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Face and Intelligence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Teeth: Analysis and Diet. . . . . ................ . . .. 10{)
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech ... . . .. . ..... . . . ... .. 114
Shoulders : Responsibility and Support. ........ . ... 125
Arms· and Hands: Giving and Receiving. . . . . . . . . . . 136
Ribs: Accident and Protection . . . . . .... .. ... .. . .. . . 147
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life. . . . . 159
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
Heart: Blood and Love. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Solar Plexus: Soul and Order .... . .. . . . . . . .. .'. . . . . 193
Stomach: Substantiality and Impersonality ... ... . . . 199
Liver: Service and Balance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Spleen: Birth, Life, Death . . .. .... . . .... . .. . .... ... 219
Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimina tion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227
Appendix and Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237
PAGE
Kidneys : Equality, Reciprocity, and Confidence . .... 245
Generative Organs : Reproduction and
Consummation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 252
Hips: Determination and Self-Preservation . . ... . . . 268
Knees: Humility and Devotion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 276
Lower Limbs and Feet: Willing and Doing . . ....... 282
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Immunity . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . 290
Bones : Substance and Reality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Muscles: Exercise and Will. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity . .. . . . . . . .. 320
Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals . . . .. ... . .... ... 329
Glands: Thyroid, Para-Thyroid, Thymus, Pancreas . 339
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian .. . . ... 346
FOREWORD
T
HE many conclusions contained in this book are
the physical results of the operation in conscious-
ness of spiritual Principles and Laws. These are ·
verified in the scriptures, many physical expressions being
reduced to qualities of consciousness. God is spoken of
as having hands and feet, yet God is Spirit, or Principles
of Being. Principles applied to consciousness become
Qualities of Being, these objectifying as form. Form is
the physical identification of the organism of conscious-
ness.
This book, "SPIRITUAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
BODY," is not written in the thought of mortal mind,
but is the physical outworking of applied Principles of
Being. It is the physical correspondent of the Book,
"Science of Love With Key to Immortality," published in
Nineteen Hundred Twenty-six, by the author. This book
is the formative of which "Science of Love With Key to
Immortality," is the creative, of the unfolding Principles
of Being.
It is the physical application of Principles of Truth
that gives rise to identification of body, in essence of form.
The establishment of the inner body makes known the
factors of the outer body, even as the realizations of Truth
within the consciousness cause the opposite untruths to
be known. Through translating the parts of the body,
formed in mortality, into their spiritual equivalents, the
formation of the physical realities of the spiritual quali-
ties can be identified.
The process of translating the mortal body into its
spiritual equivalents, by which the reality of the physical
body, that is one with the spirit or heavens of conscious-
ness, is formed, follows along the line of translating all
formed things into the forces that formed them; thus
[7]
8 Foreword
reducing the outer form to nothingness that the reality
of form and being may manifest. The capacity to under-
stand the symbolical body, formed in mortality, is
attended with the capacity to form the physical body, the
new earth, that is one with the new heavens or spirit.
However, the formation of the Qualities of Spirit is
attended with a living application of the Principles
involved, 'this causing the physical to be formed. The
physical is the formed counterpart of the spiritual, and
is not the symbolical form that has been fashioned in the
law of sin and death in mortal evolution.
The body that now is gives rise to the body that is to be,
the reality of body forming as the unreality is unformed.
The unreality is unformed through translating it to the
underlying spiritual forces and qualities, or through
proving its unrelation to spiritual laws. This is automat-
ically attended with spiritual understanding by which
the reality of being is formed; though this implies the
liveable application of Principles of Truth, which alone
has _
power to change the physical domain.
The individual outworking of the Principles of Truth
ultimates in their universal application, this changing
the body of the individual, of the race, and of the planet
through one action of Divine Laws. This transformation
has been going on for thirteen years, introducing such
changes as to promote the formation of the new earth,
or body, that is one with the new heavens, or spirit. The
outworking of the body of consciousness, in conformity
with Divine Laws, is the "greater works" attending a
fuller activity of these Laws at the close of mortality.
Now is the time to carry forward the gained Qualities
and Principles of Truth, that they may be formed in man,
by which the new creature, new in spirit and body, is
revealed. Specific attention to the body is promoted by
the study of this book, this being attended with capacity
to witness the physical outworking of the Word, when
Truth is identified. The Word made flesh is the Body of
the Word, the Principles and Qualities of Being formed
Foreword 9
in the consciousness, and manifested on the bodily plane
as man, governed in righteousness and Truth. Man, when
formed, is the united spirit and body, the habitation of
God and Christ, and the means by which the Qualities of
Being unfolded within are projected as Life and Being.
This projection leads to the establishment of righteous
government, the universal body of the race, conformed
to Divine Laws.
THE BODY
T
HE Body is the organism of consciousness, the
formed expression of being. It is made up of
three departments, viz., Head, Chest, Abdomen
and Limbs. Spiritually, these conform to Spirit, Soul,
and Body, respectively, the trinity of Creation progress-
ing in form unto the attainment of Mind. Mind is con-
scious consciousness, and is gained through overcoming
the forces developed on the material plane of existence
by µieans of the material body. These forces are aspects
of aspirations, feelings, thoughts, and motives. The con-
formity of the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body -to
the Divine Laws is the Love of the Lord gained, by which
the love of the neighbor is promoted. The love of the
neighbor is perfect expression of Body, universally.
Body is both individual and universal in expression.
Individually, it pertains to the self-consciousness, while
universally, it pertains to the group, the race. The per-
fect expression of the universal body is government, while
the perfect expression of the individual body is Church.
"Know ye not that ye are a temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man destroyeth
the temple of God, him shall God destroy: for the temple
of God is holy, and such are ye." [American Revised
Edition.] The Church is the temple, the organism of con-
sciousness, established in righteous relation to the inner
governing Laws. Government is the State of being, the
outer group governed by the inner Laws. Government
is first set up individually, an individual governed in the
Laws of God becoming a Throne of Power from which
the influences of these Laws are projected into the entire
race to establish righteous government for all.
Intelligence is identified as Mind. The Divine Intelli-
gence is the Father Principle of Being. The faculties of
consciousness are unfolded through the Father Principle
of Being, this identifying consciousness. CoQ.sciousness is
[ 11]
12 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Soul, the feminine mate of the Spirit. Mind is the outer
aspect of Spirit, which coordinated with the Soul, pro-
duces Body. Body is the form of consciousness, the iden-
tification of the Qualities of Being unfolded in processes
of living; though this is the spiritual body when identified.
Body is more than organs, muscles, blood, and nerves.
It is the flesh of the Word when established in its re-
deemed nature, the organism to function united Wisdom
and Love, or the united Father-Mother Principle of Being
(God), that brings forth the Son-Daughter of being.
The Head typifies Intelligence identified. Intelligence
climaxed is Wisdom. The brain, the particular organism
of the head, is the means by which intelligence is dissemi-
nated. The perfected brain is a type of Heaven, though
the physical elements that make up its constituents are the
earth that is one with heaven; or heaven, the spirit, and
earth, the form, are united as one in Divine Mind, there-
fore their unity attained in consciousness is the means by
which Divine Mind disseminates its Intelligence as Truth.
The brain is the governing intelligence of the entire body,
though it is mind that gives impetus to the intelligence of
the brain. The functioning of the brain does not cease
because members of the body are destroyed, or cut off;
but the spirit of the functioning is promoted rather than
the physical activity.
The Chest typifies the Soul, which is the identification
of the feeling nature. The Soul is two-fold in function,
that which promotes the animal nature of man and that
which promotes the spiritual nature. The "living soul"
that corresponds to the nature of the "first Adam" is self-
consciousness gained. The gain of self-consciousness is
one with the mastery of the forces developed in mortality,
hence, the living soul is the human characteristic rather
than the animal. The animal soul is made up of feelings
that actuate the ego without governing intelligence; while
the human soul is consciousness governed by intelligence
and in control of the feeling nature.
The Chest is primarily centered to the coordinated
energies of the vital organs, the heart and lungs. How-
The Body 13
ever, the throat, the connecting link of the head and chest,
pertains to the function of speech, therefore typifies the
projection of intelligence from the Mind to the Soul. The
projection of intelligence is the movement of feeling, the
aggregated feelings making up Soul. Feelings controlled
by intelligence of a spiritual nature aggregate as Love.
Love is the Principle of Being by which consciousness is
embodied or formed. Love gained fulfils the law of mor-
tality, superseding the forces of the organism with a power
that ultimates in spiritual birth and the revelation of a
new body, the spiritual body.
The spiritual body is snow-white in appearance, though
having the complexion of a child. This is the body that
is full of Light, because all forces developed in darkness
or mortality have been subjected to the Intelligence of
Mind, and the love of the flesh has been brought under
the control of the Spirit. The snow-white body, white
like a dead man, is the divine-human identification of
consciousness, freed from all sense of animality. It is
superseded by the Body of Light, the organism of the
Spirit on the invisible plane, but this body is the Eye, the
organism of the Word by which the Creative Laws carry
forward their universal Plan. Both of these bodies were
visible to the author in Nineteen Hundred Twenty-two,
as well as the body of gold. The body of gold is the
figure of substantiality of being present in the race, and
with which the Laws of God work to transmute racial
consciousness to a higher state.
The Body, in its reality, is sown as a seed, together with
the Spirit, into the race that the temples of God may be
reared. These are the temples, not built with hands, but
eternal in the Plan of God. These temples are states of
consciousness, conformed in the four departments of
being, viz., spirit, soul, mind, and body, to the Laws of
God (Lord). These are the foundation stones of the New
Order in the Ages, the epitome of the Universal Body to
be established as Righteous Government. The witness-
ing of the outworking Laws of God since Nineteen Hun-
dred Twenty-two embraces the tearing down of mortality
14 Spiritual Significance of the Body
and its material forces, as well as the projection of the
Qualities of Being for their formation.
The Limbs are two-fold in character, the Upper and
the Lower. The upper limbs represent forces of Love,
the lower limbs forces of Will. In other words, the upper
limbs are the spirit, while the lower limbs are the form
of expression, but not of the material body. Will is the
formative power of Love, the means by which bodily
organism is identified. It is the will to be mortal that
promotes mortality; even as it is the will to be spiritual
that makes for spirituality. Will is one with Love, its
inner counterpart, one always being willing to do and be
what one loves to do and be.
The Limbs represent activity, and activity pertains to
formation. Formation of the unfolding qualities of
Wisdom (Head) and Love (Chest) gives rise to body.
Body is the product of advancement, as to its qualities,
but as to its form, it is co-eternal with Spirit. Therefore,
Man has always been formed as he now is, though qualities
of consciousness were on lower planes of advancement
in the past. The limbs represent the motive power of
living, the capacity to execute what is thought. Being one
with the Will, the limbs represent the will to be, typified
by the upper, and the will of being, typified by the lower.
The will of being forms the qualities that one wills to be,
giving rise to bodily form in qualities of consciousness
that are changing, according to the developed intelligence
and feeling.
The Head is the seat of the mental body, the chest the
seat of the emotional body, and the abdomen and limbs
the seat of the material body, when related to the natural
man. When the mentality is Truth, and the emotion is
Love, and the will is the power to bring forth the result
of their union, Divine Will is identified and one prepares
for spiritual birth. When self-will is subjected to the
Divine Will one walks after the manner of righteousness,
not after the love and thought of the flesh. The union of
Wisdom (Head) and Love (Chest) was a conscious
The Body 15
experience in the life of the author, and was one of the
primal steps of mystical advancement. It was as though
the intelligence of Mind became fastened in the chest and
she could not withdraw her eyes. This continued for ten
hours, producing a marked change in her physical organ-
ism, so much so that people not knowing of the experience
could see an aura about the head, and note the spiritual-
ized result in the face. However, the author has had so
many activities of the Spirit, not only within the organism
but objectified in the without to her visible eyes, that it
would require a distinct book to enumerate them all. But
she mentions this to give verification of the actuality of
ideas uttered herein, and to affirm to those needing it the
reality of the truths pertaining to the body.
Body, as it functions on the visible plane, is to the con-
sciousness what a vase is to the flowers that are placed
in it. It is a container for the unfolding qualities of con-
sciousness. When consciousness is completed, male and
female in qualities of being, the body that is to be is in
process of formation, for it consists of the substance-
essence gained in realizations of spiritual good and Truth.
The permanent revelation of the real body awaits the
overthrow of mortality. It has been revealed in snow-
white qualities, as well as in the vehicle of Light, but
these could not remain and at the same time be sown as
Seed toward the resurrection of the children of God, who
make up the first-fruit of God and Christ. Neither could
embodied consciousness remain at the first coming of
Christ, but needed to go away to prepare heavenly habi-
tations for those later to partake of the flesh and blood
of the Spirit, and enter into eternal life. ·
When consciousness is completed, male and female as
one, it has power over the body and can ascend into the
fourth dimensional plane, projecting itself through space
without limitation. The automobile and the airplane,
brought forth on the plane of the racial body the last
half-century, are symbolical objectifications of controlled
will and understanding. They indicate the advancement
of man and his capacity to control his own organism, so
16 Spiritual Significance of the Body
as to master both time and space. Inventive genius and
other forms of scientific expression on the natural plane
reflect what is being worked out through the operation of
scientific spiritual laws, the race benefiting physically by
what is spiritually promoted and projected toward the
plane of science. The race, not being spiritual, is
advanced by means of material things, until, reaching a
limit of material progression, it is forced to seek after
the Spirit of advancement. The fourth dimensional plane
of expression that succeeds the third dimensional of mor-
tality reveals Man, controlled in will and mind, so as to
be unimpeded in his expressions on the mental or the
physical planes.
It is only when consciousness is intermingled with the
elements of the mortal body that the body is an encum-
brance. This encumbrance is not realized until spiritual
advancement permits the ego to discern the Laws govern-
ing the real being to be attained, this also giving insight
into the limitations that have characterized mortal pro-
gression. When the elements of mortality are mastered,
one is the embodied Spirit, but this body is without form
in this present world; though present in substance-essence
gained in realizations of qualities of Life and Being, when
Truth is known. The outer body is used as a means by .
which the inner organism of consciousness expresses, but
it offers no limitations to the spiritual ma~, except those
offered by mortality at all times to the unfolding spiritual
being. Attaining to Truth, and functioning in the outer
body, enables the ego so positioned to project the qualities
attained into the race, by which those able to receive them
are made to partake of a like advancement.
It is the spiritual body that has fourth dimensional
powers, though when it is formed, it is limitless and can
transport consciousness into higher planes. This is an
occurrence in life, in conscious consciousness, and not a
matter of dying, or going into a trance; for the gaining of
conscious consciousness is possible only through putting
off the mind and love of the flesh, and their limitations.
Body is to conscious consciousness what the husk is to
Tlie Body 17
the ear of corn, a covering in which the unfolding ego is
sheltered from the forces of the world. The "mist of
matter" that hides the reality of being is the necessary
covering that makes for contact with the world of mor-
tality; though until one has separated the consciousness
from this covering, one is as the "mist of matter," and
lost in the forces of materiality.
Body is the formed essences of qualities of Spirit real-
ized, when actually formed in reality. It is formed as
ideas of Truth are realized, though the mastering of the
untruth is the means by which the material organism of
body is unformed and reduced to nothingness. The noth-
ingness of mortality is gained when the somethingness of
the Spirit is attained, the decreasing of the I and the in-
creasing of the I Am giving rise to the new creature. The
new creature is embodied in the spiritual form of being,
though until the "mist of matter" that obscures is re-
moved in the Laws of God, one is as mortal to the vision
of mortals. The author has seen this "mist of matter"
come up from the feet, typifying the earth, and cover the
body of white as though it had no being. This is the mist
referred to in Gen. 2: 6.
Body is the aggregated form of Principles, the outline
of shape giving tangibility to the invisible forces. The
organs of the body are reducible to the energies and forces
that produced them; but because the body ceases to be,
as to mortal form, does not mean that the consciousness
that formed it ceases to be. However, until consciousness
is one with the Laws of Being it is not eternal being, there-
fore is changeable in embodied forms. Consciousness re-
embodies by means of birth and disembodies by means
of death, the two factors by which it is promoted from
plane to plane of advancement. When the love of the
flesh that makes for reproduction of mortals is overcome
with the Love of God, one ceases to re-embody, and begins
the unfoldment by which the flesh of the Word is em-
bodied as spiritual being.
The Body is the physical of the spiritual, when actually
identified, and not the material. The material is the forces
18 Spiritual Significance of the Body
generated in obscuration of the knowledge and love of
God, hence partakes of the forces of chaos and darkness.
This is the body that is reduced to nothingness by means
of death of mortals. But the living death, which is a
dying to the forces that make for mortality, in a living
way, is that which reduces the elements of the body to the
primal dust from which man was taken; and which
·destroys the curse of the necessity of being born and
dying, as means of progression. Dust is that primal sub-
stance-essence that is gained in realizations of Truth _in
the presence of untruth. This is the actualizing of body-
essence that supersedes mental contemplation of spiritual
ideas.
The Head represents the Father pole of consciousness,
the Chest the Mother, and the Limbs, the offspring of both,
the Son and Daughter. The abdomen is the objectification
of the natural man, and corresponds to chaos, controlled
to cosmos, by which mortal man is produced. The upper
limbs represent the Daughter, the lower limbs the Son.
These four-square factors, coordinated as one, is con-
sciousness, though it is Wisdom, typed by the head, and
Love, typed by the chest and heart, that unite with Will,
typed by the limbs, that make for the identification of
Life and being, or conscious consciousness. The abode
of the Spirit, in central function, is in the head, that of the
Soul is in the chest, and that of the Body is in the will
of man. The soul rests in the bosom, representing the
love forces of consciousness. Heaven as a throne of con-
sciousness is in the top head, and this is the abode of the
Spirit. The body, having its abode in the will of man, is
dependent upon conscious conformity with the Divine
Laws for its formation. Man may will to do the Divine
Will or will not to do it. According to his will, he will
receive and be. The revelation of the real body awaits the
conformity of the will of man to the Will of God.
It is written for the benefit of those who do not know
what the Will of God for man is, "I beseech you therefore,
brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a.
living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spir-
The Body 19
itual service. And be not fashioned according to this world:
but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that
ye may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect
will of God." Romans 12:1-2, American Revised Edition.
A "living sacrifice" is not a dead one. Since mortals are
dead in trespasses and sins, not being conformed to the
Divine Love and Laws, it follows they must become alive
as mortals, attaining the "living soul," before they can
present the bodies as living sacrifices, that they may know
what is the acceptable will of God. This knowing comes
when consciousness ceases to desire to fashion the mortal
body after the law of sexual love, establishing will to be
spiritual that permits the Will of God to make itself
known.
There are natural laws governing the mortal body that
one is commanded to obey. There are spiritual laws gov-
erning the consciousness of man that one is expected to
consider, thus putting on the embodiment of the Word
made flesh. This is the body that will know no sin, sick-
ness, sorrow, or death, though it can only come into its
inheritance through the universal operation of the Love
of God. One, embodying the Word of God, is drawn into
the Throne of God, and is no longer made to sojourn in
limitation. Once one has gained the consciousness of
Truth, and served the universal cause of God, by which
the Qualities attained are projected to the race for its
attainment, one is freed from the necessity of further
progressing in limitation and material bondage.
The attainment of consciousness of Truth is Christ, the
goal set from the foundation of the world, and, when
gained, releases one from the world; though not without
first giving oneself for the life of the race, that the Plan
of God for all men may be promoted. This giving is the
projection of the united Spirit and Body, in the second
coming of Christ, by which a new demand is made upon
the race; that of conforming the body, individually and
universally, to the Plan of Divine Laws so that righteous-
ness may express. The Will of God will be done in the
earth or physical domain as it is divinely intended, when
20 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the time has come for the fulfilment of the Divine Laws.
Love is the fulfilling of mortality, Love identified in Divine
Quality being the Mother-God Principle that gives birth to
man in spiritual body.
MEDITATION
I am the embodiment of the Qualities of Being, the
Word made flesh.
Spirit, Soul, and Body are united as one, establishing
the Mind of the Spirit.
Head and Heart, coordinated as Wisdom and Love,
father-mothers the entire consciousness, establishing
reality of being.
BRAIN: UNIVERSAL INTELLIGENCE AND
MIND
T
HE Brain is the connecting link between man and
God. It is the seat of intelligence, the distinguish-
ing mark between man and beast. The brain is the
means by which intelligence registers, though it is also
the fruit of all advancement. It is the beginning and the
end, that by which one has consciousness of Mind, as well
as that by which Mind becomes conscious.
The Brain is a replica of heaven, as to essences, and of
earth, as to form, when it is perfected. Its orderly co-
ordination and functioning are the means by which Prin-
ciples of Being unfold, and universal Intelligence is dis-
seminated. The coordination of the brain permits Prin-
ciples and Laws of Being to unfold. The brain is to the
Principles what the soil is to the seed. Yet, the brain is
the fruit of the seeds of intelligence, the beginning of the
kingdom of heaven in man, when coordinated to spiritual
Principles.
The Brain is perfected when it is unfolded in spiritual
intelligence, and the Truth is gained. This is to.say, when
its essences and energies partake of the nature of the
Spirit of Man, the brain will function the Principles of
Being, by which the Will of God is set up in consciousness
to produce the real state of being or Man. The Spirit of
Man is Christ. Christ is also the Spirit of God. The Spirit
of Man, as Christ, is the Son of Man, while the Spirit of
God, as Christ, is the Son of God. The union of the Son of
Man and the Son of God is Christ Consciousness, the
means by which the Universal Intelligence issuing from
God is disseminated into the consciousness of the race for
its further progression. The introduction of the Universal
Intelligence is called the "coming of Christ."
The unity of Man with God, through Christ, is the pos-
sibility of God to manifest Man, begotten in the image and
[ 21]
22 Spiritual Significance of the Body
likeness of God. This Man is male and female in one
form of being. This is the God-Man, the divine type. The
divine type is the fruit of evolution and involution. That
is to say, Man is the product of the natural and of the
spiritual forces of progression, made one in Truth. Man,
when revealed, is the reality of being, the fulfilment of the
Principles of Being. Man is symbolically formed as brain,
though the impregnation of the brain with spiritual intel-
ligences is preparatory toward the establishment of per-
fected brain, by which the Wiil of God can set up its ruler-
ship and bring forth the reality of being, as perfected man.
The Brain is composed of three parts, the cerebrum, the
cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata. In their heavenly
aspects, the cerebrum, the front brain, relates to the spirit,
the cerebellum, the back brain, to the soul. The medulla
oblongata is the connecting link with the spinal column
and gives rise to will, the body principle. These three
departments of the brain correspond to the celestial, spir-
itual, and natural degrees of the Word, respectively. The
brain, in its three departments, represents the executive,
judicial, and legislative factors of government, when ap-
plied to individual consciousness. Through these three
offices, the brain exercises a control over all the forces of
the organism.
The three parts of the brain are separated by three
membranes, the inner or the pia mater, the middle or the
arachnoid, the outer or the dura mater. Mater means
mother. The two poles of the mother quality, both the
inner and the outer, signify the social system that will be
set up when the without is as the within. When the Great
Mother is identified as the ruling power of consciousness,
the brains of men and of women will function harmoni-
ously, and all shall know the Principle of Love (Mother)
governing their being, and will live in harmony and peace.
The Brain, in distinction, is the father pole of conscious-
ness, though containing within its realm the potencies of
the mother. The potencies are emanated as energies that
become active, emotionally as soul, and physically as will.
The primal identity of these potencies, as animal soul and
Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind 23
self-will, characterizes the material nature of man, subject
to the laws of evolution. The tendency to measure the size
of the brain, as an index to the advancing intelligence of
the race, indicates the important relation the brain bears
to knowledges and feelings.
When the processes of evolution are superseded by in-
volution, it does not require centuries of progression to en-
large the brain and the size of the skull. When the qualities
of mind partake of the Spirit, the brain, the primal seat of
form, is changed, the skull undergoing an enlargement to
contain the transformed brain. The author has experi-
enced this, it especially relating to the superseding of the
material forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body with govern-
ing spiritual qualities. The skull bones were expanded, like
hands pushing on both sides of the head, the activities
especially relating to the cerebellum and the medulla
oblongata, though affecting the cerebrum in a certain way.
This proves that it is the spiritual intelligence that trans-
forms the body and not ages of material evolution. It
proves the supremacy of the Divine Laws over the laws
of evolution.
The Brain is the functional point of Mind. This is to say,
that Mind centralizes to the brain, and from the brain has
its universal expression. This universal expression is first
to all the members of the individual body, they constitut-
ing the earth of which the brain is the heavens. When
brain is perfected, there will exist among people the same
mental coordination as exists in the individual body, by
means of the governing brain. The race, as a mass, will
be the earth, with the Universal Mind identifying by means
of coordinated brains, acting as governing authority over
all the members of the race. This will be the condition
when the Will of God is done in the earth (body) as it is
in heaven (spirit).
Mind is universal in character, but it is not actually
identified until it partakes of the nature of the Spirit.
The Mind of the Spirit is Life and Truth. The mind of the
flesh is death. The mind of the flesh functions by means
of unredeemed brain; that is, intelligences not conformed
24 Spiritual Significance of the Body
to the Principles of Being. The mind of the flesh also cor-
responds to the love of the flesh, and is overcome through
dying to fleshly love and thought. People desire to be
relieved of death, but how many can take dominion over
the mind of the flesh through unfolding the intelligences
of the Spirit? Faith must be coupled with works that the
consciousness may be prepared for the action of the
Divine Laws (Father), that makes the Principles of Being
(Mother) living flesh that is not subject to the law of sin
and death.
The ideas of mind become on the plane of the physical
the seeds of reproduction. These seeds propagate the race.
The elements of the bodies of the race are of no higher
nature than the development of the brains. The reproduc-
tive seeds contain the mental energies and emotional
potencies. These seeds become the cells of the body. The
body becomes like the generated energies of mentality,
functioned by means of brain. A regenerated brain, func-
tioning spiritual energies, is projecting into the physical
organism seed-qualities that are spiritual in their ten-
dencies. These have the power, when connected with the
Spirit of God, or Christ, to beget the spiritual state of
man. This man is not born through sexual generation,
but through the Laws of Regeneration.
There is a universal operation of Principles of Being,
aggregated in a perfected brain, that is, one coordinated in
function in male-female qualities. Such a coordinated
consciousness is Christ in Spirit and Body, by which con-
trol over all forces of progression, both heaven (spiritual)
and earth (physical) is set into operation. This universal
operation provides for the dissemination of the Christ-
Qualities, these becoming the Divine Seeds, in which are
the bodies to be, by which those partaking of their spirit
are spiritually born, and revealed as the first-fruits of God
and Christ, at the end of mortality. Through partaking
of the spirit of the Divine Seeds (Intelligence of Truth),
consciousness is subjected in will (body) to their opera-
tion, this permitting the forms of the Seeds to be mani-
fested as the "members of the Body of Christ." These
Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind 25
members are the offspring of the Laws of Regeneration,
by which Divine Wisdom and Love have functioned as
united spirit and body.
The energies of mental forces become seeds in the soul
element of the nature. This soul element is the seminal
water, the reproductive quality of being. The seminal
water is carried along in the blood stream and is the life-
spirit of the flesh. The mental energies become words on
the plane of mind, but on the plane of soul they become
seeds. The seeds become corpuscles in the blood stream,
and when formed are the cells of the organism. The
nature of the body, as to the elements of the flesh, is ·
always like the developed love and intelligence of the ego.
Regenerated love and intelligence beget the flesh of the
Word, which is the nature of the spiritual states of being.
The transformation of the ego takes place first in mind.
Through the mental energies becoming converted into cel-
lular forces that relate to the blood stream, the body is
made to partake of the nature of the unfolding intelli-
gence. Hence, the scriptural declaration, "Be ye trans-
formed (changed in form) by the renewing of the mind,"
hides a physical fact. Also, the scriptural injunction that
"The mind of the flesh is death," can be seen to relate to
the body, the death of the flesh being promoted through
promoting ideas and feelings that do not partake of the
nature of Divine Intelligence and Love. The physical is
the formed energies of intelligence, that forming them-
selves, promote their own energy rate of emanation, called
feeling. This feeling and intelligence, identified on the
plane of form, become physical consciousness, with body
as the vehicle of its expression.
The energies of the body can be of no different nature
than the dominating intelligence and love that formed it.
Parents give character to the elements of the bodies of
their offspring in keeping with their unfolded love and
intelligence. However, the ego re-embodying invites his
or her own under exact laws, and, where its consciousness
dominates that of the parents, it controls in higher ways
the formation of its own form on the natural plane. This
26 Spiritual Significance of the Body
especially operates in the selection of parents, for all
people are reducible to forces of consciousness through
death, this positioning their relation on the unformed and
formed plane; and controlling the environment in which
they are born. This is a subconscious procedure, governed
by the developed intelligence and love of the ego to be re-
embodied, in coordination with the sexual forces that
conceive its spirit, by which is the form of the natural
man.
A renewed and regenerated brain permits mental en-
ergies of a higher nature to function; though the regen-
erated brain is the result of the persistency of the ego to
overcome and master the enticements of the mortal na-
ture. Brain and mind react to each other like the hen and
the egg: it is not possible to say which is first or which one
governs. They are two poles as one reacting to each other.
The Mind, as the unformed spirit-energies, and the brain,
the formation of these energies, constitute the foundation
by which consciousness of Being is identified. This con-
sciousness is Man. When Man is revealed he will be per-
fected in Mind and Brain, in Heaven and in Earth, or in
Spirit and in Body.
The perfected Brain is the organism by which Mind
functions to produce Man in united intelligence and love,
in which righteousness can dwell. The Mind of the Spirit
is the only Mind that promotes the realities of being. The
primal transformation, taking place because of regen-
erated intelligence and love, is in the brain. A trans-
formed brain means a transformed body. A transformed
brain means transformed energies of intelligence and
love. These energies partake of the Divine Will, and not
of the will of the flesh, when the knowledges and feelings
developed on the sense plane have been subjected to spir-
itual Understanding and Will.
The mental progression results in united Understanding
and Will, when conscientiously pursued with the purpose
of perfecting the consciousness. The spiritual unfoldment
that follows the union of Understanding and Will identi-
fies Wisdom and Love, as well as forms Substance and
Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind 27
Life. These six Qualities of Being identified open con-
sciousness to Truth because brain has been coordinated,
and the Mind of the Spirit is permitted to function. Truth
is known through the action of the Spirit in perfected
brain, and is not thought into expression. Truth is the
revelation of Principles of Being, and is made known be-
cause the Principles have been set into action through
united Wisdom and Love.
When the knowledges and feelings of the sense con-
sciousness have been regenerated, and their forces sub-
jected to conscious Mind, seed-energies of a higher nature
are produced in the blood stream, this transforming the
energies of the body. When the sexual energies are sub-
jected to the Spirit of Life (Christ) within the conscious-
ness, the body is brought under the control of the mind,
this permitting the Mind of the Spirit to identify. When
the forces of mentality partake of the Mind of the Spirit,
the emanated energies of Love form the incorruptible
seed. The incorruptible seed, functioned by means of the
water of life in the blood stream begets the spiritual state
of being. The scriptural injunction, "Let Christ be formed
in you," is not impossible, when brain and mind conform
to the Principles of Being, and the Mind of the Spirit is in
control.
Truth is the result of united Wisdom and Love. United
Wisdom and Love are the result of united intelligence and
feeling, conformed to the Divine Will. The death of the
will of the flesh, in which is the love of the flesh, gives
rise to the Divine Will, by which Divine Love is func-
tioned. The will of the flesh dies when the intelligence
and feeling, developed on the sense plane, are transposed
to spiritual qualities of being. Consciousness is governed
in the Divine Will when identified in spiritual qualities
of being, this giving rise to Wisdom and Love in union,
by which is Truth. Truth is Christ. Christ is formed
through the energies of Will, controlled in Divine Laws.
The will to be spiritual places one under the jurisdiction
of the Divine Laws, and causes to be formed in man the
spiritual state of being; even, as primarily, the will to be
28 Spiritual Significance of the Body
material caused the material state of man to be formed.
The pituitary gland, projected from the cerebrum, is the
seat of conscious life. It is the mothering principle of con-
sciousness and being. The pineal gland is called the cona-
rium, and is the masculine consort of the pituitary, the
feminine. Through the transformation of the mortal to
the immortal, the function of the pineal gland is reduced,
this permitting the old man to die, and the "Tree of Life"
to spring up. The primal conflict between the spirit and
the flesh takes place in the brain, in relation to the pitu-
itary and the pineal gland, this resulting in the supremacy
of Divine Love over the love of the flesh; and the victory
of Divine Will over the will of the flesh.
The transformed Brain becomes the organism for the
complete unfoldment of the Divine Plan, and the projec-
tion of the Divine Qualities. It is that by which absolute
Truth is known. The transformed brain is more than a
thinking apparatus. It is that by which one knows without
the effort of thought. This, however, is possible only in
the knowing of Truth. Regeneration of intelligence, feel-
ing, and will, makes this knowing possible. Yet, knowing
the Truth is only that a service of Truth may be rendered.
This service is universal in the promotion of a righteous
system of living.
Mind is not an organ, but is the emanated intelligence
from the throne of God within the consciousness. This
primal throne is within the brain, though it has its twelve
centers of expression throughout the organism. When the
Creative energies move from the top-head or brain, the
hells of the kosmos of the consciousness move also, this
precipitating the "clouds from heaven" that arise at the
coming of Christ. The coming of Christ is the projection
of Creative Qualities and Powers, from a perfected brain
to the race mind, when racially related; but is primarily
the projection from the transformed brain of the Qualities
of Truth to the organism of the completed individuaJ.
The completed individual is consciousness, male-female
in character.
The perfected Brain of each cycle is the ego in whom
Brain: Universal Intelligence and Mind 29
consciousness of the Principles, governing the cycle's pro-
gression, is known. The Principles that were projected to
produce the progression of a cycle are gained as known
Wisdom and Love at the cycle's close. This is the end of
the cycle, the perfection of the cycle gained as conscious-
ness of Man. This perfection is both Mind and Brain, the
seat of the Spirit and the Body to be. The energies of this
Spirit and Body are projected as Divine Qualities, in the
crossing of Christ into the race, this permitting to spring
up in the cycle that follows, states of consciousness of a
like spirit and body. A New Order in the Ages is poten-
tially identified at the end of mortality.
The Christ consciousness is the unity of Spirit and Body
in Truth. This is the oneness of Wisdom and Love, or
male-female qualities of consciousness. This conscious-
ness is the Father-Mother by which the children of God
are begotten and brought fortP.; as well as the race being
potentially identified for a new cycle of unfoldment in
keeping with the Qualities disseminated. The perfected
brain, as the organism of the Word, is the throne of God
from which are disseminated the Qualities of Being. These
are sown as seeds into the organism of the race, passing
out as energies of intelligence on one pole of being, and
as energies of feeling on the other pole. Thus the intel-
ligence and feeling of the race are replenished and pre-
pared for a further unfoldment. Even as brain is produced
from the energies of Mind, and Mind is promoted in its
expression by perfecting the brain, so the race functions
the energies of Christ-Mind, producing an organism of
intelligence and love, by which more of God Qualities can
be projected into the race.
MEDITATION
Through perfecting intelligence and love Brain is per-
fected.
I rejoice in a perfected Brain, by which Truth can be
made known.
I am governed in Divine Mind and Will and partake
of the real qualities of being.
EYES: PERCEPTION AND REDEMPTION
T
HE Eyes are the faculties of sight. Sight is capacity
to see what has been mentally formed. Sight is
first a mental perception. "I see," says the under-
standing state of consciousness, meaning, "I perceive with
the mind." The formation of pictures in modes of seeing
is consciousness viewing the forms of mental energies.
This is vision, imagery, formation.
The Eyes, two in number, represent the two poles of
expression, positive and negative. The positive is right,
male; the negative is left, female. The two poles as one
signify perfect vision. One would be in a state of chaos
without coordinated eyes. The Single Eye, gained as
Christ or Truth, is the result of uniting the male and
female qualities of consciousness, they being quickened
through spiritual unfoldment. This is the Spirit of One-
ness that offsets duality, and brings forth the Body of
Light, the organism of the Word or God. "If thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light." The Single
Eye is Truth, the final result of mentally perceiving the
duality in its relation to the One, or God, that permitted
it to be.
The Creative Principle of Oneness is physically identi-
fied in the unity of the eyes to see, the ears to hear. The
eyes represent the Wisdom of Creation, the ears the Love.
Both faculties are the means by which reality of con-
sciousness has its identification, though this is from the
spiritual seeing rather than from physical sight. The eyes
are the Cherubim of Creation, the ears are the Seraphim.
The two united as one is the Christ-Mind, the Single Eye
by which Truth is known. The knowing of Truth includes
also the knowing of the untruth, or the duality; for it is
through mastering the duality that one is opened in the
Spirit of Oneness, by which Truth can be.
Sight is the identification of light. Light is the Wisdom
of Creation in modes of emanation. Light is the intel-
[30J
Eyes: Perception and Redemption 31
ligence of energies of Wisdom, identified on the plane of
form as sight. Intelligence, the primal Creative Force,
moves to be identified, forming the eyes and the ears, light
and sound; or light and its emanation of energies on the
plane of form. The energy of intelligence is Love, there-
fore Wisdom and Love are one in the Creative Mind, mov-
ing as Light and its energy. While the sense of sight has
its identity in the brain, without the eyes it would have no
formed expression. Hence, the eyes are the organs of
sight, functioning light and its energies. The eyes become
the windows of the soul, portraying also the development
of love. The eyes are to light and intelligence what the
brain is to mind, the organism by which they express.
The optic nerve is the messenger of sight, the connect-
ing link between the brain and the eyes. The many parts
of the eye represent the dominant characteristics of con-
sciousness, primarily functioning light or intelligence. The
ego would be unable to form himself or herself without the
functioning of intelligence, though the real state of being
is formed from Divine Intelligence. Yet, it is not through
the sight of the eye, but rather through the light of Mind,
that one perceives and forms the real nature of Man.
The reality of the light of Mind is the reality of the eye.
This light is Divine Intelligence. The Divine Intelligence
identified in consciousness is the Eye, the lamp or light of
the body. This is the Single Eye, Christ, the One, by which
Truth is known. Truth is Christ. Christ is the lamp of the
body, the enlightening Principle of Being by which one
perceives him-herself as one is in the Creative Mind. It is
the Single Eye that fills the body with light, that is, the
emanated energies of Divine Intelligence. The Single Eye
is opposite to the dual. The two eyes represent the duality
of light that is functioned by mortals. The dual light is
in a form of knowing what is not the Truth. The Single
Eye is gained through understanding the duality in rela-
tion to governing Principles of Being.
The two eyes, dual in form, is in seeing good and evil.
This is a mental seeing, but it has its reflection by means
of the two eyes that can also witness on the outer plane
32 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of living that which is harmonious and that which is in-
harmonious. Even as thought communicates itself to the
eyes, so what the eyes see communicates itself to the mind.
Perfect sight is in seeing Truth, yet, until the male and
female elements that make up the organism are polarized
so as to be one in spirit, perfect expression cannot be on
the physical plane. Oneness of spirit that supersedes
duality has a harmonizing influence upon the function of
the eyes, but the mortal organism cannot express the per-
fection of the eternal being that is formed from the Prin-
ciples of Truth, or the Single Eye.
The two or dual states are one in Creative Mind, and
objectify in the being of man as the polarity of the eyes.
If the eyes were not balanced, one would see differently
with each eye. This would be chaos and confusion ex-
pressing, instead of cosmos or intelligence as the balanced
eyes register. The oneness of the two poles of Being, male
and female, is reversed on the objective plane as duality.
This duality not only registers primarily as two eyes, but
the tendency of the eyes to see everything in reversal
(upside-down) signifies the Law of Reversal existent from
the Creation.
The images mentally registered from the Creative Intel-
ligence become reversed on the plane of mind. The ego,
instead of primarily seeing in Divine Intelligence, sees in
ignorance or lack of intelligence. One must reverse the
mortal tendency of thought and see in the Light of Truth
to attain to the Divine Intelligence. This Law of Reversal
is also present in the brain in relation to sight. The fact
that images, seen with the sense of sight, are upside-down
on the retina is a reflection on the plane of nature of the
tendency of the mortal mind to see everything upside-
down. lhstead of seeing in Truth, the intelligence con-
veyed to mortal mind is reversed, or upside-down.
Primarily, instead of perceiving in the love of the good,
the ego of animality is in the love of the evil. This Law of
Reversal shows itself in many ways in the unfoldment of
consciousness, as well as in the physical organism, the
mental impression of the right side of the brain being
Eyes: Perception and Redemption 33
functioned by the left side of the body; and the impres-
sions of the left side of the brain being functioned by the
right side of the body. This is reflective of the primal cross
that exists in the formation of consciousness. It has its
origin in the cross of Christ with the forces of darkness,
by which Life and Being are promoted. It is the supersed-
ing of the love of the evil with the love of the good that
opens consciousness to the light, by which it may become
mentally illumined and function the Light of the Divine
Intelligence. This necessitates, however, the reversal of
all knowledges learned in the duality, superseding them
with the Light of Truth.
Sight is incidental to light functioning by means of the
coordinated parts of the eye. This functioning is through
the connection the eye and light bear to the brain. The
light of the brain, however, is not a beam or ray, but is
the energies of mind. These energies are the primal light
of consciousness, and are emanated in Divine Laws that
make for intelligent consciousness. Intelligent conscious-
ness needs eyes by which to unfold, for without eyes, it
would be in darkness and lack light. However, because
consciousness has pre-existent unfoldment through Divine
Laws, blind people go on functioning intelligence, often
gaining more illumination of mind from within than peo-
ple having the faculty of sight. One does not have the real
Light of Mind because one has the capacity of sight, for
it is mental perception that develops the Light of Mind.
One does not see in a dark room, though sense of sight
is not impaired because of the darkness. It is only when
darkness pervades the mind that sight may be impaired.
However, impaired sight may also be from the physical
organism of sight. The physical organism may lose its
coordination, its convexity, the nervous energy may fail
to function through the optic nerve, impairing sight. This
impairment is physical and temporary, and can be reme-
died in the present life, or in future embodiments; but
the darkness that invades the mind through the persist-
ency of evil, or the intensification of sensuality, is some-
thing with which the soul must reckon until a change of
34 Spiritual Significance of the Body
mind is effected. Intensified material forces that affect
the soul can result in physical blindness, and other forms
of malformation; if not in the present lifetime, in the
future embodiments of the unfolding consciousness.
Color, like sight, has its inception in the brain, though
it registers by the eye. Wave lengths or rays of light break
up into colors, all colors issuing from the seven rays. The
seven rays are the seven principles of Divine Intelligence,
identified on the plane of soul consciousness. Each color
has seven distinct aspects, though these may be highly
differentiated into twelve modes of expression. The seven
rays from within undergo five changes on the plane of
form, through the development of the five senses, ultimat-
ing in twelve distinct expressions in highly differentiated
form. It is the unfoldment of the seven Principles of Being,
and the activity of the Divine Intelligence, that has given
rise on the plane of the senses today to the many diversi-
fied expressions of colors. The outer world, relating to the
race, reflects what is unfolding within the spiritual do-
main.
The seven colors as the seven rays of Divine Intelligence
may be designated as the Seven Qualities of Being. These
are Wisdom, Yellow; Understanding, Orange; Love, Blue;
Will, Red; Substance, Indigo; Life, Green; Truth, Violet.
The seven colors are the result of light or white breaking
up in different wave lengths; though black or darkness
is an adjunct to the formation of colors. Spiritually dis-
cerned, this means that the pure or white Intelligence of
Creation, entering consciousness identified as Man, pivots
to the pure black or darkness, the non-intelligence. The
emanation of energies from these two poles, equal but
opposite, gives rise to colors in relation to soul, sight in
relation to mind, tone in relation to body. Mentality be-
comes physically identified as sight and the emanation of
energies as sound or hearing. Hearing is the tone of the
quality, seeing is the energy of the quality. The conscious-
ness of these energies forming itself produces soul in
which color is born. However, the first formed energies
identify the eye, it revealing the soul of consciousness,
Eyes: Perception and Redemption 35
when soul is seen in its creative relation.
Every mental energy has its color, as well as its tone or
vibration. Anger is red, jealousy is green, grief is gray,
sadness is blue, knowledge of a higher nature is yellow
and orange, emanations of Truth are endowed with purple
and violet. Every color has its complement, by which gray
or white may be produced. This means that every mental
emanation is reducible to that which produced it, or to a
state of neutrality. Gray indicates neutrality, while white
indicates the purity of Intelligence. It is to say, that every
mental energy on the plane of consciousness can be
brought into subjection to Divine Intelligence, from which
it issued, or brought to a state of negation or inactivity.
This is accomplished, however, through reducing mental
energies to purity or Truth, at the same time bringing to
cessation the adverse forces.
Black, called a distinct color is no-color. White its com-
plementary opposite is also colorless. Black typifies the
darkness, white the light. These are the primal poles of
Creative Law by which consciousness is formed. The for-
mation of consciousness gives rise to color and tone, or
sight and hearing. Music is born from the soul, and sig-
nifies at its inception the ecstasy of the Spirit moving
toward formation of consciousness. Fundamentally, mu-
sic, like sight, expresses through the agency of black or
darkness. The pupil of the eye is the portrayal of the
darkness of the eye, so essential to perfect sight. The Light
of Divine Intelligence springs up when one can bring the
darkness of consciousness to cessation, forming a blank
of neutrality or negation, against which the Divine Light
can function to make known the Principles of Divine In-
telligence.
Sight, as a reality, is the capacity to perceive the relation
of all things to the Divine Intelligence. This is the sight
of Truth, the opening of the Divine Light. Truth is the
Single Eye in contradistinction to the duality, the good and
evil of mortal progression. Truth, when gained, produces
a new creature who is freed from deterioration and the
material senses. This is the redeemed state of being, the
36 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Eye of Christ or Truth causing the formation of this state.
Redemption is freedom from darkness, from lack of light,
that is, from ignorance. The only ignorance is the lack of
perceiving the relation of things formed to the Creative
Principles that caused them to be. However, through these
Principles reversing their qualities on the plane of mortal
form, that which is does not partake of the nature of God.
Because of this, egos must reverse their mental tendencies,
and come to see all things in relation to Truth, or to under-
stand their lack of relation. When the Truth makes one
free, one is free forevermore; for the freedom of Truth
causes the form of itself to identify, this revealing the
redeemed body.
Redemption is the ultimate goal of consciousness, but it
is effected through the operation of the Divine Laws. The
reality of being is not born through the will of men, nor
the blood, nor the will of flesh, but through the Will of
God. The Will of God is the Love of God in action. Love
is the Mother Principle of God, with which is the Father
or Wisdom, by which the child of God, or redeemed state
of being, is revealed. The Love of God is gained through
dying to the love of the flesh, therefore redemption is
operative only in egos who have attained to the Spirit of
Oneness through overcoming the duality; who have died
to the self-love and will, and have been opened in the Love
and Will of Truth. Redemption, fulfilled, is the revelation
of the Body of Light, as the vehicle of fourth-dimensional
consciousness; and the body of white as its humanized
form of expression on the visible plane.
The common disturbances of the eyes are classed under
four heads: Myopia or short sight, hypermetropia or long
sight, sometimes called far sight, astigmatism, or lack of
coordinated sight, and presbyopia, or old sight. Asthen-
opia or weak sight might be added to the names of these
common discords of the eyes. Six pairs of muscles control
the eyes, those that move up and down, oblique, and cir-
cular. Exercise is essential to the health of the eyes, and
when properly expressed, has been found to offset many
of the common maladies that beset the eyes, as grouped
Eyes: Perception and Redemption 37
under the above heads. The muscles of the eyes must func-
tion perfectly to permit proper expression of sight. The
six muscles conform in symbology to the "six days" of
Creative activity, the eyes being that which primarily
identifies as consciousness. The eyes are personalized as
the I, the seat of consciousness. Consciousness identified
in self-perception is the soul of man, hence, the eyes be-
come the windows of the soul, indicating the developed
intelligence and love.
Perfect sight is not absolutely possible to the mortal
man. Mortality is subject to wear and tear, to decay and
discord. The disintegration of mortal tissues would have
to be overcome to insure perfect functioning of the mortal
organism. This disintegration is due to lack of polarity
between the positive and negative elements that make up
the cells of the organism. This is present because of lack
of unity between the male (positive) and female (nega-
tive) forces of consciousness. This lack of unity is offset
in the second coming of Christ, when the Divine Laws
have perfected themselves in consciousness. It is through
Christ, the identified Qualities of Being, that the Divine
Laws rule in the consciousness of Man, this preparing
the way for the redemption of the body. The body will be
redeemed from sin, sickness, sorrow, and death when the
male and female qualities are polarized in unity and
harmony.
The control of the qualities of consciousness to Christ,
first as Man, and second as Woman, making up the first
and the second coming of Christ, respectively, is that by
which both spirit and body are united as one and their
oneness promoted. Oneness is wholeness, though the re-
lation of the two poles of consciousness, male and female,
in conformity to Divine Laws, is that by which harmony is
identified. The mystical truths relating to the establish-
ing of the male and the female qualities of consciousness
in unity and wholeness cannot be fully explained in this
book. The explanation of mystical truths will be found
in the Book, "Science of Love With Key to Immortality,"
by the author.
38 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The purpose of perfect mental sight is not that one may
have perfect physical vision, but that one may attain to
the Eye of Truth, and be spiritually born as a state of being
that will not be subject to disintegration, or to lack and
inharmony. Proper perceptions of Truth, with their se-
quential conceptions, will redeem the body and set man
free from sin, sickness, sorrow, decay, and death. The
possibility of the redeemed body is in the attainment of
consciousness of the Principles of Truth. These Principles,
as the Spirit of God, contain within themselves the form to
be, the emanating energies of the Principles giving forma-
tion to their fruit as the body of the Spirit. This is the
body that is not subject to the law of sin and death.
The Eyes register the intelligence and emotion of the
ego. The pupil of the eye suggests one who is able to
learn. That the primal learning of the ego is through
the forces of darkness does not obstruct one from gaining
the light; but rather develops the faculties of conscious-
ness by which light can be functioned, and the Intelligence
of the Spirit can be revealed. One must attain the light
that complements darkness before the Light of Truth can
be revealed. It is through the unfolding Intelligence of the
Spirit that the ego is taught of the realities of being, with
the light of mind and the sight of the eyes being corre-
spondingly benefited. The symbology of the eye indicates
the outworking of Creative Principles. The aqueous and
vitreous humors or waters of the eyeball indicate the
water principle of Creation that is one with the land, and
by which the land or form is revealed. The eyes are the
formative faculties of consciousness, the centers of
imagery on the plane of the physical, and of vision on the
plane of the mental.
The Eyes, through the nervous system, have a physical
relationship with different parts of the body. The throat,
ears, and the eyes form a trinity of forces, so closely re-
lated that what affects one discordantly will often affect
the others. The stomach and the liver also intimately
relate to the eyes. From a heavenly standpoint, the eyes
are affected by the soul and the mental forces. The
Eyes: Perception and Redemption 39
heavenly pertains to the spiritual, though the outer aspect
of the spiritual is the mental. The character of mentality
is the nature of the sight or light that is functioned in a
consciousness. Eyes register the beauty of mind and soul,
though they also register the evil and hellish tendencies of
the consciousness. The color of eyes relates to the soul and
its dominant characteristics.
The eye is the broadcasting center of the consciousness.
The hypnotic eye is a center of consciousness so psychi-
cally centralized that its influences can be projected to con-
trol another. The eyes emit energies according to the nature
of the unfolding love and intelligence of the ego. They
can radiate tenderness or flash the fire of hate. Yet, it is
not the eyes but the Mind that causes this emanation. The
eyes are agents of the Spirit, Soul, and Mind, by which the
unfolding intelligence and love may be disseminated into
the race and into the universe. The universal dissemina-
tion of the Qualities of Truth is through Christ, the Single
Eye. This ultimates in the redeemed body, full of light,
and in which there can be nothing that makes for dark-
ness or discord. This body is the fruit of God and Christ,
the revealed consciousness and being that conform to the
Plan and Laws of Being (God).
MEDITATION
I see in perfection through Christ, the united Wisdom
and Love.
No sense of darkness can obscure man's sight or impair
his vision.
The function and forces of the eyes are established in
harmony through Divine Light, and sight is expressed in
harmony and order.
EARS: RECEPTIVITY AND OBEDIENCE
T HE Ears are the organs of hearing and receptivity.
Obedience to what is received follows as perfectly
as sound follows light, when Divine Intelligence
governs consciousness. The five senses, centralized to the
Eyes and Ears, are primarily Creative Centers forming the
consciousness. Through the Law of Reversal, signified in
the function of the eyes, the consciousness formed as a
kind of a man, identifying as the self or I. Through the I,
and its five senses of expression, consciousness becomes
aware of the world of effects, as well as of itself. When
the five senses are perfected, the ego is opened to the
Principles from the Creative ·Centers, and is formed in
reality of being.
The new creature, in newness of spirit and body, is
brought forth as the real state of being, through gaining
the Single Eye or consciousness of the Divine Intelligence;
and through hearing the Word (feeling the action of
Divine Intelligence). One hears when one is obedient to
what moves in the consciousness from the centers of In-
telligence. Hence, the scriptural declarations, "He who
hath ears, let him hear." One has ears when one can re-
spond to the movement of Divine Intelligence, with which
is also the emanation of Divine Love; this receptivity pro-
moting obedience, by which the Divine Will is done on the
plane of form, or man, as it is in heaven, the invisible
plane of Principles.
The Ears, two in number, represent polarity of forces of
sound. The duality is in the number of ears, but the po-
larity is in the hearing of both ears as one. This corre-
sponds to the duality controlled by the One, which in turn
makes for the objectification of the trinity, the three of
consciousness. The three are signified on the plane of
consciousness as Spirit, Soul, and Body, by which Mind is
gained, though physically they are represented by the
three departments of body, viz., Head, Chest, and Abdo-
[401
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 41
men and Limbs. The ears, right and left, typify the male
and the female poles of being that are united as one in the
capacity to hear. However, one hears in perfection when
he receives the Word of God as the movement of Truth
in consciousness.
Hearing, in its reality, is the capacity to receive the
Truth, though Light must be mentally perceived, in con-
sciousness, before it can actualize itself. The mental per-
ception of Light is the spiritual advancement, though this
is the Light of the Mind of the Spirit; and not the light
that is darkness that is promoted in the development of
the senses. Knowing the Truth is the true seeing, the Eye
of consciousness. This is Christ, in a mystical sense. The
capacity to receive Christ is Christ's capacity to be con-
ceived and to be formed in consciousness. The many
scriptural admonitions, in relation to this receiving, sug-
gesting that people who have ears, hear, pertain to the
capacity to receive the Truth. Physical ears, as agents of
hearing, are not the means by which one receives the
Truth, for they are but the objectification in conscious-
ness of a capacity and function that exist in the real man,
when he is formed. The real man is formed through re-
ceiving the Truth, for sound, the principle of hearing, is
the primal motion of formation of energies perceived or
seen.
The outer ears help to coordinate sound, aiding the
inner ear to function harmoniously. They also make for
beauty and harmony. It is in the inner ear that the mech-
anism of hearing is hidden. This conforms to the prin-
ciple of hearing. Hearing is an interior condition of con-
sciousness, a capacity to be receptive to the Light of
Divine Intelligence. Where motion of Light is set up, Will
is identified, it being the principle of bodily form. Obedi-
ence is an adjunct to Will, a necessary conformity to
Divine Intelligence by which consciousness of the real
man is formed. The real man, who is to express in re-
deemed body, is fashioned through the Will of God,
operative in one attuned to the Single Eye or Christ; and
receptive to the operation of the Divine Love by which
42 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the reality of being is formed.
Hearing is a functioning of sound. Sound is the energy-
rate of light. Light is Intelligence. Intelligence identifies
as the Eye, the perceiving powers of consciousness. The
ears are the conceiving powers. To conceive is to form,
hence, the ears pertain to the formation of consciousness.
Consciousness formed in conformity with the Divine Laws
is spiritual man, the redeemed state of being. Formation
is in the obedience that consciousness expresses, when
conforming with what is heard from the Spirit of Truth.
When the Truth is heard, the real state of being is formed.
Truth is heard when the intelligence is spiritualized. In-
telligence that is not spiritualized is not light but darkness,
though on the plane of mortality it may be called light.
Yet, "If the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is
thy darkness!"
It is only when the ears receive the Light of Truth that
spiritual man is conceived, that is, formed in conscious-
ness, and the Will of the Divine is set up. This Will, en-
tering the soul, is the true obedience of man to God. The
Divine Will moves in consciousness when the soul or feel-
ing forces are joined with the spirit. This is the union of
the ears with the eyes, or the atonement of the will of man
with the Will of God. The Will of God is the redeemed
will of man. This is to say that God has no Will apart
from the redeemed will of man, therefore, the revelation
of the fruits of Divine Laws cannot be until man is willing
to let the Divine Will be done in him. This willingness is
accompanied with obedience to what is heard of the
Spirit, as well as to what is seen. The eyes and the ears,
in their functional principles, conjoin to produce man in
reality of being. The eyes typify the Male Principle and
the ears the Female Principle of Creation. These father-
mother the consciousness into the reality of being, when
functioning in their inherent principles.
In reality, hearing and seeing are one. Hearing, as the
feeling faculty of consciousness, ultimates in Love, and
seeing, as the knowing faculty, ultimates in Wisdom. Wis-
dom and Love are one in Divine Law, the parents of all
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 43
that is reproduced. Hence, the eyes and the ears are the
parental factors of consciousness, the means by which
consciousness is primarily formed. Wisdom, the Eyes, is
the masculine pole of consciousness: the Ears, the femi-
nine pole, identify Love. These as parents give rise to
speech, the formulated result of the energies of light and
sound; the Word making Itself known and heard to be
formed. Consciousness, perceiving the Light of Divine
Intelligence, and receiving its emanation as Divine Love,
goes through the duplicate process of the Creation, form-
ing the reality of being that is the Word made flesh.
The Word, which is God, emanates first as Divine Light.
This is one with the energy of the emanation, and gives
rise to sound. Sound is formed as speech. Speech is ex-
pressed as language, and is the Word in expression. The
Word means to speak. The Word speaks from conscious-
ness when the eyes and ears are opened to the Truth. This
is Man expressing Truth, the Word being the controlling
Principles of Being. Primarily, egos do not have eyes and
ears in spiritual coordination or identity, therefore they do
not perceive nor conceive the Truth; neither do they speak
the Truth. Functioning in the light that is darkness, they
see and hear in the delusion and give expression to it in
forms of words that do not convey intelligence. This is
the character of a kind of a man in the evolutionary proc-
ess of unfolding the qualities of consciousness, by which
he may become conscious of his real self; though this
necessitates becoming unconscious to that developed in
the delusion of the senses.
Spiritually, one hears from within, even as physically
one hears with the inner ear. The inner ear, in reality,
is the emanated energies of Truth perceived. Conscious-
ness catches in the without what is impressed from within,
as the outer ear catches what is impressed by means of
the inner ear. Yet, it is not sound that is heard but the
emanating energies of intelligence that give rise to hear-
ing. Hearing is controlled by the auditory nerve, this
forming the connecting link with the intelligence govern-
ing. Auditory means voice. Voice is the sound of the
44 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Word. The Word, meaning "to speak," gives rise to the
Voice of the Word. The Voice of the Word is universal
Truth, the emanated energies of Wisdom and Love, that
are introduced into the race, through the authority of
Divine Will at the projection of Christ or Truth. It is this
projection that reduces mortality to naught, and also en-
lightens the race by means offeeling and thought, so that
it may be prepared for immortality. Word is Divine Wis-
dom and Love expressing as one, this oneness being Truth.
It emanates its energies from the thrones of its being
within the consciousness, these becoming sight to the eyes,
and hearing to the ears, when individually related.
The eyes are the identification of the Spirit in conscious-
ness, and the ears are the Soul in identity. The conjunc-
tion of the two in consciousness gives rise to Mind, the
visible evidence of the Divine Intelligence that causes
sight and hearing to be. Mind is Divine Intelligence ex-
pressing. It is the identification of Life, the energy of united
Wisdom and Love. Obedience to what is heard and felt
and seen identifies Body, the fourth department of con-
sciousness that reveals the form of the other three. "The
mind of the flesh is death; but the Mind of the Spirit is
life and peace." It is the Mind of the Spirit that brings
forth the Body of the Spirit, which is Man in conscious
relation to the Laws of Being.
Everyone has ears,but not everyone hears until advanced
sufficiently to receive the Light of Truth. The Light of
Truth is the emanated energies of Divine Intelligence, in
which is also Love. Wisdom and Love are never sepa-
rated in Creative Law. These are the Cherubim and the
Seraphim that make up the energies of Creation. These
energies penetrate the consciousness in authority of the
Divine Law, making for greater advancement of intel-
ligence and love. As man is obedient, doing what is known,
he grows in grace and in knowledge, in this way carrying
along as one the forces of spirit, soul, and body. The doing
what is known is the Will in progression. Will is the seat
of form, the body. It has its impetus in Love, which has
its seat of action from the ears, as spiritual principles; for
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 45
the ears are the conceiving powers of consciousness, by
which what is known is formed. The Will is in the en-
ergies, and has its outer identification as the obedience of
the ego to do what is perceived and conceived within the
consciousness, revealing the righteous expression of body.
Will is the doing power, by which is being in keeping with
the spirit of the Will, or the spirit of Love.
The cultivation of the "listening ear" is one of the primal
steps in unfolding consciousness, preparatory toward spir-
itualizing itself. One must be a good listener on the nat-
ural plane, before one can aspire to spiritual advance-
ment that transcends the natural. This is important in
developing receptivity to the expressing intelligence. If
one is not given to listening to the outer ideas that are
expressed, one does not set up the law by which con-
nection is made with the inner expressions of intelligence.
Every spiritual principle has its natural counterpart. If
the ego is faithful on the outer plane, in the counterpartal
expression of intelligence, he makes himself capable of
connection with the hidden spiritual laws, and is taught
from the Divine Intelligence within.
If one does not hear what is expressed outwardly to him,
he cannot hear the inner expression. This is to say that if
one has not learned to hear on the natural plane, he will
not be able to hear on the spiritual plane. Hence, the de·-
velopment of capacity to listen, to receive, to weigh and
balance what is heard, and to be obedient in doing or in
not doing what is perceived and received, all these steps
being important toward bringing forth the real ego or
state of being. One grows in intelligence through cultivat-
ing the listening ear. This is not to say that one grows
because of what one hears, but that one cultivates the
capacity to hear and to deal properly with what is heard.
The capacity to hear and to discriminate as to the use
of what is heard makes for perfected natural expression.
Herein can be seen the connection between the sense of
hearing and the sense of taste. Taste is the capacity of dis-
crimination. Taste principally functions by means of the
tongue, though the tongue is also the organ of speech.
46 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Speech is the result of functioning sound as hearing. It is
from the ears that the spiritual and natural planes of con-
sciousness are distinctly formed; they relating to the for-
mation of Intelligence as to speech and voice, that are
functioned by means of tongue. This is the relation of the
ears to the formed plane, words giving form to intelli-
gences; though in relation to the spiritual, words of Truth
must be emanated and their energies formed in the prin-
ciple of Divine Love, through willing obedience to the
Truth perceived and received. Eyes pertain to the energies
to be formed, while ears pertain to their formation, though
it is in the spiritual significance of the ears, as the energies
of Divine Love, that the flesh of the Word (speech) is
brought forth.
Speech, the result of hearing, is the expression out-
wardly of what has been impressed from within. Inner
impressions of Intelligence give rise to mentality, the ac-
tivity of which identifies Mind, the result of the union of
sight and hearing, as to the principles they signify. Taste,
the physical expression that arises because of discrimina-
tion in hearing and seeing, pertains to the soul as well as
to the mind. The inspirations of the Spirit that give rise
to Intelligence relate to the nostrils, the discerning facul-
ties of consciousness. These four faculties, arising as one,
in the unfoldment of consciousness, give identity to feel-
ing or touch, the fifth sense by which conscious being is
identified. Thus, it is from the formation of consciousness,
centered to the ears, that the senses are identified, result-
ing, when consciousness is spiritualized, in the gaining of
the eyes, or Divine Light. It can be seen that the activity
of the Divine Light causes the senses to be formed, though
their reality is present only in the spiritualized conscious-
ness.
One makes contact with the Silence of the inner domain
of consciousness through cultivating the listening ear. The
cultivation of the listening ear is a phase of mental and
spiritual unfoldment, though it is not until consciousness
is spiritualized that it can hear the Word within. The
Silence is the Naught, the plane of the unformed, though
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 47
it is also the possibility of all formation. It is in the Silence
that the ego listens for and hears the Word of God. This
is not as though one hears another speak, for the Voice
of the Word is the Soundless One. In this is another
paradox of the Creative Law, that all sound comes out of
the Soundless. The point of the Silence, in relation to the
ears, corresponds to the point in the eyes where there is
no sight.
The ego seeks to still the thoughts of mind and to enter
the Soundless in the Silence. The Divine Intelligence may
be contacted in the Soundless, and the ego may under-
stand the formation of sound, as well as the spiritual sig-
nificance of the eyes and the ears as physical organs.
One listens in the Silence for the Truth to declare itself.
The tendency to declare a Truth as the means of ap-
proaching the Silence is for the purpose of discipline, as
well as to conform to its inherent law of declaring Truth
to man, giving to him in keeping with his giving. Con-
sciousness must turn from the activities of the energies
of the senses to receptivity to the emanations of Divine
Light and Love to contact the Silence.
The Silence is the Secret Place of the Most High, the
Holy of Holies. When the ego can become silent before
this throne of his or her being, he or she receives the
inspirations of the Almighty, from which comes under-
standing. This is the beginning of Light and its emana-
tion. These inspirations are the eyes of Being, that through
their energy-rate cause the ears to be identified. Hearing
in the Silence is a knowing. It is not a psychic hearing,
nor a listening to one's own mentality. It is, when actually
attained, a contact with the Word by which Truth is
known. Entrance into the Silence is possible only when
the I controls the forces of sense, and the mortal conscious-
ness is stilled. When consciousness has attained to Truth,
it is in the Silence and does not need to go into the Silence;
for it remains in coordinated relation to the Word, know-
ing the Truth through the Eyes and Ears of the Spirit.
Truth carries its own will to be formed, and the ego is
made to be obedient to the Truth heard. When the Truth
48 Spiritual SifJnificance of the Body
is genuinely heard, obedience to the Truth is omnipresent.
This is not the case with hearing knowledges and mental
intelligences that issue from the mind of the flesh. One
has choice as to whether he or she shall or shall not
execute what is outwardly heard. One also has choice in
the spiritual unfoldment, as to whether one shall renounce
the will of the flesh or not, and enter into the unfoldment
of the Will of the Spirit. When this renunciation is made,
and Truth begins to unfold, choice is ended; and the Will
of God worketh to accomplish its purpose within the con-
sciousness of the ego, demanding obedience; but which is
gladly and lovingly expressed at this point of unfoldment.
It is possible to hear and not understand. But where
understanding is present, obedience is also. There is no
reason why one should hear the things of the Spirit if one
is not able to be obedient to them; therefore the natural
man, following the trend of his own will, cannot perceive
the things of the Spirit, for they are spiritually discerned.
It is better not to hear, than to hear and not do what one
believes to be the Truth. Not doing what is understood
makes for wilful sin and disobedience. This is conscious
sin in contradistinction to subconscious or unconscious
sin, progressed in ignorance.
Understanding and Will wage war at a certain point of
one's unfoldment, for the will to be mortal is vastly more
established in consciousness than the will to be immortal.
Hence, the will to not do what is heard attempts to rob
consciousness of its understanding by trying to make it
believe that it has not understood. Or if understanding is
recognized, the ego is persuaded that it is not yet ready
to be obedient to what is heard, and that it needs further
experiences in materiality by which to grow; or delusion
enters and attempts to set the lie upon the Truth that has
been heard, distorting the Principles to suit the material
purposes of the ego. There are many subtle by-plays that
take place in the consciousness on every plane of unfold-
ment, the enticements of evil seeking supremacy, aided
and abetted by the will and love of the flesh. When the
ego takes conscious and intelligent dominiOn over the
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 49
Will, and becomes obedient to the emanated intelligences
of the Spirit that open within the consciousness, it is in a
position to hear more of the Plan of the Spirit, and to be
obedient to what is heard.
Deafness, the main malady afflicting the ears, may be
due to several conditions of consciousness relating to hear-
ing. It may be due to inability to hear, to receive, to under-
stand, for any unused function of consciousness does not
yield an increase, but makes for disintegration and lack of
normal expression. Deafness may be due to material de-
terioration or extreme selfishness. It is often character-
ized by a very self-centered, arrogant, or stubborn state of
consciousness. It may be due to disordered soul forces,
distorted feelings which directly relate to the ears, through
the will or love. Deafness may be the result of disobedi-
ence, through developing will in contrary relation to the
unfolding understanding. This is to say where disobedi-
ence to one's inner intelligence is persisted in, deafness
may result; though this may not show up until lifetimes
of progression declare it.
All forces pertaining to understanding and obedience,
violated, may engender loss of hearing. Lack of recep-
tivity to the inner Intelligence cuts off the perfect func-
tioning of the ears. Deafness is one with dumbness when
it is hereditary, though they may also affect each other
through other reasons. This indicates that intelligence is
not properly functioning in the consciousness, and right-
eous expression is not operative. Speech, the identifica-
tion of expressed intelligence, is cut off because conscious-
ness is not hearing on the inner plane of unfoldment.
However, conditions present in one lifetime may have
been promoted in previous ones, the persistent rejection
of the Intelligence of the Spirit finally resulting in deaf
ears, physically and spiritually. This is to say, that rejec-
tion of spiritual unfoldment, in ages of progression, gives
rise to physical abnormalities, as well as to mental dull-
ness that is lack of hearing.
The soul is the seat of hearing, when hearing is spiritu-
ally analyzed. The soul is the feeling nature. It is made
50 Spiritual Significance of the Body
up of the energies of light or intelligence, these energies
forming the emotional nature. When the soul is disor-
dered by ignorance, feeling is not properly functioned, and
deaf and dumb conditions result. Many deaf and dumb
people are habitually stubborn, wilful, and inclined to re-
jection of higher intelligence. People may be deaf through
timidity, sensitiveness, fear, or lack of advancement,
though these conditions are due to the negative pole of
consciousness being undeveloped. All diseases and dis-
orders are due to over development of the positive forces,
or under development of the negative forces of conscious-
ness.
The spiritual capacity to listen and to hear the inspira-
tions of the inner Intelligence stimulates the physical ca-
pacity to hear; even as capacity to understand in perfec-
tion rejuvenates the sight. Capacity to be obedient to what
is understood sharpens the sense of hearing and makes
for freedom of Will. Conc'entration is not alone of the
eyes, but it is of the ears also. Failure to be obedient to
what is known makes stagnant the Will and dulls the
hearing, as well as holds one in a state of ignorance and
limitation. Keenness of mentality must react as keenness
of sight and hearing, as well as mental vision and re-
newed Will. The active Will, when controlled by Under-
standing, gives vitality to the body and makes for a greater
expression of harmony.
Hearing is more interior than seeing, though, spiritu-
ally, it is the result of emanated energies of intelligence
(sight). Music has its origin in the relation of light, sound,
and color. The capacity of the arts and sciences also
arises at this point of unfolding consciousness. Beauty
springs up at the meeting point of light and sound, iden-
tifying as color to the eyes, and tone or music to the ears.
Beauty of soul, intelligence of mind, are the ears and eyes
in modes of expression. Hearing and seeing are funda-
mentally spiritual and interior. When consciousness at-
tains to the inner thrones of its being, transcending the
sense of sight and hearing, it genuinely sees and hears.
This is to see and hear the Truth, and to feel the ecstasy
Ears: Receptivity and Obedience 51
of the Spirit in the organism, which is the energy of Divine
Love emanated from the Divine Wisdom.
Seeing and hearing the Truth are one, for they are Wis-
dom and Love in modes of expression. The ecstasy that
arises when Truth is being, for its being is present with its
knowing (or its being known), is the Deific orgasm, the
influx of the Creative Energies into the consciousness.
This is the reality of which the sexual orgasm is the coun-
terfeit. Obedience to the Truth, seen and heard, gives rise
to the Will of Being that forms the reality of being as the
spiritual state of man. The Will of Being is one with the
Love, therefore it can be seen that the primal Father and
Mother of consciousness bring forth the spiritual state of
being; in contradistinction to fathers and mothers on the
material plane of existence bringing forth a kind of a
man from the orgasmic influences of sexual love and in-
telligence. The Eyes of Truth as Father, and the Ears of
Truth as Mother, active as one, give rise to consciousness
of Life and Being. Consciousness of Life and Being is
Man, conformed to the inherent Principles of Being. This
Man is the Eyes and Ears of the Creator, the means by
which the Truth of Being is projected toward all men, as
the Light of the world.
MEDITATION
I hear Truth and am obedient to its impressions.
My ears are opened to understand and I hear in per-
fection.
No sense of deafness can control man, for I am con-
trolled in Wisdom and Love.
TONGUE: TASTE, TONE, AND
DISCRIMINATION
T HE Tongue is a four-fold organ. It relates to spirit,
soul, mind, and body. It is the organ of taste, in
relation to the body, the means by which food is
enjoyed. This makes for natural progression and the sus-
tenance of the natural organism. Taste, in its esthetic
nature, relates to the soul, and therein the soul relates to
the tongue. Taste, in relation to dress, architecture, music,
etc., whife functioned mentally, has its inception in the
soul where color and beauty originate. It may seem to
the personal nature that all things originate in the mind,
but there are underlying principles that control the forces
that relate to the mind, and to the soul.
Taste, in relation to food, is counterparted in its devel-
opment on other planes of expression. Discrimination,
the mental quality relating to the tongue, is functioned in
connection with the changing taste. The feeling nature of
the soul, in constant change, gives rise to diversity of de-
sire, this causing changes of taste on the mental and on the
physical planes of expression. What one finds agreeable
today may be met with repulsion tomorrow, because of
a change of taste and discrimination. When conscious-
ness is premised to principles, it will rest on a substantial
base; and while growth will continue, the progression of
the past is carried forward rather than offset. Stability of
character attends consciousness premised to principles,
while unstability characterizes one unfolding the primi-
tive desires and tendencies.
The Tongue, in its relation to the spirit, gives rise to
voice and speech. It is not that the tongue is the organ of
voice, but that through its service to the larynx, it makes
voice and speech possible. Voice is the energy rate of in-
telligence, while speech is the formation in words of the
energy rate of intelligence. It is in its relation to speech
that the tongue has a mystical significance. Speech is the
(52]
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 53
manifestation of the Word, in language, on the plane
of consciousness. The Word, meaning to speak, formu-
lates its own intelligence when Truth is spoken; though
language is the means by which intelligence is cultivated
toward the capacity of attaining consciousness of Truth.
Tone is the means by which intelligence is outwardly
voiced, as well as permitting its expression in song and
music. The energies of mind are suppressed, and the inner
impressions of intelligence are confused and obstructed,
unless there is a legitimate expression by means of voice.
Words are the forms of energies of mind, and in their
relation to tongue, voice the intelligence of mind. Words
are the evidence of form, the body of intelligence. They
give character to consciousness, according to the energy-
rate of their forces: words of wisdom disseminate the
energy of intelligence, while words of hate and anger dis-
seminate energies in keeping with the qualities of the
words expressed. The expression of words has an effect
upon the organism of man, for words give character to
their energies, producing a harmonious or inharmonious
effect; according to the feeling that prompts their ex-
pression.
Tongue, as an organ of speech, is both physical and spir-
itual in its function. It is the one function that is brought
forth from the two, that is from the function of the eyes
and the ears. This is to say, that from the standpoint of
principles, the eyes as unfolding intelligence, and the ears
as the energies of light functioned as sound, give rise to
consciousness. Consciousness is primarily identified as
sound which formulates as speech, the capacity to cdnvey
outwardly the ideas impressed from within. Thus, man,
when conscious of speaking Truth, is the expression of the
Word, its mouth and function. Man is not only the mouth
of the Word, but he is the embodiment of the Word, when
opened to know the inner Principles and their unfolding
ideas. Thus it is written in scripture, that one functioning
the Word gives to others what is given of the Father, that
is, expresses what is impressed through the Laws of Being.
The necessity for food and the organ of mastication is
54 Spiritual Significance of the Body
automatically set up with the identification of conscious-
ness. The primal necessity of the natural man is to eat;
while the primal necessity of consciousness, unfolding
the reality of itself, is to think. Thinking is the eating of
ideas that corresponds to the physical necessity of eating
the forms that have been-made from these ideas; for all
things first exist as ideas in the Creative Mind. Speech
follows thinking, though one must cease to eat of the tree
of the knowledge of good and evil before one can eat of
the Tree of Life, and speak the Word's language, that is,
the language of Truth.
Discrimination, the mental function that relates to the
tongue, is outwardly functioned by the tongue as an organ,
though inwardly arises on the plane of mind. Discrimina-
tion as to taste is functioned in the tongue, without which
there would be no sense of enjoyment as to food, nor sense
of repulsion to foods that are unpleasant. Taste, as to food,
varies according to the mental unfoldment of egos. The
mental quality of discrimination is physically functioned
by the tongue, the mental unfoldment giving character to
taste; though taste is also influenced from the soul and
its desires. The sense of taste, functioned by the tongue,
reflects itself from the soul as taste in modes of expres-
sion. Since the Word is four-fold in its function, produc-
ing spirit, soul, mind, and body of consciousness, it would
follow that the primal organ by which consciousness can
be, would relate to these four departments. The tongue,
is the seat of four-fold consciousness, by which conscious
being is promoted. Consciousness, as speech, is identified
by means of the tongue, though it is not until Truth is
spoken that consciousness is identified in reality of being.
Eating is the primal function of consciousness by which
it promotes itself spiritually and physically, mentally and
soulfully. Consciousness spiritually eats when it partakes
of the substance of Spirit and expresses the Truth. It
physically eats and nourishes the natural organism, chang-
ing its food according to its mental progression. Con-
sciousness mentally eats by partaking of ideas of mind,
tbus growing in knowledge and material advancement.
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 55
As to soul, consciousness eats of the sexual forces, giving
temporary embodiment to itself, by which it may attain
to ·reality of being. Yet, consciousness does not attain to
reality of being through sexual birth, but through spir-
itual birth. "Ye must be born again." Spiritual birth is
accomplished through the operation of the Word in con-
sciousness, after one has ceased to eat of the sexual forces
and to materialize the self.
Discrimination is the capacity to ascertain the differ-
ence between dual aspects of forces. It is the art of differ-
entiation, making for division and separation. Its final
function is to determine what is spiritual and what is
material. This is accomplished at a high point of advance-
ment, after one has eaten of the dual forces and found
both aspects of them unsatisfactory. Discrimination as to
food, clothes, houses to dwell in, books to read, and vari-
ous other modes of expression may not appear to relate to
the tongue; though tongue is the primal one of the five
senses by which discrimination becomes physically ex-
pressed. The five senses are the means by which the un-
folding Intelligence and Love of Being are projected to
consciousness, to be manifested and formed as a state of
being. However, a kind of a state of being is formed before
the state of reality of being, this giving rise to the develop-
ment of a spurious intelligence and love before their real
expression can be.
Discrimination is the very essence of growth, and leads
to distinct individual expression. The power to discrimi-
nate makes for diversity, but diversity is the formed
aspect of the Infinite. All would be alike to the conscious-
ness without the faculty of discrimination. As discrimina-
tion is unfolded, taste arises. Taste is individual accord-
ing to the unfolded intelligence and love. People without
taste ape others in the choice of things relating to the outer
life, having no particular thought-unfoldment of their
own. Where taste is not properly unfolded, there is a
confused and disordered unfoldment of intelligence.
Taste, in its inner sense, pertains to the soul. The en-
ergies of the soul, made up of the feeling forces, partake
56 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of the nature of unfolding intelligence; thus taste is di-
rectly influenced by the mind. Where taste is uncon-
trolled, the soul forces run riot and intelligence is not
governing. Uncontrolled taste, on the physical plane, re-
acts to gluttony, drunkenness, and greed, and on the soul
plane it may express as licentiousness and adultery. Con-
trolled appetite, and intelligently discriminative taste,
mean a well-ordered soul, mind, and body. Lack of de-
veloped taste shows itself in wrong combination of colors,
or reading matter, and in other ways relates the ego to
forces of darkness and chaos.
Every quality expressed from one department of con-
sciousness has its reactions and counterpartal expression
from the other departments. On the plane of soul, dis-
crimination assures harmony or promotes inharmony. On
the plane of spirit, discrimination is operative, giving rise
to particular character and unfoldment. On the plane
of body, discrimination becomes taste, while on the plane
of mind it is a contrast of ideas, by which intelligence is
promoted or retarded. The development of one depart-
ment of consciousness is the development of the other
departments in corresponding ways, common to their
functions. It is not alone from the within that the unfold-
ing forces and qualities react in the four departments of
consciousness, but from the without also.
Physically, taste has its seat in the tongue, in the taste
bulbs. The palate, and upper part of the pharynx, are also
thought to be endowed with sense of taste. The taste bulbs
are obscured in their expression because of cooked food.
When fasting, the taste bulbs are uncovered and may be
very noticeable. It is after a fast that one can discern the
keenness of taste. This keenness of taste is often impaired
by eating food that is too hot. The taste bulbs may also
be noticeable when inflamed or disordered by acid condi-
tions of the system.
Taste has its expression as hot and cold, sweet and
bitter, acid and alkaline, salt and metallic. The sense of
taste is very delicate, and is thought to be chiefly on the
edges and tips of the tongue. However, different qualities
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 57
of food are functioned at different parts of the tongue.
Certain elements are not tasted on the front part of the
tongue that are discerned at the back, and vice versa. The
tongue is a barometer of the condition of the alimentary
tract, though certain physical conditions can also be dis-
cerned by the eyes.
Cooking caters to the sense of taste, yet does the most to
impair it. Cooking is on its plane, through the develop-
ment of taste, what music and painting are on their planes
of expression, hence, becomes an art as taste advances.
Beauty in food is a great asset to health. Appetite is stimu-
lated through food, in the sense man, and the beauty of
food appeals to the soul, making eating more enjoyable
and more promotive of the natural harmony of the body.
One developing intelligence, so as to be in control of the
sense-appetites, eats under the authority of intelligence
and is not governed by sense-hunger. The sense of hunger
is often present through food stimulation or food poison-
ing, and is not a reliable guide. Excessive appetite not
only influences the digestive organism, but makes for un-
controlled soul forces that result in sensuality and greed.
Sensual desire also stimulates appetite and calls for food
and drink.
Harmonious, balanced meals, beautifully expressed,
best promote the natural health. Beauty and harmony
relate to foods, though health should not be sacrificed to
these expressions. Simple meals may promote harmony,
and one may supply the sense of beauty from the soul
rather than from the appearance of foods. Balanced meals,
harmoniously expressed, develop the sense of taste of the
soul and mental planes, as well as influence the harmony
of the physical plane. Harmoniously combined meals
give the alkaline result to the system rather than the acid.
The nature of the blood is alkaline. If it becomes over-
balanced with acidity, health is impaired. Impaired health
can often be traced to inharmonious mixtures of food.
Appetite occupies such an important place among those
promoting the sense man, that eating and cooking absorb
much of the attention of the people. The culinary arts
58 Spiritual Significance of the Body
should be improved, but the health result of eating should
be the dominant thought in the preparation of meals.
Few homes or public places of eating have given marked
attention to the combination of foods, or to variety of
foods. This subjects people to woes which are directly
traceable to their lack of intelligence respecting food. The
same breakfast, three hundred and sixty-five days of the
year, is a good example of the imposition of the body,
suffered through sameness of food. The body has its own
waste to take care of, resulting from deteriorations and
adjustments continually going on, without being encum-
bered with the waste of inharmonious foods, and exces-
sive food elements.
Controlled appetite involves control of will. Controlled
will is more important than taking mastery over food,
though it could not express in perfection without includ-
ing the control of appetite. The will is the governing im-
petus of the body, that which gives character to the flesh,
and motion to the impulses of intelligence. Will cannot
be controlled in other directions and appetite left uncon-
trolled, if one would attain mastery and power. The ego
is to come under the authority of the Divine Will, and this
is accomplished through controlling the will to the I. To
be guilty in one part, through uncontrolled will, is to be
guilty in all. This is to say that if will is left uncontrolled
in relation to appetite, the element of uncontrol is pres-
ent in the will, and its subjection to the I is impossible,
and the I's subjection to the Divine Will cannot follow.
"John the Baptist," with loins girded and living on lo-
custs and wild honey, is a figure in scripture of controlled
will, in relation to passion and appetite. This control
is necessary to prepare the way of the Lord, and to make
straight the path of spiritual unfoldment. The Lord is the
Divine Laws which must be set into action in the con-
sciousness, through fulfilling the law of sin relating to the
natural man. The natural man is the I, and all his forces
must be subjected to the inner Laws of Being (the Divine
Laws) to permit spiritual unfoldment and the govern-
ment of Divine Will to set up, by which the new creature
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 59
is brought forth. The will, controlled, is the body sub-
jected to the spiritual powers. Will, in connection with
either food or drink, must be subjected to the ego and held
in mastery, if one is to be considered eligible to enter into
the path of spiritual unfoldment. The self-will state of
man is not permitted to make close contact with the Prin-
ciples of Being, nor to partake of the qualities of spir-
ituality.
Controlled will, as respecting appetite, leads to con-
trolled taste and refined discrimination. Through con-
trolled will, the whole consciousness is subjected to the
Divine Laws, and is surrendered to the Divine Will. The
Divine Will is the redeemed will of man. Will is redeemed
through the operation of the Divine Laws that set up their
authority in the consciousness, bringing the ego under the
government of God. Redemption of will follows the con-
trol and mastery of its forces on the outer plane of living,
though this control relates to both passion and appetite.
The quickening of the Divine Will, at the dying down of
the self-will, is that by which the inspirations of the
Divine Mind enter the consciousness, and the ego begins
to eat of the Tree of Life.
As will is controlled, one's taste and discrimination
change, and substantiality of character is promoted. One
controls one's own destiny only through controlling the
will, though this also involves control on the plane of mind
and soul. One's likes and dislikes are governed by the
unfolding love and intelligence. It is through the opera-
tion of the will that choice is identified. The capacity of
joy, harmony, color, music, indicates the developed taste
and discrimination. Distinctive taste and discrimination
reveal themselves in ideas and speech, giving character to
consciousness, until one becomes original in thought and
words, expressing from one's own center of being. How-
ever, it is not until consciousness of Truth is gained that
one expresses perfectly from one's own center of being.
Eating is a primal function of consciousness. Govern-
mentally, the Right of Food is the first privilege of man.
The mystery of sin and duality relates to the transgression
60 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of the commandment, "Thou shalt not eat of it." This has
been associated with the sexual, and the eating of the
unfolding forces of love and life, through sexual copula-
tion. However, it is the Tree of Life in the midst of the
garden of consciousness that egos, involved in sense con-
sciousness, are forbidden to eat. This forbidding, in the
Law of Reversal that characterizes mortals, reacts to the
desire to eat of this Tree; though it is not until conscious-
ness is spiritually born that it can partake of the fruit
of Being.
A tree signifies the unfolding intelligence. The Tree of
Life is gained by dying to the knowledges developed in
the tree of good and evil. Dying is cessation, therefore one
must cease to eat of duality and enter into the capacity to
eat in oneness, if one is to gain the Tree of Life, and eat,
and live forever. Man is not expected to appropriate to
himself the Qualities of the Spirit, for the Divine Self is
the fruit of the Tree of Life. The violation of the com-
mandment, "Thou shalt not eat" led to adulteration of
living as well as eating. However, the adulteration repre-
sents the diversity of Infinite Intelligence. Through the
mixture of the Infinite qualities of Intelligence with the
forces of the world or unredeemed consciousness, form is
identified. Form is identity of consciousness, for there is
no formation of the essences of the Spirit without the
energies of matter and darkness. This is the mystery of
the disobedience of man, leading to the capacity to be
consciously formed, so as to become conscious of himself
as man. Mortals come into the Light of Truth through
having finished progression in darkness, and through
ceasing to eat of the dual tree of knowledge; though they
can only cease to eat when the forces of darkness are
known.
The "Thou shalt not drink," identified as a fiat of gov-
ernment at the end of mortality, was projected as a test
to unfolding consciousness. The violation of this fiat, in
connection with government, led to dissolution of ma-
teriality, though it also was brought to light through the
agitation that arose. The violation of the commandment,
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 61
"Thou shalt not eat," led to identification of form, while
the violation of the fiat, "Thou shalt not drink" led to dis-
solution of energies that had been formed. Eating and
drinking symbolize the land and water, respectively, of
the Creative allegory. The functioning by man of eating
and drinking, as well as the violation of laws set up con-
cerning these factors, hide the mysticism of forming and
unforming mortality; though the mysticism is in the Laws
that are at work behind the symbols.
The Tongue, as a servant to speech, relates to the spirit
of man. The mouth, the instrument by which speech is
expressed, signifies the opening of the Word in conscious-
ness. The mouth, through its beauty, is also related to
soul. "Cupid's mouth," affected by the feminine sex, sig-
nifies the awakening of consciousness of Beauty, though
Beauty really arises from the awakened spirit within.
Beauty, as a spirit, is within the soul of man, though mani-
fested particularly in relation to women, the soul principle
identified in form. Beauty is another name for the Woman
Principle. The Woman Principle is the Divine Love that
is one with the Man Principle, or Wisdom, the two being
the primal parents of consciousness.
The mouth, through its functioning of speech, gives ex-
pression to the character of one's intelligence and love.
It is also related to eating. Eating, in its spiritual sig-
nificance, is appropriation of spiritual ideas. When spir-
itual ideas have been appropriated by the ego and made
his own, as he would eat food, making it a part of his or-
ganism, one becomes in substance the essences of the
ideas known. The formation of the essences of the Word
is Truth, by which the reality of being is brought forth.
It is not the mouth but the heart that gives rise to the sub-
stantiality of being; it being the spiritual eating, not the
physical, that makes for the reality of being.
Tone is the combination of energies of sound, controlled
to intelligence, that give rise to musical notes. While
music is of the soul, it has its expression by means of tone
and speech. Words give character to tones, directly or in-
directly. This is to say that tones are interpreted by the
62 Spiritual Significance of the Body
intelligence, either within the mind or by means of words,
this giving character to their expression. Yet, tone can ex-
press without words but not without conveying to the
listener a mental picture of that registered by the soul.
Tone expresses according to the soul unfoldment, hence
the mortal thought that one expressing musically must
have experiences that develop the depths, as well as the
heights of feeling. This idea is also entertained in con-
nection with dramatic art, painting, and other expres-
sions where tone, word, and color combine to picture the
unfolding mind and soul.
Tone is of the spirit, soul, and mind of man, having
expression by means of body. Intelligence as its spirit,
love as its soul, unite as one to give expression to the
mental picture, tone arising at the point where sound is
formulated into intelligent expression. Tone is given out-
ward expression by means of the organs of speech, the
tongue and mouth serving in this function. One coordi-
nated in feeling and intelligence, and subjected in the
will (body) to the action of the Divine Will, speaks the
new tongue. Such a one gives expression to spiritual ideas
and the speech thus radiated becomes a light bearer to
all who can receive it; the spoken word being especially
fraught with the tone-qualities of the unfoldment of the
speaker. The written words are more mentally conveyed,
yet the ideas contained in them can silently voice the
qualities of the Spirit when words express in Truth.
The most common aspects of tone are words. Words are
the formulated energies of speech and are harmonious or
inharmonious in character. They are agents of light or
of darkness. The speech of the wise makes for life and
light, while the speech of the ignorant intensifies the dark-
ness already present. Egos emanate energies in words
according to the status of development, promoting the
mental, the psychic, and the spiritual. It is the develop-
ment of love, or the lack of it, that gives character to
words, endowing them with life or death. When words
convey the known Principles of Being, the Love and Wis-
dom of the Spirit are projected; giving to all who receive
Tongue: Taste, Tone, and Discrimination 63
them the opportunity to be opened in the Principles of
Being that made known the words. If one receives the
words of Truth one receives the Truth that produced the
words.
The mouth and the tongue, as organs of the Word's
expression, have both been debauched by mortals, low in
their development. The mouth, being the mental and
spiritual aspects of the Word's expression, counterparts
the sexual organs that represent the physical and psychical
aspects of expression. Sensuality, associated with the
mouth, in relation to exchanges of men and women, arises
from the realm of hell that is below the consciousness of
mortals as the subconscious plane. All unregenerated
forces clamor for expression, and when development of
intelligence and love does not permit their control, they
control egos and give rise to iniquitous expressions, both
in words and sexual acts. When the lie dominates the
creature, the natural uses of the organs of the body are
made unnatural; those so functioning becoming the seat
of hell in the last day, as well as the residue of adulteration
and degeneration that is gathered for dissolution at the
end of the cycle.
The Tongue, as a four-fold organ, signifies the fourth
dimensional ego. This is one united in spirit, soul, mind,
and body in the Laws of Being (Lord). Conservation of
words, discrimination as to thought, feeling, and act,
development of refined taste in its many modes of expres-
sion, all relate to the sense of taste, and to the tongue,
when spiritually discerned. It is not the perfection of the
physical organism that makes for perfected conscious-
ness; but the attainment of the spirit of perfection on the
natural plane opens the Principle of Perfection from
within, by which the fourth-dimensional ego is identified.
The form of the organism is inherent in the Laws of
Creation that produced man. The qualities that enter into
the formed organism, through perfecting consciousness,
make it a suitable vehicle by which the Perfection of Prin-
ciples of Being may be expressed. The Perfection of the
Principles, expressing by means of the symbolical organ-
64 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ism, operates to produce reality of being, which is the ego
in the fourth-dimensional state. This ego is the Word
made flesh, the vehicle by which the Word and its Quali-
ties can perfectly express. Such an ego is the mouth of
the Word made manifest, that is, the outlet by which the
united Wisdom and Love can form the bodies of those
attuned to these parental qualities.
All the perfections gained on the physical plane, in
relation to any phase of consciousness, are for the purpose
of permitting the Divine Perfection to express. It is not
that man can have a perfect physical tongue, for example,
but that what the tongue signifies can be perfectly
expressed. This would be taste, discrimination, speech,
language, reaching heights of expression on the natural
plane. The Principles of Being make connection with the
perfected natural forces, and the realities of being are
brought forth; not as through man's will and desire, but
as through the operation of the Divine Will.
MEDITATION
Taste and appetite are now controlled in judgment and
intelligence.
I know to eat, drink, think, and speak in keeping with
Divine Wisdom and Love.
I rejoice in unfolding discrimination, in controlled will
and speech.
NOSTRILS: THE BREATH OF LIFE:
DISCERNMENT
T
HE Nostrils represent the inspiring functions of
consciousness. Through the inspiring functions,
they relate to the Breath of Life, spiritually, and
to the lungs, physically. It is written in the record of the
Laws governing the unfoldment of Man, that God breathed
into the nostrils and man became a living soul. It is the
inbreathing of the Spirit that opens consciousness to life,
and identifies the quality of discernment.
A living soul is one quickened in the qualities of human
love and intelligence. An ego, whose inspirations and
aspirations have made for receptivity to the Inner Spirit,
receives the Breath of Life, this being the reality of the
inbreathing of God into the nostrils. The Breath of Life
is called the Holy Breath. The Holy Breath is a name
applied to the Holy Spirit, the influxing energies of Divine
Wisdom and Love, by which Life is identified, and con-
scious consciousness of being is gained. It is through this
action of God in the consciousness that the ego discerns
the reality of his-her own being, and the relation of God
and Man.
The inspiration and aspiration of consciousness are
physically expressed by means of the lungs. They have
their physical functioning as the inspiration and expira-
tion of the breath; the receiving in and the giving out of
the essence of Life. However, spiritually, the receiving
signifies the capacity of consciousness to be impressed by
the inspirations of the Almighty, that giveth understand-
ing; and the giving out is the capacity to utter, by means
of words, the intelligences conveyed. It is the connection
with the Holy Spirit within that makes consciousness
aspire toward manifesting the reality of being; that is, to
actually be the Real Man that was idealized in the Cre-
ation.
The Nostrils pertain to the sense of smell. This sense
[65]
66 Spiritual Significance of the Body
is so closely related to taste as to often be impossible of
differentiation, though it is taste that pivots the sensations
of energies rather than smell. Smell is a sensitiveness
on the natural plane to the energies set into motion, hence,
smell has its intimate relation to sound and its emanating
energies. Sound is the motion of light on the interior
plane of consciousness, but smell is the consciousness of
energies, set into action through sound, this arrangement
identifying the Law of Reversal on the plane of soul con-
sciousness.
Seeing is the sensitiveness of consciousness to light,
while hearing is the motion of the energies of light. Tast-
ing is the motion of energies in soul, while smelling is
sensitiveness to the motion of energies of taste. Sound,
the emanating energies of light or intelligence, identifies
hearing as its spiritual function, and smelling as its
physical function. However, smelling and tasting are
so at-one that they are discerned as one by the conscious-
ness. The smelling of odors of foods develops the desire
in the soul to taste what is smelt. Those who cook foods
are often greatly satisfied from the odors that arise, a little
tasting and much smelling satisfying the desire for food.
The more highly progressed consciousness of man, iden-
tified in fourth-dimensional function, will satisfy desire
for nourishment more from smelling than from tasting;
though he himself will be penetrated by the ethers and
energies of the kosmos, so as to be sustained by the uni-
versal rather than by the individual motion of energies.
The fourth-dimensional consciousness will function smell-
ing as the inbreathing of the qualities of the Word.
The Nostrils, two in number, pertain to the duality of
forces that characterizes the natural plane of expression.
The two are the means by which the oneness of the inner
qualities are increased and multiplied. The two are the
agents of the one to produce formation or tangibility.
The One, and its Qualities, would remain invisible and
unformed, without the agency of two. The One in the
Creation is God, though the identification of the One is
Christ. Both God and Christ are invisible Principles and
Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment 67
Qualities, though they have their visibility by means of
Man. Man, when he really is, is the consciousness of the
Principles and Qualities of God and Christ, therefore Man
is spiritual when he is really manifested.
Man has his process of formation by means of the five
senses. This is the natural plane of consciousness that
is progressed first, for "that is not first that is spiritual,
but that which is natural; then that which is spiritual."
The spiritual has its inception at the translation of the
forces, energies, and qualities promoted by the five senses,
though this is the mental result, by which is the spiritual.
The mental is the "John the Baptist" consciousness that
goes before, by which the Laws of Being (Lord) can be
set into operation to reveal the spiritual state of being.
The mentality is identified by turning away from the tes-
timony of the senses, this resulting in the gaining of the
symbolical "living soul" or self-consciousness. The death
of the gained self-consciousness opens the way for the
identification of the spiritual state of being.
When the mentality of consciousness permits, through
controlled thought, feeling, word, and action, the Spirit of
the Almighty moves in the ego, and the inspirations of
genuine intelligence are liberated. When one conforms
in outer activity of thought, word, feeling, and action to
these inspirations, one becomes a genuine living soul. The
living soul is the perfected self-consciousness, identified
in united understanding and will. This is the humanity
of consciousness in which the divinity, or Son of God, can
open to identify the living spiri( The gained humanity
of consciousness is the Son of Man. However, the
humanity that counterparts the divinity cannot be gained
until the self-consciousness, perfected in mentality, has
surrendered to the understanding and will of the Spirit,
unfolding its spiritual inspirations. The living soul is an
identification of conscious life, having its centralization of
forces in the chest region, and distinctly relating to the
lungs and heart.
The lungs relate to the spiritual pole of man's nature,
and the heart to the physical, in relation to the nostrils.
68 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The lungs function the breath and the heart is the dis-
tributing center for the emanated energies that liquefy,
signifying the formation of spiritual qualities as the soul
nature. The soul pertains to the water principle, and has
its identification in the chest region. As from the forma-
tion of consciousness from within, the lungs typify the
energies of the Spirit while the heart is the formation of
these energies. 'The outer heart that is coupled with the
lungs, as the vital organs, is the distributive center through
which the emanated energies, inspired in consciousness by
the Spirit of the Almighty, give conscious life to the
organism.
The dissemination of the Holy Spirit is through spir-
itual inspiration, and results in the capacity to perceive
and to conceive the intelligence and love of the Almighty.
This dissemination is physically identified as the breath.
When the Spirit inbreathes, all the respiratory organs are
quickened, even as under emotional stress the heart may
be affected. This quickening is equivalent on the spiritual
plane of birth to the quickening of the foetus that occurs
in the wombs of women, when conscious life is identified.
Since it is at the quickening of the foetus that conscious
life is identified, in relation to material birth, it is at the
spiritual quickening, at the movement of the Holy Breath
within, that conscious spiritual life and spiritual birth are
identified.
The fluxing in of the inspirations of the Holy Spirit
(Almighty) demands a fluxing out, hence, there is inspira-
tion and expiration. The dual aspect of the Word's action
pivots to the lungs and gives identity to breathing, yet,
the outfluxing is through the nostrils. That the nostrils
also identify the mental power of discernment, shows the
intimate relation of the spiritual and the mental domains.
This intimacy is joined with the physical, through the
sense of smell, odors good or evil, likeable or dislikeable,
being discerned by means of the mental faculties con-
trolling the nostrils. One may even become "nosey" when
over developed in the sense of discernment, the mental
faculty that underlies smelling.
Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment 69
There is a universal dissemination of the Holy Spirit
at the ends of cycles, by which the entire race comes under
the Divine Laws, from the individual governed by these
Laws. Every cycle has its messenger, the pivotal center
of the Word, through which the Qualities of Being pro-
gressed are disseminated into the race. This universal
action of God, witnessed the last cycle by the writer, gives
rise to the capacity to smell the original essences of Cre-
ation; the heavenly essences manifesting as the aromas,
and the hellish elements as the odor of brimstone, putre-
faction and decay, that directly relates to the abode of hell.
The movement of the Creative Force is as a 'breath, a
fluxing in and a fluxing out of energies that pertain to the
Qualities of Being, and their governing Laws. These
Qualities may be felt as electric-magnetic forces that
unform and form both the spiritual and physical energies,
by which a new state of man and of the universe is
revealed.
Mystically, the sense of smell may become very acute.
This is to say, that when the sense consciousness is stimu-
lated at the end of the cycle, because of the projection of
the Holy Spirit into the natural domain, the aromas of
the invisible worlds, both heavenly and hellish, may be
mystically discerned. The writer has smelt and tasted
death in this mystical experience, as well as experienced
it, both physically and spiritually. She has also discerned
(smelled) other odors relating to the chemistry of the
dying organism of man and the universe. These odors
arise from the "wrath of the Lamb" that produces the fire
that burns up the world, this involving alchemical changes
that can be spiritually discerned by one in conscious
knowledge of the Laws of God, governing this process of
transformation and translation. The "sweet savor" of
the Lord can be discerned also, and the ecstasies of the
Spirit felt.
The Nostrils, as to their physical identity, partake of
the inner characteristics of the ego. There are many kinds
of noses, with their forms and nostrils giving character
or lack of it to the face, indicating the developed discern-
70 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ment of man. The olfactory nerve is the messenger of
the sense of smell. Unlike the ear, that hears because of
dry membranes, the sense of smell is dependent upon a
moist membrane in the nostrils. The sinuses, relating to
the nose, must be in good condition, to accommodate the
circulation of air in the skull cavities, as well as to func-
tion smell properly. The circulation of the air and breath
is important to the health of the organs relating. The
inflammation of the membranes of the nostril cavities is
called "colds," this being nature's method of throwing off
waste that is not properly distributed and eliminated.
The intimate physical connection of the eyes, ears, and
throat, indicates the condition of the sinuses and tonsils
and other coordinating glands; the same intimacy being
present physically in relation to these organs as is present
spiritually.
Lower animals are greatly governed by scent, giving rise
to instinct. The sense of smell can be impaired in man
without iµipairing the vital functions of life, for man does
not live by instinct, but by intelligence. The instinct of
animals, especially the wild animals, functioned by means
of smell, to a considerable degree, determines their food
intake. The domesticated animals partake of the nature
of man's controlled animal forces, and are greatly pro-
vided for through his intelligent cooperation. Man is not
so sensitive as to scents and odors as are the lower ani-
mals, because no longer dependent upon this function as
a means of protection, or of promoting the natural life.
The Indians, representing primitive man, have a much
greater degree of smell, it aiding in promoting and pro-
tecting their lives. Living closer to nature, they partake
more closely of this natural instinct; though the Indians
of our day have been educated and developed above the
primitive desires and instincts.
Smell has its highest delight in the attars of perfumes
to which the soul responds, though the odors of foods
give physical delight. On the spiritual plane of unfold-
ment, smell is one with the inspirations of the Spirit that
flood the soul, when intelligence and love permit, this giv-
Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment 71
ing rise to a quickening in the nostrils that resurrects the
"Lost City" of consciousness, as well as odors of an
ethereal nature. The "Lost City" is the center of spiritual
inspiration and is located in the nostrils, a little below
the middle of the eyes. One can discern the influx of
cosmical forces and the outflux of the Creative forces from
this center, this whorl of forces being the identification of
the Creative Whorl, in its two-fold operation, by which
God makes universal man (race) and the universe.
Smoking, relating to the nostrils, is significant of the
fires of hell that centralize to the lost region of conscious-
ness, that is, to the subconsciousness and that which is be-
low. The issuing of smoke from the nostrils, present in
smoking, is the manifest figure of the fires of hell that
arose at the identification of consciousness. This fire has
its actual symbol in the chemical odors that arise at the
movement of the Divine Spirit in consciousness, for im-
mediately the motion of the Spirit is felt in consciousness
the forces adverse to the Spirit arise. These adverse
forces make up the Adversary, which is the devil that has
its abode in hell. Hell is the forces of chaos progressed,
so as to set up their motion in adverse relation to the mo-
tion of the Forces of the Spirit. Hell is opposite to
Heaven, the two being co-eternal centers, utilized as
means of bringing forth the reality of being.
The smoking from the nostrils is significant of the uni-
versal fire that burns up the world at the end of Time,
though this fire is kindled in the "wrath of the Lamb,"
and not by men and women who smoke. That both men
and women have been coupled in this burning and smok-
ing the last quarter of a century, is significant to one who
understands the symbology of Creative Principles, rep-
resenting a condition at the end of Time equivalent to the
beginning of Time; only in the beginning it was a spiritual
fire that moved to promote the sexes, and at the end it is
a material fire that brings them to material equality.
Females, governed by the males throughout Time, take
on the standards developed in mortality instead of up-
holding the spirilual standards; this characterizing women
72 Spiritual Significance of the Body
who make themselves equal to men, materially, by taking
on the licentiousness of the senses.
Smoking materializes the energies of consciousness and
makes one less sensitive to the finer feelings that issue
from the Spirit. Smoking acts as a sedative, from a
natural standpoint, dulling the sensibilities. This may
prevent some suffering on the plane of the senses, but it
also prevents refinement that results from suffering.
Smoking is a sedative to the soul forces, as well as to the
forces of the flesh, people resorting to it in times of mental
and emotional stress. It can never furnish the aroma
that will delight the human soul, but pertains purely to
mortal development that dulls itself to sleep, instead of
suffering the keenness of forces that makes for mental
and soul quickening. Physically, smoking may produce
inharmonies of the throat and the sensitive tissues of the
nostrils, which culminate as diseases.
The use of drugs, by smoking, is an attempt of the self-
consciousness to delve into the inner and hidden realms
without having attained to conscious intelligence. It is
common to egos, identified in animal soul, who seek
added delights of a perverted nature. The use of opiates,
however administered, when consciously resorted to by
those who delight in the animality of nature, is an in-
tensified form of perversion and debauchery, opening the
egos indulging in the forces of the subconscious for the
purpose of enjoying their sensations. These sensations
open to one when in a semi-conscious state, the use of
the drug inducing sufficient coma to permit the revelling
of the forces on the subconscious plane. The use of these
kinds of drugs debases the mind, degrades the soul, destroys
the will, and prevents the influx of the intelligence of the
Spirit through annulling the exercise of the natural in-
telligence, thus bringing the whole consciousness to con-
fusion and chaos.
Discernment, the mental aspect of the nostrils, is a
necessary factor of growth. It is the means by which egos,
identified in the forces of good and evil, may promote their
greatest growth by choosing the highest and best. It en-
Nostrils: The Breath of Life: Discernment 73
ables one to learn by the experiences of others, furnish-
ing an alertness of action that is all-around promotive of
physical well-being. The physical should be governed by
the mental. When an ego is mentally advanced enough
to permit it, the physical activities and forces of environ-
ment should come under the authority of consciously
expressed intelligence. Man is not a slave, but is expected
to master himself and the forces relating to his environ-
ment. This mastery will permit the ego to eventually
unite with the spiritual powers within the consciousness,
by which the inspiration of the Almighty gives one under-
standing of all things.
It is the inner quality of smell that is important to the
ego. This is the inspiration of the Spirit by which men-
tality is made alive, and the physical expression comes
to be scientifically governed. To feel the "sweet savor"
of the Lord (Divine Laws) penetrate the nostrils, and to
smell the aroma of the heavenly domain, recognizing in
this the penetration of the consciousness by the Divine
Powers, is to be made alive in a real way. Being made
alive, the Holy Breath can purify and redeem the con-
sciousness, establishing one in newness of life and being.
When the Spirit quickens the nostrils of man and one has
become a living soul, then the dominancy of the mental
is set up; by which preparation is made for the supremacy
of the Spirit and its governing laws. This supremacy
makes man a living spirit, subject to Divine Love, by
which man is spiritually born, and revealed in reality of
being.
MEDITATION
I am established in the inspiration of the Mind of the
Spirit.
I am a living soul because I am inspired to express the
Qualities of the Real Self.
The free-flowing Breath of Life is active in conscious··
ness, fashioning the real state of being.
TOUCH: EMOTION AND SOUL ACTIVITY
T OUCH is a mystical sense, relating to spirit, soul,
mind, and body. The mysticism of Touch is re-
vealed when it is attended with emotional and soul
activity. It is the feeling nature, though this nature is
something more than that present when physical contact
is made with outer objects. It is the inner sense of Touch
that gives warmth to life and living.
Touch, as one of the five senses, is located in the skin,
tongue, lips, though present because of the sensory-cere-
bral nerves. Physically, touch is of the nerves, having
varying expressions in different parts of the body accord-
ing to the grouping of the nerves. The sensory nerves
exposed on the surface of the body produce pain; though
certain contacts may by the same nerves produce pleasure.
Touch is four-fold in nature, arising from the four de-
partments of consciousness.
Touch gives rise to feeling, when related to the soul,
yet, paradoxically, it is soul that gives rise to feeling. Even
as the mental qualities promote the brain, and the brain
in turn promotes the mental qualities, so is the relation
of the soul and feeling. Feeling is two-fold in expression,
that relating to emotional contact, and that relating to
physical contact. One may be touched in the soul by what
sight conveys to the mind, or by what hearing conveys.
One may be touched by what is thought, or by what one
physically feels.
The feeling that arises because of the activity of soul
forces is called emotion. Emotion is both pleasurable
and painful. Emotion is particularly grouped under love
and hate, and their aspects of expression. Pleasure, joy,
fun, ecstasy, kindness, delight, surprise, anticipation, and
kindred feelings of a pleasurable nature, have their is-
suance from the Principle of Love. Every Principle is re-
versed on the plane of the material, therefore, hate and
its aspects bring sorrow instead of joy; though people of
[74]
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity 75
a hateful nature may get a certain enjoyment out of the
expression of evil forces. This is a perverted enjoyment
because of a nature reversed to the Laws of Harmony that
are to govern the righteous expression of Man. Hate
brings bitterness to the soul, and burns up the mentaJ
energies, making for chaos and disorder.
Emotion is grouped either as attraction or repulsion.
That is attractive that gives pleasure, and that is repulsive
that makes for inharmony and woe. Emotion is func-
tioned by means of sensation, it having its inception in
the mind. Sensations, as energies, carry over to the body
by means of the sensory-cerebral nerves, though this
energy is more easily recognized as pain and painful con•
ditions identified on the physical plane. Emotions are
felt in the soul and make for inner satisfaction or dis-
satisfaction, influencing the outer life by means of mentaJ
deductions and physical sensations. When the ego is suf-
ficiently advanced in intelligence, one can control the
emotions, this being one aspect of controlling will to
understanding; for emotions are the will or motion of
mental forces thought and felt.
All the senses relate to touch. Touch is the agent of
sensation, when seen as a function. Seeing is the sensa-
tion of light functioning, hearing is the sensation of sound
functioning; while smelling is the sensation of emitting
energies that produce odors. Tasting is the sensation
of energies contacted by the tongue, when physically iden-
tified, or by the soul, when functioned in its esthetic
sense. Tasting is pleasurable or not, according as the
energies tasted are combined. Sensation is the means by
which knowledge is developed on the mortal plane. One
grows by sensations, living in the senses before mentality
is unfolded.
Primarily, growth is promoted by emotions, man know-
ing only what he has felt. Though paradoxically, what
·he has felt becomes what his intelligence named it, all
diseases having arisen in this manner. "And whatever
man called every living creature, that was the name
thereof." The "living creatures," primarily referred to,
76 Spiritual Significance of the Body
are the sensations of energies of Light, emanated by
Divine Intelligence into consciousness. Ultimately, one
grows by controlling the emotions, though it is spiritual
knowledge that enables consciousness to take dominion
over the will of the self-man, and to permit the opening
of the action of the Divine Spirit; by which one gains
Wisdom and Love. Animal man, living in the might
and power of brute-strength, responds to sensations as
they register on the soul or emotional plane, or as they
register on the plane of mind. Emotions are kindled from
the mental forces, as well as being the means by which
mental forces are kindled.
It is what one feels that gives character to the con-
sciousness. It is what touches the consciousness, soul-
fully, that makes impressions for good or ill. It is the
inner plane of touch that promotes the nature of man.
Suffering on the outer plane or the plane of the physical,
because of sickness or death, or because of mental agony
or antagonism, promotes the feeling nature, but it is the
feeling that gives character to growth and not the condi-
tions experienced. Conditions affect the life only in the
forces they promote. The forces promoted are mentally
cognized, the developed understanding or the lack of it,
giving character to what is felt. The control of the feel-
ing nature is one with the control of the mental nature,
this preparing the way for the unfoldment of Wisdom,
by which Divine Love is felt. It is the feeling of Divine
Love, the quickening it introduces into the consciousness,
that translates the organism and transforms the nature of
man. This is symbolically, reflected on the plane of
material evolution by the translating effects arising from
the love of the senses.
Mentally, it is what one feels that gives character to the
ideas expressed. Ideas that are not felt are not really
known, but only exist as opinions or beliefs. The feeling
of ideas is two-fold, that which arises on the plane of the
soul at their contemplation, and that which is physically
experienced at the time of their application to the outer
domains. It is the experience of the outer feelings that
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity 77
makes for the actuality of the ideas, and by which their
embodiment is effected. It is not what one thinks that
changes the physical nature of man, but what is felt.
When understanding and will are united as one, all think-
ing has a transforming effect upon the physical organism.
Thus it is written, "Be ye transformed (changed in form)
by the renewing of the mind."
Controlled emotions and feelings mean controlled
thoughts, words, and actions. It means honor of conduct
and poise of bearing. One is expected to feel intensely,
but to be in complete mental control of the feeling. Peo-
ple who do not feel remain undeveloped mentally. The
knowing of this fact does not sanction their plunging into
gayety of "high living" in order to promote the capacity
to feel. Any activity that is greedily sought, or intensely
promoted, is not the natural procedure of living that
makes for poise and worth. Life is an opportunity to
think and to feel, to not think or not feel, in control, ac-
cording as the conditions present themselves. One can
always protect oneself from discordant influences by re-
fusing to think upon them. This is the duty of the mate-
rially advancing and may account for their slowness to
think; but when consciousness is not able to cope with the
forces of evil it is not permitted to think upon them. This
prevents consciousness becoming involved ~n forces over
which it has no control, and which might plunge the ego
into chaos and insanity.
The sense of Touch, identifying by means of feeling,
when related to soul, gives rise to temperament, temper,
temperature, and other modes of expression. The crim-
inally inclined fail to feel, or feel too intensely in the
direction of evil forces so as to become unbalanced. The
greedy may be as unfeeling as the criminally inclined.
Wherever feeling is not developed there is lack of soul
unfoldment, which obstructs the unfoldment of mentality.
Lack of soul reacts to lack of mentality on one side, and
to lack of will on the other. The criminally inclined,
representing the lower states of unfolding consciousness,
when criminally dealt with, are thrown more into the
78 Spiritual Significance of the Body
current of confusion and woe, this adding to the crim-
inality of an unfolding race.
Capital punishment is the disruption of these organisms
of consciousness, in violent death, this causing the forces
aggregated as various forms of evil and ignorance to be
projected into the race mind, where they are picked-up
by those in attunement with them; this also aiding in
promoting another crop of criminals. These forces of
darkness progress with the forces of light, but respon-
sibility for the darkness is in those advancing in the light;
therefore the inhuman conduct imposed upon the lesser
advanced by the greater advanced is a virulent form of
self-righteousness that must be reckoned with at the ends
of cycles. All must render an accounting at the end of
mortality to the Divine Laws that are progressing con-
sciousness of Man toward the attainment of the image
and likeness of God.
People deprived of the expression of any of the five
senses in one direction are often compensated in other
directions. The development of the sense of touch to the
blind is especially marked, though the deaf also share in
this compensation. Because touch relates to feeling, and
feeling is the energy of sensation that relates to all the
senses, egos deprived of one form of its expression may
have it increased in other directions. When one aspect
of the senses is cut off, the counterparting one is in-
creased in its powers of expression, this giving compensa-
tion to the one afflicted. The deaf are now enabled to
hear through a mechanism that intensifies and reproduces
sound, through contacting the skin; this also giving rise
to capacity to express sound as speech, where dumbness
is present with deafness. The skin, the physical center
of touch, being that which encompasses the organism as
an outer covering, is in direct relation to sound, the prin-
ciple of form, hence the "coat of skins" put on by primitive
man.
The skin is the result of the emanating intelligence, it
clothing the organism like a garment clothes the body. It
is the outer aspect of Wisdom, though mortal man instead
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity 79
of clothing consciousness with Wisdom put on a "coat of
skins." The skin is a protecting covering to the sensitive
organism, having two layers, the outer being without
sensation. The skin is a distinct center of touch, when its
outer coat is penetrated, though it is also the conveyer of
beauty and emotions. The emotional outlet of the skin
is functioned by the lips and the generative organs,
though the function of the latter is distinctly identified
in relation to the sense of touch. The lips are the means
by which the emotions of the soul are exchanged, though
this may express in beauty and harmony, or in sensuality,
according to the motive of emanating intelligence.
The law of compensation, as well as the law of retribu-
tion, applies in many ways to the unfolding consciousness
of the natural man. A blind person may be a musical
genius, or a deaf person function sound in a more soulful
way. The capacity to know through the finger tips, com-
mon to the blind, and the reading of lips, common to the
deaf, are interchanges of the functions of sight and hear-
ing that compensate those in whom there is not a perfect
balance. Lack of balance in the senses and their functions
may be due to the law of retribution, that brings to cessa-
tion and chaos any force of consciousness that is exces-
sively active or stimulated. When the sense of sight is cut
off, the energies relating to the eyes are directed to the
fingers, this making more sensitive the sense of touch. It
is not unusual for one sense to become extremely acute in
the absence of another. To be deaf, dumb, and blind, is
to segregate the qualities relating, to the sense of touch,
and to compensate the consciousness in some other way ;
especially when the advancement of the intelligence per-
mits it.
Emotion distinguishes man from the animals. Animals
have feeling which functions as instinct, but they do not
have emotions as has man. The emotions of man function
by means of the mentality. Animals are without men-
tality, though they have an emotional sense resting upon
instinctive feeling, as evidenced by a cow's yearning for
her calf when it is taken from her. But having no memory,
80 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the yearning passes, later contact with the calf bringing no
recognition. A dog that is whipped registers feeling that
may later give different character to his actions, but this
does not imply that the dog has mind by which to function
memory and resentment.
Instinctive emotional sense and feeling characterize
brutes, and in man, not developed on the mental plane,
these forces may be of no higher nature than the animals.
It is the expression of low forms of emotions and feelings
that shows the instinctive progression of mankind. It
requires considerable mental advancement for one to be
untouched by the lower emotional forces. Therefore,
those of low mental trend are not expected to have emo-
tional control. These must be safeguarded in whatever
manner possible, according to the conditions presented,
for those more advanced must carry the burden of the
lesser advanced, dealing with them in human ways; if
the inhuman instincts of the lowly progressed are to be
held in check. Inhuman consideration expressed toward
those of inhuman tendencies is not capable of correcting
the conditions, nor of promoting harmony; for under an
exact fiat of Divine Law, everything increases and brings
forth after its kind, according to the dominant feeling
relating. Controlled emotions always make for advanced
intelligence; even as controlled intelligence makes for
controlled emotions.
Hard-hearted people advance the least and suffer less,
though all forces progressed in a given direction, in the
world of duality, will eventually react to the opposite pole
of themselves. This is to say that a hard-hearted person
will be made to suffer enough, eventually, to become soft-
hearted. Contrariwise, a soft-hearted person will come to
the point where to harden the heart is a virtue, and a
balancing measure by which consciousness can be more
harmoniously developed. Any tendency, excessively de-
veloped, will react to one of an opposite nature. The
greedy become poor, the poor may become greedy. Bal-
ance is always to be sought in this world of duality, in
which the two factors of progression, good and evil, in
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity 81
their various modes of expression, are both mastered as
to intelligence and emotion.
Intelligence, the emanating energy of light, produces
sound, and sound in turn forms itself as soul energies,
giving rise to feeling. Thus a connection is formed be-
tween seeing and hearing that gives rise to the sense of
touch. Discrimination and discernment arise in the midst
of this emanation, enabling consciousness to discern be-
tween the light and darkness, the good and evil, this giving
rise to the sense of taste and to the sense of smell. It is
at the point where discrimination and discernment arise
that one is considered sane. This is to know the difference
between right and wrong, when seen in its primitive inter-
pretation. This primitive interpretation is still used in
courts, regardless of the many complications of sensations
that necessarily relate to a race at the end of its material
evolution. The development of a factor of consciousness
in one direction is its development in all directions, as
well as the development of one of the senses is the auto-
matic development of all the senses.
One is never more advanced than is the character of the
developed feeling. It is feeling that gives capacity to the
mentality, the means by which one thinks and knows. An
unfeeling person may attain to knowledge, but it is ritual-
istic and unreal, having no actual adaptation to the life and
affairs. It is to say that one's Wisdom is never of a greater
quality than is one's developed Love; even as one's Love
is never of a greater quality than is one's developed
intelligence. Light and its emanation, otherwise desig-
nated Seeing and Hearing, fundamentally govern the con-
sciousness; but as from the inner domains and not from
the outer plane. On the outer plane, identified experiences
and conditions that promote feeling and thought, have an
influence upon the inner, even as the inner influences the
outer. This is because "Heaven and Earth," or the un-
formed and the formed planes of forces, were created
in one action of the Divine Mind. Even so, they are both
affected by the activities of consciousness, functioned by
means of the senses.
82 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The sense of Touch also relates to the objective world.
It embraces size, form, weight, measurement, judgment,
etc. It is both subjective and objective in its functioning,
relating to the inner planes of consciousness and to the
outer conditions of living. No other factor has such an
influence upon living as the sense of touch, when meas-
ured by feeling. Feeling is the totality of living, though
after one has learned to feel intensely on the mortal plane,
one must cease to feel, mastering the feeling to the under-
standing arising on the plane of mind. When feeling is
mentally mastered, so that one is in control, one invites
a higher intelligence, and a higher feeling is set into ac-
tion. The united intelligence and feeling give rise to
united Understanding and Will, this opening the con-
sciousness to function Wisdom and Love, the inner cor-
respondences of Understanding and Will.
Feeling ultimates in Love known. Yet, the feeling at-
tending the promotion of mortal love must come to cessa-
tion before genuine Love can be known. Love is not a
sensation or an emotion, but a Principle. This is not to
say that it is void of feeling, but that when genuinely
operative it is one with Wisdom; one with the emanated
energies issuing from the Creative Laws underlying the
consciousness, and not from the sensations of the flesh.
Divine Love restores consciousness to the Edenic bliss,
from which it was separated when man became lost in
the sensations of the senses and set up the law of sexual
love, which is the law of sin and death.
The serpent of scriptural fame is a name applied to
sensation arising on the plane of the flesh, when intel-
ligence went out to form itself. The Woman, associated
with the serpent, is the pure soul quality that is mixed
with the sensations of the flesh on the plane of mortality.
Jehovah God, that oversees consciousness, and from
which consciousness hides when influenced by the ser-
pent, is the emanated energies (will) of the Spirit that
should control man. This control is set up when the ego
masters the emotions and feelings, developed in mortality,
being untouched by the material forces. The man, also
Touch: Emotion and Soul Activity 83
associated with the Woman, in relation to this scriptural
allegory, is the mental energies, set into motion when
emotion is set up; the man partaking of that given by the
Woman, according to the allegory. It is seen that spirit,
soul, mind, and body (will) became involved, in their
forces, in the sensations of making mortal man. It fol-
lows, when the mortal is untouched by any of the forces
of these four planes, as they have been developed in the
sensations of the flesh, that one can be touched by the
Inner Laws of Being; and opened to their action (Divine
Love), by which the immortal man is revealed and pro-
moted.
The mastery of the serpent by the Woman, in consort
with redeemed man or principle of mind, as set forth in
the last chapter of the Bible, is a reversal of the condition
incidental to progression in Time, as set forth in Genesis.
At the beginning of the Adamic era, the woman and the
serpent are arrayed against the Lord Principle and the
man; while at the end the Woman and the Lord Principle
are arrayed against the serpent and the lower elements
of man; though the higher elements of man, as "Michael,"
are coordinated with the woman in repulsion to the ser-
pent that is to be brought to chaos and dissolution. The
serpent has its universal aspect as the materialized forces
of thought and feeling. These are arrayed against the
Wisdom (Male) and Love (Female) of the Creative Laws
by which the New Order in the Ages is identified.
It is the soul that is lost. The soul is the emanated en-
ergies of intelligence that are lost in material thought
and will. The lost soul is found at the end of mortality,
but materially arises in the mortal element as greed,
licentiousness, harlotry of forces. This is the animal man,
the beast of nature asserting itself. But, oppositely to this
current of force, the spiritual qualities control those dead
to the enticements of the fleshly sensations; these be-
coming the living souls, by which the living spirits are
identified. The first man, Adam, a living soul, is swal-
lowed-up by the second Adam, a life-giving spirit. Man,
when he is actually identified, is not an organism of emo-
84 Spiritual Significance of the Body
tional forces and sensations, but is a consciousness identi-
fied in controlled intelligence and feeling.
Controlled intelligence and feeling, as they have oper-
ated on the mortal plane, give rise to Wisdom and Love,
these characterizing Man in his-her real nature. This is
Man from whom the curse of making himself or herself
has been removed, as well as a consciousness established
iii which sin, sickness, sorrow, and death will be known
no more. The glorious destiny of man is to transcend the
animality of the five senses, and to be spiritually born,
by which the body of reality can be revealed. This body
will be dead-white in its appearance, though expressing
beauty of complexion. It will be under the government
of the Divine Will and be sensationless. This is not to say
that man so premised will be without feeling, but that the
bodily organism will not be subject to sensations arising
from the five sense plane. It will be the form of being and
will function the ecstasy of Divine Love and the harmonies
of the Divine Laws. The manifestation of this body
embraces the understanding of the present organism of
consciousness, physically, as well as spiritually; and is
attended with the control of the mentality, by which is the
supremacy of spirituality.
MEDITATION
I am poised in Mind, and emotionally controlled.
I am conserved in thought and feeling, established in
united Understanding and Will.
I touch all things in Truth, and control all things in
Divine Love.
HAIR AND BEAUTY
H
AIR pertains to animality of consciousness in its
relation to the mortal, though its ascending
forces pertain to Beauty. Hair relates to the
sensations of the flesh at its low point, and to beauty at its
high point. Animals are covered with hair, called fur,
while Man, though made to function the animal forces
and to master them, is greatly free from hair; except as
an aid to beauty and protection. The male is generally
more hairy than the female, because more directly re-
lated to the sensuality of animality.
The beauty of hair associates itself with the head. A
bald-headed race would not be beautiful. Hair on other
parts of the body is a wise provision of nature, in service
to the animal-man, as well as accenting the relation he
still bears to the beast. The desire to eliminate hair from
under the arms, from the legs, to pluck the eyebrows, in
favor of beauty, is the attempt of Beauty to enthrone her-
self: it symbolizes the desire to separate man from the
bestial nature and to set the body free from the bondage
of that nature. This separation, however, must come
through beauty of soul, mind, and spirit; these combining
to subject the will of nature, and to reveal man as a new
creature, freed from the characteristics of the beast.
The clothing of women, especially, with the skins of
animals, the last half-century, is the symbol, revealed at
the end of Time, that indicates the supremacy of the
bestial nature from the beginning of mortality. Women
clothe themselves with the skins of animals to enhance
their beauty, disregarding that Beauty cannot rest upon
the infliction of pain and the killing of animals. Many
forces opposed to Beauty and harmony necessarily attend
the slaughtering of animals. Women typify the soul
which is seeking Beauty and Harmony. Instead of cloth-
ing themselves with the real clothing, that of qualities of
redeemed soul and mind, by which the Body Beautiful
[85)
86 Spiritual Significance of the Body
can be manifested, women are content to ape the animals
and to wear the skins of beasts.
The "coats of skins," primarily put on by the evolving
consciousness of men and women, consisted of material
forces that subjected the spirit, soul, mind, and body to
limitations and bondage. The revelation at the end of the
Adamic era of the conditions existent at its beginning,
reveals the bodies of women clothed with "coats of skins,"
indicating their subjection to materiality on the soul and
the physical plane. The spirit of Beauty is thus debased
by materially minded women who sanction the current of
killing and slaying in all directions, by sanctioning it in
one direction. The evolution of the mortal body may
demand the flesh of animals as food, through necessity,
but there is no occasion to wear the hides of animals to
promote beauty. Beauty must rest upon the premise of
harmony and not upon the promotion of inharmony.
The wearing of fur is an obnoxious practice and violates
all the principles related to beauty. It is not a necessity,
as some have proven even in the polar regions, hence is
not needed for warmth. The writer keeps warm without
the aid of furs, and is not a party to the violation of the
Principle of Beauty, functioned by women who have not
yet found the Soul and united it with the; Spirit. It is a
fact that one still must wear shoes, and in other ways
subject animal products to the uses and comfort of man,
but this is no reason why those who are to objectify the
reality of Beauty need to adorn themselves in the skins
of animals.
Beauty is another name for Woman. Woman, when
revealed in reality is the Principle of Divine Love, the
mothering Quality of God by which the real state of man
is fashioned. The real state of man will be clothed in
Wisdom and Love, the only "coat of skins" that is sancti-
fied before God. The real state of man is not fashioned
by forms of men being born from wombs of women. The
Woman Principle that arises at the end of Time gives
spiritual birth to the offspring of the Creator, as well as
rebirth to humanity. This is the Woman that comple-
Hair and Beauty 87
ments the Man Principle, by which the New Order in the
Ages is identified. All women must attain to Woman, and
all men to Man, before the Love and Wisdom of God can
clothe the consciousness and reveal the reality of being.
The Principle of Divine Love is inclusive of Beauty in
all its aspects. All ugly forces of progression, common to
mortals, must pass before the Judgment Throne of Beauty
and receive their death-blow, being superseded by ex-
pressions of Beauty that reveal the realities of Life and
Being. Beauty attempts today to invade all departments
of living. This is witnessed by the invasion of beauty on
the planes of architecture, industry, transportation, in-
terior decorating, manufacturing of cloth and other prod-
ucts, etc. This revealment of the touch of beauty is the
Woman Principle making itself felt in outer ways; though
the race reflects the actual expression of the Principle of
Beauty that is identified in the spiritually progressed, who
transcend the spirit of the race.
The Principle of Beauty is one with the Principle of
Love. As Principle, both Beauty and Love free the soul
and body, mind and spirit, from the ugliness of mortality,
setting into operation the demand for righteousness and
order. It is a farcical expression that does not promote
substantiality of citizenship to be beautifully clothed on
the outer plane and to leave unclothed the mind and soul.
It is a violation of the Principle of Beauty and Love to be
outwardly beautiful, but to remain inwardly full of "dead
men's bones and all iniquities." The promotion of the
Principle of Beauty and Love frees man from enslave-
ment to the bestial nature, and adorns him with the come-
liness of spirituality.
"Beauty is more than skin deep," an old adage, signi-
fied a deeper beauty than that of the surface of the skin.
One may have a beautiful character and be outwardly
plain, though contacting the Principle of Beauty in a
deep, soul-satisfying way. Genuine beauty is of the soul,
the mind, the spirit, the will. When genuinely revealed,
it is the capacity to express the Qualities of the Real Man
or Woman. Since the Qualities of the Real Man or
88 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Woman cannot be expressed independently of the spir·-
itual progression, Beauty is understood only when one
has forsaken the wiles of the flesh, and has been opened to
know the Real Self. The outer aspects of beauty have
been revealed in many ways the last century, because the
inner Principle of Beauty and Love has been unfolding.
However, until Love is consciously gained within the con-
sciousness, genuine Beauty cannot express no matter how
progressed egos may be.
The bobbing of the hair of women does not alone relate
to beauty, but reflects the outworking of an inner Prin-
ciple. It is quite fitting that at a time when the mysteries
of life, associated with Woman, are being unveiled, that
corresponding outer changes take place relating to
women. Their ascension on all planes of unfoldment the
last century is not a happenstance. The first discourse on
long or short hair is given by Paul in First Corinthians,
Eleventh Chapter. He says if a woman is not veiled, let
her be shorn. Evidently the time had come when women
had to be shorn by having their hair bobbed, symbolizing
the uncovering of the sexual mystery. While this mystery
is uncovered in one conscious of Truth, the inner unfold-
ment of Principles reflects itself in symbols on the outer
plane. The symbol contains no reality or truth, but it is
used to promote thought in the race mind, that must learn
to think by means of what it sees, before it can think in
principles; like the child beginning to learn is given blocks
and pictures, before it is given books to read.
As mystery relating to sexual forces, centered to women,
the females of the race, was superseded with the revela-
tion of the Mystery of Woman, and the principles govern-
ing the righteous birth of Man, the sexual forces long
hidden were uncovered; giving rise to adulteration and
debauchery, as witnessed the last quarter of a century.
This was accompanied with the cutting of the hair of
women. Short-haired women have been considered, in
the past, as harlots, though it is interesting to note that
when the Divine Laws declared the whole plane of mor-
tality in harlotry, by uncovering the Principle of Woman
Hair and Beauty 89
and Divine Love, all women, generally speaking, were
made the symbol of harlotry by being shorn of long hair.
The soul impetus of the race that prompts action is
always in keeping with the impetus of mind .that develops
intelligence. The uncovering of the mystery of Soul, as
Woman, was accompanied with the uncovering of the
mystery of mind, this portraying itself, in symbol, in rela-
tion to the heads of women. Women typify the animal
soul, and the head typifies the centers of intelligence
racially unfolding. Racial women would naturally reflect
the Principle working out by means of Woman, who
shearing her head of material intelligence and her soul
of animality of feeling, was the impetus in the Law that
prompted the symbolic unveiling of women. The race-
mind may think it acts in its own impetus, but the outer
plane of consciousness is governed from within, and only
reflects the progression of the inner Principles; though
only those aware of these Principles can witness this plan
of progression.
Women typify Soul on the mortal plane, while men
typify Mind, in relation to the sexes. This is not to say
that mortal women have gained Soul, or that mortal men
have gained Mind, but they reflect these two factors of
consciousness. As the Woman Principle of Divine Love,
by which the mystery of sex was uncovered and super-
seded, arose in the Mind of the Spirit, this established
among men and women a symbolical equality. This equal-
ity objectified itself by women making their heads look
like the heads of men, with men being forced to become
more soulful by being cut off from the pursuits of ma-
teriality. Bobbed hair of women does not mean that
women have put on the masculinity of Mind, no more
than it indicates that short-haired men have intelligence,
for there is no truth in the symbol.
Since the active powers of the Divine Laws are in the
womanhood of the race at the end of Time, marked
changes are particularly noticeable in women, who reflect
the inner movements of these Laws. This does not mean
that women know anything about the Divine Laws, when
90 Spiritual Significance of the Body
only reflecting them, hut that they can he used to set an
example when the judgment of these Laws is going
forth. Before women can put on the intelligence of Divine
Mind, they must attain to mental equality with men on
the natural plane, superseding this mental development
with the understanding of the spiritual. Men have to at-
tain to the soul qualities, common to women, superseding
these forces with the love of the spiritual. The Divine
Laws are seeking to mate the forces of men and women,
but this equality must be premised within each individual
before it can express between individuals.
The attempt of women to ape the heads of men, by
cutting their hair, as though this indicated equality, is a
futile representation of advancement, though it may de-
clare their sexual freedom. Women are wiser than men
as respecting the real things of life, and it is no credit for
them to become as materially minded as men. Bobbed
hair does not indicate that women have put on the mascu-
linity of character, but it is only a figure of that necessity.
The same action of Life that forces women to become
masculinized, forces men to become feminized, therefore
the many endeavors on the part of men to develop the
forces of beauty and soul. When women have inside
their heads what bobbed hair typifies, viz., intelligence,
they will have the gained masculine quality (Wisdom),
and will not need to flaunt the symbol. Adorned with
the gained masculine quality, womanhood will be beauti-
ful, partaking of the nature of God, and mothering the
real qualities of the race.
Symbols serve in pointing people to the inner realities
that cause the reflections, but in themselves are nothing.
Bobbed hair indicates that the womanhood of the race,
hidden in the sexual mystery, is now uncovered; but be-
cause the veil is removed from mortal women does not
imply that they are veiled with Truth. Both men and
women must clothe themselves with the Wisdom of Mind
that relates to the head, offsetting the sensuality of mortal
progression by putting on the soul of love and beauty.
Cutting the hair of women may typify the cutting-off of
Hair and Beauty 91
the sensuality of females in the presence of the Woman
Principle of Divine Love, but it does not reveal the reality
of womanhood. Reality of womanhood is identified when
reality of Beauty and Love is gained by women through
putting off the enslavements of sense.
The effort of the Laws of progression to force men to
become more feminine, and women to become more mas-
culine, is an attempt to polarize each male within the
consciousness so that the inner feminine can arise, and
each female within herself so that the inner male can
arise; without which polarization there can be no outer
equality of men and women, and no rebirth of a civiliza-
tion that will permit immortality. The Divine Laws never
fail, though they may symbolize in crude ways their inner
unfoldment, using the foolish things of men to bring to
naught the things that are wise; and the weak things of
men to bring to naught the things that are strong; and
the things that are not to bring to naught the things that
are.
Hair typifies strength of animality of forces. Samson
lost his hair and lost his strength as a result. The beards
of men are suggestive of virile animal powers, though
as the manhood of the race is progressed toward a higher
expression, strength and virility are found to be mental
qualities. Manhood is measured by qualities of character
gained and not by the animal tendencies. Hair always
associates itself with the primitive animal, the sexual
organs of the human (so-called) being the identification
of this characteristic. The cutting of hair is significant
of the desire to be freed from the animal nature, and its
limitations and woes. Religious cults that promote long
hair and unshaven faces, place their own interpretations
upon ancient beliefs, bringing down to date the lies of
mortality that must keep pace with the unfoldment of
Truth. This is purely a formality, as hair is without power
to connect men or women with Divine Powers, or to dis-
connect them.
The shearing of the hair of women at the end of Time,
indicates the running down of the sensual current to
92 Spiritual Significance of the Body
which women have been ignorantly held in bondage,
though the shortness of hair does not free her from this
bondage: her own developed intelligence and love will set
her free. That hair has been considered the glory of a
woman's head symbolizes the feeling nature she is ex-
pected to express in intelligence, rather than in subordi-
nation to sensuality. 'Vhen the feeling nature of women
is conformed to the Principle of Divine Love, the Woman
Principle appears, and the spurious "glory of the woman's
head" appears, with the bobbing of her hair. When
woman is clothed in consciousness of Divine Love and
Truth, she can be shorn of her sensuality, this symboliz-
ing itself in the race as the voluntary cutting of her hair.
The uncovering of the Principle of Divine Love is the
fulfilling of the law of sin, but this fulfilment is not with-
out the uncovering of the sinful thoughts, feelings, and
tendencies that have characterized mortality. This un-
covering results in harlotry and debauchery of forces, loss
of respect for law and women, as characterize the end of
mortality; but the liberation of the hells is necessary be-
fore the Principles of Heaven can be enthroned as gov-
erning powers in the consciousness of those able to stand
this trial, and to be born as free men and women. Before
men and women can be free they must consciously ex-
perience bondage, hence, the end of material progression
is attended with more intense bondage on one side and
more intense consciou,sness ·of freedom on the other.
Truth alone sets one free from the limitations of mate-
riality but it must include a thorough understanding of
the untruth, as well as embrace the fundamental Prin-
ciples of Creation and their application to unfolding con-
sciousness.
Beauty especially associates itself with wonien. When
Soul is genuinely identified in consciousness, it will ex-
press as qualities of character in both men and women.
Mind being united with redeemed Soul, by which the
righteous Body can express, will reveal Man full of beauty
and power. The righteous Body will be the temple of
Man, free from defilement of love, and all that makes for
Hair and Beauty 93
lies and delusions. Beauty has its highest expression in a
well-ordered consciousness. Equality of forces of spirit,
soul, mind, and body identifies Beauty, as well as Love of
a spiritual nature. Men must be made negative in the
masculinity of forces to beautify their souls. They have
been so long the lords of materiality that it requires the
destruction of mortality itself to release them, and to
force the revelation of real manhood. The physical
strength of men must be superseded by mental strength
of character, so that women will not need to be made
weak that men may make themselves strong.
Beauty relates to face as well as to 'hair. The signifi-
cance of beauty of face is that which indicates the unfold-
ing intelligence. Intelligence is one with feeling, and con-
trolled feeling is the means of attaining to Soul, by which
Beauty and Love of a genuine nature can express. Hair,
as to color, relates to tone, and tone relates to soul devel-
opment. The soul is the seat of beauty, color, and music
(tone). Beauty of soul is often seen in the eyes, and
radiates from the skin, the functional center of feeling or
Touch. Beauty of body is progressed with beauty of Soul
and Mind, though it is the Beauty of Spirit, attained
through gaining the Truth, that transforms the whole
nature of man; revealing him or her in genuine beauty
of manhood and womanhood.
As the senses reach their zenith of development, beauty
is more greatly revealed. This accounts for beauty as-
serting itself in the younger generations, even extending
its influence to men whose facial features indicate the
union of beauty with strength. While beauty has asso-
ciated itself with women, the masculinizing of her forces
in equality with the feminizing of the forces of men, gives
to her facial .expression a combination of strength and
beauty. Now that the soul of the animal race is culminat-
ing its progression, the fruit of beauty, as it has been de-
veloped on the plane of mortality, is revealed in both
sexes. Women have always had the quality of strength on
the inner plane while men have been outwardly developed
in this quality, but now both are being polarized so that
--
94 Spiritual Significance of the Body
beauty and strength characterize the outer expression
and the inner unfoldment. This is the case where con-
sciousness is awakened and progressing under the higher
Laws of Being; though many men retain the character-
istics of the brute, and women the characteristics of the
harlot.
The relation of sexual advancement to beauty is in
keeping with mortal progression of animal mankind.
Beauty and Love are developed in the law of sin and
death, that is, the sexual law, in their racial character-
istics, this giving rise to more beautiful and lovely persons
at the end of Time. However, unless consciousness is
reborn and substantialized in Beauty and Love, the fruit
of mortality is lost in adulteration and irresponsibility.
Beauty, to be genuine, must associate with mentality and
spirituality of character. Men and women, to attain gen-
uine Love and Beauty, must be shorn of animality of
character rather than of hair. The animality of intel-
ligence and feeling must be cut off, not the hair alone.
Understanding must supersede the knowledges developed
in the sensations of the flesh, and Wisdom come to crown
the heads of both men and women, and Love their hearts,
before the fellowship and comradeship they seek cam be
reality and fact.
Gray hair, the chief disorder relating to hair, is the re-
sult of physical changes taking place within the organ-
ism. The lack of certain mineral elements in the food
results in lack of coloring of the hair. Anxiety and worry,
and other forces that make for mental stress, burn out
the elements of the hair and reduce it to a colorless, life-
less state. All elements are subject to mental energies.
Gray hair has been controlled through consciously di-
rected mental energies, but an organism that is freed from
disintegration and decay is essential to assure the per-
manency of beauty and life. Gray hair is unnatural, but
it is also unnatural for the organism of Man to go into
age and dissolution. It is only because the elements that
make up man are material and subject to law of unbal-
anced duality, that age and decomposition are present.
Hair and Beauty 95
Gray hair symbolizes the burnt-out elements of the animal
man, though it may also be induced by mineral deficiency.
Anything that devitalizes the system or depletes the blood,
reduces the elements that feed the hair, and leads to
scantiness of color and lack of nourishment. Baldness
may be traced to similar conditions, coupled with lack
of vigorous circulation of the scalp.
Beauty is of the soul, but its spirit is revealed on the
outer plane as good taste, harmony, and all that beauti-
fies the physical plane. The animal man reaches the
zenith of advancement at the end of Time, with Beauty
also brought to light. Whether beauty is revealed as
human characteristics, or in the outer harmonies, its de-
velopment indicates the progression of Soul and its su-
premacy over the destructive forces of sense. That Beauty
is invading the outer planes of living today indicates the
Woman Principle in supremacy, though Her direct influ-
ences are seen as mental and spiritual unfoldment.
Parlors for the promotion of beauty have sprung up in
even the smallest towns, developing the idea. Beauty has
entered the culinary field, giving zest to appetite through
beauty of food. It is not that the race has become vain
in its pursuit of beauty, but that the beauty of Soul is
expanding, preparatory toward a New Order, in which
harmony and genuine Beauty will assert their powers and
presence. The reality of Beauty and Love cannot be
found by mortal mind, but the changing world is giving
way to the realities of Life and Truth; permitting a higher
understanding of the forces through which the race neces-
sarily progressed, before it could put on genuine character
and express the realities of being.
There was a time when the cultivation of beauty was
considered sinful. Even now, there are people who hold
to the "traditions," and who resent the advent of Beauty
and Love. The expressions of feeling, whether love or
hate, were considered sinful by the mortally progressing,
when held to low planes of unfoldment. Now this neces-
sity is understood, and people can go free from the law
of sin and death that has so long held them in bondage.
96 Spiritual Significance of the Body
It was sexual love and the mortal mind's conception of
its expression that made Beauty and Love handmaidens
of sin and shame. There is nothing enticing about Beauty
and Love, when genuinely understood. They are visibly
revealed as a Soul in attunement with the inner Spirit.
If one's soul is beautiful, one's mental comprehensions
are Truth, and living is made more harmonious.
Elegance is not necessarily beauty, though beauty may
be elegant, as well as simple, in its expression. When in-
ner Beauty is understood, the outer beauty is seen to be
Lhe inner qualities shining forth. To grasp the outer
beauty without appreciation of that which brought it
forth is still to express in greed and selfishness. The vio-
lation of Beauty is the violation of the harmony of the
soul and of the spirit, thus promoting inharmony and woe.
Beauty has nothing to do with cruelty or greed. No stretch
of imagination, or mental expansion, can justify the
adorning of women with the skins of animals as an ad-
junct to beauty. Until women adorn themselves with the
inner Principles of Harmony and Beauty, they are not
outwardly beautiful, no matter how they appear or dress.
Peacocks are beautiful when they flaunt their feathers,
but we do not expect them to express beyond the plane of
fowls. The vanities of the world are promotive of discord
and woe.
The passing of the animality of mortality will usher in
humanity. However, it is the superseding of the mortal
forces with the qualities of the immortal (spiritual) that
ushers in humanity of character, by giving the race re-
birth. This is the function of Woman, as God created Her
to be, mothering living men and manifesting the harmo-
nies of being. There will be no necessity to subordinate
the lives of animals, nor to adorn women in their skins,
when mortals take control of their own animality, super-
seding it with humanity and understanding. Cruelty must
pass before Beauty can be. Love is the fulfilling of the
Law, but Love enthroned is beauty of spirit, soul, mind,
and body; revealed as harmony that will forever offset
the inharmonies that have beset the animality of men.
Hair and Beauty 97
Man and Woman, revealed in the character they were
created to attain, are Beauty enthroned; Wisdom and
Love joined as one, the eternal joy identified.
MEDITATION
I am established in Beauty of consciousness and char-
acter.
I am free from sensual thought and emotion, established
now in Divine Love.
Wisdom and Love are united, revealing the beauties of
Life and Being.
FACE AND INTELLIGENCE
THE Face is the outer aspect of the inner intel-
ligence. The inner intelligence may not be con-
sciously developed, but this will show in the face
as undevelopment. Development of the inner intelligence
reflects itself as light to the eye and character to the face.
If the progression of life is not controlled in intelligence,
the face will also indicate this condition. Lines of worry,
anxiety, fretfulness, and other aspects of forces of thought
and feeling reflect to the face, giving it character or in-
dicating the lack of it. It has been said that the face is
the bulletin board upon which one advertises victories or
defeats.
The Face, the outer aspect of the inner intelligence,
has its counterpart as the heart which registers the true
status of the unfoldment. It is not the physical heart,
but the spirit of man, as the heart, that pivots the devel-
oped intelligence. The face reflects what is going on be-
hind the scenes, but where control of feelings is perfected,
the face can be protected from registering what is in-
wardly witnessed. This capacity has given rise to the
term "poker face." Yet, the face indicates what is in-
wardly developed, this making up its character or the
lack of it, whether one wills or not.
It is the heart that registers what we know and are,
this expressing in words and deeds, the channels for the
expression of intelligence. Intelligence is primarily from
the impetus of the One Mind, but its forces, reversed on
the plane of self-consciousness, give rise to perverted in-
telligence or ignorance. Ignorance is the intelligence in
negation, that is, the unworked soil of consciousness.
Through struggling with the unknown forces, felt and ex-
perienced, one is developed in intelligence. Emotional
stress makes one think and feel, this permitting intel-
ligence to register, though this method of growth charac-
terizes the race in its earlier stages of progression. When
[98]
Face and Intelligence 99
one is more advanced, understanding is in supremacy,
the will or motion of forces being controlled by mind and
its emanating intelligence.
Intelligence may be grouped under four heads, Knowl-
edge, Understanding, Wisdom, Truth. Knowledge per-
tains to the physical, Understanding to the mental, Wis-
dom to the spiritual, and Truth to Christ consciousness.
Knowledge is developed through the promotion of the
senses, the control of their forces giving rise to Under-
standing. Understanding characterizes mental develop-
ment, and embraces a truer comprehension of all outer
things, as well as opening consciousness to discern the
inner plane of unfoldment, and the Law of Cause and
Effect. The ultimate of Knowledge is self-control. Self-
control embraces the control of actions and words, this
leading to mental control. The ego, positioned in mate-
riality, progresses from the outermost to the innermost,
therefore is first concerned with actions of the bodily
plane, this forcing the control of words. The control of
words invites mental illumination, this giving rise to Un-
derstanding.
Understanding and controlled will go hand in hand.
Will is the capacity to do, while Understanding is the
capacity to know. This knowing and willing pertains to
the outer plane of living, though it invites, while working
out, the capacity to know from the inner plane and to
be governed by its guidance. When one is able to control
both thought and action, relating to the inner and the
outer planes of expression, consciousness is being pre-
pared for spiritual illumination, and the opening of the
current of Wisdom that follows. Will, the capacity to do,
is the means by which being is identified; for to do what
is known is to be what is known. This being is the be-
ginning of the Real Self, by which one is opened to the
illumination of the Mind of the Spirit, by which is Wis-
dom.
Wisdom is not of the mortal mind, the mind of the flesh.
It is of the Mind of the Spirit. One must have brought
all the forces of mortal mind, relating to thought, feeling,
100 Spiritual Significance of the Body
words, and actions, into control of a higher Understand-
ing than that characterizing the race mind, in order to
attain to the Mind of the Spirit. The race thinks in the
mortal mind, judging greatly by appearance and by what
is felt. Wisdom enters the consciousness when one is
master of both thought and feeling. Mastered thought
and feeling, as respecting the physical and the mental
planes of consciousness, complete the natural man and
give rise to the unfoldment of the spiritual, that is gov-
erned in Wisdom. Wisdom is the m.asculine pole of the
Creative Law, and is gained when the intelligence of both
poles of the mind of the flesh, the lower and the higher,
is superseded with a higher spirit of knowing, identi-
fied through uniting will and understanding.
Wisdom embraces a higher understanding of the mortal
plane of living, as well as introduces qualities of judg-
ment, reason, balance, knowing, that could not be on the
plane of mortal mind and soul. Wisdom gives genuine
comprehension of the Laws of God governing the life of
man, individually and racially, though it is not until Wis-
dom sets up her rulership and is climaxed in Truth,
that the absolute Laws of God set up their government
in the individual and in the race. The government of an
individual in the absolute Laws of God is the introduc-
tion of the government of these Laws into the race, to
bring it to a higher expression of unfoldment and being.
Wisdom makes the knowledges of mortal mind to be
foolishness, as well as supersedes the principle of Under-
standing with a more interior knowing. Wisdom gives
man to know through its own spirit being opened in the
consciousness, through controlled will, with which is con-
trolled love.
Truth, the climaxed result of \Visdom is not thought
out, but it is known. It is known because it is. Its isness
is Being. Being is the Principles, eternally existent, that
open in consciousness and set up their government, when
consciousness has attained to a state of male-female
union. This at-onement is the result of developed intel-
ligence, coupled with controlled feeling and action. De-
Face and Intelligence 101
veloped intelligence prepares a brain with coordinated
faculties, by which the Mind of the Spirit is able to func-
tion. The Mind of the Spirit, together with obedience to
its promptings, prepares consciousness to know the Truth.
Truth that is known has already enacted itself in the life
of the consciousness, for its knowing is one with its being.
This is the case when it is opened directly within a con-
sciousness in absolute identity; though the projection of
the Truth known toward others will enable them to know,
and the being of Truth to set itself up in those receiving
it. In this way Truth serves all who will receive it, it
being situated in relation to all like the sun to the planet-
ary system.
The unfoldment of Intelligence in these four modes of
progression reflects itself to the face of man, producing
great outer changes. The writer has had the experience
of not being known by acquaintances of a lifetime, due
to changes wrought in the consciousness and the face in
these modes of unfoldment. Creatively, Man as conscious-
ness is the Face of God, that which reveals the intelli-
gences progressed; though the Love of God is correspond-
ingly promoted with the intelligence. Wisdom and Love
(male and female), identified as one, is that by which
Truth sets up its reign in the consciousness. Wisdom and
Love are the inner counterparts of united Understanding
and Will, the two great Lights of the mind of Man.
Intelligence is the characteristic of progression. No one
wants to remain in ignorance. Ignorance is the primal
lack, the basic reason for all lack. Lack takes outer form
as poverty, and poverty is traceable to ignorance: even
the failure to conform a financial system of government
to inner bountiful Principles is an evidence of ignorance.
Ignorance promotes lack, and the promotion of lack in
one direction is the promotion of lack in all directions.
When intelligence has been unfolded, man will demand
considerations in living in keeping with his advance-
ment, especially setting up on the plane of government
systems of living that are compatible with his overcom-
ing of lack and limitation. The only reason the limited
102 Spiritual Significance of the Body
financial system has persisted is because of the ignorance
of man, and his failure to unite understanding and will
in all activities of living. The will to promote harmony
in one direction is the will to promote it in all directions.
Will is the executive power, the means by which one puts
into action what is known.
Obstructions to the unfoldment of intelligence stunt
the growth of consciousness and make for selfishness and
woe. The limitations raised by religious organizations,
who demand adherence to tenets, creeds, and doctrines,
instead of demanding increased progression of intelli-
gence, promote lack and poverty, even as the limitations
raised on the plane of government. Religious organiza-
tions that say to their following, "This far and no farther,"
are not only antichrist in spirit, but are promoters of
woe and discord, through setting limitations upon the
unfoldment of intelligence. Even in this day, religious
zealots still burn the books of other religious organiza-
tions, and members of churches hide their advanced
literature in fear, this indicating the intelligence that
characterizes these aspects of progression. The Laws of
Life do consider motives and intentions, but act in exact
science, rendering unto man even as he renders.
Nations show characteristic tendencies according to
the progression of their people. The faces of national
groups indicate the development of the national life, and
the specific individual unfoldment. Where light is unfold-
ing the faces and eyes of the people reflect it. Yet, the
face can be a mask for what is thought and felt. People
of cruel and selfish tendencies show it in their faces and
bearing, though where outer nicety is promoted, a sur-
face glamour may obscure the inner rawness of the soul
and mind. Hypocrisy is a characteristic of mortals and
things are not what they seem, nor are people, until un-
derstanding governs and one seeks to be true to the self.
The study of faces is an interesting pastime.·
The people of the United States, especially those born
in the current of this national group, are more poised
and balanced in their facial expressions than people of
Face and Intelligence 103
many other national groups. Representing the higher cur-
rent of mortality, the people of the United States have an
inheritance of progressed intelligence, though they may
need to consciously bring it into action in the life and
the governmental affairs. Some national groups predomi-
nate in feeling, others in intelligence. The dominancy of
feeling gives us the hot and passionate racial types, while
the dominancy of intelligence gives us the poised type,
though somewhat cold in expression. The German people
are typically cold while the Italians are typically hot,
though these characteristics pervade national groups. The
people of the United States are either hot or cold, as a
group, but through controlled thought and feeling repre-
sent a well-balanced state of consciousness; though still
needing to become conscious of their birthright of intel-
ligence and to enter into their inheritance.
The faces of the dead often reflect what has been de-
veloped on the inner planes, when consciousness has not
been too intensely disturbed in the process of dying. One
who has been serious in life to hide a tender heart often
reflects the tenderness when there is no longer any occa-
sion to wear the mask. Some people are more beautiful
dead than alive, and vice versa. Death removes the mask
of personality and exposes the developed qualities to
view, though faces, dead or alive, must be read in under-
standing to assure proper interpretation.
Education is the racial mode of developing intelligence.
People who have not had educational advantages usually
indicate it in the face, as well as by means of speech. How-
ever, the School of Life may progress one into a truer
expression of education than that obtained in schools.
Religiou,s educa~ion, more directly relating .to under-
standing and the feeling nature, makes the greatest
change in one's appearance. When spiritual develop-
ment is experienced one may become quite spiritual in
expression, showing the inner unfoldment in the face and
voice. An ugly person may become beautiful in face
through a change of heart and mind. A beautiful face
may become sour and ugly through persistent habits of
104 Spiritual Significance of the Body
anxiety and fault-finding.
Each ego brings into the world at birth the inherent
characteristics of the inner plane of consciousness. These
give character to the face at birth, when consciousness
has become adapted to living on the planet. Family re-
semblances enter because of the related blood stream, it
being the current in which the generative life is propa-
gated. These resemblances are from the similar seed and
not from the tendencies of similar thought, though people
may, through similar thought in marriage come to look
alike. This is not, however, without a commingling of
forces in the sexual relation. The offspring relate to the
forces developed in parents, but reveal their own char-
acteristics, if generative forces do not dominate the con-
sciousness. When higher mental and spiritual qualities
dominate the consciousness, egos born into the world may
not look like their ancestors, but be distinct in inner
qualities of intelligence and in outer appearance.
The many faces of the many people of the race repre-
sent the diversified expressions of the qualities of the
Infinite Intelligence, in modes of progression. As there
are not two leaves on a tree alike, so there are not two
people alike. Twins, related from the same sexual cur-
rent, are more often alike than other people. Similarity
of tastes and tendencies that often characterizes twins is
promoted from the generative current out of which they
are materially reproduced. If forces of a nature, higher
than the generative current, dominate the egos being
born into the world, the similarity is broken, even in re-
lation to twins; though all people born of the flesh par-
take of the fleshly characteristics. They must be born of
the Spirit to put on the characteristics of the Spirit.
The facial characteristics of the race are distinct from
the animals, yet, since the animal forces are first within
the consciousness of man, it is not uncommon to see peo-
ple having facial expressions similar to animals. Animal
mankind is the animal tendencies in processes of unfold-
ment. When these animal tendencies especially control
the consciousness of man, the ego m ay look like particu-
Face and Intelligence 105
lar animals relating; that is, bear a certain suggestion of
the animal relating to the dominant animal force. The
author recalls a man who had the facial expressions of a
hog, and has often been impressed with the animal ex-
pressions in the faces of people.
The most human looking people are not consciously
the most human. Their humanity of expression has been
won at some time, so as to register as intelligence in the
face, but other forces have arisen within the heart so
as to control the present expression of the ego. There is
no absolute law governing Nature's expressions. Nature,
herself, comes under absolute authority of Divine Laws
at given times in racial progression, but continues
throughout the cycles to bring forth varieties of forces
in forms of development. The faces of people greatly tell
the story of their advancement, indicating their tendencies
of thoughts, emotions, and deeds. When one understands
the animality and humanity of one's own unfoldment,
one can discern like characteristics in others, for all are
cut over the same pattern, mortals and immortals partak-
ing of certain characteristics, ordained in Divine Laws
to be progressed and revealed.
When one keeps the mind stayed on spiritual prin-
ciples and ideas, the intelligence of the Spirit is bound
to reflect to the face, as well as being expressed by means
of words and actions. Yet, man looketh upon the outer,
while God looketh upon the heart. But if one has looked
upon his own heart, and measured it to the governing
Laws of God, one can also discern howin the hearts of
others measure to like Laws, or fail to measure; for a
tree is known by the fruit it bears.
MEDITATION
Intelligence is identified in consciousness and expresses
in face and word.
I face all things in Truth and radiate the light of Un-
derstanding and Wisdom.
The face shows forth the inner unfoldment. I rejoice
in inner Light and Love.
TEETH: ANALYSIS AND DIET
TEETH typify the powers of analysis and differen-
tiation. Analysis is the capacity to dissect, dis-
criminate, dissolve, and eliminate. It is the ca-
pacity to build up and to tear down, to preserve and to
annihilate. Teeth, with their hard covering of enamel,
typify the persistency of mind to master its invading
forces, and the protection that consciousness is given on
the outer plane, in relation to unfolding the inner quali-
ties.
Teeth are temporary and permanent in nature, though
the permanency of teeth is not after the eternal laws,
for teeth dissolve and decay. The temporary is called the
milk set, and is composed of twenty teeth. Twenty typi-
fies duality, ten being the primal virginal principle:
twenty is the positive and negative poles of the primal
virginal principle, reversed on the plane of materiality.
The permanent set is composed of thirty-two teeth,
grouped as molars, bicuspids, canines, and incisors. Four
wisdom teeth are added to the mature set, though not all
people receive their wisdom teeth. They are called wis-
dom teeth because they come after maturity, but this is
no indication of the wisdom of the consciousness, that
measures its knowledge by developed brain, and not by
teeth.
The number thirty-two is fraught with mystery only in
its relation to thirty-three, the mystical number of com-
pleted natural and spiritual unfoldment. Thirty-two is
a finishing point on the plane of mortality, giving rise to
fulfilment of mortality when spirituality is unfolded; as
the natural is fulfilled by means of the spiritual. Thirty-
three is the mystical number of mortality's fulfilment,
though it is also indicative of oneness of the spiritual and
the natural, by which the Christ consciousness can open
to perform its individual and universal work.
Teeth are for purposes of chewing, tearing, gnawing,
[106]
Teeth: Analysis and Diet 107
and mixing food, so as to prepare it for mastication in
the mouth. The chewing of food aids in mixing its ele-
ments with the saliva, this being an important function
for the nourishment of the body. The cleanliness of the
teeth makes for purification, as well as prevents elements
of decay from mixing with the food. The stressing of
"seeing the dentist at least twice a year," is not to enrich
the pockets of dentists, but is to promote the general
health and well-being. Twice daily cleansing of the teeth
aid in their preservation and in promoting the natural
health. Cleansing with a flat dental floss also promotes
the health of the teeth, it performing a service that cannot
be accomplished with a brush.
Well-masticated food liberates the chemical elements
of the food-substance, making for nourishment of the
organism. Soft foods, in the form of cooked foods, hasten
the decay of the teeth because of the lack of exercise to
which the teeth are subjected. The introduction of raw
foods into the diet aids the teeth, as well as permits the
chemical elements of the food to enter directly into the
blood stream in their pure state. Cooking destroys much
of the chemical elements of foods, leaving the bulk of
residue that is devitalized to supply the needs of the
organism, this giving rise to food hunger. The residue
of cooked food, lacking in vitamins, fails to nourish the
organism and deficiency arises, promoting illness and
tooth decay; as well as increasing the unnatural waste to
be eliminated.
The exercise for the teeth should be natural, as the
teeth should not be used to crack nuts, bite thread, or in
any other manner that might lead to their injury. Teeth
need plenty of lime to assure their stability, as well as
other mineral elements, such as phosphorus and calcium
that are obtained more directly from raw foods and
grains. Diet is as essential to the health of the teeth, as
the proper use of the teeth is essential to the benefit de-
rived from the diet. Animals gnaw bones and promote
the health of the teeth, but etiquette forbids humans this
pastime, so they must seek other ways of exercising the
108 Spiritual Significance of the Body
gums and teeth.
The Analysis of food is its reduction to its constituent
elements, these being carried forward in the processes of
digestion to nourish and to sustain the natural ol'ganism.
The analysis of food is similar to the analysis of ideas of
mind. The reduction of ideas to their many parts, seeing
them from every angle, is to analyze them. Analysis of
ideas exercises the brain, giving tonicity to the entire
organism to which the brain relates. Even so, the analysis
of food through proper mastication, gives physical tone
to the organs of digestion, though mastication is but one
step in the digestive process.
A thinker is a good analyzer. A good analyzer, deduc-
ing thought in sequence and harmony, necessarily comes
to consideration of diet. Diet is as individual as is the
thought, therefore no set laws can be laid down for the
individual, except that which makes for harmonious
combinations of food, and proper mastication. There is
a harmonious combination of thought, it having its physi-
cal complement as harmonious combinations of food. The
adjustment of the thought world, so as to make for puri-
fication, is automatically the adjustment of the diet and
the proper consideration of the physical organism, in its
relation to food. Some people arrive at consideration of
proper thought through promoting proper diet, without
realizing the intimate relation that exists between the
two processes.
The capacity to analyze ideas in sequential deduction
means a coordinated brain, a balanced nervous system,
as well as makes for a more harmonious physical expres-
sion. However, the activities of the physical plane must
be adjusted in harmony, if the well-being of the natural
man is to be promoted. One might think indefinitely upon
ideas of a supernature without directly changing the
vitality of the organism, though a refined mentality, with
accompanying purified soul energies, has a reaction upon
the physical energies; but this may not carry over to the
outer organism. If laws are violated on the outer plane
of one's being, the advanced mentality can adjust the
Teeth: Analysis and Diet 109
outer man only through offsetting the violation. Inner
advancement can not perfect itself so as to identify spir-
itual consciousness, without the tendencies of the natural
man being conformed to the unfolding spiritual laws.
Faculties of the brain are developed through analytical
thinking. However, the tendency to analyze material
thought must be superseded with a higher capacity of
thought, if analysis is to promote a consciousness of a
higher nature. A developed brain makes for harmonious
adjustments on all planes of expression, promoting the
will to do and to be what one is willing to know. It is
this coordinated unfoldment that reveals man in his
higher nature, and which gives him dominion over the
food elements, making appetite subject to intelligence
and will. The mastery of appetite is essential in master-
ing the self, by which the I is the governing authority
over the natural plane of living.
One may analyze thoughts of a material and of a men-
tal nature. One may even dissect spiritual ideas, but un-
less one knows the Principles from which these ideas
issue one's deductions are futile and temporary. Truth
cannot be thought out by anyone, for it is revealed through
the Spirit of God in man. This is the Spirit of Christ.
Christ is the One, by which the Laws of God operate.
Capacity to permit the One to act is through coordinating
the natural and the spiritual, so that there are no more
two planes of expression, but only one; and that the per-
ceived spiritual idea and its expression in the life. This
attainment enables the One to operate and to reveal the
fundamental Principles of Being, or the Truth. One must
have ceased to think, after much thinking has been de-
veloped, to permit Truth to be known; as well as have
surrendered the will to the purpose of the Divine Will.
Truth has no perfect expression in the material world,
nor can it be analyzed after the manner of the mortal
mind; nor can one make a perfect illustration of the
Principles of Truth by means of outer things. Truth is
the result of a coordinated brain, identified through a
conscious control of the natural and the spiritual forces
110 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of unfoldment; and opens in consciousness because one
has ceased to analyze and differentiate, through having
reached their fulfilment. When one knows good and evil,
the distinct dualities of mortal existence, one no longer
needs to analyze and differentiate, but can enter into the
knowing of Truth as to all things. Truth is the beginning
of eternal life, the identification of the reality of Man as
God created him-her to be. It is the capacity to eat of
the Tree of Life, and to promote continuity of being with-
out the necessity of birth and death.
Diet is to the body what thought is to the mind. It per-
tains to quality and quanti'ty of food, to combinations,
calories, and vitamins. Calories are the energies of food,
vitamins pertain to the chemical qualities. All food, in
the last analysis, contains its own spirit, of which we
partake. The spirit of food, as chemical elements, has
been found in the brain, especially foods that had organic
identity, such as meats. Meats are positive foods, while
vegetables, in comparison, are negative expressions of
foods. Meats serve the lower organisms while vegetables
serve the higher organisms. The advancement of men-
tality, so as to contact the Spirit of Life, naturally trends
one in the direction of a vegetable diet. Fruits classify
with the vegetables and are highly important in promot-
ing harmony of the body.
Harmonious thought and sequential analysis are re-
flected in what one eats and how it is eaten. Simplicity
of quality offsets variety of food, when appetite is in con-
trol. Diversity of food corresponds to diversity of thought,
and when appetite and the mentality are not under con-
trol, people are slaves to the endless diversities of forces
that characterize materiality. When mentality governs,
one eats from the spirit of understanding and not from
the sense passions of appetite. Concoctions of food on the
natural plane have become as complex as the processes
of diversified mortal thought and development. These
complexes are superseded by simplicity of thought, diet,
and living, when mentality governs one's unfoldment.
Foods classify as proteins, starches, fats, vegetables,
Teeth: Analysis and Diet 111
and fruits. There are acid and sweet fruits, starchy and
non-starchy vegetables. Raw food is more natural than
cooked food, but the use of uncooked food makes for un-
natural results when it is first attempted. The digestive
organs have been weakened by the use of cooked foods,
hence, it takes some time and patience to build up the
organism through the use of raw foods. The system must
be cleansed of its impurities through diet and fasting,
this giving strength and tonicity to the organs, enabling
one to more readily partake of raw foods, with their
live elements.
The essential quality of food is grape-sugar or grape
proteid. Foods, low in their capacity of reduction to
grape-sugar, are wasteful and make much work for the
system, without supplying proper benefits. A grape diet
is found to be curative in its nature, especially used to
successfully combat the ravages of cancer. Fruit diets
are desirable if the system is clean enough to receive their
beneficial effects, but usually one must diet for a few
days before going entirely onto fruits. Vegetables are
considered the only foods that produce a purely alkaline
effect in the system. Yet, until the organism of man is
established in natural laws governing the physical plane,
foods will have various effects, according to the develop-
ment of the consciousness of the eater, even as thoughts.
The health of the teeth is dependent upon a balanced
nervous system, and a balanced nervous system is de-
pendent upon a healthy blood stream. The final result
of food is found in the blood, as to its physical elements,
though its spirit-chemistry relates to the brain. Over-
eating makes the brain, as well as the liver, sluggish, and
affects the capacity to think. One given to spiritual
thought can greatly live on the spirit of ideas and prin-
ciples, eating becoming secondary to one's existence.
"Man does not live by bread alone," but every quality that
issues from the heart (spirit) gives impetus to the organ-
ism, according to its character.
It is an interesting fact that a few people receive their
third set of teeth, but in all verified instances, the ego has
112 Spiritual Significance of the Body
gone into second-childhood, in some sense, to obtain
them. It is as though the forces of consciousness, reaped
in maturity, come to negation, and start again in keeping
with progression in infancy. This is a phenomenon of
nature, but it is not a standard for men. Attainment of
the body that will not suffer decay is not the substan-
tializing of the elements of the mortal body, but is the
result of a new creature, brought into manifestation
through the operation of the Laws of spiritual birth. Spir-
itual birth pertains to the consciousness, grown up in
mortality, and ready to put off the limitations of the
mortal, and to put on the limitless qualities of the im-
mortal.
Analyzing the activities of life in such a way as to come
into the understanding of the natural man prepares the
way to know the qualities relating to the spiritual man.
"First that which is natural, then that which is spiritual."
Natural man is expected to perfect his unfoldment, doing
all that makes for a greater expression of harmony and
well-being. The advancement, common to the natural
plane the last half-century, is incidental to the fulfilment
of mortality and the revelation of the spiritual. All who
can go forward spiritually must of necessity culminate
the natural plane of unfoldment in understanding; as
well as in the gain of will to know, do and be, that which
makes for perfection.
Perfect teeth will be present in the body, fashioned
from the substance-essence of the Word's activity in
immortality. The hope for a redeemed body, that is, body
redeemed from the necessity of decay and discord, is de-
veloped by means of mortals, but a rebirth is essential
that the ego may be fashioned anew, after the image of
the incorruptible seed. Incorruptible seed is the result
of united understanding and will, by which the love of
mortality is transposed to the Love of the Spirit. All
advancement on the plane of the natural creature is com-
mendable as means of developing the faculties of brain,
that the Mind of the Spirit may project its Laws; by
which man can be spiritually born and fashioned in Life
Teeth: Analysis and Diet 113
and Truth, after the Divine Pattern and Plan.
MEDITATION
No sense obstruction can prevent the perfect analysis
of all things, natural and spiritual.
I know to eat and to drink what the body requires to
promote harmony.
The teeth express wholeness and perfection. I rejoice
in substantiality of being.
THROAT: GRACE, VOICE, SPEECH
T HE Throat is the seat of power. Power is in speech,
but the throat houses the organs of speech. Divine
Power is in words of Truth, it being the result of
united Wisdom and Love, or the union of the male and
female qualities of consciousness. Mortals are not en-
dowed with Divine Power, nor are immortals, except
they have attained to the consciousness of Truth. One
must have become powerful in the dominion of the I,
and have subjected the I to the authority of the Divine
Will, thus becoming powerless, to enter into the function-
ing of the Divine Power. All power is to the powerless,
when both are attained in scientific law. The head typi-
fies Wisdom, and the chest region Love. The throat, con-
necting the head and the chest, is the identified Power
of united Wisdom and Love.
The neck, the organism of the throat, is the symbolical
seat of Grace. Grace is a quality of Love. The neck is a
channel of giving and receiving between the head and
the vital organs, the lungs and heart. The head, pivoting
the brain, the seat of knowing, makes connection with
the heart, the seat of feeling, by means of the throat, this
giving rise to the expression of the qualities of both, as
Power and Speech. Speech functions by means of Voice,
and contains the power of developed intelligence and
feeling. Grace is a spiritual quality, in its reality, relat-
ing the regenerating ego to Love and Wisdom, as they are
projected from Christ consciousness. The stiff-necked
tendency of the mortal must give way to developed intel-
ligence and love to permit grace to identify in the con-
sciousness.
Speech, the function of language, is powerful in the
real sense only when it expresses in words that convey
spiritual truths. Yet, mortally expressed language may
be weak or strong, according to the power of the per-
sonality by which it is uttered. Throat is to the speech
[114]
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech 115
what the violin is to music, the instrument by which
voice is promoted and sound uttered. The organs of
speech within the throat and mouth convey the knowl-
edge and feeling of the one expressing. Words are fraught
with power, or lack power, according to the unfoldment
of the consciousness through which they are expressed.
The vocal cords correspond to the strings of the violin,
and the vibrations of words to the drawing of the bow.
The character of the violin must be attuned to the spirit
of the player, all being coordinated that is used to produce
the desired tone of music; even so, throat, voice and
speech, as well as the organs of speech, attune as one to
promote harmony in the speakers and the hearers.
The organs of speech are made up of the glottis, the
epiglottis, the pharynx, the larynx, and the muscles and
cartilages relating, together with the tongue by which
speech is uttered. The lips and palate, as well as the teeth,
also relate to speech. Speech is the identification in con-
sciousness (Man) of the unfoldment of intelligence.
Through expressing ideas in words, consciousness is un-
folded in capacity to know itself, seeing itself first as the
product of its thoughts and words. An exchange of ideas
with one's fellowmen develops the universal spirit of in-
telligence, as well as the love of the neighbor. Words
expressed give stability to form or to the bodily plane;
the progression of the bodily plane, individually, and
racially, partaking of the character of expressed intel-
ligence and love.
The Word, from which all that is made, means to speak.
The Word that was with God, and which is God, from
the beginning of the unfoldment of the formed world and
man, speaks its Principles into expression, but it must
have a consciousness sufficiently unfolded to receive its
impressions, and by which it can make itself known. God
speaks by means of Man, but Man is not, until conscious-
ness has attained to male-female polarity within one-
self. This male-female polarity is united Wisdom (male)
and Love (female), the seat of Divine Power and Grace.
Such a united consciousness speaks the Truth, for the
116 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Truth is known by its being. Truth is not known through
the spirit of mortal man, but through the Spirit of Christ
in Man.
One may know the things of men through the spirit of
man, but the things of God one knows only through
the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God is Christ. Christ is
the Truth. The Truth, therefore, issues from the Spirit
of God; but the Spirit of God is functioned by conscious-
ness attained to oneness (male-female being) . Truth is
conscious Life, the Way of God's progression among men.
Man is created to function Truth and to reveal the Prin-
ciples and Plan of Life, therefore people are not to be
amazed, surprised or chagrined if the Ideal of God is
revealed among men, and the Truth expressed.
Speaking is a God-given function and is to be con-
formed with the Word Itself, meaning to speak the Truth.
One should not speak to be talking, but rather to say
something of value. The expression of words is the m~ans
by which one learns, and forms one's being. Words arc
the formative powers of mind, the means by which the
invisible thought-substance is made tangible on the bodily
plane. Ideas are exchanged for the purpose of mental
and bodily advancement, the form of ideas being as im-
portant as their spirit. Mental unfoldment develops fac-
ulties of brain, this permitting, when mentality is suffi-
ciently advanced, the Mind of the Spirit to act, giving
Man the inspirations of the Almighty. In this way the
Word speaks itself into consciousness, not as by words
as man speaks, but as by inspirations that convey spir-
itual truth. One, so positioned, is knowing the things of
God, and is expressing them in the direction of others,
by which the Principles of Being liberated can form them-
selves as states of being; this being the case when Truth
is known and expressed. Speech, when functioned in
Truth, is an expression of Grace, as well as of Wisdom
and Power.
An intimate relationship exists between the organs of
speech and the genital organs of women. Woman, in her
true function, is the Helpmeet of the Word, speaking into
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech 117
expression the Man and the universe God has idealized
and made, though this is the speaking of Truth in the
second coming of Christ. Women, as they have func-
tioned in mortality are not Woman, but the limited as-
pects of the Woman qualities, confined in matter. They
make up Hagar, the bond-woman, who has given birth to
bastards; that is, states of consciousness not conformed
to the Laws of Being, therefore illegally begotten. These
are not to inherit with the children of the free Woman,
who brings forth the sons of Creation.
The female organs resemble the organs of speech. Yet,
the female organs of women will never produce Man as
God created him to be, for he is spiritually brought forth
from the redeemed Love, identified as Woman, in con-
tradistinction to women who give birth to mortals. Wom-
an, as the Helpmeet of God, the Word, speaks into ex-
pression the Seeds of Creation, the potential sons and
daughters of God. The potential sons and daughters are
the Qualities of Truth, gained through united Wisdom
and Love, in which is the Life of the Spirit, attained
through mastering the influences and forces of the life,
love, and intelligence of the fleshly nature. The Creative
Function of Woman, with its Formative Power, is one
with the regenerated organism of Woman; that is,
Woman freed from the love and knowledge of sense.
Woman, as the Overcomer, and the second coming of
Christ, is the sexual love and knowledge subjected to the
Love and Wisdom of the Spirit (Christ). Woman, in
divine identity, is the Principle of Divine Love, with
which is Wisdom also, for the woman is not without the
man in the Lord. The Man is Wisdom when gained as a
Principle of Being. Woman, identified as united Male-
Female state of Being, is the Mother-God Principle, with
which is the Father, by which reality of being is brought
forth. The coordination of the spiritual and the physical,
in the organism of the Woman, as the Overcomer, is the
means by which the Foundation of the New Spirit and
Body is laid, and the Order of Immortality is identified
among men; as well as the means by which the virgins,
118 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the sons and daughters of God, are brought forth as the
first-fruits unto God and Christ. This is an actual opera-
tion of the Word, in consciously gained consciousness of
virginity (male-female oneness).
Speech relates to proper breathing. Breathing signifies
the inspiration of the Spirit, with its expiration indicat-
ing the expression of intelligence; hence, inspiration and
expiration of breath are comparable to the inspiration of
the Almighty that gives understanding and the power to
express spiritual intelligence. The air from the lungs,
through the bronchial tubes, gives resiliency to speech,
therefore the necessity of proper breathing and posture
to express proper tone. Especially when tones are ex-
pressed in rhythm, as in singing, is the function of breath-
ing important. There is a rhythm in spiritually expressed
ideas, though it also relates to the sequence of their ex-
pression.
Voice is to the organs of speech what light is to the
eyes, and sound to the ears; it is the emanated intelli-
gence expressed, corresponding to the going forth of the
Word to make Man. Man, as he functions naturally, is of
no greater value than his words, for words are the meas-
ure of one's intelligence and of one's worth. Industrially,
one is of no greater value than is the dependability of
the words expressed. If one does not honor his or her
words, one dishonors oneself. However, one is not hon-
ored in the real way until one can express words of Truth;
though one receives the honor of God rather than the
honor of men, when established in this capacity.
Voice is the seat of intelligence, the emanated energy
. of united thought and feeling. Speech carries with it the
vibrational energies of the speaker. When words are
written, they convey the spirit of the writer, and give
identity, in those who can receive them, to the qualities of
character that underlie the words. Words are the product
of thought, and if they are not endowed with substance
through living, they convey heady knowledge, but are
without virtue to benefit the life of the reader; except the
reader can supply the impetus to make them living sub-
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech 119
stance. If words are endowed with the spirit of life and
love, gained through realizing their power in living, they
convey a like spirit to the listener or to the reader. The
life principle is not in the words, but in the consciousness
of the one expressing them, though every word has its
own energy rate but must be functioned in consciousness
to set it into action.
Words, orally expressed, are more potent to charge
the physical domain of consciousness with the power of
the intelligences that have caused them to be known and
uttered. Written words, when charged with power, pro-
ject their qualities to the spiritual domain or the plane
of the invisible, and become potent factors to form those
receiving them, when the receivers supply the potencies
of substance and life. Spoken words give physical char-
acter and promote the bodily nature of man. Words
carry their own energy of intelligence, as well as tone
of feeling. When words convey spiritual ideas and the_
Principles of Truth they are charged with the Power of
the Spirit that has made known the ideas and Prin-
ciples; but only those attuned to these energies can re-
ceive the Power conveyed, and be opened to know the
Truth expressed. Even as on the lower planes of develop-
ment, people must be in attunement to understand the
ideas expressed, so attunement is necessary in relation
to the expression of Truth. This accounts for Truth being
received by some and repulsed by others.
Voice is divided into four parts, viz., soprano, tenor,
bass, and alto. Soprano and alto are feminine, bass and
tenor are masculine in character. Voice is four in char-
acter, like Man is to be, when completed in the character
of the Word. The difference between the voices of males
and females is in their pitch; yet, as consciousness be-
comes more polarized in its male and female qualities,
voice takes on a certain similar tone in both males and
females. Voice signifies the character of one's unfold-
ment, though mortal ideas progressed give sameness of
expression. Soft-voiced women and stern-voiced men
may have characterized the mortal race in its lower stages
120 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of development, but a truer unfoldment of consciousness
gives rise to voice that is balanced in tone and quality.
It is an interesting phenomenon that the voices of boys
undergo a change at the age of puberty. This is in keep-
ing with the mental development, which reflects itself in
the males. Girls, representing the soul qualities made
outer as feminine characters, do not experience this
change of voice, but reflect on the bodily plane the emo-
tional changes. Emotional changes register in the voice,
conveying the feeling experienced as well as the mental
power, men being more closely related to the mind and
women to the soul, on the plane of mortality. There are
no infallible laws on the plane of mortality, for the law
of change characterizes mortal development. However,
voice indicates the character of the speaker, though it is
the innate qualities identified in the ego that give particu-
lar character to the voice.
Speech has its universal expression as language. Lan-
guage is made up of vowels and consonants. The five
vowels of the English language correspond to the five
senses, while the many consonants represent the variety
of ideas characterizing the life of mortals. The two addi-
tional vowels, sometimes used, imply the two added senses
that are put on when mental consciousness is attained.
The progression of the race is measured by languages,
divisions of language characterizing different races and
indicating the nature of their advancement. Some lan-
guages are more promotive of emotions than others, and
this characteristic is present among races. The many
races and languages represent the distinct racial qualities
unfolding in mortality. They symbolize the universality
of the Word's progression in limited consciousness.
The attempt in recent years to adopt one language,
common to all racial divisions, is significant of the at-
tempt of the Word to bring forth its own tongue. The
tongue of the Word is Truth. Truth opens in all who at-
tain to the Mind of the Spirit, and is the one language
that is God-given. All attaining to Truth make up one
Mind and one Body, the many expressions of the Word,
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech 121
in reality of being. The desire for one language is the
objectification of the desire of the ·word to identify one-
ness of being, by which the reality of Man will appear.
The tongue of the Word is a new one, though it utilizes
words common to all people. The tongue of the Word
is used to convey ideas and principles that supersede the
activities of the mortal mind: these are understandable
only to those who have, in their own unfoldment, tran-
scended the activities of the mortal mind.
Anything that is not understood should be a challenge
to promote understanding, instead of repulsed as non-
essential. Consciousness should be ashamed to think or
feel that there is anything it cannot know; though this is
the impetus of the Word to make its All-knowing known,
and can be felt only by those having the Spirit of God,
or Christ. The quest for more knowledge and under-
standing promotes a greater brain development, and this
permits the Mind of the Spirit to function, when one
enters into the subjection of the material forces to the
mental qualities. It is not that one needs to specialize in
given directions, learning engineering or telegraphy, un-
less one's industrial tendencies trend in these ways, but
that a general understanding of all things, as to their
purposes and principles, should be present; if one is to
make the natural unfoldment count toward gaining the
Mind of the Spirit, by which Truth is known.
Man lives so as to know the Truth. He must first have
the true understanding of the things of the natural plane,
by which the faculties of consciousness are developed,
before he can know the ideas and principles that tran-
scend that plane. \Vhen one has perfected the natural
plane, one has gained the self-consciousness. The sur-
render of the self-consciousness, for the purpose of gain-
ing the spiritual self, is an essential requirement toward
the attainment of the speech of the Word. When the
spiritual self is gained, and the natural is controlled to
the spiritual, the Word can speak, giving man knowledge
of the realities underlying the bodily plane, as well as
revealing the Principles of spiritual being. When the
122 Spiritual Significance of the Body
realities underlying the bodily plane are known, there
is introduced into the physical organism higher energies
and powers, preparing the way for spiritual birth and
bodily redemption. The higher advancement is attended
:with increased health and vitality, though the purpose of
the Creator is not to perfect the mortal man, but to iden-
tify the immortal by which It may work out the Principles
of spiritual being.
The tongue performs a two-fold function. It aids in
masticating food and in expressing words. It is both ma-
terial and spiritual in its tendency. The tongue can be
subjected to perversions on the material plane, or to high-
born energies of words that have opened from the spir-
itual. The tongue, as an organ of speech, is one of trans-
mission rather than one of formation. Ventriloquists
regulate voice and speech through control of muscles and
breathing. There is no speech without tongue. People
who are without speech are often without hearing, though
having tongue and ears. The deaf and dumb who are so
born, and who do not suffer any physical abnormality,
have the seat of their difficulty in the soul and mind.
Hearing is more than a function of ears, even as speak-
ing is more than the use of the organs of speech. Both
are qualities of character, and if these qualities are dis-
ordered in any way they will bring forth disorder. Both
hearing and speaking relate to the motion of energies,
therefore relate to the will. When will is disordered, or
when it is not developed, certain inharmonies present
themselves. Idiocy, sometimes accompanied with de-
rangement of speech, is the result of deficient brain or-
ganism, but may also be more deep-seated than the con-
dition presented on the physical plane. It may be the
result of sensuality of feelings, and motions of forces,
emanated from parents or developed in the deranged
organism. The deficiency affecting any part of the organ-
ism is directly related to deficiency of qualities that make
up that particular part of the organism.
When organs, directly relating to the five senses, are
disordered, these disorders can be traced to either the
Throat: Grace, Voice, Speech 123
violation of the righteous expression of the senses, or to
lack of development of the five sense consciousness. How-
ever, the race is so old in its path of progression that we
do not witness much disorder through lack of develop-
ment; except as through those who are maimed by the
cruelty of the more advanced and are thrown back into
chaos through capital punishment. Nearly all the disor-
ders that beset the mortal race are the result of excessive
material development, this often becoming adulterous
and abusive. It is a proven fact that a male, excessively
sensual, may father an idiot, though little may be said
about it. A man's seed is of no higher quality than the
developed intelligence and love. A female, lacking in
potencies of maternity, may mother an abnormality, but
the active forces of the senses are dominantly pivoted to
the males of mortality; to whom direct authority was
given over the material world.
Grace characterizes speech when it voices qualities of
Truth. People may be gracious on the external plane of
living, this revealing itself as kindness and considera-
tion. One must develop the niceties of mortality before
one is fit to discern the adulteries. However, it is con-
sciousness gained as Truth that enables one to judge the
adulteries of mortality righteously, and to master them;
though the mastering of adulteries is primarily the sub-
jecting of the mortal mind and soul to the unfolding
Qualities of Truth. Adultery is the mixture of forces of
spirit and matter. One is expected to gain consciousness
of the reality of being by overcoming the adulteries and
impurities of mortality. When this overcoming is accom-
plished, the grace of the Spirit opens in the conscious-
ness, and an ego is recognized as a beloved son or daugh-
ter. Grace, when genuinely identified, is conscious con-
formity to the governing Laws of Being.
Grace, in its human quality, is capacity to love that
which makes for wisdom and harmony. It is the will to
be what one knows one should be, even though mastery
of adverse forces is involved. Grace is willing obedience
to that which makes for the highest expression of Man,
124 Spiritual Significance of the Body
and is gained through mastering the forces adverse to
Truth. Grace and Truth go hand in hand, giving intel-
ligence to one's words, and love to one's voice. There is
a Principle of Grace extended in the operation of Divine
Laws, by which many unfolding states of consciousness
receive the influences of Truth, but it is not the purpose
of this book to set forth the details of Principles of Truth;
but only to relate them to the physical organism, as to
underlying qualities.
MEDITATION
Grace is present in word and action, promoting wisdom
and love.
The Power of the Spirit expresses by means of words,
when Truth is spoken.
Words, the forms of ideas, give substantiality of being,
when expressed in Grace and Truth.
SHOULDERS: RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUPPORT
THE Shoulders are the supporting factors of the
head. The head pertains to intelligence, hence, the
shoulders signify the supporting intelligence by
which we advance from one plane to another. These in-
telligences take the form of responsibilities on the outer
plane of living. It is through responsibilities that man
unfolds the faculties of consciousness, the giving of serv-
ices inviting a like receiving under exact Law. The
shoulders and the collar bones represent the supporting
and responsible intelligences that promote the unfold-
ment of the natural man.
Primarily, the Laws of God are directly or indirectly
responsible for all things. God is Principle and the Laws
of God pertain to the application of the Principles, by
which the righteous state of being is formed. This forma-
tion is dependent upon the ego becoming responsible on
the planes of development, finally attaining to responsi-
bility to the Laws of God, by which the real state of man
is fashioned and made. The unfoldment of all things on
the planes of living is the means by which the Plan of
God for Man is unfolded and enacted. This is not to say
that the Plan of God is unfolded and enacted in the forces
of mortality, but that these forces serve to prepare con-
sciousness to put on immortality, by which the Plan is
known.
Immortality is the identification of consciousness in
conformity to the Laws of God, by which the Principles
of Being (God) can harmoniously unfold. It is in iinmor-
tality that the Plan of God and its Laws can express,
revealing the harmonies of being. Mortality is a measure
of unfoldment by which the forces of spirit, soul, mind,
and body are progressed among men, that they may func-
tion the Qualities of Being, and permit the reality of being
(125)
126 Spiritual Significance of the Body
to manifest. The reality of being is Man conformed to
the Principles and Laws of God.
Chaos or darkness is the indirect unfoldment of con-
sciousness. While this phase of unfoldment could not
be without the Laws of God controlling, yet it is not an
expression of the Plan of God, but an adulterated aspect
of it. Sin is known because of the Truth, but the sin does
not issue from the Truth, but from consciousness iden-
tifying in darkness, or in lack of knowledge and love of
Truth. The unfoldment of mortality does not issue from
the Divine Laws, but from the chaos that is co-eternal
with cosmos; though mortality is the soil utilized to ad-
vance the factors of consciousness unto the attainment of
reality, or Christ Consciousness. When Christ Conscious-
ness is identified, the direct rulership of God is set up and
responsibility to the Divine Laws is upon every ego,
demanding an accounting of one's life to their require-
ments; that the goal set for man's attainment may be
reached.
Self-will consciousness, which is consciousness promot-
ing itself in lack of knowledge and love of God and its
governing Laws, assumes responsibilities for the advance-
ment of the self. Man, in self-will has choice, and can
choose to advance or not to advance. This choice is in
relation to his assuming responsibilities or not assuming
them. The responsibilities of the natural plane of living
are controlled by the ego, in free-will or choice. He can
make opportunities count for higher or lower advance-
ment, becoming responsible or not, according to the spirit
in which he works them out. One supports the unfold-
ment of substantial consciousness by assuming just
responsibilities.
Mortals can shirk responsibilities, or meet them as
though able to work them out, growing by the experience
by mastering the forces involved. Responsibilities are
invited by each ego in the karmic law. The karmic law is
the one of sowing and reaping. "Whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also reap." If the experiences one
attracts are not all that one would have them, the seed
Shoulders: Responsibility and Support 127
that invites them must be changed by mastering the forces,
and superseding them with an expression of higher intelli-
gence and love. Whatever one needs by which to grow is
present in the law of unfoldment. The fruit of tomorrow
is the result of the seeds sown today. If one would control
the tomorrows, let him control the todays.
Not anything happens by chance, for all things follow
a karmic law, until one has gained sufficient advancement
to connect with the inner governing Laws of God; when
one controls his destiny by consciously expressed intelli-
gence and feeling. When one is governed by Divine Laws
that support the natural and the spiritual unfoldment, one
can rest upon inner guidance, and permit the responsibil-
ity of progression to be carried by a higher power. This
is not to say that one's responsibilities are less, when so
governed, but that they are more easily borne. One has
no personal life to live after the Light of the Inner Prin·
ciples and Laws has been projected to the mind, for one's
responsibility is in applying these Principles and Laws.
The ego then finishes the karmic law and comes under the
law of the Spirit of Life in Christ (Truth). Love is the
fulfilling of the Law.
The responsibility of parents to their children is sym-
bolical of God's responsibility for the race. God is re-
sponsible for man's progression in providing the Plan to
be progressed, and when one has become conscious of
this Plan, one is sustained and supported in the Laws of
God. Consciousness, when developing through its free-
will state, is confined to a Plan of God but there is no
direct authority over man, except as is conveyed by the
, proper fulfilment of the natural forces of advancement.
God cannot do for egos what they have not capacity to
develop in their own doing power, therefore the necessity
of developing responsibility toward their fellowmen. Man
receives from God the equivalent of what has been given
toward his fellowmen.
Consciousness must attain to Truth to enter the re-
sponsibility of God and its Laws; that is, to have the Laws
of God operate in the direction of man to promote his
128 Spiritual Significance of the Body
spiritual and physical well-being. Egos serve all men
through serving God and its Laws, as well as serve God
by serving all men in justice and righteousness. When
an ego has reached the point of universal service, he or
she graduates from the necessity of further progression
in the law of sin and death that characterizes mortality;
and is free from being born again on the mortal plane.
It is at this point of advancement that all karmic debts
are paid, and the ego absorbs to itself all forces it has
progressed, superseding them with the Truth known, or
bringing them to nothingness.
Children who have to assuine responsibility toward par-
ents, as occasioned by old age or calamity, have an oppor-
tunity to pay their karmic debts and to go free from the
bondages of mortal progression; for the sooner they are
finished, the sooner the ego will be able to identify in
consciousness of immortality. The karmic law is finished
where it began, that is, in relation to fleshly ties. Re-
sponsibilities, well-assumed, prepare egos to be spiritu-
ally illumined, by which they establish freedom from the
bondages of mortality; or from necessity of further pro-
gressing in darkness and woe. Responsibilities on the
natural plane of living open to one according to one's
capabilities. One's calling is in keeping with the necessity
of promoting service to one's fellowmen. The center of
attraction is always within the consciousness. Others may
appear to influence by what they say and do, yet it is what
one thinks within one's self that determines responsibili-
ties, or one's lack of them.
Responsibility of parents ends where children become
self-supporting; though if parents cease to be self-support-
ing, responsibility of children assumes the status as that
of the parents when the children lacked capability of sup-
porting themselves. The necessity for children to become
self-supporting is not to relieve their parents, but for the
purpose of developing the self-consciousness and its re-
sponsibilities, by which genuine manhood and woman-
hood are promoted. Egos work to make the man or
woman they are to be, and not to make money. Money
Shoulders: Responsibility and Support 129
is the incentive by which they develop themselves. The
mastering of unrighteousness and the gaining of righteous
consciousness support the activity of Divine Laws, that
fashion man in the image and likeness of Being.
When one becomes a self-conscious ego, responsible and
reliable, substantiality of character is present, and the
deeper things of life may be known and worked out. Each
one is progressed according to capacities unfolded, each
inviting his own opportunities of mastery and victory
through the forces unfolding in the consciousness. All
things on the mortal plane present forces that must be
mastered, for not anything in mortal living conforms to
the Divine Laws that will govern man, when he proves his
freedom from karmic influences. One proves freedom
from karmic forces when one is able to master them and
to unfold a higher intelligence and love, in spite of the
conflicts they present. Man must earn his right to har-
mony and happiness, by mastering the forces of mor-
tality. This results in faculties of consciousness, by which
the inner Principles and Laws can unfold to promote the
harmonies and beauties of Life and Being.
The more advanced egos become the more responsibil-
ity they are given. "To him who hath been given much,
much is required of him; to him who hath been given
little, little is required of him." Yet, each according to
his works is expected to meet all issues of life successfully
and victoriously, this paving the way for the next step of
growth. One must develop responsibility in many direc-
tions. When one does not know the inner Laws govern-
ing man, one may feel that his or her responsibilities are
too heavy to be borne. This will result in round-shoul-
ders, stooped posture, as if "one were carrying the world
on his shoulders," as it is said.
Many burdens that people carry are forces of mentality
not properly understood. Many of the burdens are imag-
inary pictures of the mind, or worry and anxiety about
that which has not yet occurred. The seat of agitation is
within the mind. It is for the purpose of mental agitation
that man was turned away from the harmonies of Eden,
130 Spiritual Significance of the Body
and made to till the soil of his own consciousness. Yet,
the mental agitation does not begin in earnest until the
Truth is perceived, which is to perceive the inner Prin-
ciples and Laws governing the life of man. Then it is that
real responsibility to master the adverse forces that
make for inharmony enters the consciousness, for the
possibility of freedom in Truth is at hand. The adverse
forces are stimulated by the realizations of Truth, this
making the ego responsible in overcoming all oppositional
forces, by which he or she goes free from all inharmonies
and bondages.
One develops financial responsibility on the commer-
cial plane of mortal living. This enables one to develop
character, and to promote opportunities of self-expression.
Work is the means by which the unfolding qualities of
consciousness are given outer expression, and the inner
powers enter into the consciousness to make the man or
the woman. The belief that people work to earn money is
superseded, when intelligence reveals it, with the reali-
zation that one works to make oneself. Money is only an
incentive in making man, like the candy offered the child
is an incentive for the expression of services. Self-sup-
port is developed by the performance of services, with
money the incentive toward self-expression. Commercial
responsibilities promote support, though it is the attain-
ment of the qualities of consciousness that makes the man
which supports the unfoldment of the Principles and Laws
of God; for which purpose responsibilities exist that make
one self-supporting.
Financial responsibility becomes burdensome, if one
does not learn to rely upon the Infinite Resource. One
can practice this reliance only when mentally and spirit-
ually advanced. The natural man depends upon himself
and his efforts, not being able to discern the things of
God, unless the natural fails him and he is forced to seek
after the Real Self. One can, through mastering the mate-
rial forces, be opened to the inner spiritual qualities, an<l
in this way come to know the inner Principles and Laws,
and to be supported on all planes of expression by them.
Shoulders: Responsibility and Support 131
This is to say, that one can think and speak from a higher
intelligence, feel from a redeemed soul, aspire from a
different spirit of Life, and act from a will controlled by
intelligence. Man is not an animal, but is created to
express the righteousness and order and justice of God
and Its Principles and Laws.
There are social responsibilities that must be worked
out by all people. First, the responsibility that members
of a family owe each other, for the first line of defense,
relating to a member of a family, is the other members
of the family. Outer aid can be sought if family aid is
impossible, even as one develops the community spirit
after one has developed the family spirit. People exist in
families and in communities to serve each other, develop-
ing love and other qualities of character by their asso-
ciation. This service has its repulsive, as well as its attrac-
tive modes of expression. The important responsibilities
are not always pleasantly assumed. It is easy to assume
responsibilities when the reward is good, but to assume
them in spite of self-losses, and at the sacrifice of the
self, is an expression that develops consciousness above
the race-mind and thought, making for greater growth
and victory.
The most efficacious way of serving others is in meet-
ing all things in a responsible spirit, so that the forces
relating are controlled in thought and feeling. In the
degree that one individually masters an evil force, in that
degree mastery of that force has identified among men
in service to all. This responsibility entered the race the
last century, promoting in a group, advancing in intelli-
gence and love, the capacity to master racial forces, that
has led to a greater freedom among all people. Yet, each
ego can go free only through mastering within himself
the forces that make for bondage in the outer experiences.
Finally, when one's consciousness has attained to Truth,
one meets all things in service to it, seeking always to
bring "Satan and his angels" to nothingness, thereby es-
tablishing the responsibility of God and Christ among
men.
132 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Everyone must advance to the point where he stands
on his own responsibility. This is to say, one comes to
know that it is the unfoldment within the consciousness
that invites the good or ill into the life, and that one
must work out his or her own salvation. This does not
mean that one is unaided by the intelligence and victories
of others, but that one must apply to himself or herself
what is learned, thus consciously attaining the victory
over the forces that entice and ensnare, and that deliver
to bondage. One must assume conscious responsibility
in making the man or the woman. It is the trait of the
first Adam to say, or to believe, that what others say or
do has an effect upon the life. It is what one thinks and
does in his or her own consciousness that forms all the
connections, good or ill, that life presents. It is what one
thinks and feels about what others say and do that affects
the life, for others have no power to affect one, except as
one gives power to their expressions. This realization
makes everyone a center of responsibility, before God
and before one's fellowmen.
One has responsibilities on all planes of living that are
shared by others, like parents share responsibility in rear-
ing a family, or the members of a firm in promoting a
business. The responsibility of the particular ego is hjs
or her own, and one is most influenced by what he or she
thinks, feels, or does; regardless of what others say, think,
or do. This is the truth, regardless of appearances, and
once realized makes for glad responsibility in handling
every matter, whatever its character, by which victory is
realized. One is not a man or a woman in any sense of
the word until this step of responsibility is taken.
The shoulders of man are affected principally by that
which affects muscles, blood, and nerves. They are most
important as factors of consciousness, standing for re-
sponsibility by which one supports the unfoldment of the
Real Self. The scripture, which is an inner record of
man's unfoldment, clearly indicates that righteous gov-
ernment rests upon the shoulder of Christ. Christ is the
Truth. Truth is responsible for righteous government.
Shoulders: Responsibility and Support 133
Righteous government is primarily the forces of spirit,
soul, mind, and body controlled to Divine Principles and
Laws; revealed when one has mastered the self and has
died to the self-will and desires. When Truth is uni-
versalized, righteous government for all men begins its
unfoldment, it being present in consciousness conformed
to Principles of Being. This consciousness, projected into
the race, in Laws of God, sets the standard of righteous
government for all men, at the same time reducing the
temporary governments to disorder, for dissolution and
nothingness; though the failing of unrighteous govern-
ments is automatically attended with the revelation of
Principles of righteous government.
The establishment of the self-consciousness in subjec-
tion to the I, and the I in subjection to the I Am, or Christ-
Truth, through dying to the self, places upon one the
responsibility of universal service. Universal service is
possible only through one attained to universal spirit.
Universal spirit is the Spirit of God identified, the dis-
semination of the Christ-Qualities into the race. Uni-
versality of consciousness differs from the individual in
that it is the understanding in Truth of all things relating
to the race, with the subjection of these forces to Truth.
Universal service issues from Christ, and is for the pur-
pose of bringing racial consciousness into subjection to
the Principles and Laws of God.
Universal service attends the second coming of Christ,
when the kingdom of this world becomes the kingdom
of God and His-Her Christ. It is at this time that the
racial conditions are universally disturbed, and all people
are forced to seek after a higher understanding of Life
and its governing Laws, through the dying down of
interest relating to materiality and its course of living.
The universal unfoldment and service of an ego are in
the mastery of the forces of the race, because the Quali-
ties of Truth, unfolded individually are disseminated into
the race, as a Standard of attainment, and as a Judgment
against that which cannot conform. The individual un-
foldment of Truth deals with that which springs up within
134 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the consciousness, by which the adverse forces are mas-
tered and subjected to the Truth. The individual attains
Truth or Christ Consciousness, thus becoming a servant
of God by which the universal or racial advancement is
served, this operating to prove up the race at the ends
of cycles, and to advance the planetary forces; for the
progression of the planet and the race is in one action of
Divine Laws.
The responsibility of God that makes the race, enters
the race at the ends of cycles of progression, and is lib-
erated as Principles of Truth that prove the progression
of the people and the fruit of the cycle. It is at the end
of the cycle that the ego can say, "The Father worketh
hitherto, and I work; now, I of myself do nothing; the
Father within, he doeth. the works." This is the case,
however, only when one has contacted the Father with,in,
or has been opened to Divine Laws. Those not so posi-
tioned have the opportunity to rapidly advance, if intelli-
gence and love permit, at the ends of cycles, when the
stimulating powers of the Spirit enter the race; though
there is a standing at the end of a cycle, of the righteous
states of consciousness on one side, and the unrighteous
on the other. A tree cannot change the nature of its fruit
when it is in blossom.
The shoulders of the physical organism should be up-
right. It is a fact that as righteousness is promoted one's
carriage is affected. One is more upright physically as
one is more upright mentally, unless deformity prevents.
Uprightness relates to the entire spine. The development
of more "backbone" in meeting the issues of life has a
harmonizing effect upon the whole organism. The body
is to the consciousness what a violin is to the violinist,
the instrument upon which the forces of harmony or in-
harmony are liberated. Man's responsibility is to deliver
the body to the inner Principles and Lawi:;, by subjecting
the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and will. When this is
done the responsibility of God, that of making Man in
the image and likeness of the Creative Laws, can fulfil
itself. Man, in divine-human nature, will love responsi-
Shoulders: Responsibility and Support 135
bility for all things will work to promote the harmonies
of life and being.
When consciousness has attained to genuine responsi-
bility, measuring its qualities of unfoldment to the inner
Principles and Laws, it will be supported by the Divine
Will that sustains and protects. The curse of labor ends
when one can rely upon the inner Substance for support
and sustenance, knowing that the Creative Laws that
made man can also support him. A righteous compre-
hension of the governing Laws of God also reveals the
principles of righteous government, and establishes a
substantial financial system that assures support to every
citizen, in order and justice. Every ego arriving at the
age of responsibility, or the age of twenty-one, will assume
governmental services and be self-supporting. Women
will be citizens in equality with men, and command their
financial support through the unfolding qualities of fheir
own being. The limited aspects of support that have
characterized the commercial world in mortality will be
offset, and a whole new order of industry and finance will
characterize the immortal race. The establishment of
the government that rests upon the Shoulder (Responsi-
bility) of Christ or Truth places all people in righteous
relation to each other, promoting righteousness and
justice.
MEDITATION
I am responsible for all activities of living and conform
them to Truth.
I am responsible to my fellowmen through serving the
inner Principles and Laws.
I bear all responsibilities, as of the Divine Laws, and
rejoice in mastery and victory.
ARMS AND HANDS: GIVING AND
RECEIVING
THE Arms and Hands, two each in number, repre-
sent the capacity of Love to express. Giving and
receiving, in balance, is the Law of Love. The
power of Love is the capacity to give in such a spirit as
to control receiving, the two being one in Divine Law of
Love. This is possible only when one's giving is prompted
by service to the Inner Spirit. The arms and hands
signify the power of man to express away from himself,
and to receive his own; though not until the dual nature
is balanced in its two poles can man receive his own in
the Divine Law of Love.
The Arms represent the power of extension, and are
the means by which the forces of consciousness go out
for multiplication, though this also includes the power
to return the increase to the giver. The hands are the
outlet for the unfolding forces of consciousness, and the
fingers signify the means by which opportunities are
grasped. This is their spiritual significance, for the func-
tions and forms of the natural hide, in figure, the quali-
ties of the spiritual. The arms, hands, and fingers, in
material sense, can represent the grasping power of the
mortal, stimulated by the greedy desire to get. Getting
is reverse to giving, and its spirit is opposite to the spirit
of Love that governs abundant receiving.
The Arms, relating to the chest region, in contradis-
tinction to the lower limbs relating to the abdomen, repre-
sent the qualities of love going forth. Love is the ex-
pression of righteous power, though the power to express
love is the will in righteous action. When the love of
consciousness is polarized, through dual states being con-
trolled as one, the power of the Spirit is expressed, and
the will to be the real state of being is set into operation.
The will of being is the love to be, and the combined will
and love of being is the power of being; or the power to
be the real state of Man.
[136]
Arms and Hands : Giving and Receiving 137
The Love Principle centers to the heart, though the
heart is the spirit of consciousness. The spirit of Giving
and Receiving is the spirit of love going forth in righteous
services to one's fellowmen. This is also to serve God.
Balanced Giving and Receiving is the Principle of Love
in action. This balance is present when one gives with
no thought of receiving, fully conscious of the Truth that
Giving and Receiving are one. This consciousness pro-
motes expression of Qualities of Being, and gives exten-
sion to their activity and multiplication. When one gives
fully, whatever be one's expression of service, a certain
aspect of love is expressed, this inviting a more generous
receiving; whereas, if one gives in a niggardly spirit,
working in a spirit of disinterest, he or she will receive
in a like spirit. What one gives expression to in one direc-
tion may be returned from another, there being no balance
on the mortal plane of living.
It is written that the Hand of God is not shortened,
meaning that the power of God going forth in the Prin-
ciple of Divine Love, which is the Will of God expressing,
can accomplish that for which it is expressed. The set-
ting upon God of the belief of Hands and Heatt, and other
names of physical organs, has been the reason for people
considering God to be person. The understanding of the
members of the body in their spiritual significances, trans-
lating the organs to qualities of consciousness, gives an
entirely different comprehension of both God and man.
The tendency to consider God in terms of physical organ-
ism is balanced by the tendency to consider man in terms
of spiritual qualities : even translating the physical organ-
ism to its underlying qualities, this making for union of
God and man.
Giving and Receiving, in perfect balance, is harmony
and love expressing. To give expression to anything, out
of the love of expressing it, is to liberate the spirit of
Giving, and to invite its equivalent receiving. "The gift
without the giver is bare," implies the necessity of the
giver having the proper spirit of giving. The spirit of
giving is love. Love gives, hoping for nothing in return;
138 Spiritual Significance of the Body
that is, not needing to hope for return receiving, because
established in the realizations that giving is receiving. It
is the reverse aspect of this Law of Love that promotes
the natural good of mortals, though this good partakes of
the nature of materiality. The Law of Divine Love is
reversed on the plane of mortality, the exchange of sexual
love promoting material prosperity.
When one gives to receive, the gift is selfishly expressed,
and the spirit of selfishness obstructs the capacity to re-
ceive. One always receives as he gives. Yet, one will
say he or she has given generously and received no con-
sideration in return. It is quite possible that the giving
was expressed in the selfish spirit and the receiving is
in the same spirit, that is, nothing. The selfish spirit has
no standing before the governing Laws of Life, therefore
any giving in that spirit is failure to receive, for the giving
is without the spirit of giving, hence is naught. This con-
dition of giving will account for what appears to be lack
of receiving; yet, the receiving has been in the spirit of
the giving, in lack and nothingness. .
One may give and yet withhold in his or her spirit of
serving, therefore the receiving is withheld because it is
in a like spirit with the giving. Giving is not in the exter-
nal thing expressed, but it is in the spirit that prompts the
expression. "There is that which maketh himself rich,
yet hath nothing; there is that which maketh himself poor,
yet hath great wealth." When living in the duality of
consciousness, one of the duals governs the other, there-
fore the control of the spirit of one is the control of the
spirit of the other. The dual aspect, most consciously
realized, is the governing one. Receiving is much more
developed in mortal consciousness than giving. Receiving
takes the form of getting, or trying to get, this being a
violation of the law of receiving that hinges upon freedom
in giving.
The letter profiteth nothing. It is the spirit that quicken-
eth. To give in order to receive is to give in the letter of
the law and to receive accordingly; for one sets the
standard of receiving by the spirit of his or her giving.
Arms and Hands: Giving and Receiving 139
This may mean that one receives nothing, or something
that is not desired, when one gives in the letter of the law.
It is the spirit of giving that is important, not the letter
or the thing given expression to. If one is true to the
spirit of giving, it will invite its equivalent receiving in
exact Law of Divine Love; though the spirit of giving must
pivot to the spirit of Divine Love for a perfect expression
of its Law.
One may give much in a given direction because the
spirit of giving prompts, and apparently be disregarded
as to receiving, but this has no power to prevent the
equivalent receiving returning to the giver in heaped-up,
pressed-down, and running-over measure. It is in the
Law of Divine Love that Giving and Receiving are in
perfect balance. How this balance works out on the
outer plane is not for one to conjecture, for to do so is
to violate the spirit of giving and to set up obstructions,
thus modifying the receiving. However, if this is the
state of consciousness, the modified receiving is one with
the modified spirit of giving, leaving unchanged the Law
of Giving and Receiving as one.
One may cast bread upon the waters, not considering
any receiving, and in the course of fulfilment it comes
back in heaped-up measure of increase, proving that
Giving and Receiving are in balance. Love is the fulfill-
ing of the Law. The love of giving that offsets the thought
of receiving, that is based upon Principle and the neces-
sity to keep the Principle, is the Love that fulfils all Law.
Yet, not one jot or tittle of the law can pass until all shall
be fulfilled, therefore Love is the climax of law fulfilled.
The law is expression, giving and receiving, sowing and
reaping. But before the Principle of Love can be known,
people express through necessity, setting up sowing that
is not compatible with proper receiving, thus promoting
obligations and responsibilities that must work out on
the natural plane. The mastering of all the opposing
forces, developed in mortality in lack of love and knowl-
edge of God and its Laws, is the fulfilment of the law
of karma; by which the Law of Divine Love can set itself
140 Spiritual Significance of the Body
into action in the life and affairs.
The expression of love is in service. Principle must
govern the expression of service if one would touch the
Law of Divine Love. One must be highly principled on
the plane of natural living before one can be conformed
to spiritual principles, or know what they are. This
means that one must be fair-minded, impartial, unbiased,
honest, true, sincere, faithful, loyal, genuine in feeling
and word; all these expressions of qualities of character
being the righteous nature of giving. Service is not in
what is done, but the spirit in which it is expressed. If
one does not work in a spirit of order, efficiency, honesty,
one is not giving righteous service, and is directly cutting
off one's own righteous receiving. This conduct, on the
part of unfaithful givers, necessitates the system of greedy
giving and receiving that characterizes the plane of mortal
living.
Giving is not in the things exchanged, or in deeds, but
in the spirit that prompts expression. Giving is as much
an expression of mental qualities as of outer things. It
is the spirit of giving that must prompt the outer exchange
of services. This is the spirit of love that is impersonal
and selfless. Since only egos who have transcended the
selfish spirit, through mastering the forces of the natural
plane and ascending to the spiritual, are impersonal and
selfless in spirit, it follows that the Law of Giving and
Receiving, which is the Law of Love, can operate perfectly
only in the lives of the spiritually progressed.
The power of love expresses on the outer plane of living
in services performed. Service, by means of acts, relates
to consciousness for which the hands and arms stand.
The opportunities promoted by such services are con-
structive or destructive, according to the spirit that
prompts their expressions. The desire to get, which
prompts so much expression of the mortal man, is a vio-
lation of the Law of Love which centers to the desire to
give. The desire to give, without thought of receiving,
is necessary to permit the action of the Law of Divine
Love, by which the giver is genuinely blessed. Getting is
Arms and Hands: Giving and Receiving 141
a primary step of growth, common to mortals.
The right arm is positive, the left is negative. This
applies also to the hands. The right is masculine, the
left is feminine. The body is identified in duality, though
a certain coordination exists between the complementary
dual poles in a state of health. It is the polarity of the
male and the female qualities of consciousness that make
up the organism that promotes harmony, and offsets the
tendency of disease. However, this polarity is possible
only in the immortal organism, though its capacity is pro-
moted by a more harmonized expression on the plane of
mortality.
The Arms represent the horizontal bar of the Cross,
and pertain to the love of the neighbor; the perpendicular
bar standing for the Love of God projected toward man
and the universe. The love of the neighbor is the capac-
ity of man to serve his fellowmen, when his expressions
are governed by the Love of God. The love of the neigh-
bor is premised to the Love of the Lord, or the action of
God in consciousness. The Love of the Lord is the result
of conforming the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body
to the inner Laws of Being. The greatest service that
man can render, and by which the nature of love is deter-
mined, is to die to oneself. This is to subject the forces
of spirit, soul, mind, and body to the Truth, by which all
delusions and lies are offset. It is this attainment of Love
that makes for spiritual birth, by which the temple of the
body can be revealed. This is the spiritual state of being,
begotten from the immortal character of man.
The immortal character of man is the spiritual. The
spiritual is an exact opposite of the mortal. The natural
is the mortal, though not until consciousness controls all
forces of itself to the I is the natural expression of the
mortal man identified. This is the identification of the
human characteristics, in contradistinction to the animal
tendencies that beset the selfish ego. The human pre-
pares the way for the opening of the spiritual qualities,
by which the immortal man is identified. When immortal
man is identified, the Love of the Lord will unfold in
142 Spiritual Significance of the Body
keeping with Divine Will, and the love of the neighbor
will be naturally expressed.
Inharmonies relating to the arms and hands and fingers
are incidental to the nerves, blood, and muscles, though
accident, induced by thought and feeling not conformed
to Love, is always a destructive factor of mortal living.
Exercising the qualities of love and service assures more
harmonious circulation of blood and nerve energy. How-
ever, too much activity on the plane of the material pro-
motes inharmony, for there is no balance on the mate-
rial plane. The body is inharmoniously influenced by
the mental attitudes that do not conform to peace and
harmony, order and truth. Mind, freed from the limita-
tions of sense beliefs and opinions, promotes the free-
flowing Life of the Spirit, establishing the whole organism
in health and wholeness. Wholeness, however, of a real
nature, can be present only when all dual states are estab-
lished as one, through understanding the two for the
purpose they were created. This is to establish con-
sciousness in the Single Eye, or Light of Mind, by which
the whole body can be full of light. This condition will
characterize consciousness identified in immortality, that
is subjected to the unfolding Principles of Truth and
Being. However, spiritual birth must operate to bring
forth reality of being, before consciousness is freed from
sin, pain, and sorrow.
Immortality, as a principle, is projected into the race
in the second coming of Christ. The first coming of Christ
was the subjection of the positive forces of consciousness
to the Divine Laws. For this reason, it is written that
the ego through whom Christ was first functioned, sat
down at the right Hand of God. The second coming of
Christ is the subjection of the negative forces of con-
sciousness to the Divine Laws. This is to permit the left
Hand of God to be identified in power, by which the
Divine Love, which is the Feminine Principle of Christ,
can penetrate the race-consciousness for its rebirth. This
is the projection of the Mother Principle of God that is one
with the Father, the forces of the natural ·and of the
Arms and Hands: Giving and Receiving 143
spiritual domains of consciousness being subjected to
Christ at the second coming.
When the negative forces of consciousness are sub-
jected to Christ, by whom is the authority of God in the
earth, the hidden forces of darkness, hell, and death are
uncovered for their annihilation; but the Arm of God
is not shortened, that He cannot save. The restoration
of the body to its immortal qualities marks the time of
the great trial upon the earth. This extends not only to
the particular egos, as organisms of consciousness, but
to the body of the race, identified as government. Body
is form, and the form of all things is disrupted and dis-
organized, pending rebirth and spiritual organization;
when the Left Hand of God is joined with the Right in the
expression of Divine Love and Wisdom.
It is interesting to note that the weapons of war are
called "arms." They denote the powers of destruction,
and are reverse to the powers of Love that comfort, uplift,
and enlighten. A mother holds a child in her arms to
show affection, embraces on any plane involving the
arms, signifying their relation to the expression of love.
Yet, Love is Principle when reduced to its spirit, therefore
has its expression among men when principled states of
consciousness are identified and serve each other. The
two arms form a circle, typifying the endless Love that
flows from consciousness, when union with God is
established.
Giving and Receiving promote balance, equality, reci-
procity, and harmony. When identified in the spirit of
oneness, duality is overcome and wholeness can mani-
fest. Sickness is present in the organism because oneness
is absent. Oneness must be established at center, in
union of God and man, before it can work itself out in
the organism of consciousness and give spiritual birth
to the ego. Giving and Receiving relate to the commer-
cial world, being a form of selling and buying. Balanced
finances are predicated upon balanced giving and receiv-
ing. Balanced giving and receiving, commercially ex-
pressing, promote honesty, justice, fair-play and consid-
144 Spiritual Significance of the Body
eration in all matters of business, by which the Golden
Rule dominates the greed for gold. Finances are the
outermost aspect of an expression of service, being the
love of life identified in the world of effects. Through
mastering all things on the outer plane, as they relate
to finances, one promotes the natural man into the capac-
ity to be opened to the operation of the inner Laws of
Love.
The Hands are centers of emanation of energies, as
well as receivers. They especially relate to the Cross of
Christ, the Law of Projection, for they carry energies
from center and receive energies from circumference.
The piercing of the hands with nails, on the Cross, is a
figure of the opening of the centers in the palms of the
hands, that constitute regenerating points of forces given
out and received. These are complemented by centers
in the feet, the lower and the upper limbs polarizing the
consciousness in Love and Will, by which the Power of
the Spirit is disseminated. This is the mystical relation
of the hands and feet, as witnessed in the operation of
Divine Laws in an ego, sanctified in universal service.
Spiritual progression, that relates to the Spirit in the
application of its Principles to the outer plane, is identi-
fied through an ordered progression on the plane of the
natural. Spiritual is the actualization of the Qualities
of the Spirit. These are understood and known because
their activities have been set up in the consciousness.
This is the real way of spiritual unfoldment; though the
projection of what is known of the action of the Qualities
of the Spirit toward circumference, in thought, word, feel-
ing, and action, endows the receivers with the capacity
of a like opening within their consciousnesses, by which
they come into the knowing of the Principles of the Spirit.
The Law of Giving and Receiving is operative on all
planes, as from the center to the circumference. It is
the Law of Love in modes of expression and progression.
Life is so ordered that the many expressions of the natural
plane, understood and controlled, lead to the unfoldment
of the spiritual. Thus the body constitutes the organism
Arms and Hands: Giving and Receiving 145
that houses the ego, and shares in the influences of the
qualities unfolded within the consciousness. The ema-
nated energies of the unfolding Qualities of the Spirit
the last century, since the movement of the Divine Laws
to prepare the way for the completion of mortality, have
been projected toward the body, this giving rise to a
greater expression of health; as well as more advanced
healing methods. The completion of mortality is auto-
matically attended with the identification of immortality,
though it is the opening of the principles of immortality
that governs the overthrow of mortality.
The movement of the Divine Laws climaxes itself in
the movement of the Principle of Divine Love at the end
of mortality, preparing the way for the identification of
the race in potential immortality;·and the spiritual birth
of those who partake of the Spirit. The bodily result of
this movement of Divine Love is the redeemed body, this
becoming the polarized center of all positive and negative
forces, by which the One, or Christ Spirit can be pro~
jected to the forces of the entire race and the planet.
Thus the Power of the union of the Right Hand and the
Left Hand of God is permitted to go forth, overthrowing
the power of the world and the forces of mortality. This
is the universal service of Divine Love, the result of
balanced Giving and Receiving, as from Man (individual)
to God and from God to Man (race; universal).
The Law of Divine Love, as the Law of balanced Giving
and Receiving, invites its own, gathering to itself the first-
fruits unto God and Christ. It also provides for the re-
birth of the race, by which all people acceptable to its
outworking, will grow in the direction of the Love of
the Lord, by promoting the love of the neighbor under
righteous government; to which they are subjected at the
identification of potential immortality. Thus the Prin-
ciple of Love, promoted in aspects of forces of love in
the race, reaches its climax, giving birth to Man as God
created him to be. Mortal love, utilized to reproduce
mortals, when law of mortality is fulfilled leads to the
gaining of Divine Love, by which immortality is identi-
146 Spiritual Significance of the Body
fled. This is accomplished, however, through the death
of mortal love rather than through its life.
The race as Man is the Body of the Creation, the cir-
cumference of the Center, by which the harmonies of
God can unfold in the earth or formed plane, in keeping
with the Principle of Divine Love. All victories made
on the plane of the body are for the purpose of central-
izing consciousness to Truth, by which the Principle of
Divine Love (God) can subject all things unto itself. Then
the Law of Giving and Receiving will be omnipresent, and
man will ever be in the presence of the unfolding har-
monies of Being.
MEDITATION
I am established in equality of Giving and Receiving.
I grasp only that which makes for Love and Truth.
I express in Love, thereby promoting the neighbor's
good.
RIBS: ACCIDENT AND PROTECTION
THE Ribs, twenty-four in number, signify the basic
number, dualized. The basic number is twelve.
Twelve signifies completion, though dualized, it is
twenty-four. As to ribs, the twenty-four are divided into
seven true or sternal ribs, and five false or asternal ribs,
on each side. The seven true ribs represent center, the
five false ribs circumference. The seven true ribs cor-
respond to the seven primal Qualities of Being, the five
false ribs to the five senses. The true and the false are
dual poles, relating to mortality, and when polarized give
rise to consciousness of the One, or Truth. All twos or
duals are controlled by the One. The physical organism
reflects the twos of mind, and indicates the formation of
the earthly, as from the Twain (two). The Twain is
formed from the One, and is not dual, but one in spirit.
The seven true ribs on each side attach to the sternum,
or breast bone. This bone signifies the center of Love,
being situated in the chest region, the seat of the union
of the soul and the spirit. The five false ribs on each side
attach to ribs above and are sometimes called floating ribs.
The twenty-four ribs signify the twenty-four elders of
consciousness, or the twelve centers, dualized, and con-
nect with the central seat of the nervous system and the
dissemination of its forces. While the nervous system
has its function in the nerves of the spinal column, the
ribs also center to the spinal column, articulating by
means of vertebrae at their dorsal ends.
The twelve ribs on each side indicate the duality of
the twelve centers of consciousness, this identifying as
twenty-four centers in the physical system. The twenty-
four of the individual physical system become forty-eight
in the racial system, this having its completeness in the
government of the United States, which represents the
perfected body of man. That the ribs are the framework
by which the body is held upright and the internal organs
[147]
148 Spiritual Significance of the Body
protected also signify their relation, as to forces, to the
fundamental twelve principles of consciousness, by which
form is produced. The interior processes of the Laws
of Being are back of the plane of form, but are protected
from contact with the outer plane, until the outer con-
sciousness is brought under the control of the govern-
ing Laws of Being. This is to say, that the mortal man
does not contact the protection of the Divine Laws,
though he may partake of their influences through de-
veloped spiritual love and intelligence.
The Ribs are the supporting factors of the chest, giv-
ing man upright position. The ribs of animals are almost
exclusively related to the thoracic region, affording pro-
tection of the organs enclosed, as well as support. Being
positive and negative in their position, they signify the
masculine and the feminine forces of consciousness, in
pairs, as well as indicate the external position of males
and females. The ribs are very significant of the twelve
centers of consciousness, polarized, that is, of male and
female qualities that support the unfoldment of the con-
sciousness of Man; and suggest protection of the interior
principles unfolding. The internal organs, protected by
the ribs, signify interior principles, though the vital organs
relate to the spiritual, while the organs of the alimentary
tract pertain to the material nature of man.
Protection inheres in the Principle of Love. Protec-
tion implies something against which consciousness
should be protected. The Love Principle has its cen-
tralization as the heart of consciousness, signified by the
heart in the chest region, which is protected by the ribs.
Mortal man is protected from utilizing the qualities and
forces of the Love Principle by being turned away from
Eden, hence is not permitted to adulterate the spiritual
forces of love. The introduction of the spiritual energies
into the niaterial man, if this were possible, would result
in the destruction of the material consciousness, without
it having opportunity to complete itself on the plane of
the natural. When the natural is completed and the con-
sciousness is ready to receive the corresponding spiritual,
Ribs: Accident and Protection 149
it is opened to understand the spiritual, in the degree that
it masters the adverse forces that arise in the material
or darkness. Consciousness is thus protected from laying
hold of the current of spiritual energies to its hurt, re-
ceiving them only as it gives up attachment to the cor-
responding material forces.
Man needs to be protected in many ways. Mentally,
one is protected against false conclusions, by mental
agitation that arises from within, or from contact with
others. This forces thought, this process continuing until
one can think only that which relates to Principles of
Truth. On the plane of the soul, one is protected from
becoming enmeshed in emotions that are contrary to
the Principle of Divine Love, by the dissatisfaction and
inharmony they promote. This dissatisfaction forces
growth and further development of the feeling nature,
until, disillusioned on the plane of the senses, egos seek
after the Love of the Spirit which alone generates quali-
ties of being that are eternal.
Physically, man needs protection in outer ways. The
world of chaos develops many forces that are detrimental
to the well-being of man, and against which he must be
protected. Accident is the most common affliction on the
plane of chaos. Accidents are the result of forces of
darkness progressing, without the modifying and con-
trolling power of Light. They are incidental to a world
that is not absolutely balanced or controlled in Divine
Laws, but which is promoted in disorder, injustice, and
inharmony. One can protect oneself only from accident
through diligent attention, through offsetting fear, through
developing courage, and through surrounding oneself with
the protecting power of Divine Love; though one must
be spiritually advanced to merit spiritual protection.
Divine Love can protect only when consciousness receives
its protecting power, through casting out fear and through
relying upon the all-pervading forces of the Omnipresent
Spirit.
Accidents are not a happenstance, nor are they automa-
tic in formation. They are the climaxed results of false
150 Spiritual Significance of the Body
and wrong combinations of thoughts, feelings, words, and
actions that infest the mortal world. Accidents are to the
outer plane what storms are to the inner plane of the
planet, the accumulated result of combinations of destruc-
tive forces, liberating themselves at times when there is
no controlling intelligence. When intelligence is alert,
and the ego is relying upon the supremacy of Divine Love,
accidents may be prevented. Hence, it is said that most
accidents are the result of carelessness or neglect, mean-
ing they are due to lack of intelligent thought and alert-
ness. Children are trained to be alert to prevent accident,
this training belonging to the mortal life, progressing in
chaos. One can so transcend the chaotic forces as to be
opened in the supremacy of the forces of cosmos or intel-
ligence, and claim protection from the Higher Powers.
However, this protection must be invited through spiritual
thought and feeling, words and deeds.
Many safe-guards against accident are practiced by peo-
ple, but the more complex mortality becomes the more
progressed the race is in materiality, and the greater is the
current of accident. There is no progression without
waste, and waste registers as accidents by which people
are taught. Mortals learn by calamity and attempt to
offset the accident current by providing external rules
of protection, all of which aid on the outer plane of living,
but do not constitute· the current of protection upon which
one can absolutely rely. Protection that is dependable
must come from the Inner Spirit. It must come from a
reliance upon the Truth that Man is surrounded and pro-
tected by Divine Love, and no influence of chaos can pre-
vent this protection. It is easily discernible that one would
have to be unfolding spiritually to claim the protecting
power of the Spirit; therefore it can be seen that many,
not so unfolding, are left to their own alertness and atten-
tion to protect themselves against the darkness of chaos
that is continually arising in forms of destruction.
It is a scientific fact that light or darkness, as to forces
of consciousness, is promoted by the ego by the thought
and feeling entertained. One can become so engrossed
Ribs: Accident and Protection 151
with feelings of hatred, revenge, malice, jealousy, injus-
tice, and kindred thoughts and feelings as to precipitate
the forces of accident, and to be caught in their destruc-
tive influences. It is well to have attained to the capacity
to discern that what one thinks and feels against another
is thought and felt against oneself. This conclusion forces
the selfish consciousness to protect itself, also forcing ex-
. pression of protection toward others. "Whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also reap." If man sows to the winds
of destruction, he will reap the whirlwind.
Mortals are endowed with fear as a safe-guard against
accidents and inharmonies. While one may fear any-
thing enough to invite the disaster it promotes, yet,
normally expressed fear that couples with alertness of
mind forms a protection to mortals, in the absence of
higher capacity to protect themselves. The fear of being
run down by an automobile makes one alert to assure
safety, this being constructive in its outworking rather
than destructive. Yet, because one is alert to avoid acci-
dent does not imply that one fears the accident in such a
way as to invite calamity. The development of courage
annihilates some of the primal fears, but it is not neces-
sary to become foolhardy to be brave. If intelligence does
not govern consciousness, fear must afford protection,
though consciousness must attain to that point of progres-
sion where "Perfect Love casts out all fear." Perfect
Love is possible only in spiritual understanding, and is
the result of reliance upon the governing Divine Laws;
because one has died to the self and has come under their
jurisdiction.
Mentally unfolding students include in their wordy
rituals the affirmations of protection. This is good prac-
tice, for the reason that the declaration of a truth will
open in consciousness the forces adverse to the ideas of
truth, from which one should protect oneself. When one
declares, "I am established in the fearless Christ Spirit,"
the opposing forces of fear quicken that they may be con-
trolled. There would be no cleansing of the conscious-
ness, without this necessity and conflict. One would only
152 Spiritual Significance of the Body
attempt to put the new wine of ideas into the old con-
sciousness, without changing the nature, if one was not
forced to take dominion over the adverse forces as they
arise. One can claim protection in the name of Jesus
Christ, the name standing for the action of God in Man,
this inviting something of the influences of the Principles
represented, according to one's capacity to receive them.
The greater the progression of Wisdom and Love in
the consciousness, the less one needs protection; though
one positioned in oneness of consciousness, is the most
attacked by the adversaries of Truth. One so positioned
is in mastery of the adverse forces, through individual
unfoldment, but is also delegated to master the opposi-
tional universal forces to Truth. One performing uni-
versal service is identified in the Principles of Divine Love
and Wisdom, therefore is protected in the spirit they
emanate; however much the adverse racial forces may
attack the consciousness, centered in Truth.
Accidents are opposite to protection, yet, if conscious-
ness, by its qualities of forces, is not related to the inner
governing Laws so as to consciously offset accidents, it
may be subconsciously protected in the midst of them.
Thus people have peculiar experiences in the form of
accidents, but escape unhurt because an invisible protect-
ing power is in action, though it may not be consciously
discerned. All the constructive, balanced, and harmon-
ious forces of thought and feeling, stored up in the con-
sciousness, act as protecting energies to man in times of
need. On the other hand, all the destructive forces of
thought and feeling, stored up in the consciousness, pro-
mote their own forces, and are attractive to invite the
accidents and calamities that attend progression.
The need of protection gives rise to insurance. Fire
and life insurance are the common ones relating to the
accident and protection current. While life insurance
cannot protect the one insured, it is considered a mortal
forethought of those bereaved by the death of the one
insured. Fire insurance is a protection against the ele-
ments, in that it may enable one to re-establish what has
Ribs: Accident and. Protection 153
been destroyed. It is not that any kind of insurance can
protect one from accidents and calamities, but that it can
provide financial means for rehabilitation, in case of
destruction.
Death is the greatest accident that can befall man.
Separated from the inner Principles of Being, identified ·
in lack of coordination of the male and the female
energies of Qualities of Being, mortals are subject to
death. Death, in its relation to the eternal Laws of Being,
is an accident, though man will continue to be subject to
this accident until he is spiritually born, and graduates
from the necessity of being mortally born. The offset to
death is the offsetting of birth. Birth and death promote
the law of sin and death. This law is superseded by the
Law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus, which is the Law
of Divine Love. The Law of Divine Love makes for spir-
itual birth and the living death, though it ultimates in the
establishment of the eternal being of man that does not
need to be born again. If such a consciousness still needs
to depart this world, by means of death as a dissolving
factor of the remnant of mortality, the death is in the
Lord, even as was the life; death having no power to
affect the eternal character gained in attaining to ~on­
sciousness of Christ or Truth.
Life insurance is animate, fire insurance is inanimate.
This is to say that life insurance relates to consciousness,
while fire insurance relates to outer things. It is not life
insurance that promotes death, though reliance upon the
protecting laws of materiality, as insurance implies, pre-
vents reliance upon the Divine Laws that sustain and
support. Therefore those placing their reliance upon the
protecting Laws of God cease to be interested in the mate-
rial laws of protection, such as life insurance implies.
These seek to become members of the family of God,
therefore go free from the karmic law that necessitates
the upkeep of life insurance for financial protection.
When karmic laws relate one's interests to others, one
may have to suffer the limitation of life insurance until
the dependents are established in self-responsibility and
154 Spiritual Significance of the Body
support.
Fire insurance is a business necessity, occasioned by
calamity that is promoted on the mortal plane. It aff01ds
some financial protection in case of loss by fire, but would
be unnecessary if a substantial financial system charac-
terized the race. It is possible, when one has mastered
the outer destructive forces, by mastering their cor-
respondences within the consciousness, to fearlessly con-
nect with insurance without promoting the sense of acci-
dent or calamity. But, consciousness leaning with fear
upon these outer modes of protection, promotes the forces
of calamity and suffers the things that are feared.
The Ninety-first Psalm is the best insurance policy one
can have. Its declarations can be relied upon, if one is
spiritually progressed enough to permit their action in
the life. When one has taken a stand for Divine Protec-
tion, one can understand the outer modes of protection,
but would not fare so well under them. So long as con-
sciousness is in fear of calamity, it aids in promoting the
conditions feared. However, the race has developed
modes of protection in the forms of insurance, looking
upon them in financial ways, and is thus protected from
too much thought upon the possibility of calamity. If
this were not the case, calamities would be more preva-
lent because of the protective insurance promoted. The
only genuine offset to fear is reliance upon Divine Pro-
tection, with Love influencing the life and affairs.
The author, early in her spiritual unfoldment, had op-
portunity to offset life insurance through coming to rely
upon the Principle of Divine Love. She was not advanced
sufficiently to protect herself from race-thoughts, so was
forced to meet the effect of the belief that "some calamity
is bound to happen" if one cancels insurance. A most
severe throat disorder arose, though the chief point of
agitation was from the plane of invisible forces that sought
to pold their own against a higher thought and protection.
Since the throat is the seat of Divine Power, and the cen-
ter for the Word's expression, it is not strange that this
center would be disturbed in the presence of the disturbed
Ribs: Accident and Protection 155
racial powers that relate to life insurance. Pioneering
in the Path of Truth's unfoldment, the author has met
and mastered many forces of the race mind, not hereto-
fore subjected to Truth, and which especially relate to
the physical plane of expression. The physical pertains
to the body, and it is the body that is now to be redeemed,
the without becoming as the within, when the new crea-
ture appears.
The author, early in her spiritual progression, had op-
portunity to offset accident and other inharmonies that
arose from the evil influences of the natural plane that
were quickened into action at the quickening of Truth in
the consciousness. Stepping off a high porch one night,
she declared instantly, "God's Divine Idea Man cannot
fall," and landed "like a feather," being very conscious of
feeling "light as down," when touching the ground. She
has walked in heavy rain and has been untouched by it;
through knowing that she was surrounded and protected
by the influences of Divine Love. This was attested to
by others who witnessed the phenomenal result of her
coming in from a rain with her clothes dry. These things
are phenomenal only because they conform to Divine
Laws that relate to the spiritual domain of consciousness;
which are little known and used. When man is identified
as spiritual being he will be constantly in the presence of
harmonies; but conscious conformity to Divine Laws must
be promoted to permit the identification of spiritual being.
The author has been protected against want by multi-
plication of money within her purse. She has made pur-
chases of needed things, in the consciousness of God's sus-
taining and supporting care, counting the change with
each purchase, only to find upon returning home that she
had as much money as when she started shopping, though
apparently very limited in funds. She has experienced
the Fourth Dimensional Law, witnessing the direct revela-
tion of things needed from the inner plane of ideas, in
conformity to Principles of Truth previously realized.
This is to say, that these experiences did not come because
she sought them, but because she had realized their un-
156 Spiritual Significance of the Body
derlying governing Principles, this permitting the perfect
expression of their outer forms or activities. The author
has had many evidences of the protecting power of the
Spirit. She has been set upon by thieves, met in Truth
one who sought to do her bodily injury and who collapsed
at her feet in remorse and repentance; and in many literal
and external ways has proved the protecting Power of
Divine Love, as well as its sustaining and supporting pres-
ence. She realizes that many of these outworking Prin-
ciples were for the purpose of verifying their inner un-
foldment, and a forerunner of a new world in which the
Principles of Truth will rule supreme, hence, has not tried
to prolong their activity by concentrated thought. She
realizes that the same action of God that gave evidence
of its Power and Presence is making Man in the image and
likeness of God, this being of greater importance than
the making of things for his or her enjoyment.
The "rib story" associated with the making of a woman
was greatly believed by people, materialized in thought
and feeling. The Light of Intelligence, projected into the
race the last century, has dissipated the clouds of ignor-
ance, giving rise to Truth that makes null and void the
lies of mortal sense. The making of woman from a rib
is a figure in words hiding a mystical truth. A rib is a
polarizing point for two halves or two parts, like the rib
of an umbrella, or the rib of a leaf. Where there is polar-
ization there is a new beginning. Woman, symbolized by
the Soul of self-consciousness as the first Eve, was pro-
moted by the first Adam, identifying when man became
separated from the Lord Principle within the conscious-
ness. Hence, it is written that Jehovah God took a rib
from the man and made a woman, though first causing
a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, the consciousness of the
self. This deep sleep is mortality with its forces of mate-
riality and darkness, and is progressed by the self-con-
sciousness, in sense of separation from its soul, the Eve
quality.
When the soul is made alive egos have gained the
Woman Principle in its natural aspect, though the attain-
Ribs: Accident and Protection 157
ment of the Principle of Divine Love is her absolute iden-
tification. Thus the first man Adam becomes a living
soul; that is, consciousness, conscious of itself, with suf-
ficient love of life to seek after the truths of Being, gains
itself. But, it must first die to itself to put on the reality
of the Woman Principle and enter into the union of the
living spirit and the living body, which the second Adam
and Eve represent, respectively. The love factor of con-
sciousness is the soul gained, though the love is first iden-
tified in the harlot, before it partakes of the character of
the Divine Mother Principle, or the Woman Function of
consciousness. Woman is not made in reality from the
rib until the end of Time, when the masculine and fem-
inine forces, progressed in mortality, are polarized and
her identity appears. She appears because of the One
gained, by mastering the twoness of consciousness. W om-
an is the Divine Love Principle, with which is Wisdom,
the male pole of Being, for the woman is not without the
man, in the Lord (Divine Laws).
Woman becomes the helpmeet of man, though man is
the race that is given rebirth through the action of God,
functioned by Woman at the end of Time. However, all
Principles that are to be are completed in the Divine Laws
before they are identified on the plane of consciousness;
hence, it is as though Woman was made from the Adamic
era. She is made like the radish that exists in the radish
seed before it is brought forth, this being a spiritual
making in conformity to Divine Laws. Woman, so iden-
tified, is our Mother, the New Jerusalem that cometh down
from heaven as a "bride adorned for her husband." She
is the Bride Principle of the Bridegroom, through which
the Laws of God (Lord) complete the formation of spir-
itual man; he having been begotten by the Father Prin-
ciple of God, as the Man, who functioned the first coming
of Christ.
Self-consciousness, climaxed in materiality or mor-
tality, is the harlot that must die with the death of the
self, before that I Am or Christ Spirit can be made alive.
. This Christ Spirit is the second Adam, by which man is
158 Spiritual Significance of the Body
made alive and identified in the qualities of Divine Love,
the Woman; who as Bride of Christ, polarizes the Bride-
groom, giving birth, in the Holy Marriage, to the children
of God. All this mysticism centers about making Woman
from the rib, this relating to the operation of the Divine
Laws, and not to the elements of mortality. The child of
God, spiritually born, is identified in the redeemed body,
this following the understanding of the natural body and
its relation to the inner spiritual qualities and laws. The
natural body includes all the forces of materiality, the
understanding of these forces opening to consciousness at
the opening of Truth.
The Ribs, twenty-four in number, are as mystical in
their significance as any part of the body. They are
premised to the fundamental Principles of Being, even
to relating to the making of Woman; yet, no one would
think that the physical rib, or one of them, could relate
to the making of Woman. All parts of the organism
exist in the spiritual plane as qualities of energies. The
understanding of the external body, in relation to these
qualities, is that which greatly offsets materiality of form
and function, and permits the spiritual Laws, standing
back of the qualities, to be set up; by which the real man
is fashioned. The real man is identified in the redeemed
body, one not subject to the forces of sin, sickness, and
death. This body is the result of Woman being formed
from the rib of polarizing forces, though her Function
in Christ must be made universally operative to bring
forth the children of God and the righteous world in
which they are to live. The redeemed body is the result
of polarity which gives way to oneness, revealing an or-
ganism freed from all limitation and bondage.
MEDITATION
I am surrounded and protected by Divine Love.
I am made upright in consciousness through uniting
understanding and will.
God's Divine Idea Man is not subject to accidents.
SPINAL COLUMN: RIGHTEOUSNESS:
LADDER OF LIFE
T
HE Spinal Column signifies the Ladder of Life.
The Ladder of Life is composed of steps which
must be taken by an ego, who attains to the con-
sciousness of Life and Being. These steps are portrayed
in Masonry by the thirty-three degrees, but Masonry pro-
motes the symbols, not the realities of the Ladder of Life.
The rituals of Masonry have no power to initiate one into
the consciousness of Life and Being. This initiation is
through the operation of Divine Laws, functioned in male-
female oneness to produce the real state of being.
The Spinal Column consists of thirty-three vertebrae
to which are correlated the nerves that make up the
nervous system. The nervous system consists of three
divisions, viz., the central or cerebrospinal, comprising
the brain and the spinal cord; the peripheral, comprising
the cranial and spinal nerves that connect the cercbro-
spinal system to the rest of the body; and the sympathetic,
which consists of many nerve plexuses and small ganglia
in various parts of the body, coordinated to the spinal
column through two gangliated cords; connecting the sym-
pathetic system with the other two factors of the nervous
system. Three indicates the trinity, comprising spirit,
soul, and body, by which consciousness of mind is gained.
Mind is present as Truth functioned, the result of com-
pleting the Ladder of Life.
Physiologically, the entire nervous system is dominated
by the brain and the spinal cord. The sensory and the
motory nerves convey the impulses of forces and promote
their motion or activity. The sensory nerves pertain to
the spirit, the motory nerves to the form or body. (See
Chapter, "Nerves: Sensitiveness and Immunity.") The
spinal column is that in the body which corresponds to
the connecting link of Intelligence between Heaven and
Earth, Spirit and Body. It represents, in its more uni-
[1591
160 Spiritual Significance of the Body
versal aspect, the connecting link between God and Man;
though this aspect of consciousness is not operative until
Truth is known, and the redemptive qualities of the body
are projected into the organism to be formed.
The Spinal Column is the supporting factor of the body,
representing the quality of uprightness and righteousness.
Uprightness is substantiality of character, that which is
free from trickery and deceit; that which is frank, honest,
and sincere. Righteousness is the right conformity of the
forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body to the inner govern-
ing Principles and Laws. These Principles and Laws can
be known only through obtaining uprightness of character,
the true and honest of the natural sense making way for
Truth, when the all-around unfoldment of the conscious-
ness permits.
The right use of the thoughts, feelings, aspirations, and
deeds will have a harmonizing effect upon the organ-
ism. It is not that the real body can be formed by the will
of man, but that the qualities of reality are promoted
by the consciousness, this supplying the substance-essence
with which the Divine Will works, when individuality is
attained. Individuality is identified as male-female state
of consciousness, gained through overcoming all sense of
duality with the inner Principles of Truth.
The mental and the spiritual unfoldment permit in-
fluences to be projected toward the natural body, which
refine and rejuvenate it, preparing it to receive the action
of Divine Will; by which the reality of being is formed.
The body that is now is not the body that is to be; but the
spiritual understanding of the body that is prepares the
way for the body that is to be. It is the translation of the
. formed natural forces to their spiritual equivalents, or
their reduction to nothingness, that permits the formation
of the realities of being. This substance-essence is the
mother-quality with which the Divine Laws (Father)
work to produce the offspring of Being, or the real man.
Righteousness is a quality of spirituality. It is the right
use of ideas, feelings, and words by which the right will
of living is identified. This is the willingness that permits
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life 161
the Divine Will to be done in Man, forming on the visible
plane of consciousness the substance-essence of the prin-
ciples of the invisible plane. The substance-essence is
centralized to the brain, it being the central function of
Intelligence. This substance-essence, gained from the
realizations of Truth, is projected toward the body (earth)
from heaven (redeemed brain), through the spoken
words of Truth, as well as by means of emanations car-
ried along by the nervous system.
A fallacious sense of spirituality, attended with quick-
ened emotions that give rise to psychic forces, unloads
on the nervous system of the religiously inclined, mak-
ing for erraticism and fanaticism. These forces do not
partake of the Spirit, but are stimulated in the powers
of sense by the false beliefs entertained of a higher nature
than before experienced; this giving rise to psychic ex-
periences in the unredeemed nature that are often labeled
spiritual. Religious mania results, often culminating in
insanity. It is fortunate that people, in the mortal nature,
cannot receive the things of the Spirit, for this prevents
the stimulation of their unredeemed and unregenerate
forces, which, aroused to action, would promote a greater
chaos. There is always some waste attending all pro-
gression, and many, able to reach up in contemplation
of tbe spiritual, without having overcome the forces of
the senses, are projected into chaos or fanaticism. This
has placed the spiritual in disrepute, but when the spir-
itual is understood it will be seen to be the actualization
in the well-balanced consciousness, of the Principles and
Laws of the Spirit.
The spiritual ideas and principles may be mentally per-
ceived, and when consciousness is not in control of the
natural forces developed in the senses, the unredeemed
forces arise in psychic momentum; students often labeling
these experiences spiritual. The spiritual forces quicken
the material forces, but they also provide the power to
control the material, when balanced intelligence and love
permit. When the stimulated material forces control the
ego, and one is involved in destructive forces on the phys-
162 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ical plane, it is the psychic, not the spiritual, that is con-
trolling the I. The only offset to this phenomenal condi-
tion is for the I to control the natural to the unfolding
spiritual, so as to be in control of both the good and evil
forces. The I must die to itself before the spiritual opens
in the consciousness. When this has not been undergone,
the I is quickened in its forces and the psychic dominates,
forcing the ego to partake of the destructive nature of
hellish energies.
The spiritually progressing, actuated by unfolding in-
telligence and love, having surrendered the self-powers
for the advancement of the Divine Powers, experience
peculiar changes within the organism; the nervous system
being the channel for the carrying of the energies of
Truth that impregnate the body with capacity of trans-
lation. The energies of Truth, as the forces of Divine
Love, the Mother-Quality of Being, give birth to spiritual
man or reality of being. The birth of spiritual man is in
the organism of the devotee, united in Wisdom and Love,
or male-female qualities of consciousness. This is not to
say that the new body is formed in the old one, but that
the old body or organism of consciousness is a receptacle
in which the Spirit works to form its substance-essence.
This substance-essence is translated into bodily form
through the universal action of Christ that opens at the
end of mortality. Man, conformed to the Divine Laws is
the reality of the spinal column, the connecting link be-
tween God and humanity.
Body is primarily the essences of form contained in the
seed, like a radish is within a radish seed before the seed
is sown. This body is the physical reality of the spiritual
qualities progressed, gained through the actualization
within the consciousness of the ideas and Principles of
Truth unfolded. Truth is the acme of united Wisdom
and Love, though also necessarily containing within Itself
the qualities of Understanding, Will, Life, and Substance.
Wisdom is the Light while Love is the energy of Light,
the two as One, fathering and mothering the form or
reality of being, gained through the substance-essence
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life 163
being fashioned in the action of Divine Laws (Lord).
The outworking of Truth is always in the organis~ of
being, though this is not as in the mortal body and nature,
but as in the consciousness reversed from the mortal to
the immortal or spiritual premise.
Righteousness is the result of doing the will of Truth;
that is, acting in keeping with Principles known. One
must become highly principled on the plane of the natural
man to be opened to the Principles of Truth. As right-
eousness is promoted, one takes his degrees in the Ladder
of Life, entering into the Life of Christ or Divine Spirit.
The Life of Christ is not present until one enters the Path
of Regeneration, through reversing the tendencies of gen-
eration as to thought and feeling. One must develop the
natural tendencies in honor and sincerity to attain "back-
bone" of character, this permitting a higher step of ad-
vancement. Consciousness is unfolding a Plan by which
man is fashioned and made, this Plan having already been
idealized in the Creative Mind, and revealed to man in
the knowing of Truth. The capacity to know the Truth
is primarily wrapped up in the capacity to know the un-
truth of mortal existence, and to master the forces of evil
and good.
Confidence in the supporting power of God has a ten-
dency to make one straight on all planes of expression,
and to become responsible for the unfoldment of the Plan
of God. Self-responsibility is present when one seeks to
understand the Divine Laws governing the unfoldment of
the Real Man, and to be conformed to them. Proper pos-
ture is greatly promoted by uprightness of mind and sin-
cerity of soul; though a certain mastery over the animal
nature is essential to permit the body to be conformed
to the spirit of the inner unfoldment.
The Ladder of Life is a name applied to the Path of
Regeneration, and is physically symbolized by the spinal
column. The brain that makes up the heavens of con-
sciousness is at the top of this Ladder. The sacral brain,
at the base of the spine, is the seat of the natural life or
sex force. Regeneration is the generating again of the
164 Spiritual Significance of the Body
qualities and forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body so
as to partake of the spiritual nature of being. Regenera-
tion results in controlled sexual love and the mind of the
flesh, precipitating the substance-essence of consciously
gained Wisdom and Love. It identifies a changed nature
of brain, by which the Mind of the Spirit is functioned.
The identification of the redeemed brain is attended with
the pain of overcoming the knowledges and loves de-
veloped on the sense plane, and may even result in an
enlarged skull to accommodate the changed brain. The
author has had the experience of having her skull bones
extended in marked ways to permit the new-born brain
to function the Mind of the Spirit; and experiences a
similar pain in trying to use the new-born brain to think
about material things, as she formerly did in trying to
think about spiritual matters.
The sexual forces are raised in energies by overcoming
the forces of mortal thought and feeling. This is the lift-
ing up of "the serpent in the wilderness," necessary to
conform the consciousness to the thought and feeling that
partake of the nature of Light and Truth. As Light is
ascended, darkness is quickened to be overcome, and
the serpent force is brought under subjection to the Laws
of Jehovah (Male-Female Authority) . This is the au-
thority of united Wisdom and Love that identifies be-
cause understanding and will are controlled to the I, and
all things are made to serve the unfoldment of the spir-
itual consciousness.
The raising-up of the sexual energies, through control-
ling thought and feeling of sex-sense to Understanding
and Will, causes the energies that usually segregate to
the sacral brain, to center to the top head, or heavens of
consciousness. The moving of this force from the gen-
erative center, in the loins, to the solar plexus, thence to
the spinal column, to be passed to the brain, can be defi-
nitely witnessed by one in the regeneration. The passing
of these forces through the plexus at the base of the brain,
near the medulla oblongata, is the crucifying (crossing or
friction) of the forces of generation, before they can be
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life 165
returned to Eden within the heavens of the brain area.
This point at the base of the brain in Golgotha, meaning
skull, being the center where Christ is also crucified, or
crossed into the energies of the organism.
Christ, the energies of united Wisdom and Love, dis-
seminated as Truth, is crossed into the organism of con-
sciousness; being crossed or crucified at the entrance of
the Divine Intelligence and Love into the organism or
body. These forces pass Golgotha, the point in the skull,
and become mixed with the forces of matter that have
been lifted up in the organism from the sacral brain cen-
ter. It is the mixture of forces, generated at the sacral
brain center, with the forces of Christ or Truth, that at-
tends the overcomer, these being the primal aspects of
heaven and hell that form the foundation of conscious-
ness. This mixture is consciousness of duality without
which one would not seek freedom in Oneness, or the One
(Christ-Truth). When freedom is gained in Truth, one
is free both in spirit and in body, for Truth involves the
actualization of the qualities regenerated; that is, their
living application to the consciousness, both within the
organism and in the life of the ego.
The Spinal Column is called "Jacob's ladder." A lad-
der is made of rounds upon which one climbs from low
points to high. The Kundulini force, mystically associated
with the spine, is the ascending energies of sex force that
have been brought under the control of the ego in Truth.
While at its beginning, it is the serpent force in attack
of the Woman or Principle of Divine Love, it would not
be quickened into action if the Principle of Divine Love
was not also quickened. The passing of this force through
Golgotha (place in skull) is for the purpose of giving the
energy of form to the substance-essence, gained through
realizations of Truth, that the spiritual state of being may
be formed. Spiritual qualities are without identity in
form until the energy gained in processes of regeneration
is subjected to Christ, or Truth, this permitting the for-
mation of Christ-Seed to form the reality of being; though
the elements of chaos are an adjunct to this formation.
166 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The mystical movement of the energies of sex, at the
time of the movement of the Christ Qualities, has given
rise to the sense belief that sexual experiences are essen-
tial toward the formation of the reality of being. This
belief is the black mysticism that is opposite to the white
mysticism that relates to the Laws of God fashioning man
in conformity to its Plan and Will. The use of the.sexual
forces to form the symbolical man, or mortal mankind,
was a necessity in the law of progression. The formation
of spiritual man, the reality of being, would necessarily
be in a manner opposite to that utilized in forming mate-
rial man, therefore, the sexual forces are brought to
negation in one who enters the Path of Regeneration; and
the mystical processes of the Law of the Cross are set up.
These mystical processes embrace the use of the redeemed
sexual energies, in conjunction with the Christ Qualities,
to give rebirth to the race, and to bring forth the children
of God.
It is the redeemed forces of consciousness that pass up
to the heavens in the Path of Regeneration. This is also
accompanied with the power of Truth to bring to cessa-
tion the generation of mortal or sexual forces. This whorl
of forces, centered to the individual, is the mingling of the
heavenly and the earthly forces, the spiritual and the
physical, by which the substance-essence is formed as
body. As the reborn forces pass to the matrix in the
brain, the seat of the I Am or Christ, the forces of the
Spirit of God or Christ are projected toward the matrix
of Love, identified as the Heart in the chest region, this
mating the male and the female energies to give birth to
the child of God. This is a matured state of conscious-
ness in reality of being or bodily identity; though the
revelation of spiritual man is one with the revelation of
the spiritual order of progression that succeeds the order
of materiality.
Redemption of the body is a physical actuality, pro-
moted by the Principles of Regeneration superseding the
forces of generation. When the individual function of
Redemption has been completed, the Divine Laws or Lord
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life 167
move to universalize the processes of Regeneration. This
necessitates the projection of the completed individual
forces, that is, completed in Christ or Truth, into the con-
sciousness of the race, enabling those spiritually progres-
sing to be spiritually born; and those on the natural plane
to take the next step of advancement. This universal
whorl of forces is also accompanied with the factors of
rejection and judgment; this passing over to a new order
those capable of further progression, and bringing to ces-
sation the forces that cannot advance.
The individual in whom the Principles of Regeneration
fulfil themselves becomes the Throne of Divine Power,
by which the redemptive process is projected. Thus it is
seen that the gaining of Christ is not for oneself, but for
the Lord, and in service to all people. God is One, and
includes all in its scope of action, but must first control
all individual forces to itself, by which it may control the
forces of all to itself. The individual thus centralized and
universalized constitutes the Cross, the perpendicular part
of the Cross representing the spinal column of the uni-
verse, with the horizontal bar the powers of giving and
receiving; or the Law of Attraction and Repulsion. There
is a sympathetic relation in the operation of the Divine
Laws that conforms all to a given purpose of God; all
things working for the fulfilment of God's purpose at the
ends of cycles.
The Spinal Column contains many plexuses that open
in the regeneration. These conform to the "stations" in
the Way of the Cross, and which are symbolized in cer-
tain church rituals. A symbol is always reflective and
never contains the Truth. The Light makes its shadow
in darkness, and the shadow, incorporated into the mind
and endowed with feeling energies in those not knowing
the Truth, appears to take on aliveness and form, but is
delusive and deceptive. Doctrines and religious beliefs
are built about symbols, and false religious systems are
promoted that obstruct consciousness from receiving the
Light of Truth. Such religious systems are on a par with
materialized governmental systems, and they go down
168 Spiritual Significance of the Body
together at the overthrowing of mortality and the estab-
lishment of immortality.
Life is so ordered that the proper fulfilment of the
natural progression opens one to the unfoldment of the
spiritual. Many of the aspects of the natural have been
promoted from the chaos, and are without reality of being.
The fulfilment of the natural is in the gaining of humanity
of character, by which the divinity of the Spirit may open
to reveal the real nature of Man. The spiritual is the ap-
plication of qualities of Intelligence and Love that are
known when consciousness has died to self-thought and
desires, and has been opened to know the Mind of the
Spirit and its Plan of unfoldment. Man knows the things
of the Spirit through the Spirit of God, or Christ, and not
through religious affiliations or beliefs. Attainment of
the Mind of the Spirit, by which the inspirations of the
Spirit are made known, is possible only through a proper
coordination of the body and its forces to the inner plane
of consciousness. All progression that does not include
the body is without substantiality, and does not promote
any permanent benefit for the race.
Diseases of the spinal column result from inharmonious
energies generated by mind, as well as pressures of forces
relating to the nervous system. The spinal column has
an influence upon the organs of the body, hence a well
adjusted spinal column promotes the health of the natural
body. Osteopathy and other forms of spinal adjustments,
take their places among the more progressing healing
agencies that the higher mental advancement has called
into physical expression. Those progressing along higher
lines should be thankful for these external aids by which
the unfolding material forces may be held in check, and
the body thus be made to serve the unfoldment of the
spiritual. Having advanced beyond the influences of
drugs, the egos need not be entangled again in their cur-
rent, unless necessity demands ; but can rely upon healing
agents that correspond to the mental advancement. This
in no way affects the spiritual unfoldment, but is a ren-
dering unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's; control-
Spinal Column: Righteousness: Ladder of Life 169
ling the unredeemed and unredeemable elements of the
organism to the unfolding spiritual.
The mind of the flesh is enmity toward God the Spirit,
and flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of heaven,
meaning that the forces and elements of the mortal are
promoted outside the jurisdiction of the Divine Laws
and are not subject to them; though they are subject to
what the Divine Laws have promoted on the plane of the
physical. The forces of darkness cannot be healed, but
they can be controlled and reduced to nothingness, in the
presence of Higher Powers. Many elements and forces
of the natural organism are fashioned from the mind of
the flesh, therefore are not subject to the Laws of spiritual
healing. It will be found that the organs to which these
elements and forces relate belong to the animal nature of
man, and will either be completely offset in the spiritual
man, or will be changed so as to be subject to the Laws of
God. Many conditions arising in the consciousness from
wrong combinations of forces of spirit, soul, mind, and
body can be offset or healed through the operation of
spiritual laws; but the elements of materiality are not sub-
ject to the Law of God, for the mind of the flesh, which
is enmity to God, has formed them.
Conditions arising from the material plane must be met
in the authority of the I, and many means have been pro-
vided for the promotion of harmony on the natural plane,
in the law of necessity. If spiritual healing were inclusive
of all factors of consciousness, it would encompass the
organism, revealing a healthful mortal creature who
would be eternalized in the sinful elements. Hence, the
Kingdom of God would be left unrevealed. "That which
is born of the flesh is flesh; that which is born of the Spirit
is spirit."
MEDITATION
The free-flowing Christ Life regenerates the conscious-
ness, establishing harmony and peace.
I am upright in consciousness and established in right-
eousness.
I rejoice in whokness of being.
LUNGS: BREATHING AND INSPIRATION
T HE Lungs, two in number, are the positive and
the negative poles of the Principle of Breath. The
Principle of Breath is one of Life and inspiration.
"And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground,
and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man
became a living soul." The right is always positive, or
male, and the left is negative, or female. The organism
is positioned in complementary relation of these two
poles, but they are not in polarity. If polarity were pres-
ent a state of wholeness would be manifested, this reveal-
ing a spiritual state of being. Because creatures are made
up of male and female forces, mortals imply this is God's
plan for Man; whereas Man is not brought forth until spir-
itual conception supersedes the conception of the mind of
the flesh.
Man is made from the "dust of the ground," but this is
substance-essence. Substance-essence is formed through
superseding the forces of duality or twoness with the
Light of Truth. It is the result of realizations of Truth
gained in tilling the soil (ground) of one's own conscious-
ness. It is substance-essence that receives the breath or
inspiration of the Spirit of God, by which man becomes
a living soul. This is to say, the aspiration to become
spiritual enables the ego to complete the natural, and to
identify as living soul or consciousness; by which the
Spirit inbreathes or inspires with the capacity of reality
of being and eternal life.
Physically, the lungs are the pump of the mechanism
of life, though in its heavenly aspect, for the heart is the
earthly pump of the mechanism that is coordinated with.
the lungs. The lungs are the seat of the Life of the Spirit,
though when this Life is identified it is in the heart of man.
The heart of man is not the physical organ: the physical
heart is objective to the heart of consciousness that func-
tions the Life of the Spirit. The first breath at birth is the
[1'70]
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration 171
penetration of the organism of consciousness with the
physical life of the Spirit. The interior aspect of this
breath is set up at the quickening of the foetus within the
wombs of women, but all heavenly or interior activities
must be counterparted with their earthly correspondences
to bring into manifestation the inner qualities.
Spiritually, the breath is called the Holy Breath. This
is the influx of the Holy Spirit that comes when the in-
spiration of the Spirit is experienced. This Holy Spirit
or Breath is not experienced by the unregenerate mortal,
but only by one who has mastered the forces of the mate-
rial, superseding them with the activities of the spiritual.
"There is a spirit in man and the inspiration of the Al-
mighty giveth them understanding." The "them" per-
tains to the united male and female poles of conscious-
ness, without which there is no inbreathing of the Holy
Spirit, or revelation of the Real Man, with conscious
knowing of Principles of Life and Being.
Inspiration has its symbolical expression on the plane
of the mortal, but often consists of consciousness spouting
off what comes into mind, without thought or coordina-
tion. If consciousness is raised to a higher mental plane,
the inspiration will partake of the nature of that plane, for
it keeps pace with the developed intelligence. It is only
when one is spiritually unfolded that inspiration can have
its harmonious activity, identifying the ego in fuller ex-
pression of life and being. Spiritual unfoldment must be
climaxed in union of the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and
body (will), with all adverse forces offset, before the Holy
Spirit can directly express in the consciousness. The
expression of the Holy Spirit is for the purpose of carry-
ing out to the universal mind and body the emanated
energies of Divine Wisdom and Love; by which both the
heavenly and the earthly planes of advancement are pro-
moted. This is to say, the spiritually and the racially ad-
vancing are promoted from one action of God.
Inspiration, when opened in consciousness, will affect
the breath as well as the heart. It will flow like a sweet
ecstasy in the chest region, embracing the lungs, heart,
172 Spiritual Significance of the Body
and thymus gland. The ecstasy is not from the desire
body, which is the symbolical aspect of the Body of Divine
Will, for it can open only in a consciousness subjected to
the Love of the Lord, through overcoming the love of the
flesh. The desire body, in the common expression of the
term, associates with occultism which is reversed mys-
ticism, and is the psychic impress of the aspirational na-
ture. It is through the mingling of forces of mortal
thought and feeling of egos, who come to conclusions
about the Spirit that are not real or Truth, that the activi-
ties of the psychic or desire body are promoted. This is
a step of mortal advancement that cannot be prevented,
but it is not the realm of the real Mediator betwee.
n man
and God, nor does it pertain to the Principles of Being.
The fallacies are always of as high a state of progression
as are the qualities of Truth, and only through dying to
the mortal thought and love can they be understood.
The Lungs represent the heavenly quality of forces, the
heart the earthly. The coordination of the forces of both
identify the life of the organism. The life-giving essence
of oxygen, contributed by the lungs to the heart and
blood, signifies the Life quality of the Spirit that is in-
spired or breathed into the consciousness that has been
purified from the fleshly nature and forces. The return
of the waste as venous blood, with its subsequent purifica-
tion by means of the function of the lungs, signifies the
power of the Spirit to cleanse and purify the conscious-
ness of the ego at the end of his mortal course, after his
long sojourn in impurity and adulteration. The organism
is the workshop in which the Plan of the Creator works
out, though the material body only symbolizes the under-
lying principles that are set into action, when one is at-
tuned to Wisdom and Love, and spiritual birth is identi-
fied.
All are prodigals, wanderers in the mire of materiality,
but when tired of eating the husks of life, egos may re-
turn to the Father's house ; that is, be brought under the
authority of the Divine Laws for spiritual birth and
redemption. Spiritual birth reveals the redeemed body,
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration 173
the organism that is conformed to the Principles of Be-
ing. This body is white like a corpse, except it has the
delicate complexion of a babe that is acclimated to the
earth plane. This is the picture of the revelation of the
feminine organism, when brought forth in the flesh of the
Word, and the masculine will be revealed in strength and
power that partake of the nature of the Creative design.
Breathing is the process by which air is drawn into the
lungs for oxygenating and purifying the blood, and its
subsequent exhalation. Breathing proceeds by means of
inspiration and expiration. Inspiration signifies the in-
flux of spiritual energies into consciousness, and expira-
tion signifies their projection to the physical domain.
This is to say, if consciousness were properly identified,
it would have direct access to the Edenic center, drawing
from the Source of Being, and projecting these qualities
to the physical domain or body of the egos, as well as
toward the members of the race. This is proven in the
operation of the Holy Spirit, centered to the Holy Ghost,
at the end of mortality (now ending), this process draw-
ing into the consciousness of the Messianic Center the
Qualities of Being, and projecting them to all who can
receive them; to whom is given the power to be revealed
as the first-fruits of the Creative Plan.
The Messianic Plan involves the Holy Breath, the In-
spiration and Expiration of the Holy Spirit united with
the Holy Ghost, that is, united Spirit and Body of Being,
it being universal in its replenishing and regenerating
effects. (This subject is treated in the Book, "Science of
Love With Key to Immortality," by the author) . Inspira-
tion signifies the processes of involution and expiration
the processes of evolution. Involution is the spiritualizing
of forces, evolution is the materializing of forces. The
spiritualizing of forces develops the spirit, the material-
izing of forces develops the energies of forms. Both are
controlled by Christ, the Truth, at mortality's close, to
form the substance-essence as realities of being. Reality
of being, individually identified, is man made in the image
and likeness of God (Being) .
174 Spfritual Significance of the Body
The balanced inspiration and expiration of the lungs
is rhythmical, this signifying the soul force by which is
harmony. This rhythm extends to the heart heat, the
health of both the lungs and heart depending upon the
proper rhythm. Emotions, whether partaking of love or
of hate, the primal pair of emotions, will stimulate or
retard the rhythm of both the lungs and the heart. Fear,
a decided feeling of negation in the presence of the
unknown, will devitalize the harmony of these organs for
the time being, as well as other emotions leaving their
effects upon the vital organs.
Emotions give rise to energies of like character, these
acting harmoniously or inharmoniously upon the organ-
ism, according to their natures. Love, so-called, has a
stimulating effect upon the organism, though when bal-
ance between men and women is lacking, one is dominated
and devitalized. Hate, when projected in opposition to
Principles of Truth, is an agent of construction to all
planes of spiritualized consciousness. It is thus seen that
the so-called law of emotions and their effects, are with-
out permanent foundation, each ego being affected ac-
cording to the status of development.
Osmosis, the process of liquids of lighter and of denser
volumes exchanging their elements through porous vessels
or membranes, is an important factor in respiration and
blood purification. It signifies the principle of absorption
that is present on the spiritual plane, by which the higher
advanced qualities absorb to themselves the lesser
advanced; this even extending to the outer plane of living
at the time in the cycle when progression is proved up,
and the fruit is declared. That is, it is possible for the
more spiritually advanced, capable of fulfilling the Laws
of God, to carry forward the qualities of Spirit in those
who will not bring forth the spiritual fruit. This process
is called Transmigration and Passover, and is the uni-
versal correspondent of the principle of osmosis operative
in the organism of an ego.
The vital organs hide the Principles of the Creative
process of making a man, therefore their distinct func-
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration 175
tions in relation to the coordination of the forces of the
organism. Underlying the spiritual domain, which the
brain, heart, and lungs symbolize, is the Creative Plan,
signified in the organism of man by the glandular system;
which is now being uncovered in keeping with the uncov-
ering of the Creative Plan in fashioning man in the image
and likeness of Being, and in establishing the race in
potential fraternity, leading to immortality. The brain
as the Head, and the Heart as the seat of conscious con-
sciousness, coordinated as one, bring the entire organism
under the governing Laws of God. The Head as Wisdom,
and the Heart as Love, are the parents of consciousness,
with the lungs representing the Spirit of Life to be
unfolded.
Breathing is a subconscious experience, like the process
of living, though both Life and Breath are consciously
gained in an ego made alive in the Laws of Being. Th~
practice of deep breathing is beneficial to the outer organ-
ism. Deep breathing is more naturally premised to the
male, and the lighter breathing to the female of mortal
creatures. That is, the center of breathing of the male
premised to the material world, especially, is at the lower
part of the lungs, while the female is premised to the
top part of the lungs that symbolizes the inner plane. This
subconscious positioning is in keeping with the laws of
progression that delegate to males the promotion of the
material world, and to females the promotion of the
spiritual world; though females are not yet fully
awakened to their responsibility, though their time has
only now come to support the bringing forth of the spir-
itual world.
When females are awakened and reborn, this taking
place through the deific function of Woman, as Christ
Principle, in the second coming of Christ (now working
out), the body will come into its divinely appointed place,
and Woman will be seen to be holy in her appointment
in the Creation, and in her function. This position is
exactly opposite to that occupied by women during mor-
tality, in which they have been made a stronghold of
176 Spiritual Significance of the Body
iniquity and sensuality, promoted by the males in the
mind of the flesh, and projected toward women in copu-
lative expression. The awakening of women through the
Woman Principle is incidental to the overthrow of mor-
tality and the establishment of immortality.
The occult tendency to encourage the practice of deep
breathing for "spiritual purposes" is an attempt to spir-
itualize the consciousness through outer means, without
understanding the necessity of overcoming the material
forces so as to unite the soul of consciousness with the
spirit, and to bring it under the authority of the Divine
Will. Occultism is an outer reflection of mysticism and is
without the power to impart Truth. It attempts to dupli-
cate the spiritual processes and movements of Divine
Laws, bringing the ego under the control of seven devils,
instead of cleansing the consciousness of all forces adverse
to the inner Principles. Since breathing connects with the
soul forces, deep breathing can quicken the unmastered
and unconquered psychic entities, promoted by repeated
births and deaths, and subject the ego to many destruc--
tive energies.
When the ego has overcome the forces that are adverse
to Truth, and has died to the self-desires, he or she will
not need to practice deep breathing, to permit the inspira-
tion of the Almighty to breathe into man's nostrils (inspir-
ing faculties) the breath of Life to make the living soul.
This quickening is from the Laws of the Spirit, and con-
sciousness must be subjected to these Laws, by first sub-
jecting all the forces of the mortal nature to the I, before
it can receive the inspiration of the Holy Breath that
regenerates and redeems. The Holy Breath as Holy Spirit
forms the Holy Ghost, the spiritual form of the substance-
essence, in the Will of God. This is the Lord's body of the
first coming of Christ, but this body is substantialized in
the second coming of Christ, due to the energies of mor-
tality as sex-love being subjected so as to permit the influx
of Divine Love, the Mother Principle of God, that forms
the real body of man. The real body is revealed as the
Body of Light, in its Creative nature, and the body of
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration 177
white, in its humanized form of expression.
It is never commendable to stir up psychic forces except
as darkness arises because of the Light. Light, as spiritual
knowledge, enables the ego to take mastery over the quick-
ened darkness, and to win a spiritual victory. Death, the
totality of psychic and astral forces, is finally conquered
by the Spirit of Life; but these forces of hell are gradually
quickened by the promotion of Light, until, when Truth is
enthroned, victory over hell and death is effected, in
Divine Will and Law. "Fools rush in where angels fear
to tread," but they reap the fruit of their ignorance in
added fleshly tribulations.
Consumption, the dreaded enemy of the lungs, called
the "white plague" is a consuming of tissues, due to the
overthrow of the natural law of harmony and balance.
It may arise from the acidity of the system, from so-called
infection which is a center of death that has become
unbalanced as to its counterpartal birth, and other abuses
that devitalize and disorganize the natural harmony.
Pneumonia, a fever that infests the mucus filled lungs,
is a burning of the refuse which becomes excessive.
"Colds" are nature's effort to throw off accumulated
refuse and waste, not otherwise eliminated from the body,
and the lungs and bronchial tubes become easy preys of
these conditions. Inharmonies characterize the mortal
organism because it is not polarized in the male and
female elements, the mortal being itself the product of the
separation of consciousness from the Principles and Laws
of Being (God).
The mortal can never be free from inharmonies, though
the superseding of the mortal elements with the immortal,
or spiritual qualities, has a transforming effect upon the
body, making it a purer receptacle for the unfoldment of
the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and will. Harmony is
promised to the spiritual state of being, the new creature,
who puts off the "old man and his deeds," and puts on
the righteousness and life and love of the Spirit. When
consciousness is returned to its Edenic connection,
through becoming united male-female, and this is sup-
178 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ported by the outer elements that have been born from
within through spiritual birth, sin, sickness, sorrow, and
even death, shall pass away. It is the immortal, finally
identified in eternal life and being, that is freed from
inharmonies, though the immortal is gained through
dying to the forces that make man mortal.
The Lungs and the bronchial tubes signify the Tree
of Life in its physical identification. This is not to say
that the lungs and the bronchial tubes are the Tree of Life,
for the physical only symbolizes or shadows the qualities
of the spiritual domain that are within the Kingdom of
Heaven within Man. Egos must become Man, being
opened in the Qualities of the Kingdom of Heaven within
the spiritual domain of consciousness. The gaining of the
natural qualities, that precede the spiritual, is the pri-
mary step that opens one to spiritual unfoldment. When
a certain point of advancement is reached, the Kingdom
of Heaven is opened, by which one is not only taught of
the Spirit, but becomes at-one with the Qualities eman-
ated. Knowing and being are one in spiritual law. The
Tree of Life is consciousness itself, male-female in being,
coordinated to the Love of God through uniting the forces
of spirit, soul, mind, and body. This Tree will bring forth
fruit to the glory of God and the honor of humanity, when
identified at the end of Time.
Mucus, an infestation of nature, comparable to the
excessive pests that infest a growing garden, can be greatly
relieved by proper diet. A mucusless diet is now possible,
though each struggles with food and its adaptation to the
body according to the plane of mental unfoldment. Eating
is as individual as thinking, but scientific eating is not
the clue to scientific being, though it is one of the aids
of purification by which the passion of sense-appetite is
mastered. Fasting will often permit latent diseases to
spring into activity because the inherent forces of the
body are uncovered. One can temporarily relieve certain
forms of sickness by proper eating, but this is not a genu-
ine cure, for only a clean organism can be naturally
healthy. Cleanliness does not relate alone to food, but to
Lungs: Breathing and Inspiration 179
the condition of the organism. The organs will continue
to produce excess which becomes waste because not
·properly polarized in the male and female qualities of
the cells that form them; therefore the mortal man can-
not be in a state of harmony. The polarization of the
male and the female qualities of consciousness ushers egos
into immortality which is the beginning of the unfold-
ment of the Principles of eternal life and being.
One may aspire toward good health, and this aspiration
is commendable toward inviting the harmony man is
expected to attain; but all the forces progressed in mor-
tality must be mastered and intelligently controlled,
before harmony can be revealed as a principle to govern
man. The revelation of harmony comes as a new state
of being and not as a properly coordinated mortal crea-
ture. The attempt to coordinate the forces of the mortal
creature, so as to gain harmony, is symbolical of the desire
for coordination to prevail in the organism of Man, this
desire having to be set up to produce its fulfilment.
The attempt to attain to the spiritual fulfilment for
man, by turning away from the material forces of the
organism, is commendable only for what it signifies. The
attainment of the spiritual is through the fulfilment of the
natural. The fulfilment of the natural is self-conscious-
ness controlled to the I. The attainment of the spiritual
is the united spirit and body in newness of life and being,
by which the Divine Laws can operate to bring forth the
reality of being. This is not a bodiless ego but one
identified in righteous embodiment. The Plan of Life is
so ordered that the unfoldment and mastery of the natural
forces automatically open one to the corresponding spir-
itual. When the spiritual qualities unfold they will call
into activity the hidden forces of the natural, not yet
mastered and overcome, this enabling the ego to complete
the duality of the natural, and the spiritual, and to be
identified in characteristics of Oneness, the nature of
Being. This state of consciousness is the means by which
the Inspiration of God can be projected to the race, so
as to identify it as living soul.
180 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The racial fulfilment of mortality .is "living soul" by
which the principles of immortality can be impressed to
be known. The end of mortality as "living soul" gained
is the beginning of immortality, though its governing
principles issue from Christ, whose function identifies the
race in immortality. The lungs and heart of Christ Func-
tion identify as the Twain, by which the Qualities of
Christ, the One, are projected to establish the race in
potential immortality; and to bring forth the fruit of spir-
itual advancement as the virginal group, or heirs of God.
joint-heirs with Christ.
MEDITATION
I am established in the inspirations of the Real Man,
and open to the influx of Qualities of Life and Being.
Perfect coordination of the organs of the body reveals
harmony and strength.
I am governed by the Divine Laws and partake of the
Holy Breatl_:i.
HEART: BLOOD AND LOVE
THE Heart, a flattened pear-shaped organ, is the
seat of the natural life, as to its physical identity.
The natural life, as to its spiritual identity, is from
the Spirit, as is evidenced by the stopping of the heart
and the cessation of the functions of the body, when the
Spirit is withdrawn. "The body without the spirit is
dead." Life is not in the body, but it has its expression
by means of the coordination of the forces and functions
of the body, signifying the mechanism of the Word (God)
and its active powers of expression.
The Heart, through the blood, relates to every organ
of the body. It is the mothering function of the vital
organs, the lungs being the fathering. It is made up of
four chambers, two auricles and two ventricles, these
being positive-negative (male-female) to each other. The
heart objectifies the four-square consciousness, the fourth
dimensional, its four chambers typifying the coordinated
spirit, soul, mind, and body.
The circulation, of which the heart is the Great Head,
is composed of venous and arterial blood. The venous is
the impure, the arterial is the pure, typifying the impurity
and purity of consciousness incidental to progression. The
pure signifies the light, the impure the darkness, both
factors being necessary to promote the qualities of the
spiritual and the natural man. It is the mixture of the
pure and the impure forces of consciousness that iden-
tifies animality, or a state of adulteration in which egos
are subject to harmonies and inharmonies of a temporary
nature.
Mammals are characterized by a double circulatory
system, called pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary
relates to the right side of the heart and the exchanges
of the heart and the lungs by which the arterial or pure
blood is ready for projection into the organism; while
the systemic pertains to the left side of the heart in rela-
[181]
182 Spiritual Significance of the Body
tion to the ingathering of the impure blood. It requires
twenty-three seconds for the blood to complete its circula-
tion in the system of man, going out.as pure blood and
returning as impure. The portal circulation, relating to
the intestines and the liver, is subsidiary to the pulmonary
and the systemic, and regulates the influx of energies of
food into the blood stream.
The lungs signify the activities of the spiritual domain,
but the heart signifies the activities of the physical do-
main. The physical is not the material but the form of
the spiritual. The heart is the seat of Love, signifying
the center of the Mothering Principle of Being, by which
man is fashioned and made. The circulation, operative
by means of the heart and lungs, typifies the projection of
the pure qualities of the Spirit to the bodily consciousness,
the realm of form, where they are absorbed and used,
becoming polluted and impure. The Law of circulation
provides for a return of these impurities to the Source of
Love, where they are translated, changed and re-formed,
partaking again of the qualities of purity. The heart
symbolizes Christ, the seat of Divine Love, the agent of
Divine circulation of the Qualities of Being, as well as
the receiving station for the impurities of the race that
they may be changed or annihilated.
The Divine Circulation is at-one with the Holy Breath,
the result of the function of the Holy Spirit and the Holy
Ghost, or united spirit and body, Christ and man; and is
comparable to the circulation of the lungs and heart in
cooperative function to the whole body, or organism of
consciousness. The Divine Circulation is the giving of
the Love of God toward the race, that it may be reborn at
the second coming of Christ, and immortality be estab-
lished. This universal change is preceded by an indi-
vidual change, by which all the members of the body are
seen in the Light of Truth. "If thine eye be single, thy
whole body shall be full of light." The spiritual insight
into the relation of the members of the body to the gov-
erning Principles of Truth is that by which the forces of
the body are subjected to the authority of Divine Will,
Heart: Blood and Love 183
and the Laws of Transmutation are set into action.
The Heart, as a vital organ, is subject to change through
the changing qualities of consciousness. The mastering
of the mortal forces and elements, and their being super-
seded by the immortal that issues from the spiritual, has
an effect upon the vital organ of the heart, even to affect-
ing the circulation and the quality of the blood. The
symbol of the changing body is found in the changing
corpuscles, characterizing the race in these latter days.
This change is in the superseding of the red corpuscles by
the white. While this condition is called "anemia" on the
natural plane, when excessively and reflectively experi-
enced, it follows that "anemia" could not exist except in
symbolization of inner spiritual laws working in the
organism; though those suffering the reflective processes
are not in the spiritual realities working out in the organ-
ism.
The inner spiritual laws pertain to the translation of
the organism from impurity to purity of forces, this per-
mitting, when spiritual birth is perfected, the revelation
of the body of white in which there is no red blood. Red
blood characterizes animality of nature, and the tem-
porary state of man. The circulating medium of the
redeemed body will be the emanating energies of Being
that issue from the Tree of Life, ripening its fruit once
each month in spiritualized consciousness or man; pro-
moting continuity of being and the harmonious expres-
sion of the organism, without the necessity of birth and
death. It follows that such an organism is the flesh of the
Word, the spiritual state of being that is brought forth
through the operation of the Divine Will and Laws. Egos
thus perfected are the heirs of God, and joint-heirs of
Christ, partaking of the realities of Being, as they have
been idealized to be brought forth since before Time.
These mark the graduated states of consciousness, who
put on the capacity of eternal life.
The organs of the body symbolize organs of conscious-
ness that are present as essences and energies, like fruit
is present in the seed that will produce it. These essences
18-1 Spiritual Significance of the Body
an<l energies must be made alive in spiritual laws, by
mastering the forces of the natural body, which mastery
includes the understanding of the natural and the spir-
itual. The translation of the body is not without the
gaining of the Spirit of consciousness, therefore it follows
that one must first be renewed in mind and transformed
(changed) in form on the natural plane, before the cor-
responding Divine Laws and functions can open to per-
fect the righteous state of being. The change of form must
include the outer plane of living, as to words and deeds,
thus preparing the new environment to be inhabited by
the spiritual state of being.
The many changes taking place the last century on the
plane of form, as respecting the organism of the ego, as
well as that of the race, are induced by the operation of
the Divine Laws to reveal the spiritual state of man and
the universe; as well as a righteous expression of the race
as a new social order. The new social order necessarily
includes a new governmental order, with finances, the
function of government, conformed to principles of order,
justice, and honor. The individual progression is always
counterparted by a universal progression, the inner and
the outer planes of consciousness moving forward as one,
these representing the heavens and the earth that are
made in the Laws of Being (God).
The spiritual state of being is mothered by Divine Love,
the identification of the Function of God in Feminine
Quality at the end of mortality (now ending). Divine
Wisdom, the Masculine Quality, is united with Divine
Love, the two constituting the One of Creation, by which
all partaking of the spirit of oneness may be identified for
spiritual birth; as well as all partaking of humanity may
be carried forward to form the basis of the new body of
the race. Divine Love is signified in the organism of man
by the Heart, but this is the spirit of man rather than the
heart as an organ. The Heart as the spirit is made up
of qualities of consciousness realized, relating to Truth.
Prior to the unfoldment of Truth, the heart of conscious-
ness is identified as the animal soul, made up of emotions
Heart: Blood and Love 185
and affections in keeping with the developed senses.
When the feeling nature is controlled to the Principle
of Divine Love, the Heart or Spirit of man is identified,
this being known as the Son of Man. Divine Wisdom,
which is one with Divine Love, is signified by the
redeemed brain, the organism of consciousness by which
the Christ Mind is functioned, and the knowing of Truth
is revealed by the being of its Principles.
The other five Qualities of Being, viz., Understanding,
Will, Substance, Life, and Truth, attuned to Wisdom and
Love, have their significance in the body, though the
Truth gained is universal in its service, hence, embraces
the individual and the universal body (race). Wisdom,
the functioned Divine Intelligence, is centered to the cere-
brum of the brain while Understanding, its physical coun-
terpart, is centered to the cerebellum, the two as one
making up the redeemed brain, as well as indicating the
union of the spirit and the body. Will, the physical co-
ordinate of Understanding, is centered to the Medulla
Oblongata, the top head of the spinal column, it being
the seat of motion from heaven or mind, or heaven rela-
tively expressed. It is because of the necessity of the
Will of man being changed from the mortal to the
immortal premise, that egos advancing in understanding
of the spiritual laws suffer the regenerative pains at the
base of the brain. These may extend to other parts of
the brain, for a coordinate change is taking place that
affects all the pivotal centers of the organism.
Substance, the . spiritual essence from which all is
formed that has reality and being, centers to the lungs,
though they are properly the inspiring and expiring qual-
ities of progressing consciousness; that is, those coming in
from the Spirit and moving out to consciousness. The
result of inspiration and the formation of the essence is
Substance. The lungs, as organs, symbolize the processes
of impression and expression, and are affected somewhat
by the change from the mortal to the immortal plane.
This change may be noticed by odors, breaths, quickening
in the nostrils, and other forces that suggest spiritual
186 Spiritual Significance of the Body
qualities and energies. Life, the actual identification of
spiritual qualities, realized in thought and action, has its
symbolical center at the generative organs, which are in
close coordination with the vital organs, the heart and
lungs.
It is not that the sexual organs of the mortal are the
center of Life, for in the reversed aspect of mortality, they
are the seat of death. They are the means by which tempo-
rary existence is promoted, which is a form of life, but
which is death when contrasted with the Principle of Life
and Being. Temporary existence is the means by which
consciousness comes to know itself as it is known in God,
and to be spiritually born. One must put away the ten-
dencies of sexual love, by which one is materially born,
in order to be spiritually born and to be mothered in the
Principle of Divine Love. Repulsion to mortal existence
is always attended with some degree of spiritual under-
standing, by which the Laws of the Spirit can prepare
consciousness for spiritual birth and redemption.
Redemption includes the body as well as the spirit of man,
and is effected through changing the thoughts, words,
feelings, and actions of the mortal nature; though this
only places one in a position to receive the inspirations of
the Almighty, by which one is spiritually progressed and
brought to the capacity of being spiritually born.
The reality of Life is in the generation of the Life of the
spiritual qualities realized, this, however, being felt in
its influx at the generative organs. This inflµx is present
because of conscious spiritual understanding, and is not
in any sense a stimulation that suggests sexual copulation.
Copulative desire and its fulfilment is the breaking up of
the life energies on the part of sexual creatures, signifying
their own dissolution in matter or materiality. However,
since the natural hides the spiritual, and also comple-
ments it, it must be first progressed, diversification of the
forces that are generated being necessary to form the
· material world and man; without which the spiritual
would not be, though the spiritual is identified through
repulsing the activities of the material. The only realities
Heart: Blood and Love 187
gained from progression in the material world are the
qualities of Understanding and Will, though these united
as one will open consciousness to Wisdom and Love, by
which the other Qualities of Being are progressed.
Truth, the totality of the six Qualities of Being, has no
signification in the body of man except as an action of
God by which the entire consciousness is controlled,
individually and universally. It is identified as the Tree
of Life, which man, coordinated in the Qualities of Being,
is. Truth is Being; I Am. Truth controls all in the spir-
itual and the natural worlds, but is not included in any of
their forces or expressions. The spiritual is a means by
which capacity of Truth is identified, but when Truth is
identified it supersedes the spiritual. The natural is the
means by which the spiritual is identified, but the natural
must be transcended to attain to the spiritual. Truth has
its identification by means of the spiritual, and the spir-
itual is identified by mastering the natural. Thus all that
is on the natural plane is controlled by Truth, when Truth
moves to renew the race and to bring forth the first-fruits
of Being.
Love is the energy of Truth. It has its expression in
the organism of consciousness as feeling. Feeling, when
controlled by Divine Intelligence, is the Will of Being.
Will, therefore is the outer aspect of Love, the means by
which it is applied. Love is not a sentiment nor an emo-
tion, though all forms of sensual feeling have been asso-
ciated with Love by the mortal mind. Mortals have
classed all the attractive emotions and feelings as Love,
and the unattractive, the repulsive, as hate. Love and
hate, as they exist on the plane of mortality, are two poles
of dualistic forces, equal and reactive to each other, there-
fore Love, as Principle, which is its reality, has not been
expressed on the plane of mortality.
Love centers to the chest region, to the thymus gland,
in its heavenly energy, though the heart region, so closely
associated with the soul, may react to its functioning.
Love that relates to the physical domain is the energy of
consciousness, attuned to Truth, therefore is possible of
188 Spiritual Significance of the Body
expression only in the spiritual state of being. Love will
generate Life, and the Will of being will conform to right-
eousness and order, in the new creature. The lowering of
the energies of Love to the generative organs symbolizes
the lowering of the Divine Love to the plane of the race,
by which Man might eventually be brought forth in the
operation of spiritual laws.
The sexual love results in bringing forth a kind of a
man, not the reality of being. Love, when properly prem-
ised will give continuity of being to those identified in
its energies, but it will not be propagative in function.
The propagative function is distinct from the love func-
tion, and will be so positioned among immortals. The
parental function will be attended with love, but the love
function will not be attended with parental desire. Abso-
lute Love is operative in consciousness premised to eternal
life and being, and opens when one attains to the con-
sciousness of Christ. This is the Love of God, given for
the life of man, that whosoever attains to union wit!i it
might not perish, but enter into eternality of life and
being.
Emotions and feelings purify o'r contaminate the blood
stream, their energies mingling with the elements of the
physical organism for good or ill. Jealousy, the aspect
of feeling that is repulsive to Love, directly affects the
liver, giving off its destructive forces in the direction of
the blood. Bitterness, envy, malice, worry, anxiety, and
other forms of repulsive feelings directly affect the organ-
ism, contaminating the blood with their devitalizing
influences, and producing disorders in the organs relating.
All emotions give rise to a precipitate, related in color
and tone, these being harmonious or inharmonious in
their bodily effects. It is the feeling-energy of thought that
promotes harmony or inharmony, and not the thought
itself, for thought without feeling-energy is dead. There-
fore, it is necessary for man to change the heart (feeling)
in order to enter into a higher expression of life. He may
have all wisdom so as to remove mountains, but if he has
not love, he is nothing. Thought projects itself by means
Heart: Blood and Love· 189
of the developed feeling and carries with it the emanated
energies of the consciousness in keeping with the advance-
ment of the heart (love).
The tendency of mortals to pass out with heart trouble,
in these days of strenuous living, .is stimulated by two
aspects of forces. First, there is a continual mastery of
the bodily forces, as well as their stimulations through
the Life current that has opened in the race the last quar-
ter of a century, this subjecting the heart to forces of a
different nature from the purely material. Second, the
stress and strain of living, due to the end of mortality,
with the many forms of adulterations attending material-
ity's demise, impose burdens upon the vital organs which
particularly affect the heart. The consciousness is more
sensitive as it reaches the state of "living soul," and is
more directly affected by forces of thought and feeling.
The heart more directly relates to the physical organ-
ism, hence, bears the brunt of the forces of materiality
that are imposed upon egos at the close of mortality.
Heart disease is often a sign of an overworked organ, and
rest is seen as a factor of cure. It may also be induced
by an impure or deficient blood stream, this necessitating
a change of diet, and a replenishing of the body to offset
mineral deficiency. The glandular system, that underlies
the circulatory system, may need adjustment, advanced
healing methods permitting a remineralization of the
system that restores vitality and vigor to the organs of
the body. Considering the many forces of a different
nature that penetrate the consciousness of man today,
people fare well, for these are particularly constructive
or destructive in their scope of action.
The seed of the natural life is in the blood, though it
is gathered to the generative organs for use in organisms
that have not yet become attuned to the Principle of
Divine Love. It is possible through the transformed
thought and feeling to gain the consciousness of Truth,
and to impregnate the blood with the energies of Christ-
Seed. The Christ-Seed is gained through overcoming the
tendency of utilizing sexual seed for material and sensual
190 Spiritual Significance of the Body
purposes. The mystical principles associated with the
blood of Christ, as a redeeming factor to the race, is in
the translation of the flesh and blood of the sexual crea-
ture to the qualities of Divine Substance and Love. This
is accomplished by overcoming the sexual love and the
desire to form oneself in mortality through the processes
of propagation (law of sin and death).
The attainment of Divine Love, through overcoming the
sexual love, is not a mass-mind necessity, though every
ego graduating from the temporary love and life to the
eternal, must pass through this Door; translating the fruit
of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil by which
one enters into the Tree of Life. One eats the fruit of the
tree of the knowledge of good and evil when one finishes
the natural plane, translating its energies to the qualities
of the spiritual; offsetting in oneself all adverse forces of
darkness by which Light and Truth may be. To eat is to
make one's own. Each ego must take up his own dual
progression to the Principles of Truth, by which the Wis-
dom and Love of God may quicken the consciousness of
eternal life and being. Before one can eat the flesh, and
drink the blood of Christ or Truth, one must have par-
taken of the forces of good and evil so as to become con-
scious of the dual nature. This is a spiritual eating that
makes for immortality, in contradistinction to the sexual
eating of good and evil that promoted mortality.
The mystical aspects of the blood are elucidated in the
hook, "Science of Love With Key to Immortality," by the
author. It is not within the service of this book to go
fully into the mysteries associated with spiritual progres-
sion. The enlightened state of mind is a renewed heart,
and this means a changed spirit and body, affecting the
organs of the body, so as to bring their forces into subjec-
tion to the inner Laws of Being. All feeling forces must
he conformed to Love before the Heart of Divine Love
can mother the ego into a new state of being. This is the
requirement of all graduating from the temporary plane
of existence to the plane of the eternal.
The natural organism must reckon with the latent
Heart: Blood and Love 191
forces of materialism which arise on the plane of con-
sciousness, when it is spiritually quickened. This involves
the forces of darkness progressed, as well as the remnants
of drugs that infest the system. The liberation of the forces
of drugs, through fasting and natural cleansing, often
proves a shock to the system, even as the uncovering of the
hidden emotions and hells. This shock centers to the
heart which ministers to the entire organism, and
accounts somewhat for its heavier burden in these closing
days of mortality. That people die of heart failure, when
the forces of age impose themselves upon the conscious-
ness, is an advancement over their being subjected to
other forms of diseases. People often treat their auto-
mobiles and other mechanical apparatus with greater
respect than they do their bodies, imposing the effect of
filthy combinations of food upon the heart, as well as
upon other organs, all of which affect the natural expres-
sion of man.
Experimentation in controlling the various forces of
the natural body would be orderly at the time its forces
were being subjected to the spiritual laws, this giving rise
to many freak expressions of endurance and adulterous
activities among mortals. The perversities of mortality
must be revealed, as well as its virtues, these being
uncovered at the end of mortality. The uncovering of
adverse forces, and their subsequent mastery, operate
to change the thought and feeling, and to make one ready
for a higher state of progression. It is this change of
heart that constitutes repentance, a turning away from
that formerly expressed when not compatible with laws
of harmony. A change of heart, spiritually identified, will
affect the health and general condition of the body;
though it must be superseded by the operation of the Law
of Divine Love to set man free from the material house
of clay, and to identify him as a living temple of Being.
Fear as to the health of the heart must be overcome.
Life is not in the beats of the heart, but in the Spirit of
Divine Love that opens within the consciousness, when
one is sufficiently advanced to permit it. When Divine
192 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Love is opened in the consciousness, the ecstasy of Being
floods the organism, making all lesser ecstasies colorless
and valueless. The Divine Love can pierce the heart,
disseminating Qualities of Being to the entire organism;
as well as make of a coordinated ego a Throne of Divine
Power, by which the entire race is replenished and reborn
for another cycle of progression. This is done at the end
of mortality, and is the means by which immortality is
identified among men; and the New Order in the Ages
is revealed, in which a righteous expression of Love will
reign.
MEDITATION
I rejoice in the dominion of Divine Love and its har-
monizing power.
"Create in me a clean heart, 0 God, and renew a right
spirit within me."
The Law of Divine Love now frees me from the forces
of mortality.
SOLAR PLEXUS: SOUL AND ORDER
THE Solar Plexus is situated at the pit of the stom-
ach. It is a great nerve center, especially relating
to the system of Order that is continually operative
in the organism. It is the physical identity of the animal
soul, the seat of the forces of the will of emotions. There
are many plexuses relating to the spinal column, all of
which coordinate, as to forces, with the solar plexus. The
orderly system of expression, common to the organs of
the body when the laws of Nature are unobstructed, is
from the solar plexus. Order has its centralization to the
navel, this symbolizing the connection that man has with
the Mother Principle of Creation from whence he came.
It is through the animal soul that one makes autosug-
gestions and deals with the subconscious forces. The
animal soul is the seat of the animal nature and is closely
allied with the generative organs. Autosuggestion pertains
to mind, renewed in selfish desire, therefore any impres-
sion made upon the animal soul, of a higher nature than
the ordinary thought and feeling, will bring forth a higher
result. Self-consciousness, reaching the apex of selfishness
the last century, experienced this phenomenal advance-
ment, both within itself and on the outer plane of its
environment. The time had come when the animal soul
and the mortal mind could r eap their fruit of temporary
good, these factors of self-consciousness being stimulated
by the quickening received from the Spirit, whose time
had come to produce the reality of man. Consciousness
of the self, in the promotion of the symbol of reality, is
the first essential toward a higher advancement.
The subconsciousness is filled with impressions hereto-
fore thought and felt, and is of no higher nature than the
character of the thought and feeling. The piled-up forces
of the subconsciousness are given liberty through more
intense thought and feeling, this causing their forces to
arise in forms of discord, or as temporary good. This is
[193]
194 Spiritual Significance of the Body
coincidental to the quickening of the hells and darkness,
through the operation of Divine Intelligence, functioned
by those putting on the Mind of the Spirit. The hells arise
that they may be overcome by Truth, this paving the way
for universal service.
The Soul is not directly of the physical organism, though
it is the totality of the feeling nature. When identified in
reality, the Soul is united with the Spirit and is controlled
in Wisdom and Love. Feelings that do not partake of
Wisdom and Love make up the animal soul. It is the
animal soul that forms the psychic environment of the
organism, making contact also with the unredeemed
forces of all people. Egos are subject, in their unregen-
erated states, to the influences arising within their own
consciousness, as well as those issuing from the race mind.
The mastering of these influences, both within and with-
out, is essential toward the establishment of harmony and
well-being. The introduction of higher energies of love
and intelligence may temporarily disturb the organism,
but when adjustments are made, the consciousness is
lifted above the lower influences, which is protective to
the ego.
The Soul has its physical centralization to the chest
region, and relates to the vital organs. It is the ecstasy
of energies of Wisdom and Love, when freed from the
influences of mortality, and is united with the Spirit. The
soul, when united with the Spirit, centralizes in its physi-
cal forces to the lungs, and in its spirit-forces to the heart.
There is only one heart but two lungs. The lungs indicate
the duality of the soul, respecting the animal and the
spiritual nature of man. When the spiritual nature is
supreme, the ego is the soul or functional point for the
Principles of Being, though in being united to the Spirit,
one becomes a living spirit rather than a living soul. How-
ever, before one can be a living spirit, one must become
a living soul. There is a scientific order of unfoldment.
The living soul is the natural consciousness perfected
by which is the spiritual; while the living spirit is the per-
fection of the spiritual by which is Christ. Christ is the
Solar Plexus: Soul and Order 195
Truth, the united Wisdom (Spirit) and Love (Soul),
though in the union they become one and cannot be so
distinctly premised, for there are no more two but one
by which the flesh of the Word is revealed as spiritual
man. Spirit is the identity of God in man, while Soul is
consciousness of man, consciously gained. The two as
one is conscious consciousness, the Son of Man, with which
the Son of God conjoins to fashion the reality of being.
The animal soul characterizes mortality. It is dual in
character and is made up of good and evil. When suprem-
acy of good is gained, man becomes capable of being a
living soul. The living soul is humanity of consciousness
gained through developing the knowledges of good and
evil to a finish, or cessation, this giving rise to spiritual
advancement. The good that complements evil is reac-
tive to evil, therefore is not the eternal good to be gained.
The eternal goodness issues from the unfolding spiritual
qualities, and characterizes consciousness when identified
in living spirit. The soul of mortals is not eternal, but a
transitory aggregation of forces, made up of energies of
thought and feeling that are temporary in character.
The immortal is the beginning of the unfoldment of
eternal qualities, and, when consummated is individuality
of consciousness. The immortal is identified when con-
sciousness of Truth is opened, hence, individuality is
gained in Truth and not in the material evolution of the
mortal. The immortal soul characterizes individuality of
consciousness, therefore mortals do not retain individ-
uality after death for they have never attained it. Mortals
are personalities in processes of unfoldment, the attain-
ment of the living soul indicating the end of mortality
and the unfoldment of immortality. Immortality climaxes
in living spirit, this identifying Christ, by which conscious-
ness of eternal life and being is established.
It is through immortality that Divine Laws unfold their
Plan to fashion man in eternal nature, and to redeem the
body. Bodily redemption is the goal for man, though it
must be preceded by a redeemed spirit. The spirit is
redeemed when consciousness is freed from the limita-
196 Spiritual Significance of the Body
tions and bondages imposed upon it by mortal mind and
soul. These are offset through gaining spiritual under-
standing, and through being willing to let what is known
prove itself in the life. Immortality is not set upon one,
but it must be earned by putting off the forces of mor-
tality. This is accomplished by renewing the mind by
which the form of expression is changed, this opening
consciousness in capacity to contact the Divine Will, when
one surrenders self-sense and desire and lets the Will of
God work out the reality of being.
The mating of the soul with the spirit is the principle
of soul-mating. If men or women are used to entice those
putting on the willingness of letting the Divine Will
fashion the spiritual man so as to reveal reality of Being,
it is only that one may be tried and tested and proven
true to the principles and ideas known, or be proven false.
If false, the ego has an opportunity to master the unfin-
ished forces of materiality through closer alignment to
the Principles of the Spirit, and thus gains the freedom
desired. Through piling-up the energies of overcoming at
the Solar Plexus, they are distributed as the spirit of the
new creature, that aids in redeeming the organism. The
gross, material natures of mortals are not subject to the
spiritual laws, therefore one must be transformed in ele-
ments (form or body) by renewing the mind in intelli.-
gence and light.
Those who gain the soul-mating principle, that is, united
spirit and soul, are also united in mind and body, this
four-squaring the consciousness so as to gain the Love of
the Lord. Every ego is primarily betrothed to Christ, as
a virgin, and is expected to gain the virginal state. This
is the male-female state of being that partakes of the
nature of God. Such an organism of consciousness
becomes a Throne of Power by which the Qualities of
God, Christ, and Man, are projected into the universal,
this projection being the "coming of Christ." Thus the
standard of attainment is set for all states of conscious-
ness at the ends of cycles, as well as the Law of Judg-
ment entering to bring compensation or retribution to
Solar Plexus: Soul and Order 197
all egos, according to their states of unfoldment. An
orderly procedure of Divine Law operates to prove up
the race at ends of cycles, rendering to each one accord-
ing to the works or development of consciousness. "For
as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made
alive. But each in his own order : Christ, the firstfruits;
then they that are Christ's, at his coming."
Immunity to any of the forces of the animal soul pro·
motes the identification of the human soul, the living
soul, by which one can be progressed in reality of being.
The control of forces of feeling and thought has a decided
effect upon the organism. It is this progression that has
given rise, the last century, to greater health and more
beautiful bodies. The whole race has been benefited by
the advancing consciousness of a few, though gross,
material natures still exist to centralize the descending
forces of darkness that are gathered to their universal
plexuses, when the forces of light are also centralized. If
there is an ascension of consciousness there is also a
descension. The former pivots the.forces looking toward
Heaven, and the latter pivots the forces looking toward
Hell. Both Heaven and Hell are essential to the fulfil·
ment of the Divine Plan and Purpose.
There are universal plexuses even as there are plexuses
that center the nervous energy of the individual organ-
ism. The universal centers function the energies of light
and darkness, both serving toward mixing the energies
of the race mind that substance-essence may be formed;
though this essence is pre-eminently centered to Christ
Consciousness that controls both heaven and earth, and
by which the progression of the race is proved, and the
fruit of God and Christ revealed. The virgins represent
the fruit of God and Christ, while the identification of
potential immortality is a racial function, by which the
New Order in the Ages is worked out among men, embrac-
ing an orderly system of church and state.
Solar pertains to sun. The solar plexus is the son center,
but this is not the Son of God center. The Son of God cen-
ter is identified in the spiritual domain, and not in the
198 Spiritual Significance of the Body
physical organism; though the kingdom of Heaven, in
which is the spiritual, is within consciousness, and not in
the skies. The solar plexus is the symbolical representa-
tion of the Son of God center, the physically identified
forces that have been humanly progressed. The center
of humanity of forces is the Son of man. Humanity of
character is promoted through mastering the forces of
the natural man, relating to the spirit, soul, mind, and
body, while divinity is the gained spirituality of forces
conformed to Truth.
When an ego has mastered the tendencies (spirit).
feelings (soul), thoughts (mind), activities (will; body),
the human thus identified is connected with the under-
lying Divine Qualities of the heavenly domain of con-
sciousness, and the unfoldment of the real man begins.
Such an ego becomes a Solar Plexus in the universe of
forces, all flowing through him or her to the race mind
to enlighten and to advance the race's unfoldment. "I, if I
be lifted up, shall draw all men unto myself." It is the
solar plexus that centralizes the advancing forces of con-
sciousness, though it is not consciously active as a function
until animal soul is subjected. As animal soul is devel-
oped, mortal mind is progressed, until the I assumes
control over the feelings, through consciously gained
intelligence, this identifying the solar plexus as a center
by which the order of unfolding reality of being, is
revealed. However, the I must subject the forces of the
natural man, and in turn subject itself to the I Am, or
Divine Will, to permit the Laws of Being to operate to
bring forth the real state of being.
MEDITATION
Soul and Spirit are united in Wisdom and Love.
No sense of animality of forces can control man, for
he is controlled in the Law of Divine Love.
I am free spiritual being, identified in life and being.
STOMACH: SUBSTANTIALITY AND
IMPERSONALITY
THE Stomach has been called the eye of the body.
It is the identified natural intelligence, the seat of
the personality, the I. One's bodily elements are
of the character of the foods eaten, plus the character of
the intelligences and feelings promoted. The intelligence
of the stomach controls the whole digestive system, for
if the stomach is disordered, the whole system is dis-
turbed. Considering the ill-treatment given the stomach,
it must be concluded that it has a protective system of its
own, exercising a certain intelligence in dealing with its
contents, that transcends the knowledges of the I or per-
sonality.
The Stomach has been compared with the garbage can.
Yet, the contents of the garbage can has no saving chem-
ical system, being subjected only to decomposition and
putrefaction. The contents of a meal, dumped into a gar-
bage can, is not a fair representation of the stomach con-
taining the meal, for the stomach has power to deal with
the contents in a different manner. It is good to draw
attention to the necessity of giving the stomach a fair deal,
but man must be governed by understanding rather than
by fear. An overworked stomach, one that begins the
digestive processes because only a peanut has been eaten,
must be understood, if one is to promote the highest
expression of natural harmony. A stomach well treated
is a natural asset to anyone, for it assures a greater sense
of well-being.
The tongue registers the condition of the stomach, as
well as other parts of the alimentary tract. A hyperacid
condition is noted by enlarged papillae on the tongue,
looking like small strawberries, or by a flabby looking
tongue. Redness and sponginess of the gums, also indicate
a hyperacid state. The contents of the stomach are par-
ticularly acid, when in their normal state, the hyperacid
[199)
200 Spiritual Significance ·of the Body
condition being formed by inharmonious combinations of
foods; as well as by lack of elimination and the reabsorp-
tions of poisons resulting from faulty elimination.
The entire digestive system, identified in the alimentary
tract, has a common affinity through food. Foods that are
digested in the mouth, through the saliva and its com-
ponents, when properly accomplished, save the stomach
added work: inharmonious combinations of food are
always a burden to the stomach. It is not the purpose of
this book to go into the intricacies of digestion, nor to
map out harmonious combinations of foods, but rather
to show the spiritual significance of the different organs
of the body, though necessarily touching upon their par-
ticular functions on the natural plane.
The Stomach contains the ·gastric glands which are of
two kinds, the cardiac that relates to the oesophagus, and
the pyloric that relates to the small intestines. These
glands secrete the gastric juice that is composed princi-
pally of hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and rennin. The diges-
tion of the stomach is predominantly acid, its duty being
the preparation of foods for absorption and assimilation,
though the liver, pancreas, and small intestines put the
finishing touches to the foo<l elements before they can be
distributed for general use in the organism.
The two glands of the stomach signify the duality, the
three aspects of the gastric juice indicate the trinity. The
two and the three that occur on the natural plane always
relate to the five or the sense man. The stomach is the
seat of the personality of consciousness in relation to the
natural-physical organism. Too much thought about the
person, especially its woes and worries, will disturb the
stomach, even inducing vomiting. Anger, hatred, and
other personal feelings of a malevolent nature will ·upset
the stomach; while love and peace and other forces of
a beneficent nature promote harmony in the entire diges-
tive system.
It has been proven that the stomach is not only affected
by what the person thinks and feels, but that it becomes
the center of attack of personal forces. Malpractice, com-
Stomach: Substantiality and Impersonality 201
mon to the world the last century, is especially character-
ized by a disturbed stomach, even promoting vomiting
and excessive elimination. While much malpractice
comes from within one's own consciousness, due to the
ego not yet having taken dominion over the adverse
forces that arise through superseding them with higher
mental and spiritual qualities, it can also come from the
domain of other persons; arising because of the opposi-
tion of the race mind to ideas that transcend its plane
of thought and feeling.
One gaining individuality of character, through over-
coming the forces of mortal mind and soul, is especially
malpracticed though not always consciously so. The sub-
conscious forces arise in attack on the spiritual, this pre-
cipitating chemical changes that upset the stomach, be-
cause of its relation to the I-center of consciousness. One
individually unfolding is especially attacked, until dom-
inancy of the spiritual is supreme. The universal work
begins when the individual is completed; that is to say,
that when an ego has mastered the adverse forces of his
or her own consciousness, one is eligible to serve in mas-
tering the adverse forces of a racial nature. After one
has mastered the individual forces, and has gained the
consciousness of Truth, one is given in Law of Divine Love
for the life of the race, this precipitating a universal
chaos which is equivalent to the malpractice of the indi-
vidual, though it is universally functioned. This universal
chaos is the complementary opposite to the cosmos, both
being used in the Laws of God to produce the substance-
essence out of which reality of being is formed. Thi:'l
conflict of forces embraces the suffering with Christ, by
which one is made ready to partake of his resurrection;
that is, to be raised in reality of life and being.
The Stomach, in its universal aspect, typifies the chem-
ical center and would be especially disturbed during the
change of the universe that corresponds with the change
taking place in the nature of man. The gaseous state
through which one passes, that cannot be traced to any-
thing physical even by the best of doctors, is a figure of
202 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the universal change that takes place in fashioning a new
world, in which the new man can live. However, people
suffering from gas, induced by discordant physical con·
ditions, should not attempt to suffer for the Kingdom of
Heaven's sake in a condition that has nothing to do with
the formation of that Kingdom. One does not suffer as a
sick man when suffering with Christ. The Kingdom of
Heaven is not meat and drink, but joy and peace and love
of the Holy Spirit. Its formation within the consciousness
is figured on the plane of the physical, and some physical
changes can be traced to the operation of spiritual laws.
It is the Fire Principle, projected at the end of mor-
tality, as the "wrath of the Lamb" that precipitates the
elements that lead to a changing nature of man and the
universe. The elements of fire, air, earth, and water are
disturbed in their relation to the organism, when the
universal change is taking place in the authority of the
Divine Will. The fire relates to Spirit, though on the outer
plane it relates to the passional factor of the self-con-
sciousness which is disturbed when the Fire of Divine
Love enters consciousness to make the righteous state
of man. Air pertains to mind, earth to body, and water
to soul, all of these elements undergoing a change in
the body of man, according to the changing qualities of
these departments of consciousness.
The Stomach symbolizes the physical substance center
of the organism, and registers the natural substantiality
of consciousness developed. Substance is one of the seven
Qualities of Being, as well as corresponding to one of the
Seven Rights of Government, that is, to Food. The
stomach is more concerned with food than with anything
else. Food is the first God-given Right of man, and any
violation of this Right among men, through govern-
mental jurisdiction that is based on limitation, brings
disorder to the whole body. The whole body, universally,
is the governmental body, the national group, though
individually it is the organism of the body.
"Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word
that proceedeth out of the mouth of God," which is to
Stomach: Subsi<inlialiiy and Impersonality 203
say, that the outer food cannot sustain the real nature
of man, but he must come to partake of the substance-
essence of intelligence that makes for the real state ·of
being. Actual knowledge of food is necessary on the outer
plane, with right combinations, this conforming to right
combinations of thoughts and feelings of the mental and
the soul plane. When the life of man is discerned to be of
the Spirit, he will feed upon living words of Truth and
raise the nature of the whole organism from the material
to the spiritual plane.
As one spiritually discerns what is food and what is
good to eat, ceasing to eat of the dual tree of good and
evil, physical changes are undergone which produce
changed chemistry of the organism. Changed chemistry
demands changed combinations of food. Food is not a
matter that can be definitely settled, for what the body
enjoys one day it may disagree with the next, according
to the mentality and the feeling controlling. It is not
until one is fairly poised in consciousness of Truth that
one can deal rightly with food; but it has a natural side
that cannot be offset, however advanced the conscious-
ness may become. The body has a right to the promotion
of natural harmony, and all who see the body as a vehicle
by which the consciousness has opportunity to perfect
itself are glad to intelligently cooperate in promoting
its well-being.
Impersonality is an offset to personality. Personality
is consciousness centered to the I: impersonality is con-
sciousness centered to the ideas underlying the things
with which the I most concerns itself. People become so
self-centered that their stomachs refuse to digest food.
One can, through a little sickness, so center to oneself
in self-pity, worry, and anxiety, as to greatly impair the
function of the digestive system. Grief will prevent the
digestion of the stomach, jealousy will disrupt the func-
tion of the liver, and stinginess tie up the circulation.
Man is what he thinks and feels, though what he eats
also gives character to the natural organism in the ab-
sence of higher intelligence. This is not to say that through
204 Spiritual Significance of the Body
higher intelligence one can discard eating, or disregard
the harmony of foods, but that one can control the lesser
forces and modify their effects.
It is not compatible with the higher intelligence to vio-
late the laws of the lower self and utilize the power of
the higher self to heal the effects of the violations. This
is to use the higher powers in a selfish spirit, and is to
eventually deprive oneself of their use. The overcoming
of selfishness is an essential step by which the animality
of nature is superseded by the humanity of character.
"Thou shalt not tempt the Lord, thy God," or intelligent
Principle of consciousness by violating natural laws,
thinking to rectify their effects by prayer and spiritual
treatment. Man is expected to be in control of the pas-
sions and appetites before he or she can invite the influx
of spiritual powers, or be opened to the intelligences of
the Spirit.
Impersonality characterizes consciousness that thinks
from effect to cause, and from the higher cause discerned
to a different effect. It is that capacity to see principles
not things, causes not effects, and to relate all things im-
personally to inner governing laws. The attainment of
impersonality has a marked effect upon the ego, freeing
him or her from many of the aspects of animality. It
especially permits the consciousness to free itself from
the gluttony of food. The gluttony of food is one of the
bondages of mortality: the control of appetite will change
one's taste in many directions. The stomach is especially
liberated through attaining impersonality, both as re-
specting the intake of food, and in relation to the forces
thought and felt, that especially pivot to the natural man.
Substantiality of character supersedes personality,
while the perfecting of impersonality identifies individ-
uality. While genuine individuality is in the union of
the male and female qualities within the consciousness,
attained through overcoming the duality of forces that
characterizes the mortal pla1ie of evolution, its symbolical
representation must first be attained. Symbolical indi-
viduality is identified with the gaining of impersonality,
Stomach: Substantiality and Impersonality 205
the power to relate all things to the underlying spirit,
making for growth and substantiality. Impersonality sees
all things as forces of consciousness, even reducing people
to qualities and energies of spirit, soul, mind, and body.
Substantiality of character is developed through per-
fecting the natural plane of living. The many factors of
natural living that continually confront the ego must be
subjected to the I, and mastered. One is not substantial
so long as one feels that things can control the conscious-
ness. Man is expected to be a master on the plane of
natural living, not a slave to material conditions or things.
The perfecting of all things, so as to govern the outer
activities of life, is a prelude to becoming a master on
the inner planes of unfoldment. Substantiality must be
promoted on the natural plane before the Substance
Quality can identify, by which the spiritual consciousness
can be unfolded.
Substantiality is acquired by concentrating attention to
the things at hand, by giving attention to control of
thoughts, emotions, and words. It reaches its climax on
the plane of mental advancement, when the I consciously
knows itself. It is in the struggle of the I to master the
adverse forces of the natural world that the stomach is
affected by these forces, and malpractice is experienced.
However, when the adverse forces arising from within the
consciousness are mastered, there is an outer realm in
relation to others that must be subjected. One works out
the individual and the universal as .one, being always
prepared to serve others by serving oneself in mastering
the adverse forces. Substantiality of consciousness char-
acterizes completed natural man, and prepares the way
for the unfoldment of spiritual qualities.
The digestive process requires from five to six hours.
Meals should be five or six hours apart to assure the
finished digestion of one before another begins. If this
is not conformed to, the digestive system is overworked
and hyperacidity is easily promoted; as well as fermenta-
tion from the mixtures. The digested food of the stomach
is called chyme, symbolizing the milk of intelligence and
206 Spiritual Significance of the Body
love unfolding. The stomach is especially the natural
substance center by which the physical organism is nour-
ished, but this pertains to the substance of mortality and
not to the Substance of Spirit. The stomach is the re-
ceiving station of the food intake, as well as the giver of
it to the entire organism, therefore is a center of natural
love and life. The stomach is comparable to the powers
of mental digestion and assimilation, by which ideas are
laid hold of and made applicable to the life, and by which
the spiritual nature is nourished and sustained. Even as
the chemical content of food is liberated in the stomach
and dealt with, so the chemical content of ideas is lib-
erated by mind, these producing harmonious or inhar-
monious effects upon the natural man, and the skeleton
of the spiritual that underlies the physical.
Self-magnetism, induced by self-thought, impairs di-
gestion. Self-magnetism is the effect of personalized
thought and feeling, the I centering all things to itself.
Condemnation and malevolent forces of personality are
destructive to the whole digestive system. This is no
doubt due to the connection the organs bear to the nervous
system. The stomach is controlled by the pneumogastric
and sympathetic nerves, emotions and thoughts carrying
their energies by means of nerves, thus affecting the
organs according to their relation to the nervous system.
It is through the sympathetic nerves that egos are sensi-
tive to the forces of the race, and are subject to mal-
practice.
The Stomach is especially the seat of the natural man.
It is only in its underlying significance that it relates
to the spiritual. Its relation to substance, assimilation,
and digestion, its response to thought and feeling, con-
nects it to the inner plane of being. Its relation to the
natural plane is especially centered to food and its effect.
Purification of food will aid the stomach and also pro-
mote purification of thought and feeling; by promoting
harmonious energies in the body that invite peaceful
thoughts and feelings. A few approach the spiritual un-
foldment through the processes of food-control and puri-
Stomach: Substantiality and Impersonality 207
fled natural habits, though there is no spiritual unfold-
ment on the part of anyone without it including the
physical. It is to say, however, that the natural controlled
to purity is not sufficient to open one to the spiritual,
without a corresponding opening from the inner Spirit,
made possible through purified thoughts and feelings.
The matter of food selection, harmony and effect, is
a distinct study. Food has a decided effect upon the
natural organism, though it is rather that which cometh
out of the heart, than that which goes out of the stomach,
that indicates the character of the man. Purity of char-
acter promotes harmony, and purity of food offsets age
to a considerable degree. It has been said that youth is
elimination, age is congestion. Fasting from food gives
the organs of the body a chance to expel the slime, in-
cidental to their over-functioning; a process well devel-
oped ill those lacking intelligent understanding of man,
and the real purpose of living. It is not alone the excess
of food that disrupts the harmony of the organism, but
the excretia of the organs themselves must be reckoned
with. Fasting and dieting are excellent means for cleans-
ing the organs of the body, but must be approached in
understanding and balance.
The Stomach may be wiser in dealing with foods than
undeveloped mortals, but it has its limit of endurance.
Ignorance must he superseded by intelligence on all
planes of expression if the well-being of the natural man
is to be promoted. Man does not live for his stomach,
living to eat, but lives to fashion the spirit, soul, mind,
and body of himself or herself in coordinate relation to
the inner governing Laws. Know Thyself can well be
coupled with Control Thyself, if the mental and the
natural planes of consciousness are to be controlled in
preparation for the unfoldment of the spiritual, the pre-
destined end of the natural man. The revelation of the
spiritual man follows in systematic order the cycle of
progression devoted to the unfoldment of the natural
man. The natural controlled, opens the way for the cor-
responding inner qualities that progress the mentality of
208 Spiritual Significance of the Body
man, and invites the spiritual qualities and principles
into action, by which the real man is identified.
The real man is immortal. The immortal man will
have an entirely different relation to the body, and to
the things of the world than the inortal m an. Scientists
now predict the capacity to live on concentrated foods,
and the elimination of much of the drudgery of living.
The author is certain that when the universe is restored
to its proper relation, and man is revealed in reality of
being, the curse of labor and the system of food intake,
as have characterized mortality, shall have passed away.
The ethers themselves will supply the essences of food
to a considerable degree, the author having experienced
the capacity to draw to herself from the sun and air
vitalizing energies that acted as nourishment, after long
periods of fasting and prayer; which she feels to be a
forerunner of a reality later to identify.
Man is not made until he is spiritually revealed. 'When
he is returned to the substance-essence (dust: spiritual
energies) from which he was taken, he will go free from
the elements of the mortal body and from its system of
living. Great expressions are in store for him, but the
mastering of the forces of the natural plane, both in their
animal and their mental aspects, is essential to reveal the
reality of being. The I must be subjected to the I Am.
The stomach, the seat of the I will, must be correspond-
ingly controlled with the mental development, food being
appreciated for its harmonious elements, and appetite
being controlled to intelligence in the reborn humans.
MEDITATION
I am established in impersonality of spirit and mind.
I am nourished in the substance of food, and in Truth.
The function of every organ of the body is now express-
ing in perfection, and I rejoice in wholeness und harmony.
LIVER: SERVICE AND BALANCE
T
HE Liver is the largest gland in the body, situated
on the right side, immediately below the dia-
phragm. It weighs from forty to sixty ounces. It
receives the blood from the hepatic artery and the portal
vein. It is an organ of digestion and secretion. Its secre-
tion relates to the gall-bladder, and is called bile. The
liver is not only an organ of digestion but it is one of
purification, relating to the blood by the portal circula-
tion. Glycogen or a sugar product is distributed to the
blood through the portal circulation, though the liver is
also a storehouse for this product.
The Liver of the human is divided into five lobes, again
suggesting the five sense man. It is an animating organ,
increasing life and vitality to the blood. The blood is the
life of the flesh. Portal pertains to door, the liver relating
to the door that opens into the blood to identify the
portal circulation, by which the life of the flesh is en-
hanced and increased. The liver was formerly thought
to be the seat of the amorous desires. Cowards are called
"white-livered." It can be seen that man has attempted
to associate the thoughts and emotions with the organs
of the body; though it remained for the mentality to be
opened to perceive the spiritual and its relation to the
physical, to give proper understanding of the relation
of forces of consciousness to the organs of the body.
The Liver, as the organ of animation of life, implies
the action of the life principle. The activity of the life
principle makes for living. Liver is Live with the r added.
It is the life of the flesh that is promoted in the animality
of man, this leading to the capacity to put on humanity
of character, by which the Spirit of Life can arise. The
Spirit of Life is Christ. Christ is the Door by which the
circulation of the energies of the Creative Source can
influx through the consciousness of Man, this being sym-
bolized by the portal circulation of the liver. That this
(209]
210 Spiritual Significance of the Body
circulation relates to a sweet product, viz., sugar, is also
suggestive of the principle of Divine Love that is ema-
nated through the circulation of the Christ energies. The
liver undergoes marked changes in the body of one being
renewed py putting on the ideas and energies of the Life
of the Spirit.
A sluggish liver means an impure system. Liver, re-
lating to the life of animality, is slowed up through the
failure of the ego to express the activities of living. The
animation of the organs of the body responds to the ex-
pressions of man, being stimulated or retarded according
to his activities, or the lack of them. The significance of
the liver, in relation to the natural man, is one of Balance,
though in relation to its circulatory system it is one of
Service. An unbalanced liver will permit the bile to flow
toward the stomach, the bile being one of the few liquids
that travel uphill. A sluggish liver may promote jaundice
and other maladies, though the ill-health of any of the
organs is the discomfort of all of them, either through
overwork or through sympathetic relations.
Service is the capacity to give freely, which is also the
capacity to receive freely. Service must be balanced to
promote harmony. However, balance between the natural
and the spiritual planes of consciousness is a deeper
functioning of balance than that common to the plane of
mortal mind and sense. Balance is equilibrium. An un-
balanced liver, especially, results in dizziness. This may
affect the eyes as in the case of biliousness, for the intel-
ligence of the natural plane, which the eyes centralize
and signify, is overthrown.
Balance must be maintained on the natural plane as
respecting ideas and words, and words and acts. To
establish balance, the outer is governed by the inner, this
giving rise to genuine service. An unbalanced condition
of the liver, resulting in too little or too much bile, may
arise from lack of proper elimination that poisons the
system; or it may arise from hatred, envy, jealousy, and
other forms of intense malevolent emotions. People of
a "nervey" tendency are thought to have too much "gall."
Liver: Service and Balance 211
Gall and nerve both relate to the liver, in this sense, and
can be developed excessively on the outer plane so as to
offset the balance of the organs relating. Since not any-
thing exists on the visible plane except through the ac-
tivity of thought, it follows that the organs of man, the
totality of form, have back of them ideas that relate to
mind. Mind is related, directly or indirectly, to the Divine
Intelligence that brought it forth.
Service is the keynote of living. To genuinely serve one
must have something to give. One must give in order
to receive, yet take no thought of receiving. Life, when
expressed in order and justice, is a perfectly operating
system, as perfect as the body itself when conformed to
the Law of Harmony. The giving function of the liver
relates it to the portal circulation, the sugar that is dis-
tributed being comparable to the Love quality of God
that is given for the life of the race. The circulatory sys-
tem signifies the love of consciousness flowing throughout
the organism, nourishing and sustaining the whole man.
It connects with the liver, through the portal circulation,
this uniting the spirit and the body in promoting the life
of the flesh. That the love element becomes impure
through mortal living does not forbid its purification,
when one enters the Door that leads to Life. The purify--
ing function of the organism is comparable to the for-
giveness of sins, though this is not accomplished without
activity on the part of the consciousness.
Service on the outer plane is work, when work is per-
formed in the right spirit. Properly expressed service is
that which is good for all, therefore must be expressed
in a selfless spirit. A selfless spirit is possible only when
one is attained to Love, which is the Law governing bal-
anced giving and receiving. Properly expressed service
means balance, and balance is law and justice operative
in all directions. The liver is the balance wheel of the
whole digestive system. When balanced with the stomach,
the seat of the natural I, h_
armony and order are pro-
moted. When out of balance, the bile is thrown in the
direction of the stomach, the digestion is upset, and slug-
212 Spiritual Significance of the Body
gishness and constipation follow. As to function, bile
especially acts upon fats, emulsifying them for digestive
processes.
The bile or gall is secreted in the gall-bladder, attached
to the under surface of the liver. Gall is an important
factor in life, though it must be balanced with intelligence
and order, as a factor of consciousness, else one becomes
too nervey or nosey. There are many galling experiences
in living on the plane of mortality, and only balanced in-
telligence and love can remove the necessity of them and
their effects. It is through the gall that absorption and
assimilation are promoted, as related to the liver; but
it is also through the mental gall that one is made to
assimilate and to absorb many things that make for char-
acter and, eventually, freedom from mortality altogether.
The capacity to "take" the many things imposed upon
one at the end of mortality is balanced by the service
rendered in projecting toward the race the spiritual
qualities gained. This is to drink the cup of anguish, the
cup of gall, that the cross of the spiritual qualities with
the forces of the race necessitates, in orde.r to graduate
the ego from the plane of mortality forever. When this
cup of anguish is drunk in service to the Divine Laws,
one wipes out the elements of mortality and identifies
the essences of the reality of Life and Being. The neces-
sity of drinking this cup of gall is not from the needs of
the Initiate of the cycle, but as from the race that is still
bound to the hellish elements; this necessitating the in-
troduction of the Christ Qualities in service to God and
humanity.
The Liver, on the right side of the body, signifies the
wounded side in the Law of the Cross. This is mystical,
but it is not without its relation to the bodily nature, for
it is the fulfilment of the Law of the Cross, in the second
coming of Christ, that prepares the essences out of which
the immortal bodies of the race will be fashioned. Both
sides or poles of the Law of the Cross are pierced in the
two comings of Christ, this controlling the dual nature
to the authority of the Divine Laws. A race does not
Liver: Service and Balance 213
pass into a New Order without a clearly defined operation
of the Divine Laws, no more than the organs of the body
perform their functions without definite controlling
laws. Ignorance of these laws cannot prevent the func-
tions from persisting. The geography of the country, as
to cities, especially the United States, can be likened to
the organism of the body, with specific cities correspond-
ing to particular organs.
The Liver is the seat of adjustment establishing bal-
ance and service. Balanced service is the establishment
of justice, for it involves the righteous expression of giving
and receiving. There would be no living without the
liver, nor would there be the fashioning of the race with-
out a governing Head, that controls the functions of un-
foldment. Live is evil reversed. The mortal course of
the race is in a reversed position to the laws of justice,
order, and harmony, but this is a necessity in the natural
unfoldment; by which egos are made to become con-
scious of themselves through tribulations and to reverse
their position from the material to the spiritual. The
work of transforming the nature of man from the mortal
to the immortal premise directly relates to the liver, for
it involves the processes of purification and blood trans-
formation, by which the seed-life is made to connect with
the Spirit of Life. The seed-life, carried in the blood,
changes with the changing of the blood. "There is no
redemption without the shedding of blood," is a mystical
truth but it also has a physical application.
.The spleen signifies the mystical wound in the Law of
the Cross, associated with the first coming of Christ, but
the liver bears the wound at the second coming. This is
not to say that the liver itself is pierced by the sword of
the enemies of Christ, but that the life element it signi-
fies, and which makes up the mortal organism, is pierced
by the sword of Truth and its emanating energies of
Divine Love. This gives rise to energies within the or-
ganism of a different character from those generated in
the purely mortal processes of living, resulting in a
Ghanged nahire. On~ changed in spirit, soul, and, mind i&
214 Spiritual Significance of the Body
changed in will or body, and the forces standing back of
the center of life in the physical organism, that is, the
liver, register this change. The body is not solid matter,
but is made up of formed energies of spirit, soul, mind,
and will. The change in the nature of these forces is a
change in the nature of the organism of consciousness.
The flesh of the Word is brought forth through conform-
ing the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body to the Love
of the Lord; that is, conforming them to the Laws of
Being (God).
Anemic conditions that arise from the changing nature
of man from the mortal to the immortal premise relate
to the change in the life principle, and are associated with
the liver, in its symbolical sense. There are reflective
aspects of anemia that arise from the natural organism,
but this could not be without a change underlying the
natural, which is in the spiritual plane. This is not to
say that the one changing on the natural plane is related
to the spiritual, for the spiritual underlies the natural,
and is controlled in the Divine Laws that have a universal
or racial effect; for they issue from One that is the au-
thority over all. The eating of liver to enhance the cor-
puscles of the blood is corrective when anemic conditions
are from the material nature; but when the changes are
produced in the organism through the introduction of
spiritual energies, incidental to transmutation, they are
untouched by material methods of healing.
What is produced in the body through the operation
of Truth can be controlled only by Truth; but what is
reflective and symbolical in its effect requires the co-
operative action of intelligence and will to restore balance
and harmony. One is admonished to render unto Caesar
the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that
are God's. This is as applicable to the physical organism
as it is to the plane of the spiritual, for the actuality of
the spiritual is always on the physical plane. Balance
established between mind and soul, or ideas and emo-
tions, is also the establishment of balance between the
spirit and soul, that is, of energies from the inner Prin-
Liver: Service and Balance 215
ciples of Life and their relation to the consciousness.
Finally, balance established in relation to thought, word,
feeling, and act four-square the consciousness, preparing
the way for translation into higher energies, by which the
inner Laws can act to reveal a higher state of being.
Gall-stones, a malady relating to the liver and the gall-
bladder, signify the relation that man has to the mineral
kingdom. Mineral elements become segregated forming
stones, this promoting discord in the organism relating.
The same processes take place in forming the organism of
man as take place in forming the organism of the uni-
verse. Other liver inharmonies than gall-stones may arise
but nearly all of them can be traced to the condition of
the blood, except when induced by predominantly ·ad-
verse forces of thought and feeling. One centered to bit-
terness can disturb the whole digestive system. Diseased
conditions that are produced from the mental can be
healed from the mental, coupled with the spiritual; or
they can be healed by a changed mental state, but those
diseases that arise from the violation of natural laws must
be dealt with in the law of Caesar.
Bile is antiseptic, hence is a purifier in the organism,
even as the gall of mortal living, revealed in the many
anguished experiences, is purifying. The liver is com-
parable to the system of industry that characterizes the
mortal plane of existence. When it becomes disturbed it
promotes constipation. The system of industry is con-
stipated at intervals during mortal progression, though it
is also troubled with dysentery or too free circulation of
its energies and powers. However, the whole mortal sys-
tem of living is likened to excretia in relation to the
Divine Laws, hence the tendency persists to eliminate it
and to introduce a new system of living, more compatible
with service and justice.
It is a scientific conclusion that harmonious service,
mentally and physically balanced, has a harmonious ef-
fect upon the physical organism, giving added powers
to the excretory organs. The purer one becomes in con-
cepts of living the more marked the changes that take
216 Spiritual Significance of the Body
place in the physical organism. The body is the workshop
of the mind, though the mental qualities underlying the
organs of the body must be quickened to promote physi-
cal changes. It is not that the body that now is becomes
the body that is to be, but that the ego must lay the foun-
dation of the body to be, by establishing the harmonious
and balanced mental qualities by which the Principles of
Being form themselves. The mental change taking place
in the race the last century is a forerunner of new bodily
expression, though many are called and few chosen in the
final proving up of the inner Principles.
The wonder of the liver is likened to the wonder of the
whole system of mortal living. This system objectifies
itself as industry, with the blood of the body signifying
itself as finances that promote industry. Both work and
money are essential to a harmonious expression of life,
but both have to be adjusted to a changing body that the
renewed mind has promoted. Thus we find ourselves
today in a cycle of living that is not compatible, in many
ways, with the advanced spirit and mind of those in
whom the governing Laws of Being are upheld. The
standards gained in one, in whom the Divine Laws have
set up their government, become the standards of attain-
ment for all; even to a changed physical condition that
environs the whole race. The solution to all problems will
be found in an understanding of the Principles of Life
and Being, therefore must be applied by one spiritually
identified in Life.
The restoration of the body to energies and qualities,
which the body primarily is, is one way by which the
material forces formed in promoting the mortal body are
broken up; this incidentally changing the elements of
the physical body and setting up the demand for a higher
system of healing. The system of healing keeps pace with
the needs of the body, these being promoted from the
changing mind. Therefore, as respecting the natural
man, egos are expected to seek and to find the healing
agents that correspond to their need, and to be as wise
as the children of the world, though children of Light.
Liver: Service and Balance 217
It is not compatible with spiritual laws that all inhar-
monies pertaining to the body be subjected to the spir-
itual healing system. The mind of the flesh is enmity
toward God, and cannot be subjected to God. It follows
that conditions produced by this mind are not subjected
to the Divine Mind and its Laws, though a changed mental
attitude, on the part of the ailing one, may place one in
better relation to meet the issue. It is not to say that God
is powerless to heal the sickness that has arisen from the
material plane, but that this has been promote'd in the
chaos and unknown forces of materiality and is not
contacted by the Cosmos and the Principles of Truth.
"Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God,"
that is, be conformed to the Principles of Being. The
many aspects promoted by the mind of the flesh make up
the flesh and blood creature of mortality. These forces
may be dealt with through higher mental illumination
and brought to nothingness, mentally, but are not healed.
Only that is healed that has been held in bondage to ma-
teriality while bearing an innate relation to Spirit. This
is the reason that spiritual healing is not inclusive of all
who desire it. People desire healing for the sake of the
harmony it brings, but must innately relate to the Laws
of the Spirit if they are to be spiritually healed; otherwise,
they must be healed in the laws of Caesar.
Spiritually progressing egos, as well as the mentally
progressing who have not yet attained to the spiritual,
have been deceived as respecting the body, not dividing
· the spiritual and the natural functions. They have ex-
pected the bitter tree to bring forth sweet fruit. The whole
digestive tract is of the animal nature and is not directly
related to spiritual laws. It may be influenced by a higher
mentality, for poise of soul and mind give more har-
monious tone to the organism, enabling one to meet the
trials of the flesh that beset the mortal ego. The spiritual
man will not have the same alimentary tract, for he will
have entirely transcended the necessity of eating and
eliminating, as they have characterized the mortal nature
of man.
218 Spiritual Significance of the Body
It is body that is to be perfected, but this is from the
spiritual laws. The mastery of the bodily forces on the
outer plane of living, subjecting all its forces to the
mental, is a means by which the mental is subjected to the
Spirit. The Spirit introduces its qualities toward the
physical to produce higher states of bodies, but the for-
mation of the immortal body is through the Lord, or Laws
of God, and not through the intelligence or will of man;
though man's intelligence and will must conform to these
Laws to permit God's action. The tendency to save the
old body, as a means by which consciousness may per-
fect itself, is commendable; but the attainment of the
spiritual body is in subjecting the forces of mind and
soul, spirit and will, to the Truth, by which the body,
as it has been idealized to be manifested, can come forth.
This is the flesh of the Word, that in which there will be
no inharmony or anything that maketh a lie. Then man
will be the seat of the industry of God, by which the will
of God can be done in the earth or formed plane, as it is
in the plane of Principles of Being.
MEDITATION
All the forces of consciousness are established in bal-
ance and harmony.
The organs of the body express in perfect form and
function.
I serve all in Truth, doing all things as unto the inner
Laws of Being.
SPLEEN: BIRTH, LIFE, DEATH
THE Spleen is the largest ductless gland, making it
distinct in function and significance. It is the point
where the interior system of the organism makes
connection with the exterior system. Its functioning has
been attended with much conjecture because of the mys-
tical connection it bears with the glandular system. The
glandular system makes up the interior mechanism of
which the organs of the body, in their function and ac-
tivity, are the outer mechanism.
It has been thought that the spleen is the birthplace
and burial ground of the red corpuscles, as well as the
begetting center of the white corpuscles. The corpuscles
are the disc like cells that float in the blood, a balance of
the red and the white ones being present in a state of
health. The spleen is especially active in establishing a
law of compensation, in diseased conditions, and in mas-
tering the inharmonies of the body. The spleen is also
associated with the alimentary tract, as it is found to he
enlarged after meals. This may be due to its relation to
the blood, by means of the corpuscles, for the blood is
pivoted to the organs of digestion at these times.
The Spleen has been long associated with ill-humour,
anger, and feelings of a malevolent nature. All the organs
of the body connect with energies of mind, directly or
indirectly, as well as bear a relation to the soul energies.
The animal soul is made up of energies of feeling gen-
erated on the plane of the senses, and bears a direct re-
lation to the blood. The spleen was thought to be a center
of emotions, indicating the primal thought of man was to
supersede the purely physical functioning with mental
perceptions. Since the activities of Divine Intelligence
brought about the form of man, which objectifies as body,
it is quite in keeping with the laws of mental progression
that man should attempt to connect the organs of the
body with the various mental processes that caused them
to be formed.
[219]
220 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The Divine Intelligence fashions the spiritual being of
man which will include the righteous expression of body.
This body will be snow-white, white like a dead man, but
it is brought forth in the Will of Divine Love and Laws
and not in the copulative energies (will) of the self crea-
tures. The mind of the flesh, by which the mortal body
has its existence, must be overcome with the Mind of the
Spirit, before the body that was created to be manifested
can be made substantial in consciousness, as essences and
energies of spiritually conceived ideas and principles.
Body is formed as qualities of being, existing in con-
sciousness like the radish in the radish seed. However,
consciousness must attain to reality, through knowing
Truth and putting on united Wisdom and Love, to bring
forth the reality of body.
The step between the mind of the flesh and the opera-
tion of the Mind of the Spirit is the metaphysical. This
is the capacity to see back of the physical to the mental,
hence, the mental that is above the physical pertains to
the material-physical, fashioned in the senses; and not
to the spiritual-physical that is fashioned from the Mind
of the Spirit. It is the spiritual-physical that is fashioned
from the essences and energies of the spiritually con-
ceived ideas and principles. The spiritual includes the
capacity to see all things in reconciliation to the Plan of
the Creator, though it is not to include all things in the
fulfilment of that Plan. The formation of the spiritual
is one with the unforming of the material, the energy of
dissolving matter being used to form the substance-es-
sence of the spiritual.
The body that now is must be changed. It is changed
through renewing the mind. If the mind is renewed in
mental forces the body is rejuvenated, and thus the higher
expression of health and prosperity that came into the
race the last century can be traced to the metaphysical
advancement. This is the temporary good, in contradis-
tinction to the temporary evil that had characterized the
progression of the race when on lower planes of develop-
ment. This higher current of mental advancement raised
Spleen: Birth, Life, Death 221
the energy-rate of the body to a higher degree, and set
into operation the demand for higher healing systems.
The demand called into action the supply, in exact opera-
tion of the Divine Laws that bring forth on the outer
planes what man has brought forth on the inner planes
of consciousness.
The system of living above outlined is comparable, in
the universal adaptation to the race, to the spleen in its
relation to the body. It is that by which the inner is con-
nected with the outer and higher energies are liberated.
The spleen undergoes considerable change in the trans-
forming of the body to a higher energy-rate. The anemic
condition that arose in the race, especially the last half
century, is due to the breaking up of the old energies that
fashioned the body of the lower mental nature, and oc-
curred at a time when the higher energies were being
projected. It is a reflective aspect of the attempt of the
higher energies to spiritualize the body; though the spir-
itual body is not brought forth by anemic conditions.
Reflections are only signs on the outer plane of the prog-
ress of the Laws of the inner plane.
The red corpuscles contain the life of the animal nature
of man, the white corpuscles the life of the inner ener-
gies, comparable to the life of the Spirit. That the white
corpuscles appear as scavengers, and the red as agents of
vitality, are the very necessary reversed aspects of the
mortal nature of man to the Plan of the Spirit. Red is
one of the seven primal colors and is significant of the
will. Red is very agitating to the animals, but in relation
to animal-man is greatly conducive of harmony when
associated with the corpuscles. All colors have their sig-
nificance and apply to the body of man, though cast by
the mental energies by which the body is controlled. As
the body without the spirit is dead, so the bodily processes
without mental control make up the dead man that must
be born again in order to enter into life.
The seat of being born again is in the blood and is
directly related to the spleen. For this reason one who
is putting off the mind of the flesh and is putting on the
222 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Mind of the Spirit goes through a bodily transition, that
reduces the blood to the point of death of the self, at
which point the life of the Spirit springs up. This is ac-
companied with spiritual illumination, when it is actually
identified, by which the Truth is finally known, because
a state of being has been promoted in keeping with the
spiritual unfoldment; for the being of the Principles of
Truth establishes itself by which they can be known.
There are symbolical reflections of this process, because
every action of the inner Laws of Being projects its
shadow toward the race; but one functioning the symbol
is not in the reality;but is the means by which the delu-
sion is carried to a climax that it may be annihilated.
This is the way the kingdom of the world is brought to i:l
finish at the point that the Kingdom of Heaven is set up
in man, individually and universally.
These are mystical truths that associate themselves
more with the spleen and the mystical aspect of the blood
than with other parts of the body; though the redeemed
brain and the heart, the pivotal centers of Wisdom and
Love, respectively, are the primal parents of this physical
change. Bodily changes are so marked the last century
that a new healing system is not only demanded, but con-
ditions of living, governmentally, must change to sustain
the more highly progressed states .of consciousness. This
change can come only through the old governmental sys-
tem undergoing a change, comparable to the change un-
dergone by the progressing individual. This change, both
individual and universal, is directly controlled in Truth
and the authority of the Divine Laws and Will, that
identifies Truth among men and sets up its Throne of
Power from an Organism that becomes the controller of
the circulation of the energies of the Spirit of Life; as
well as the controller of the forc~s of death (racial living,
not in keeping with Truth).
Birth and death, with their polarized result, life, are
continually operative in the organism of man. When in
perfect balance, health is the result. However, mortals
are not in perfect balance, a conflict going on between
Spleen: Birth, Life, Death 223
the spirit and the flesh that develops the factor of con-
trariety, and which results in sufficient antagonism to
produce disease. Youth is the capacity to keep in bal-
ance, so that as old cells die new ones are born, without
any excess piling up in the system. When excess piles
up between the birth and death of cells, disease results,
and when the excess becomes excessive in its own ele-
ment, what is called age appears. Age is lack of the
organs to perform their functions properly, because im-
mersed in their own excretias so as to obstruct the ex-
pression of order and harmony. Youth is elimination
while age is congestion.
Life, as mortals know it, is the energy resulting through
birth and death being equalized in the organism. While
this life is death, in relation to the spiritual life to be
attained, yet to the animal nature of mortality it is the
animation of existence. This animation especially func-
tions by means of the bodily expressions, by which all
the organs are enabled to perform their functions with-
out obstructions. Obstructio1is promote disease and ex-
cessive disease brings the bodily functions to cessation.
Life gives way to death, on the outer plane, while death
gives way to birth on the inner plane. This vicious circle
of mortality is brought to an end through spiritual birth,
by which one enters into eternal life. Eternal life is con-
tinuity of progression without the necessity of birth or
death, though it is the transition of consciousness from
the third to the fourth dimensional plane of being. (The
Chapter, "Death: Birth: Life," contained in the Book,
"Science of Love with Key to Immortality," by the author,
deals with the mystical aspects of these factors).
The cessation of the bodily functions deprives the Spirit
of Life of an organism and it takes refuge in the Kosmos
of Being for future embodiment. Processes of material
existence, called life, finally bring the conscious embodi-
ment of forces to a conscious recognition of the Spirit
of Life, when the establishment of genuine life and being
is in order. Thus the material existence serves toward
bringing consciousness into the capacity to become con-
224 Spiritual Significance of the Body
scious of the Principles of Being (God), by which they
may be embodied as the reality of life and being. This
embodiment is through spiritual birth, and the death of
the old man or forces of consciousness. Thus it can be
seen that the processes of birth and life and death are
intermingled, the spiritual springing up where the ma-
terial consciously dies.
The Spleen has been associated with the thyroid gland.
Mystically, the thyroid gland, situated in the throat, is
connected with the Word of Creation, while the counter-
part of the Word, by which is life, is located in the spleen.
It is the life of the flesh that is promoted by the spleen,
although it also becomes the burial ground for the ele-
ments of death that die out when the Life of the Spirit is
introduced. Since the spleen relates to the blood and the
blood is the life of the flesh, it has connection with the
thyroid gland through the operation of the Word of God
in the consciousness. This is a spiritual connection rather
than a physical one, though when consciousness is ad-
justed, so that the within and the without are one, there
is a constant reaction between the spiritual and the
physical.
The Spleen acts as a mediator between the inner or-
ganism of forces, as promoted by the glandular system,
and the outer organism as promoted by the functions of
the organs. Birth has its identification in the blood, in the
seminal waters gathered from the blood, in which is the
life of the flesh. Death, the opposite pole of birth, has
its physical identification in the blood, and through the
corpuscles, relates to the spleen. Since it is the Spirit of
Christ that is the mediator between the inner Kingdom
and the outer domain of living, we have the objectifica-
tion of this function in the spleen of the organism.
It is the Spleen that makes an attack upon all encroach-
ing poisons and toxins, hence, its function is like an
avenging angel, and that which is protective as well. The
poisons and toxins of the system are comparable to the
Satanic elements that arise from the forces of chaos.
Chaos is that which is opposite to cosmos or intelligence.
Spleen: Birth, Life, Death 225
It is Christ that takes dominion over the Satanic elements
of consciousness. The function of the spleen, in the con-
trol of the poisons and toxins of the system, is comparable
to Christ, the saving Principle that would reveal the Prin-
ciple of Life by offsetting the necessity and forces of
death.
The Spleen is situated on the left side of the body, this
indicating its relation to the negative pole of the organ-
ism. The right is always positive, the left is negative.
The negative pertains to the interior forces, the unformed,
as well as to those forces that have been active and have
come to cessation. The spleen bears a polarizing relation
to the liver, situated on the right side, the former identi-
fying as a center of death to the natural plane, and the
latter as a center of life. Yet, the spiritual system of being
that is reverse to the natural would reverse this position,
making the spleen the seat of the higher life, and the
liver the seat of the lower life which is a form of death.
The liver relates to the outer system of living, the body,
by means of the bile, its digestive factor, and to the soul
or interior system by means of the portal circulation,
connecting with the heart. The spleen relates to the outer
system of living by means of the relation it bears to the
blood, and to the interior system by means of its mys-
tical functioning in relation to the energies of birth, life,
and death. People said to have plenty of "spleen" are
emotional to the point of being erratic, the spleen con-
necting with the emotional center of consciousness, the
soul, by its connecting with the blood and the seed-ener-
gies fashioned in the love of the flesh.
The life of the animal nature is temporary. Reality of
life is from the Spirit of Life or Christ. The ego connects
with the qualities of the Spirit through transcending the
outer forces of life, and centering toward the inner plane
of Being. The glandular system is the connecting link
between the inner plane of being and the outer, with the
spleen as the outlet of the inner plane, and the mystical
head of the outer plane of living, as it relates to the or-
ganism. The spleen types the graveyard of the dead, the
226 Spiritual Significance of the Body
mortal nature being dead until made alive in the Life
of the Spirit. A changed spirit of man, by which he or
she puts on the Life of the Spirit, or Christ, reflects itself
in the physical organism by means of the replenishing
function of the spleen. This replenishing function is a
balance to birth and death, and the means by which life
is present.
MEDITATION
Birth and death are equal in the Law, establishing
youth and life.
I rejoice in omnipresent life and the death of the self
man.
I am freed from birth and death through the Law of
Divine Love that gives man spiritual birth.
BOWELS: FREEDOM, MERCY, ELIMINATION
THE Bowels consist of the large and the small in-
testines. Common usage sanctions the term bowels,
or intestines, rather than bowel or intestine, be-
cause of the two distinct divisions found in man. These
divisions are often not very marked in animals. These
two divisions represent two poles of forces that are dual
in function. The small intestine, making up four-fifths of
the bowels, has as its function the absorption of nourish-
ment and aids in digestion. The large intestine is a car-
rier of waste. Digestion is finished in the small intestine
and absorption of nourishment is promoted, while the
refuse of the system is functioned by the large intestine,
this identifying two functions of distinctly opposite na-
ture.
The Bowels, more than any other organ, indicate the
materialism of living, as well as the Plan of Life, though
symbolizing the great and the small functions in the system
of life. They consist of six distinct divisions, three in the
small, and three in the large intestine, comparable to the
six days of Creation, or movements of Divine Qualities
by which man is fashioned and made. The whole ali-
mentary tract is the seat of the animal man, though the
animal man being reversed to the spiritual enables one
to understand the spiritual, when understanding of the
animality of nature and its place in progression is estab-·
lished.
The small intestine, twenty feet long, is divided into the
duodenum, jejunum, and the ileum. The large intestine
is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The ap-
pendix, a pouch-like protuberance, is attached to the
caecum. The function of the appendix is to equalize the
distribution of gases that attend the fermentation of the
colon, for the large intestine is unclean and subject to
putrefaction. Because people can live with certain organs
cut out does not imply that they are useless; nor because
the function of organs is not known by mortals is no rea-
[227]
228 Spiritual Significance of the Body
son why certain organs should be considered useless.
What is carried along in the body today is usable in the
economy of Nature. When any energy of intelligence is
made null and void through the Divine Mind or Truth,
then only is the organ to which it relates brought to cessa-
tion of function.
The immortal man, when fully formed, will be a dif-
ferent nature from the mortal, and many aspects of
the body that become especially unruly in mortality are
brought to cessation. The appendix is one of these aspects
of the body, but we can be assured that it had its place
in mortality else it would not have been. That the ap-
pendix is in the adult would indicate that it has a service
to perform for the matured organism, unlike the aden-
oids that aid in the nursing ability of the child but which
atrophy when no longer needed. It has been discovered
that the appendix is in a state of atrophy in certain organ-
isms, and this has led to the belief that it was without
function in the adult. The existence of the appendix
teaches an important truth, viz., that the animal nature
of man, centered to the entire alimentary tract, has been
appended to man's nature as God created him to be,
because of the necessity of progressing consciousness in
lack of knowledge and love of Being; for the animal man
is progressed before humanity of character is put on, by
which the Divine Qualities can function to reveal the
Real Man. (See Chapter, "Appendix and Operations").
The Bowels are the seat of the animal life of the natural
man, in relation to the body, though the generative organs
are the seat of the soul life of the animal-natural man.
This is the animal soul, and not the soul that is identified
when humanity of consciousness has transcended the
animality of nature. The reality of soul is centered to
the chest region, and relates to the heart and the thymus
gland. Because the bowels are the seat of the animal life
of the natural man, any disorder to the bowels is reflected
to the entire organism. Hence, the tendency to trace all
bodily discords to the colon, the center of impurity and
putrefaction.
Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimination 229
The common disorder associated with the bowels,
especially the large intestine, is constipation. Constipa-
tion is a name applied to lack of proper elimination of
the wastes of the body. Economists use the word consti-
pation to indicate the congested condition of business and
finance, when their circulation is cut off. Constipation is
opposite to freedom, and indicates a condition of bondage
and limitation in the normal functioning of any expres-
sion. People fail to eliminate the used forces of conscious-
ness, cluttering the mind with stagnant forces, this being
the tendency back of constipation; though a physical stag-
nant condition also aids in its promotion.
Freedom, in relation to the bowels, m eans proper func-
tion and elimination. It is an interesting, phenomenal
fact, that the liberation of mind so as to free it from cer-
tain limited thought, especially relating to the earthly life
of man, will, when realization is intensely felt, cause elim-
ination of the bowels. Liberty of mind is pivoted to the
realization of spiritual truth, therefore it is only when
Truth is realized in opposition to long-treasured beliefs
about the earthly nature of man, that this phenomenal
elimination will occur. It is as though the waste is thrown
off in the presence of the substance of Being and Truth.
If one embraces the spirit of freedom, which is the
Spirit of Truth, one may, under certain conditions, pro-
mote elimination; but only because a spiritual law is
operative, and the influences extend to the seat of the
natural man, or the bowels. Constipation, arising from
inharmonious combinations of food, or lack of exercise,
or other things common to the natural-material plane of
existence, is subject to natural law, and people are jus-
tified in keeping themselves internally clean through the
use of enemas or drugless laxatives. Egos violate no Law
of God by rendering unto Caesar the things that are
Caesar's in relation to the bodily organism, and are always
watchful to subject the forces of the body to the intelli-
gence of man, through spiritual or natural means.
The Bowels are imposed upon by the greedy nature of
man. Appetite and passion must be mastered if the
230 Spiritual Significance of the Body
animal man is to enjoy a degree of harmonious living.
It is not that the animal man can be fully established in
harmony, for harmony is for the spiritual man; but he
can promote the capability of enjoying harmony by mas-
tering the inharmonies of the material plane of living.
The attention given to diet, reducing, food combinations,
vitamins, calories, and all that makes the body more
beautiful and harmonious, prepares the consciousness for
the Body Beautiful that is to be born through the authority
of the Divine Will; that even now is bringing to noth-
ingness the Old Order of living and building up the char-
acter and qualities of the New Order.
The waste of the bowels is not alone from the food taken
into the organism, but from the excretia of the organs
themselves. Mortal man struggles against this waste, the
bowel action becoming less certain as he advances. This
is to say that the complexity of living, which is not alone
traceable to food, constipates him because he is not in con-
trol of the self-powers. However, the more controlled
one becomes the higher one advances mentally and spir-
itually, this automatically slowing up the movements of
the bowels; for they represent the forces of the lower
plane which are cut off when the forces of the higher
plane of progression are liberated.
Exercising the muscles of the abdomen aids in toning up
the bowels and increasing their harmony. Other natural
aids operate to promote the natural harmony, but genuine
liberty will not be attained until man can transcend the
"coat of skins" which mortality types, and put on his gar-
ment of righteous being. The effort to promote harmony
is not for the mortal man but for the promotion of the
Principle of Harmony, which is a forerunner of the iden-
tification of Heaven in the earth. It is to say, that until
one is conscious of harmony, which the mortal can gain
only through mastering the inharmonies of mortality,
the genuine Harmony of Being cannot be revealed. Con-
sciousness identified in harmony is the new creature, new
in spirit and body.
There are Centers of Being in the consciousness of man.
Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimination 231
Consciousness is identified by means of organism, there-
fore certain parts of the organism centralize to these Cen-
ters, and are affected by the realizations of Truth that
are made, because the Centers are controlled in the Divine
Laws. Thaddeus, the disciple, has its seat in the lower
part of the bowels, and is significant of elimination and
renunciation. The renunciation of ideas that obstruct
the free expression of Truth especially promotes free elim-
ination of the bowels. The development of the capacity
of righteous elimination on all planes of consciousness,
spirit, soul, mind, and body, stimulates the eliminary func-
tion of the bowels.
There is a malady called diarrhea, which is excessive
elimination. This excessive elimination is induced by
physical causes within the alimentary tract, or through
wrong diet, and has nothing in common with the elimina-
tion induced by transcending the "waste and void" of
materialism with the realizations of Truth. Conditions
of the bowels, induced by forces common to the mind of
the flesh, should be given attention in the laws of Caesar.
The spiritual laws of healing apply to those conditions
in the organism that arise because the consciousness relat-
ing to the body directly connects with the inner Centers
of Being, and their emanating qualities.
Mercy is especially associated with the bowels. Being
the seat of the animal life that is promoted by the animal
soul, or consciousness progressing in the senses and their
experiences, the bowels especially relate to emotional
forces. Mercy, kindness, consideration, reflect their forces
to the bowels and promote their well-being; while hatred,
unkindness, lack of consideration, and other malevolent
forces bring the bowels to inharmony and bondage.
Stinginess, not only tightens the muscles of the body, but
it can induce extreme constipation when accompanied
with cruelty and greed. All the forces of mind and soul
have their functional point in the body, making for har-
mony or inharmony of the organs to which their forces
relate.
The Bowels are centered to appropriation and elimina-
232 Spiritual Significance of the Body
tion. Especially, the small intestine centers to appropria-
tion, while the large to the function of elimination. This
signifies the uses and disuses, common to the system of
material living. The small intestine is cooperated with
by the pancreas and the liver, these putting the finishing
touches to the digestive process and promoting the absorp-
tion of the nourishment that results. It is because the
small intestine distributes to the entire system, at its low-
est point of progression, the nourishment provided in the
digestive process, that we have a figure in the bowels of
the system of labor, as it appears on the mechanical plane
of living. This is accompanied with the system of waste
that is one with concentrated capital, as it characterizes
material existence where moneys are appropriated and
piled-up for future uses. There is another system of labor
in the organism that relates to the generative organs,
though this signifies the progression of soul as well as
that of body.
Appropriation and elimination are constructive when
one invites his own under laws of Life, and rejects
that which is no longer needed as means of growth. When
greed and avarice characterize the consciousness, and one
appropriates to oneself that which rightfully belongs to
another, disorders set in and constipation and accum-
ulated waste result. Disorder of labor is disorder of
capital, even as disorder of appropriation of food makes
for disorder as to the distribution of the wastes accruing.
Consciousness is so intermingled in the race that on the
mortal plane one is not his or her Real Self, therefore
cannot invite one's own except in the necessity of labor
or work; and even this is obstructed by greed and other
forces that oppose the freedom of man.
It is only when consciousness knows itself as a self, and
can subject all the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body
to the I, and in turn subject the I to the higher will and
mind, that one can invite his or her own, free from all
sense of material appropriation. The law of spiritual at-
traction supersedes the law of material getting that dis-
regards the good of others: though the unfoldment of the
Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimination 233
humanity of character, that supersedes the animality,
promotes an unselfish spirit that makes for the capacity
to invite one's own in spiritual laws. The system of liv-
ing is as perfectly identified as the symbol of the bodily
organism, wherein every organ has its own function to
perform, as well as maintain a coordination with all the
other organs, by which harmony is promoted. This is
comparable to the human system that supersedes the sys-
tem of animality, and which will characterize righteous
economics and government. Then man will not live
for the body but for the spirit, but the body will share
in every advancement, without agitation and confusion
being necessary to promote growth.
It is quite fitting that the body should have a center of
waste, for with use there is always disuse. This center
of waste, pivoted to the colon, is figurative of hell, though
it is not that which goes into the belly that makes man im-
pure and unclean, but that which goes forth from the
mind and comes out from the heart. Waste is one with
perdition, for Perdition means to waste. The conscious-
ness of man is bound to hell so long as he is bound to mor-
tality; and he is also bound to the necessity of eating to
live and to the wastes that issue from this necessity in
mortality.
Spiritual man, who will have embodiment, will not live
by the belly nor be bound by the animal habits that infest
the nature of the animal-man. The great movement of
mental and spiritual advancement, the last century, is to
supersede the necessity of movements, common to mor-
tality, on all planes of expression. Spiritual man will not
be dependent upon bulk and peristalic action to promote
harmony and well-being; nor will he eat the diversity of
elements now partaken of in foods, for everything will
be centralized and concentrated, in opposition to diversi-
fication and adulteration. Purity and harmony will char-
acterize both spirit and body.
The rectum connects with the entire nervous system
and any rectal condition can disturb the whole nervous
system. Hemorrhoids, the most common ailment of this
234 Spiritual Significance of the Body
part of the bowels, relate to the liver and the improper
functioning of the hepatic vein. They are piles of con-
gested blood and matter, forming obstructions to proper
elimination, as well as producing greater decomposition
and putrefadion because of unexpelled waste matter.
Waste must be destroyed in some manner to assure the
health of the organism, diseases arising that burn it up,
if not otherwise destroyed.
There is a natural man and there is a spiritual man.
The natural man has, through material thought, formed
the energies and elements that make up the material body.
These have been formed in the mind of the flesh, which
is not subject to the Law of God, and which cannot be sub-
jected for it must be destroyed in the presence of the Mind
of the Spirit. "Flesh and blood cannot inherit the king-
dom of God," and it is made up of those elements and
forces that fashion the material organism of the animal
nature of man. It is absurd to believe that God, in its
healing laws, is going to heal the animal nature of man,
when the animal nature must be broken up and dissolved
in order to reveal man in the spiritual nature. The forces
of the flesh must be overcome by one putting on the Mind
of the Spirit, this reducing them to nothingness in the
presence of Truth realized.
Certain inharmonies arising from the combination of
material elements in the nature of the anilnal man, to
which the Laws of God do not directly apply, must be met
on the plane of the material or Caesar to which they re-
late; though this is not to imply that the influences of the
spiritual cannot subject the influences of the material
and reduce them to nothingness. It is to say, that natural
conditions call for treatment in natural laws, and the
Spirit is not interested in healing material conditions, but
its function is rather to reduce the material forces to a
state of negation and cessation. We have evidence of
this power the last century in the progressed healing
methods, outer aids being correspondingly advanced on
the natural plane with the advancement of the spiritual
consciousness within. People whose advancement has
Bowels: Freedom, Mercy, Elimination 235
aided in promoting the higher healing agencies of the
natural plane should not fail to take advantage of their
uses, should necessity demand; for the One Power is the
controller of the forces of light and darkness, though
utilizing a direct and an indirect control, respectively.
The spiritual nature in man makes it possible for con-
sciousness to contact the healing Laws of God, but where
this nature is not developed there is no response to spir-
itual healing treatments. Especially, disorders relating
to the alimentary tract, the very seat of the animal nature,
do not yield to spiritual healing, though the influences of
the Spirit may reduce offending material forces to nega-
tion if spiritual advancement permits. The higher
thoughts and energies progressed in the consciousness
have modifying influences upon the inharmonies arising
on the outer plane, but the material nature is outside
the Kingdom of God, and always will be; therefore its
forces must pass away in the presence of the formation
of the spiritual state of being. There would be no sense
in material forces being healed if they are to be destroyed.
Many egos, advancing in understanding, but not identified
in the Truth, by which both the spiritual and the n atural
are understood, belittle the Principles of spiritual heal-
ing by their ignorant thought and conduct; bringing the
system of spiritual healing into disrepute and repudiation.
Great waste exists in the system of material living. This
is symbolized in the organism of the body in relation to
the large intestine. Waste is the refuse incidental to use,
though many of these elements m ake good fertilization.
The waste region of the bodily organism symbolizes the
soil, in which the elements of impurity decay and dissolve.
A certain amount of fertilization from the feces is pos-
sible, but putrefaction, through lack of proper elimination,
is attended with impurities that can poison the blood
stream and identify diseases. Colonies, the cleansing of
the large bowel with water, have a purifying effect upon
the eliminary organs, this being one of the most effective
modes of healing and rejuvenation. Elimination, when
it is conformed to spiritual laws, will result in the super-
236 Spiritual Significance of the Body
seding of the animal nature of man with the human, by
which the spiritual reality of being can work out. There-
fore, perfect elimination is the elimination of the mortal
state altogether, ultimately resulting in the unnecessity
of the alimentary tract, though this is a characteristic of
the fourth dimensional, rather than of the third dimen-
sional ego.
MEDITATION
I am free in Truth, established in perfect coordination
of spirit and body.
All the organs of the body are established in perfect
form and harmony.
No mortal sense can obstruct the outworking of free-
dom and Truth.
APPENDIX AND OPERATIONS
x.PENDIX is that added or attached. This gives a
clue to the symbology of the vermiform appendix,
attached to the caecum of the bowels. Vermiform
means wormlike, while appendix is that which is added.
It is interesting to note that that which was added to the
mortality of nature was the serpent sense, a wormlike
expression of man. That which was added, and sym-
bolized as the vermiform appendix, became the beginning
of operations, of a mass mind nature, by which authority
over the body was set up. This authority is in controlling
the serpent sense, but is symbolized in the control of the
vermiform appendix, as to operations.
Operations had been performed prior to the cutting out
of the appendix, but it was this operation that awakened
the race mind to the use and misuse of operations; as well
as to the possibility of the control of the organs of the
body. While the control of the body is from the spiritual
laws, this ultimating in the manifestation of the Fourth
Dimensional ego when mortal forces are subjected, this
control is symbolized on the plane of mortality by surgical
operations. Symbols are not the realities but are repre-
sentations on the plane of mortality of possibilities to be
attained on the plane of spiritual unfoldment. Finally,
the entire mortal body is cut dut, but this operation is
performed by the Divine Will that fashions the new
creature.
Appendicitis, the inflammation of the vermiform ap-
pendix, is not uncommon, and it has especially attended
the evolution of the race in relation to food. Culinary
arts advance with the ideas of be~uty and passion, all
receiving attention at a cycle's close. Beauty is the hu-
manized fruit centered to womanhood, while passion is
the animality of mortal progression, centered to manhood.
Beauty pervaded the realm of foods, beauty of food being
almost as essential to progressed mortality as quality of
nourishment. Many physical inharmonies relating direct-
[237]
238 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ly to the natural man can be traced to improper food
combinations.
Passion and its adulteration especially attend a cycle's
close. It associates itself outwardly with eating and
drinking, both relating to the body for good or ill; though
inwardly, it relates to sexual debaucheries and sensual
orgies. These orgies pervert the natural uses of the body,
as to the function of the animal nature, adulterating ap-
petite. Sexual food was the primal appetite, with foods
for the belly increasing in complexity, as well as beauty,
according to the advancement of the animal soul.
The perversions of appetite affect the body, making it
a reservoir of filth and inharmonies. People, governed
by appetite and not by intelligence, eat all kinds of un-
godly combinations, as well as add to eating the sport of
drinking, committing all kinds of offenses against the
body, this forcing the necessity of surgery and its atten-
dant operations. However, another aspect of mortal pro-
gression relates to operations, this pertaining to the sub-
jection of the forces of the body to the intelligence of man.
While this subjection is expected to be mentally identi-
fied, its mental possibility is first symbolized on the phys-
ical plane, subjecting the offending members of the body
to surgical operations.
Egos, mentally progressing, cut off the offending mem-
bers by cutting off the combinations of mental energies
that make for inharmony; but on the racial plane of mate-
rialism, where all inner progression is symbolically re-
flected, surgery is promoted to cut off the members of the
body itself. Many offenses are committed against the
body by surgeons, though corrective surgery has served
many people well, permitting them to function the con-
sciousness in a body, by which they more perfectly pro-
gress the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and will. The body
is a servant of man, but it is also destined to be one with
the spirit, and is not to be defiled. Defilement of the
mortal body prevents purity of consciousness, therefore
prevents the Body Beautiful, the spiritual body, from
being formed.
Appendix and Operations 239
Surgery has its whorl of forces in the race mind, like
all things that are liberated on the plane of mortality.
Behind this wave of material force, by which the intel-
ligence of mortality assumes control over the body, even
to performing marvelous operations, is the movement of
Divine Intelligence that is cutting off the spirit of the
animal man, that It may fashion a new spirit and a new
body. Righteousness will dwell in the new creature, re-
born in spirit and in body. The command of the Word,
through its first identification among men, "If thy right
hand causeth thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from
thee," was literalized on the plane of the race mind, where
the spiritual teaching has been lost in the letter of mortal
progression. The spiritual result of this command is a
mental cutting off of offending members, by which spirit,
soul, mind, and body may be aligned to the Divine Love,
and harmony may express.
There is always a wave of waste with every wave of
advancement. There are always those who are sacrificed
to advancing intelligence. Surgery took its toll, but the
intelligence of the mass mind is such today that it is able
to repulse those too eager to operate. Nature and her
'laws are better understood and appreciated, and the best
surgeons are those who operate as a last resort. Surgery
is the means by which the different parts of the body
are brought under the control of the intelligence and will
of man; as well as the means of superseding fear with
courage in dealing with the body.
Man was given dominion over every creeping thing,
and every thing that liveth upon the face of the earth;
that is, developed on the plane of materiality in sense
conscious progression. While this dominion is exercised,
when all the forces of consciousness, viz., spirit, soul,
mind, and body, are subjected to the I, by which it is
surrendered to the Divine Will, it reflects itself on the
outer plane of living and results in domination on the
plane of the physical. Materia medica and surgery exer-
cise a certain domination over the race, though fear is
fast being superseded by intelligence.
240 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Surgery reflects the power of man to cut off the offend-
ing members developed on the bodily plane, though this
cutting off is scientifically done when egos cut off mor-
tality and put on immortality. Domination of the living
creatures, "that creepeth upon the earth," is accomplished
by subjecting the desires, hopes, thoughts, ideas, feelings,
and acts to the I, this being followed by the subjection of
the I to the Divine Will that there may be revealed on the
earth, or plane of form, what is idealized in Heaven or
Principles to be brought forth. When man is revealed
in his real nature he is conformed to the Laws of Being,
and is freed from the necessity of suffering.
Operations are under the "law of necessity" which is
the "law of sin." The law of sin is the law of evolution.
It is a case of suffering many things that the whole law
may be accomplished to bring man to reality of being.
The righteous control of the body to intelligence and will
is the capacity to express in word and in act, the ideas and
principles of Truth realized. This is done by those giving
themselves to the outworking of the realities of Being, but
those who reflect this outworking do the outer work and
reverse the inner intention. This leads to destruction on
the outer plane of living, the materialists finally tearing
down what they have built up.
It is not to say that people advancing the ideas and
principles, governing the bringing forth of the reality of
being, are free from operations. These may have to drink
the cup of having their bodies disrupted in living ways,
that the advancing qualities they are promoting may be
proven to dominate the material conditions. However, it
is only when one has attained to Christ Consciousness
that disruption of living organism is attended with uni-
versal power, therefore the necessity of such a conscious-
ness being subjected to the material factors of the world.
This is a mystical outworking and fully discussed by the
author, in the Book, "Science of Love With Key to Im-
mortality."
There are parts of the body that are not so material in
their function, though held in bondage to the material
Appendix and Operations 241
plane. These are not so subjected to surgery for they are
not so involved in the symbolical world. Yet, there are
cases where the heart has been operated upon, the bowels
taken out and washed, the lungs collapsed, and other
peculiar operations enacted, that have prolonged life;
though the people, relating may not have attained to
proper harmony. However, it is mastery of the outer
plane of living that is required, before the Principles of
the inner plane can be projected to govern the expression
of man. Mastery is best realized in the midst of outer
calamities, whether individual or racial.
The whole animal nature of man was attached to, or
appended to the fashioning of Man, as conceived in Divine
Mind. That the appendix, representing that which is ap-
pended or attached to the bowels, the seat of the animal
man, should be the means by which people are more
generally educated as to the control of surgery over the
body, indicates the cutting off of the consciousness of that
which was appended. The animality of nature can never
be cut off or out by cutting out the appendix. It is cut off
only by dying to its forces, by mastering and overcoming
the mind and love of the flesh, by which the mortal body
and the animal soul have their existence, independent of
the Will of Being.
Every ego is called upon to perform his own operation
by which the animal nature is cut off. and the nature of
the real man is put on. This is scientific surgery, governed
in exact laws. Anyone having the zeal of mastery can
give attention and learn to perform this most delicate of
operations. One who has performed this operation
emerges from the wormlike .expression of Man into the
triumph of Being, putting on the new creature, righteous
in spirit and body, soul and mind. Consciousness passes
from the mortal to .the immortal by subjecting the forces
of the animal nature, cutting off the limited creature as
the qualities of the unlimited are put on.
Certain aspects of surgery belong to the criminal plane.
On this plane, the head is cut off, the body is shocked to
death by electricity, or smothered to death by lethal gas.
242 Spiritual Significance of the Body
All these disruptions of bodily energies, destructively pro-
moted, project destructive forces into the entire race,
adding disease and inharmony to the people. Cruelty is
without excuse these last nineteen centuries, though, be-
cause it still persists, it necessitates a judgment of God
apparently as cruel as is the cruelty of men. God meas-
ures to men according as they measure. God gives to men
the equivalent of that which they give toward their fel-
lowmen. Because men give cruelty and receive in exact
law a like measuring, they suppose that God is cruel;
when all they need to do is to give expression to wisdom
and love to measure the Infinite Wisdom and Love of
God to themselves.
Fortunately, the brain is intact. Surgery cannot cut it
out, though it practices a bit in removing parts. A few
organs of the body remain stationed, while the system
circulating about them is subject to change and correc-
tion. None of the processes by which consciousness pro-
gresses is to be condemned, though all falling short of the
Divine requirements come under retribution in the final
proving up of the mortal course. Ignorance of these re-
quirements does not excuse anyone from judgment.
Operations are suffered to be so, rather than an unruly
member should cast the whole body into chaos and dis-
solution. This is compatible with the mental progression,
on the low plane of evolution, when egos are commanded
to turn from the evils and put them out of mind, rather
than become involved in forces while lacking the power
to control them. The material body is subject to false
growths even as is the material nature of man. These often
need to be cut out, and operations furnish the medium
of relief that is better, as a means of growth, than prema-
turely going into dissolution and death.
People should always be afforded choice in relation to
operations. Surgeons must not feel that they can presume
too much, nor exercise too much domination over those
weakened by illness. Every cut-off member of the phys-
ical organism has its center of intelligence in the brain,
this permitting some compensation for the loss of the
Appendix and Operations 243
members of the body. Nature must be given an oppor-
tunity to heal maimed and offending members, and the
Higher Laws permitted to render their services in states
of consciousness in which they can function. The law
of Caesar applies to mortality as long as it lasts, and the
spiritually advancing violate no Divine Laws by conform-
ing to that which relates to Caesar. They must also be per-
mitted to render unto God that which is God's.
Amputation of limbs, because they are crushed, is to be
discouraged, if persons concerned prefer to take their
chance of reconstruction. Reconstruction is provided for
in the economy of life, and its opportunity must not be
crowded out by over zealous surgeons; to whom the body
often becomes more mechanical than containing the
means of mental and spiritual advancement to its inhabit-
ing spirit. Bodily control is as important as mental con-
trol. This control extends to the plane of surgery, but is
vested in the particular ego who must consider the opera-
tion.
Vivisection, the operation upon living animal organ-
ism, for physiological or pathological observation and in-
vestigation, is a secondary school of training employed
by surgery. It has been assailed by well-meaning people,
though the lower animals were subjected to the use of
man from the beginning of mortality. Vivisection is an-
other aspect of the "law of necessity," and permitted as a
service to man. Like many other things of mortality, it
is not commended, neither is it to be condemned if it
renders a service to man. It is one of those things that
must be suffered for the purpose it serves. People who
crucify Christ every day of their lives, holding the forces
of spirit, soul, mind, and body in bondage to materiality
and thus preventing the revelation of the fruit of God and
Christ, may be staunch opposers of vivisection! Until
one learns the Principles of Life and conforms to them,
there is much "straining at gnats and swallowing camels."
Materia medica and surgery must not be allowed to
usurp the free will of the ego. The lower forms of heal-
ing must not be allowed to obstruct the higher forms that
244 Spiritual Significance of the Body
continually reveal themselves, in keeping with the un-
folding intelligence and love of man. God is running the
universe, and not the materially bound and dominant egos
who have attained places of power and prestige. God
works by means of man, but only when man is sufficient-
ly spiritualized, through dying to the self-love and desires,
can he know what the Plan of God is1 and the purpose
of all these things. All things serve toward progressing
man, but the eighth grade student would not be expected
to take up the first grade again; nor would students be ex-
pected to be held to low grades indefinitely.
Life, which is the real School, does not hold people to
low planes but ever forces them to the goal, set from the
foundation of the world; that of attaining righteous spirit
and body, by which sin, sickness, sorrow, and death can
pass away, and be known no more. Man gains dominion
over the inner forces of the consciousness by taking
dominion over the outer forces, all things working together
to bring those, who can attain, to the goal. All things in
mortality are suffered to be used to progress man, but
not any of them belong to the real nature, when it is at-
tained.
MEDITATION
The wholeness of the body is preserved in Laws of
Divine Love.
I rejoice in the body as the Temple of God, whole and
harmonious.
Man cuts off the offending members of the bodily con-
sciousness, controlling all forces to Love and Truth.
KIDNEYS: EQUALITY, RECIPROCITY, AND
CONFIDENCE
THE Kidneys are organs of excretion, relating to the
water element. Water is the element of negation,
therefore forces of consciousness relating to nega-
tion particularly associate with the kidneys. The bladder
is the organ through which the excretion of the kidneys is
eliminated. The bladder is the negative pole of which
the kidneys are the positive, within their own domain of
function. The negative is always feminine, the positive
is the masculine, the organs of the body being made up of
these dual elements.
The Kidneys, two in number, are situated in the small of
the back, in the lumbar region. Two pertains to duality,
though when the duality is coordinated two represents
the twain. The twain especially pertains to the spirit and
form, while the duality is the twoness that arises on the
plane of the body. · Back of the two is the one spirit that
exercises a coordinate control over the dualistic factors
of the body, though it is possible for this coordination to
be overthrown and the body maimed, as to its functions.
The cutting out of one kidney throws the labor of elimina·
tion, relating to these organs, upon the other kidney, this
needing to be compensated throughout the organism.
The Kidneys are tubular glands, especially prepared to
extract impurities from the system, while the bladder is
the passage of elimination of these poisons. The kidneys
relate to the blood, as the blood and water of the system
intermingle, though they represent opposite factors of
consciousness. The pure watery element of the system is
the seminal fluid, but this is the purity of which the excre-
tory water of the kidneys is the impurity. The blood is
the "water of life," the element by which the spirit em-
bodies itself and produces form.
Water, while a negative element of the body, is the ob-
jectification of the soul forces. Therefore, all negative
[245]
246 Spiritual Significance of the Body
soul forces have a direct action upon the kidneys. These
forces are fear, depression, timidity, wickedness, perver-
sions, and all others decidedly negative in character.
There is a positive negation and an inactive negation.
Negative forces, excessively developed, or forces· unde-
veloped, relate to the negative organs of the body. When
negative forces are promoted in the consciousness they
overthrow the balance of the organism, and discords of
the kidneys follow. These discords reflect themselves to
the bladder and its function is impaired.
Discouragement, especially, reacts to the kidneys, as
well as lack of confidence and courage. Many of the
organs of the body are encumbered by the energies and
forces accruing from unbalanced soul and mental quali-
ties. Unbalanced forces are not necessarily those of in-
sanity, though insanity is the acme of unbalanced condi-
tions; but pertain to lack of balance between the male
and the female poles of qualities. Balance of these poles
promotes harmony and super-intelligence. If people be-
come especially negative, induced by fear or discourage-
ment, sexual indulgences and perversions, this reacts to
the organs that relate to the negative pole of the organism,
and physical disorders arise. This is not to say that all
physical disorders arise from the planes of soul and mind,
for some may be induced from the outer plane of living
through accident, malformation, malnutrition, etc.
Reciprocity between the two poles of consciousness, viz.,
the male and the female, or the positive and the negative,
always promotes harmony. Harmony gives sense of con-
fidence and well-being, but if consciousness is not greatly
progressed, it may also give rise to material domination
and arrogance of self. The attending discords relating to
the evolution of the race, before the I becomes intelligent,
are incidental to lack of balance. The natural law so
operates that one pole of expression, excessively cul-
tivated, will swing to the opposite pole, forcing progres-
sion through tribulation. When intelligence is gained,
one may be more balanced in impression and expression,
and may shorten the tribulation of the flesh.
Kidneys: Equality, Reciprocity, and Confidence 247
Reciprocity, when intelligently understood and pro-
moted, makes for self-respect and well-being. Lack of
confidence comes through lack of knowledge, though the
failure to know the self and the laws governing is the
totality of ignorance. Man is born into the environment
of the mortal body to develop the innate intelligence, and
all the outer conditions attending his or her progression
force the development of reciprocity. The ego may con-
sciously promote balance, when intelligence permits, thus
entering into confident coordination with the Higher Laws
and their government; but, prior to this time, the ego is
at the mercy of uncontrolled thought and feeling, and the
physical inharmonies they promote.
The better sense of health that has attended the race the
last half-century is due to a growing intelligence, and the
capacity of people to balance the inner consciousness and
the outer plane of living. This reacts favorably to the
body, as well as liberates higher energies of thought and
feeling. The mental advancement became so marked,
when relating to the qualities of the Spirit that governs
man, that it promoted a new healing system. This was a
necessary step of advancement, identified through the gov-
erning Intelligence; though many materially minded
people still knock this movement of the Lord (Divine
Laws) as though the healing system should still center to
drugs and low forces. Drugs are the lowest expression of
healing, common to an advancing race, though super-
stitious healing methods preceded the use of drugs and
are still common among the unenlightened.
The revealing of other modes of healing that transcend
the drug system, in addition to the mental system of heal-
ing, is the natural unfoldment that springs up at circum-
ference, when a higher energy has entered the race from
center. The center is the Throne of the Spirit, and gives
rise to spiritual healing, the highest expression of heal-
ing, but possible of action only among the spiritually pro-
gressed. Man is the consciousness in which the Central
Throne of the Spirit is set up, therefore is the projector
of the healing currents of the Spirit. Mind is the connect-
248 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ing link with the Spirit, but mind must be attuned to the
Mind of the Spirit to permit the influx of spiritual har-
monies.
When Equality is established in the organism between
the dual forces, harmony will be present. However,
equality must be identified at its central point, that of
making the dual forces one at the point where they be-
came separated. This pertains to the male and the female
qualities of consciousness, whose union is the seat of har-
mony. This is to say that an ego attaining male-female
unity within his or her consciousness comes under the
government of the Divine Laws, and can be manifested
in the righteous state of body. However, this transition
from the sexual (divided) to the spiritual (united) state
of consciousness is attended with transformation of the
organism, so as to permit the righteous expression of both
spirit and body. The righteous expression of spirit and
body is Man, revealed as he was idealized to be from the
foundation of the world.
The many advancements associated with the unfolding
spirit and body of man, the last half century, are promot-
ing the consciousness of the real man by which the Divine
Laws can function, and reveal the righteous expression of
spirit and body. This is a balanced expression, the new
creature, though the new creature is brought forth from
the processes of spiritual birth, and not through the
processes of material birth. This is to say that the natural
progression of man reaches its height when mentality can
enter into control of the bodily forces; this giving rise to
a higher government of man, and the revelation of a
higher type. The higher healing systems have been neces-
sary to cope with this advancement, for man is always
entitled to outer aids in keeping with his state of progres-
sion.
Equality relates to two, the establishment of balance
by which is harmony. Two characterizes the organs of
the body, revealing the outworking Plan of God in the
organism of man. However, one must become conscious
of that Plan, and balance himself or herself to it, in order
Kidneys: Equality, Reciprocity, and Confidence 249
to enter into its harmony. Equality established between
the mind and the body implies the establishment of equal-
ity between the body and soul, as well as the mind and
the spirit; for the progression of one factor of conscious-
ness is the progression of the other factors. Finally, the
subjection of the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and body
to the inner governing Laws, is the attainment of equality
of God and man, by which the love of the neighbor can
be identified.
Equality, as it has been attained on the plane of in-
dividual consciousness, has been projected toward the
race, in cosmical law. It has identified itself on the plane
of government, giving both men and women the privilege
of voting, as well as placing capital and labor on a common
footing. That the levelling of capital and labor was at-
tended with depression indicates the entrance of the
Power of the One to bring all twos to a common stand-
ing. Equality is the great principle to be worked out, as
respecting the harmony of the race, and is especially
pivoted to the relations of men and women; though it has
its inner throne of action from the equalized male and
female poles of consciousness.
The Kidneys are a conspicuous pair, representing an-
other aspect of the duality present in the body of man.
The two are by nature coordinated, reflecting the har-
mony of God in the organism of man when all twos are
made one. It is interesting to note that the central con-
trolling organs that symbolize the authority of God over
man, identified as the Head and the Heart, are centered
to the One, though in their makeup they partake of the
nature of the two; as indicated by the cerebrum and the
cerebellum, and the right and the left ventricles of the
heart. The Head types the Wisdom, the Heart types the
Love, these representing the parents of the entire con-
sciousness, as well as controlling the entire organism on
the physical plane.
Fear, one of the enemies of the functions of the kidneys,
must be seen as an innate element in the nature of man.
It is emptiness, void, though continually inviting fullness.
250 Spiritual Significance of the Body
It is suggestive of protection to the consciousness, indicat-
ing a governing spirit of man that forces protection with-
out his conscious volition or understanding. Fear, in its
objective reaction, relates to the heart, though in its sub-
jective relation it centers to the kidneys and the bladder;
because these organs more directly suggest the influences
of the soul, or water principle, upon the body. The soul,
or water principle, however, bears a more direct relation
to the generative organs than it does to the kidneys and
bladder, though the generative organs are of the inner
plane of the physical rather than of the outer.
The offset of fear is understanding and love. Under-
standing is coupled with the will, and the impetus of the
will is love, therefore, "Perfect love casts out all fear."
Love is perfected through understanding. Fear is offset
when one becomes conscious of the protecting power of
the Spirit, and enters into the realization that conscious-
ness, objectified as Man, is the powers of God in modes
of expression; therefore is sustained and supported in
the Laws of God.
Confidence is the result of fear overcome. It is more
than a sense of well-being as to the self, for it is the
capacity to rely upon the sustaining power of the Spirit,
as omnipresent factors of aid on all planes of expression.
When confidence is properly predicated, it is the capacity
of man to be bold toward God, entering into that com-
munion by which the Spirit becomes a liveable presence
and power on all planes of living. Confidence has its in-
ception from faith which is an offset to fear. Lack of con-
fidence is especially depressing, and reacts to the kidneys;
though this is not to say that all ailments affecting the kid-
neys are traced to lack of confidence.
Kidney disorders are incidental to acidity and other in-
harmonies that beset the blood, and disorder the whole
system. Diabetes, one of the most specific inharmonies
associated with the kidneys, is as much related to the
spleen, the pancreas, and the liver, being an unbalanced
condition of the sugar content of the system. Sugar is the
sweetening element and symbolizes the qualities of love,
Kidneys: Equality, Reciprocity, and Confidence 251
for all forces of the consciousness can be related to wisdom
or to love. Albumin in the urine, or the presence of other
foreign matter, gives rise to Bright's disease and kidney
disorders, when the organs become unbalanced.
Drinking plenty of water has a purifying effect upon the
system, stimulating the function of the kidneys and the
bowels. Because both of these organs are eliminary in
their function, they bear a close relation to each other, at-
tempting to compensate the work of each other, if perfect
balance is not present. Too frequent urination may be
weakening and irritating, and may be traced to constipa-
tion. The renal circulation is one of water, and relates
to the various minerals of the system. Organic or saline
matter must be in balance to maintain health of the kid-
neys. Urine is slightly acid, when normal, while blood is
alkaline when its balance is maintained. The kidneys
act as a filter for the blood, hence purity and impurity of
forces react harmoniously or inharmoniously to the kid-
neys.
A pure state of mind is harmonizing to the entire sys-
tem, though one has not attained purity until impurity is
known and superseded by understanding. People have
had ages of progression in which to develop the dualities
of consciousness, but the last century the demand has been
set up that the two be equally understood, this permitting
the One that is not of the two to set up its authority in the
consciousness of man. This One promotes harmony on
the plane of the physical organism, with equality being
expressed between all dual poles; as well as being estab-
lished in relation to the functions of spirit, soul, mind,
and body.
MEDITATION
The positive and the negative forces are now established
in equality and harmony.
I am identified in the confidence and power of the Real
Self.
No sense of fear can control consciousness, for man is
controlled in the Laws of Divine Love.
GENERATIVE ORGANS: REPRODUCTION
AND CONSUMMATION
T
HE Generative Organs are those that distinguish
males and females. They relate to the sex of the
creature. Sex means to cut. To cut is to divide,
to sever, the sexes being the severed symbolical Male-
Female Pole of Life. The Male-Female Pole of the Crea-
tor, identified in consciousness as One, is Christ, the Divine
Man in Principle. The application of this Principle to
consciousness is the processes of spiritual birth, by which
Man is brought forth in the image and likeness of God.
The Man made by God is universal consciousness,
though this consists of individuals. Individuals are spir-
itualized states of consciousness in whom is the possibility
of male-female oneness. This Man group, brought forth at
the end of Time, is the Manchild that is born of Woman.
Woman is the mother of living men, the Principle of
Divine Love that is opened in spiritualized consciousness.
The members of the Manchild are called virgins, being
male-female in quality of consciousness; that is, united
in the male-female pole, and not divided.
The creatures that make up mankind, a kind of a man
in process of progression, are distinctly sexed, in that they
are either in the supremacy of the male qualities or in
the supremacy of the female qualities. The organisms,
when normal, are distinctly characterized by generative
organs, male or female in character. The hermaphrodite
that still appears among men, is a perverted expression on
the plane of the physical of the united male-female man.
. Man, united male-female in consciousness, is spiritual
man, and when revealed is in the body of white that takes
on distinct man or woman character on the visible plane;
but which on the invisible is non-sexed. The non-sexed is
that which is like unto the angels, being distinctly rnale-
female in character but without distinction as to sex. The
visibility of such a consciousness would partake of the
[252]
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 253
nature of man, either male or female in form, but having
both qualities in the consciousness of being. The invisible
status of spiritualized man is the body of Light, but which
in its unformed state is the Single Eye, the organism of
Truth.
Because sexual creatures have distinct sexual organs,
the race has concluded that this is the type of man that
God created and made. However, when Intelligence
asserts itself, it is always non-sexual, because impersonal,
principled, and universal in its spirit. God is Intelligence.
Genuine Intelligence always pertains to the knowledge
and wisdom of God, for it issues from the Mind of the
Spirit. This Mind is absolutely identified at the end of
mortality, and the mystery of God and of sex can be
known; though this mystery is known only through Truth
issuing from the Mind of the Spirit, or to those spiritually
enlightened. Sexual creatures interpret sex according to
their planes of advancement, their intelligence being of
no higher nature than the progression of their love. Being
animal in nature, and identified in mankind, as a kind
of a progressing consciousness of man, they cannot know
the Truth as to the real nature of man; nor can the natural
man, however highly evolved, receive the things of the
Spirit.
Mortal minds, that characterize sexual creatures, are
exceedingly wroth, when their limited knowledges, espec-
ially relating to sex, are superseded with the Truth that
Divine Intelligence makes known, because sex is mastered
and overcome. This wrathy repulsion toward Truth is
the mark of Cain, the spirit of the devil, the murderer
from the beginning. It is to destroy the works of the devil
that the Son of God is manifested. The works of the devil
are the forces of intelligence and love, developed in lack
of knowledge and love of God. Devil and develop come
from the same root, and characterize the mortally pro-
gressing.
People are materially born into the world only that
they may be spiritually born. The mastering and over-
coming of all forces that have issued from the sexual
254 Spiritual Significance of the Body
mind, progressed in lack of knowledge and love of God,
is an ultimate consummation. Overcoming is the means
by which one is spiritually born and opened to know the
mysteries of God and of Man. This is not to make repro-
duction a crime, but it is to supersede the tendencies of
the mortal man with the qualities of the immortal; and
to permit the action of Divine Laws (in which is Divine
Love) to beget man, created in the image and likeness of
God.
The Man, created in the image and likeness of God, is
made up of many members, all being members of each
other, having their issuance from the primal Christ-Seed;
sown into the world to produce the fruit of God and Christ.
This Christ-Seed is identified, first as Man and second as
Woman, conformed to the Divine Laws. These two· wit-
nesses of the Word become the parents of the Manchild,
the children of God to be brought forth through the will
of God, and not through the will of man, nor the desires
of the flesh, nor through the blood of sensual reproduction.
Reproduction is two-fold. It pertains to bringing forth
the natural man, through the operation of sexual laws,
and the bringing forth of the spiritual man through the
operation of spiritual laws. "As we have borne the image
of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heav-
enly." The Christ Seed was sown in corruption, but it is
raised in incorruption. It was sown in dishonor, but it
is raised in glory. "It is sown a natural body: it is raised
a spiritual body." "Howbeit that is not first which is spir-
itual, but that which is natural : then that which is
spiritual." People act as though the spiritual is never
to come forth, resenting and resisting its qualities and
principles, because they love the kind of man and the
evil in which he can unfold, without direct jurisdiction
of God. In other words, mortals love the way of mortality
because their hearts are evil, and they resent any revela-
tion of God among them; until they have cleansed the
consciousness from its enticements in the serpent or sex
sense, and have put on the Love of the Lord, or of the
Divine Laws; when they can give themselves to the Divine
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 255
Will that it may prove what is acceptable to God, and
reveal the righteous expression of being.
Ages of evolution have progressed a kind of a man and
it should be expected that the natural forces would be
superseded by the spiritual, and the real state of being
assert itself. This has occurred the last century, with the
Plan of God consummated on the individual plane of
unfoldment, so as to universalize itself to bring to spir-
itual birth those who partake of the Love of the Lord.
This is the operation of Divine Laws that has brought the
entire race to trial the last quarter of a century, and which
is now proving up the forces of light and darkness.
The Generative Organs pertain as much to the soul as
to the body. They function the water element that also
relates to the kidneys, both in the male and in the female,
indicating the relation of the pure element of water, the
seminal fluid, with the impure elements excreted by the
kidneys, and associated with the generative organs. The
water element signifies the feminine qualities, the un-
formed, though containing the qualities to be formed.
Such is the nature of the seminal water, though it centers
to the male on the mortal plane. The female centers the
emanation of qualities, introducing the qualities of the
higher Principles into the world through reproduction of
forms, as well as in orgasms of copulative expressions.
That the majority of women were without orgasms,
though drawn into the copulative function for reproduc-
tive purposes, until the last half-century, accounts for the
long subjection of the race to the lower forces of material-
ism. The refinement and advancement of the race the
last half-century, when finer forces from the inner planes
were introduced through the orgasms of women, reveal
more advanced spirits and bodies.
The orgasm of the male is the ejaculatory process by
which the seminal fluid or semen is expelled. This sig-
nifies an inner union of forces and the physical function,
though the nature of the seminal fluid is of no higher
quality than is the developed intelligence and love of the
male. Being centered to materialism, and given to be
256 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the lord of the plane of mortality in its mixtures of good
and evil, the males have developed seeds particularly ele-
mental in nature; though this materiality is modified by
the mental advancement of the race. The opening of the
mental qualities the last century marked the change in
seed-elements, and together with the orgasmic emanations
of women, are responsible for bodies of more refined
energies, which necessitate healing systems compatible
with this refinement. The transforming of the body by
the renewing of the mind not only established a wave of
advancement, but it brought into identity bodies of higher
energies that demand different modes of living and
healing.
The formative power of bodies is contained in the seed
of women, though added to this principle is the Creative
impetus that alone has the power to make even a kind
of a man in the wombs of women. One would not say
that the soil of the earth, or the sowing of the seed into
the soil, brings forth the nature of the seed grown, for
that is contained in the seed itself. It is the nature of
the seed that gives character to that formed from the
seed, but what gives character to the seeds of mortals?
The developed intelligence and love give character to
the seed, these characteristics determining the nature of
the flesh and the tendencies of the organism; though
because man is an entity of himself or herself, on the
plane of animal progression (becoming an ego on the
plane of the human), there is added to the nature of the
seed the qualities of the embodying I; this often giving
rise to parents producing children that are foreign to their
own characteristics of progression.
The seed of women is projected to the outer world, in
conjunction with the menstrual flow. The seed of women
is the purity of the law of reproduction and contains
within itself the Creative impetus to form man, without
which the seeds of males would be impotent. The impuri-
ties, thrown off in the menstrual flow, are a modifying
agent in the material world in relation to women func-
tioning the seeds of males in copulative expressions. Made
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 257
up of the developed intelligences and love, the seeds of
males in the material world are of a low character, when
soul and mental forces are not evolved, this impure ele-
ment being thrown off, as to energies, in the menstrual
flow of women. If this did not occur, the formation of a
kind of a man, from the wombs of women, would be
attended with great impurity and malformation; though
formation is also controlled by the Creative impetus resi-
dent in the seeds of women, and which gives possibility of
form within their organisms. It is because material
woinen have functioned the seeds of progressing material-
ism that mortals are children of the harlot, or bastards;
that is, not born under the Law of the Lord from the real
Mother Principle or Divine Love, but brought forth under
the law of sin and death.
It is the Seed of Woman, gained in the womanhood of
the race in conscious overcoming of the sexual love and
seed, that becomes the Mother of living men, as well as
the Throne of Divine Love and Law, by which the proc-
esses of spiritual birth are introduced among men, so that
those receiving can be manifested as the children of God.
The same action of God that makes for spiritual birth
among the spiritually progressed, gives rebirth to the race,
establishing men and women in potential immortality;
as well as the capacity of oneness of union of male and
female qualities. However, mortals must consciously put
on the qualities of Wisdom and Love to be manifested
as Man or as Woman, as they were created to be.
Women, among the sexes, represent the inner forces,
while men represent the outer forces of developing man-
kind. The union of these, coupled with the influences of
the Inner Laws that permit a child to be formed in the
womb of a woman, bring forth an embodiment of con-
sciousness that still must become conscious of itself as
Man or Woman. When it is conscious of itself it becomes
an ego, an identified I; entities being subconscious factors
that are carried along in the sexual stream of the race,
into which they go as elements when disembodied by
means of death. Birth and death are poles of each other,
258 Spiritual Significance of the Body
birth forming that which death unforms. In this way,
consciousness is progressed in the school of Life, until
it gains the union of the male and the female qualities
of being, through overcoming the sexual love for the sake
of permitting the Divine Love to rule the consciousness.
The rulership of Divine Love makes for spiritual birth
and the revelation of the reality of being, as the Man God
created and made.
Ages of development in the dominancy of males kept
the females on low planes of progression, and turned
from their wombs kinds of humans that were low in men-
tality, emotion, and will. Evil governed these states and
brute force characterized their advancement, until the
principle of Mind was opened the last century, when an
understanding of the real nature of man was revealed,
coupled with seeing mankind as it is. While mentality
opened on the outer plane of advancement, giving us eras
of culture, art, poetry, music, invention, and other forms
of genius, it is not until the principle of Mind is identified
that authority over the outer plane is established. This
has been identified the last century, though it has its con-
summation as the identification of the Christ Mind, from
which Truth issues. Truth also uncovers the untruth,
uncovering the mysteries of sex at the same time that the
Mystery of Creation is revealed.
The last century witnessed the progression of the emo-
tional qualities of man (race), in keeping with the unfold-
ing intelligence, superseding the sensuality of sex with
a higher concept of love between men and women. The
parents that function on this wave of advancement have
a softer tendency toward their offspring, in contradistinc-
tion to the harshness of older generations; while the
younger generation shows a greater mental and soul
advancement, though more helpless on the bodily plane to
support itself. This, however, is the necessary reflection
of a turnover that has been taking place, by which the
material plane of progression is subordinated to the men-
tal; and by which the spiritual path of unfoldment may
be more readily entered.
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 259
The Generative Organs pertain as much to the soul
and mind and spirit of consciousness as to the body, for
they contact all these planes. However, the plane of spirit
contacted by these influences is the spirit of men or the
race, and not the Spirit of God. When sex creatures were
turned away from Eden and made to till the soil of their
own consciousness, further progressing the outer nature-
,
so that the body could be subjected to the Spirit at mor-
tality's close, they were cut off from Paradise and cannot
in any way enter into the ecstasy of the Creative Qualities.
Many adherents of black mysticism (occultism) take
exception to this idea, but never having mastered the
sexual love so as to be opened in the Divine Love, they
are without authority of knowing in the matter.
Consciousness is to be restored to its Edenic state,
but only those who pass the flaming sword of Truth, that
turns every way to keep the Tree of Life, can enter again
into Paradise and partake of the water of Life. When the
river Euphrates dries up, and consciousness is conformed
to the spiritual Laws of its being, it can partake of the
Tree of Life that ripens its fruit once a month, and which
is nourished from the river of Life. The river Euphrates
is the seminal water that is produced in the mortal nature
of mankind, and which connects with the sea of undevel-
oped forces of intelligence and love. The passing of the
sea is one with the passing of this river. Divine Love will
express in the nature of redeemed egos, they partaking
of its ecstasy by which they have continuity of life with-
out the necessity of birth and death. This is the Great
Consummation of Love, the marriage of the male-female
qualities of consciousness so as to produce the real state
of Man.
The ecstasy of the sexes, experienced in the orgasm,
is a symbolical reflection of the ecstasy experienced when
consciousness is able to function the Divine Love, because
male-female in character. This ecstasy forms the spiritual
organism, that gives identity to spiritual man, in contra-
distinction to the ecstasy of the sexes giving rise to the
formation of the mortal man; when contraceptive meth-
260 Spiritual. Significance of the Body
ods do not prevent it. However, children can be formed
in the wombs without women experiencing orgasms,
though the orgasmic process· is necessary to the males by
which seed is ejaculated.
The mesmerism of the sexes, operative in the copulative
union of the negative and positive generative organs, is
thought to be love, though repulsion to this idea and the
upholding of a higher Principle of Love have always per-
sisted in the consciousness of women; in spite of their
necessarily giving themselves to reproduce the material
world and mankind. Fortunately, the Woman Principle
did not enter into the reproduction of the material race,
for She asserts herself as the second coming of Christ, as
the Mother Principle of the children of God; as well as
the matrix by which living men are born and identified
as immortals. She is the Principle of Divine Love, the
saviour that redeems from the law of sin and death.
Hagar, the bondwoman, is the figure of the feminine
forces that have been subordinated to the uses of the male,
in the reproduction of a material world and mankind.
Sarah, a type of New Jerusalem, our mother that comes
down from heaven as the Bride of the Bridegroom, must
bring forth her beloved children, the children of God and
of Man. The same action of God that brings forth the
fruit of Christ, the Divine Principle Man, brings forth
the potential immortals, establishing the New Order in
the Ages. The introduction of the Principles of Truth, in
united Male-Female Qualities, into the race is the means
by which the old order of progression is brought to cessa-
tion, and the preparatory work for the establishment of
the New Order is carried forward. Truth both forms the
New Order and unforms the old, though it uses Satan and
his angels to destroy the world they have built up.
The repulsion of males to intelligent women, which has
become quite marked the last half-century, is equivalent
to their adherence to the supremacy of the male seed over
the feminine qualities, and is indirectly the desire to hold
the race in bondage to materiality. A distinct conflict is
being waged between the male and the female poles of
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 261
consciousness, this reflecting in the race the "War in
Heaven" that has been going on for a quarter of a century,
but which began on the outer plane in Nineteen Hundred
Twenty-two. Womanhood, as it characterized animal
mankind, was a graveyard into which were deposited the
forces of progression at their dissolution, with the copu-
lative dominancy of males giving these forces re-embodi-
ment, regardless of the desires of women.
The indignities to which women have been subjected
in the formation of the material world are consummated
in Judgment that issues from the Woman Principle, the
Helpmeet of God, toward the formation of immortality
and the New Order. This Judgment must of necessity be
projected in exact keeping of Law, in heaped-up, pressed-
down, and running-over measure. The indignities to
which women have been subjected have been an insult
to the Woman Principle that God created for a high and
holy purpose, and which was made to be a whore that
the materiality of men might be accommodated. Ignor-
ance of the Laws governing the unfoldment of the race
excuses no one, though these Laws never take the offen-
sive, but are capable of rendering to others what they
have rendered, with increase; when the time has come to
bring forth the free Woman and her offspring.
The Generative Organs represent the paradox in con-
sciousness, they being the seat of the lowest and of the
highest natural forces. The highest forces, however, func-
tion in relation to the seed of women, by which the Cre-
ative Power gives form to the male and female elements
that have become united within the womb. The lowest
forces center to the animal propensities, functioned in the
sexual relation, which are especially obnoxious to the
soul or feminine quality, functioned by women; when
soul is sufficiently progressed to register repulsion. This
has given rise to women repulsing the sexual activities,
this standing in the law of natural evolution as a symbol
of the Repulsion of the Creative Laws toward making
the material man. When this Repulsion is identified,
because consciousness is attracted to the Principle of
262 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Divine Love, it operates to bring to cessation the sexual
elements that make man mortal, and to resurrect the
immortal qualities.
Evolution is the unfoldment of forces of consciousness
by means of sensations in sex; while involution is the
superseding of these sensations and their effects with
intelligence that issues from the Inner Spirit. Evolution is
the mortal progression, involution is the spiritual progres-
sion. When the spiritual climaxes in Truth, with the
forces of the natural man subjected to the Divine Laws,
Christ, the Divine Man, can be formed in consciousness,
and the spiritual state of being is revealed. This revela-
tion comes at the end of Time, for t_
he revelation of the
spiritual man is also the manifestation of the Order of
Immortality for the race. The material is promoted by
indulging the sexual, while the spiritual is promoted by
ceasing to indulge the sexual. The sexual pertains to
spirit, soul, mind, and will of the mortal, and is not alone
associated with the sexual organs. Fortunately, one ego
overcoming and mastering the sexual love is sufficient
to permit the operation of Divine Laws, by which all
males and females are brought under their authority.
The transformation of the consciousness in thought,
word, feeling, and act is the transformation of the seed.
It follows that when consciousness is opened in the spir-
itual laws of its being, and the reality of man is unfolded,
egos become non-propagative in tendencies. This is sig-
nified on the plane of animality by the higher bred ani-
mals having less tendency toward propagation than those
of lower breeding; and is reflected in the race by the
mentally progressing assuming control over conception,
as well as some becoming barren and non-propagative.
All this indicates the sexual function as temporary and
not the chief aim of existence, though an ascension into
spirituality of being is necessary to disconnect the ego
from its laws of limitation.
The love relation of men and women will be harmon-
iously adjusted only when egos become harmonized
within themselves, in the male and female potencies,
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 263
uniting them in wisdom and love where now they are
separated by sexual nature. It is futile for the male to
seek satisfaction in a female when he has not found the
feminine of himself, even as it is futile for the female to
hope to find in a male what she cannot supply in herself.
One cannot give to another what one does not have to give,
and to have anything one must earn the possession of it.
This is done by possessing oneself in the Real nature, when
the Principle of Love is opened and makes a union with
its mate, Wisdom.
A male-female state of being is in epitome the united
stat~ of consciousness, and can function the allness of
Principles, having a righteous connection with God and
with one's fellowmen. The identification of this united
state of consciousness in the government of the United
States, as the second coming of Christ, is that by which the
United States becomes the Type Nation; even as Christ
becomes a Type Man and Woman. A Type nation becomes
the standard to all nations, an Ensign of God, universally
identified. A united state of consciousness is the revela-
tion of Man as God created him to be, male and female
in one self-same form of being, the nations of conscious-
ness.
The uncovering of the mysteries of God as respecting
birth and death the last half-century, with the attendant
uncovering of the Principles of Wisdom and Love, has
led to the uncovering of the mysteries of sex. The uncov-
ering of the mysteries of sex has been attended with con-
siderable destruction of romance between the sexes. This
is because there was no unity of the sexes in the sexual
relation, this being possible only as they are equal in
developed powers of spirit, soul, mind, and will. The
domination of women by men, by which womanhood was
made weak that manhood might be made strong, also
came to an end; though the adjustment of the sexes to a
righteous state of living is not yet worked out. It can be
worked out only through the Creative Laws that enter
their authority into the race, through Christ, the Truth,
at the end of Time, which influence is now asserting itself
264 Spiritual Significance of the Body
over the race and its affairs. A new social order is iden-
tified with a new governmental order, establishing love
and marriage in righteous relation.
Love is consummated when man is consummated, and
man is consummated when he is made to conform to the
Laws of God governing his being. This ultimates in
revealing spiritual man, who is begotten in the Love of
the Lord (Divine Laws) at the end of mortality. This is
a universal begetting, and the establishment on the plane
of the earth or race of the Principles of Being, as they are
in the unformed plane (heaven) ; by which the race is
identified in conformity to the governing Laws of God.
The establishment of a righteous government is the result
of the universal operation of Divine Laws, though the
first-fruits of God and Christ are brought forth as the
direct revelation of God among men.
Love is consummated in Christ, and not in the sexes,
though this consummation is dependent upon the death
of sexual love. Sex love can die and man be spiritually
born when consciousness has completed its progression
in the life of the flesh, and can take the next step of
advancement provided for it, that of bringing forth spir-
ituality of being. Reproduction of mortal man is finished
when one can discern the Laws that bring forth spiritual
man; their capacity to bring forth the reality of being
depending upon the renunciation of sexual love which is
the impetus of mortal life. Life is of the Spirit, while
death is of the mind of the flesh. Putting off the mind
of the flesh is the superseding of the intelligence gained
in sex sense with spiritual understanding; though this
is also accompanied by a change of love from the sexual to
the spiritual premise.
Birth-control operates in the closing days of mortality
because the mortal elements, through repeated embodi-
ments, are no longer brought into form. The elements of
the body are transposed to mental, soul, and spirit
energies, and these are given expression on higher planes
of living. The use of these transformed energies furnishes
the physical aspects of the New Order, preparing the race
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 265
to be reborn and to enter into higher planes of living;
though an action of Divine Love and Wisdom (Male-
Female Creative Potency) is necessary to bring the old
order of living to cessation and nothingness, at the same
time causing the New Order to be formed.
The female generative organs are made up of the two
ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus and vagina. The male
organs consist of the two testicles, the penis and prostate
gland. The secretion of the female is called ovum, that
of the male the spermatozoa or seminal cells. The ovum
contains the eggs, which fertilized by the spermatozoa of
the male, form a matrix of reproduction for a kind of a
man. This is to say the real man is not brought forth
through sexual copulation, but only a kind of a man; the
forces from the inner plane, that is, from Heaven, entering
into consciousness when one is spiritually quickened and
has superseded sexual love with the Love of the Spirit.
"That which is born of the flesh is flesh; that which is
born of the Spirit is spirit."
The laws of making mortal man are not the Divine
Laws, and are reversed in character to the Divine Laws.
Sex is the paradox of existence, the means by which both
life and death are promoted. It is the means by which
mortal man is formed: repulsion and overcoming of
mortal forces constitute the means by which mortal man
is unformed. The body is changed through the renewing
of the mind, though it is the overcoming of sexual love
that causes the change in the seed-life, by which a new
creature is brought forth when Divine Love is attained.
The testicles of the male symbolize the "bag of Judas,"
filled with worldly treasure, gained through denying and
betraying Christ; that is, through failure to enter regen-
eration and bring forth spiritual man. The embrace of
sex is the symbolical "Judas kiss."
The spermatozoa of the male is made up of serpent-
like processes that give a clue to the enlightened mind
as to the seat of the serpent in nature. The serpent is the
energy of matter by which intelligence and love, opposite
in nature to the Divine Intelligence and Love, are pro-
266 Spiritual Significance of the Body
moted. Hence, it is written of men, when sexually con-
joining with women, that "they know," while the copula-
tive tendency is referred to as "eating." It is the dual tree
that is eaten in the sexual progression, not the Tree of
Life. People born into the world, through copulative
function, are dead, however they may have existence in
a kind of a life. Mortality is death in process of unfold-
ment, though it is used by which the Principles of Life
have opportunity to assert themselves. They assert them-
selves as spiritual consciousness, which is gained through
repulsing and dying to the material tendencies.
Spiritual man is non-propagative, performing in the
race the function of God, that of supervising the unfold-
ment of the race and making known the Laws governing
it. Spiritual man is brought forth, in actuality, at the
passing of mortality; and issues from the immortal quali-
ties that are progressed as redeemed intelligence and will,
by which one partakes of the nature of Wisdom and Love
and is spiritually born. Spiritual man is virginal in char-
acter, being male-female in one form of being. Having
the nature of God, spiritual man will have continuity of
being through the Divine Laws, without being bound to
limitations common to mortality.
The many sentiments and thoughts and ideals, asso-
ciated with the generative organs, by mortally unfolding
consciousness, are permissable in the unfoldment of dark-
ness and death, but they are not only ridiculous, but abom-
inable when perceived in the Light of the Mind of the
Spirit. Yet, the children play with their toys before they
enter grades of higher learning. Even so, a kind of a man
has made of the generative organs toys with which he
plays, besmirching himself and obstructing the unfold-
ment of the real qualities of being, though permitted to
pursue the delusions of sense to their heights, at which
point they are brought to destruction. The Foundation of
Life, the Rock of Christ, stands regardless of progression,
though material builders of mortality have rejected it.
Yet, they are given opportunity to cast themselves upon
this Rock of Truth and destroy their own mortality; or
Generative Organs: Reproduction, Consummation 267
failing to do this, the Rock falls upon them and crushes
them to nothingness. The former course characterizes the
spiritually advancing, the latter the materially progress-
ing.
God is the controller of all, but directly controls the
material through controlling its forces to the spiritual
in a consciousness, dead to the necessity of generating
forces of thought and feeling through sexual copulation.
When one can put away the playthings of sense and put
on the intelligence of Mind, one can be opened to know the
Principles governing the expression of the reality of Man,
and be conformed to them; for their being and knowing
are one. A consciousness, thus freed in Truth, is an
organism in the hands (powers) of God by which the
entire race is reborn, and the fruit of God and Christ is
brought forth. Egos must consummate the plan of life
as it has operated in mortality, before they can know the
mysteries of Divine Love and be spiritually born. This
consummation includes repulsion to and understanding
of the sexual mystery.
A New Order means an entirely different social relation
of men and women, though only those freed from the
enticements of sex sense can enter into Paradise, and par-
take of the Tree of Life, by which they have continuity
of being, without the necessity of birth and death. The
necessity of the law of birth and death is the law of sin
and death that is offset by the attainment of the Law of
the spirit of Life in Christ. Christ is the Seed of God, gen-
erated in consciousness that is united male-female in
potencies; and is the means by which the governing Laws
of God are projected into the race to force its alignment
to the Principles of Being.
MEDITATION
I live and move and have my being in the Laws of
Divine Love.
No sense of sex can obstruct the consciousness, for I
am sustained from the inner Laws of Being.
I rejoice in the Power of God to reproduce spiritual
man.
HIPS: DETERMINATION AND
SELF-PRESERVATION
THE will to live and to preserve the self registers
in the generative organs. These organs are housed
in the abdomen, which is supported by the hips
and the lower limbs. The hips are to the abdominal organs
what the shoulders are to the head, a supporting factor
by which will or motive power is promoted. The shoul-
ders also indicate the responsibility in relation to love
(arms), as well as to wisdom (head); while the hips rep-
resent the responsibility in relation to the will (lower
limbs) and the natural life, centered to the generative
organs.
The Hips, two in number, are positive and negative,
or male and female in character. Wherever two are
identified there should be balance and harmony, though
it is in the form of the organism that the two are twain,
rather than in the cell life of the organs. If the cell life
were twain in the organs, eternal harmony would prevail,
with consciousness identified in eternal life, and not sub-
ject to sin, sickness, or death. Eternal life is continuity
of expression without necessity of birth or death; a state
transcending the third dimensional plane.
The goal for man is eternal life; freedom from all
inharmonies and discords. This goal is reached through
determination and self-preservation. Self-preservation
is the impetus of the natural plane of living, where all
centers to the self and its necessity of progression. The
mortal feels that the goal of life is to preserve the self at
whatever cost. This is the necessity until the self is
known, when the self must consciously die to its gains
in order to enter into genuine life and being. One must
be as determined to lose the self-life for the Spirit's sake,
when this point of advancement is reached, as one is
determined to preserve the life of the self on the lower
plane of progression. It is this determination that enables
(268)
Hips: Determination and Self-Preservation 269
the will of the self to die, and man to enter into the path
that leads to eternal life. This path is entered through
righteous will and act.
The "survival of the fittest" is a phrase common to the
lower plane of development. The determination to live,
to get along, to persist in faith and hope in spite of diffi-
culties and discords is innate in consciousness; for a goal
of attainment is set from the beginning of mortality, and
one must persist in gaining it. The self is preserved so
it can be developed toward that goal. Death is seen as
an enemy, which it is, so that life can be promoted, for
it is only through living that one can develop the powers
of the consciousness. The self must be developed in the
will of the flesh before it can be developed in the Will of
the _
Spirit. The will of the flesh develops the natural
man, the Will of the Spirit develops the spiritual man;
but the development of the natural precedes that of the
spiritual. However, the reduction of all things promoted
in the will of the flesh, as the natural man, to qualities
of the Spirit, is the ultimate step of self-will by which it
gains consciousness of itself, at the same time prepares
to die to itself for the Spirit's sake.
The Christ Self is the ultimate goal of every ego. This
is gained at the culmination of spiritual advancement,
induced by promoting the Will of the Spirit. Life is so
ordered that the spirits of Life are progressed in the race
through repeated births and deaths, consciousness having
the opportunity through many lifetimes of progression to
become conscious of itself. This consciousness gained
is the I, the natural man. The natural man gained gives
way to the gaining of the spiritual man; the I decreasing
as the I am or Spirit of God in man is increased.
Determination, as it operates in the consciousness of
man, is the reflected aspect of the Will of the Spirit or
Christ to reveal itself. The reproduction of offspring is
the effort of mortals to reveal themselves, though this pro-
vides embodiments for the dying self-states, so as to pro-
mote further unfoldment. This generative current is
especially associated with the hips and abdomen, though
270 Spiritual Significance of the Body
it is the function of women to give birth to these forms of
mankind. The hips of women especially receive atten-
tion, the form of women being distinctive in relation to
the function of reproduction. The hips and buttocks form
the foundation of the natural man, that upon which rests
the reproduction of mortal man. However, the reduction
of the hips to the determination of the will, and the rela-
tion of the will to being, must be understood in order to
coordinate the subtle relations of ideas and their forms,
when associated with bodily organism.
The buttocks are the seat of the natural life. That they
form a seat for the natural organism is not without its
inner significance. The hips and buttocks sustain the
organism when actively resting, as sitting implies, and in
sleep, the phase of negative resting, they also support the
ego. However, sleeping on the back is not encouraged,
since it is fraught with capacity to contact the psychic
and dream-planes, and can lead to subconscious con-
fusion and disturbance. The abdomen especially houses
the organs of the animal man, this symbolizing itself by
women carrying the re-embodying egos on the plane of
mortality and giving them birth.
Determination is the supporting factor of self-con-
scious development, therefore relates to self-support.
Every ego is innately determined to be self-supporting, if
his or her faculties are normally expressed. This is
essential toward the perfect expression of the self, for it
is only through work that one's powers are called into
action and progressed. If the self does not live on its own
efforts, it fails to express its powers and the consciousness
of man is left undeveloped. Self-sup.port develops self-
respect, establishing the law of balance, by which one can
give and receive freely, in exact conformity to the Law
of Divine Love. When one lives on the efforts of another,
one's own possibilities are crippled. If one fails to give
expression to one's own powers, one fails to receive that
by which consciousness is progressed toward the goal of
perfecting the natural man.
Responsibility, in relation to the will, is present through-
Hips: Determination and Self-Pres.ervation 271
out the life of the natural man. Will is the motive power,
as well as the power of motion. The motives of living
must be right if one is to transcend the necessity of self-
preservation, as it operates on the plane of materiality
where greed dominates, and come to rely upon the inner
governing Principles and Laws. It is not that man is ever
free from protecting himself from the woes and evils
of the world, but that reliance upon the inner powers for
protection overcomes the sense of fear, inviting a greater
expression of harmony and peace; so that one comes to
be supported by the Higher Laws of one's being.
The natural man lives greatly in the forces below the
diaphragm. The consciousness above the diaphragm,
however, is coordinated to the Higher Laws of Being
that relate to Wisdom (Head) and to Love (chest), this
part of the organism being protected from many forces
that invade the material world. When it is seen that the
organism of man is in epitome the organism of the uni-
verse, one can account for the many changes going on in
it, and the necessity of growth in understanding; in order
to cope with the changing conditions of living.
Many people speak of the body as from the hips down-
ward, or center thought of the body to the abdomen and
the lower limbs. It is a fact that the will, the body prin-
ciple, relates to this part of the organism, the soul to the
chest region, and the spirit to the head region. Mind, the
fourth function of consciousness, gained through coordi-
nating the forces of spirit, soul, and body, is an omni-
present factor relating to the entire organism; though it
has its identification at the top of the head as the Mind
of the Spirit. In reality, the only Mind is the Mind of
the Spirit, though people are said to have mind or men-
tality though they do not think the Truth, nor know the
Laws of God governing the being of man.
The hips and the lower limbs, with the bowels and gen-
erative organs, pertain more directly to the earthly ele-
ment and the animal nature of man. The seat of the
animal nature is the will. Will is determination, and
pertains to motion, the power to act, to do. Will especially
272 Spiritual Significance of the Body
relates, when identified in the earthly nature, to the lower
limbs, and to the bowels and generative organs. The
bowels are the motion of elimination, the generative
organs are the motion of formation, that is, the means
by which the unformed elements are given birth or form.
The unformed elements are the residue of forces dis-
solved at death, the formed elements are the result of
birth. Birth and death are one in the law of natural
evolution, with a kind of a life attending the progression
of a kind of a man.
The will is a wonderful agent of growth and deter-
mination. It is the capacity to persist in unfoldment in spite
of difficulties encountered by the mortal. It is the power
to preserve t e self in spite of tribulations attending the
unfoldment of the self. The will is also an agent of per-
versity and evil, but when the I is unfolding in under-
standing, the consciousness is controlled by uniting will
and understanding, and all things work together for the
highest good of the self. It is only when the will is sur-
rendered to the forces of darkness and evil that it becomes
an agent of destruction to the self.
Perversity of will, stubborness, arrogance, and many
other hellish aspects of the self, arise because the will of
the self is not yet controlled to understanding, but is
unfolding in the forces of darkness, the primal path of the
self's development. These forces show their effect in the
bowels, as well as debase the generative organs, giving
rise to malformation and iniquitous influences in off-
spring. The many forces of lust and greed are promoted in
sensuality, these influences passing to offspring by means
of the generative seed, that is the formed result of energies
of thought and feeling. A perverted male may father an
idiot, or a perverted female may give rise to inharmonious
combination of forces of consciousness that makes for
perversion and abnormality.
The will or determination to live is the will to be born.
This is eventually the will to be spiritually born, but
before one can be spiritually born one must have gained
the self-consciousness, and have entered into the death
Hips: Determination and Self-Preservation 273
of the self. Voluntarily dying for the sake of the unfolding
Spirit within will free the consciousness from the neces-
sity of birth and death, as they operate on the material
plane of living. When death is voluntarily entered into,
Life that is genuine will spring up in the degree that
death dies.
The new generation of women is greatly hipless. Man-
nish forms characterize them, where before females were
distinct as to form of hips and abdomen. The necessity
of giving birth to mortals has been greatly subjected to
the Laws governing spiritual birth, birth-control on the
outer plane of living signifying the dominion being taken
over birth; with corresponding control being taken over
death. The control of death is taken on the spiritual
plane of advancement, while the control of birth is also
incidental to the subjection of the will and love of the
flesh to the Will and Love of God. The spiritual attain-
ments set the Standard of unfoldment for the race, causing
its Principles to be symbolized on the plane of the flesh,
where the race picks them up and aids in its own plane
of development to promote the fulfilment of the will of
the Spirit.
The many hipless and bustless women that have come
in with the new generation are symbolical representations
of Laws of God working out to give the race rebirth; as
well as spiritual birth to those who have died to the self
thoughts and love. The Laws of God set the standard of
a new order, cutting off the necessity of childbearing, as it
has functioned on the material plane, indicating this in
the thought, love, and bodily forms of women. The
changed forms of women also signify the attainment of
masculinity of consciousness, this reflecting itself in the
body as equality of expressions. Divine Laws encompass
the progression of males with Woman, reflecting this in
the masculine forms of women.
Determination to bring the race to the goal, set from
the foundation of the world, is present in the operation of
Divine Will. Divine Will acts through united Wisdom
and Love, therefore is male-female in its character. Its
274 Spiritual Significance of the Body
function is to bring forth the virgins, who are the male-
female egQs who make up the first-fruit unto God and
unto Christ. The preservation of the self, in the attain-
ment of Christ, is the legitimate self-preservation, for
the ego has not eternal identity until gained in reality of
being (Christ). The determination to bring forth the
reality of being must transcend the activities of mortal
living, this permitting consciousness to coordinate with
the inner Principles and Laws that operate to bring forth
Man, in the image and likeness of God.
The ordinary sense of self-preservation and determina-
tion was to obtain the things of the world, and to enhance
the values of the selfish self. This was attended with the
will to be, regardless of the welfare of others. This condi-
tion, while attending the early evolution of the race, is
a necessity in the law of sin and death, but is not approved
before the Divine Laws. It is because the evolution of
the mortal man is outside the scope of God's Love (action
of Principle) and is unprincipled, that the progression
of the race is attended with tribulations. When the self-
consciousness gives way to consciousness of Man, as God
created him to be, one is determined to bring forth the
reality of being, and to preserve the eternal identity that
is uncovered as the Christ Self. Then it is that the Divine
Will can be done in the earth (formed plane; man) as it
is in heaven (plane of Principles and Laws).
Man is not for himself but for the Lord. This is to say
that the Laws of God (Lord) are unfolding the Plan of
themselves, revealing the fruit of the Creator as reality
of being. This is man as God created him to be. There-
fore, at some point of progression egos must put off the
tendencies of the self, and seek after the knowing and
being of the Real State of Man, that the determination of
the Divine Will may bring forth its result. Otherwise,
living becomes a fruitless round of material progression,
forcing egos in the direction of the goal of spiritual
advancement. It is better, however, to advance through
developing wisdom and love, than through having the
lash of tribulation laid to the back. Yet, each makes his
Hips: Determination and Self-Preservation 275
or her own choice, moving toward the goal of becoming
spiritual man, reaping according to one's motives and
will.
MEDITATION
I am preserved by the supporting Power of God.
I am determined to know the Divine Will and to let
it have its way in me.
God's will is done in the physical, as well as in the
spiritual domain of consciousness.
KNEES: HUMILITY AND DEVOTION
KNEES pertain.to the lowe.r limbs, hence relate to
the will to do. They are the most prominent
joint of the body. A joint typifies a point where
one idea hinges on to another, by which harmonious
sequence is promoted. It is an articulation, signifying
clarity of word and thought. Articulation relates to clarity
of speech and distinctness of words expressed. The entire
organism of man is first Ideas in Mind before it is form,
therefore the relation of these outer bodily organs and
functions to the inner Intelligence. Joints pertain to har-
mony of action, or expression.
The Knees pertain to humility and devotion, hence
associate with prayer. Prayer is communion of man with
the Inner Spirit, or God. The ceaseless prayer is the con-
sciousness of Truth, the relating of all things to the inner
Principles; though some things are seen to be unrelated.
Things related to the outer world are those about which
man would not pray, since the world and its forces are not
of the Father, or of the Laws of Being; such prayer would
avail nothing. Primarily, prayer is the means by which
the will of the self is subjected to the Divine Will, this
leading to the capacity to express the Truth. Truth is
the consciousness gained through knowing the inner gov-
erning Principles. These are known through their being.
Kneeling, relating to the knees, typifies the humility of
the ego before the Laws of God. It signifies the subjection
of man to God, though it is attended with the spirit of
devotion, when prayer is genuinely entered into. This
is not to say that one cannot pray without kneeling, for
the ceaseless prayer that availeth much is a system of
living, in which the ego conforms to the Principles and
Laws of Being that have made themselves known through
progressed devotion and humility. Yet, when conscious-
ness needs greatly to be humble before God, and is help-
less in its own will, it kneels before God in prayer. This
[276]
Knees: Humility and Devotion 277
casting down promotes receptivity of consciousness to
the inner good, whether it be peace of mind, poise of soul,
mental light, or will to do what is necessary.
When the self-will has been subjected to the Divine
Will, and the ego is opened to know the Truth, one may
enter into the ceaseless prayer, which offsets the necessity
of kneeling. Knees, as they function in the physical organ-
ism, signify the state of forces, developed in self-con-
sciousness, that must always be bowing before the Higher
Powers in humility, that the proper devotion may express
between Man and God. It is to say that all that one thinks,
feels, says, and does when spiritually progressing, con-
tain "knees" 'when they are seen in their spiritual signifi-
cances. Thus every self-consciousness comes to be on his
or her knees before God; the practice of the Presence of
God being a conscious recognition of the Power and Pres-
ence of God in the life and affairs. This is the meekness
necessary to enable the ego to enter into his or her spir-
itual inheritance on the physical plane, with the outer
affairs controlled to the inner governing Laws of Being.
One may pray in spirit and in Truth without bending
the physical knees, but the knees of consciousness are
continually bowed down before the unfolding Laws of
Being. When one is taught of the Spirit, through the
development Of humility and devotion, one may walk
and talk with God, as with a good and trusted friend,
receiving directly the emanations of the Spirit that pro-
mote the highest expression for man; though this is pos-
sible only when one is serving the Divine Cause and has
died to self-desires, being continually about the business
of the Divine Laws. The righteous prayer is the righteous
living, a constant communion with God in the reconcil-
iation of all things to the underlying Principles and Laws.
Kneeling in prayer is good exercise by which faith and
devotion are promoted. Likewise, any exercise that makes
supple joints is commendable. Exercises must be done in
their spirit, and not in a mechanical manner if one is to
derive the most good from them. Exercise is an outer
activity that naturally follows the capacity to inwardly
278 Spiritual Significance of the Body
concentrate and control the forces of consciousness to the
powers of mind and spirit. Exercise is to be encouraged
as an aid in promoting the health of the outer organism,
that still contacts the laws of Cresar, as long as mortality
and its elements remain.
The Knees, from the purely physical standpoint, are
flexures of convenience, giving grace to walking. They
symbolize the grace to be gained in living when one's will
is subjected to the Divine, and one walks in the path of
righteousness, in humility and devotion to the unfolding
Principles of Being. When one subjects, through prayer
and thought, the will of the self to the Will of the Spirit,
one grows in grace, which is to grow in devotion and
humility. Humility is not abasement but an exaltation of
the spirit, because one is conformed to inner Principles
and Laws.
Humility, when properly expressing, is an intelligent
meekness that invites the fuller action of the Divine Laws
that promote the harmonies of living. Humility is a spir-
itual characteristic, when properly identified. Meekness
that issues from timidity is not humility, but it is that
negation of self-consciousness that is present because
one's powers are unexpressed. Humility is consciously
gained through voluntarily dying to the self-thought, love,
and desire, because the spiritual light is discerned. It is
that capacity to let the Divine Will be done in the life
and affairs, through the surrender of the self-will. It
is promotive of greater good, both on the natural and on
the spiritual planes of living, therefore is always con-
structive in its tendency. Humility is promotive of more
good to the individual than an aggressive spirit that seeks
to command its own by force.
As one subjects the self-thought, will, and desire to the
Divine Will, one enters into humility, for the adverse
forces open in the consciousness and one discerns the evils
that are within man, and which are opposed to the Higher
Laws of Being. The exposure of one's weaknesses and
evils ought to force a greater devotion to the Inner Prin-
ciples. It is the spirit of devotion that prompts the cease-
Knees: Humility and Devotion 279
less prayer, that is, the capacity to live continuously in
the Presence of God, because relating all things to the
Inner Principles; or discovering their lack of coordina-
tion. The adverse spirit may arise in the nature, under
certain conditions, but this should force humility rather
than develop the spirit of mockery and antagonism.
Devotion is an aspect of affection, though when related
to the knees it suggests the Love of God. People do not
kneel to each other, except where sense superiority
demands it; hence, it is only to God that devotion suggests
the knees and kneeling. Devotion is promoted by prayer,
but it is also increased through understanding. It can-
not express perfectly until the self-will is subjected to
the Divine Will; for the will is ever an enticing factor
leading man away from God, until subjected to the
authority of the Divine Will.
Devotion is a factor of love, hence it pertains to the
feminine qualities of the consciousness. It expresses as
faith, loyalty, sincerity, humility, and other aspects
relating to the unfoldment of the soul qualities. Humility
characterizes a childlike heart, attained through devoting
oneself to the understanding of the spiritual and its rela-
tion to living. Humility is opposite to self-righteousness
and material assertiveness, and when prompted by the
love of the Spirit, develops devotion and understanding.
Devotion to the spiritual must be if one is to grow in
grace and understanding. "Every knee must bow"
before the God of the consciousness, before devotion and
humility will be expressed in balance and order. Devotion
and humility are important factors of growth, and must
relate to the knowledge of the Spirit, before they can be
perfectly expressed on the outer plane of living. Outer
devotion or humility may be induced for a season, but
the ego must see behind the scenes of material living,
before he or she can enter into the genuine spirit of these
qualities.
The main disorders that can beset the knees relate to
rheumatism and arthritis, but these are from the pressure
and chemistry of the blood, and not from the knees them-
280 Spiritual Significance of the Body
selves. When the mentality is not properly coordinated,
the influences of the mental forces penetrate the physical
domain, giving rise to disorders that can be reached by
mental and spiritual healing processes. But if the knees
are disordered because of the chemistry of the body, they
will have to be corrected from an adjusted diet and a har-
monized blood stream. Infections in the system, such as
from the teeth or tonsils, react to different parts of the
body, setting up inharmonies that must be dealt with
under natural laws.
People cannot violate the natural laws and expect to
be healed through mental and spiritual processes. Viola-
tions of natural laws may occur within the mind, or on the
outer plane of living, but the remedy for these is under-
standing, coupled with such activities as will promote the
harmony of the physical elements of the body. Yet, one
cannot separate the influences of the mental and the
spiritual from the physical. Will is the motion of life and
it relates to muscles, joints, and all parts of the body
where activity is expressed. A disordered will can dis-
order the blood, for the motion of the blood is an aspect
of will. Disorder in one direction will react in all direc-
tions.
Life is a quality associated with the blood, but if living
is not coordinated properly on all planes of expression,
the blood can be disturbed. The Spirit of Life is in the
blood, and any violation of the Spirit, or failure to discern
its qualities, can react disastrously to the blood. Harmony
is the result of coordination of the forces of spirit, soul,
mind, and body, so as to permit the outer consciousness
to be controlled by the Inner Principles and Laws. Devo-
tion and humility, related to knowing God and its Laws,
aid in promoting harmony that is genuine in character.
When the mental or spiritual healer is treating any part
of the body, he or she should reduce the organism to its
quality or qualities of consciousness, properly discerning
these qualities. Thus in healing one is present with the
Lord and absent from the body. The influences that
emanate from the Light that is shed, because an outer con-
/(nees: Humility and Devotion 281
dition of darkness demands it, constitute the fundamental
elements of the higher healing system; though this also
involves the relation of all people to One Man, the Christ
Principle within the consciousness. Healing is not pro-
jected as thought, but identified as being within the con-
sciousness, all being one before the Divine Laws and
benefited by the realizations of Truth attained by anyone;
if sufficiently advanced to receive it.
Healing must be attended with devotion that will permit
the harmony of Divine Love to move with Wisdom, as
well as with humility, by which one can give God all glory
and honor for the healing accomplished. Man is but the
organism through which the Spirit enacts its Laws, all
spiritual healing being accomplished through the Spirit.
However, the Spirit has its embodiment in Man, therefore
has its seat of action from the consciousness of Man
attuned to its Laws.
"The meek shall inherit the earth," an admonition of
the gospel, implies the necessity of attaining to devotion
and humility. The earth is the formed plane, the physical
domain. The inheritance of the earth is the heavens, the
invisible Principles and their out-working qualities. The
earth when perfectly formed is the manifestation of the
Qualities of Being, therefore the body, which is the earth
individualized, when revealed in its righteous expression
will be Man, identified in the body of white. This is the
body that is freed from sin, sickness, and death. The
author has witnessed this body and its dissemination into
the race to bring forth after its kind, in fiat of Divine
Love.
MEDITATION
I am established in humility, receptive to understand-
ing of Truth.
I am devoted to the unfolding Principles and Laws of
Being.
I surrender myself to the Divine Will in humility and
devotion.
LOWER LIMBS AND FEET: WILLING
AND DOING
T
HE Lower Limbs and Feet represent the capacity
of the will to do. Doing is the means by which
being is established. One does not think himself
or herself into life, but establishes consciousness of being
and living by doing what is thought. This is the case on
all planes of expression. The lower limbs signify the
means by which life is expressed or set into action. It is
through walking that the qualities progressed within
the consciousness are given application to the life, and ·
by which being is promoted. The activity of thinking is
the inner walking that makes for the outer capacity to
do; though willingness to do forms the connecting link
between the inner qualities and their outer expression.
People move from place to place without limbs, yet,
these are without normal functioning. The laws of com-
pensation will balance the expressions of life for those
crippled in any way, the brain still retaining the central
function, even though the organs of expression relating
are cut off. The lower limbs, consisting of the legs, knees,
and feet, with the ankles and toes, all represent the will
of action, the motor power that conveys consciousness
from plane to plane of advancement. Yet, one will never
be any farther advanced than is his or her power of
thought and will. People spend lifetimes in dreaming,
but only as these are made actual through doing power, do
they attain the fulfilment of things hoped for.
Will is the capacity to act, to do. Doing expresses itself
on the natural plane as work, recreation, and sleep. Sleep
is the negative factor of which work and recreation are
the positive factors of doing. Work is the capacity to
express intelligence and service. Wark may be expressed
without the use of the lower limbs, but perfection of form
depends upon the whole body functioning. Perfection of
form is the perfected body, this being subconsciously iden-
[282J
Lower Limbs and Feet: Willing and Doing 283
tified as normal functions of the body; though conscious
understanding of these functions, as to their underlying
principles, is essential to perfect the body. The body per-
fected is spiritual, though the spiritual is the physica]
that is manifested through applying the Principles of the
Spirit to the life.
The Lower Limbs have always commanded consider-
able attention. This is because they relate to being, to
reproduction on the plane of form of the qualities un-
folded in life. When consciousness was bound to low
expressions of sex, and mentality was not enlightened,
the lower limbs of women were kept respectfully covered;
lest adulterated emotions would run riot and the will con-
trol to the detriment of advancing society. As intelligence
advanced, and emotions were controlled, the lower 1imbs
were discovered to be a legitimate part of the anatomy
of women, with men able to look upon them from the
physiological, rather than from the sensual standpoint.
Short dresses aided in this recovery, and bathing suits of
modern design cure ~ the malady, probably for all time.
People can now have legs and be proud of them! Such
has been the progression of lower limbs the last quarter
of a century, and the progression of the race!
Mortals, working through the will of the flesh, would
be expected to centralize to the lower limbs that sym-
bolize the will's activity. Feet, the pedal extremities of
the lower limbs, have also come into their own. Before
mentality became enlightened they symbolized the mate-
riality of men, and while few feet have attained to beauty,
they are considered more in the thought of freedom than
in slavery, and are given attention as worthy servants of
men. Scripture declares, "How beautiful are the feet of
those who bring good tidings," of the outworking Intelli-
gence of God, this suggesting the will to walk or live in
keeping with what is known. Feet are the walking facili-
ties, but walking typifies the active powers of man to
accomplish what he knows, finally revealing the reality
of being when Truth is known.
Beauty of limbs and of feet, with corresponding beauty
284 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of garments and shoes, typifies the gaining of the real
covering of consciousness, that of Wisdom and Love. As
the body comes into its own, it is regarded as a vehicle
of the Spirit's unfoldment and is correspondingly clothed.
Beauty has invaded all planes of living, now that the
Woman Principle, the Principle of Beauty embodied, is
unfolding its powers toward establishing a New Order,
in which beauty, harmony, and good-will will reign. The
New Age will primarily reflect the feminine principle of
Being, though when equality is established between the
male and the female poles of expression, a certain harmo-
nious neutrality will characteriZe the activities of men
and women. Jealousies, rivalries, antagonism, domina-
tion, greed, and sensuality, and other dissenting factors
of progression, pass away with the passing of mortality.
Willingness is an attainment of consciousness that is
gained through doing what one knows one should do,
and through ceasing to do what one knows should not be
done. Willingness is a properly positioned will, one that
is governed by intelligence and conformed to the inner
Laws of Being. Willingness is more than being willing.
Many people are willing, but are not doing anything to
permit willingness to fulfil itself. Willingness is the
result of the consummation of one's willing as doing
power, by which the ideals perceived and upheld in mind
are made reality and fact. Willingness, as the Divine
Laws require its expression, is letting the Divine Will be
done in the consciousness. This is accomplished by ceas-
ing to do one's own will in the presence of higher intelli-
gence and love to be expressed. The self-will, subjected
to the I, enables the I to subject itself to the Divine Will,
this permitting the Laws of Being, existent within the con-
sciousness, to make themselves known and to work out a
righteous bodily state.
The self-will is present in every activity of conscious-
ness that has been promoted on the plane of the senses.
It is the means by which the fleshly nature is developed
and kept alive. The death of the self-will is the resur-
rection of the Divine Will in the consciousness, as well
Lower Limbs and Feet: Willing and Doing 285
as it being the means by which self-love dies and the
Divine Love is made alive. Thus the feet, referred to in
scripture, as being beautiful, because they serve in making
known the good tidi~s of eternal life, are not feet in
the material sense, bu~ the willing and doing powers that
permit the Divine Will to make known the real state of
being; and to project its qualities into the race. The self-
will dies when the natural course is completed, and is
attended with the perdeption of man as he is spiritually
created to be. I
Willingness as God requires it permits a complete
change of consciousnJss, even to transformation of the
elements of the body. litis through this change that works
from the spiritual plane toward the race that body is
brought under a high~r energy-rate the last century, and
physical changes hav~ come in the environment of man.
The environment reflects the changes taking place on the
physical domain of individual consciousness; and the
physical domain is the objectification of changes taking
place within the spiritual domains of consciousness. "If
any man willeth to do his will, he shall know of the teach-
ing," that is, can discover the inner Laws of Being and
be governed by them. IOne cannot do the inner Will until
one has taken dominion over the outer will. Will includes
the action of thought, word, feeling, deed, as well as the
inner impetus that prompts these activities.
Doing is the executive power applied to the plane of
expression. Willing is the inner impetus to do, but doing
is the action that makes the willingness productive. Do-
ing is the executive faculty of the will. If one is willing
to do what one knows, on whatever plane of advance-
ment, as well as willing to not do what one knows should
not be done, one has identified that law by which the will
may be progressed to its goal. This process of living
invites more to be known and more to be done, thus pro-
moting the principle of oneness of knowing and being.
Doing is the power by which one attains being, though
one must do that which conforms to the inner Intelligence
to enter into being, as God intended man to be. However,
286 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the symbolical state of being, wherein man has conscious
recognition of himself or herself, is established by know-
ing and doing as one, on any plane of advancement.
The hearers are not the powers that progress conscious-
ness, but the doers. To hear and not do is worse than
not to hear, for it embraces the factor of disobedience.
Hearing associates with Intelligence, hence, it is under-
stood that what is heard is from the Mind that gives
impetus to higher progression. Those not hearing the
inspirations of this Mind are said to be without ears. All,
however, must learn to close the mind to hearing what
should not be done, this being best accomplished by de-
veloping the mentality so as to keep the mind stayed on
higher ideas, which prompt greater expressions of doing.
The character of living partakes of the nature of what
one thinks and does. Lack of doing promotes indolence,
laziness, indifference, as well as stagnation of the forces
of the body. Lack of doing can bring the consciousness to
chaos and destruction. Doing that which is not in keep-
ing with intelligence and love leads to confusion and in-
harmony, therefore a proper expression of will is neces-
sary, if one would invite harmony in the life and affairs.
Anything that relates to willing and doing has entered
into the making of the lower limbs, as well as the upper
limbs; though the upper limbs relate to the qualities of
love and the doing power actuated from the higher plane
of intelligence. When one does what one should on the
natural plane, evolution is progressed and the way made
straight, eventually, to enter into spiritual knowing. The
obstructions to knowing the spiritual, or the activity of
the Qualities of the Spirit, will be found on the ·natural
plane; for one cannot receive from within what has not
been correspondingly set into action on the outer plane of
living.
The faculty of will is developed through doing, though
this doing may relate to the mental, the soul, and the
spiritual planes of consciousness, as well as to the plane
of the body. One may think one is willing to do certain
things, to take certain steps of progression, but will meet
Lower Limbs and Feel: Willing and Doing 287
with opposition or antagonism from forces within the
consciousness. These forces can be subjected to the intel-
ligence, and when so conformed, there are no dissenting
voices arising on the inner planes to obstruct one's ad-
vancement. People are without power to affect one's
thinking, for it is what one thinks about the thoughts
and actions of others that affects the consciousness. The
doing of the bodily plane may involve obstructions aris-
ing from others which must be overcome.
The will has so long run riot that it may appear to be
antagonistic to the higher intelligence. This is only an
appearance, for the developed mentality and love can
always control the will. Man can do what he wills to do,
and he can will to do what he loves or what he knows to
be right. If his love is not yet controlled to intelligence,
he is unwilling to will to do what is presented by the
intelligence, and herein is the struggle that precipitates
itself, when the I assumes authority over the conscious-
ness. When one becomes conscious of one's doing powers,
on all planes of expression, one brings all forces into cap-
tivity to the unfolding intelligence, and begins to genuinely
live.
The Feet especially relate to understanding. They
represent the intelligence at the point where form arises,
hence is that point where consciousness touches the earth
or formed plane. The toes represent the powers of the
will in multiplicity of action. Ten, the number of fingers
and toes, applies to the primal Qualities of Being before
they are united with the two, male and female poles, and
given form. The toes are factors of motion, therefore
pertain to action or that which leads to manifestation.
All motive power, harmoniously expressed, reacts har-
moniously to the body, while contrariwise, all inharmoni-
ous actions react inharmoniously.
Joints are symbolical of points where one idea hinges
onto another to form a consecutive outworking of the
original idea. The ankle, as a joint, would relate to the
consecutive action of the Will to perfect an expression,
establishing it outwardly as it is inwardly conceived.
288 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Motion pertains to the formation of energies, generated
from the inner ideas, for ideas precede motion. Energies
of motion, identified as from intelligence that is of the
nature of Truth, make up the factor of Love by which the
Divine Will is done. Motion relates to the lower limbs,
especially, taking form as capacity to pass from one plane
to another, as symbolized by walking from one place to
another. Motion is the energy of life that permeates the
entire organism, but forces have particular points of func-
tioning, giving rise to central functions and their systems
of expression.
The will to do what is known, and what is compatible
with intelligence and love, will open the way of expres-
sion. Expression is the means by which the energies of
Life are given form and tangibility. The righteous will,
identified in consciousness, promotes the harmony of the
entire organism, especially coordinating the spirit, soul,
mind, and body, so as to bring one under the authority of
the Divine Laws and Will. Harmony of the body is de-
pendent, primarily, upon the united male and female
poles of consciousness, but it is the will to be united that
enables one to cope with the forces of death promoted on
the mortal plane, and which brings one into consciousness
of life and being. The uniting of the intelligence and the
will, or the knowing and the doing, through proper will,
is that outer act by which the male (intelligence) and the
female (will: love) are made one, and the harmony of
Being is identified.
Man does not live for the body but for the Spirit. The
body is a servant of the consciousness by which the ego
comes into the reality of life and being. It is not for
fornication, but for the Lord. Will is the keynote to the
attainment of reality of life and being. Willingness is
present when Will is properly identified, and the doing
power properly expresses because Will is identified to
do in the earth, or formed plane, what is done in the
heaven, or unformed plane. The attention given the body,
the last half-century, and especially to the doing powers,
both individually and racially, indicates the Will of Being
Lower Limbs and Feet: Willing and Doing 289
is working out its Plan to establish man in righteous re-
lation to its Laws. The good tidings of eternal life are
again brought to man, and the Standard of Truth is set
up, as a measuring rod of Judgment, to determine the
fitness of the race to be identified in immortality.
MEDITATION
I am willing to understand the principles of Truth and
to apply them.
I love to do the Truth and to let it have its will in me.
"Not my will, but Thine be done."
NERVES: SENSITIVENESS AND IMMUNITY
N
ERVES are the channels of sensation. They sig-
nify the emanations of intelligence that go out
from mind. Mind is functioned by means of the
brain, at center, though it has a circumferential expres-
sion from the twelve centers or' consciousness. The mind
communicates its intelligence to the body by means of
nerves, though this is subconsciously operative. Forces
of thought and feeling leave their impressions upon the
organism, the nerves registering the sensations that cor-
respond to their qualities. If anger goes out as thought
and feeling, the emanated nervous energy partakes of a
like character, making its impression upon a particular
part of the organism to which it relates.
Nerves are two in character, the duality of forces char-
acterizing the organism of mortal man. The nerves are
grouped as the sensory and the motor, the former giving
sensation and the latter motion of energies. These corre-
spond to the united intelligence and will, two important
factors of consciousness that are dealt with continually
by the self or I. When intelligence and will are one, both
are controlled by the I, and the sensitiveness of the con-
sciousness is greatly subjected to the mind. When mind
controls the emotions immunity to feeling forces is set up,
not as failure to feel but as power to control what is felt.
Nerves relate to the white and the grey matter of the
brain, being of white or grey fibres. The brain is the seat
of the nervous system, though the distribution of the
nervous energy is by means of the spinal cord and its
associated nerve centers. Nerves relate to the sense of
touch, especially, though include all the senses in their
scope of action. Feeling, the sensation that is present
because of nerves, especially characterizes the sense of
touch. Nerves are the channels through which energies
are disseminated, and signify the carriers of the spirits
(intelligences) of Life. It is not that the life of the nervous
[290]
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 291
energy is the Life of the Spirit, but that on the plane of
mortality a symbolical spirit of life is identified. This
symbolical spirit of life animates the animality of nature
by means of the nervous system. The action of this life
is the will of the flesh which is stimulated by the mind
of the flesh.
"The mind of the flesh is death," therefore the will of
the flesh is promotive of the forces of death; though this
is said to be life by the mortally minded. The mind of
the flesh is adversary to the Mind of the Spirit, that is,
it is an enemy to the spiritual energies that emanate from
spiritual thought and feeling. Because of this enmity,
the forces of consciousness that are adverse to the spirit-
ual arise in resistance to the emanated energies of the
Spirit, projected through spiritual thought and feeling.
Spiritual thought is identified when consciousness stills
the mind of the flesh sufficiently to make contact with
the inner Spirit; though this is also dependent upon the
outer intelligence and will being coordinated and con-
trolled to the I, or self ego. When the adverse forces
of the self-consciousness arise, because the Light of the
Mind of the Spirit shines into the soul, it is the time of
mastery and overcoming of the sensations of the flesh,
both as to thought and feeling; by which the Mind of the
Spirit can set up its rulership.
Sensitiveness to the unfolding forces of the natural life
is developed in promoting the life and mind of the flesh.
The gaining of the natural life is for the purpose of losing
it, or subjecting it, for the Spirit's sake, that the spiritual
qualities of being may unfold. Sensitiveness, attained at
the gaining of the natural self, must be followed by
immunity to the forces developed on the mortal plane
of living, so as to permit the powers of the Spirit to be
disseminated into the organism of consciousness. Im-
munity attained is not a non-feeling state but the capacity
to control the emanating energies of feeling and intelli-
gence. If one can say, "None of these things move me,"
it implies that things are encountered that promote feel-
ing, but that one is in control of the feelings arising.
292 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The spiritualized consciousness does not live in the
world of sensation. This does not mean that the function
of the nerves is overthrown, but that sensation is super-
seded by intelligence; and thought-control identifies by
which the feeling is also controlled. This makes for con-
siderable mastery over the organism, though as long as
the elements of mortality remain in any combination the
ego is subject to the limitations mortality has promoted;
but, at the same time, can bring to bear upon these limita-
tions forces of consciousness that more quickly control
them and promote harmony.
The energies of spiritual ideas and feelings are pro-
jected by means of mind, and not by means of nerves;
though the nerves make subconscious connection with
energies. Mortal man is controlled through sensations
that promote knowledge, but spiritual or immortal man
is controlled by intelligence that promotes emanations of
energies of the character of the intelligence. This is the
reason body has been refined the last century of pro-
gressed intelligence and controlled will, on the part of an
advancing group; this progression calling into action
higher healing systems.
Nerves are divided into two systems, the sympathetic
and the nervous. The nervous system corresponds to the
individual, the sympathetic system to the universal. The
sympathetic can be likened to communities, states, na-
tions, having certain plexuses of power, by which a par-
ticular group of consciousness is made to have common
interests. Nerves end in muscles, glands, etc., having
their system of nourishment through the blood vessels.
The spinal cord that attaches to the brain at the base of
the medulla oblongata is the great nerve center of the
organism, the distributing center of the body.
Osteopathy, especially relating to treatment of the
spinal column and the adjustments necessary to promote
the flow of nervous energy, came into existence as an
aid to advancing consciousness. All the higher healing
methods come into expression through the Law that is
promoting the destiny of man to an appointed goal, and
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 293
do not need to be sanctioned by men in adherence to
lesser healing systems. The repulsion felt by the old
school of medicine and religion toward the newer schools
of healing and intelligence, indicates the ignorance of the
old schools of the Plan of God and its adaptation to the
unfolding race; as well as proves their unfitness to care
for the advanced race. God, not man, is ruling the world,
though God rules by means of those attuned to the Prin-
ciples and Laws of Being.
Nerves are rhythmical in their emanations and are auto-
matic in function. The vibrations of nervous energy par-
take of the nature of the intelligence functioned that
prompts the sensations, though mental energies may par-
take of a low character of intelligence. People of a lower
state of advancement are subject to lower vibrational
energies, and diseases that infest their organisms are
also of a low nature. While there are no scientific laws
in relation to disease, it arising from the mind of the flesh
that is unscientific, yet, certain observations can be made
as respecting the advancement of the race; for a tree is
known by the fruit it bears. The reduction of disease
and its control, identified the last half-century, are due
to the higher mental advancement of the race, and the
introduction of corresponding advanced agents of healing.
The racial advancement indicates the sympathetic
nervous system. The tendency to coordinate the thought
of a national group, while objectified by the service of the
radio, has its inception from the unfolding Intelligence
that projects its Will to govern the race, as mortality
comes to cessation. A similar condition exists in the
universal body or race as exists in the individual organ-
ism. The sympathetic nervous system especially relates
to the racial advancement, affecting the entire race mind
through events of universal interest; bringing all to a
common intelligence outwardly, by which a common inner
Intelligence can project its authority into the race mind.
If the wild ducks and geese are governed by a Spirit that
relates to the group, so as to seek a warmer climate in
winter, we can be assured there is a Spirit that controls
294 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the racial group, leading it to a goal, foreordained before
the foundation of the world.
Nervous energy may be repressed or suppressed, caus-
ing many inharmonies of body, soul, and mind. Thought
and word are means by which energies, generated on the
underside of consciousness, are given expression. If one
thinks much and does not express the thoughts, one pro-
motes the psychic plane of consciousness and becomes
involved in the negation of one's own progression. Un-
controlled thought subconsciously generates energies into
the organism, promoting disorder and inharmony,
whether the thought be pleasant or not. The world of
pleasant thought may be a very greedy and limited one,
and its effect in the organism is of a similar nature. The
good thoughts symbolize the realm of Heaven that is
within consciousness; though Heaven is more than nat-
ural goodness, it being a realm of scientific Principles
governing the life of man, so as to control the earth or
formed plane when will is united with understanding.
More energy is wasted on the unformed plane of con-
sciousness than is ever expended in constructive living.
Worlds are built and laid waste by the forces of uncon-
trolled thought. The organism of man reflects this waste-
ful expenditure of thought, and the nervous system be-
comes the carrier of forces of negation and destruction
that finally infest bodies with pain and disorder. The
control of thought is a fundamental toward constructive
living, but the subjection of thought to scientific Prin- ·
ciples, governing the Life, is to make every ego a master-
builder; a servant of the Divine Intelligence that uses
such a consciousness to enlighten the race mind, toward
the establishment of the kingdom of Heaven in the earth.
The nervous system more closely touches the plane of
mind than any other part of the consciousness of man. It
is the connecting link between earth, the formed bodily
plane, and heaven, the plane of unformed Intelligence
and its energies. The nervous system can be undermined
by worry, anxiety, and other destructive forces of thought;
as well as be threatened with collapse by uncontrolled
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 295
emotions and actions. Sexual indulgences are especially
devitalizing to the nervous system, because men and
women are not mated in their forces; they being unable to
mate with each other in constructive body building, until
each has mated the male and female forces of the indi-
vidual organism. Uncongenial connubial conjunctions
are promotive of mental and physical inharmony, though
mortal men and women will never find more than animal
harmony in the sexual relations; and this eventually
comes to naught.
Righteous thought, word, and conduct, are means by
which nervous energy is constructively expressed. This
makes for harmony of the body, though this harmony is
not permanent; for the mortal body is not permanent in
nature. Energies must partake of the nature of Divine
Intelligence, and feelings of the quality of Love, if perma-
nent harmony is to be promoted; though this necessitates
the transition from the mortal to the immortal state. The
inharmony of the body is often incidental to the over-
throw of the mortal elements, and especially when mind
has mastered the material forces and has superseded them
with spiritual thought and feeling. Much of the healing
work the last half-century, that has been prompted by the
unfolding spiritual intelligence, has been for the purpose
of transposing the mortal to the immortal elements; by
which man may be spiritually born and identified in real-
ity of being. The healing current that attends the open-
ing of consciousness in spiritual understanding and love
does not project itself to make material men more com-
fortable, but for the purpose of subjecting the mortal to
the immortal, by which reality of being can be promoted.
Much of the suffering for the "Kingdom of Heaven's
sake," that relates to the physical organism is due to the
introduction of energies of a spiritual nature into the
consciousness. This is attended with the necessity of sub-
jecting the pain and inharmony that arise to the unfolding
spiritual intelligence, this superseding the mortal elements
with the immortal. Those who make this subjection
are later required to reconcile all healing systems to the
296 Spiritual Significance of the Body
unfolding Divine Intelligence, becoming servants by
which the Higher Powers introduce their energies into all
planes of the race; that healing systems may be annihi-
lated or advanced to higher planes of expression.
Nerves are in pairs and radiate and react from side to
side. They also cross so that the right side of the brain
controls the left side of the body, and vice versa. The
action of the nerves is comparable to the action of vibra-
tion on a violin string. First, there must be nervous
energy to express, second, a nervous center receptive to
it, and channels through which the nervous force can be
conducted to other areas, followed by muscular action
to exercise the energy. There must also be a brain center
to generate the nervous energy .that is disseminated to the
organism.
The function of nervous energy in the individual body
is a correspondence to the social body of the race. There
must be individual centers of generating mental energies,
people who receive the ideas generated, who in turn pass
the ideas along to other people, this reaching the outer
plane where the will of the people puts the ideas into
action, in service to the entire group. While this action
is taking place, a sympathetic current is set up in the
social body, so that many people are aware of the ideas
passed along without directly contacting them. This is
especially the case after the Light of Truth has shone in
the mind of man, and the Divine Laws have moved to
universalize the Qualities of Truth. This is the condition
at the ends of cycles when the consciousness of the race
is brought under the authority of Divine Will; because an
individual is divinely governed. The establishment of
individual government is the signal for the Divine Will
to make known the plan of government for all men, for
in God-Mind all are one.
The story of the nerves and their system of operation
is more significant of the mental system than of any other
part of the body. The desire to act upon knowledge per-
ceived must attend the unfolding mentality, this calling
into play the forces of the will that typify the muscular
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 297
system. The cutting-off of any portion of the brain area
is the cutting-off of the sensation in the corresponding
area of the body, this being called paralysis on the plane
of mortal mind; where the first Adam calls all activities
by names and promotes their erroneous forces. However,
the cutting-off of any part of the physical organism that
is not attended with the cutting-off of the brain area that
controlled it, leaves the brain energies to express in other
directions, often compensating the ego. Thus a blind
person may be especially sensitive in touch, or a deaf and
dumb person more sensitive as to sight.
The cutting-off of thought that one would not see mani-
fested is the capacity to change the nature of the substance
of the brain elements, giving rise to refined intelligence;
as well as refined energies that emanate by means of
nerves to produce more refined bodily organisms. Thought
and emotion, subjected to ideas and energies that relate
to spiritual intelligence, promote elements of a spiritual
nature, bringing the body under a different necessity as
to food, healing, exercises, etc. The new healing system
scientifically arises, as well as many other aids to promote
harmonious living, but many resent this intrusion of the
Divine Intelligence, even attempting to prevent the prac-
tice of healing systems that have come into existence
through the unfolded intelligence of Mind.
Sensitivity is especially promoted when egos subject
the lower forces of thought and feeling and generate the
intelligence and feeling of spiritual ideas. The opening
of consciousness, however, to the forces of the world that
this step of unfoldment permits, is the opportunity to take
mastery and dominion over them, and to establish im-
munity. When one is governed by spiritual intelligence,
so as not to respond to the forces of the world, immunity
is identified. When immunity is identified, one is opened
to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven, by
which the inner Principles unfold the reality of being.
This is not to say that one is not subject to emotions and
feelings of pain and pleasure, for certain influences press
upon the ego so long as remnants of mortality remain,
298 Spiritual Significance of the Body
but that one is not inwardly moved by the outer conflicts.
One so positioned is also greatly protected from the ad-
verse forces, and if they must yet be met, it is done in a
higher spirit of Wisdom and Love, by which the Laws of
God are enabled to dominate the forces of the flesh.
Immunity is attended with capacity to feel deeply the
qualities of the Spirit, though one is greatly closed from
the feelings of the flesh. One immune to the forces of the
flesh is sensitive to the things of the Spirit. This appar-
ently cold state of consciousness is fraught with more love
and wisdom than mortals can project, while yet controlled
to the sensations of the flesh. One ego, subjecting the
forces of mortality to the inner Laws of the Spirit, can be
used by which the inner Laws subject the forces of mor-
tality in the entire race : this is the opportunity of the
Power of God to rule the race and bring it to its goal,
when the powers of the world have been overcome. Con-
scious centers of cooperation are necessary, however, in
order to let the Will of God be done in the physical
domain as it is in the domain of the spiritual; and these
are found among the spiritually progressing.
One must consciously take dominion over the mind and
love of the flesh to attain sensitivity to the spiritual. One
cannot serve two masters, looking in the direction of the
Spirit and of the flesh, but must discriminate between
the two, offsetting the fleshly with the spiritual; thus be-
coming a center of God and Christ by which the Qualities
of Being are projected into the race. Consciousness,
opened in Christ, is the microcosm, the brain center of
the Creator, the Macrocosm, and is comparable to the brain
of the individual organism, by which the nervous energies
are disseminated to the entire body. Each in the race
receives from this Great Brain Center of Christ Con-
sciousness according to his or her capacity; the qualities
received becoming the measuring rod by which the entire
consciousness is judged, as to whether it conforms to the
Divine Will and its Qualities. This dissemination takes
place at the ends of cycles, this being the probationary
period of the race's advancement, in which the forces
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 299
formed are unformed; and the Qualities of the unformed
are manifested as new expressions of spirit and body.
One cannot be immune until one has been greatly
moved. One cannot cease to feel the forces of the world
until they have been consciously felt. The mental pro-
gression enables consciousn~ss to feel deeply, though also
offers some protection to the unfolding ego. When the
material world is understood the spiritual is opened, and
immunity to the fleshly forces is compensated with capac-
ity to feel deeply the things of the Spirit. This feeling,
coupled with the unfolding intelligences of the Spirit,
project corresponding energies into the organism, caus-
ing a transformation of the body that is one with the re-
newed mind. Immunity is superseded by understanding
and sympathy gives way to compassion.
All personalities are sensitive and self-centered. Im-
personality is promoted as intelligence advances, this giv-
ing rise to sympathy and understanding. Understanding
the forces of the material existence and controlling the
I, lead to mental perceptions of inner governing Laws,
this opening the consciousness to know -itself as it is, and
as it is to be. This is the point where sensitiveness is over-
come with immunity, for it is the point of the conflict
between the spiritual light that is unfolding and the mate-
rial forces of darkness that invade the consciousness.
When one is not disturbed by any of the lies of mortal
mind, and can supersede them with the Light of Truth,
one is a controller of the energies that invade the organ-
ism, and can enter into greater harmony.
When the movement of God has been identified, called
the "coming of Christ," the race is coordinated, like the
organism of the body is coordinated through the sympa-
thetic system; so that all react to the forces used to pro-
gress the race. This sympathetic current of projection,
centered to Christ Consciousness, the Great Brain center,
reduces the entire race to a common woe, at the same time
upholding common standards of righteousness and truth.
When a cycle of progression is proven, each receives
what is necessary to determine his or her goal of attain-
300 Spiritual Significance of the Body
ment. Life is measured by what man is, not by what he
has, and the taking away of what he has materially is for
the purpose of determining what he is. All people must
be proven fit or unfit to pass to the Order of Immortality
that follows the cessation of mortality. The change from
the mortal to the immortal order is attended with changes
on all planes of progression.
The fruit of all progression piles up at the ends of
cycles, both spiritually and materially, this providing the
necessary duality by which the Laws of God operate to
generate the substance-energies of the new state of being
that is to be manifested. However, the duality only fur-
nishes the energies of form, in essence or substance, for
the spirit-qualities to be formed are emanated from the
Great Brain Center of the race; all people being affected
by this movement of God, like the members of the or-
ganism are affected by the nervous system. Those who
make up the first-fruits of God, coordinated as a particular
and elect group, are so united that the joy and sorrow of
one is the joy and sorrow of all. These are the many
members of the Christ Body.
The body, when conformed to Divine Laws, will not be
subject to sensations, as is the mortal organism, but it
will be subject to the ecstasies that emanate from the
heavenly plane within the consciousness, all the organism
being transformed in character. The righteous body will
be white, like a dead man, though having the coloring
of beauty of face. This body is brought into manifesta-
tion through the Law of spiritual birth, operative from
Christ, and will not be subject to the sensations of the
world. This is the body that will not suffer, and which
will embody a consciousness that is freed from tears,
sorrow, and death. The chemical nature of man will be so
c;:hanged, that consciousness will respond only to the
heavenly qualities of Being. The soul, not the nerves of
the flesh, will be the seat of feeling; and, being united with
the Spirit, consciousness will feel that which makes for
harmony.
The nerves are more directly susceptible to the energies
Nerves: Sensitiveness and Humility 301
of thought and feeling than any other part of the organ-
ism. People should develop a poised and understanding
outlook of life, if they would promote natural harmony.
Nervousness may be induced by acidity or infection that
invade the organism, or by mental anxiety about impend-
ing discords, or about things that have not happened.
Sleeplessness has been traced to deficiency of nerves and
lack of proper nourishment. Emotional mania, induced
through sexual thought and desire, or through religious
fanaticism, is especially devitalizing, not only to the body,
but to the spirit, soul, and mind as well. Since the nerves
more directly relate to the unfolding intelligence, and its
proper expression, all mental advancement that forces
self-control is promotive of greater harmony to the natural
man.
The spiritual advancement is distinctive, as to forces
involved, and can best be promoted when the natural
forces are controlled to the I. Otherwise, the stimulation
of energies of higher intelligence induces psychic com-
motion and leads to greater darkness. The spiritual is
always the actual of the spiritual intelligence, though
many people erroneously consider the mental perceptions
of the things of the Spirit as the spiritual. When the
spiritual is seen as the actual adaptation to the conscious-
ness of the ideas and Principles made known from the
Mind of the Spirit, the natural will be controlled to permit
the action of the spiritual; and consciousness will progress
in a well-balanced and rational manner. The spiritual
makes for better citizenship, for it brings consciousness
under the government of the inner Laws of Being, and
enables it to project a higher energy into the race mind,
leading to enlightenment and harmony.
The white matter of nerves pertains to the pure energies
that are to be liberated through spiritual thought, while
the grey matter signifies the neutrality to be gained on
the plane of the natural. Neutrality leads to immunity,
though great sensitiveness is quickened in the conflict of
subjecting the material forces to the unfolding spiritual.
The whole nervous system typifies the subtle, invisible
302 Spiritual Significance of the Body
forces that continually beset the consciousness of man;
though unless they identify either pain or pleasure, one
may be greatly unconscious of them, until opened to know
the Spirit of Life and led to bring all the forces into con-
scious activity for transition, or for annihilation.
MEDITATION
I am immune to all adverse forces of thought and feel-
ing, being established in the controlling qualities of the
Spirit.
I am coordinated to the inner Laws of Being, and estab-
lished in natural harmony.
I am established in poise, peace, and confidence; able
to control thought and feeling.
BONES: SUBSTANCE AND REALITY
B
ONES are the framework of the body. They give
bodily outline ;:i.nd support to the uprightness of
the figure. They are comparable to the principles
upon which formed things rest, as principles back of
inventions, or the Principles underlying the Creation of
Man. The bodily organism is the constitution of man,
though it partakes of the nature o.f the underlying forces
of the consciousness. Bones typify the foundation upon
which one builds, and in relation to the body, support the
structure of-the organism.
Man is the building to be reared, though when properly
built is a temple of consciousness in which the Laws of
God can eternally reign. Man begins to lay the founda-
tion for this temple when he can consciously comprehend
the Laws of God governing his being. This is the temple,
not built with hands, referred to in scripture, in which
God can eternally abide and man with Him. This is the
body as it is to be, brought forth in keeping with the
Principles of Being. This body is built from substance,
and is the evidence of the reality of Man.
Bones consist greatly of inorganic matter, principally
calcium phosphate and lime, which are responsible for
their hardness and rigidity. It is not the intention of this
book to go into the analysis of the organism in detail,
nor 1:hat it shall be a physiology, this office being centered
to those of the medical profession who study the body.
The earthly matter of bones can be reduced to gelatin by
boiling it, many gelatins on the market being obtained in
this manner. There are vegetable gelatins, however, that
are more suited to the use of the vegetarian.
Bones have hollow centers, filled with marrow that is
yellow in long bones and red in short ones. Bones are
ossified or calcified membranes, ossified cartilages. This
ossification takes place in the formation of the body in
the wombs of women, signifying the formation of the
invisible forces that build Man as the framework of the
[303]
304 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Creative Plan. Man is not bones, muscles, or nerves, but
consciousness of Being, when formed. However, man is
not formed in reality in the wombs of women, but is only
given outline of form and symbolical organism, in which
consciousness may be identified and progressed. It is
spiritual birth that produces Man, and spiritual birth is
the result of processes of spiritual laws and ideas applied
to the consciousness; when it is intelligent enough and
established enough in love of the inner Principles to
permit it.
Bones are more pliable at birth, some of the bony struc-
tures retaining their cartilaginous characteristics, like the
"soft spot" of the head of new-born babes. This "soft
spot" signifies the entrance of the Spirit of Life; though
it is the I, the self-spirit that inhabits the organism born
from the wombs of women. When the I is in control of
the material forces, and is opened to the ·spiritual, the
spiritual unfoldment of the ego may begin at an early
age; or he or she may have command over the forces of
consciousness before birth when conscious aliveness per-
mits. Egos born into the world are the unfolding quali-
ties and forces of consciousness that have always been
progressing in the race, hence, a new-born babe may be
an old soul, and ready for superadvancement when ma-
turity of consciousness is again identified. It does not
always require maturity to reveal the superqualities of
children, especially when their expression is not depend-
ent upon the bodily organism, as musical and mental
genius conveys.
Bones increase in size by growing at the ends. Calcium,
one of the major elements of the bones, is found in milk,
hence the necessity of the youth having plenty of milk
during their growing years. The size of the bones char-
acterizes shape. Shape is comparable to space, while
growth from childhood to maturity is compar'able to time.
Both time and space relate to the bodily ·attainments,
though the attainment of the spiritual state of being
brings both time and space into control of the I AM, or
ego conscious of Truth.
Bones: Substance and Reality 305
Bones signify the substantiality of consciousness that
is necessary to give proper outline and form to man. The
substance of the Creation has its symbolical representa-
tion as bones, but its reality is in the consciously gained
Wisdom and Love that partake of the nature of Spirit.
Reality is not in form, though outline of form of man
reflects its eternality, when that outline is perfectly estab-
lished. Reality is in the essences of consciousness gained
through realizing the Principles and Laws of God, govern-
ing the being of man. Reality is the ideality applied to the
life and made a part of one's being, through consciously
promoted intelligence and love.
Substance is more than substantiality of character,
though the natural must be progressed to a certain point
before the spiritual unfoldment can begin. Substantiality
of character must be gained by the self-consciousness,
through subjecting all the forces of thought, feeling, and
action, to the I, so as to be master of oneself. When the
natural is controlled to the I, the I will be opened to know
the spiritual that underlies the natural, and be ready to
control itself to the I AM, or center of the Spirit within
the consciousness. Thus substantiality of character, pro-
moted on the natural plane, prepares the consciousness
to enter into substance, the spiritual counterpart of nat-
ural substantiality. Substance is the essences of forces
gained through realizing the spiritual qualities on the
plane of living; through expressing the spiritual on the
planes of spirit, soul, mind, and body, in thoughts, words,
and actions that transcend the material.
Substance is the essence in which is the form of being
to be produced, when it is gained in its reality. It involves
the coordination of the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and
body in the Love of the Lord (Divine Principles and
Laws). The spirit of form is one with the essence of
substance, like the radish to be formed is in the radish
seed. The form of substance is gained through making
the spiritual ideas and qualities actual and real in the
life. This is to form the spiritual in life and· being, and
to give reality to one's consciousness.
306 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Life is the plane of form to the realm of the Spirit.
It is only when ideas, Principles, and Laws of the Spirit
are applied to the life, in living, that embodiment or form
is identified. Heaven and Earth, or Spirit and Body, are
one in Divine Law. For this reason, the thought of the
things of the Spirit is not the identification of the spirit-
ual; but the establishment in the life, through living, of
the qualities of spiritual thought, felt and realized, makes
actual the spiritual state of being. The spiritual is the
reality, and involves meeting the issues of the unreal,
the untruth, that have been promoted in mortality, by
which all outer forces are subjected to the Qualities of
the inner Spirit; this permitting the inner form or reality
to be substantialized.
The natural man is not substantial if he does not say
what he thinks, or do what he says he will do, for he
fails to enter into responsibility and righteous growth on
that plane. Neither is the spiritually progressing ego
spiritual if he or she does not say what is mentally per-
ceived of the Spirit, nor act in keeping with what is
thought to be known. Knowing is always a mental per-
ceiving, when issuing from the outer plane of conscious-
ness, but becomes being when that which is thought to
be known is applied to the life and the affairs. The
inventor may dream of an invention, but until the ideas
are made practical, and their uses identified in the lives
of men, there is no formed expression of the ideas. Even
so, dreaming of ideas of the Spirit, or mentally perceiv-
ing them, without conceiving them in the life so as to
embody their qualities, is to fail to form the ideas and
to fail to establish spirituality of being. Spirituality of
being is reality. Reality appears as Man. Man is ideal-
ized to be, in the Laws of Being, hence must conceive
himself as he is to be, and apply these conceptions to his
life to reproduce himself as God intended him to be.
Bones, signifying the substantiality of consciousness,
suggest reality of being. Bones are difficult to dissolve.
They lie irt the earth for hundreds of years, apparently
at one with the earthly elements. Bones, consisting of
Bones: Substance and Reality 307
earthly elements, have an affinity with the elements of
the soil (earth), preventing their decay and deterioration.
However, under certain conditions they are returnable
to dust or ashes, or to the mineral content. Dust is the
primal element from which man was taken, but when
spiritually interpreted, signifies the substance of the
Spirit; even as bones signify the substance of character
promoted by the natural man.
The Substance of Spirit presents itself to the conscious-
ness of man, first, on the mental plane. It is on this plane
that he or she tills the soil of himself or herself, entering
into the mental agitation by which man is freed from the
elements of mortality; and is returned to the substance
from whence he was taken. The funeral texts, centering
to man's relation to dust and his return to dust at death,
are offset when man dies to the material elements that
made him mortal, and is identified in the substance of
the Spirit, the basic dust from which immortality of being
is formed. When the mortal elements are offset, man
dies in the Lord, if he still must suffer dissolution of
elements and disorganization of functions.
Reality of being must be gained first in essence of Sub-
stance, but is present as the form to be brought forth from
the qualities of the Spirit. The qualities of the Spirit are
finally identified in consciousness as Wisdom and Love,
the union of these two being Truth. All the formed things
of the material world are first ideas in mind. Even so,
the spiritual ideas in mind contain within themselves the
forms to be brought forth. It is the dissemination of the
Qualities of Truth or Christ, at the second coming of
Christ, that prepares the forms of the immortals to be
brought forth; these forms existing in the Qualities of
Truth or Christ, like the radishes exist in the radish seeds,
not yet sown into the soil.
One established in the Qualities of Truth, through dying
to the elements of untruth, is ready for spiritual birth.
Spiritual birth is the movement of the inner Laws of
Being so as to form the substance-essence gained in reali-
zations of Truth, this formation being the reality of being,
308 Spiritual Significance of the Body
which is Man at his appearance. Man is not born through
the sexual law, but through the operation of Divine Laws;
nor is he born through the will of the flesh, nor of blood,
nor of the will of men, but through the Will of God. This
is a mystery only to those of material natures, who are
antagonistic to the spiritual Principles when they are pro-
jected into the world. Self-righteous religious bigots have
always profaned the Laws of God and made themselves
ridiculous by ignorantly holding to the old expressions
of God and disregarding the new and fuller expressions.
Reality issues from Truth. Truth includes the knowing
of the Principles and Laws of Being, through their appli-
cation to the consciousness; as well as an understanding
9f the untruth. When Truth is perceived in the mind, the
mind takes on the qualities of reality, rejecting the un-
realities as lies and errors. This rejection is in the cold
repulsion of the Laws of Truth and reduces the forces
of the lies and errors to nothingness. Reality is identified
on the plane of soul when feeling is conformed to intelli-
gence, and one is free from the enticements of sex sense.
The magnetic vibrations of sexual forces, while permitted
in animality of development, are without power or pres-
ence in the life of one unfolding the Qualities of Truth.
.Love is the reality of Truth identified on the plane of
the soul, so that feelings are constructive and serviceable
in promoting the real state of being. The magnetic vibra-
tions of sexual forces are as nothing in the presence of
Love. Love is always controlled by Wisdom, though
animality of consciousness, progressing in lack of sub-
stantiality of character, believes love to be something
that one does not control, and which expresses irrespec-
tive of judgment and reason. As a result of this asinine
idea, entertained by the best of people, adultery is multi-
plied and increased, because love is reduced to a sexual
thrill, and when it is burnt out, they seek other similar
relations that will promote other thrills of the flesh,
though often under the guise of marriage. Consciousness
should assume authority over its materially progressed
forces of thought and feeling and so prepare to enter into
Bones: Substance and Reality 309
Wisdom and Love of a real nature. Mortals, full of dead
men's bones, pervert the forces of life and love, failing to
clean up their iniquities, and then wonder why living
should bring them to woe and inharmony.
The last century has marked the distinction of the real-
ity from the unreality. The Divine Intelligence moved in
consciousness to promote the unfoldment of united
Wisdom and Love (Truth). Consciousness could not be
expected to comprehend the Truth at the early steps of
this unfoldment, hence, many erroneous conclusions have
been made as to matter, form, body, however much these
greater lies pointed toward a greater seeking after Truth.
Having developed in the lie throughout Time, mortals
need not be offended that higher material growth was
stimulated through the use of greater lies, for the lie
reaches its zenith at the same time that the Truth is made
known.
Truth reveals that the reality is the eternal. It is formed
from the substance of Spirit, revealed when understand-
ing and will cooperate toward making actual the spiritual
knowledges. Reality is the result of actuality, but this
actuality of the spiritual is within the consciousness, and
not in the world of material effects. The material is the
unreal that stands, until the Divine Laws transpose the
mortality of the race and planet to the character of the
immortal. Influences of the reality penetrate the outer
domain of body and affairs, but these cannot be freed
from the forces of unreality so long as mortality remains.
It is Christ, the Truth, that ushers in immortality and
frees the race and the planet from the elements of mor-
tality; though this is universally operative in relation to
the entire race, at a specific time, and is not alone an
individual attainment.
An individual must attain to Christ, the Truth, but this
attainment becomes the Throne of God through which
the universal outworking of the Plan of God is effected;
this bringing the entire race under the influences of the
Principles of immortality, already worked out. The
racial transformation is related to the transposition of
310 Spiritual Significance of the Body
individuals from the mortal to the immortal qualities,
but this is not in their own wills, but in the operation of
the Divine Will. The oneness of God attained, through
uniting Man and God, is inclusive of the allness of the
race, and universal in its scope of action. This action of
God is the "coming of Christ," the projection into the race
and the planet of the forces and Qualities of Being, for
their formation; and for the annihilation of the mortal
elements.
The foundation upon which man is to build is revealed
at the end of mortality. The Stone that the builders re-
jected becomes the head of the corner, according to scrip-
ture. If God did not intervene, through the operation of
its Universal Plan, mortals would attempt to build a new
order on the foundation of the old, and continue their
mortality indefinitely. The Foundation Stone is Christ,
called the "white stone" in Revelation, but Christ is not a
phantom of the skies, but realities of Being gained through
conforming spirit, soul, mind, and body to the unfolding
spiritual ideas and Principles. Christ is identified in con-
sciousness when the love of the flesh is absolutely over-
come with the Love of God. This is the necessity by which
the Stone, the builders of mortality rejected, becomes the
foundation for the building of the real man, and a system
of living compatible with the Divine Principles and Laws.
All that is changeable in mortality partakes of the un-
reality, though reality is not possible to mortality but is
a characteristic of the immortal nature. Change pertains
to the formed plane, but when consciousness builds on
the Foundation Stone of Truth (Christ), it will unfold
more of the Qualities of Being (God) without losing what
has been gained. This moving from "glory unto glory"
is the unfolding reality, for the fullness of the Principles
of Being is not revealed in a moment; but Man, when
identified in reality of being, is the ever-unfolding ex-
pression of these Principles. That which partakes of the
eternal nature is reality in the final sense of the word.
Heaven and earth, formed on the mortal plane of living,
pass away, because the spiritual perceptions of mortal
Bones: Substance and Reality 311
mind cannot be eternal, until conceived in living ways.
Unrealities consist of the forces of sense consciousness.
They may be facts of nature but are not truths of Being.
An unreality may be true, in contradistinction to the false,
but does not partake of the eternal nature. The reality
partakes of the substance-essence of Truth, the actuali-
zation in the consciousness of the Principles and Laws of
God being one with their knowing. Substance is the
essence gained in realizing Truth, but realizing Truth is
a living process that offsets the untruth. It is this conflict
of forces that brings the old man and his deeds to naught,
and establishes the new creature.
The combat of Truth and untruth involves the spirit
and the form, and results in the gaining of the reality of
the Qualities of the Spirit, as Truth; with the forms of
these Qualities contained in them, like the forms of fruits
are contained in the seeds that produced them. The
formation, in actuality, of the forms contained in the
Qualities of the Spirit, or Truth, is the universal action
of Divine Laws and Will, identified at the "coming of
Christ." However, only those capable of the union of the
spirit and the form, or the spirit and the body, can be
brought forth as the first-fruit of God and Christ. These
are the realities of being, the tangible result of the proc-
esses of Spirit, unfolded in the race from the beginning
of Time. This is the revelation of the new heaven (spirit)
and the new earth (body) in which righteousness can
dwell. Man, revealed in reality of being, is the bones
of Creation, the substantiality, the framework, upon
which will rest the fuller expression of the Plan of God
for the race. Man so revealed is the flesh of the Word, or
the Word made flesh.
MEDITATION
I am established in substantiality of character.
Truth now dissolves all unrealities and establishes man
in reality of being.
I am a new creature in Truth, having died to the un-
realities of mortality.
MUSCLES: EXERCISE AND WILL
M USCLES are the instruments of activity. Activity
is through the Will, hence the relation of
muscles to Will. Disciplined activity, with re-
creative purposes, is called Exercise. Muscles are grouped
as voluntary and involuntary, corresponding to the two-
fold nature of the Will; that controlled by intelligence
and that which exercises a control over intelligence. The
voluntary muscles are positive in nature and the invol-
untary are negative, the positive pertaining to the male
pole and the negative to the female pole of nature.
Muscles are the agents of activity and motion, relating to
the forces of life and form.
Life is the motion of the Qualities of Spirit on the plane
of the physical. Muscles are the means by which life is
promoted, hence, the primal tendency to think that man's
progression relates to the soil and labor by means of
muscles. Activity and motion are not alone confined to
the physical, for they also have their expression on the
plane of mind, soul, and spirit. Form is the outline con-
sciousness takes through life's expression. It is the tangi-
bility of forces progressed, though it has many aspects of
expression. There is form of government, of industry,
of finance, of education, and various other expressions
of form that are the result of activity on the plane of the
physical.
Primarily, form relates to the organism of man. It is
in this organism that life is functioned. Life is promotive
of vitality and energy on the plane of the body, the run-
ning down of these energies being the depletion of the
functioned life forces. It is not that life, in its reality, is
functioned in the mortal organism of man, but that the
reality has a symbolical expression in mortality. When
consciousness is conformed to the Divine Will, attained
through subjecting the forces of mortality to the I, and
the I to the Spirit of Life (Christ) within the conscious-
ness, the reality of Life appears.
[312]
Muscles: Exercise and Will 313
Muscles serve as agents of combustion to the vitali-
ties and energies developed in the organism of man
through processes of living. Changes in form are de-
veloped through the Will, when relating to the mental
and spiritual nature of man, and it can be concluded that
the physical changes the body is continually undergoing
directly relate to the muscles. The metabolism of the
system, pertaining to conversion of nutritive elements into
organic cellular substances, relates to the muscles. The
chemical processes continually going on in the organism,
by which vital energies are liberated to promote har-
monious function of organs, are dependent upon proper
activity. Fatigue that is excessive will poison the system,
affecting the muscles, indicating that proper activity of
organs is dependent upon muscles.
Activity, promoted in all directions, relates to the
muscles of the physical organism; though these have their
correspondences on the plane of spirit, soul, mind, and
body. While one would not speak of the muscles of mind
one would speak of its activity, this being the motion of
intelligence that underlies the motion of muscles. Pri-
marily, muscles have their identification from the Spirit,
that setting into activity the emanated intelligence and
love, caused to be formed in consciousness the soul, and
on the plane of the physical, the muscles of the body.
Spirit directly coordinates with the heart, the muscle of
circulation of blood; the blood being on the physical plane
the circulatory medium that corresponds to the emanat-
ing intelligence of the plane of the Spirit. The "flesh and
blood of the Spirit," of which one eating will gain eternal
life, are the Wisdom and Love of God; the circulating
essence-energy of Truth by which the flesh of the Word
is formed.
The processes of regeneration by which the will, de-
veloped in mortal consciousness, is subjected to the inner
Spirit or Divine Will, directly relate to the muscles, not
as to their outer expression but as to their inner. This
is proven by consciousness being thrown into greater
negation, even to desiring to become inactive on the plane
314 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of the physical. The running down of the mortal will
is accompanied with the running down of muscular ac-
tivity, though this is from the physical, respecting the
lack of action induced by consciousness being brought
to cessation of activity on all planes, to receive the influx
of the operation of the Divine Will.
Muscles give grace and beauty to the feminine organism
and strength and might to the masculine organism. Men
represent the active forces utilized in developing the
material world, therefore are endowed with natural
powers to. cope with conditions. Feats of endurance,
sports, games, and activities of a like nature, especially
developed in the race mind the last half-century, signify
the stimulated will that arises at the end of a cycle; for
all forces, developed in mortality must be brought to their
heights of power before they are brought to cessation.
However, it is on the plane of the soul that activity
reaches its zenith. This activity registers as adultery,
sexuality, graft, and debauchery, on one hand, but on the
other in a greater appreciation of beauty, art, and rec-
reation.
Muscles represent motion, and motion is the energy of
life of the natural man, therefore the life and health of
the mortal are dependent upon healthful muscles. This
gives rise to the demand for exercise, especially when the
physical activities of the race are superseded by the
mental. While exercise expresses in sports and other
forms of recreation, it has specific forms of expression in
training muscles. Exercise is stimulating to the organs
of the body, increasing circulation and elimination. Ex-
ercises for every part of the body have been worked out
and can be systematically applied. Exercise is a de-
veloper of the will to endure, to do, as well as a developer
of muscles. One can learn much about exercise by watch-
ing a baby. Its constant activity is the means by which
its health is promoted, and the spirit of play in which it
constantly exercises gives a clue to the spirit that should
characterize the exercises of the adult.
Exercise and diet make a wonderful combination in
Muscles: Exercise and Will 315
reconstructing the organism, when in a run-down condi-
tion, or in keeping fit the healthy. Add right thinking and
controlled feeling to this combination and the natural
man is well coordinated and healthful; but because some-
thing more is required of man than that he be a healthy
animal, one must also supersede the physical with spir-
itual understanding and energy, if one would gain genuine
harmony. It is always commendable to promote the phy-
sical well-being, but it is not commendable to neglect the
promotion of the spiritual well-being. When the two are
carried along together, one develops balance and prepares
the way for the within and the without to be one, or for
the union of God and man. Promoting the physical well-
being will give opportunity for freer spiritual expression,
while promoting the spiritual well-being will make for
greater physical harmony.
Exercising to music is a great harmonizer because of
the effect upon the feeling nature. Music without exercise
promotes harmonious tone of the body, and is especially
used in relation to the more disorganized states of con-
sciousness, such as the insane or abnormal. Rhythm of
tone is inherent in the soul and acts as a harmonizer to
the consciousness, therefore its appeal to those in a dis-
organized state is instinctive. Exercising is a great pro-
moter of the will. People lacking the will to exercise will
find that they lack the will to do many things, by which
a greater well-being might be promoted.
Will is not alone of the body. It is the doing power of
consciousness. It is supported by desire and determina-
tion, the powers of soul and mind to persist in doing what
should be done. Will applies to all departments of con-
sciousness. It is the power to think what one should and
not to think what one should not. Will is the power to
control the emotions, and to set into action the proper
feeling energies. It is the capacity to do on the plane of
the body, as well as to not do. Will is the impetus of
being on the plane ·of the spirit, that gives character to
one's unfoldment. The development of the will on all
these planes of consciousness makes for more perfect
316 Spiritual Significance of the Body
muscle tone, and greater health. It is the doing power
that makes for being, though one will be in qualities of
body in keeping with the qualities of thought, feeling,
words, and motives. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he." Man in control of the will ceases to he a slave
to material forces and conditions, and becomes a com-
mander of the consciousness and the controller of destiny.
Voluntary muscles are under the direct control of the
will, and have their impetus of motion from the cerebro-
spinal nervous system. Involuntary muscles are under the
sympathetic nervous system. Every voluntary muscle is
counterparted by an involuntary one, this corresponding
to the conscious and the subconscious expressions, re-
spectively; or to the good and its counterparting evil, or
to the voluntary and involuntary expression of forces of
light and darkness. Darkness is an opponent against
which the forces of light pit themselves for the reproduc-
tion of their own qualities. This law of opposition runs
throughout nature. The tomato has the tomato worm, the
potato the potato hug, the dog the flea, the chicken the
lice, men the trials and temptations of evolving forces
of darkness, and Christ the antagonism of antichrist.
Some people attain to control of the involuntary
muscles, such as controlling the eyes, the ears, the breath-
ing, the heart, but this is not an evidence of a superior
will. All mental and emotional states affect the voluntary
muscular system, as well as the tone of the organs of the
body. Muscles contract and relax when normally func-
tioning. Relaxation, practiced in mental control, has a
harmonizing effect upon the muscles of the body and also
upon their tone. The tone of the body is greatly related
to muscular tone, though it is also affected by the emo-
tions and thoughts. The muscular tone is utilized in burn-
ing up the wastes of the body, therefore muscles directly
relate to the chemistry of the organism.
Will is one of the great lights, set in the firmament of
intelligence (Heaven) by the Creative Law. It is the
power to he, by which the Qualities of Being are coordi-
nated and revealed as Man, as he was created to he mani-
Muscles: Exercise and Will 317
fested. Man, properly coordinated is the expression of
God, this being the god-man. This is the man produced
through the function of Divine Will. The development of
the will of the natural man, by which one thinks, speaks,
and does that which makes for the highest good is that
which promotes the physical harmony, not only as re-
specting the environment, but also as respecting the
health. Harmonious will, properly expressed in all direc-
tions, promotes harmonious organism and proper co-
ordination of muscles and organs.
Will has its spiritual seat in the center front brain.
Will is coordinated with understanding, when righteously
expressing. Understanding is the identified intelligence
of the Creative Mind, when associated with spiritual be-
ing, though related to the natural man, it is a conglomera-
tion of the false and the true. Understanding, lived and
applied, promotes the body by means of developing will.
The energies of understanding and will are applied on the
plane of the body by means of muscles. Muscles are in
identification of organism what the will is in conscious-
ness. Healing of a nature greater than the system com-
mon to the purely material plane, is an inevitable result
of the more coordinated advancement of the conscious-
ness of man.
The motion and life of all organs are incidental to
muscles, both voluntary and involuntary, therefore har-
monious muscle tone is harmonious tone of the organs,
and vice versa. Because of this coordination, exercise is
a builder of health as well as a promoter of control by
means of will. A properly coordinated organism makes
the promotion of the qualities of mind and spirit more
natural; though lack of coordination necessitates seeking
aid of a Higher Power, this inviting int1uences that auto-
matically offset or control the inharmonious forces, when
an all-around development permits.
The development of the muscles of the physical organ-
ism stimulates the development of the powers of mind,
spirit, and soul. This is to say that the promotion of
faculties of motion and life in one direction reacts toward
318 Spiritual Significance of the Body
their promotion in all directions. Lack of doing power on
the plane of the physical is also lack of power to think on
the plane of mind, to feel on the plane of soul, and to
aspire on the plane of spirit. Thus the lack or plenty of
motive power in one department of consciousness has a
corresponding expression in alll departments.
Will is a faculty of consciousness and directly relates
to the body, for body is the organism of motion and ac-
tivity, by which consciousness promotes its qualities of
expression. Finally, when the departments of conscious-
ness, viz., spirit, soul, mind, and body have been co-
ordinated, man becomes the Will to do what is required,
by which the real state of being is manifested. In other
words, the Will of God is man redeemed from the self-
will, self-thought, and self-love. The real state of being
is brought forth through the activity of the Divine Will,
but consciousness, controlled in its powers, is the Divine
Will expressing. This is to say that the motion and life of
the Divine is Man, spiritually controlled in the powers of
his consciousness. If this were not true, the Will of God
would be expressed on the plane of the physical, and har-
mony and eternal life manifested, independent of the
development of man; which is not the case.
Since Man is the Will of God, when properly identified
in qualities of being, he is the doing power, the power of
action. It is for this reason that the work of making con-
scious consciousness is given to him in the six days or
cycles of advancement, through which he labors to make
himself. The rest or Sabbath day, into which conscious-
ness enters when this is accomplished, is not cessation
of activity, but harmonious expression without self-effort.
Thus one can see the relation of a harmonious muscular
system to the real nature of man; for its expression is not
through self-effort but through a well-ordered system of
life and motion that has been established by a power
greater than man. Man can use the powers provided for
him, but he cannot make them; therefore, the making of
the real man is to use the powers and qualities already
provided through the Divine Laws and Will.
Muscles: Exercise and Will 319
The Will of God, done in earth or physical domain, as
it is in heaven or the realm of Principles, will establish
man in harmony of spirit, soul, mind, and body. It is to
develop faculties of consciousness, by which this harmony
is functioned, that man labors on the plane of mortal liv-
ing. All mortal progression that does not count toward
eternal gain is futile, however much it may have pro-
moted the material interests. One is involved in the forces
of the material world only that they may be mastered and
their offsetting spiritual qualities be gained. If one can
bring the will to bear upon the material conditions, with
the gaining of the spiritual in view, one takes the burden
of materiality off the body and lives so as to gain the
qualities of the Spirit. When the without is controlled to
the within, heaven comes into the earth. Heaven is har-
monious man, consciousness coordinated in spirit, soul,
mind, and body to the demands of Divine Will.
MEDITATION
I am obedient to the Divine Will and receptive to un-
derstanding.
I am glad to unfold the faculties of spirit, soul, mind,
and body, growing in grace and in truth.
I cultivate willingness to conform to what is known,
thereby promoting the will to be, and righteous being.
VEINS AND ARTERIES: PURITY AND
IMPURITY
THE Veins and Arteries are the two channels that
relate the heart to the entire organism. The veins
are the carriers of venous or impure blood, and
the arteries are the carriers of the arterial or pure blood.
The pure blood flows from the heart or center to the cir-
cumference, while the impure blood flows from the cir-
cumference to the center. The heart is significant of the
Mother Principle of Being, while the head or brain is the
seat of the Father Principle. The two, united as one, is
the Christ Consciousness, when spiritually interpreted.
The head is the seat of Wisdom, the heart is the seat of
Love, the union of the two identifying Truth, the reality
of Being.
The heart is comparable to the Christ Center of con-
sciousness, attained in the race, this becoming the Throne
of Divine Laws and Power. The purities of the Christ-
Qualities flow from Christ Consciousness to the circum~
ference or the body of the race, this opening the door for
the impurities or racial forces to flow back to Center.
This cross of forces precipitates the conflict of the spirit
of Christ and antichrist, which is identified as the "War
in Heaven," at the end of mortality. This is a universal
operation of Divine Laws by which the race is purified,
and advanced to its next step of progression; though it
necessitates that the Pure One be mixed with the forces
of the world and the impurities annihilated.
The heart of consciousness is not the physical organ,
but the Spirit of Divine Love identified in an ego who has
overcome the love of the flesh. It is the center from which
forces and qualities flow, comparable to the flow of the
blood from the organic heart. It is the functional point
of the Blood of Christ and its circulation in the race to
accomplish its regeneration; and the spiritual birth and
formation of those who partake of the Christ Qualities.
It is written that out of the heart proceedeth bitterness,
[320]
Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity 321
strife, wickedness, hate; or that which is lovely and good.
A good tree brings forth good fruit while an evil tree
brings forth bitter fruit. Even so, a consciousness is in
the dominancy of good or evil, though one attained to
Truth (Christ) is in the control of both, therefore is given
all power in heaven (spiritual plane) and in earth (physi-
cal plane).
The likening of the going forth of the Christ Qualities
to that of the flesh and blood of the embodied Christ con-
sciousness is not without sublime significance. Christ
Qualities are gained through overcoming the love of the
flesh, which is to identify the blood of the new being,
blood signifying the spirit of life. The spirit of life, when
spiritually identified, is Christ, the Spirit of God gained
in Man. This is "God with us," the Divine Love, which is
the hope of bodily redemption. Blood is fraught with
great power, it having the capacity to cause to be formed
the organism of man; though the Blood of the Spirit as
Divine Love fashions spiritual man, through the proc-
esses of spiritual birth. Bodily redemption is the result
of the formation of the substance-essence, gained through
realizations of Truth, this being the flesh of the Word,
identified in the law of spiritual birth.
The door that opens and none can close, and which
closeth and none can open, referred to in scripture, is
Christ. "I am the Door." All who enter into the reality
of being enter by this Door. Those who attempt to climb
up some other way are called "thieves and robbers." Since
man is the embodiment of the Word, the Word made
flesh, when revealed in reality, the processes by which the
new creature is formed take place in the organism of
man; and partake of the spiritual rather than of the
physical elements. The physical is the earthly of the
heavenly, and is not the material that is formed through
actualizing in the life the untruths and unrealities, quick-
ened by the sensations of the fleshly nature.
It is the Christ Qualities that are mingled with the life
of the race, in an action of Divine Love, that makes it
possible for those receiving to enter into everlasting life.
322 Spiritual Significance of the Body
Everlasting life characterizes reality of being. The going
forth of the arterial blood to nourish the bodily organ-
ism is comparable to the going forth of the purity of
Truth to nourish and sustain the unfolding spiritual con-
sciousness; by which those able to receive the Qualities
of Being may become children of God. The children of
God are born from the fulfilled action of Divine Love,
identified as the Mother Principle of God, at the end of
mortality.
The projection of the impurities of the organism, as the
venous blood, toward the heart or central throne of the
body, is comparable to the giving of the Love (blood) of
Christ for the life of the race, that the impurities may
be gathered and dealt with in the Laws of God. It is
comparable to sowing Christ, that is without sin, into the
sinful forces of the race, that tlhe forces of sin might be
brought into subjection to the forces of Truth. This mix-
ing of the pure blood with the impurities of the organism
promotes the life of the individual organism, even as the
mixing of the pure Blood of Christ with the impurities of
the race promotes the life of the race. However, the mix-
ture has for its goal the gathering out of its own fruit,
by which those having the Qualities of Being may be
revealed as the first-fruit of God, or as redeemed states
of being.
The impure forces of blood typify Satan, the pure forces
Christ. Satan is lord of darkness, the chaos, while Christ
is the Lord of Light, or of cosmos. The lungs stand in
the position, in relation to the blood stream of the body,
of the consciousness itself, being the seat of the spirit of
life. Consciousness must rely, in the conflict of the oppos-
ing forces, upon the inspiration and expiration of the
Spirit, drawing to itself the qualities that relate to Truth,
and expelling them from itself so as to serve the race, and
at the same time be protected from the impurities. A
certain aspect of osmosis is present in the universal circu-
lation of the Blood of Christ, by which the Christ Quali-
ties are introduced into states of consciousness, without
their being consciously aware of it.
Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity 323
Christ consciousness includes the progressed forces of
God, Christ, and Man, as well as embraces the subjection
of the forces of the world, the flesh, and the devil, or
Satan. Thus, the projection of the Qualities from the
Christ Throne of Power is the capacity of all states of
consciousness to be subjected to the Laws of God govern-
ing the Christed ego. The subjection of consciousness to
Christ, and Christ to the Divine Will, is the automatic
subjection of all forces of the race and the planet to the
authority of the Divine Will; for the subjection of one is
the subjection of all in the Divine Mind, all being one at
this point. The heart, the seat of the circulation of the
blood, is comparable to the seat of Divine Love, which
Christ is. Divine Love is always united with Wisdom,
the two, as female and male, respectively, constituting the
authority of the Divine Law to reproduce the spiritual
states of being.
If there are any obstructions in the organism to the
circulation of the blood, and to perfect balance between
the purities and impurities, a condition of inharmony pre-
vails. This is also the case when consciousness is ob-
structed from the perfect circulation of the Blood of the
Word. This is referred to in the "last days" as the "blood
of the Lamb." The Lamb characterizes the divine inno-
cence of consciousness, when identified in Christ or Truth;
the overcoming of the errors with Truth having estab-
lished consciousness in the reality of being that makes
the outer world unreal and unknown. Even as disaster
occurs in the individual organism when obstructions im-
pede the circulation of the blood, disasters also occur in
the race at the ends of cycles, when obstructions prevent
the free circulation of the Blood of Christ; by which con-
sciousness is regenerated and passed to a new order of
advancement.
Purity is one with the consciousness of Truth. Impurity
is the untruth that is also known when purity is gained.
Purity and impurity work together, even as the venous
and arterial aspects of the circulation proceed as one,
each serving the other. But, in relation to conscious pro-
32-
1 Spiritual Significance of the Body
gression, impurity is known when purity is gained, though
mortals thinking they know imipurity turn away from it
to seek after purity; but this is only a symbolical step
of progression. Impurities are opened in the conscious-
ness as the hidden forces of hell, over which Satan is
lord, but this does not occur until the supremacy of Truth
or Christ is set up. When life is identified, through the
conscious attainment of the Love of God, death is un-
covered and the forces of hell must be met. This is the
"second death" which cannot prevail against the ego, and
of which he will not be hurt. It is written that Christ has
the "keys to Hell and Death," and being the Door, is that
by which the purities of the Word flow toward circum-
ference, and the impurities of hell and death flow toward
Center for their annihilation.
The circulation of the blood from the heart to circum-
ference is also likened to the economical system, with
money as a symbol of the blood. The free circulation of
money means the material progression of all people, while
the obstruction of this circulation precipitates panics and
financial disasters. It is not until the righteous govern-
ment, that rests upon the responsibility of Christ or Truth,
is identified, that finances will flow in an unobstructed
circulation throughout the governmental body. However,
it will be credit that will flow and not moneys, for it is
the spirit of circulation that must be right before the
bodily welfare of the organism of the race can be pro-
moted. The material forms of government partake of
the materiality of the nature of man, and cannot be of any
higher advancement than is the progression of the citi-
zenry that make up the national group.
The sun of the universe can he likened to the heart of
the universal life, the Son of Christ consciousness. It is
that which sheds light and heat to the race and the uni-
verse, but it cannot take any cognizance of plots of ground
that are obstructed from receiving the sun's rays. The
Son, or Christ consciousness, is the Light of the world,
but those who are obstructed from receiving its redemp-
tive rays must uncover themselves. While the Will of
Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity 325
God is done in the earth, only those receive the action
of this Will who have subjected their forces to their
own will, and in turn subjected the will and understand-
ing of the mortal nature to the Wisdom and Love of the
Spirit.
The pure blood is made impure, in the circulation of
the blood, and the impure is made pure, though conjunc-
tion with the oxygen of the lungs, typifying the purity of
spirit, is essential to complete the transformation from
impurity to purity. It may appear that in the universal
circulation of the Purity of Christ in the race that it is
lost in the impurity, but this is not the case. That which
is pure in Truth is never less than itself, though it may
be submerged in the impurities of the race. It is in rela-
tion to Truth that the supreme paradoxes are uncovered,
and this is one of them; that he that is without sin is
made to be sin for the life of the world, yet, does not
enter into sin. This is comprehended in relation to an
ego, in the supremacy of good, being made to deal with
evil forces, but this does not destroy the goodness which
is genuinely established.
Purity is comparable to light, impurity to darkness.
The Light of Truth is not the light that complements
darkness, but issues from the Laws of Creation. The light
that polarizes with darkness is of the duality, and is not
pure light. This light is found on the mental plane of
advancement, where egos feel they know the Light of
Truth, when they are only dealing with the light that is
darkness. Truth is not known on the mental plane. It
may be perceived by the mentality, after it has made
itself known through being identified in an organism con-
formed to its Principles; but what is perceived must be
conceived in the life before it becomes actual and real.
Purity merges with Truth, but when gained in Truth
it is the understanding of Love, as a principle, which also
implies the understanding of the unprincipled aspects
of Love. It is not that the unprincipled aspects of Love
make up Love, but that for lack of words to convey the
righteous nature of Love, which is Principle of Being,
326 Spiritual Sigrzificance of the Body
contrast is made; thus contrasting the unprincipled forces
posing as Love with the genuine qualities of Love. The
adaptation of the language of men to the conveying of
the Principles of Truth is itself possible through the un-
derstanding of the Spirit, but the ideas must be spiritually
discerned to be genuinely understood; and not seen in
the literal, material sense of mortal mind.
The veins, relating to the impurities of blood, connect
with the right side of the heart while the arteries, relat-
ing to the purities, connect with the left side of the heart,
though the pulmonary artery that conveys impure blood
is a marked exception; symbolizing an exception that
exists in the circulation of the Blood of Christ. The left
pertains to the feminine, the right to the masculine. Blood
relates to the current of love, the life of the flesh being
the blood in which is the current of love promoted in sex
consciousness. The left is the negative, the inner plane,
the right is the positive, the outer plane. Men represent
the positive forces, on the plane of mortality, through
whom the impurities of the race are progressed. Women
represent the negative factors of mortality, and more
directly relate to the purities. These purities take form as
ideals and aspirations, though there is no genuine purity
of expression on the mortal plane. When immortality is
identified, men and women will be equal in their proc-
esses of progression, each standing complete in the Lord
or Divine Laws, though this necessitates establishment of
reality of being.
The circulation of the blood, by means of veins and
arteries, is aided by capillaries that give balance and
distribution. The circulation of the blood is first confined
to the lungs, the seat of spirit-life. This is called pul-
monary circulation. The circulation relating to the bodily
organism is called the systemic. Thus there is a central
system within a circumferential system, signifying the
universal Plan of God, with Christ as a central system;
and those who are Christ's and the racial forces, as the
circumferential system. The circulation of the Christ
Qualities, with which are the Man qualities, is from the
Veins and Arteries: Purity and Impurity 327
Center, to the entire organism of the race; those in the
race directly relating to Christ receiving the spiritual
result, and others of the race the physical result, of the
universal circulation of the Blood of Christ.
The portal circulation relates to the liver, the renal
circulation to the kidneys. The four aspects of circula-
tion suggest the four rivers of Genesis, that went out from
the central stream of the River of Life that flowed from
Eden. However, Eden is not in the mortal nature of man,
nor can the River of Life flow out to mortality, except in
the stepped-down processes incidental to the universal
circulation of Christ. The immortal is the beginning of
the spiritual unfoldment by which consciousness can be
restored to Eden and enabled to partake of its Source of
Being. Immortality is progressed through repulsing and
overcoming the forces of mortality, otherwise the Plan of
God could not be fulfilled among men. It is the stream of
Divine Love that flows in the garden of consciousness,
giving continuity of being without birth or death, when
the Divine Plan has fulfilled itself in the immortal nature
of man.
The walls of the arteries and the veins are composed
of three coats, comparable to the unfolding processes of
spirit, soul, and body that make up mind. Mind is con-
scious intelligence gained, but consciousness must be em-
bodied and certain processes of life work out before it
can know itself. When consciousness knows itself as it
is, it may know the being it is to be, and enter into its
unfoldment. Thus, the end of the natural man is self-
consciousness, at which point the spiritual man begins to
unfold. The mortal man is progressed in impurity, the
spiritual man is identified in purity. Purity is conscious-
ness, conformed to the Principles of Being, in which there
is no more impurity or anything that maketh a lie. This
is the redeemed state, that is, man spiritually born and
revealed in the reality of being. Spiritual birth must be
accomplished by Christ, in Father-Mother function, this
fulfilling itself at the second coming of Christ, at the end
of mortality.
328 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The gaining of purity, as the governing Principles of
being, necessitates the overcoming of the impurities. The
impurities embrace all forces of consciousness not con-
formed to Truth, regardless of how good they seem to
mortal sense. All that has been progressed by the self, on
the planes of spirit, soul, mind, and body is impure; there-
fore the necessity for this mortal to be changed to the
premise of immortality, before the Divine Laws can prop-
erly function to reproduce the Man, idealized in God-
Mind. The purities of being aggregate as Truth, while the
impurities aggregate as untruth. Untruth is made up of
the lies and delusions necessary to the development of
mortality. Truth when it is completed is a state of being.
I am the Truth. When I Am is identified, one is also the
Life and the Way, by which the Universal Circulation of
the Blood of Christ is set up in the race to advance it to
a New Order of progression.
MEDITATION
I rejoice in purity of spirit, soul, mind, and body.
The purifying Love of God is present in consciousness,
and I am free.
All sense of impurity is now overcome by purity, and I
am established in harmony and Truth.
GLANDS: PITUITARY, PINEAL, ADRENALS
T
HE glandular system is made up principally of
twelve glands. It constitutes the inner circulatory
system, making connection with the general organ-
ism by means of the blood. The twelve glands correspond
to the twelve centers of consciousness. Spiritually, the
twelve centers are identified as the twelve disciples that
centered to Christ in the first introduction of the Powers
of God into the race. The individual system of Life is
an epitome of the universal system, centered to God and
Christ. Therefore, the body includes not only the in-
dividual but the universal system; or that relating to the
self-ego and that relating to the race.
The Glands secrete a vital substance known as en-
docrine. The endocrines are picked up by the blood and
carried to every cell of the body, during which process
hormones are formed. Endocrines that have affinity for
each other, being male and female in balance, promote
hormones. The hormones formed stimulate the activity
of the secretory cells of the glands, thus reacting to each
other as Cause and Effect; as the brain and thought. The
brain is utilized to promote thought and the thought in
turn builds the character of the brain, even changing its
quality, texture, and size. The glands promote the en-
docrines that form the hormones, and the hormones in
turn stimulate the secretory cells of the glands to promote
endocrines. This perfect system of Cause and Effect being
equal to each other is the figure in the body of the relation
of God and Man, both being dependent upon each other
for perfect functioning.
The hormones stimulate the secretory cells of the glands
in proportion to their own nature, not being able to give
back to the cells more than they contain. This is similar
to the relation of God and Man. God can give to Man
only what Man can give to God, and if the balance of
Man is below par, that is, below the Standard set by
[329]
330 Spiritual Significance of the Body
God, the Laws of Being, in that degree the Laws of Being
fail to touch him. The law of balanced giving and re-
ceiving is the Law of Love, by which harmony is pro-
moted. This balanced condition could not be present in
the mortal organism of man; though consciousness can
attain to its mental comprehension and its spiritual out-
working in matters pertaining to God and Man on the
spiritual plane of advancement.
Hormones relate to the chemistry of the organism,
while endocrines relate to the constituents of the hor-
mones. Hormones are builders as well as promoters of
waste. This is to say, that the hormones select the ele-
ments needed to build tissue, or for metabolism, at the
same time relegating to the waste of the body that which
is not needed. They correspond to the I of the natural
plane, when identified in intelligence, that must adhere
to the good and reject the evil. Perfect balance in the
body is possible only through balanced male and female
potencies, and since mortals do not become so balanced,
it follows that they cannot have perfect health and func-
tioning. This leads to the discovery that people do not
live for what the material promotes but as an opportunity
to gain the spiritual, which alone can be balanced in male-
female potencies.
The spiritual is promoted through rejecting the mate-
rial, this inviting the identity of Christ, who then com-
mands the twelve centers of consciousness to produce
the reality of being. However, the material cannot be
rejected until it is known, therefore the necessity of reach-
ing heights of materialism in ages of progression, before
one is able to die to the self and enter into the unfold-
ment of the spiritual. Man identified in reality of being,
which the spiritual promotes, will not be sick, suffer, or
die; though a consummation of the spiritual reality in
physical actuality must be worked out by the Divine Laws,
at the end of mortality, to reveal the fruit of Christ's pro-
gression in consciousness.
The Pituitary gland is conceded to be the dominating
gland of the body. It is situated in the middle of the
Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals 331
sphenoid bone, and is attached to the infundibulum of
the brain. The sphenoid bone is made up of what is called
the greater and the lesser wings. The groove in the
sphenoid bone is called "Turkish saddle" because of its
shape. The name, pituitary, is derived from the word
pituita, the Latin for nasal mucous secretion. The ancients
believed that this gland was the cause of colds in the
head, and so named it. Now it is discovered to be the
controlling factor of the brain, as well as that of the entire
glandular system.
The Pituitary gland is subject to the influence of thought
and feeling. Distinct shocks, worry, and anxiety may
affect this gland so as to make its function deficient. On
the other hand, education and philosophical training may
increase its efficiency. Spiritual unfoldment, resting upon
that which transcends the activities of the mind and love
of the flesh, can so change its function as to open one
directly to the influence of the Kingdom of God within
the consciousness. The pituitary gland, representing the
function of Divine Love, the Great Mother, is the chief
factor in promoting the processes of spiritual birth and
the regeneration of the organism.
The Pituitary gland consists of two lobes, the anterior
and the posterior. It is the anterior lobe that is increased
in size by thought. It also follows that lack of thought
stimulation will cause the depreciation of this gland, this
accounting for fixity of progression and physical defi-
ciency. Thought is the stimulating factor of the glandular
system, through the function of the pituitary; for while
the glandular system is interior to the circulatory system,
it is exterior to the circulatory system of the Spirit within
the consciousness of man. The mental is the outer aspect
of the spiritual, but forms the connecting link with the
physical domain. The pituitary gland is the seat of in-
verted desire and intelligence in the mind of the mortal;
though reversal of thought that transforms the organism,
especially identifying the spiritual, will enlarge the pitui-
tary gland and stimulate the circulation of life through-
out the organism, effecting marked changes in the body.
332 Spiritual Significance of the Body
The anterior lobe of the pituitary gland secretes a
mucus which is called pituitrine, which is believed to
stimulate the growth of the bones and the skeleton of the
body. If this secretion is deficient fatty degeneration may
set in, accompanied with a running down of the vitality
of the organism. It has been formd that dwarfs have only
rudimentary pituitary glands, the glands never having
been developed. Giants have been found to be abnormal
in the action of the pituitary gland; though some physical
giants, as well as mental ones, are undisturbed in this
gland. Expansion of this gland may cause terrific head-
aches, despondencies, and depressions, but when stimu-
lated by spiritual advancement 1the expansion opens hid-
den powers and capacities that compensate for the suf-
fering experienced.
The posterior lobe of the pituitary gland consists of a
glassy substance that finds its way into the spinal fluid
and stimulates the nervous system. When the two lobes
of this gland are balanced, and the gland is also balanced
with the other glands with which it has direct affinity,
physical changes are at-one with the mental changes
induced by spiritual thought and controlled emotion. The
pituitrine furnishes tone to the involuntary muscles, and
through the coordinate glands has an effect upon the.
bladder, kidneys, and uterus. The injection of pituitrine
into the blood will raise the blood pressure and increase
the elimination of waste. It also regulates the salt content
of the blood upon which depends the electrical energy
of the system. As the thyroid gland regulates the iodine
in the system, so the pituitary gland regulates the salt in
the blood.
The Pituitary gland, because of the protection afforded
it by its location, has been called "Nature's darling."
However, since it is the seat of the mothering influences
of the body, and a functional point for the Feminine
Christ·Principle, as Divine Love, there may be other rea-
sons for this endearing term. Spiritually, the pituitary
gland is the seat of the generating love forces of conscious-
ness, that uniting with the blood, aid in bringing the
Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals 333
sexual seed life, generated in fleshly love, to cessation;
at the same time establishing the identity of the Christ
Seed, the Spirit of Divine Love that brings forth the child
of God (spiritual being) .
The expansion of the pituitary gland can affect the
skull, causing the bones to push out as though extended
by invisible hands. The author has had this experience,
having an entirely different shaped head than when un-
developed in thought and love of a spiritual nature. The
tendency to measure the skull, as an evidence of man's
advancement of intelligence in the ages of progression,
indicates the expectation that the skull is enlarged to
accommodate the developing brain. It follows, that when
the brain is developed by spiritual thought, that which it
took ages for the mortal man to accomplish can be estab-
lished in the operation of Divine Laws in a single life-
time. This necessitates, however, the change of mind
from the flesh to the Spirit, as well as the change of love,
for these are the potent factors that promote changed
physical organism.
There is a very close connection between the rhythm of
the body and the glands, especially the pituitary gland;
hence a close relationship exists between the sexual or-
gans and the pituitary gland. This is why an ego, enter-
ing the path of regeneration, by overcoming the fleshly
love, experiences the anguish and commotion in the skull
area inhabited by the pituitary gland. Golgotha, the point
of the crossing of the spiritualized qualities and their
emanations with the forces of the natural man, is inter-
preted "skull"; therefore the crossing out of the natural
man by which the spiritual man is gained is especially
connected with the changing brain and skull.
Emotions are the motions of energies, generated in the
brain through thought, therefore the control of thoughts
and emotions promotes the proper rhythm of the body
that establishes harmony of the organs. The principle of
individual completeness, that is, union of the male and
female qualities of consciousness so that there is no sense
of twoness, but only one, the twain, is the establishment
334 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of the proper rhythm of the body which is the circulation
of the current of Divine Love. Rhythm associated with
the expression of soul emotions, common to the animal
man, is a symbolical reflection on the plane of mortal
nature of the principle of Divine Harmony that will give
perfect rhythm to the spiritual state of being. The "jazz"
expression that manifested the last quarter of a century
was the fruit of the animal soul, the rhythm of progressed
sexuality set to corresponding musical tone.
Physically, it is thought that the lessening of the secre-
tion of the pituitary gland has a depreciating effect upon
the pancreas, causing diabetes. Masturbation has a very
devitalizing effect upon the pituitary gland and its relat-
ing group, as well as reducing the mentality and soul to
chaos and psychism. Mentally, the pituitary gland pro-
motes intellectual advancement and is itself benefited by
advanced intelligence. It is also a controller of actions,
the anterior lobe relating to the intellect, the posterior to
the will. Balance of the two poles means a philosophical
mind. Since these two poles of the gland affect the will
and the intellect, it follows that the mentality and the
actions will affect the character of the gland and its secre-
tion; for what is present as eJ!fect may be centered to
cause and produce a different effect. This signifies the
endless circle of reconstruction present in the operation
of the Divine Laws, in relation to God and Man, and Man
and God.
The Pineal gland is a small, cone shaped mass, located
in a tiny cave slightly behind and above the pituitary
gland. The pineal gland is three-fold in structure. It is
made up of cells similar to the retina of the eye, bearing
out the idea that it was once an eye. It has been called
the one eye, or the single eye. It is possible that when
man had only one eye, before the two were developed,
the pineal gland was the center of intelligence of a low
nature. The Single Eye is Christ Intelligence, the Light
of Divine Mind, in which there is no darkness at all;
because all duality is understood in relation to the under-
lying controlling Principles of Being. It is not a physical
Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals 335
organism, such as the eye is an organ of sight, but is Man,
him-herself, identified in reality of being, as the Body of
Light. This is the body of the fourth dimensional plane,
the body that knows no limitation of time or space.
The Pineal gland secretes an endocrine called pinealin.
This is secreted from cells other than those similar to the
retina of the eye which are now extinct in function. In
addition to these cells, there are others called "salts" or
"brain sand." These are the crystals that glow like light
in an advanced organism. They have been known to be
so brilliant as to make X-Ray of that part of the head
possible. It is claimed that the pineal gland expresses its
force in youth and then recedes, becoming almost atro-
phied. However, it has an influence upon the sexual
organs, and is active in relation to conception. If it is
disordered it produces a marked effect upon the organ-
ism. A boy of five, whose pineal gland began to grow
rapidly, looked and acted as if he were twelve or thirteen,
his voice changed and he took on the characteristics of
puberty; also showed interest in spiritual subjects and
conditions after death. However, he lived only four weeks
from the time of his illness that brought on the expansion
of the pineal gland. An autopsy showed there was a
tumor on the pineal gland; but it could be seen that the
gland had a marked effect upon the organism, promoting
maturity of thought and form.
The lack of the endocrine of the pineal gland will
cause a lack of development in the sexual organs. Many
subnormal people are discovered to be deficient in the
pineal gland endocrine, and can be greatly helped through
injecting this secretion. The prisons and reformatories,
the institutions for the insane and physically deficient,
could furnish ample opportunity for constructive glandu-
lar aid, if our doctors were established in sufficient un-
derstanding and humanitarianism to undertake this ser-
vice; and these institutions were freed from political and
financial domination. However, they would have to be
attended in this work of reconstruction by metaphysi-
cians, and those able to teach the unfolding egos lessons
336 Spiritual Significance of the Body
of thought and emotional control, as well as other les-
sons of Life that make for moral and mental character.
The Pineal gland or eye, smaller than the seed of a
cherry, has a rudimentary existence in some forms of
insects, giving them the bead like eye that has power
of vision; but in humans it has no power of vision, though,
until maturity, it is associated with the aspirations and
dreams of the unfolding consciousness, promoting ideal-
ism and developing ideals. The ancients thought it per-
tained to the soul, and when seen in relation to the dreams
of youth, it can he said to stimulate both mind and soul
to idealize what is later to be actualized in the life.
The Adrenals are three-cornered glands on the top of
each kidney, and are especially recognized by their yel-
lowish, fatty color. They are the glands of strength and
muscle tone, as has been proven over and over by those
who have given to the world the physical side of the
glandular system. Each gland is made up of two parts,
the cortex, meaning bark, and the medulla, meaning core.
There is no marked difference between the two parts, hut
there is a marked difference in their development, func-
tion, and chemistry. Removal of one of the glands will
reduce the strength so that one is fatigued in a short
time. However, strength is a quality of Being, and can be
promoted through mental persistency, even to influencing
the adrenal glands. One may become so in control men-
tally of the inner function of the organism, ·especially
related to the glandular system, as to produce conditions
entirely different from those common to the mortal plane
of progression. People have often been built into physical
strength by injecting the endocrine of the adrenals into
the system.
The endocrine of the adrenals exercises powerful in-
fluence over the endocrines of the spleen and lymphatics
in combating toxins. It also indirectly s.timulates the cir-
culation of the blood and the lymph. It is because of the
lack of the adrenal endocrine that people are bleeders.
All vertebraes possess adrenal glands. The cortex of these
glands vary with the size of the animal. The fighting
Glands: Pituitary, Pineal, Adrenals 337
animals have very wide adrenal cortex, while the timid
animal, like the rabbit, is conspicuous for its narrow strip
of cortex. This suggests the influence of these glands
toward promoting courage or fear. The secretions also
affect the quality of the skin, hair, and distribution of fat.
The adrenal cortex is closely associated with the sexual
function, and when interfered with changes the nature
of the sexes. Women may become masculine because of
over-stimulation of this gland, growing hair on the face;
though this may be from organic disturbances other than
from the cortex. Phosphorus is the characteristic chemi-
cal of the adrenals. The cortex takes on huge size during
pregnancy and controls the development of the brain of
the embryo. The pigments of the skin may be greatly
affected by the cortex. The adrenals also supply secre-
tion that regulates the conversion of chemicals and acids
into non-poisonous elements. Blood, with excessive acid-
ity, shows deformed or disturbed adrenal cortex.
The secretion of the medulla of the adrenals is called
adrenalin. There is about one hundred thousand times
as much adrenalin in reserve than present in the blood,
some one has written. Pain and excitement, fear or rage,
will bring about its discharge into the blood. This secre-
tion stimulates the action of the liver, the spleen, and the
blood, increasing the formation of red corpuscles. When
the supply of adrenalin is depleted sight is impaired, the
tone of the system is reduced, and the hands and feet
may be cold and bluish. Nervous prostration is often
traceable to deficient adrenals. Excessive adrenalin may
promote high blood pressure, masculinity of expression
in women, or make for strong and active women. The
adrenal glands relate intimately to the emotions, con-
trolled emotions meaning a more harm_onious expression
of these glands.
Endocrine relativity is the seat of health and harmony.
The endocrine exchange will alter the functioning of
glands, this being controlled by the mental and the soul
qualities. A criminal is one whose posterior pituitary is
developed and the anterior is being reduced, or is sub-
338 Spiritual Significance of the Body
normal, this giving will dominance over intelligence, pro-
moting action without thought control. Moral teaching,
coupled with mental and spiritual advancement, makes
for endocrine balance and normalcy.
MEDITATION
The influences of the Spirit promote harmony of or-
ganism.
I rejoice in balanced understanding and will, by which
order and balance are promoted.
The elements of the body are in perfect control and
coordination.
GLANDS: THYROID, PARA-THYROIDS,
THYMUS, PANCREAS
T
HERE are eleven glands peculiar to the male and
to the female, but in all there are twelve major
glands. The Liver and the Spleen, treated else-
where in this book, are the two greatest glands of the
system. The male has the pineal, pituitary, thyroid, para-
thyroids, thymus, liver, spleen, pancreas, adrenals, pros-
tate, ' and orchic, sometimes called gonad. · The female
has all these glands but substitutes for the prostate the
mammary, and for the orchic the ovarian.
The twelve glands correspond to the twelve signs of the
Zodiac and to the twelve centers of consciousness. As to
their endocrines, the glands objectify the heavenly sys-
tem, or spirit, and as to their hormones they objectify
the earthly system, or form. Heaven and earth are one
in the Divine Laws, representing the powers within the
consciousness and their emanating influences that form
the physical organism. The glands have their exchanges
through projection, reflecting the expressions of the
heavenly qualities in the direction of the race or earth.
The Thyroid gland is situated in the throat, with the
para-thyroids immediately below. The thyroid is called
the fiery gland because of its relation to the nervous sys-
tem. It is through connection with the posterior pituitary
gland that the thyroid becomes a stimulator of the nervous
system. The thyroid gland is a fat reducer when properly
balanced with the para-thyroids, the fat producer. Lack
of balance between these two glands produces excess fat,
or lack of fat, according to the one dominating the situa-
tion.
The Thyroid is a true ductless gland. It together with
the thymus, adrenals, and the spleen, has the greatest
effect upon the personality of the ego. The pituitary and
the pineal gland furnish the connecting link with the
spiritual consciousness of the ego. The mystics formerly
(339]
340 Spiritual Significance of the Body
treated the thyroid gland as the seat of the Word, the
Power of God. It is the power center, when related to the
twelve centers of consciousness. It is the disciple Philip,
mystically identified. The spiritual function of the thy-
roid gland apparently became extinct when the function
of the spleen was built up, the seat of power swinging
from the spiritual to the physical nature of man. It was
the Fire Principle of the Spirit that primarily centered
to the thyroid gland, this being opened in words that
convey the Qualities of the Spiirit", when consciousness
can function the Truth.
The Thyroid gland consists of two maroon colored
masses lying on either side of the trachea, near the larynx,
connected by a narrow strip of the same tissue called "the
isthmus." It has been thought that the thyroid gland was
once a primal sexual one, and it still has a marked effect
upon the sexual complex of the ego. When the sexual
complex is seen to be the life of the animal man in stages
of evolution, then it will be understood. When mortality
of consciousness became identified, the function of the
thyroid gland was lessened, for the Power of the Word
became dualized; the influences of the fire center, or
center of identification of the Word, passed to the spleen,
and the stimulation of the animal life was set up.
The endocrine of the thyroid gland is called thyroxin.
Its principal element is iodine. Hence, we have asso-
ciated with goiter, the enlargement of the thyroid gland,
the lack of iodine, though it is also thought to be the
result of lack of harmony in the coordinating glands. The
thyroid gland maintains the same balance of iodine in
the system as there is in sea water. The thyroid gland
regulates the heat energy. Each ego has a metabolic rate
of heat energy. Experiments have shown that less than
a grain of thyroxin, the endocrine of the thyroid, will
more than double the heat energy. The thyroid gland not
only controls the heat energy but it regulates its motion.
The endocrine of the thyroid is absolutely necessary to
the life of the organism, but it is a slow, vegetative energy,
with very little variety. Anemia, thought to be a disorder
Glands: Thyroid, Para-Thyroids, Thymus, Pancreas 341
of the blood, is as directly related to the thyroid as to the
spleen.
The thyroid endocrine influences the heat energy, bones,
muscles, fat, and the growth and development of the
brain. Where there is lack of thyroid endocrine one may
be very nervous, and at times in almost an unbalanced
state; though over-stimulation of the thyroid will react in
a similar manner, this affecting the pituitary gland also.
It is the thyroid gland that is very active at adolescence,
and which regulates the growth of the sexual organs,
though this is not without the influences of the particular
group to which it relates. The development of energy,
the capacity to be active on the physical plane, is through
the thyroid endocrine. A slow thyroid exchange means
sluggishness, indolence, accumulation of fat, and lack of
ambition.
The injection of thyroxin has to be considered in rela-
tion to the group, therefore is not given singly. If given
singly, it may stimulate the pituitary gland or inhibit its
action. Excessive stimulation of the posterior pituitary
lessens the activity of the anterior lobe, throwing out of
balance the harmony of the system, as it makes for de-
ficient intellect and will. It is thought that children inherit
only the tendencies of the glandular system from parents,
these influences registering according to the condition of
parents at conception. Since the glandular system is the
connecting link of the physical organism with the em-
bodying spirit, it is quite possible that inheritance has its
identification in relation to the glands and their condition.
The Para-thyroids inhibit and control, to a great ex-
tent, the irritating influences of the thyroid, holding it in
check and balance. They are sometimes embedded in the
body of the thyroid, or placed below, and slightly behind
the thyroid. They consist of four glands, two on each
side. It was formerly thought that they belonged to the
thyroid, but when the thyroid was removed and certain
functions relating to it continued, it was discovered that
the para-thyroids had a function of their own. It is inter-
esting to note that the thyroid, formerly identified as the
342 Spiritual Significance of the Body
seat of the Word, as the one, and the para-thyroids as
the four, are found together. These unite to form the
balance of the sense consciousness, though spiritually dis-
cerned, embrace the One of the beginning and the four
that are to characterize the finished consciousness.
The secretion of the para-thyroids is called parathyrin.
It is found to regulate the lime in the blood and the cells
which affect the growth and strud ure of the teeth; as well
as relating to coagulation of the blood. The para-thyroids
also assert an influence over the nervous system, for when
not functioning properly, patients have become convul-
sive and almost unmanageable. People who are very thin,
and not given to worrying, may J
oe so because of lack of
proper balance between the para-thyroids and the thyroid
gland.
Since the throat is the seat of Power, spiritually iden-
tified, and the thyroid gland was formerly the center of
the Word, the condition of the thyroid gland and the
para-thyroids is affected by mental and spiritual progres-
sion. The Word means to speak, and the seat of the voice
is in the locality of these glands. Especially, the speaking
of words endowed with life and power, as are words of
Truth, has an effect upon these glands; and in connec-
tion with the posterior pituitary, causes the nervous en-
ergy to become a refined channel for carrying the emana-
tions of the unfolding Spirit throughout the organism.
Regeneration, when it is set up, is a physical change from
the elements of mortality to the qualities of immortality,
and is greatly promoted through the balanced condition
of the glandular system.
The Thymus gland is located in the chest region, im-
mediately back of the sternum. It is a ductless gland and
especially responsible for the growth of the individual,
though it has expended its force by the time one has
reached maturity. However, it is stimulated by spiritual
love and functions the ecstasy of Divine Love. Situated
in the chest, behind the breast bone, it descends and covers
the upper part of the heart, overlapping the blood vessel
at the base of the heart. It is a brownish mass, and has
Glands: Thyroid, Para-Thyroids, Thymus, Pancreas 343
the appearance of a sweetbread. It is made up of many
cells in whorls of progression. These are called Hassall's
corpuscles, after the man who discovered them.
The Thymus particularly influences the adrenals, the
pineal, the thyroid, and the sex glands. A child has not
developed will, hence, its organism is cared for in a sys-
tem of Creation that supplies its needs without conscious
thought and effort. It is thought that the thymus gland
is a reservoir of stored up energies, drawn from parents,
who provide the essences of love that promote proper
chemistry of blood, until the desire nature of the child
is aroused to give proper stimulation to its nervous sys-
tem. The love of parents for a child provides invisible
substance to the child's body, and the glandular system.
Some children are born with enlarged thymus glands that
interfere with breathing. Doctors have used X-Ray to
offset this deformity. There may be an over-stimulation
of the gland through hereditary influences.
While the direct action of the thymus gland is expended
the first twenty-one years of life, it directly relating to
the growth of the child, in conjunction with other glands
it exerts an influence throughout the life. Spiritually, it
relates to the soul, and is regenerated through the trans-
formation of the love potencies. The thymus gland espe-
cially regulates the nutrition of the organism of the child.
A few weeks under-feeding will shrink the gland in an
infant, and the wasted bodies of children are greatly
traceable to lack of secretion from this gland. It was
discovered in France, that over four hundred idiotic chil-
dren with normal thyroids, did not have any thymus
glands. Idiocy is more often the result of adulterous and
debased sexual passions that invite a corresponding con-
sciousness into formation, than from abused use of knowl-
edge.
· The Thymus gland, when spiritually discerned, relates
to the soul and the unfolding forces of love. The soul
rests in the chest region, and is that by which feeling is
functioned. Feeling, in its spiritual expression, is spiritual
love. While the thymus gland pertains to the growth of
344 Spiritual Significance of the Body
the child on the physical plane, it also relates to the un-
folding child of God, that is, consciousness unfolding its
love in conformity to the Divine requirements. One spir-
itually unfolding may be quickened in the region of the
thymus gland, this being equivalent, when the processes
of spiritual birth are going on, to the quickening of the
foetus in the wombs of women. All these glands form
links in the path of spiritual unfoldment, their real func-
tion being quickened in consciousness transcending the
elements of animality of thought and feeling. On the
outer plane of living, it is the enell'gies of these glands, the
hormones, that exert influences over the physical organ·
ism.
The Pancreas relates to the digestive organs, as well as
to the intestinal secretions. The endocrine that aids in
the assimilation of sugar comes from what is called the
tail end of the pancreas, and not from the main body.
The secretion is called insulin. The pancreas is coordi-
nated with the adrenals. The pancreas is a large gland,
lying immediately back of the stomach, near the solar
plexus. The major part of the gland is employed in aid-
ing digestion through the pancreatic juice. It converts the
sugar that is stored up in the liver, though this is also
aided by the adrenals.
Diabetes is regarded as a disturbance of the adrenal-
pancreas-pituitary balance, though overwork, emotional
strain, and overeating have their influences in bringing
about this disorder. The pancreas promotes the sulphur
content of the chemistry of the system. Inactive pancreas
may affect the skin, producing brownish discolorations.
The pancreas seems to be purely physical in its func-
tion, relating to the natural man. Insulin, as an endocrine,
is used to offset the condition of diabetes. However, those
most efficient in practicing the use of hormones, declare
against specific hormones in cases of disorder, but com-
bine them according to the affinity of the glands relating.
Insulin, combined with adrenal hormone, and hepatic
from the liver, have been known to produce a harmon-
izing effect upon the entire system. The administering of
Glands: Thyroid, Para-Thyroids, Thymus, Pancreas 345
artificial endocrines, by mouth or injection, to offset de-
ficiencies is meeting with considerable success in condi-
tions that can be traced to lack of glandular balance.
Higher healing methods are revealed according to the
advancement of consciousness, and the need of the phys-
ical organism. It is not unlawful for one to connect with
these systems, even though mentally and spiritually pro-
gressing, since they are the result of this higher advance-
ment. The organism of mortality, so long as it remains,
is subjected in some respects to the laws of Caesar. Those
who are wise make friends with the enemies of Truth,
rather than antagonize themselves about the forces of
materiality; for the spirit of reconciliation is an evidence
of the actuality of Truth's unfoldment in the life. If
Christ Qualities can be projected toward the race, and
the consciousness of Christ crucified for this accomplish-
ment, inducing suffering and anguish, those who follow
after the Spirit may be brought to the necessity of con-
tacting the forces of mortality and mastering them.
There is no mastering without opportunity to master.
Lazarus died that the glory of God might be manifested,
indicating that outer calamities are also opportunities by
which the powers of God may make contact with their
forces so as to completely overthrow the material world.
This is accomplished by those endowed with spiritual
qualities contacting the forces of the world, and master-
ing them.
MEDITATION
I am established in the Power of the Spirit, expressing
in harmony and order.
The Principle of Divine Love mothers the conscious-
ness of man, revealing the reality of being.
I rejoice in the coordinated harmony of every organ
of the body.
GLANDS: MAMMARY, P.ROSTATE, ORCHIC,
OVARIAN
T
HE Mammary and Ovarian are glands common to
the female, while the Prostate and Orchic are com-
mon to the male. The mammary endocrine relates
to the mothering quality of women. It is particularly fem-
inine in nature and distinct in its function, characterizing
the capacity of women to nurse children. However, the
mammary endocrine is present regardless of mother-
hood. It particularly pertains to menstruation. When the
mammary endocrine is present, menstruation is always
harmonious; but when there is a lack of this secretion
menstruation is painful. The mammary glands have an
effect upon the nervous temperament of women, especially
at the time of menstruation.
The mammary endocrine has a harmonizing effect upon
the chemistry of the tissues of the body, as well as exerting
an influence upon the secretory cells of the ovaries. These
glands have an influence during conception, endowing off-
spring, when properly balanced, with active mammary
glands. They relate to the distribution of fat in women,
and have a tempering effect upon the thyroid gland. The
mammary relates to the figure of women, for without
sufficient mammary endocrine, women are flat-chested,
bony and irregular in figure, hollow in shoulders and
neck. A well proportioned figure in women is directly
traceable to the mothering qualities that relate to the
mammary glands.
Mammals are those that suckle their young. The human
mother is the highest expression of this function, but
maternity is not essential to the expression of the mother-
ing quality in.the body of women. The mothering quality
is the element of love that is innate in the consciousness,
and which is influenced by the development or lack of
love in the nature of the ego. Not all women who give
birth to children have the mothering quality, while many
(346]
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian 347
women who do not partake of the maternal or sexual
functions are endowed with an abundance of motherly
love qualities.
The mothering quality is from the mammary glands
that are located back of the breasts, when physically con-
sidered; though from the spiritual standpoint, it is the
quality of love that promotes the mothering nature of
women and the fathering nature of men. The mammary
glands form the network of the breasts; every gland
having its particular field in which it functions. Field is
a word used in the Creative Plan, "And no plant of the
field was yet in the earth." The field is that in which the.
inner quality functions before it is manifested as organ-
ism. The organism is the earth, but there is a physical
that conjoins with the spiritual in bringing the Qualities
of the Spirit into form. The glands, particularly, pertain
to the inner physical, asserting influences over the outer
body, and at the same time being influenced by the
progressing spirit of the ego. The glandular system is
the identification of the physical or formed plane that
issues from the Spirit of Life, embodying the Qualities
of the Spirit. It is this system that is depleted in the
processes of mortal living and to which cessation of life
can be traced.
The Spirit of Life, functioning on the natural plane, has
its expression through the glandular system that makes up
the spirit of the body; for, while the glandular system is
the form of the Spirit, it is the spirit of the outer form or
body. When the substance-energy of the organism is
depleted, and the glands no longer work in the field to
which they relate, age sets in and the organism becomes
devitalized, finally being reduced to cessation of activities
called death. The first glands running down disorder
their coordinate group, producing disorders that can be
traced to the organs relating. Contrariwise, the effort of
restoring youth centers to the glands, both men and
women having experienced temporary rejuvenation at
the hands of science.
The adrenals may run down, reducing physical strength,
348 Spiritual Significance of the Body
hut the mental alertness remains untouched. If the an-
terior pole of the pituitary is depleted by age, one may
become mentally deficient, though one may retain physi-
cal strength because the adrenals are untouched. Worry
is one of the greatest destroyers of the endocrine system,
wrecking the individual mentally and physically. Worry
lowers the endocrine exchange of the anterior pituitary,
the orchic, the adrenals, the thyroid, and if not checked
will result in permanent disfunctioning of the entire
endocrine system. Worry acts quickly and disastrously,
producing a cessation of endoc]['ine exchange.
The mental and the spiritual advancement that have
been promoted in the race the last century have given
people a truer comprehension of Life and man's responsi,
hilities; as well as taught him to rely upon the inner gov-
erning Laws for satisfaction and sustenance. This has
greatly offset the tendency to worry, even to projecting
to the race mind, that does not directly seek after the
knowledge of the Spirit, an optimistic tendency. All of
this advancement has aided in offsetting the appearance
of age, and in promoting a better condition of health. It
is not in years that one grows old hut it is what one thinks,
feels, and does that influences the condition of the glandu-
lar system, and in turn reacts to the physical organism.
The Prostatic gland in the male acts similarly to the
mammary in the female. However, an over-stimulation of
the prostatic gland will over-stimulate the posterior pi-
tuitary, pertaining to the will, and make for irritability
and nervousness. The prostate gland is located in the
lower abdominal region, and lbears an intimate relation
to the rectum, as well as to the generative organs. The
orchic gonad is correlated to the prostate, though the two
respond as two distinct functions. Prostatic trouble affects
the bladder and the rectum, over-irritation promoting
hemorrhoids and constipation.
The Orchic endocrine has a direct influence upon the
pituitary, stimulating the anterior lobe and promoting
greater will by means of the posterior pituitary. Cour-
age in men is due to the orchic influence upon the pitui-
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian 349
tary, sustaining the will to endure. This is also aided by a
higher adrenal exchange than the woman is expected to
have, which gives men added physical strength. The
orchic influence has more to do in promoting "he-men"
than any other gland. The "sissy" type of man is lacking
in orchic endocrine.
The Orchic endocrine stimulates the thyroid and the
adrenal glands in men to a considerable degree. The
position of the orchic field in men is very similar to the
ovarian field in women, located in the lower abdomen.
The orchic field is a little below that of the prostatic, and
associates with the testicles. One gets a fine example of
the orchic influence in the stallion, the bull, and the dom-
inant male of the animal-mankind. The dominant type of
animal man is controlled through the development of the
posterior pituitary, the seat of the will. When this center
is over-developed, the moron, the brute, the sexual para-
site types appear; but if the orchic endocrine is well bal-
anced with the two poles of the pituitary, a type of man-
hood that expresses power, balance, and consideration
appears, though very decidedly "he" in quality.
A man who is by nature a coward lacks orchic endo-
crine, though this is not alone a matter of glands, for
the nature can be changed or modified by mental and
spiritual influences, if the consciousness is sufficiently
advanced to lay hold of them. But if the orchic field is
not properly functioning a man may be a coward and
have no mental control over it. A cowardly man is usually
a pessimist, therefore is devitalizing the glands through
a phase of the worry complex. A man with nerve to do
anything is living on his orchic influence, but this ought
to be tempered with intelligence. It is mind that controls
man, when it is identified as a function, and not the glands,
although they have their particular influences upon the
natural organism'.
It is the orchic influence that gives men the sense of
superiority, especially over women, and which has led
to the belief that women. cannot function intelligence.
However, this idea is held by some women, especially
350 Spiritual Significance of the Body
those who love to lean upon a man and who are not suf-
ficiently developed to bear their own burdens. Women
are as well supplied with the ova:rian influence as men are
with the orchic, and being created by a God that knows
only equality, can be equally advanced in intelligence as
men. Being the love function of the Creative Plan, women
can unite more readily with advanced intelligence than
men to whom was delegated the power of making the
material world and exercising control over its forces.
The orchic influence upon the adrenals and the pitui-
tary gives the clear eye, the heavy growth of hair common
to men, and the vision to see beyond the present plane
of material advancement. Men are vital, virile, power-
ful, and strong through the orchic endocrine and its inter-
change in the system. They have power of body, mental
coordination, courage and optimism, because of this
quality of glandular exchange. However, the decidedly
"he" type of man is being modified by mental and spir-
itual intelligence the last century. Women no longer
delight in physical powers in men without corresponding
mental and spiritual qualities, and since women represent
in the race the love advancement that controls balance,
demand has been set up for a more refined type of man.
Natu:r:e produces what Love demands, when Love is prop-
erly identified in relation to the spiritual laws.
Women are forced to develop he-qualities and men the
she-qualities in the changing world, and this is having its
effect upon the glandular system. It is especially notice-
able the last generation in smaller men and taller women.
This turnover of the Creation that comes at the end of
Time or mortality indicates the "strange acts" of the Cre-
ator that encompasses the powers of men with Woman.
Woman is not women, but the powers and qualities of
women subjected to the spiritual laws, by which Divine
Love is ascended and enabled to take dominion over the
love of the world, and the love of the flesh. Divine Love
is joined with Wisdom, the type of Man, the two as one
Mother-Fathering the New Order that is to witness the
identification of immortality and righteous government.
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian 351
One is expected to bring up the qualities of the natural
man so as to control them in intelligence. He-men and
she-women are necessary phases of evolution, but they are
not the Type of Man and Woman that God created to par-
take of the divine-human nature. Because the Love Prin-
ciple was reversed to the plane of animal-mankind, and
its function debased, men and women have been dwarfed
in mind and spirit, though this has led to the development
of material powers. Material powers are not allowed to
control the nature of progressing mankind, as is evi-
denced by the Divine Laws that can level down the might
and power of the race at their highest points, forcing it
to take a new starting point.
The lack of orchic influence will derange the thyroid
gland and make for excess fat in men. Women put on
excess fat when the ovarian endocrine·is running down.
The lack of orchic exchange causes loss of hair as well as
pigment in the hair. Being overworked materially, and
not sustained by a philosophical outlook upon life, many
men break under the strain of materialism and the endo-
crine system becomes unbalanced. Chemistry is changed,
the metabolism is thrown out of order and general defi-
ciency follows. Glandular deficiency may be artificially
supplied, and if met in time, it is thought that the ravages
of age and deficiency can be prevented to a certain extent.
The Ovarian glands are peculiar to women. They are
two in number and made up of the oophoron and the par-
oophoron. The oophoron is that portion of the ovary that
contains the ova, and the endocrine secretory cells. The
oophoron of the ovary compares in women to the orchic
in men. The oophoron stimulates the thyroid gland, giving
women perfect figures and soft voices. However, the
breaking down of the oophoron, or the loss of the ovarian
endocrine, will cause loss of figure and fatty deposits;
though it is now known that a change of mind, so as to
supersede the tendencies of the mind of the flesh, accom-
panied with a change in the love nature, has a controlling
influence upon the organism, even to offsetting many
so-called natural effects, as well as defects.
352 Spiritual Significance of the Body
It is a fact of nature that the ovarian field is depleted
through ovalation. Ovalation is the ripening of the egg
in the field of the ovary which destroys the field, leaving
women at the time of the cessation of the menses without
an oophoron exchange; though the spirit of the Law that
produced this natural expression is present and in con-
junction with other glands that are in affinity with the
ovaries, balances this deficiency to a certain extent. Many
women retain their figures and youth longer than others,
due to the condition of the ovarian field and the compensa-
tion furnished by other glands of this group.
It is thought that blondes age sooner than brunettes, as
well as bloom into womanhood sooner. The oophoron field
of the blonde is very large, her ovaries being twice the size
of those of the brunette. The secretion of the endocrine
in the blonde is twice as much as that in the brunette. The
ovarian tissue of the blonde is very frail, as well as other
tissues of the body, and this is thought to be the reason
for the blonde showing age before the brunette. However,
the influences of the mental and spiritual thought upon
the nature are very marked, and can offset the destructive
influences of nature, when spiritual consciousness is
attained. This is not to say that age can be offset so long
as the elements of mortality remain, for God has
appointed the bounds of mortals as a protective measure
to the Spirit of Life that still must inhabit the house of
clay.
The ovaries of the brunette are oblong and small, while
those of the blonde and the auburn-haired are round
and twice as large. The ovaries of the brunette, however,
are very firm and do not break down so easily. Most
"vamps" are blondes because of unbalanced ovarian
endocrine. A healthy ovarian field is necessary to healthy
offspring. The ovaries, besides being organs of procrea-
tion, are the centers of the reproduction of the vital prin-
ciple of life that makes for femininity. It is the oophoron
that stabilizes woman, through coordination with the
pituitary, and which gives mental control. When the
anterior lobe of the pituitary is stimulated by the ovarian
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian 353
endocrine, mental brilliance is present.
One may live without ovaries but one cannot live with-
out the pituitary gland. Ovaries are removed but this has
a tendency to deplete the organism and to defeminize
women. Doctors should hesitate to remove ovaries, and
if they are diseased, they should leave as many ovarian
cells as possible, so as to aid in promoting balanced
endocrine exchange. However, the endocrine system can
be developed by establishing intellect and will, that relate
to the pituitary gland, in conformity with the underlying
Principle of Wisdom and Love. This is not possible with-
out spiritual advancement. The senses do not govern,
but men and women are governed by Mind, the identifica-
tion of the Mind of the Spirit offsetting many of the
natural influences within the organism, and within the
race, to which the ego is subjected when in an unde-
veloped state.
The endocrine system makes the character of the ego.
People of a philosophical tendency of life have more
balanced endocrine systems than those who live under the
material concepts of chance and fate. If people can
change the endocrine system through a philosophical
tendency of mind that does not rest upon gained Prin-
ciples of Knowing and Being, how much more potent is
the influence that enters the organism of one established
in consciousness of Truth (Knowing and Being). Man
is not governed by the stars but by Mind; nor is man
governed by the glands but by Mind centered to spiritual
Principles and Laws. One is transformed or changed in
the physical organism by the renewing of the mind, even
to being spiritually born in the processes of Divine Love;
when one has transcended the thought and love of the
flesh with the Wisdom and Love of the real nature.
The menses, while breaking down the ovarian field
through ovalation, bear a relation to the Divine Laws
that compensate woman, when she is sufficiently advanced
spiritually to receive it. The ripening of the seed of Life
that attends the ovalation has back of it the energies of
the Creative Law to make man, though only a kind of a
354 Spiritual Significance of the Body
man is made from mortal women. Because only a kind
of a man is made from mortal women, women in the
sexual love and thought cannot make contact with the
underlying Creative Laws that gave her this function.
Therefore, one must attain to spirituality of conscious-
ness, through overcoming the thought and love of the
flesh, to partake of the qualities of the Creative Laws
that underlie the function of menstruation; and which
produce the Christ Seed in one who has overcome the
sexual tendencies.
It is the spirit that quickeneth, the letter profiteth
nothing. This is to say that the spirit of menstruation is
that which contains virtue to create in woman the quali-
ties that God idealized consciousness to attain. These
qualities are male and female in character, for of such
nature did God create Man in his image and likeness.
It is through the capacity to attain to the male-female
qualities that Woman becomes the mother of living men,
and the means by which the spiritual type of race, that
transcends the natural, is identified on the planet. The
letter of menstruation gives birth to a kind of a man, but
the spirit of it, when operative in a spiritualized state
of consciousness gives rise to Woman or Divine Love
Principle, that gives birth to the virginal states of con-
sciousness. These egos make up the first fruit of God and
Christ to be brought forth from the progression in Time.
Consciousness, attaining to the Principle of Divine Love,
becomes non-propagative in function, for becoming like
God, it has continuity of progression without the neces-
sity of birth and death. The real function of man is
creative, his office being that of promoting the race and
the planet into a state of bodHy redemption, that the Will
of God may perfectly express in the physical domain.
It is through the redemption of the womanhood of the
race that the Principle of Divine Love is identified and
the government of God is set into operation among men.
This objectifies in the race as righteous government, that
is, the race subjected to the governing Laws of God
through their being brought down to the plane of gov-
Glands: Mammary, Prostate, Orchic, Ovarian 355
ernment and applied to the affairs of men.
The order of immortality that follows mortality will
progress consciousness into conformity to the Divine Laws
through a system of government, this identifying spiritual
man that follows the fulfilment of development of the
natural man. "As we have borne the image of the earthy,
we shall also bear the image of the heavenly." The
heavenly is the spiritual, the revelation of consciousness
conformed to innate Laws of Being, corresponding to
the perfect functioning of the glandular system on the
plane of the natural.
MEDITATION
The Spirit is the governing influence and I am estab-
lished in physical well-being.
I rejoice in perfect coordination, and in perfect func-
tion of all organs.
I am established in perfect expression of male-female
unity, and in perfect being.
~ ------- -- - - -
WORKS of IDA MINGLE
CHURCH: BOOKS
"Science of Love With Key to Immortality"
"Miscellaneous Lessons"
"Healing and Prayer"
"Universal Significance of World Events"
STUDY COURSES
"Life Efficiency Lessons"
"Unfoldment of Man"
"Science and A rt of Regeneration"
'The Gospels Spiritually Interpreted" {Separately)
"Acts Through Jude"
"Revelations Interpreted and Supplement"
"Genesis Through Ma'lachi Interpreted" ·Three Parts
BOOKLETS
"Evolution and the Missing Link"
"The Bible and the Word of God"
"New Name of God and of Man"
''Spiritual Healing' '
"Masonic Symbols Spiritually Interpreted"
''Christ: Christmas: Christianity"
'The Science of Prayer"
"Outworking of Divine Laws and Their Racial
Application"
"Delusion: Satan or Devil"
'The Fullness of the Gentiles"
"Questions and Answers," Nos. I and 2
STA TE: GOVERNMENTAL LITERATURE
· "Rededication of the Principles of the Declaration
of Independence"
"Government of the United States a Republic"
''Scientific Government the Basis of Peace''
''Divine Power and' Monetary Power"
"Chicago: The Queen City of Destiny"
"A New Order of Things"
"Money: Its Function and Service"
'The United States Government: Revolution or
Rebirth?"
"Gov.
emmental Study and Training" (upon application)
"The Light of Truth," published monthly, and sent free for
six months i:() new names.
CATALOGUE SENT UPON REQUEST
SCHOOL OF LIVEABLE .CJ-!RISTIANITY
11g
:-30~e nETRoA-86
~~. n~i~maAN ;o 4, ILL.
