{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__maskelyne___white_magic.pdf","mytitle":"White Magic","mylang":"de"}
WHITE MAGIC
The Story of Maskelynes
By
JASPER MASKELYNE
Treasure Library
LONDON
STANLEY PAUL & CO., LTD.
PRIN'l'BD IN
GRBA'l' BRITAIN,
A'l' THE ANCHOR
PRESS, TIPTRBB,
•• ESSEX • •
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I
PAGE
What is magic ?-The Black Arts and the White-A farming family goes to
the Devil I-Did Nevil .Maskelyne practise witchcraft ?-The .Maskelyne
tradition-"). N." becomes a watchmaker-Friendship with Cooke-=
Attending spiritualistic seances-Advent of the Davenports . . 9
CHAPTER II
A Davenport performance in Cheltenham-The blind that slipped-"The
Juggling Gemini" exposed-A Cheltenham sensation-.Maskelyne and
Cooke go on tour . 21
CHAPTER Ill
A lynching attempt -Success at the Crystal Palace-Freak shows ofthose days
- Plate-spinning, decapitation, and levitation-London-At the Egyptian
Hall-The Magician who would not vanish-Psycho • • • H
CHAPTER IV
Rival establishments-The spirits offer a partnership-A Royal Command
Performance-Dr. Slade exposed-Zoe-Fan-fair and Labial-A Royal
birthday show-Mr. Cooke-J. N.'s commerical inventions • • 44
CHAPTER V
Will, th1 Witch and the Watchman-A monkey goes to sleep-Maskelynes in
Australia-A grand-piano sensation-J. N.'s crusade against card-sharps
- Bianco of Havana-How sharpers work-Some U.S. magicians • s6
CHAPTER VI
Maskelynes on tour-The Phwtix Park murders-Famous magicians come
to the Egyptian Hall-The vanishing ring !-Magicians at the Sultan's
Courts-Devant joins the show-J. N.'s war balloons-"Movies" at
.Maskelynes-A [.1000 challenge-The Devil in Piccadilly . . . 71
CHAPTER VII
Opening at St. George's Hall-Faced with failure-Devant ~omes a partner
-A wizard curate-! make my bow-Archdeacon Colley offers a £1ooo
challenge-Into the Courts-"A Side Issue" • 88
CHAPTER VIII
The Magic Circle-A dead hand plays dominoes-Spies in St. George's Hall-
Turning over "A New Page"-The Indian Rope Trick- A magician in
the Thames-My first Command Performance-Ancient temple magic . 100
CHAPTER IX
Slow-motion photography experiments-Photographing artillery shells in
flight-Nearly a tragedy-Maskelynes held the Admiralty during the War
-Magicians help Lawrence of Arabia-My first ghost • • • 114
vii
viii CONTENTS
CHAPTER X
Mr. Devant retires-Death of J. N.-He tries to get through from beyond the
grave-Why I am banned from seances-When great men die-My father
PAGE
experiments with radio-! leave school-Down on the farm I2.7
CHAPTER XI
My steam-roller and !-Experiments in electricity-"Lighting by Maskelyne"
-A stage part-Behind the scenes at St. George's Hall-An effective
spectre-Playing before Tibetan Lamas-! propose to my assistant I 39
CHAPTER XII
Magic in the past-Black Magic still lives-Werewolves and Vampires-A
history ofwizardry-Tests for Satanists-Rasputin-Magical evolution-
Cagliostro-Pinetti-De Grisi-Houdini . I 53
CHAPTER Xill
An ali-in wrestling match with a Co-Optimist-A canary that wouldn't
vanish-Why I use rubber animals-Death of Nevil Maskelyne-
Lightning at his burial-! become Managing Directorof St. George's Hall I65
CHAPTER XIV
Western magic before an Indian Maharajah-"The Dizzy Limit"-Indian
Rope Trick theories-Sword-walking-Two sensations at St. George's
Hall-Tricking the C.I.D.-Secrets of my magic . . . • I76
CHAPTER XV
Dispatch-riding in the General Strike-Attacked by my colleagues-Mid-
summer marriage-Nearly drowned in Beer-Children on the stage-A
magic competition at "Maskelynes"-Magicians in trouble • I89
CHAPTER XVI
"The amateur whitewasher"-Film work-A tragic suicide-Devil-worship in
London-! attend a "Witches' Sabbath"-A committee member creates a
sensation at St. George's Hall-Committees and magic 2.02.
CHAPTER XVII
Off to South Mrica with twelve tons of magic-Nature puts up a rival magic
show-A Zulu witch-doctor puts a curse on me-A python round my
neck-Three escapes from the Zulu's curse-! meet a poltergeist . . 2.I5
CHAPTER XVIII
The ghosts from the plague-pit-My first Royal Command show on my own
-A children's garden party-! am dismissed from St. George's Hall-
Starting alone-Appearing before the Queen-St. George's Hall shuts
down-Adventures on tour-"Jasper, the husband's fear" . . . 2.2.9
CHAPTER XIX
Private party magic-The sand trick on a valuable Persian carpet-A "levitat-
ing table"-The romance of a vanishing spectre-The case of the dis-
appearing traveller-An unrehearsed trick with two note-books . 2.4I
CHAPTER XX
Magic films of the future-Theatrical production illusions-Puzzle : find the
body-A new Maskelynes' Theatre-An old name disappears from magic
-I meet Mr. Morton-The author vanishes for the last time 2. 5I
WHITE MAGIC
CHAPTER I
What is magic ?-The Black Arts and the White-A farming family
goes to the Devill-Did Nevil Maskelyne practise witchcraft ?-
The Maskelyne tradition- "). N." becomes a watchmaker-
Friendship with Cooke-Attending spiritualistic seances-Advent
of the Davenports.
THERE are a number of answers to the question "What is
magic ?". Doubtless some of my readers who have played
faro or highball poker with strangers can give one defini-
tion. Victims ofthe three-card trick or the manipulated dice
have theirown ideas. Peoplewho, in these enlightenedtimes,
still openly believe in ghosts, spirit manifestations, and
wart-charming, can explain yet another form of magic,
though they cannot explain it away.
For myself, I believe in only one sort of mystification,
and that is White Magic. I grant a respectful reservation
towards the Black Arts, not because I can practise them
myself, but as the result of some rather eerie experiences
which I shall detail later.
In the main, however, this book, being a history of the
Magic House of Maskelyne, deals with the gentle art of
illusion only, and the adventures that have befallen three
generations of us who have made a living by deluding the
public.
Other wizards- the share-pushers and gold-brick sellers
of our times-have perhaps been even more financially
successful, and had more exciting lives. But I claim that
we Maskelynes, from my grandfather, "J. N.", to myself,
Q
IO WHITE MAGIC
the youngest ofhis grandchildren, have won greater amuse-
ment and more happiness than even these "big shots" of
this world of illusion.
Yet, curiously enough, our family connection with
magic had a black beginning, if legend speaks true. For
there is an ancient story, laughed at as such tales are bound
to be by each succeeding generation of Maskelynes (though
one apologetically touches wood or crosses one's fingers
at the time), to the general effect that a certain farmer ofour
name once sold himself, with entail rights over the next
ten generations of us, to the Devil. From that day, so the
chronicle runs, we have all been possessed ofmagic powers.
JohnMaskelyne,burlysixteenth-centuryfarmer, respected
squire, and Justice of the Peace, was called to pass sentence
one day on a little twisted black man, in a black silk suit,
known only by the queer appellation of the Drummer of
Tedworth. The little person was most clearly proved guilty
ofwitchcraft, and was sent to the plantations.
A month after he had left these shores in the prison-ship
queer rumours began to get abroad concerning Farmer
Maskelyne. A little black man was seen limping about his
farm. He himself, morose and fearful, hardly ever stirred
from the sprawling farmhouse under the wood.
His red cattle died ofa murrain. A fire driven by a strange
wind burned down his corn-ricks after harvest, and a little
black figure was seen dancing in the flames. The farmer
began to gamble, and lost more money than he possessed.
And then his prosperity returned with unnatural
rapidity. The empty Wiltshire fields were suddenly stocked
with twice as many cattle as he had formerly owned. One
morning in February, during a local famine) he said that his
hams were bursting with com-the corn that had been
burned six months earlier. His pockets clinked with gold.
Then he died-or some said he disappeared one night,
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES II
flying on ·great black wings athwart racing storm-clouds,
while the figure of the little twisted man gambolled about
him.
So much for the legend. According to its sequel, John
Maskelyne had bought, by the sale of his soul, Black Magic
powers not only for himself but for ten generations of his
descendants.
Although we modern representatives of the family
take the tale lightly, the ranks of the credulous seem hardly
thinned since good King Charles's golden reign. For
Maskelynes ever since have been accused of dark and dirty
dealings with the Little Black Man.
Nevil Maskelyne, Royal Astronomer to King George ID,
found his early career seriously hampered by gossip-
mongers who persistently spread the libel that his know-
ledge of the stars in their courses sprang from the prompt-
ings of a black-coated familiar who was as conversant with
the star-ways as Nevil himself was with the byways of old
Westminster.
Throughout all the latter part of his career, it is true that
this Nevil had only one assistant. Between them they
originated the now world-famous Nautical Almanack
following a voyage on which Nevil had determined the
transit of Venus and other astral calculations.
He invented the prismatic micrometer, measured time
to tenths of a second, ascertained the weight of the earth,
and taught us much of what we know about latitude and
longitude. And, following each of his new discoveries,
there came the murmur of those who remembered the old
legends concerning John Maskelyne's dealings with a limp-
ing gentleman in black to whom all these things were mere
nursery knowledge.
The astronomer's one assistant was sometimes said to
be the Little Gentleman in Black I
12 WHITE M A G I C
A lady ancestress of mine who seems to ha~e escaped
entirely the evil effects of the Devil·legend, though there
were those who attributed her amazing marriage to super-
natural agencies, was 11argaret Maskelyne, sister of the
astronomer and wife of Clive of India.
Lord Clive fell in love with her before he saw her-
and if that isn't magic, what is ? The stern martinet and
powerful ruler of India went one day into the apartments
of a brother officer, Captain Maskelyne, and saw hanging
there a miniature of a lovely dark girl with downcast eyes
and a merry, roguish mouth.
The General went over to the portrait and studied it
attentively before asking whom it represented. The Captain
replied that it was his little sister Margaret, most divine and
bewitching of females, and-a spinster.
Then and there, Lord Clive expressed a desire to marry
her. Love at first sight, magic-call it what you will, but it
is true.
A formal offer of his hand followed ; dark Margaret
studied the portrait of the famous soldier submitted for her
approval; and a few weeks later she was on her way in a
full-rigged ship to India, since public opinion at home was
. then dangerously high against Clive, and he deemed it more
prudent not to leave his adopted land. In 175 3 they were
married at Madras, and Macaulay tells us that they were
devoted to each other and lived happily ever after.
Another West-Country Maskelyne of the same line was
born in 1839. Astronomy had by this time been given up
for the greater attractions of the old farm under the wood,
whence the original naughty John was said to have flown
on his great black wings two hundred years before. It is my
greatest ambition in life to return when I retire to that
grey Cotswold farm, with its dry-stone walls and stone-tiled
roof; I am even prepared to risk meeting the Little Black
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 13
Man there, when I could perhaps show him some tricks too
modern yet to have reached his own repertoire.
Before I commence the more authentic history of the
modern House of Maskelyne with the story of my grand-
father, John Nevil, born in 1839, I must say a brief word
about the Devil legend as it has impinged on his life, and
my father's, and my own.
"]. N." was constantly accused, often by people who
should have had more intelligence, of having the power
to expose spiritualist and similar trickery, as demonstrated·
by the Davenports and others, simply because he was in
league \Vith the Father of Tricks.
The same accusation, the Gospels tell us, was levelled
against a certain Divine Teacher nearly twenty centuries
ago, and His answer has sufficed for all time-that a house
divided against itself cannot stand, and how therefore can
devils be cast out by the Prince of Devils ?
In my own experience, I have received endless letters,
many of them scurrilous and offensive in the extreme,
accusing me of obtaining my stage effects by the aid of
the Black Arts, telling me that I must be in league With the
Evil One, and-in different vein, though still apparently
intended seriously-telling me that I am the head of a magic
London crime gang.
Sometimes, as I read these often ill-spelt epistles, I
cannot resist a little sigh of envy. What an illusionist
I should be if I were as great as these unconscious syco-
phants claim for me I
To return to my grandfather, the founder of Maskelyne
and Cooke's, and to my mind incomparably the greatest
magician of modern or any other times- with the possible
exception of Moses. Unlike myself, he did not take kindly
to a farming atmosphere, showing a very early aptitude for
mechanics which was later to make his fame and fortune.
14 WHITE MAGIC
For his tricks were almost all of them beautiful demonstra-
tions of applied mechanics.
It is said that he began his career by taking to pieces
a wonderful "turnip" watch belonging to his father. That
stem parent immediately vowed,with a certaingrimhumour,
considering the mess his beloved watch was probably in
at the time, that J. N. should be apprenticed to a Chelten-
ham watchmaker, and learn how to correct the harm he had
so innocently done.
And so J. N., a budding dandy of the leisurely Early
Victorian era, no doubt longing for the time when he could
sport Dundrearies like his master, was bound apprentice
to the watchmaking profession, and first really takes the
stage, as far as this history is concerned, swinging his cane
and swaggering along the Cheltenham sidewalks, no doubt
rolling most devastating eyes at the crinolined damsels who
minced past beside stately Mammas while he strode on his
predestined way towards the street-corner where he was to
collide with another young West-Countryman of the name
ofCooke.
I have often heard my grandfather talk of that accidental
meeting. They seem to have stared at each other and begun
the formal and high-flown apologies of the age-and then,
simultaneously, broken down in most unconventional
laughter. They shook hands, exchanged names-and so
began a partnership whose fame was later to spread into the
four corners of the earth.
The friendship so strangely started seems to have devel-
oped spasmodically for some time. Both lads were idly
interested in conjuring, and this passed from an amusement
for leisure moments into a real hobby. With J. N. it com-
menced the grand passion of his life.
In company with half a dozen acquaintances in Chelten-
ham, these two young men started a sort of conjuring club.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 15
They used to meet at the house ofone or other ofthe mem-
bers, give demonstrations of their latest acquirements in
the way of tricks, study books whose subjects ranged from
witchcraft to legerdemain, and develop $imple mechanisms
that helped to provide various startling illusions.
J. N. took the lead among them from the first. He had
the personality of a Barnum or a C. B. Cochran, and was
even then a hom showman with a true sense of dramatic
possibilities. Moreover, his work as a watchmaker enabled
him to attain a surprising proficiency over delicate and
minute machinery, some of which could easily be adapted
to the purposes of magic.
My grandfather's interest in mechanical illusions was
aroused when he was a boy of twelve, when he saw at a
London exhibition a wonderful "piping bullfinch". I have
heard him say in his later years that, above all his own extra-
ordinary inventions, he set this forgotten marvel of 1851,
and that it directly prompted him to commence his experi-
ments with magic mechanisms which began, when he was
sixteen, with an elaborate apparatus for optical illusions,
and culminated with "Psycho" and its contemporaries.
In 1848, nine years after my grandfather was born, a
Mr. and Mrs. Fox and their daughters in New York began
what appears to have been the world's biggest hoax, which
almost immediately gained the name of spiritualism. When
J. N. was a young man, still faithfully doing his duty by the
timepieces of Cheltenham, his interest in spiritualism was
aroused in a curious way.
Into his shop one day there walked a strange-looking
man, with long hair and beard, who gave the young assist-
ant a curious bit of apparatus. He explained at some length
that it had a broken spring, and that he wanted the spring
renewed, but he deftly turned aside a tentative inquiry as
to its purpose.
WHI'I'E MAGIC
J. N. mended it satisfactorily, and might have forgotten
the incident but for the strange behaviour of the gentleman
when he came to pay for the repair. He tested the instru-
ment carefully, waggled his beard, and put down a golden
half-sovereign on the counter. The cost of the repair was
only a matter of a couple of shillings. ·
"I'm sure a useful young man like you will know what
to do with the change," he said confidentially. "And in
return-just forget that you've seen me."
Which, of course, astounded J. N., who got the idea
that the visitor was some sort of housebreaker, and that
the apparatus was part of his burglar's outfit. So he politely
refused the bribe and thought the more.
Two days later, at a meeting of the young C~eltenham
magicians-it might have been called the origin of the
present-day Magic Circle, that meeting-a member men-
tioned casually that one of the. new-fangled American
"spiritualists" was giving a magic-show at Devizes, and that
in it invisible hands, said to be those of the dead, rapped on
the table, thus answering questions put to them by the
bearded old professor who acted as medium.
In a moment J. N. thought of the instrument he had
repaired. It was an automatic table-tapper ; a most ingenious
little instrument, invisible from the audience, but easily
operated by anyone standing near the table.
Before the meeting broke up that night its members
had vowed themselves to a campaign of exposure of all
fraudulent mediums using mechanical table-tappers.
Devizes was a long way from Cheltenham, but there
was some hope that the bearded gentleman might come
nearer, when the young magicians promised themselves
some fun.
However, no seances were held within reasonable
distance of the town where the tapper had been repaired ;
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 17
doubtless the medium was wise in his generation. The
ardour of the young conjurers died down for a while.
And then, superseding the other idea for a time, there
came the bright suggestion of giving some amateur enter-
tainments of magic in Cheltenham. I suspect that the lure
of the bright eyes that shone so roguishly when their
owners curtseyed down into their crinolines may have had
something to do with this decision. I like to think of the
girls of that day whispering excitedly to one another : "Oh,
that dreadful Mr. Maskelyne is giving a legerdemain per-
formance on Wednesday evening. I'm going to try so hard
to get Aunt Louisa to take me. Mr. Cooke will be there,
too ; and they are going to do the most appalling things l"
At least, Maskelyne and Cooke and their amateur
magic circle began to gain some sort of recognition among
their townsmen as young fellows who knew a thing or two,
and might be pretty well relied upon to detect any trickery
that was going.
And so it happened that when the town buzzed with
comment, one day, following the display of some chaste
little announcements that the Davenport Brothers were
coming to Cheltenham, the citizens, burgesses and land-
graves went inposse to young Messrs. Cooke and Maskelyne
and asked them to uphold the burgh's reputation for sharp-
ness by joining the committee that was to watch, at close
quarters, the amazing tricks of these said Davenports, and
ensure that the spirits with whom they communed were
really spirits, and, in fact, that there was nothing up the
Davenport sleeve.
Now these Davenports had already gained a very great
reputation, not only in England, but abroad as well.
Immediately after the world got to hear of the mysterious
happenings at the Fox menage in New York, two American
brothers, sons of a Buffalo policeman named Davenport,
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 19
were touched by flying instruments, which on one occasion became so
demonstrative that one gentleman received a knock on the nasal
organ which broke the skin and caused a few drops of blood to
flow....
A Mr. Fay sat in a chair on the stage, and the instant the light was
extinguished a whizzing noise was heard. "It's off1" exclaimed Mr.
Fay. A candle was lighted, and his coat was found lying in the
middle of the room. . • ."
And so on and so on. Someone else's coat was laid on
a table, and in a moment of darkness it transferred itself
to the shoulders of the coatless Mr. Fay, who, by the way,
was an assistant of the Davenports. A gold watch mysteri-
ously fled from the hand of its owner to the _
feet of Dr.
Ferguson.
The audience, after a two hours' seance, were invited
to examine the cabinet, the coats, the musical instruments
and so on, and professed themselves absolutely satisfied that
these things contained no apparatus that could help in
obtaining the phenomena. In passing, I should say that
reporters, of whom there were many present, must have
been simpler in those days than they are now.
Well, of course, after this seance the reputation of the
Davenports was made, as far as sleepy old England was
concerned. They toured with great honour and profit,
after a long London engagement, and in the fullness of time
Fate brought them to the Town Hall, in St. James's Square,
Cheltenham, where twenty-six-year-old John Nevil Mas-
kelyne was destined to expose their trickery to an astounded
world. . .
J. N. was already enough of a magician himself to have
refused utterly to explain away the tricks of a brother in
the craft. But these Davenports definitely claimed that
they were not illusionists but media, and that not they but
the spirits of the dead created the effects which had so
impressed the representative of the Morning Post and his
B
.20 WHI'I'E MAGIC
friends in London. They asked the towns they visited to
empanel committees to watch them at close quarters, so
as to show that no trickery was used.
.As I have said, my grandfather was among those chosen
to act as the eyes of Cheltenham. He was, as he often said
to me later, actuated by nothing more than curiosity in
accepting the honour. He had an open mind; he was pre-
pared to be convinced that communication with the dead
had really been established. But he was not prepared to
countenance any chicanery whose works he himself could
expose, more particularly since spiritualism was even then
attracting to itself innumerable unhappy people who had
lost their loved ones, and who were only too ready to be
credulous when the Davenports and their smooth ex-
Presbyterian friend offered eloquence and bell-ringings in
exchange for expensive tickets of admittance.
The stage is set ; all Cheltenham, from Dundrearies to
petticoats, is agog with excitement ; the Great Davenports
are here, ready to speak with the departed, and that young
Mr. Maskelyne, the amateur conjurer, is to sit on the stage
and see fair play.
In my next chapter I will ring up the curtain on that
historic Cheltenham stage, and at the same time ring it up
on the history of three generations of professional illusion-
ists of whom I am the last.
CHAPTER II
A Davenport performance in Cheltenham-The blind that slipped-
"The Juggling Gemini" exposed-A Cheltenham sensation-
Maskelyne and Cooke go on tour.
THE afternoon of the Davenport Brothers' performance
at the Cheltenham Town Hall was a fine one, and the
inhabitants of the town flocked through the streets towards
the meeting-hall, anxious to see the very first effort at com-
municating with the dead ever publicly made there.
Doubtless there were wild conjectures flying among the
audience as it packed tighter and tighter into the Town
Hall. Would any local people be recognized by the on-
lookers when the Davenports recalled them from the
grave ? What messages would the spirits give ? How could
a bound man release himselffrom tight ropes and ring bells,
all in a matter of seconds, and then appear rebound again ?
Would young Mr. Maskelyne detect trickery? Depend upon
it, he would see it, if any took place.
The hall was filled. The doors were shut. Dark blinds
were drawn across all the windows, while Dr. Ferguson,
a benign and commanding figure, explained from the stage
that the spirits dreaded light and could not communicate
happily save in darkness.
With unctuous solemnity he announced that Ira Erastus
and William Benry Davenport were gifted by Heaven,
and that they worked by spirit-craft alone, not by "the wit-
craft of the commercial". They had, he said in his deep
voice, nothing whatever to do with the ringing of the bells
or other phenomena presently to be witnessed. They
21
2.2. WHITE MAGIC
remained bound and motionless all the time; but, by com-
muning with the spirits of the dead, they enabled the latter
to manifest, for the glory of God and the greater enlighten-
ment of weak humanity.
To prove conclusively that no human agency was
employed, Dr. Ferguson asked that here, as in London and
elsewhere, a chosen quorum of townsmen should come and
sit on the platform and if they could detect any fraud or
trickery by the Brothers there to declare it.
A smallposse offrock-coated Cheltenham men advanced
on to the platform and seated themselves there. Among
them were my grandfather and his friend, young Cooke.
Finally, the Davenports, clad in black, with long dark
hair, heavy moustaches and black goatee beards, Ira in
his usual attitude with one hand inside his coat and modesdy
veiling his heart, walked on to the stage amid enormous
applause, and sat down. They were bound hand and foot
to their bench, the townsmen assisting in the tying and
thoroughly examining all the knots ; the skeleton wardrobe
was wheeled on to the stage and examined ; and the musical
instruments placed in position.
Then the lights were turned out. Almost immedi-
ately bells began to ring, music was played, hands were
seen apparently floating about the wardrobe, and frightened
and excited exclamations, some pious and some quite other-
wise, were surprised from the packed audience.
As a small boy it was my constant delight to persuade
my grandfather to. recount to me what followed. As nearly
as possible, I will now recall his own words.
"I was sitting at the side of the stage, watching hard,
and waiting for the advent of a litde surprise I had planned
with the aid of another member of our conjuring club.
When I judged that the centre of the wardrobe was due to
open I tapped with my foot on the floor.
'I' HE S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 23
"At that signal, my friend arranged that the blind at
one ofthe windows should be drawn aside a little, admitting
a spear of afternoon sunshine just as the wardrobe door
opened and instruments began to fly out ofit.
"In the light, I clear!J saw Ira Davenport throwing the
instruments out of the wardrobe.
"He cast one startled glance towards the window,
jumped back to his bench, wriggled his shoulders with
incredible quickness-and as I jumped to my feet to
announce the swindle, the lights went up, and there were
both brothers, sitting in their places, the ropes that bound
them still so tightly tied that they actually cut into the
flesh.
"Dr. Ferguson, who had been watching us like a lynx
all the time, padded swiftly up to me before I could speak,
and whispered urgently to me not to say anything till I
had discussed the matter privately with him. I refused.
" 'Ladies and Gentlemen,' I called loudly above the
din of clapping and exclamation, 'I have discovered the
method by which these tricks are performed.'
"The audience was stricken into silence as ifI had shown
them the Gorgon's head.
"'I challenge that statement I' called the lessee of the
Town Hall.
"'I am perfectly prepared to make good my words,'
I shouted above the uproar that was gathering. 'The tricks
are performed by dexterity and practice. Within threemonths
I guarantee to reproduce every one of.these tricks myself,
here in this place, and absolutely without any spirit aid
whatsoever.'"
Well, of course, my grandfather's statement produced
a really first-class sensation. One of the Davenports started
an harangue, but was dragged off the stage by his brother
and Ferguson. The latter came running back, panting sorely,
WHITE MAGIC
and tried to shout something about "this misguided young
gentleman" and "his preposterous claims".
But the meeting, as a seance attended by the shades,
was really pretty well ruined. The audience emerged into
the daylight of the Cheltenham streets, buzzing like bees
from an overturned hive. Rumour ran hot-foot before them.
I should think the local pubs did good business that night,
and tittle-tattle probably re-echoed even over the most
exclusive of Cheltenham's tea-tables.
As for the Davenports, they had survived attempts at
exposure before. They just moved on, in dignified sorrow,
going to as many English towns as they could while the
going was good.
Less than two months after their historic meeting,
Cheltenham was placarded with the first playbill ever pro-
duced by Maskelyne and Cooke.
It announced that on Monday evening, June 19th, 1865,
these two young gentlemen would give a grand exposition
at the Aviary Gardens of the entire public seance of the
Davenport Brothers. The performance was scheduled to
take place in open daylight, without the aid of spirits, and
it offered to duplicate all the Davenport tricks, and to
exhibit many others even more astonishing.
It was always a trait in my grandfather's character that
he was not content unless he gave his public really good
measure I
· The Town Hall had been crowded, but the Aviary Gar-
dens were filled to overflowing I Among the audience there
were several bewhiskered gentlemen from the London
papers, grimly determined not to be duped any more.
A cabinet like the Davenport wardrobe was brought
on to the platform first, and was tapped, measured, felt and
shaken by everyone present who wished to test it. Two of
the reporters, with the aid of a tarry sailor imported for the
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 25
occasion, tied my grandfather and - Cooke inside the
cabinet, which was big enough to accommodate them
comfortably. The sailor expressed himself briefly and
vividly about the strength of the ropes, and he was a critical
man.
Immediately the doors of the cabinet were closed, this
time in full daylight, they were thrown open again from
the inside, and the sailor, running forward with the reporters
and some Cheltenham men at his heels, found the two
"magicians" as securely tied as ever, in their original places.
The doors were shut again, bells rang, tambourines
played wildly, and naked hands appeared in the aperture
of the doors, which had opened immediately to admit them.
A man ran forward and flung the doors wide, but Messrs.
Cooke and Maskelyne still sat bound in their places.
A man from the audience, being critical, was invited to
ascend to the platform, where he was blindfolded and seated
inside the cabinet. His hands were tied to the knees of the
two operators, and the doors were again shut. A Bedlam
of music was heard from inside, the doors opened of their
own accord, and the blindfolded gentleman was seen still
bound as before, with my grandfather and his assistant tied
hand and foot beside him, the only change being that a
tambourine had perched itself rakishly on the head of the
ne\vcomer.
He retired among the audience feeling that his doubts
had received a technical knock-out.
The performers then had a few more ropes tied round
them by members of the audience who wanted the job
done thoroughly ; and, on the suggestion of a cynic, all the
knots were sealed with heavy wax seals, bearing the signet
imprint ofone of the onlookers. Another helpful gentleman
suggested that the hands of the magicians should be filled
with flour. This was done.
26 W. H I T E M A G I C
The doors of the cabinet were closed, whereupon two
cornets inside instantly began a duet of "Home, Sweet
Home!" about the choice ofwhich there seems to have been
an impish appropriateness.
As the.last chord died away, eager hands plucked the
doors of the cabinet wide open, but Messrs. Cooke and
Maskelyne still sat, bound, sealed and floured, and quite
unflurried. No flour was to be seen on the ropes or spilled
in the cabinet.
At this point in the performance the sailor who had
acted as professional knotter had to be led outside because
he was paying audible tribute in the language the Senior
Service felt that the occasion demanded.
After many of the audience had examined the seals,
to see that they had not been tampered with, the doors
were closed again, while the two performers, still in their
sealed ropes and with the flour in their hands, sat silently
within.
Four minutes later they both emerged from the cabinet,
totally unfettered, and with the flour still unspilled in their
hands. The newspaper reports next day said that they were
smiling. I can well believe it.
After this they began to get really sensational!
Grandfather announced that he would permit himself
to be shut in a heavy deal box, three feet long by two feet
wide and eighteen inches deep. The box was duly produced,
inspected by a dozen or two of the audience, and passed as
free of tricks.
It must have been a bit of a squash to get into it, but
he managed it. The box was then locked, and the key
tossed among the audience. Another man from the audience
then roped up the box so that the woodwork was almost
covered, and sealed the ropes. He took seven minutes over
this part of the job.
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 2.7
The box was then placed in the big cabinet used for the
previous tricks, and a careful gentleman in the audience-
it seems to have been composed mainly of such cynical
people-suggested the placing of several bells on top of the
box. The cabinet doors were closed and bolted.
Immediately the bells began to ring ; within a couple
of minutes they came flying through the gradually opening
doors of the cabinet ; and when those doors flew wide at
last Grandfather was seen sitting on top of the box, \vhich
was found to be still locked, roped and sealed as before.
The man in the audience who still held the key of the
box told this one, later in the evening, to the sailor knotting-
specialist. I am unable to print his reply, but it was
one of the few comments that really did justice to the
performance.
And now what had begun as a dare in the interests of
truth developed into a theatrical touring company. That
night after the Cheltenham show, with the wine of the
applause still in their heads, Cooke and my grandfather
decided to throw up their steady employment in the town
and take their magic on tour.
It was a venturesome decision for two young men to
reach in those staid days. Victorians in the main looked on
the stage as the Devil's playground. Even in our own n1ore
tolerant era fortune is apt to frown on lads who propose,
entirely without previous experience, to go into manage-
ment on their own, without a penny to back them, and with
an entirely novel tum to sho\v.
For the young men proposed, by means of amusing
interludes, patter and brilliant mechanical illusions, to
attempt something quite different from the well-\vom
conjuring devices current in their day. They set out to
revolutionize professional magic. The wonder is that they
did it, equipped with nothing else than their own courage,
28 WHITE M A G I C
and did it on a scale that has now changed conjuring
methods throughout the world.
An epic could have been written about the early
adventures of this initial Maskelyne and Cooke tour. At first,
great audiences flocked to see the exposers of the Daven-
ports. But the thing was a seven-day wonder; without the
morbid sensational appeal that·the spiritualists themselves
monopolized in this connection it soon ceased to attract.
Events moved in a vicious circle. Grandfather could
not afford to advertise ; he could not afford to give time and
money to the invention of mechanical t~icks with ideas for
which his brain teemed; it soon looked as though an
ignominious return to Cheltenham and watchmaking was
the only thing left to do.
The manager of a hall in Bold Street, Liverpool, was
approached as a last resource, and he agreed, reluctantly
enough, to "farm" the show for a month as an experiment.
He admitted himself vastly impressed with the entertain-
ment, but was uncertain if it would appeal to_his public.
It didn't 1Perhaps it was too clever. Anyway, at the end
of the month the manager declined to back the show any
further. Matters became desperate.
It 'Yas at this critical juncture that a Mr. William Morton
sent in his card one day, and asked to see my grandfather.
Mr. Morton, who was only twenty-seven at the time, had
already been a journalist, solicitor's clerk, compositor and
bookseller, coming badly to griefin his last role, and having
to start again, this time as a concert agent.
He saw Maskelyne and Cooke's show, and offered to
finance a tour for them through Lancashire, on fifty-fifty
terms. It was a godsend to them, and they accepted.
At the end of the first month, no profits had been made
at all. But Mr. Morton, who is still alive, and who, at
ninety-five, recently began yet another new adventure by
'I' H E S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 2.9
writing his first book, an intensely interesting little auto-
biography, was fearless and confident in his own judgment.
He continued to back the show.
At one period he was actually paying both the per-
formers' minute salaries as well as meeting all expenses.
It was typical of J. N. that he invented a device, when
things were at their worst, which instantly attracted new
attention to the show, and appealed far more to provincial
audiences than any of his duplications of the authentic
Davenport spiritualistic tricks.
The mechanism in this case was a small casket, made
of metal, plain and innocent in appearance, and open to
the most critical examination. In this casket, marked coins,
rings, etc., borrowed from the audience, were placed.
Any member of the onlookers could then bind round the
casket with tape or string, and seal all the knots. If desired,
he could supply his own materials.
J. N. would then take the casket from the hands of the
man who had secured it, and pass it instantly to any other
member of the audience who wished to participate in the
trick. The bonds were unbroken, the seals untouched-
but, in transit, all the articles mysteriously passed from the
closed casket into the possession of the conjurer.
He could produce ~hem from the ears and mouths of
yet other members of the audience, if so desired ; the
marvel was the transference of the articles from the box in
the half-minute or so permitted during the passing of the
casket from hand to hand.
This trick was instantaneously successful. Audiences
began to increase ; instead of always seeking frenziedly
for bookings, Mr. Morton, the new manager of the show,
could sometimes pick among the offers he received; the
comer was turned and profits at last began to come in.
A year had now gone by from the time when Maskelyne
WHI'I'E MAGIC
and Cooke gave their first public performance at Chelten-
ham. Even now, though engagements were starting to come
in on their own accord, matters were precarious at times.
In the summer of 1866, during a spell of wonderful
weather, audiences shrank almost to zero. The show was
playing in Lancashire, and the receipts at the end of a swel-
tering July week were not nearly enough to cover the rent
due on the Saturday night to the lessees of the hall.
On that Saturday morning, ~orton, Cooke, and J. N.
went round the town placarding it with startling red bills.
A FREE GIFT 1!
Maskelyne and Cooke, the famous illusionists and exposers
of so-called Spiritualists, are now performing at the Town Hall.
Tonight, every person paying for admission will be given
HALF A CROWN
Come early to avoid the crush I I
In case I ever need to try the same one myself, I mean to
preserve the secret of how it was done. But it was done, and
done to the entire satisfaction of the hard-headed Lancas-
trian audience.
The hall that night accommodated just under one
thousand paying patrons, and a couple of hundred more
were turned away when it had been packed so that the
doors would hardly shut. ..
Enormous applause lasted for several minutes after the
curtain had finally rung down. As for the takings, they
paid the expenses for the week and left a margin ofprofit.
A couple of weeks later the show was in trouble again.
A lady taking part in one of the advertised turns was
suddenly taken ill, and no substitute could be found. Mr.
Morton himself had to act in her stead.
He got into skirts and bustles, and J. N. announced
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 31
from the stage that, his assistant having fallen ill, a well-
known local lady amateur was helping him in the trick.
Mr. Morton then put on his feathered hat, pulled his veil
well down to hide his moustache, and tripped on to the
stage amid welcoming applause.
Fortunately, he had nothing to say, for he was a little
affected with a stammer. But fate tried to interfere in another
way. Before he had been on the stage two minutes, J. N.
whispered to him in an agitated aside: "Don't tum round,
Mr. Morton. Keep your face to the audience. Somethings
bust/"
The scene was cut down as much as possible, but Mr.
Morton only just got off the stage in time 1
Better business was done in the winter of 1866, but the
following summer began to empty the houses once more.
]. N. prayed for rain, sleet and thunder, but even he could
not produce magic of that calibre.
When things were at their worst, a hall was booked in
a northern town, and despite the greatest efforts of the
company disaster loomed ahead when the week-end
approached. It was obvious that receipts would nowhere
near equal expenses; after a frenzied whip-round it was
found impossible even to collect enough to pay for the rent
of the hall.
Mr. Morton, faced with a complete blank in bookings,
and knowing that his company had not enough money in
their pockets to keep them together any longer, went with a
heavy heart to see the lessee of the hall. .
It had been decided that, after their two years of agon-
izing effort, Maskelyne and Cooke would have to close
down. The piano, the only bit of the properties worth any-
thing in ready money, was to be left- if the lessee would
generously accept it-in lieu of rent.
He proved to be a Quaker solicitor, of precise demean-
WHITE MAGIC
our and businesslike speech. He greeted Mr. Morton civilly,
and listened to his unhappy story. Then he sat silent for a
few moments.
"Take thy piano with thee, friend," he said at last. "I
do not attend theatres myself because of my beliefs. But we
are told to be tolerant. I have heard excellent accounts of
thee, William Morton, and of the young men Maskelyne
and Cooke, whose work in exposing certain fraudulent
persons seemeth to do much to protect the credulous and
the afflicted. Take thy piano, and trouble no more about
the moneys thou owest for the use of the hall. Go and
prosper. Good-bye; and God bless thee, one and all."
When Mr. Morton returned in jubilation to the saddened
company, who were already saying their good-byes, he
found a letter awaiting him from the manager of the Crystal
Palace in London, offering him an engagement of several
weeks there I
CHAPTER TII
A lynching attempt-Success at the Crystal Palace- Freak shows of
those days-Plate-spinning, decapitation and levitation-London
-At the Egyptian Hall-The magician who would not vanish-
Psycho.
Goon fortune never comes sparingly. While J. N., Cooke
and Mr. Morton were still rejoicing in their reprieve from
dissolution, the manager of a hall in a neighbouring town
walked in and offered them an engagement for the next
week. It was most useful to bridge tbe gap between then
and the London engagement, but it nearly ended in tragedy.
I don't know whether the exhilaration of the future
made the performances the _
following week a little too good.
But by the Wednesday rumours were humming through the
town that the conjurers were not illusionists merely, but
magicians in league with the Evil One.
On that Wednesday evening a fiery old chapel preacher
of the locality sat _in the stalls. Grandfather took this as an
enormous compliment, for chapels in the main did not
then encourage the theatre in any of its branches. The best
possible show was offered.
When the old man took his place in the stalls again the
following night everyone was delighted. He set his stove-
pipe hat fiercely beneath his seat, and seemed to settle down
to enjoy the performance.
He came again on the Friday, accompanied by a couple
of elders as cadaverous as himself. Grandfather hoped that
some of the congregation might turn up on the Saturday-
as a matter of fact, they had been playing to crowded
houses since midweek.
33
34 WHITE MAGIC
Long before the Saturday evening show was due to
begin it was obvious that the congregation had turned up.
They were crowding and yelling and swaying outside the
doors, hundreds strong ; and their tone left very little to
be explained. They were out for blood.
In the forefront ofthe mob was the old preacher, waving
a most unpleasant-looking stick and urging them on.
The manager of the place came in about a quarter of an
hour before the performance was due to start. He was
collarless, bloodstained and tom.
"Get out of here I Get out of here I" he kept on repeat-
ing. "They'll pull you to bits, and my hall to bits on top of
you. That old fool out there says you've been contracting
with the devil. He's telling 'em now he's watched you these
last three nights, and it isn't the magic of mortal man."
My grandfather was inclined to stay and let the matter
settle itself, but in the company was his wife, and nothing
on earth would have induced him to run a risk of her being
harmed. They had married in Cheltenham when they were
both very young-just before the first tour commenced,
for she preferred to take her chance with him rather than
wait for him to become rich and famous.
His first contract with Mr. Morton specified that he
should receive £4 a week on behalf of himself and his wife
and all his apparatus, while Mr. Cooke received £z 1os.
Mter some consultation, the manager went and rattled
the bolts ofthe front doors ofthe hall, while the performers
slipped away at the back.
Everyone, the manager included, retreated safely; but
there is no doubt that the mob, inflamed by the super-
stitions of the old preacher, were out for alynching that
night.
Fortunately, the receipts were such for the preceding
days that not only was the rent of that hall paid, but the
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 35
generous Quaker who had engaged them the previous week
found his charges paid in full also.
I 867 1London 1Or, at least, the Crystal ?alace ; for it
was hardly accounted as London in those days. But still a
wonderful step forward for the two lads who had started
so boldly out of Cheltenham to give magic to the world.
Conjuring at this time was regarded rather in the light
ofa supplementary exhibition at a freak show 1The Crystal
Palace was famous for its 'freak shows, as was the Egyptian
Hall, where Maskelynes later gained a real foothold in
London.
And amazing exhibitions some of these freak shows
were ! They have gone out offashion now, but I will quote
you from a few of the old handbills of the time.
Valuable curiosities and living creatures collected by Mons. Boyle,
late of Islington. They include a strange living Creature that bears a
near resemblance to the Human shape in every part of his body but
where decency forbids us to make mention of it ; likewise an Oriental
Oyster Shell of prodigious size ; likewise the Philosopher's Stone, the
size of a poulet's egg, which was clandestinely stolen from the Great
Mogul's closet, this irreparable loss having so great an effect on him
that he pined himself to death. . . .
To be seen at Mr. Boverick's, Watchmaker at the Dial, near the
New Exchange in the Strand, at One Shilling each Person.
Or again:
A crane-necked carriage, the wheels turning on theu axles, ofivory,
together with six horses and their furniture, a coachman on the box,
a dog between his feet, the reins in one hand, the whip in the other,
two footmen behind, a postillion on the leading horse, all in proper
liveries, and the whole so small as to be drawn along at a good pace
by a flea. It has been shown to the Royal Family, and to' several of
the Nobility and Gentry. ·
Also a flea chained by a chain of zoo links, with a padlock and key,
all wrought, the chain, flea, padlock, and key weighing together but
one-third part of a grain.
Also a camel that passes through the eye of a needle ; and a pair of
steel scissors, able to cut a large horsehair, but six pairs can be wrapped
in the wing ofa fly••••
c
WHITE MAGIC
·It was among such curiosities as these, together with
Siamese Twins, dwarfs, mechanical marvels, queerly shaped
stones and automatic figures that the conjurer was thrown
in as a make-weight to a sophisticated public.
My grandfather's show, therefore, unsupported by
freaks of nature or art, depending for its effect on illusions
and conjuring with nothing extraneous to divert bored
attention, was very much in the nature of an experiment
when a daring manager gave it a trial at the Crystal Palace.
The trial was an instant and unquilified success. J. N.
produced his wonderful plate-spinning trick there for the
first time. In it he spun about a couple of score of ordinary
dinner-plates, one after the other, with inconceivable
rapidity, and away they went, spinning down a four-inch-
wide inclined gangway, and then round and round up a
spiral, mounting the sides of a sort of miniature Eiffel
Tower at the end, the total distance travelled being eight or
ten feet, and the plates, one after another, climbing to a
height two or three feet above that of the table-top from
which they had set out.
A great sensation was caused by the first performance
at this show of the now famous decapitation trick. Mr.
Cooke sat in a chair facing the audience, well away from the
backcloth, sides or any "properties".
J. N. then covered him with a shawl up to the neck,
proceeded to cut his head off, removed the shawl-and
there sat the headless trunk I
Subsequently, the "trunk" walked off the stage "with
its head toocked oonderneath its arm" I
Last and most wonderful, J. N.'s wife, smiling demurely
at the gaping spectators, stood free of scenery and curtains,
and as the magician waved his wand she rose slowly into
the air, with absolutely no visible means ofsupport.
Since he was always willing to give thoroughly good
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 37
measure, J. N. then passed a metal hoop up and down
round her body, to show that she was unsupported in any
way whatsoever.
When the curtain rang down after that first Crystal
Palace show it must have been a trying moment for the
little band of performers. Their future would be decided by
the response of that audience.
And then came the clapping 1It ros~ to shouting and
stamping and cheering that would not be stilled. As J. N.,
with his arm round his wife's shoulders, pushed through
the curtain to answer that urgent demand, he found himself,
for the first time in his life, unable to say anything.
His fluency, his patter, his marvellous assurance so
impervious to disappointment and failure-it had all gone.
It was left to the little figure of his "assistant" to say,
"Thank you, alii Oh, thank you 1" Then the cheering
began anew.
The new fashion in conjuring had captivated London's
fancy. _
Night after night, before audiences that packed the
Crystal Palace, the show gained fresh victories. The big
newspapers began to send their representatives to report on
what was fast becoming the talk of the town.
"They beat the spirits into fits 1" acknowledged The
Times, with unwonted levity.
The Davenports and their like faded into the back-
ground, making way for professional illusionists. But still
there did not lack people who claimed that J. N. was a
powerful medium, performing his wonders by means of
spirit aid and then refusing to give credit to his ghostly
helpers.
Others, more outspoken, said he was in league with the
Devil ; and so the old legend reared its head again. But
]. N. didn't mind; he liked it 1It was wonderful publicity.
WHITE MAGIC
Before the end of that first Crystal Palace engagement
he was putting back all the profits of the show into the
construction ofever-improving apparatus for the production
of magical tricks.
He made a walking-stick that lived up to its name, and
walked about the stage unaccompanied. He performed
variations of his decapitation trick that rendered onlookers
breathless.
The ovation which London gave to the new show
caused innumerable requests from the provinces for perfor-
mances there. Mr. Morton found the big towns ready to
welcome the magicians. Certain managers who had refused
him with open contempt only a few weeks before when he
needed bookings were now servilely anxious .to engage the
company.
To one, who had excelled his fellows in rudeness, the
following answer was sent :
My dear Sir, .
We have receivedyour offer to engage Messrs. Maske!Jne
& Cooke's companyfor two weeks. Oh, my dear Sir !
Yours incredulous!J . . .
They played in that town, but at a rival establishment.
Considerable judgment was shown by Mr. Morton in
keeping the show touring the provinces for several years
now that steady bookings were available. He had seen
many good performances put on in London before they
were sufficiently experienced and mature, and after
struggling on there for a year or two fade out again into
provincial insignificance.·
He and J. N. meant to go to London to stay when next
they invaded the capital.
For no less than six years they increased their reputation
in the big cities up and down England. New tricks were
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 39
steadily added to the repertoire, everything that the spiritu-
alists did was faithfully reproduced without supernatural
assistance, and J. N. experimented more and more among
the wonders that could be presented by the aid of his
ingenious machines and devices, hundreds of which he
patented at this time.
In 1873 another appearance was made at the Crystal
Palace. Stimulated by the long absence of the show from
London, Societyflocked to see the wonderful new magicians.
In addition to the tricks already famous, J. N. produced
some new ones for the occasion. His wife, radiant with the
memory offormer successes there, acted again as his assist-
ant. She rose into the air at his command, and floated there,
turning on her side and regaining an upright stance at will.
A bouquet was passed up to the stage in appreciation
of her turn. J. N. passed his wand over it, and it floated
across the stage by itself, and rose into her hand amid
thunderous applause.
Demure little Early Victorian as she was, the roses fro1n
the audience almost hid her \vhen the performance ended.
The time had come for·the greatest venture of all. Early
in I 87; the company moved from the Crystal Palace into
London proper, appearing at the St. James's Great Hall in
Piccadilly for one month.
London took Maskelyne and Cooke to itself. Famous
people, gossips, Society ornaments and the hoi polloi came
in their thousands, and went away marvelling and anxious
to tell their neighbours about it.
A couple ofengagements, booked some time previously,
were fulfilled at Croydon and Islington. Then, on May 2.6th,
187;, a three months' tenancy was commenced of the small
hall ofthe Egyptian Hall in Piccadilly.
The Maskelyne show was so different from anything
hitherto attempted in the conjuring line that rivals of
WHITE MAGIC
various sorts tried hard, during that initial three months, to
drive the invaders back to the provinces.
A tremendous reception during the first week sharpened
the jealousy that was already beginning to be openly shown.
J. N. was branching out, engaging assistants outside the
trio of himself, his wife and Mr. Cooke ; and his rivals
started their campaign by making friends with a minor
magician who had obtained a job in the new company.
This man had to appear-or rather disappear-in the
celebrated Box Trick. One night the opposition plied him
well with liquor before he went on the stage.
He seemed sober enough, but trouble came later. In
all disappearing tricks there is a cue to show that the vanish-
ing has been successfully completed. Till this cue is heard
the illusionist naturally dare not proceed with the trick.
No cue came. J. N. extemporized lines to fill the gap,
but still there was no cue. Finally he had to open the box-
and the man was lying inside in a drunken sleep.
J. N. told the audience that he would now vanish two
men at once, since one alone seemed difficult. Mr. Cooke
came on, got into the box, and was sealed and roped up.
The drunken magician, whom J. N. pretended to have
hypnotized to account for his stupor, was placed in a chair
in the middle of the stage, and a sheet draped over him.
At a waveofthewandhe vanished (with a bump, through
a trap-door 1) and Mr. Cooke disappeared from the box.
"Dr. Lynn", a famous magician then performing in
another part of the Egyptian Hall, found the new show
affecting his receipts. He brought an action saying that the
new-comers were giving "dramatic performances".
The Hall was not licensed for such performances, and it
was true that J.N.was alreadypresenting magic playlets. But
the attack failed; all it did was to bring valuable publicity.
The Egyptian Hall ceased, in public parlance, to be the
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 41
Egyptian Hall. It became "England's Home of Mystery''-
]. N.'s new name for his own section. Within the first three
months' tenancy Maskelyne's Magic had dwarfed all rivals
there into mere side-shows.
That three months' tenancy was extended. It lasted, in
the end, over thirty years, and was then only abandoned in
order that Maskelyne's might move to its own theatre,
St. George's Hall in Regent Street.
But]. N. would not rest on his laurels. He meant the
public to have ever-changing novelties, each more astound-
ing than the last. And in the summer of 1873, when the
show had hardly been in London six weeks, there came to
see him one day a typical Lincolnshire farmer, slow in
speech and quiet in manner, who said he had something to
show that might interest a conjurer.
Mter an hour spent studying roughly drawn plans,
and listening to rather inconclusive explanations, J. N.
offered to go to Lincolnshire to see a mechanical man which
the farmer, a Mr. John Clarke, had invented.
On his :ietum from the country J. N. went straight to
Cooke.
"I've discovered a bigger marvel than anything we've
made ourselves-so far," he said in great excitement. "It's
a mechanical man that can do arithmetic, spell and play
cards. I've guaranteed a very big price for it-more than
we can spend at present, but we must raise the money.
This thing is going to create a great sensation."
That was how the world-famous Psycho was born.
In order to perfect the farmer's invention, which was
nothing like the Psycho afterwards presented by my grand-
father to an astounded London, J. N. opened a very large
workshop at the Egyptian Hall. This workshop was the
parent of the shops which have ever since provided about
sixty per cent of the vital essentials of all Maskelyne shows
WHI'I'E MAGIC
right down to the present day. We have always been more
mechanical illusionists than conjurers proper.
Psycho was a dwarf figure to which the face of a mild
Hindu was later added. He had clockwork entrails, and
was seated on a transparent glass cylinder.
J. N. worked steadily on that little figure for two years,
and before that Mr. Clarke, the inventor, had put in years
of spare time on its construction. When Psycho made his
bow to the public on January 13th, 1875, he could nod,
give the masonic grip, work extraordinarily intricate sums
in addition, multiplication and division, perform minor
conjuring tricks, spell, smoke cigarettes, and play whist.
He sat there, in the middle of the stage, without wires
or tubes connecting him to anything extraneous, supported
on his transparent pedestal, apparently perfectly detached
from any connection whatsoever with human or outside
mechanical assistance.
It was his whist that made him famous. He not merely
played-he won I In the course of many thousands-tens
of thousands-of games, he lost less than a dozen times I
He played with most ofthe celebratedwhist exponents of
his time, including Mr. Cavendish, Dr. Pole, and "Trumps"
of the Field newspaper.
Kings and Princes, as well as endless thousands of the
general public, examined him and wondered at him. Other
conjurers tried to duplicate him, and failed hopelessly. The
nearest approach was Cynthia, exhibited at Sadler's Wells
Thea~e by Dr. Pepper, but it broke down, though it was
infinitely less skilful than Psycho.
Psycho created a furore when he appeared in London.
Racehorses, music-hall turns, overcoats and endless other
things were named after him.
After innumerable performances in public, J. N. with-
drew him, mainly because it was feared that his delicate
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 43
mechanism might be affected by having worked for so long
without a rest. He is in the London Museum now, and he
could play a game of whist at any moment. Even to this
day his construction remains a family secret.
Although J. N. paid a very good price for the original
conception of Psycho, he was so delighted at its enormous
success in public that he persuaded Mr. Clarke subsequently
to accept a very fine present as some acknowledgment of
the little whist-player's triumphs. The action was typical of
the man.
But I have gone ahead of my story somewhat. Psycho,
though J. N. began work on him in 1873, did not appear
till two years later.
Meanwhile London Hocked to the Egyptian Hall to
see the box trick, the decapitation illusion, the mysteries of
levitation, and all the other surprises that Maskelyne and
Cooke could offer.
Mr. William Morton, who had "fathered" the show in
its provincial days, and made possible its advent in London,
was still manager, and remained so for many years. But
Mr. Morton, who later became famous throughout Eng-
land as a theatre manager, and who sponsored many of
the most celebrated figures of our time, will forgive me,
I know, if I say that already J. N. was emerging as the big
figure of the company.
Mr. Morton, incidentally, is still alive, and is known, I
think, to every man, woman and child in Hull, where he
has now settled. He came to see a show of my own only the
other day and sent me a letter of congratulation which I
shall always treasure.
I will quote just one sentence from that letter. It reads: "I
\Vas gladto noticeacarpenter'sbenchinyourdressing-room."
The Maskelyne tradition, you see, still survives, and we
are mechanics yet.
CHAPTER IV
Rival establishments-The spirits offer a partnership-A Royal
Command Performance-Dr. Slade exposed-Zoe-Fanfair and
Labial-A Royal birthday show-Mr. Cooke-]. N.'s com-
mercial inventions.
WHEN Maskelyne and Cooke's show had been at the
Egyptian Hall nearly a year, a spirituilist rival establish-
ment set up business at the Hanover Square Rooms, in the
person of a Miss Eva Fay. At first no supernatural aid was
claimed by this lady, who was, incidentally, about the
earliest real platinum blonde on record.
Mter a time, however, she advertised the fact that a
familiar of the rather pleasant name of "Sweet William"
produced the table-knocking and chair-movements on
which her fame was based. She announced that William had
been a carpenter by trade during his earthly life, and had
him drive a nail into a piece of wood to convince any
doubters, which, of course, was proof positive.
Surprisingly enough, J. N. still remained an agnostic.
He and Cooke reproduced precisely on the stage at the
Egyptian Hall every detail which William and his little
blonde medium (assisted by her husband) could accomplish.
But J. N. explained the workings of each trick as he did it.
This gave the Hanover Square spooks a bit of a jolt. Miss
Fay's business agent, who seems to have been almost
human, wrote to my grandfather on May 12th, x875,
complaining that his principal was not properly supported
by the Spiritualists, and offering, for a modest consideration,
to expose the whol~ affair. His letter read :
44
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 45
This will complicate (implicate?) at leas/ six big g1111s. • • • Miss Fay
is in the n'ng ofall the best mediums in London, andgets leiters every day that
will be big to work upon.
J. N. apparently wrote in an interested strain, and in
another letter, dated from Malvern on May 24th the same
year, the business gentleman wrote what was obviously
the spirit's last offer :
Some of the parleys that I named in my las/ to you are trying to permade
Miss Fay to go to Amen"ca, and I am getin tired ofmessing about in thi,· way.
. • . I have another prettyyoung lacfy that I can bring out, and if I persone!J
can will use all names and show the whole thing up as being the introducer of it
to London.
The Old English form of spelling employed in these
letters by the denizens of the other "spear" is quaint and
interesting.
Miss Fay, finding the Egyptian Hall programmes
affecting the cynical masses, was guided to go to America,
while her business manager brought out the other pretty
young lady as threatened, for a short and unsuccessful
provincial season.
"England's Home of Mystery" at the Egyptian Hall
flourished while its rivals withered.
A Japanese top-spinning trick, ventriloquism, repro-
duction of new spiritualistic phenomena, and similar
novelties were added to the Davenport reproductions,
levitation and decapitation. London flocked in endless
crowds to see the new marvels.
On January xxth, 1875, J. N. received his first Royal
Command for a performance of magic at Sandringham,
before Prince Edward of Wales and Princess Alexandra,
who were entertaining a distinguished party of guests
there.
This was, I believe, the very first Command show of
magic in a Royal presence since the days when jugglers
were a recognized part of mediaeval Courts.
WHITE MAGIC
It was an enormous success ! The Davenport Box Trick,
with all its latest additions, was performed by my grand-
father and Mr. Cooke. They wished a really elaborate and
satisfactory performance to result, so they went to the
trouble of taking movable scenery in considerable quanti-
ties with them, which was erected before the trick was given.
When it had ended the Royal party were so delighted
with it that an encore was specially requested. But by this
time, in readiness for the next illusion, scene-shifters had
carefully backed from the Royal presence carrying the
scenery and apparatus with them !
Of course everything had to come back and be set
quickly into place. The Box Trick was then performed
again, after which the scene-shifters once more picked up
their unwieldy loads and backed, loyal but perspiring, out
of the room.
Grandfather used often to tell us children this story,
and to recount all the details of this first magic performance
before the man who later became Edward VII. Of all the
turns, the Prince and Princess applauded his plate-spinning
trick most. And truly it looks big magic, for I have often
watched Grandfather perform it for our amusement when I
was a small boy.
The Daily Telegraph of the time commented on the
extraordinary dexterity to which fingers can be educated, as
demonstrated by this trick. When J. N. showed it to me, I
remember, he presented the other side ofthe picture.
He told me he had smashed dozens and hundreds of
plates in perfecting the turn, and created a heap of broken
crockery that looked like a young mountain 1He also said
that it would be quite possible for a business man to educate
his fingers and brains in his own affairs so that he could write
two important letters simultaneously, one with each hand.
American business hustlers, please copy-if they can !
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 47
At this time, and for the rest of his life up to within
less than a month ofhis decease, J. N. worked twenty hours
a day, and slept four hours.
This sounds impossible, but I know it to be true. He
died "in harness" as a result, but I think he would rather
have had it that way. I have never met such an indefatigable
worker anywhere else. "
He was in his workshops, experimenting with the
apparatus for new illusions or whittling away at one of his
innumerable non-theatrical inventions, at six o'clock in
the morning, winter or summer. He worked all through the
day, with brief stops for meals, either in the shops or on
the stage rehearsing new illusions. He played in the theatre
every afternoon and evening, and stayed up till two o'clock
next morning dealing with business correspondence,
arranging his affairs or puzzling out new turns.
But he was never too busy to accept a Spiritualist
challenge. When Daniel Home practised a rather feeble
sort of levitation at a seance, J. N. responded by floating a
woman over the heads of the audience at the Egyptian
Hall. When Charles Williams raised "the ghost of John
King", J. N. exorcised a second and identical John King,
who walked in spirit form the boards of the illusionist's
stage.
Then, in July 1876, "Doctor" Slade set up in Upper
Bedford Place, Bloomsbury, and began to raise the dead to
some purpose. Dr. Slade introduced a new trick, that of
persuading his ghostly friends to write on slates. J. N. sent
to Dr. Slade a couple of slates so bound and sealed together
that no human agency could unfasten them without leaving
obvious marks-and asked the spirits to write on the inner
faces ofthe slatu.
This impious request was rightly refused. I have the
slates to this day.
WHITE MAGIC
In due course Dr. Slade appeared at Bow Street police
court, where he tried with notable unsuccess to convince
Mr. Flowers, the magistrate, that there was nothing up his
sleeve. J. N. was called as a witness, and demonstrated in
court how it was possible to write on a slate, sponge out the
words, and make them reappear there a short time later,
as large as life and twice as natural.
There was a certain amount of laughter in the court
when J. N. gravely explained that this trick was worked
not by using a common slate pencil, but by employing a
special stylo which he nominated a Slade pencil.
Dr. Slade was committed for three months' hard labour
as a rogue and a vagabond, but his sentence was reduced
on appeal. However, the spirits did not operate in London
after that, apparently feeling disgusted at the vulgar recep-
tion of their marvels offered by learned exponents of the
British law.
Since Psycho had been such an enormous success, J. N.
had worked steadily on the production of other automata.
In I 877 he proudly announced what he felt then was his
masterpiece-Zoe, the charming little mechanical lady, who
could sketch the profile of any celebrity chosen by the
audience, and sketch it with the hand of a master of the
pencil.
Zoe sat on a slender mahogany pedestal in the centre of
the stage and held a pencil. A sheet of paper, on a drawing-
board, was suspended in front of her. Before each perform-
ance, a committee of inspection from the audience was
invited to come and examine the little lady, and discover, if
possible, the secret of her powers. Needless to say, no one
ever succeeded in doing that I
The Morning Post, welcoming the advent of Zoe, wrote :
Mr. Maskelyne, more complacent than Frankenstein, has created
a Titania for his Oberon. Psycho is to be envied. A lovely companion,
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 49
always smiling, never contradicting him, never troubling him about
bills, or talking of the last sweetlthing in bonnets I As graceful as
Angelica}Kauffman, the mystery of her being istenhanced by the
sheet of glass under the stand upon which she sits. A marvellous piece
of mechanism, and does great honour to her maker, whose creative
ingenuity is wholly without precedent, and seems to defy rivalry.
When Zoe was originally ready 'to "come out", J. N.
suddenly hit upon a minor improvement for her, and her
public appearance was delayed six months in order that,
by infinite meticulous work, she could be made even more
perfect than before.
Alas for human endeavour I Zoe, rated by her creator
as far superior to Psycho, was a comparative failure. Her
sketches bore the impudent perfection of Whistler-but
Psycho's whist held more elements of suspense. Mter a
year or two ofwork, Zoe was ruthlessly withdrawn, because
]. N.'s motto was always "The public knows what it
wants I"
What a difference between this future holder of St.
George's Hall and the B.B.C. who rule there at present I
The Maskelyne tradition of automaton wonders did not
wane with Zoe. Fanfair and Labial made their bow in 1878.
The former played the cornet, the latter the euphonium.
They were scholarly little men, with the long locks and
dreamy eyes of true musicians. One sat on a chair, the
other on a music-stool. They were set in the middle of the
stage, free from any connection with the sides, roof or-
apparently-the floor, and they performed sweetly and
accurately any popular piece of music asked for by the
audience. -
Highbrow or low, it was all the same to them. The
audience could come up and examine them from every
side. No works were apparent, no clockwork ticking or
whirring was audible, there were no electric wires or air-
pipe connections. There they sat, mysterious, complacent
50 WHITE MAGIC
and earnest, and a good deal more human than some modern
musicians I have met.
J. N. not only created all these various automata him-
self; he made their faces, their hair, their realistic hands
and feet, inserted their teeth and eyelashes, superintended
the very cut oftheir clothes. They were as much his children
as were my father and uncle.
But why should I pay tribute to the musical twins and
their mechanical confreres? A. J. Phasey, solo-euphonium
player to that exacting lady Queen Victoria, published in
the Mmical World of January 4th, 1879, a letter from which
I might venture to quote :
Labial's observance of light and shade filled me with wonder.
. . . The lip-action is as perfect as with a human being ; and, in his
strict attention to the nuances, he was very far superior to many
professional artists. . . . I sat close to the stage, to notice whether
the fingering was correct or not. I found, to my astonishment, that the
passages were not only correctly fingered, but that Labial introduced
slurs and appogiaturas equally as well as any professor ofthe instrument.
The same year, 1879, J. N. received the sig~al honour
of a Royal Command to appear at Sandringham as a special
treat on the occasion ofour late King's fourteenth birthday,
on June 3rd.
By this time the Egyptian Hall show was one of the
great attractions of London town. Country cousins were
taken to see it ; a famous churchman ofthe time said publicly
that he considered that no child's education was complete
until he had been to England's Home of Mystery.
I wonder what the members of the original little Magic
Circle at Cheltenham thought of it all ? They would have
been family men by this time, some of them, and doubtless
they took their children or their nephews and nieces to see
Maskelyne and Cooke's when they were in London, and
told them marvellous tales of the Davenport seance at
THE STORY OF M.ASKELYNES . 51
Cheltenham Town Hall, and how everything had really
started from that.
In x88o, a new playlet was produced at the Egyptim
Hall, under the appropriate name of Cleopatra's Needle. In
this illusion, a small reproduction of the famous obelisk
appeared on the stage, raised from the floor and free of all
curtains and trappings. The temptations of St. Anthony
were then represented in dramatic form, all sorts of figures
emerging from the Needle, including the Devil himself;
but the good Saint found that the last of them, none less
than Royal Egypt herself, she who conquered that other
and even more famous Antony from Rome, was the worst
temptation of them all.
Mr. Cooke was in all these activities, of course, and was
throughout his career in the firm an invaluable and loyal
partner and a splendid magician. But he was by nature a
shy and retiring little man, of small stature and apparently
elastic bones, since his part was constantly to be fitted into
incredibly small boxes, roped and sealed and nailed inside,
and then spirited therefrom, answering from the gallery his
colleague's call from the stage.
]. N.'s more powerful presence eclipsed him somewhat
at times-indeed, there seems to have been a sort of general
idea if Mr. Cooke was wanted that he had better be looked
for in the nearest box 1But without his silent, unswerving
encouragement and assistance, Maskelyne's could never
have come into its own.
An illusion that caused a sensation at about this time was
that ofmaking a man out ofhis components. J. N. appeared
on the stage carrying what looked like a bundle of arms,
legs and general human assortments. These he dumped
down on the floor, picking them up one by one and exhibit-
ing them to show that each was genuinely separate from the
rest.
D
52 WHITE MAGIC
Then he would take the trunk, clap a leg on to it-and,
hey presto, the leg stuck ! Then would come an arm, clad
of course in the sleeve of a jacket, since each portion of
anatomy was already dressed in the appropriate portion of
garment. The arm was pushed against the trunk, and stayed
in its place.
Another leg followed ; then the second arm. The head,
its eyes open and intelligent and its hair glossy and curling,
was raised and stuck on to the neck of the trunk.
At this point J. N. waved his wand-and the figure
began to speak in a human voice, to laugh, to slap its creatpr.
on the back; and finally, after adjusting its tie, if walked
solemnly off the stage. It was obviously real.
One wonders what the body-snatchers of a rather earlier
date would have said to this one !
During these years, theatrical success having been
ensured in London, my grandfather began to turn his
amazingly active brain to perfecting some of the innumer-
able inventions which, had he been lucky as well as
ingenious, should have brought him a thousand times
greater fame than even the best of his stage shows.
His first masterpiece was a typewriter, for which he
devised, after much careful thought, the keyboard that has
since been adopted as universal. Itwas then theonly machine
in existence with differential spacing of the letters from one
another, so that a single line could hold, for instance, an
average oftwelve words, or ofeighteen words, or oftwenty-
four words, the change being effected by a simple lever
movement taking only a second to operate.
It had visible writing, could produce ninety-six char-
acters, and was practically noiseless.
A public company was formed with a capital of £5o,ooo
after this machine had finally been perfected. It was patented
all over the world. It was, to my mind, as good as most of
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES S3
the modern typewriters of today. One of them, indeed, is
still being used by a leading Streatham doctor. But the
venture was a complete failure, and cost J. N. infinitely
more than he ever got out of it.
In I 890, when typewriters were practically unheard of,
he ran a typing office at the Egyptian Hall, where legal and
scientific documents were typed for I }d. a folio, and authors'
MSS. for IS. per Iooo words. ~ .
. In writing of his inventions, I have to pick out for
mention just a few ofpeculiar interest, since it is hopeless to
enumerate them all.
He patented a means for operating gas-taps and electric
switches, which was the forerunner of the present thermo-
static control of which modern housewives are so proud
when they have it fitted to gas or electric cookers.
In addition to having a value for such cookers, J. N.'s
invention was devised so that electric and gas lights in
streets and public buildings would turn themselves on or
offat a set hour, as required. For houses, a further variation
turned on the light in a room when a visitor opened the
door and turned it out when the visitor left the room,
unless the switch had been moved aside as when the light
was needed throughout an evening.
Another patent concerned an improved method of
joining railway metals, and would have greatly simplified
points systems had it been brought into general use.
Yet another was a door-slot for the reception of pennies
in public conveniences, and for chocolate machines, and
similar automatic salesmen. This was almost unique among
his inventions, in that it was successfully marketed, and it is
to be seen to this day, still marked "Maskelyne Patent", on
certain of our railways and river steamers.
Maskelyne's Checking Apparatus Company almost
deserves a book to itself. When J. N. invented his auto-
54 WHITE MAGIC
marie bus-ticket checker, there was nothing at all like it in
existence, and it supplied a very real need.
The first checker consisted of an apparatus fitted over
the entrance of buses, and it kept a complete and
detailed record of all the business done by the vehicle in
question. It showed how many passengers had been carried ;
how long the bus took over each stage of its journey;
where passengers got on and alighted ; how much e~ch
paid in fare ; it protected the public from over-charge, and
even registered if anyone got on the wrong bus and left
without paying a fare.
To fit this device would have cost about £15 per bus ;
but the buses would have had to be changed slightly in
build, and-there was nothing doing 1
J. N. took the advice of the bus companies to try a
cheaper device. He produced a wonderful little machine,
and, over-persuaded by certain business men, sold the
patent for £5oo down and a royalty. The purchasers formed
a public company with a capital of £5o,ooo, and sold their
shares like hot cakes on the strength of J. N.'s name.
He had refused to join the company himself. But on
finding that the public had invested so heavily in it, and
fearing that it would fail, he came in eventually, to try to
make it pay by giving it the best work of his marvellous
brain.
He invented another bus checker, took out all the
patents at his own cost, and worked tirelessly to make it a
commercial success. It was a device 2. in. by 6 in., was worn
over the conductor's shoulder on a strap, and was worked
by one hand.
The fare taken registered in a glazed aperture facing the
passenger. Bells chimed the amount of each fare registered,
striking once for each penny paid. A plain ticket was used
for all values, the amount being perforated on it by the
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 55
checker. The amount of the fare was registered on an index
at the back of the checker, and the number of passengers
carried and fares issued was registered on another index at
the side.
All these operations were produced automatically by
setting a pointer on the machine to the figure that repre-
sented the number of pence paid, just as is done now on
the latest ticket-punch. The checker was simple, cheap to
produce, and could be worked by a child. It was better than
anything of the sort invented since.
Yet it failed to achieve public notice. No one would use
it or purchase the patent. The company failed, despite my
grandfather's efforts in its behalf-efforts that undermined
his health very seriously, so fiercely did he p:ursue them.
All J. N.'s stage inventions were enormously successful.
Every time he ventured out of the atmosphere of grease-
paint and footlights he failed conspicuously, with the
notable exception of certain work he did for the Govern-
ment and War Office, which I shall detail later.
The same qualities · that made him so supremely
successful in his work as a public entertainer-sincerity,
honesty and a burning desire to give the fullest value for
the public's money-earmarked him as a lamb for the
slaughter when he ventured into the more intricate realms
of Big Business.
In the end, I think Big Business lost a lot more than it
gained.
CHAPTER V
Will, the Witch andthe Watchman-A monkey goes to sleep-Maskelynes
in Australia-A grand piano sensation-J. N.'s crusade against
card-sharps-Bianco of Havana-How sharpers work-Some
U.S. magicians.
IT was about this time that J. N. first produced his famous
playlet, Will, the Witch and the Watchman. This was intended
chiefly as an amusing vehicle for the Box Trick that had so
confounded the Davenports.
During his first years in London J. N. used to present
the Box Trick following a short lecture on spiritualism and
its conjuring supporters. But public opinion was already
demanding something more dramatic and entertaining than
a rather solemn lecture ; even in those days audiences went
to the theatre rather to be entertained than to be educated,
though the principle is not wholly accepted even yet.
But my grandfather, with his sensitive touch on the pulse
of public desire, decided to scrap his lecture and build up
round the Box Trick a little magic sketch with laughs and
thrills all complete.
A cabinet built to represent an old-fashioned village
lock-up was ·wheeled on to the stage. This lock-up was
raised about a foot from the floor so that there was a clear
space beneath it, excluding the possibility of a trap-door
concealed in the stage below.
A big box with a canvas cover fitting over it, and a
length of rope, were also brought on t9 the stage; and a
committee from the audience was invited on to the stage to
examine both the lock-up and the box and accessories. Box
and lock-up were clearly shown to be empty.
56
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 57
Some of the committees were so anxious to detect the
working of the amazing tricks that followed that they
deputed one of their members to lie full length on the stage
with his head under the lock-up, staring upwards, while
another would sit on top of the lock-up, and a third on a
chair at the back. But none of them noticed any trickery,
though they were often so eager to do so that they remained
in their places quite oblivious to the play that was proceed-
ing on the stage around them.
The rest of the committee took up positions on the
stage wherever they wished-in front of the lock-up,
behind it, at the sides or anywhere else selected.
Then Daddy Gnarl (my father) entered in the guise of
an old squire, and a village Watchman accompanied him.
There followed on to the stage a pair of young lovers, Will
the Sailor and his sweetheart Dolly. Will was arrested for
jollying the Watchman, and thrust into the lock-up, and his
captor and Daddy Gnarl went off to celebrate the arrest in
the usual fashion.
Meanwhile, the distracted Dolly sees an old woman
(]. N. himself) creeping past, generously gives her a golden
guinea, and is told that she is a Witch, who proposes in
return to liberate Will.
The \Vitch causes a black monkey to materialize, and
this animal goes offand annoys the Watchman, who returns
to the stage in full chase, capturing both Witch and monkey,
both of \Vhom he'places in the lock-up. But both the latter
escape from and return to the lock-up as they wish, and the
\Vatchman's shouts for assistance bring a butcher (also
]. N.) on to the stage, who, in an effort to stab the monkey,
slices offa bit ofits tail.
This jumps about the stage on its own, much to the
astonishment of the Watchman, \Vho calls Daddy Gnarl
back to help him. Meanwhile, the butcher shuts himself
WHITE MAGIC
and the monkey into the lock-up. Opening the latter to see
that the butcher is safe, Gnarl finds that Will, the butcher,
and the monkey have all vanished, but the Witch is there.
The monkey is now seen hiding behind the lock-up, and
is captured and forced into the big box. The committee
from the audience then lock the box, keep the key, place
the canvas cover over the box, lace it up, knot the lace and
seal it, put a stout rope round the lot, and knot and seal
that. The box is then placed inside the lock-up, and the
latter closed and locked.
Gnarl, the butcher, and the Watchman are discussing
their triumph when a hairy arm emerges and touches them
from the lock-up. They fling open the door and lift out the
box, still sealed, roped and laced, but so light that obviously
the monkey is no longer within!
The Witch appears again with Dolly, and opens the
door of the lock-up, which the audience had seen only a
moment before quite empty. Will the Sailor is now standing
inside it.
Under the influence of the Witch, whose powers none
dare to cross further, the young couple are reunited and
given the blessing of the entire party.
This sketch, which my grandfather performed over
I I ,ooo times, was immensely successful, and was kept in
the programme at intervals for over forty years ! I have
often seen it performed. And though I know how it is done
and have played in it myself, I am still stricken afresh with
wonder each time I witness it.
The lock-up, raised from the floor, and with committee
members sitting all round it intent on discovering "the
works", produces figure after figure with bewildering ease
and incredible speed, yet it can only just hold two persons
at a time.
Once, in its early days, this trick caused a bit of a sen-
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES S9
sation. The action ran smoothly until the monkey was
captured, and the committee were asked to imprison him.
He was duly shut in the box, locked in, the canvas cover
was laced up and roped, and the box was put in the
lock-up.
The playlet ran on to the point where a cue should
have shown the other actors that the monkey had left the
box. But the cue was never delivered. With increasing
anxiety and difficulty, the actors extemporized lines to cover
the situation, waiting all the time for the missing cue.
As it did not come, they were forced eventually to open
the lock-up and lift out the box. By its weight they instantly
realized that the monkey was still within.
What had happened, in fact, was that the monkey, befort
taking the stage, hadfound a whisky flask, tmptied it, and then
gone to sleep in the box.
Without turning a hair, J. N. extemporized further
lines to meet the situation; the other actors followed his
lead; the playlet was lengthened a bit, to allow of the
monkey being brought back on to the stage after a some-
what rude awakening-and then the rest of the act was
played out perfectly according to programme l
The audience never realized that there had been a hitch.
Will, the Witch and the Watchman received a great
welcome in England, where it was the first long magic
playlet ever to be presented. But this was nothing to the
furore it created in Australia, when a Maskelyne company
was sent out to tour that country a few years later.
Such a sensation did it cause out there that the whole
of the programmes for the tour had to be modified to
include it at each performance. Its reputation went ahead
of it, and at a mining camp in Western Australia, where by
some accident the bills originally printed appeared with no
reference to the new inclusion on the programme, a depu-
6o WHITE MAGIC
tation of prospectors turned up and made a serious disturb-
ance on the opening night.
A couple of dozen of them rose to their feet as soon as
the curtain went up, and. flourished revolvers. They were
placed at strategic points all over the hall, and they shouted
in unison: "Don't any ofyou move if you value your lives.
We want Will, the Witch and the Watchman, or else we'll
shoot up the stage."
There followed the crash of a revolver volley as they
• all fired together into the floor at their feet. Then, while
the smoke still eddied about them, they all shouted in
chorus :"Are you going to let us have it?"
The brilliant young magician who was in charge of the
illusionist side of the tour courageously stepped to the front
of the stage, where he made a perfect target.
"You shall have it, boys !" he shouted ; and a
tremendous cheer answered him.
The playlet was put on first in the programme, since
the impatient miners were not in the mood to wait. A
committee was invited from the audience as usual, and it
tramped up on to the stage, revolvers, bowie-knives and
all.
The lock-up was closed on this occasion by an old-
fashioned padlock, the key of which was given to a burly
prospector among the committee.
"We'll see there's no damned hanky-panky, fellars !"
shouted this gentleman, waving the key at the audience ;
and then he calmly put the key between his powerful
yellow teeth and bit the end clean off; nipping through a
quarter of an inch of cold iron to do so.
The act was greeted with a howl of delight ; but of
course, when the door of the lock-up had later to be opened
in accordance with the action of the play, a quandary arose.
This did not deter the prospector, however. He simply
1' H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 6r
went to the lock-up door, took the padlockin one enormous
palm, thrust a stubby finger through the curved steel arc
above the lock, and forced it free, using his finger as a lever.
Mter the playlet had finished, amid absolutely thun-
derous applause punctuated sharply by the constant crack
ofrevolvers, Barclay Gammon, one ofthe finest entertainers
who ever appeared under the Maskelyne or any other
banner, gave a comedy interlude on the grand piano.
And there, as far as the official programme was con-
cerned, the show ended.
The miners had never seen a grand piano before. Many
had never seen a piano at all, except the cracked and broken-
stringed ruin that decorated the local saloon ; and among
these rough, often murderous, men there seems to have
been an extraordinary sentimental love of music.
While Will, the Witch and the Watchman had been running
the play had been almost submerged by a constant din of
encouragement, laughter and comment. Now Gammon's
first song was received in a startling silence.
With incomparable skill, the little entertainer assessed
the spirit of his audience, and went straight into a second
song, not a comic one this time, but a popular sentimental
ditty of the era about home and love and beauty.
Having sung the first verse, he turned to the breathless
audience.
"I want you all to join in the chorus, boys," he said.
They joined in, several hundred strong, blending their
rough voices in a marvellous natural choir. When that song
was done, first one and then a hundred voices demanded
"Home, Sweet Home!"
For the rest of the evening, hours after the sJ-low was
supposed to have finished, they were singing in chorus, one
song after another. Towards midnight, the big miner who
had bitten off the key-end yelled for silence.
62. WHITE MAGIC
"These boys want some sleep," he shouted. "We'll
have one more song, and then pack up. What's it to be ?"
All sorts of suggestions came crackling from various
parts of the hall, but suddenly more and more voices
blended demanding "Abide with me". The hymn was sung,
reverently and splendidly, and then Gammon shut the piano.
He rose and stretched his cramped legs, meaning to
leave the stage; but the next moment bags of gold-dust,
coins, rings and money-notes were falling on the stage like
a violent hailstorm.
Mter that, the arrangements for the tour had to be
changed again. At camp after camp in Western Australia
the magic show was turned into a sing-song that sometimes
- lasted for five or six hours at a stretch. The grand piano
became the star of the tour, and Will, the Witch and the
Watchman took a close second place. Other illusions were
crowded out, though they had been carefully rehearsed for
months beforehand.
Slowly passing on its way through the southern conti-
nent, Maskelyne's show travelled by ox waggon and on
horseback over thousands and thousands of miles. Perfor-
mances were given in gambling saloons and in tents; the
only available lighting was usually by means of candles.
Contractors with dozens and hundreds of empty boxes,
formerly containing bully-beef or explosives, used to hire
out their primitive seating at prices sometimes rising to £3
and£4a box.
Often enough, a good part of the audience was
coloured ; not only Australian Blackfellows but Chinese,
negroes and half-breeds of every shade and description.
Applause was generally marked by revolver salvos ;
and had the entertainers displeased their audiences the
probability is that the revolvers would have been turned
on them. However, amazing offerings of gold-dust and
'I' HE S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 63
other such tokens of appreciation followed nearly every
performance in the back-blocks.
The piano and Will, the Witch andthe Watchman remained
firm favourites; and nearly all the shows were ended with
sing-songs in which everyone joined. It was an astonishing
and tremendously successful tour.
It was shortly after the conclusion of this tour that my
grandfather conducted his short and startling campaign
against card-sharpers and gambling swindlers in Great
Britain.
At that time the country was overrun with these gentry
to a degree that has never been even remotely approached
since. The general public was not then aware-indeed, I
doubt whether it is so to this day-how ridiculously easy
it is for a skilled operator to change most card games from
chance to certainty; and J. N., with the same inherent
hatred of swindling that inspired him against the Daven-
ports, Miss Fay and others, rushed into a single-handed
campaign against the "sharps" of his day.
At the same time he inaugurated a rule which holds good
among all Maskelynes to this day-that none of us shall .
ever play cards for money. The reason is that our magic
knowledge would automatically engender suspicion against
us.
If you gave me, for instance, any selected card from a
pack whose seals you had just broken, and let me examine
the back of the card for only a couple of minutes, and then
examine the backs of the rest of the pack, I would defy you
to shuffle that pack as you liked, and I would then draw out
your selected card, wherever it might be among the rest,
within ten seconds or so, only examining the backs of the
cards the while.
It is not even now generally known that very many packs
of cards used in England are so printed that some almost
WHITE MAGIC
imperceptible variation on the back marks the face-value
ofeach card to a trained eye. It may be that a minute portion
of scroll-work turns right to indicate a King, left for a
Queen, upright for an Ace, and so on. Perhaps it is a vari-
ation in the glaze of the back ; or perhaps a hairbreadth
difference in the squareness with which the corners
are cut.
Almost always, the difference is there, and can be
detected. Mter that, the well-informed player knows just
what cards are held by his opponents, since suits are often
indicated also. And then, of course, the money staked on
the game is his for the taking.
Many years ago, one of the most colossal frauds the
world has ever known was undertaken by a brilliant card-
sharper of the name of Bianco.
At the time, Havana was the gambling-ground of the
world, and it was to Havana that Bianco went. Having
purchased in Spain about thirty thousand packs of unused
playing-cards, he opened every pack, marked every single
card in a manner only detectable to himself, and resealed
the packs in such a way that they seemed perfectly intact.
He had marked the cards not only in values, but in
suits. Then he set himself to learn the complicated system
of markings he had employed so that he could use it fast
enough to control by its means the quickest of card-games,
and so that he could detect by casual glances exactly what
cards others were holding without arousing suspicion.
This training took him over a year of intensive study
and practice ; and he admitted no associate to his plans.
During this period, too, he "cornered" the entire playing-
card trade of Havana by offering his marked packs- which
were good and expensive cards-at less than half the price
usually charged.
So successful was he that Havana dealers bought from
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 65
him exclusively, since no one else could offer them good
cards at anything approaching Bianco's price.
The sharp himself followed his cards to the island, and
settled down to make a fortune. His amazing memory
enabled him to carry out his scheme to perfection. Wherever
he played, the cards were ones he had marked; he allowed
himself to lose occasionally, but vast sums of money went
his way between these spells of chosen ill-fortune.
Alas for Bianco ! The best-laid plans are not always fool-
proof, and it was a man with the reputation of a fool who
found him out. Alys de Laforcade, ci-devant Count of the
old French regime, was considered in Havana a charming
man but lacking in shrewd common-sense.
This young man, however, became so friendly with
Bianco that he accompanied him to and fro about the
island ; and presently, having studied his methods, gently
broke the news to his Spanish friend that the secret by
which Dame Fortune was so successfully propitiated had
become his property also.
Biancq asked him what he proposed to do about it.
The ci-devant Count could hardly have been such a fool as
he looked, for he suggested introducing Bianco to the most
exclusive clubs and households of the island- places to
which the Spaniard's eyes had eagerly turned ever since the
opening of his golden campaign.
De Laforcade professed himself delighted to aid his
charming acquaintance-for a price. Such a simple little
price. Merely fifty per cent of the proceeds, with none of
the work and none of the risks.
It says something for Bianco's takings that he accepted
the terms without much demur.
And so the adventurer began a new phase ofhis meteoric
career. The oldest and most exclusive society of Havana
greeted him, and played for high stakes with him.
66 W H I T E M .A G I C
The French nobleman, hitherto genteelly impoverished,
explained with his delightful simper, to all who would listen,
that his dear maternal grandfather, a Spanish nobleman, had
just regrettably passed away, yet had had the forethought
to leave his worthless scion his entire fortune.
De Laforcade took a splendid house, entertained royally
(and played cards occasionally), got together a stables that
was the envy ofthe island, and established an almost world-
wide reputation as a dilettante in wine, women and pleasure.
At the height of his fame, Bianco vanished (having for
over a year "cooked the books" of the infamous partner-
ship to an amazing degree, since naturally de Laforcade
could not check the takings), and the Frenchman was left
enormously in debt.
This his sensitive soul might have home, but in
addition irrefutable evidence reached the society of Havana
that he was a card-sharper, and that his fortune had been
amassed by his play rather than from his Spanish relative.
He was brought before the Tribunal, the whole story of the
marked cards came to light (but with de Laforcade playing
the principal role and Bianco not even mentioned), and after
a long case the Frenchman was acquitted, because it could
not be proved that he had imported the cards himself. He
dared not mention Bianco for fear of thus admitting his
own guilt.
However, his name, fame and fortune were broken,
and he died miserably not long afterwards, while Bianco
was last heard of as a great and pious patron of the Church
in his own beloved Spain.
I do not think that anyone of the skill and energy of
the late-lamented Mr. Bianco has ever operated in England,
though there have been queer dealings here at times, as is
testified by the fact that King Edward VII, when Prince of
Wales, went into the witness-box to defend the reputation
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 67
of a friend of his who had been accused of cheating at
cards.
But certainly, in my grandfather's:time,- the country
was riddled with clever sharps, and his brief but decisive
campaign to expose them must have done them enormous
harm, and crippled their activities for many years.
He explained in newspapers, at lectures and in a fascin-
ating bookentitled Sharps andFlats, all the principal methods
of swindling, and dealt in full with the mysteries of marked
cards, hold-outs, reflectors, dice, collusion, race-gangs and
several other kinds of swindle.
He made it abundantly clear-though the fact has since
been forgotten by the public-that several big firms, both
in England and America, exist largely by reason of their
sales of the complicated apparatus used by card-sharpers.
This includes clips and wrist-bands for holding high
cards secretly removed from the pack; machines for mark-
ing, squeezing, clipping and roughening valuable cards ;
ready-marked packs, weighted dice, clipped coins guaran-
teed to fall always the same way up on being spun, faked
roulette outfits ; secret mirrors for use at cards ; acid for
shading the backs; coat machines for card manipulation,
and a hundred other devices for the undoing ofthe unwary.
J. N. also exposed the innermost secrets of the way in
which sharping gangs work, playing in combination to
rob innocents and sharing out proceeds afterwards, spend-
ing years studying legerdemain and manipulation, having
their agents at the Universities, in the City, on the Riviera,
on all long-distance liners and trains, and often going
through a course of training which makes them as skilful
in conjuring and illusion as most of the professional
magicians who appear on the stage.
Even today card-sharping and similar methods of
plucking the down from the unfledged are highly organized
E
68 WHITE MAGIC
professions with world-wide ramifications. Any retired
liner skipper can tell you that the gangs that work the
Atlantic, for instance, make fabulous fortunes, and are
well-known to one another, and to stewards and detectives
on both sides, though they aie mostly too sharp to be caught
doing anything illegitimate.
I have not space in this book to go at all fully into the
subject of what one might call card-magic, but at least I
can warn readers against that elementary and yet immensely
lucrative hoax, the three-card trick, commonly known as
"Find the Lady".
A stranger comes into a railway carriage, and other
members of his gang drift in later, none apparently being
known to any other. The sharper gets out a pack of cards
"to while away the journey", selects three, one ofwhich is a
Queen, shuffles them face-down, and invites anyone present
to pick out the Queen.
First one confederate and then another selects the_
Queen
quite successfully, after repeated shuffiings ; and finally one
of them puts a shilling on his choice, and wins. The dealer
loses about nine times out of ten until some greenhorns are
drawn into the game by the apparent ease \vith which money
can be made at it.
Now, by a simple bit of legerdemain, the dealer varies
his handling of the cards, and the Queen is never the card
selected by the greenhorns. Stakes are raised as high as
possible before the innocents enter the game ; after that
money changes hands with tremendous celerity.
The great attraction of the trick is that no one not in
the secret can believe that his eye has deceived him until
the selected card is turned face-up; it seems as if the eye has
never left it since it was turned up previously, and that it
must be the Queen.
That it is not, in the event, thousands of astonished
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 69
travellers who have been swindled in this way can testify,
up and down the length of Britain.
A variation of this trick, painfully well known to almost
all Americans, which has recently become somewhat of a
feature on our own fair-grounds, is that in which a pea is
hidden under one of three walnut shells, and the gambler
is invited to put his money on the shell which he thinks
hides the pea.
This trick was first presented on the stage by Harry
Kellar, one of the cleverest magicians ofall time.
Kellar became famous while touring with an illusionist
company near his home in Pennsylvania. In I 868 he joined
the Davenport Brothers, but as a magician, not a spiritualist.
Later on he came to London, where he threw himself with
extraordinary vigour into the production and staging of
some clever automata.
He started with an imitation of my grandfather's
"Psycho", but it broke down frequently, and could only
perform elementary tricks. Nothing daunted, Kellar intro-
duced "Echo" and "Phono", two mechanical musician
figures that directly copied J. N.'s "Fanfair" and "Labial",
but could not play a tithe of their repertoire, and were also
subject to frequent irritating periods when they went on
strike altogether.
"Clio" was his next attempt ; an automaton that was
produced in rivalry to my grandfather's "Zoe", the drawing
figure. But "Clio" was not much of an artist, and had a very
short life in London.
Despite his ill-success with automata, Kellar was a
most accomplished illusionist and conjurer, and held
for many years in America the position that J. N. did in
England.
His natural successor in the art of card-manipulation
on the stage was Howard Thurston, another American
WHI T E M A G IC
magtoan. He joined forces with Kellar, and built up a
great reputation with an infinite variety of brilliant card
tricks, and later with some very fine and startling illusions.
In a recent American book on magic I saw myself referred
to as "The Thurston ofEngland". I can hardly do less than
pay this accomplished magician the return compliment, and
call him the Maskelyne of America.
CHAPTER VI
Maskelynes on tour-The Phcmix Park murders-Famous magicians
come to the Egyptian Hall-The vanishing ring !-Magicians
at the Sultans' Courts-Devant joins the show-J. N.'s war
balloons-"Movies" at Maskelynes-A £tooo challenge-The
Devil in Piccadilly.
MAsKELYNE AND Coo:rrn's, with only a few years between
them and their struggling provincial days, took the bold
step at about this time of sending touring companies of
magicians round the big townS' of Great Britain. One of the
first places visited \Vas Cheltenham, where doubtless the
show created a good deal of sentimental interest.
J. N. went in person with his first touring company to
visit Ireland. He always preferred to break new ground
himself; and on this occasion his fancy nearly involved
him in serious trouble.
On the opening night in Dublin, where the company
was engaged for a five weeks' season by Messrs. Guinness,
the brewers, who were then running a big exhibition in the
Irish capital, a member of the audience objected pointedly
to J. N.'s opening speech.
"Shut up your bloody preaching and get on with the
magic 1" came a yell from the gallery.
Instantly came back the answer: "I'm getting on with
it 1 I'm trying to make you disappear-for the benefit of
your immediate neighbours 1"
During this Irish visit, feeling ran very high against
England and all things English. On the evening ofMay 6th,
1882, as 'J. N. was strolling through Dominion Street on
his way to the theatre he saw a couple of young roughs
7I
WHITE MAGIC
tace past him and disappear down a side-turning ahead.
They cattied revolvers, and glanced fearfully back as they
tan. My grandfather always believed that these two men
were the murderers of Lord Frederick Cavendish, who was
shot that evening while walking in the adjacent Phcenix
Park, and that they were then running ftom the scene oftheir
crime.
Latet in the same visit, J. N. was in a street somewhere
near the Four Courts when some prison vans passed him
guarded by mounted police. A great mob followed, jeering
and yelling and throwing bottles and stones at the police,
who turned and charged them two or three times.
The magic show, however, did not suffet at all ftom the
anti-English demonstrations. Every night the seats were
packed, and despite some crude chaff and shouting the
audience seemed thoroughly satisfied with the performances.
By this time Maskelyne had become a gteat name in
the world ofmagic. illusionists famous not only in England,
but abroad, commenced to approach J. N., seeking the
honour of appearing under his management.
One of the first whom he accepted as an assistant was
Charles Bertram, one of the most handsome men ever to
appear on the stage. Bertram was popular wherever he
went. He appeared no less than twenty-two times before
King Edward VIT, and also gave innumerable performances
ofmagic at the houses ofcelebrities and nobilities.
He may be said to have initiated the practice of giving
illusionist shows at private parties at Christmas and other
times-a form ofmagic demonstration which keeps me very
busy nowadays, and which sometimes causes me to give
three or four shows a day in addition to my stage perform-
ances.
Bautier de Kolta was one of the cleverest magicians
who evet joined Maskelynes. He was very famous when
'I' HE S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 73
he came to the Egyptian Hall in 187.s, in direct competition
to Grandfather and Mr. Cooke. Eleven years later he joined
J. N.'s company, bringing with him a very pretty illusion
which he entitled "The Vanishing Lady".
In this trick a small mat was placed on the stage and on
it a lady sat in an ordinary small chair. The mat precluded
any possibility of a trap-door beneath her being used for
her subsequent disappearance, yet disappear she did the
moment a cloth was draped over her. De Kolta whipped
away the cloth almost as soon as he had arranged it ; but
the lady was gone.
]. N. bought this illusion from de Kolta, and also
purchased the chair in which it was first performed. That
same original chair was used recently by Miss Gracie Fields
in making her charming talkie, "Sing As \Ve Go", and
Gracie vanished as suddenly and surprisingly in that film
as did the original disappearing lady fifty years ago.
For some years de Kolta and Bertram were very popular
figures at the Egyptian Hall. Not all their tricks, however,
went off without a hitch.
On one occasion Bertram was performing a clever bit
of conjuring when "something went wrong with the
\vorks", and the result cost my grandfather nearly £Iooo.
A big diamond ring had been borrowed by the magician
from a lady in the audience. Bertram put the ring in an
ordinary envelope, sealed it, set fire to a corner of the
paper, allowed the envelope to burn away to ashes-and
the ring had disappeared.
He then made a big paper cone, showed it empty to
the audience, doubled over the end, and lo I the paper cone
began to move convulsively. Bertram opened it up, and
there inside was a live dove, with the ring fastened about
its neck by means ofa piece ofblue ribbon.
According to theory, the dove should have circled
74 WHITE MAGIC
round above the heads of the audience, returned to Ber-
tram's hand, and allowed the ring to be detached from the
ribbon and returned to the owner. On this occasion, how-
ever, someone had foolishly left open one of the theatre
ventilators.
The dove flew straight to this ventilator, slipped through
it, and flew out into the world, with the £xooo-ring still
round its neck 1
Ofcourse there was a hue and cry, particularly from the
lady when she found that her wonderful ring had vanished
so realistically. Stage hands were sent rushing out into the
streets to try to locate the dove. Inside the theatre mild
pandemonium reigned. But the dove was never seen again
-at least, not by its rightful owners. J. N. had to recom-
pense the loser of the ring, and get as much advertisement
as he could out of the affair as it stood.
Charles Morritt, Edward Longstaffe, James Stuart,
Sidney Oldridge and many other clever magicians became
famous at about this time, and most of them appeared at
one period or another under J. N.'s triumphant banner.
A most interesting member of the conjuring fraternity
who joined Maskelynes in the last decade of last century
was Douglas Beaufort. In addition to being one of the
£nest illusionists of his age, Beaufort was a man of remark-
able personality and great gifts.
During his career he was selected by the British Foreign
Office to accompany Sir Charles Ewan Smith and the British
Mission to Fez, there to give a series ofperformances before
Mulai el Hassan, the Sultan ofMorocco. Already there were
murmurs of coming trouble in North Mrica, which later
came to a head in Egypt, the Soudan and elsewhere. It was
vital to us at the time to secure the friendship of Morocco.
France, which had rival interests in Africa, had, so it
was said at the time, added beauties to the Sultan of
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 75
Morocco's harem, and had given him a little hand-movie
apparatus that showed Paris night-life at its gayest. So
England replied by sending out Mr. Beaufort and his magic
to charm the royal heart into an even greater sympathy
towards Great Britain.
· In travelling from the coast to Fez, the Sultan's capital,
the illusionist gave some impromptu performances. The
Arabs had never seen magic of this sort before, and so
greatly did it outshine the efforts of their own snake-
charmers, jugglers and marabouts that an enormous
reputation preceded Mr. Beaufort to the Royal Court.
Indeed, too much success almost defeated its own
ends I For sick and maimed people en route were carried
to see the new "Devil Man", as he was respectfully called,
and, some ofthese growing better because Nature and their
faith willed it so, the illusionist suddenly developed the pro-
portions of an almost national figure.
As a result, when he reached Fez the Sultan was
altogether too frightened to see him at alii
For eight weeks the dusky royalty lurked furtively
within the Palace confines lest the visiting magician should
cast a spell over him. Finally, however, curiosity got the
better of his fear.
A great gala performance was arranged to take place
before the Sultan and his whole Court within the precincts
of the Palace. The place chosen adjoined the royal harem,
and was patrolled at night by three powerful lions, which
had never been tamed, and would have attacked an intruder
on sight.
While Mr. Beaufort was preparing for his performance,
three or four of the royal ladies slipped swiftly round a
portico into a hidden corner, to try to watch the proceed-
ings. But a black eunuch saw them and advanced on them,
beating them savagely about the shoulders with a heavy
WHI'I'E MAGIC
stick, and driving them back to the seclusion of their own
quarters.
The Sultan, surrounded by over a score of his sons and
all his chief Ministers, finally took his place on the throne
and nervously indicated that Mr. Beaufort should begin.
At first, the dark-skinned ruler was so nervous that he
showed signs of fright as each trick approached its climax.
But soon he was absolutely fascinated by the performance,
and watched with his mouth half-open in sheer astonish-
ment.
Once the illusionist advanced towards the Sultan so
that he could watch closely the performance of a rather
intricate trick. His Majesty shuffled to his feet, looked
round for an avenue of escape, and held out his hands as
if to ward off the conjurer's approach. ·
Later, however, gaining courage, he suddenly swept
down from his place, advanced to Mr. Beaufort, and
hoarsely commanded him to produce a handful of living
snakes from his mouth.
For a moment the reputation not only of the visitor, but
ofEngland, was at stake.
"Englishmen despise snakes, Your Majesty," was the
quick-witted reply. "We have no dealings with them, and
consider them unclean. But I will do something even more
wonderful-! will produce a great number of eggs from
the mouth of your own interpreter !"
The Sultan was more than satisfied. As egg after egg
came neatly from the mouth of the official named His
Majesty stepped nearer and nearer and repeated in a hypno-
tized voice: "More 1 More! More!"
The climax of the performance was reached when the
illusionist gave an exhibition of ventriloquism, of which he
was a master. So certain was the Sultan that this was the
work of confederates that he had the Palace precincts
T H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 77
searched ; and each time a voice sounded from behind a
hanging or beside a pillar, a huge negro soldier armed
with a drawn scimitar ran to the spot; and it would have
gone hard, probably, both with the assistants and himself
had Mr. Beaufort's trick not been genuine ventriloquism
of the highest order.
At the end of the show, the Sultan, who was in tre-
mendous glee, ordered that the magician should sing to
himl
A difficulty arose. No European singer could give a
satisfactory performance accompanied by the zithers and
tambourines of Morocco, yet the one and only piano in
Fez was in the Palace of Kaid Harry Maclean, the Scottish
Commander-in-Chief of the Moorish Army, who was
present at the time, and his home was over a mile away.
However, Mr. Beaufort decided to sing unaccompanied,
and rendered a laughing-song so satisfactorily that the
Sultan- who did not understand a word of it- joined in
so heartily that he laughed himself into tears I
At the end of the performance he presented his enter-
tainer with a marvellous Arab horse of incredibly ancient
pedigree from his own stables, a silver dagger and a bag
containing five hundred dollars.
Mr. Beaufort, who is still an active figure in London,
gave no fewer than ten performances before the late King
Edward VIT, and has at one time or another appeared
before nearly every member of the Royal Family, besides
touring in Australia, South America and South Mrica.
Yet he still declares that the hardest audience to satisfy is
one composed of British schoolboys. He says they have eyes
like gimlets ; and what they fail to see, they explain away
\vith perfect sangfroid, though usually their explanations
are miles from the truth. This, ho\vever, does not disturb
them I
WHITE MAGIC
Mter his return from Morocco, Mr. Beaufort and my
grandfather got together and devised a magic playlet, incor-
porating some of the events of the Mrican visit, which was
staged at the Egyptian Hall, where it was an enormous
success, and ran for over two hundred performances.
To my mind, the most amazing thing about this journey
to Morocco-which, by the way, had most sati.sfactory
political repercussions later, and made the Sultan the friend
of Britain for the rest of his life-was the nerve that must
have been required to produce illusions under such con-
ditions. In those days, it was a very wild country where the
Sultan's whims were law and his word carried the power of
life and death.
Itis not at all unlikely that the slightest hitch or hesitation
in any ofthe tricks performed in the Sultan's presence might
have resulted in frightening the dusky ruler, and causing
the magician to be imprisonerd, or even perhaps put to
death in an access of royal terror.
A comparatively unknown magician who started his
astounding career at the Egyptian Hall under J. N.'s banner
was an Irishman who worked at the time under the name
of John Malone.
This man conceived the enterprising idea of abandoning
the English stage, where he might well have made a great
.name, and touring as a free-lance performer through the
East, the legitimate home of magic.
He travelled through India with amazing success, and
there took the name of Prester John, because of its associa-
tions with the famous legendary Eastern King, who was
also supposed to have been a white man. Malone said he was
a reincarnation of this ruler; and that claim, together with
his genius for magic, gained him a colossal reputation.
Later he toured through Arabia, Asia Minor and
Turkey.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 79
In the latter country he came by a strange adventure
that came n~r to ending his life, but concluded by re-
doubling his fame.
He incurred the enmity of a holy Marabout, who was
himself a famous magician, and this man caused "Prester
John" to be haled before the Sultan of Turkey, where that
august potentate ordered a "trial by miracles" between the
two.
The Marabout's first trick was to hypnotize a snake (as
Moses did before Pharaoh) till it gre·w straight and rigid,
and cast it on the ground, when the shock "brought it to
life" and it wriggled away. The Irishman, being no hypno-
tist, could not equal his rival's magic in that particular.
Nor could he compete with him in the next illusion he
presented before the Sultan and a superstitiously muttering
Court-that of growing a dwarf date-palm from a date
stone in a matter of minutes, and plucking fruit from the
palmwhich had grown there before the beholders' very eyes.
"And now we will see your magic, white man I" said
the Sultan in a menacing tone.
"Prester John" craved permission to have brought to
him one of his trunks, which he said contained a potent
preparation that would prevent him from being harmed
in the great feat that was to follow. He also asked that a
Turkish youth, whom he had cured from fever long before
and who had since served him as a valet, should be brought
before the Sultan.
The box was set down some yards from the throne, and
the courtiers drew back, fearing too close an experience of
the coming magic. The Turkish boy th~n lay down on his
face on the box, and "Prester John" solemnly covered his
assistant's h~d with a cloth. He felt under the cloth for a
minute or two, muttering incantations, and then withdrew
the cloth.
So W H I 1' E M A G I C
The boy's headless body lay on the box, with a blood-
stained knife beside it; in the Irishman's hand, held by the
long hair, its eyes staring horribly and its neck still dripping
blood, was the young Turk's head I
An exclamation of horror ran round the place, and the
Marabout began a wild accusation that his rival had com-
mitted murder in the Sultan's sacred presence. But the
Irishman fiercely commanded him to be silent lest he be
blasted into dust.
Then, after walking to and fro holding up the dripping
head, "Prester John" strode back to the corpse, covered
the neck and shoulders with a cloth, thrust the decapitated
head beneath it, worked for a minute or two-and with-
drew the cloth, whereupon the lad, his head now in its
rightful place, stood up, spoke, walked about, and showed
that he was whole and undamaged.
The priest who had dared to accuse such adread magician
was cast by the Sultan into a dungeon beneath the Bosphor-
us, there to await his ruler's pleasure. "Prester John",
however, was offered an important position near to the
Sultan's person, and a great gift ofgold, jewels and women,
all of which he is said to have accepted without demur.
Mter that, this amazing Irish magician vanished in a
whirling mist of legend.
His illusion of the decapitated youth was performed
by the aid ofan invisible trap-door in the box on which the
lad lay.
He thrust his head down through this trap-door after
"Prester John" had withdrawn from inside the box a dummy
duplicate head previously prepared against just such an
emergency. On the back of the boy's neck, the magician
applied a litde wet dough paste, and a smear of red ink, to
give the impression of a severed neck. The dummy head
was similarly ornamented. Finally, the dummy was returned
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 81
to its place in the box, the boy withdrew his head, "Prester
John" cleaned the paste and ink from his neck, and with-
drew the cloth after closing the trap-door.
The superstitious dread of the Sultan's Court kept them /
from coming near the great white magician ; and, except
at very close quarters, the trick is undetectable.
In 1 893, that distinguished magician Mr. David Devant
joined Maskelyne's company, and inaugurated a new phase
in the history of the family. Starting with a three months'
contract at a small salary, he subsequently became so much
a part of the firm that he was given a partnership, and
Maskelyne and Cooke's became Maskelyne and Devant's,
under which latter title it flourished for many years and
owed to the new-comer much of the fame it achieved in
subsequent times.
Towards the end of last century, the workshops where
my grandfather and his associates prepared the apparatus
for their ever-increasing list of illusions became so exten-
sive as almost to dwarf that part of the Egyptian Hall
devoted to public performances of magic. Some amazing
and intricate apparatus was produced and patented. Nor was
this solely devoted to the art of conjuring.
J. N. became interested in a device which held promise
of being able to fill balloons with gas much more quickly
than had been done up to that date. Together with Pro-
fessor Bacon, he worked for over two years perfecting this
apparatus, and obtained such recognition for his work that
the War Office approached him to undertake some experi-
ments in connection with the filling of military observation
balloons.
These experiments were successful, and much useful
work was done, the results being utilized by the British
Army during the South Mrican War. J. N. also experi-
mented with apparatus for ascertaining the speed of sound
WHITE MAGIC
in connection with the firing of big guns, but was not so
successful in these researches as he was with his balloons.
By this time, his son Nevil was helping him, both in the
workshops and on the stage. My grandfather had two
sons, Nevil (my father) and Archie. Nevil took to the
illusion business as ifborn to it, and even followed tradition
by marrying a lady connected with the profession. Mr.
Devant. did likewise, marrying a lady who worked with
him in some of the prettiest illusions ever invented ; and in
due course I myself followed the same road by marrying
my "vanishing lady", as I shall recount later. Surely there
must be strong magic somewhere to account for such a
succession of coincidences.
It was Mr. Devant who was responsible for obtaining
for the Egyptian Hall some of the first movie-picture shows
ever seen in England. Little did anyone guess then that the
novelty to which a few minutes of the Maskelyne pro-
gramme was devoted each evening was subsequently to
oust conjuring to a very great degree from public interest,
and to contribute largely towards the condition of things
which eventually caused Maskelynes' Theatre to be taken
by the B.B.C.
In I 896, Lumiere brought an "animated picture" show
to the Polytechnic Theatre, and after some negotiation with
my grandfather offered him a machine to show these
pictures at the Egyptian Hall at a hire price of£xoo a week
--a very large sum in those days. The demand was, in
fact, too high.
But an English inventor of the name of Paul had simul-
taneously produced a similar machine, and Mr. Devant,
finding Mr. Paul eventually in the midst ofnegotiations with
a rival manager, bought the invention for £xoo, which he
paid out of his own pocket, in order to secure the marvel
for Maskelynes' show. Two days after Lumiere started
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 83
showing his "movies" at the Empire Theatre, where the
general public saw them for the first time (the previous
show having been for theatrical managers only), Maskelynes
were filling the Egyptian Hall for shows with Mr. Paul's
invention.
Meanwhile, the workshops behind the stage were busier
than ever, for J. N. and his son Nevil were now taken up
with the problem of devising an apparatus that would run
movie films continuously and smoothly. The two of them
spent months trying to overcome the difficulties that faced
them in this task, but never succeeded to their own satis-
faction.
Films were taken of public events, such as Queen
Victoria's Jubilee, and so I think Maskelynes can claim
the credit of producing the first news-reels on record. They
also filmed the first pictures ever made of theatrical per-
formances, though. they did not unfortunately hit on the
golden idea of filming contplete plays and offering them to
the public as movies or talkies.
Still, several films were made of J. N., Nevil Maskelyne
and Mr. Devant, together with my aunt Cassie Maskelyne,
and others, performing little magic playlets or producing
illusions. These pictures were "shot" on the roof of the
Egyptian Hall in the closing years of last century, and were
extensively sold all over England and America, where
perhaps they stirred a germinating ambition in the mind of
some Laemmle or Korda whose fame was yet unborn.
Queen Alexandra sent a special request for some of the
pictures taken of herself and other members of the Royal
Family at a Chelsea Hospital fete, and many other dis-
tinguished people in England began to take an interest in
the new art.
At this time, J. N. issued a challenge throughout England
that created a great sensation. Briefly, he offered £Iooo to
F
WHITE MAGIC
the fust person who could do the two following things :
(1) prove that he had discovered the secret of the famous
Maskelyne Box Trick, and (2) produce a box and duplicate
with it the tricks J. N. himself would do with his box at a
public performance.
In 1898 this challenge was accepted. No agreement was
reached as to whether the challenger correctly imitated my
grandfather's trick, and eventually the case came into Court.
The jury disagreed, after examining J. N.'s original mystery
box and its rival in the presence of the Judge, and the case
came before a fresh jury. There seems no doubt that the
claimant never explained the secrets of the original box,
whatever he may have done in the way of reproducing the
trick himself, and so failed to comply with the first condition
of the challenge ; but the case, after dragging right up to
the House of Lords, was finally awarded against my grand-
father, who had to pay the £xooo he had offered.
With a pugnacity typical ofhim, he immediately revived
the Davenport box trick on the stage at the Egyptian Hall,
and engaged some topical notabilia to perform in it. In this
way he made far more money than he lost over the case.
It was one of J. N.'s gifts that he always knew when the
public were interested in anyone, and always seemed able
to persuade that person to perform under Maskelyne
and Devant's management. Severalyears earlier, when one of
the periodical revivals ofinterest in the notorious Tichborne
Claimant Case was capturing the universal fancy, J. N.
engaged Orton, the claimant, to do a disappearing trick
at the Egyptian Hall, where he was greeted with enormous
interest and attracted very large crowds.
It will be remembered that Roger Charles Tichborne,
son of a Hampshire millionaire, was lost at sea, and an
Australian butcher named Orton claimed that he was the
missing heir. A valet of Tichbome's, brother officers of his
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 85
former regiment, the family solicitor from Winchester, old
tenants on the estates, and even the dead man's mother all
believed that the claimant was the true Roger Charles.
But English law decided otherwise after one of the most
sensational trials ever held, and troops had to be held in
readiness in London when Parliament rejected a motion to
refer the case to a Royal Commission. Orton, the claimant,
was sent to prison. On his release, he appeared--and dis-
appeared--at the Egyptian Hall, a tribute to my grand-
father's flair for showing just what the public wanted. Orton
was a great attraction there, particularly to countrymen
from Hampshire, who had had a burning personal interest
in the case. It is said that there are old villagers even today
on the Tichborne estates who have never been convinced
that Arthur Orton was an impostor, and still believe that
his degradation and imprisonment were the result of a
persecution by Jesuit Societies who hoped to gain if the
lost heir never came into his fortunes.
After the advent of Mr. Devant, the Maskelyne show
went on from strength to strength. In an endeavour to
keep fresh novelties before the public, my grandfather
began at the time to dabble with Black Magic performances,
and study ancient books and musty pamphlets concerning
the Black Arts.
On the stage he presented a "Black Magic Well" with
which some amazing tricks were performed, and also some
shows in which Mephistopheles and members of his fallen
fraternity appeared.
Whether the intensive study he made of the Black Arts
at this time affected J. N.'s nerves, I cannot say, but he had
an experience in the early years ofthe present century which
decided him never to dabble with this ancient magic again,
and of which he was very reluctant to speak afterwards.
One morning, working at some apparatus he was
86 WHITE MAGIC
erecting under the stage at the Egyptian Hall, Grandfather
noticed a strong smell of burning. Looking up quickly, he
saw a small man in black silk clothes standing not far from
him, looking on.
This man looked like the actor whom J. N. had engaged
for a magical playlet in which the Devil appeared, and who
had actually performed the previous two nights on the
Egyptian Hall stage. But he certainly had no business there
at that time in the morning, nor was it to be expected that
he would be in costume and make-up.
When J. N. asked him what he was doing there, he did
not reply ; and when my grandfather took a step towards
him, he vanished more surprisingly than any magician ever
vanished from a stage.
Supposing that the man had chosen this dramatic way
of introducing to his notice a new disappearing trick, my
grandfather called to him, and eventually, receiving no
reply, went behind the stage into his private office, where
he expected to find the actor ready with some sort of ex-
planation.
The door of this office, which had been open, was now
shut, and ]. N. heard movements inside. He strode in,
meeting a stench of sulphur, but the place was empty.
Also, a pile of books on the Black Arts which had been
open on the table were flung hastily about. One ofthem was
missing. It was never found.
The sequel was even more amazing. That morning, still
believing that the actor who took the Devil in the playlet
had contrived some inexplicable trick on him, J. N. went
to his address, only to find:that no one of that description
had ever stayed there. The man was never seen again, and
an understudy had to be hastily rehearsed in the part for that
evening's performance.
What was it ? Elaborate practical joke ? Insane terror
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 87
at a petty theft ? Or something blacker and more mysterious
than either ? The problem has never been solved ; but
J. N. took Black Art playlets off as soon as he could after
that, and would never dabble with witchcraft again.
In 1902., I myselfmay be said first to have taken the stage,
in the part ofleading man at my own christening. J. N. was
present, of course, but I omitted to ask him how he felt
at this great performance.
Three years later, after a long and brilliantly successful
tenancy, Maskelynes quitted the Egyptian Hall to move to
a theatre of their own-St. George's Hall, in Regent Street.
Mr. William Morton, who had been for so long manager
and guide to my grandfather and his show, left the concern
and branched out on his own, becoming very famous as a
theatrical manager, and discovering some of the finest
talent that has since adorned the British stage. Mr. Cooke
ceased to be an active participant, leaving this department
in the capable hands of Mr. Devant. My father, Nevil Mas-
kelyne, took a financial interest in the concern ; but over all
]. N. ruled supreme, as he had always done, no matter what
his nominal position.
He was the type ofman who must always rule supreme;
through him Maskelynes' Mysteries were conceived and
had their being ; and his spirit still inspires me today.
CHAPTER VII
Opening at St. George's Hall-Faced with failure-Devant becomes
a partner-A wizard curate-! make my bow-Archdeacon
Colley offers a £xooo challenge-Into the Courts-"A Side
Issue".
TAKING over a West End Theatre is a stupendous under-
taking. A very large sum of money is inevitably involved ;
and a reputation is put to the test.
It was one thing for Maskelynes' Mysteries to be success-
ful at the Egyptian Hall, on a tenancy renewed over short
periods, and quite another matter to take root in London
and open a great theatre for no other purpose than the dis-
play of magic. It had never been done before ; and there
did not lack pessimists and doubters to tell J. N. that he was
heading for the Bankruptcy Courts when, in the latter end of
1904, negotiations for St. George's Hall were completed
and rehearsals began for the gala pe~ormance that was to
celebrate the move.
J. N., fearless as ever, decided to do the thing in style.
He commissioned David Murray and my father, Nevil
Maskelyne, to write and produce a special magic play
from Lord Lytton's novel, The Coming Race, and a very
famous caste, headed by Vera Beringer, was engaged.
As for St. George's Hall, which was at the time in a
ruinous condition structurally and marred by a more than
doubtful reputation, J. N. almost completely rebuilt it.
The stage and its lighting and effects were magnificent, but
the auditorium was not reconstructed on quite the same
lavish scale.
88
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 89
The floor ofthe outer vestibule,for instance, was covered
with linoleum ; the stone stairs were left bare ; there was
no proper bar in the theatre (and in those days it was said
that theatres were built around their bars 1) ; the cheaper
seats were uncomfortable wooden forms, and even the better
ones were none too luxurious ; there were no boxes, and
the furniture and fittings were almost inclined to shabbiness.
On January 2.nd, 1905, the new theatre opened, and a
distinguished company of guests and patrons gave a tre-
... mendous welcome to the company and producers after the
first performance of The Coming Race. ]. N. prepared for
one of the triumphs of his life.
And then, so fickle is public fancy, bookings dwindled
almost to vanishing-point within a couple of weeks. The
"hoodoo" of St. George's Hall reared its ugly head and
menaced my grandfather not only with theatrical failure
and an ignominious dismissal back to the provinces, but
with the very bankruptcy that the Doubting Thomases
among his acquaintances had foretold.
For eight black weeks he kept The Coming Race playing
to almost empty houses, while he paid its losses out of his
own pocket. Two shows a day were given, and the new·
style of "matin.ee" performances, of which my grandfather
was the originator, attracted a good deal ofnotice.
Sir Henry Irving, who had been one of the warmest
admirers of the new play, came into J. N.'s office one after-
noon and asked if there was any objection to his borro\ving
the idea of matinee performances for his own theatrical
ventures. From this beginning the presentation of regular
tl}atinees in London sprang.
Towards the end of February it became obvious that
The Coming Race must be taken off. ]. N.'s creditors were
pressing him ; like all famous men, he had made many
enemies, and these were avidly prophesying his forthcoming
WHITE MAGIC
ruin ; the new theatre was less than half full, even on
Saturday evenings. ·
At this crisis of his career, J. N. remained absolutely
undismayed. He recalled Mr. Devant from a successful
provincial tour, and behind closed doors had an anxious
talk with him. My grandfather had already tried everyone
he knew in an endeavour to find backers who would finance
him so as to meet the now unceasing demands of his credi-
tors. He had failed in every direction. It was openly
rumoured in London that only a matter of days intervened
between him and the filing of his bankruptcy petition.
And then the theatrical world was astounded by the
announcement that a huge new show was to open immedi-
ately at St. George's Hall, and simultaneously a branch
theatre was to open in :Paris l Mr. Devant, after a flying
visit to the Continent to arrange for the necessary credits,
returned to London as a full-fledged partner in the con-
cern, in time to take a leading part in "A Feast of Magic",
the new production for St. George's Hall. J. N., his son
Nevil, and J. B. Hansard were also to appear.
Tremendous advertising along lines then entirely novel
in the theatrical profession titillated London's interest so
that the advance bookings for the new show already prom-
ised success even before it was opened.
It included some astounding Japanese juggling acts,
among which was an absolutely hair-raising knife-throwing
trick ; movie-pictures; a trick in which J. N. vanished while
actually being held by members of the audience ; a magical
playlet; and a sensational fire-swallowing act.
The latter looks extraordinary, for in it the performer
licks genuinely red-hot pokers, puts flaming balls of tow
into his mouth, _
and submits his tongue to tests with molten
metal which would sear the horniest hand.
The secret is simple, and is now very widely known.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 91
The tongue is coated with powdered sugar and soap before
the performance, when it becomes perfectly insensible to
heat. At the same time, I offer a most serious warning to
amateur conjurers who feel inclined to try any such trick
in their repertoire. These fire tricks need the most skilful,
personal tuition, and endless practice ; they are liable to
have serious or even fatal results if rashly attempted by
novices.
On the opening night of "A Feast of Magic", St.
George's Hall was pretty well filled. Next night queues
formed long before the show opened, and the theatre was
filled to capacity. Mter that, it was a matter of turning the
public away. Straight magic had done what the actor's art
had failed to do.
For four months this state of things continued. Then,
at the height of its success, J. N. withdrew the show, for he
knew the value of leaving off at the psychological moment
before receipts began to show any decline, and while the
performance was still the talk of the town.
Meanwhile, Mr. Devant had been perfecting one of the
most wonderful illusions ever shown on the public stage.
This was nothing less than a trick in which he walked up
to a woman, in the middle of a fully lighted stage, away
from curtains and trap-doors, attempted to embrace her-
and, hey presto I she vanished instantly from his arms, in
full view of the entire audiepce.
Mr. Devant himselfhas since explained the origin ofthis
amazing trick. He says that his wife saw him rise from bed
one night, and go through all the actions of the illusion,
his eyes being wide open at the time, and then return to
bed again without ever having waked up. He was sleep-
walking. -
Next morning, he tried out the trick, had an apparatus
made, and found that it worked perfectly in every detail.
WHITE MAGIC
The trick was presented in a most artistic form. The
lady in question fluttered on to the stage wearing the make-
up of a great moth. Mr. Devant approached her with a
candle and she vanished. The illusion was put into a playlet
with a mystical setting in the Indian Frontier hills and was
one of the biggest successes ever staged.
Meanwhile, the Parisian branch ofMaskelyne andDevant
Mysteries, as the firm was now called, was registering just
as great successes as its London counterpart. The volatile
Gaul flocked in his thousands to see the amazing tricks
that were presented for his amusement.
There was a rather amusing interlude there just at this
time. J. N. had engaged a very clever magician, an English
curate who was :filling in time while waiting for a living by
doing brilliant little magic shows, and this reverend
gentleman performed in Paris under a nom de theatre.
The Bishop of his diocese happened to be spending a
short holiday in the French capital, and was scandalized
to see, on a big Maskelyne poster, a photograph which his
incredulous eyes told him was ofone of his most promising
young acolytes.
To convince himself even against his will, the Bishop,
complete in gaiters and distinctive top-hat ornamented with
the little aerials that marked it out from others of its class
'
marched solemnly up to the box office ofthe Parisian theatre,
took a single stall, and sat in righteous indignation through-
out the performance, during which he doubtless received
shocks which afterwards made him offer up special invoca-
tions against necromancy.
Later still, our young clerical magician was invited-
or commanded-to the Bishop's hotel, where he was
solemnly condemned by bell, book and candle for having
performed unholy tricks in such an abandoned den of vice
as a Parisian variety hall.
THE S T 0 R Y 0 P MASKE LYNES 93
There was some talk of his being unfrocked, but the
young man, with perfect courtesy, asked why it was so
much worse for him to appear on the stage in what was
admittedly a perfectly unexceptionable performance and
company than for his Bishop to sit and enjoy the whole
production from the comfort ofthe stalls.
The Bishop's reply may be left to the imagination ; but
the curate was not unfrocked, and has since .risen to the
distinction of a Rural Deanery in England, where he is
universally loved and admired as well by his flock as his
colleagues.
In London, Maskelyne and Devant's was now out of all
danger of financial trouble, and was scoring success after
success. Many famous magicians applied for the honour of
appearing at the new theatre in Langham Place, and some
. of the applicants, both famous and otherwise, had to be
turned away because the company was already so numerous.
Julian Wylie was one of the amateur magicians who
applied for a job there. I wonder if he would have made as
great an illusionist, had Fate gone his way then, as he has
since become a producer. On the whole, I am glad he chose
his present path ; I cannot think that any magic, however
marvellous, could have recompensed the world for the loss
of the present and past glories of "Julian Wylie Produc-
tions".
It was about this time that I made my very first bow on
the Maskelyne stage. It was not, indeed, so much a bo'v as
what Shakespeare called a "sound off".
I was about three years old at the time, and I had
wandered into the wings while a performance was in pro-
gress on the St. George's Hall stage. My grandfather was
on the stage, in a sketch called The Hermit of Killam~, and
my father was just about to make his entrance to assist in
the piece.
94 WHITE MAGIC
The scene on the stage was that of a rocky cell in the
Irish mountains, and some most effective natural pheno-
mena were being reproduced to give the right atmosphere.
It was at this dramatic moment that the old hermit in
his meditations, and most of the people in the theatre also,
heard my clear, childish treble inquiring : "Daddy, is that
Dod's thunder or Grandpa's thunder?"
The hermit's mouth twitched, the "effects" redoubled
to hide a perceptible titter from the audience, and I was
withdrawn into a painful obscurity.
As a matter of fact, J. N. was notable for his realistic
stage reproductions of thunder, rain and wind. At a time
when these things were g~nerally very artificially produced
on the legitimate stage, and when clouds, suns and moons
were usually painted on wrinkled and dusty backcloths, he
and my father were already experimenting with an apparatus
which was more or less the forerunner of the "artificial
horizon" now used in London's biggest theatres.
In its improved form, this is an exp~se of plain white
canvas tightly stretched over semi-circular rails behind
the stage, like the inside of a cylinder. It acts as a reflector
of light ; on it play moving pictures ofcloudscapes actually
photographed from the sky.
Owing to technical difficulties, J. N. could not perfect
this idea, but he managed to evolve some very natural
effects with cloud, rain and so on, and gained a good deal
of appreciation for them.
In I 906, there arose the first murmurings of a storm
that was shortly to break in fury over St. George's Hall.
Some correspondence in the Dai!J Telegraph aroused J. N.
to write a letter in which he expressed his usual strong views
about spiritualism and media.
This brought a reply from a gentleman called Arch-
deacon Colley, Rector of Stockton, Warwickshire. He
1' HE S 1' 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 95
publicly challenged J. N. to bring any machinery he wished
to Stockton Rectory, and there reproduce certain spiritual-
istic phenomena. The Archdeacon said that he had de-
posited £xooo with his bankers, to be paid to J. N. if the
latter succeeded in doirig what was asked of him.
The chief phenomenon mentioned was to cause a mist
to come forth from the side of a man, which mist as it
emerged turned into a human figure, able to speak and
move about separately from its originator.
For the Archdeacon claimed that a famous spiritualist
medium had, in his presence, conjured up such a spirit from
his side, and that the spirit talked, wrote letters, walked
and ate a baked apple. Who baked the apple, or why the
reincarnated dead should prefer this form of diet to a nice
dish of banana fritters it seems impossible now to say with
any certainty.
It appears that though the spirit ate the apple, the skin
and core remained in the mouth of the medium, who after-
wards mundanely spat them out, whereupon the Arch-
deacon reverently preserved them as proof to all doubters
that the spirit had been real-or at least as real as such
extraordinary visitants can be.
To the original challenge from the rural depths of
Stockton Rectory, J. N. replied with a certain good-natured
levity, pointing out that he himself did not believe in spirits
of that sort, and that he wished to be left in his comfortable
agnosticism, just as, no doubt, the Archdeacon would like
to remain a believer.
I happen to know that my grandfather thought at the
time that Archdeacon Colley had been deceived by a cer-
tain famous fraudulent medium of the period.
The reverend gentleman would not be appeased, how-
ever, and began writing to various newspapers saying that
the famous Maskdyne was hedging in face of a public
WHI'I'E MAGIC
challenge, and that his frequent statements that he could
produce any phenomena claimed by spiritualists were merely
the wild claims of a self-advertising windbag.
With the intolerance of youth, my father was anxious
to take the invitation upon himself, and after some dis-
cussion J. N. permitted him and Mr. Devant to reply to the
Archdeacon offering to accept the challenge. But the
Rector of Stockton was avid for the blood of the Arch-
Disbeliever himself.
In the end, the cleric's repeated challenges became such
a nuisance that J. N. was forced in his own defence to issue
a pamphlet telling what he considered to be the true facts
of the whole story. In this pamphlet, he claimed that Mr.
Colley was not, in reality, an Archdeacon at all, having had
the degree refused him by the then Archbishop of Canter-
bury, and that, though he commonly wore the hood of an
Oxford M.A., he was not entitled to do so.
To this pamphlet, the Rector of Stockton took such
strongexception thathe sued J.N.for libel. My grandfather's
instant reply was a plea of justification and fair comment ;
and at the same time he reproduced at St. George's Hall the
illusion of a spirit form emerging from the side of a man,
and then claimed in Court payment of the £xooo offered by
the Archdeacon for the performance of this trick.
As a matter of fact, the chief reason why J. N. had been
so reluctant hitherto to accept the Archdeacon's challenge
was because the latter gentleman could by no means be
induced to formulate it in what his opponent thought were
reasonable terms-to wit, that he should engage whoever
he thought to be the finest medium of the day, that this
medium should raise the spirits in a public place before an
impartial audience, and that J. N. should then endeavour
to reproduce the tricks exact in every detail.
The Archdeacon, while obviously wroth, preferred to
1' H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 97
adhere to the very much vaguer terms of his original
challenge.
The case was tried before Mr. Justice Ridley and a
Special Jury in the King's Bench Division, and created a
tremendous sensation. Before they could decide the question
as to whether J. N. had earned his £xooo, the jury had to
go to St. George's Hall to see a performance of the trick
in question, which had been aptly named "The Side
Issue".
In it, J. N. and his assistant, both clad in long black
frock-coats and semi-clerical "dog-collars," stood in the
centre of the stage, well away from curtains, trap-doors and
so on, and with only a couple of ordinary cane chairs as
"properties". The assistant "hypnotized" J. N., made
magical passes over him, muttered mystic spells, and J. N.
rose to his full height, his eyes shut and a rapt expression
on his face.
At this moment, usually to the accompaniment of ex-
clamations of horror and astonishment from the audience,
a white mist began to issue from his left side..This mist
thickened till it formed a hand, growing from his side. The
hand was followed by an arm ; gradually, there materialized
a golden-haired spirit form.
She floated forth from his side horizontally, while J. N.
himself stood with shut eyes and white face, apparently in
a trance. The spirit then turned her feet to the ground,
spoke to the audience in a clear and intelligent way, ate a
baked apple if particularly desired to do so, and then, at a
sudden pass from the "medium", vanished from before the
audience's very eyes, while J. N. uttered a cry, opened his
eyes and appeared to emerge from a dream.
The thing was an extraordinarily dramatic and realistic
illusion, and the Press and onlookers universally agreed that
it fulfilled every detail of Archdeacon Colley's challenge.
WHITE MAGIC
What the jury thought could not, of course, be immediately
disclosed, but they looked very impressed.
I remember, as a very small boy, watching this illusion
from the wings of the theatre, and greeting my aunt (the
golden-haired spirit form) as she vanished from human ken
and materialized again by my side. I also remember her
pointing out the jury to me, as they sat solemnly looking
on from the front row of the stalls.
The case returned to the Courts. Mr. Colley agreed that
he had known the medium, and admitted that once he had
raised "Samuel" from the vasty deeps, and that the Prophet
had wrecked the room and behaved "like Hell let loose".
This has always seemed to me to be rather a slur on Samuel,
but we will let it pass.
As to the alleged libel, Mr. Justice Ridley said in sum-
ming up that "the words that the plaintiff was not an arch-
deacon and never had been an archdeacon were statements
of fact", and that "the rest of the pamphlet was not
libellous".
As to the counter-claim by J. N. for the £Iooo offered
by Mr. Colley for the reproduction of the spirit-raising
manifestation, it appeared that, though the ghost appeared
perfectly satisfactorily, the claim failed on a technical point
because the apparition had not returned into J. N.'s side the
way it had come, but had suddenly vanished while still
some distance from him.
My grandfather was then adjudged by the jury to have
libelled Mr. Colley, and to have failed to eam the £ Iooo
offered I Damages of £75 were given against him in respect
of the libel~ and he had to pay the very high costs of the
long-drawn-out case.
Of course, the matter of returning my aunt apparently
into his side was just as simple as her emergence had been.
In fact, had Mr. Colley stated exactly what he wished done
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 99
when he offered his challenge there seems very little room
to doubt that he would have lost his £Iooo.
]. N. was a marvellous man. Far from being downcast
at losing the case, he billed "The Side Issue" all over
London.
People from the length and breadth of England, whose
interest had been excited by reading the long reports that
had appeared of the case, came crowding to St. George's
Hall, and "The Side Issue" proved to be the biggest draw
Maskelynes had ever known. It ran before packed and
deliriously delighted audiences for nearly a year.
G
CHAPTER VIII
The Magic Circle-A dead hand plays dominoes-Spies in St. George's
Hall-Turning over "A New Page"-The Indian Rope Trick-
A magician in the Thames-My first Command Performance-
Ancient temple magic.
IT was about this time-to be exact, I believe at the end of
1905-that the Maigc Circle was formed, under the Presi-
dency of my grandfather.
This association, which has since gathered into its
membership all the most famous magicians of the Eastern
and Western world, was formed largely to prevent the
secrets of magic from being publicly exposed, and also as
far as possible to protect the presentation of new magical
effects in favour of the inventor.
It will easily be seen how difficult this latter concern
might be. You can patent apparatus to produce an illusion,
but you cannot patent the illusi<_?n. Once a skilful magician
has seen an illusion worked on the stage, he can usually,
in the case of a trick of average intricacy, deduce how it is
don.e. There are notable exceptions, ofcourse.
For instance, J. N.'s Box Trick defied imitation so suc-
cessfully that for many years he offered £Iooo to anyone
who could reproduce it. In t:lle invention of automata, too,
he was unequalled, and Zoe, Psycho, Labial and the rest
have never been successfully copied to this day. Nor have
some of the Maskelyne vanishing tricks.
But J. N. was admittedly the greatest magician of his
time, if not the greatest ever known in the world's history.
Others might suffer from imitation where he went free.
IOO
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 101
The Magic Circle, therefore, had a definite work to do, and
still performs that work today.
It holds an annual meeting, at which new members are
admitted, new tricks shown, and the progress of world
magic during the past twelve months discussed. Inciden-
tally, admission is jealously guarded, and only superlative
magicians of unexceptionable character can be accepted ;
it is probably more difficult to enter the Magic Circle than
to obtain a commissjon in a crack regiment.
This is a necessary precaution. Two or three times during
my grandfather's life we discovered spies at St. George's
Hall intent on trying to steal the secrets of our finest illu-
sions.
On only one occasion did they"
succeed. Usually a polite
note was passed to them, as they sat in the stalls, asking
them to leave the theatre-a request that was never ignored.
But once, shortly after the Magic Circle had been
founded, one of our magicians at St. George's Hall was on
the stage with an assistant. He muttered a mystic incantation,
made some magical passes, and the assistant should have
vanished from before the very eyes of the audience.
At the critical moment, however, someone in the stalls
uttered a sudden sharp scream, and at the same time a
scene-shifter in the wings, who had been engaged tem-
porarily that day in place ofanother man who was ill, shone
a bright electric torch into the eyes of the magician.
The result was that the wizard vanished, and the assistant
stayed where she was. What was more to the point, the
"works" of the trick were discovered. The following
evening, the identical trick was being performed in another
London theatre.
If this sort of thing were to happen often, the finest
illusionists would be put out ofwork while their tricks were
presented with much financial success by thieving rivals.
102. WHITE MAGIC
Therefore the Magic Circle makes very sure, before it
closes its doors for one of its annual conferences, that no
spy has concealed himself within the precincts, and that
every member present is a man ofhonour and discretion.
Perhaps the most astonishing new trick ever exhibited
to the members of the Magic Circle was devised by that
master magician, Mr. Devant, and displayed at the annual
meeting in I 9~·
He passed round among the company a glass case in
which reposed a withered yellow hand. This hand had
belonged to a Japanese philosopher ofthe sixteenth century,
and had been preserved1 because of certain magical proper-
ties which the owner was said to have passed into it on his
death.
At the Magic Circle meeting four hundred years later
the hand was removed from the case and placed on a small
trolley, hand and trolley being then returned to the inside
of the closed case, in which a number of dominoes had first
been scattered.
Three independent members of the audience then hid
behind a screen, and a weird game of dominoes com-
menced. The three magicians played their best, but the
hand, running to and fro on its trolley without any human
agency and picking up in its withered fingers its own selec-
tion of dominoes, won each game. Mr. Devant said that it
had never been known to lose.
By this time, my father, Nevil Maskelyne, was President
of the Circle. He was present on this occasion, other dis-
tinguished guests being Herr Stackemann, Mr. Carl Hertz,
Mr. Jack Merlin, Dr. Wilmar, Mr. Herbert Collings, and,
ofcourse, Mr. Devant himself. Doubdess some ofthem will
remember the occasion still.
Mr. Devant was by this time making a world-wide
reputation as a master illusionist. He had recendy invented a
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 103
trick which he entitled "The New Page", and which created
a great sensation when it was presented at St. George's
Hall. I think it one of the cleverest things of its kind ever
staged.
A box was carried in pieces on to the stage, and there
put together after each piece had been held up for examina-
tion by the audience. When erected, it was found to be a
small coffin, exactly big enough to fit one of the diminutive
page-boys of the theatre. The coffin was stood on end ;
the page squeezed into it, and was there securely strapped
to an iron bar running the full length of the inside of the
coffin. The lid was then screwed on, when the coffin rose
slowly of its own accord, and remained suspended in mid-
air about six feet from the stage.
Mr. Devant then took a doll in his hand, and explained
to the audience that whatever he did with the doll, the
page-boy must also do, because he was under a sympathetic
spell with the little figure.
With a sudden dramatic motion, the doll was then
turned upside down. The coffin-lid was swiftly unscrewed-
and the page-boy was also found to be upside do\vn, though
still strapped to the iron bar as firmly as ever. It was quite
obviously impossible for the boy, or the bar, to move in-
side the closed coffin. How was it done ? I dare say the
answer would surprise you I
The one trick that Maskelynes admitted that they
could not perform was the Indian Rope Trick. In fact, my
grandfather issued a challenge, which was broadcast not
only all over Europe and America, but throughout the
length and breadth of India, that he would pay £to,ooo
down, or £tooo down and a salary of £250 a week, to any
fakir who could do this trick to his satisfaction, and show
him how to do it himself.
So many incorrect versions of the Indian Rope Trick
I 04 W H I T E M A G I C
have been printed that I should perhaps outline this illusion
in the original form of the legend.
The fakir must perform the trick in an open field, away
from trees or any other obstacles. He must produce a rope,
let it be examined by an independent audience who must
pass it as genuine, and then he must throw the rope about
fifteen feet in the air, where it should remain vertical and
rigid, though without any visible means of support.
A boy must then climb the rope to its top, and vanish.
The fakir follows with a knife in his teeth, and slashes about
in the air at the top, whereupon limbs, a head, and pieces
of flesh cut from the boy's body fall to the ground.
Finally, the fakir descends the rope, pulls it down and
coils it up, throws the limbs and pieces of body into a bag,
places the bag in a box which has previously been examined
by the audience-and within a minute the box opens and
the boy jumps out, alive and whole.
This trick has never been performed.
I am well aware that hundreds of travellers claim to
have seen it. I am also aware that India was searched from
end to end, during the occasion of the late King George's
visit there in 1902, when he was Prince of Wales, and that
no one could find a fakir who could perform the trick before
him.
I believe the same thing happened during the Duke
of Windsor's visit to India.
This trick must not be confounded with a similar one
in which the performer places a long bamboo pole on the
ground and a boy climbs to the top of it, though the pole
has no apparent means of support.
I myself can get farther than that. I can make a rope
stand up rigid, but I cannot-at least not in an open field-
make a boy disappear from the top of it while all eyes watch
him.
T HE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 105
I can apparently cut a boy to bits, throw down his
mutilated remains, throw them in a bag, and reincarnate
him whole within a minute, but for this I need a stage.
I cannot do it all in an open field, as the fakirs claim to be
able to do.
But I haveno objection to repeating, on my own account,
the challenge originally issued by my grandfather, and
repeated later by my father. That challenge has never been
answered. It never will be.
The illusionist's business is so far like life that "the
best-laid plans . . . oft gang agley". I remember an occa-
sion at Maskelynes' Theatre when a disappearing trick
went very wrong indeed.
A magician we had engaged there to fill a gap caused by ,
illness had apparently looked upon the bottle 'vhen it was
red-and left it plain glass-coloured! Anyway, he walked
on to the stage with a donkey which he meant to vanish,
trod on the trap-door and vanished himself, leaving the
donkey looking rather pleased.
My father walked on, improvised a few words of banter
on the difficulty of"vanishing" both a donkey and its driver
-and the donkey followed its master. No one realized that
anything had gone wrong with the trick.
Once an illusion nearly ended fatally. It was on the
occasion ofa big outdoor display of magic at a Teddington
garden party, attended by my father and some of his clever-
est magicians. Many famous people were present to \Vatch
the illusions.
The most spectacular trick of the day was one in which
a clever English illusionist was to be shut inside an iron cis-
tern, riveted in there by professional riveters not connected
with Maskelynes, and then the cistern with the man inside
was to be flung bodily into the Thames.
' The thing hit the water with a terrific plop, and sank
106 W H I T E M A G I C
instantly, amid gasps from the fashionably dressed audience.
The waves created by the disturbance subsided into agitated
ripples-but still no magician appeared.
No one in the audience except my father and myself
realized that the illusionist was long overdue at the surface.
Had something gone wrong ? Ifso, then the show looked
like ending in a fatality, for there would be a poor chance
of escape for a magician on the Thames bottom ifanything
faulty occurred in "the works".
And then, to our extraordinary relief, the performer's
head broke the surface of the water, and he swam slowly
and painfully to shore, amid tremendous applause. As soon
as possible, he was taken aside, and the explanation of his
long imprisonment under the Thames was explained.
Something had gone wrong. Only the consummate
nerve and skill of the young magician had saved his life
and our reputation, and prevented that sunny afternoon's
amusement from being turned into a ghastly tragedy.
It was in July, 1912, that I gave my first Royal Com-
mand Performance. I was then nine years old; as you
rightly surmise, therefore, I was not actually named on the
list of artistes submitted to Buckingham Palace for His
Majesty's approval. But I appeared all the same when the
great day came.
The show was to be given at the Palace Theatre, and
was the first variety performance by Royal Command before
King George V. What a state of excitement I was in when I
learned that I was to play my small part on the chosen even-
ing!
The whole theatre was in a turmoil. Over a million
bunches of roses were used to decorate it in honour of the
Royal visit. In fact, so powerful was the scent from these
roses that several people fainted while the Command Per-
formance was actually in progress, and it was learned from
T HE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 107
that night that artificial roses were advisable in the future.
I believe that artificial flowers have usually been used, except
in the Royal Box, at gala performances since that date.
The theatre, however, looked indescribably beautiful,
and I ran several times to the little peep-hole in the curtain
to \vatch the auditorium filling up with a fashionable
throng. Finally, when every seat was taken and people were
standing in large numbers at the back, the National Anthem
was played, and the curtain rose on the first turn ofthe show.
Never since has such a collection of variety talent been
brought together under one roof. Barclay Gammon, of
St. George's Hall fame, was there ; Chirgwin, the White-
eyed Kaffir ; Fanny Fields, in her Dutch clogs ; Cinque-
valli, the human billiard-table ; Harry Tate ; Vesta Tilley ;
Little Tich; Clarice Mayne; George Robey, complete with
eyebrows and umbrella ; Cissie Loftus ; Harry Lauder,
grasping a curly stick ; Anna Pavlova, then glad of the
chance of such an appearance on the variety stage ; and
Mr. David Devant.
My excitement rose to a climax as the time for Mr.
Devant's turn approached. For the time being, I was his
assistant, together with his little daughter, Vida.
The preceding turn ended, amid vociferous clapping ;
the audience waited expectantly, probably hoping that the
magician would make an appropriate entrance by material-
izing suddenly in the centre of the stage; Mr. Devant
walked on, and Vida and I held hands in the wings, awaiting
our cue.
Finally, after another minute or two of intolerable
suspense, our time came. We walked on together; and
speaking for myself, I instantly forgot all about the trick I
had to help to perform.
I simply stared up at the Royal Box, where I could see
several ladies and gentlemen sitting. I stared again \vith all
108 WHITE MAGIC
the frank unembarrassment ofchildhood, and then I knitted
my brows in a frown.
"Where are the King and Queen?" I whispered to
Mr. Devant, who was preparing his trick.
"In the Royal Box," he answered, from the corner of
his mouth, and added a warning, "Ssh l"
But nothing could make me Ssh now.
"Well, where are their crowns?" I asked in woeful
disappointment.
I had been so certain they would be wearing crowns
and robes-it seemed to me that Kings and Queens were
not real without these appurtenances, and probably never
parted from them for a moment, night or day I In my
sorrow, I must have raised my voice more than I realized.
At any rate, I saw the Queen smile suddenly at me.
I must have been very red as I prepared to help Mr.
Devant with the trick, which was an egg illusion that
needed deft handling. Also, I was so self-conscious at the
effect of my unintentional raising of the voice that I nearly
swallowed an egg.
All the same, the King and Queen gave Vida and
myself a special clap as we left the stage, and then I felt
more thrilled than ever I had done in my life before. Even
the absence of the crowns didn't seem to matter then.
So pleased were Their Majesties with Mr. Devant's
magic that they specially asked for his name to be included
the following year in a variety display to be given in their
presence at Knowsley Hall, on the occasion ofLord Derby's
heir's coming-of-age party.
At about the same time, St. George's Hall gained
further laurels when Mr. Devant was asked to give a magic
performance at the opening of the theatre in the new and
wonderful Atlantic liner Aquitania. I believe she was the
very first ship to be fitted with a full-sized theatre, and the
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 109
opening night was an occasion of almost national import-
ance. Mr. Devant scored his usual great success, and
invented a n:ew vanishing illusion specially for the oc-
casion.
This illusion was particularly interesting because it was
originally based on a trick performed in Ancient Egypt in
3766 B.c. Mr. Devant found a record pf this trick on the
translation ofa papyrus in the British Museum, and puzzled
out the method the ancient necromancers had used to per-
form it. It proved a very effective illusion indeed, and was
subsequently featured at St. George's Hall.
As a matter of fact, the art of magic was perfected to a
marvellous degree in Ancient Egypt. There seems little
room to doubt that those wizards of Pharaoh who tried
unsuccessfully to oppose Moses and Aaron were masters of
magic in their own degree.
We know from contemporary records that the Ancients
performed all sorts of illusions in their temples for the
mystification of the simple worshippers. For instance, there
was a famous temple at Thebes where a trumpet sounded
when the door of a shrine was timidly pushed open by a
worshipper entering to bring offerings. The walls were too
narrow to accommodate any human being, yet the invisible
horns of elfland sounded, doubtless to the great financial
benefit of the local priesthood.
This trick was worked as follows. When the doors
were pushed open, a system of pulleys, cords and rods
pushed into a vessel of water a ball to the upper part of
which a trumpet was fixed. The whole was enclosed in a
sealed cylinder. When the ball entered the water, the air
above was compressed and forced through the trumpet,
giving forth sounds that,would have been sufficiently eerie
on a dark night in the midst ofa mysterious temple.
Many of the tricks used by the Ancients for Trials by
IIO WHITE MAGIC
Ordeal have recently come under the scrutiny of modem
magicians, and have been found capable of very simple
solutions.
I have already explained the secret of the handling or
even touching with the tongue of red-hot irons, and the
"swallowing" of fire. On the site of a Greek temple at
Athens, excavators a few years ago discovered a, magic
pitcher which was famous in Greek legend in trials for
witchcraft.
This pitcher was perforated with innumerable holes all
round its upper half. The priests half-filled the pitcher,
passed it to the suspected necromancer, and asked him to
drink from it. Ifhe succeeded in doing so, he was innocent ;
if not, they burned him alive.
If the unfortunate man tilted the pitcher to bring the
water to his lips, it poured out of the holes in the upper
half of the vessel, and not a taste reached his mouth. Then
one of the priests would take the pitcher and with grave
and deliberate enjoyment drink its contents to the dregs
without spilling a drop. At which, of course, the concourse
roared approbation, and stacked up the faggots that were
to form the funeral pyre of the miserable wretch who had
failed in the ordeal.
The explanation is simple in the extreme. The handle
of the pitcher was hollow, and channels led from the top
of the handle inside the rim to the spout. By exerting
suction on the spout, the liquid could be drawn up the
handle and into the mouth without ever passing the holes
in the sides of the pitcher.
Another illusion which gained great kudos for its
demonstrators among the Greek temple virgins, and which
offered a convenient way ofgetting rid ofunwanted people,
was the ordeal in which a girl apparently had a sword
passed through her stomach, the end projecting from her
THE STORY OF MASKELYNBS III
back, yet suffered no wound. When the victim was stabbed
similarly with the same sword, death resulted.
This trick was very simply performed, and is still in
use on the stage to this day, so that I cannot explain its
workings without breaking the unwritten laws of magic.
But I could perform it upon any of my assistants,
employing a real sword, not one whose blade telescopes.
Most famous of all the tricks of ancient temple magic
was the Delphic o1:2cle, which was simply worked by means
of an ordinary speaking-tube.
Another common ordeal was to make a victim walk on
red-hot irons, or on broken glass. In the case of the irons,
the priest who demonstrated the possibility of performing
the act with the god's approval and without damage
anointed his feet with sugar and fat as in the fire-eating
trick.
If broken glass were chosen for the ordeal, two trays
were prepared, each apparendy containing identical broken
glass. But in the priest's tray, each piece of the glass in the
middle was filed fairly smooth at the edges, though that
which ornamented the outer parts of the tray nearest the
congregation was genuine sharp-edged stuff. However, the
priest walked carefully in the middle only.
In addition, feet were usually prepared by preliminary
soaking in strong alum water, and rosin in powdered form
was rubbed well into them afterwards. Thus the priest
once more triumphandy demonstrated how valuable it was
to have a pure heart, while the victim, after having had his
feet cut to bits on the sharper glass of his tray, was usually
sacrificed in some peculiarly~unpleasant manner to appease
the spirits he had angered.
The only genuine trick used by the Ancients in their
temples was sword-swallowing, and this, it is significant to
note, was never permitted as an ordeal.
112. WHITE MAGIC
It is about the most interesting bit of magic in the whole
of the legendary collection, because it is actually and really
sword-swallowing. There is no telescopic blade or any
hocus-pocus like that.
The art of the thing lies simply in this, that the throat
of a human being, if constantly rubbed and pressed on the
inside, becomes so calloused that it will swallow almost
anything, without the slightest sensation ofdisgust, though
a normal throat will "invert'' merely at the touch ofa spoon
or a finger.
Once the .sword-swallower has trained his throat to be
insensible to the touch of steel, however, all he has to do
is to throw back his head, so that his throat and internal
orifices are in a straight line, put the point of the sword in
his mouth, tap the hilt-and the blade slides down into his
stomach, where the point may be felt by manual pressure on
the outside of the belly.
Medical men will confirm that there is a space all the
way down, and that nothing but nausea need prevent
anyone from performing this amazing trick.
Indeed, medicine has to acknowledge a great debt to
the sword-swallowing profession. For in I 777 a doctor of
the name of Stevens conducted the first practical studies
ever carried out concerning human gastric juices by the
aid of one of the conjuring fraternity.
He persuaded his man to swallow some small steel
capsules, filled with meat, the capsules being drilled with
holes to permit the juices to attack the meat. Mter a set
number of hours, the swallower disgorged them again, and
the doctor noted the effects of the stomach action on the
meat.
These experiments were continued on various occasions,
since the swallower possessed the rare faculty (sometimes
still found among magicians of this sort) of returning
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 113
stomach contents by a simple movement of the digestive
muscles, without inconvenience to himself.
From similar experiments it was discovered how to
introduce a small electric light into the stomach-a method
much used by modem doctors and surgeons nowadays ;
and also how to introduce tubes down the throat into the
stomach so as to carry food there direct, or to wash out the
stomach when desired.
Although all this is old knowledge now to doctors,
the general public today is just as much impressed as ever
when it sees sword-swallowing carried out cleverly ; just
as astonished, in fact, as the Ancients undoubtedly were
when sword-swallowing priests claimed to be performing
magic by the direct assistance of the gods themselves.
Certainly it would be as impossible for an uninitiated
modem to swallow a sword as it was for those poor pagans
who> failing in other rituals, were thereupon done to
death with much rejoicing by those who had formerly
marked them down for extinction because they happened to
be in somebody's way.
Although I myself am a professional magician, and
should have stood.a very good chance, I suppose, in the
old days of becoming a High Priest, I am much more
satisfied to belong to this quieter era. A conjurer's life is
not all roses nowadays; but at least one has a fair chance
to acquire the tricks of the trade without being dragged off
to the temple of a rival practitioner and submitted to a
swindling ordeal inevitably ending in one's own discom-
fiture and death and the great glorification of one's rival.
CHAPTER IX
Slow-motionphotography experiments-Photographing artillery shells
in flight-Nearly a tragedy-Maskelynes help the Admiralty
during the war-Magicians help Lawrence of Arabia-My first
ghost.
AF'I'ER an extraordinarily busy and eventful life, my grand-
father began to loose the reins of authority at St. George's
Hall. Having piloted the new venture past doubts, dangers
and difficulties into prosperous seas, he handed over the
tiller into Mr. Devant's capable hands. At the same time,
though he was just as interested as ever in inventions, both
of his own and other people's, he slackened his efforts in
this direction, and my father, Ne_
vil Maskelyne, carried on
the family tradition.
I have said that J. N. experimented with early movie
cameras, and gave movie shows at the Theatre of Mysteries
long before the earliest cinematograph companies had
formed in America. From this, the next step was towards
slow-motion photography.
For many years my father experimented with cameras
intended to produce movies that would enable the eye to
follow the movements of birds' wings in flight. He was
academically interested in the various problems of aviation,
then in its infancy at Hendon and elsewhere, and he made
various researches into the possibility of building a machine
whose wings would beat like a bird's or a bee's, attaining if
possible the same relative speed and climbing-power in
relation to weight that the latter insect possesses.
By photographing birds with slow-motion cameras he
tried to tackle the question of human flight unaided by
114
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 115
mechanical power. His first idea was the fitting of wings
on the arms and legs of the flyer, as he held a theory that
flight could be accomplished in this way if only the would-
be aeronaut practised enough. Swimming-indeed, even
walking-cannot be mastered at the first or second attempt ;
he thought flying with wings on arms and legs would
similarly yield to continued effort, directed by a thorough
knowledge ofthe movements of birds in flight.
Later, he turned to the possibility of building gliders,
and actually constructed models capable of sustained flight
if started by fast towing, in just the same way that gliders
work today. His models, I remember, were built on very
similarlines to the modern German "Kondor" glider, which
has attained a gliding height record of some 2.o,ooo feet.
It was during these experiments, with their corollary
work upon slow-motion photography of birds in flight,
that my father was asked to conduct certain research work
for the War Office at the artillery station at Shoeburyness.
An argument had developed in distinguished quarters in
the Army about the flight of shells from big guns, and this,
it was suggested, might be settled by photographing shells
in flight.
The point at issue was whether shells travelled nose-
forward all the time, or whether they rolled over and over
so that sometimes the side and sometimes the butt of the
shell was towards the enemy. It became essential, in con-
nection with the number of shells that failed to explode
properly when fired on to sandy ground, to discover
whether these shells landed nose-first, or whether they could
fall broadside on to the sand, and so lose some of their
effectiveness.
I accompanied·my father to Shoeburyness, and we took a
number of big and rather clumsy cameras, over whose
safety he watched jealously throughout the journey. At
H
116 WHITE MAGIC
the camp, we were received pleasantly by officers and men,
and I soon made friends with the good-natured artillery
privates who were detailed to serve the guns whose shells
had to be photographed.
They talked freely before me, as I was quite small at
the time, and I remember they were very mirthful about
the chance of photographing a big shell once it had been
fired. One must remember that slow-motion photography
was quite unheard of by the general public in those pre-war
days, and far less was known even about moving pictures
than we now know about television.
On the morning when the experiment was to be made,
I went out with Father to the corner of the field he had
selected as a suitable place in which to set up his camera.
Getting tired of watching him fitting the parts together,
I wandered offalong the hedge towards the big gun, round
which a group ofartillerymen were already moving.
I loitered along the hedge, looking for birds' nests,
and eventually arrived within a few yards of the gun.
Then, seeing a man I knew on the far side of it, I strolled
out directly across the line in which it was pointing.
At the same time I heard an officer counting-"EIGHT-
NINE-WAIT, MEN, WAIT I"
He had glanced up and seen me out of the corner of
his eye ; and I was told afterwards that only the sheerest
luck had saved me from being blown to bits by walking
across in front of the gun as it was fired. The officer held a
watch in his hand, and was just about to give the command
to fire the shell for which my father was waiting.
At the time, though from the shocked faces of my
friends round the gun and the unparliamentary word or
two addressed to me by the officer I understood that
something had gone wrong, I did not realize how near I
had been to departing suddenly from this life.
'THE S'I'ORY OF MASKELYNES 117
I stayed and watched the gun fired and then fired again
two or three times. Finally, a distant whistle from my
father told that he had obtained the pictures he wanted.
Then we left the smoking 6o-pounder gun, and at my
urgent request went along to the place where the shells
had landed. The officer in charge rather cynically sug-
gested that I might like to keep, as a memento, the one
that had nearly ended my young life, and the artillery men
dug it out for me.
It was sunk twenty-eight feet deep in the ground. When
it was finally retrieved, and I stood, hands in pockets,
staring down into the crater from which it had been dug, I
got a clearer idea ofwhat I had escaped when the gun went
off. I still have that 6o-pound shell in my drawing-room
today, and often tell my own children its story as they pat
its glossy black sides.
It only remains to add that the photography was per-
fectly successful, and proved beyond any doubt that shells
travel nose-forward, with a slight wobble, throughout
their course.
This was by no means the only occasion on which
Maskelynes came to the assistance of the Government. I
have already told how J. N. conducted innumerable experi-
ments with war balloons, filling them more quickly than
any rival, and how the results ofhis work proved invaluable
to the Army during the South Mrican War. I have also told
the story ofDouglas Beaufort, Maskelyne magician, and his
political trip to Morocco.
But perhaps the most interesting of all these semi-
official tasks was undertaken by my father during the
European War.
Our theatre, at the time, was filled with the khaki and
blue of soldiers and sailors home on leave, and our magic
shows and playlets were adapted to suit the spirit of the
II8 WHITE MAGIC
times. But we were soon to come into closer contact with
hostilities.
One morning my father found beside his plate at the
breakfast table an official-looking letter bearing the stamp
of the Admiralty and marked "Highly Confidential".
This letter explained how it had become necessary, for
certain reasons connected with His Majesty's Navy, to make
investigations into methods used to protect the skin against
fire, and asked Father to call at the Admiralty at a given date
and time.
In due course he kept the appointment, and was met
by some very important members of the Admiralty. These
explained to him that at the Battle of Jutland, which had
then recently taken place, numbers of British gunners had
been badly burned by the back-flash from the big naval
guns during the conflict with the German ships.
It appeared that the· guns were served by crews who,
in battle, had a fifteen-minute spell: of duty, and then about
the same period of rest while another team took on the
working of the great sixteen-inch weapons.
But it was discovered at Jutland that the gun-teams
were so badly burned, in some cases, after fifteen minutes
at a gun, that they could not carry on again after their spell
of rest. So it happened that, with the German Fleet more
or less at our mercy, we were unable to achieve the com-
plete victory which should have rewarded Earl Jellicoe's
tactics.
This is the more interesting because so many theories
have been advanced for our incomplete victory at Jutland.
Admiral after Admiral on the German side has marvelled
that their Fleet was allowed to escape, after being man-
reuvred into a hopeless position. The secret, as far as I can
make out, was simply this, that our gunners, staggering
back half-blinded and smoke-blackened from the guns, as
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 119
the weapons slid like striking snakes to and fro on their
mountings, could not force their scorching flesh to lay and
fire the guns adequately ; and so what was perhaps an
opportunity to end the war in half the time it subsequently
took was wasted.
Someone with initiative at the Admiralty, unafraid to
depart from tradition after this disaster, approached my
father and asked him for the Maskelyne secret of playing
with fire.
It was, of course, well known that our magicians fre-
quently appeared to eat fire on the stage, thrust their hands
into leaping flames, licked red-hot pokers, and put burning
tow in their mouths. It was obvious that some secret
preparation must be used to render the skin insensitive to
heat.
If this preparation could be served out to the gunners
of the Grand Fleet, then they would be able to serve their
guns till the ships belched forth the very fires of Hell, and
still remain unhurt. And so, as I say, there came a request
from the Admiralty seeking the secret of our fire-immunity.
The formula we use is one whose details have never
been divulged to the world, so I cannot publish it now.
I have already mentioned, in an earlier chapter, a simple
formula for fire-protection, but I would again emphasize
that I do not advise am~eurs to attempt these dangerous
tricks without most careful practice and preparation. .
When my father told our secret formula to the Admiralty
chemists, they tested it thoroughly and were astounded at
its efficacy. It was finally served out to the naval gunners.
When these men had pasted up their hands and faces with '
the preparation, they found they could fire the great guns
incredi~ly quickly, undamaged either by the flames from
the breech or the almost red-hot metal itself.
That was one of the ways in which magic helped
120 WHITE MAGIC
England during the dark hours of the war. There were
other ways, too, though I am only at liberty to mention one
other that came within my knowledge at the time.
Colonel Lawrence-"Lawrence of Arabia"-sent a
request to the Government here, at the most critical period
of his desert campaign, asking for magicians to be sent out
to travel among the tribes on the borders of the Mediter-
ranean and Red Sea, to pose as wandering native Holy
Men, perform big magic, gain a reputation for prophecy
and power-and prophesy the defeat of the Turks.
He specified that the magicians, if it were humanly
possible, should be Arabs themselves, and that in no case
should anyone be sent who was not entirely familiar with
the habits and customs and the very thoughts of the natives
among whom they were to move. It was obvious, of course,
that widespread disastrous results would follow the detec-
tion and exposure of these "Holy Men" as impostors doing
propaganda work for England I
Five magicians were sent out, three of them Arabs,
one a Frenchman who had spent a large part of his life in
Arabia, and one an Englishman whom the latter trained till
he was letter-perfect in his part.
The Frenchman and one of the Arabs disappeared. The
desert swallowed them up. No one knows, even today,
whether they were detected and tortured to death, or
whether they lost their way in the shifting sands and died
horribly ofthirst beside their dead riding-camels, or whether
they turned native after the war and stayed in the East.
They joined the silent army of the "Missing".
The other three carried out their work with a success
probably hardly foreseen even by Lawrence himself.
Moving to and fro over the sand-hills, gaining great repu-
tations, refusing all rewards, ascetic Marabouts whose least
word was gathered up and treasured, they foretold the
'I' HE S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 121
defeat of Turkey, and gained credence for this greater fact
by industriously prophesying all sorts and varieties ofminor
military affairs, which invariably happened exactly "accord-
ing to Cocker". The explanation, of course, was that
Lawrence and his Intelligence Department saw to it that the
"Holy Men" got news in advance of everything that was
going to happen.
Gradually the Turks found their native allies deserting
them. Trouble prophesied for certain waverers who per-
sisted in supporting the Turkish Armies always came down
in the end on the waverers' devoted heads- Allah (or
Lawrence) saw to that. Eventually, since it grew so pain-
fully clear that the "Holy Men" were right, and that Allah
fought on the side of the Allies, the Turks lost all their
native support, and Lawrence gained what they lost.
We have lost touch with the two Arab Secret Service
magicians since the war, but the Englishman is now a
great authority on bees, and has a prosperous little bee-
farm in Gloucestershire. Native memories are long, and
he will not allow his name to be published, but one or two
ofhis intimate acquaintances in the local Beekeepers' Associ-
ation can verify my story with more details than I have given
here; for thegentleman in questionbecomesquiteloquacious
about his desert adventures on the evenings when some of
his exhibits have gained prizes in local honey shows.
Let me return to my schoolboy memories of my father.
One of the most vivid to me, which also took place during
the war, though it had nothing to do with the struggle,
concerns also my first acquaintance with ghosts.
I was sitting in my father's dressing-room one evening
during a show at St. George's Hall, when a message arrived
for Father, who had just come offthe stage, and was remov-
ing his make-up there before a mirror. Presently a girl of
about twenty was shown in.
I.Z.Z WHITE MAGIC
She had seen the show, including a very spectacular
"ghost-raising" trick, in which Father first made a mist
appear on the stage, and from it materialized a white phan-
tom which spoke, moaned, and generally behaved as all
good phantoms do.
The girl, who was in a pathetic state of earnestness,
wanted to know whether, as we could raise ghosts, we
could also lay them.
It seemed that she was the daughter of a small land-
owner in Kent. The old man, always rather prone to super-
stition, had for the past two years been almost driven mad
by a ghost which haunted the wood behind his house.
After seeing this apparition at close quarters on two or
three occasions, he had suffered a nervous breakdown, and
was now very ill.
A climax had been put to the affair when the daughter
herself saw the ghost, as she returned one evening from
the village. It "jumped at her", gliding through the air,
and she described it as a "white, shapeless figure that
moaned". Being only very young myself at the time, the
phrase sank into my mind.
My father asked a number of questions, and then, to
my amazement, promised to come down and "lay the
ghost". The girl went away implicitly believing in his
power to do so, and greatly comforted. I naturally bom-
barded him with inquiries, but he preserved a grim silence.
"You shall come with me and see it all in good time,"
he said finally. I was delighted, but must confess to certain
tremors.
It was just after Christmas that the girl had called on
my father, and he chose New Year's Eve as the time when
he would endeavour to tackle the apparition, presumably
because that is a famous time for ghosts to "walk".
On New Year's Eve, therefore, we arrived at a little
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 123
Kentish station, and travelled thence, by means of a pony-
trap, to the village we sought, which was about three miles
from Biddenden. Dismissing the trap, we proceeded on
foot into the haunted wood.
Father had arranged with the girl who told us the story
to walk through the wood, past the haunted glade, at about
ten o'clock. She was also-and he was insistent on this-to
let the servants at home know of her intention.
At about a quarter to ten Father and I took up a position
in a thick clump ofhazels just beside the path, commanding
a good view of that section where the ghost had always
previously appeared. Father carried in the crook of his arm
a sporting-gun loaded with specially prepared cartridges
filled with saltpetre instead of shot.
The darkness in the wood was intense, and it was so
cold that it felt as if thorns were thrust under one's
finger- and toe-nails. Yet Father insisted that we both
crouched motionless in our places, watching the faintly
illumined patches of moonlight on the path.
As the silence grew, it became filled with little wood-
land noises of the night-flittering of leaves, tiny sighs,
ghostly movements and the echoes of elvish chattering.
Suddenly, without warning, a great white form sailed
over us, soundlessly, and I realized that a hunting owl had
gone by, seeking food. It cried mournfully a second later,
like the plaint ofa lost soul.
From far away in the stillness, sounding little and
musical like the horns of elfland, I heard the village clock
strike ten.
As if the sound had rung up the curtain on some wood-
land drama, there became evident to the ear a distant
occasional crackle, which rapidly grew into the sound of
light footsteps among the leaves far along the path. Then
the girl who had brought us here came into view, walking
124 ' W H I T E M A G I C
quickly, with rapid, nervous tums of the head to right and
left.
At the same moment several things happened. I saw
Father throw up his gun and heard the deafening crash ofit
bursting the night silence. The blaze of the explosion
momentarily dazzled my eyes, but, just before, I had seen a
white, impalpable monster, shapeless, but dreadfully
resembling a corpse in grave-clothes, sweep along the path,
some three or four feet from the ground, in a tremendous
inhuman leap towards the shrinking girl ahead. Simul-
taneously with the report of the gun there rose a sharp,
horrible scream, and the apparition vanished.
Father ran to the girl, who was half-fainting, ahead of
us. She was trembling all over when I arrived, but I could
hearherstillmurmuring: "Didyouseeit? Oh,didyouseeit?"
Her courageous action in venturing into the haunted
wood that night, however, helped to lay the Biddenden
ghost for ever.
Next day, Father went along to the local doctor, and I
was allowed to accompany him.
~ "Have you any patients this morning who are suffering
from swollen legs?" Father asked.
"Swollen legs I Good heavens, how do you know
anything about it, sir?" asked the doctor apoplectically.
"Swollen legs I Why, Blank, up at the Farm, has got legs
like pillow-cases. He says he shot himself in the legs with
some stuff he was preparing for some stupid New Year
party joke. New Year party indeed I He'll be lucky if he
can walk by the week-end. Put him on his back for a week,
that will! I suppose you were in the joke? It's saltpetre
that he's shot himself with, of course, though the fool
won't admit it 1"
It was saltpetre that had been used in the cartridges of
Father's gun the night before.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 125
To my great sorrow, I was not allowed to be present
at the subsequent interview between Father and Blank,
the young cowman at the Farm. But I fancy the latter was
pretty sorry for himself and his hauntings before that
interview was over.
He admitted freely that he had faked the hauntings of
the wood for the past two years, and babbled out some
story about revenge on the father of the girl who had
come to us for help. This man had employed Blank two
years before, and had dismissed him for some minor dis-
honesty.
When Father explained to him that his "ghost-raising"
had brought on a nervous breakdown in his former
employer, and might have ended in his death, in which
case Blank might have had to appear in court on a capital
charge, the man broke .down and blubbered. He swore
never to do anything of the sort again ; agreed to go round
that very morning and apologize humbly to the girl and her
father ; and gave up the impedimenta of his ghosdy imper-
sonations.
\Ve still have these in our Maskelyne museum today.
They consist of a sheet with holes cut in it for arms and
eyes, some luminous paint of the common phosphorus
variety, and a long rope. The latter our "ghost" used to
tie to a convenient tree branch, and then, by swinging
on the end of it, effect a leap of fifteen feet or so through
the air, well above the ground, towards his victim.
I think he suffered pretty severely during the night
after he got the saltpetre in his legs. He did not know what
the stuff was, of course, and firmly believed he was dying.
Anyway, he repented fairly thoroughly of his sins in terrify-
ing a superstitious old man and his helpless daughter ; and
he gave no more trouble in the village after that night.
I have had a good many subsequent adventures with
12.6 W H I T E M A G IJC
ghosts of one sort and another, as I shall presently tell,
but never again have I experienced the horrible thrill that
crept over me as I saw the Biddenden "ghost" swing
through the woodland glade that night.
I have learned since that there are no such things as
ghosts ; and if anyone has any apparitions which require
laying, a note, care of my publishers, will bring me along
at the earliest possible moment to perform the interesting
little ceremony.
If the Pale Lady is getting busy round the ancestral
corridors with her head tucked underneath her arm, or
Sir Hugh goes clanking his chains up the stairs of the
moated grange, or the Cavalier tosses his stingo down
while sitting in your best dining-chair, or the miser recounts
his shadowy gold at your table-drop me a line. I think I
shall be able to prove to you that ghosts-in the real sense-
simply don't exist, and to rid you of their worry for ever.
Several times in my career I have met impostors who
were cruel and wicked enough to try to reproduce ghostly
phenomena for the purpose of terrifying others. But I have
never met the real thing in apparitions, and never shall.
To the unfortunates who have been frightened by such
things I say in all sincerity-write to me 1You are being
victimized either by your nerves or by some criminally
minded person who hopes to benefit by frightening you.
I have laid ghosts of both sorts on occasion. So don't
let yourself be worried and made nervous and ill any more
-just write and tell me all about it. I will treat the letter in
confidence, and help you if I can. And I am perfectly sure
I can.
CHAPTER X
Mr. Devant retires-Death of J. N.-He tries to get through from
beyond the grave-Why I am banned from seances-When great
men die-My father experiments with radio-! leave school-
Down on the farm.
THE war, which caused such notable bodies as theAdmiralty
and Military Intelligence to call in the assistance of
Maskelynes' Mysteries, also brought great trouble to
St. George's Hall.
Mr. Devant, who had gone from triumph to triumph in
the years immediately preceding 1914, began to show signs
ofa nervous breakdown before the war had been in progress
many months. On the advice of his doctors, he eventually
parted with his interests in Maskelynes' Theatre, the control
of which reverted once more to my grandfather, who,
despite his advanced years, was as indomitable as ever.
The retirement of Mr. Devant at the very climax of his
wonderful career was the more regrettable because he had
done so much during his lifetime to bring honour on the
whole profession of magic. Only a few short months before
he left us a great gathering of magicians from America,
France, Germany, England and elsewhere had presentedhim
with an illuminated address of appreciation of his services
to wizardry, and accompanied it with a fine service of
silver-plate.
The presentation was made at St. George's Hall, in the
presence of over four hundred of the leading conjurers of
the world.
J. N. carried on at St. George's Hall, with my father to
assist him, and for a time the programme ran as sparklingly
127
WHITE MAGIC
as ever. But the work of managing the theatre and its
multitudinous inside and outside interests was too much for
my grandfather, who had already long passed the three-
score-and-ten years allotted by the psalmist.
Just as active as ever both in the workshops where our
apparatus was built and on the stage itself, J. N. still worked
about eighteen hours and slept only six out of the twenty-
four. In addition, he took an intense interest in the pro-
gress of the war, and continually busied himself with
inventions, some of which might have made his name
famous on the battlefield had he lived to perfect them.
But in 19I7, without showing any preliminary signs of
coming collapse, he called my father to him one day.
"Nevil," he said quietly, "I think my work is nearly
finished. I have enjoyed my life-the work of it, the
triumphs of it, even the troubles and the defeats. There is
only one thing now which puzzles me.
''You know I have always opposed spiritualism, and
have exposed a good many fraudulent mediums. But
famous and learned men-men like Conan Doyle and
Lodge-have apparently been convinced that there is some-
thing genuine in the belief. It is, I suppose, possible that
they may be right. I intend to try to find out. ·
"Listen, now. When I die, I shall make a very great
effort, ifit is permitted for dead people to do so, to establish
contactwithyou,andassureyouofthe reality ofspiritualistic
teachings.
"I want you, after I have died, to sleep for a few nights
in my bed, surrounded by my most intimate personal effects.
You ··can have a trumpet t.here, or anything else that
spiritualists commonly use.
"If it is possible at allfor converse to take place between the
dead and the living, I willestablish such contact withyou. Listen
for it ; wait for it ; try your hardest to pick up any messages
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 129
I may be able to send. We will prove or disprove this matter
once and for all."
Two days later, J. N. Maskelyne, Father of Modern
Magic, passed peacefully on to whatever existence awaits
us beyond the greatest Curtain of all.
My father did exactly as he had been commanded. Every
night for a week he slept in J. N.'s bed, surrounded himself
by personal objects dear to my grandfather, and by the
various impedimenta of the earnest spiritualist. During the
nights he lay awake listening for the promised message to
tremble into his consciousness.
Towards the end of the time, after eating very little and
concentrating his whole mind on the task of receiving any
impression broadcast from "the other side", he developed
a keen, nervous state which, I think, could not have missed
even the faintest "vibrations" directed towards him from
beyond the veil of death.
But nothing happened. There were no messages. There
were no inexplicable phenomena.
In fact, despite his resolute wish, and the perfect
readiness of his son to receive a message, J. N. was unable
to communicate with the person then most intimate with
him in this world-my grandmother, I should explain, had
died shortly before her husband.
The knowledge of this experiment has done more to
shake my own belief in spiritualism than anything else I
have ever experienced or known. Since then I have carried
on the challenge of my grandfather and father that I will
reproduce exactly any spiritualistic phenomena that any
medium can show to an unprejudiced audience.
I have sought for many years to be admitted to a seance.
Always I have been refused this request. Yet I, too, am
sincerely ready to be convinced.
Once I wrote to a very famous spiritualist pointing this
I 30 W H I T-E M A G I C
out. He replied that I should "spoil the atmosphere of a
seance".
As I could not be present myself, I sent to this celebrated
gentleman the two slates my grandfather had submitted to
"Doctor" Slade. These slates were bound and sealed
together in such a way that no human agency could have
written on the inner faces of them without leaving signs of
having first parted the slates. But surely spirits could do
this, since the fourth dimension is admittedly their play-
ground.
The slates were returned to me as blank as they went.
I am, as I say, stillwilling to be convinced by spiritualism
-when I am admitted to a seance, and persuaded by what
I seethere. Shouldthis happen, I willpublicly recantanything
I have said against spiritualistic phenomena.
But, in view of my grandfather's attempts to "get
through" to my father, and their utter failure, I shall require
to convince me something more than table-turning, or
voices shouting :~ "Put down that trumpet I" ·or vague
phantasms such as I can better on any stage.
I have said that my innumerable open challenges to
spiritualists have met with no response. I must qualify that
statement.
A year or two ago a man wrote to me saying that my
grandfather's spirit had communicated with him, and given
him a message for me. I saw this man at my London home.
He stated that J. N. had struggled very hard to get
through to him at a number of recent seances. He described
]. N.'s appearance, and mentioned a number of personal
tricks and characteristics that I thought were not known
outside the family, save by intimate acquaintances.
Then he said that J.N. had explainedto him theworkings
of a conjuring trick that he used to produce on the stage,
and whose secret died with him. The explanation of this
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 131
trick, I was told, was offered as proof positive that the
communication was a genuine one, and not a faked effort
on the part of my informer.
I listened to the story until it had ended. Then I explained
that the trick in question was one invented by my father, not
by J. N., and that the secret had died with the former, not
the latter, but that it had been solved a year before our
conversation by another famous magician.
After that, I showed my visitor the way to do ·the
vanishing trick down my stairs into the street. He was a
most apt pupil, and he vanished for good.
\Xlhen great men die-and I claim that J. N. was a great
man in his own sphere-there is almost always aspiritualistic
attempt to produce "messages" from the departed spirits.
I challenge the authenticity of these "messages" 1
It is significant that they are apparently seldom or never
received direct by any relative or dear one who might
reasonably be expected to remain in the consciousness of
the departed spirit. No ; the messages come to professional
mediums, whose names gain notoriety thereby.
There is another side to the q~;1estion. Often, when
mediums claim to have heard from widow's dead sons or
girls' dead mothers or lovers, money changes hands before
the revelations are finished. ,
I do not make this accusation out of spite. You have
only to look through the police-court records of our
country for the past few years to find innumerable examples
of what I mean.
Do the spirits of our beloved dead really sell their post-
mortem messages? I cannot believe it 1
At least, my grandfather never did that 1
His death was a very great blow to our family, and to
the magic performances with which our name was by this
time inextricably connected. St. George's Hall was draped
I
132. WHITE MAGIC
in black ; magicians sent condolences and regrets from
almost every country in the world.
For indeed a Master Wizard had left us.
The character of J. N. Maskelyne is already written in
more enduring characters than I can hope to form. This
man was a Napoleon of illusion, a Cresar of the stage.
Sheerly by the force of his own irresistible personality, he
created an entirely new form of public entertainment.
My father stepped pluckily into the gap that J. N.'s
death had created. Despite war-time difficulties, he carried
on at St. George's Hall, giving magic programmes of no
less variety and sparkle than of old. New tricks were con-
stantly being invented ; new magicians were employed ; the
literature and invention of the world were searched for
illusions old and new.
But from the very day when my grandfather's personality
ceased to pervade Maskelynes' Theatre, the magic ofthe old
name began almost imperceptibly to fade. Something was
missing.
Where is the sequel that is as powerful as the master-
piece that begat it ? Wflat great man's son was as great as he?
Nor was it only in the theatre that J. N. was missed.
For many years he had been supervising experiments
carried out by my father in connection with wireless
telegraphy. It is correct to say that long before even the
world of science had brought such a thing to any sort of
practical pitch my grandfather and father had conceived
the idea of radio stations which should broadcast popular
programmes to the general public, and were working on
apparatus that it was hoped would bring this dream into
reality.
J. N., with his lightning grasp ofany subject that might
subsequently be used to entertain his patrons, financed a
long series of experiments whose object was to perfect a
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 133
cheap receiving set of much the same style as is common
in almost every household today.
So far did these efforts proceed that a radio company
was eventually formed by my father, with the title of the
Western Telegraph Company ; and apracticallittle receiving
set was created, which could have been marketed quite
cheaply in large quantities.
But unfortunately the time was not yet ripe for such an
innovation. It was not of any great use selling receiving
sets if there was no Broadcasting Company to send out
programmes. At one time the project was actually con-
sidered of converting St. George's Hall into such a Broad-
casting Station. But the plan was too vast, and needed too
much capital, for J. N.,- at his advanced age, to under-
take it.
One finds an amazing example of the perversity of Fate
in the fact that, ten or fifteen years later, St. George's Hall
was actually bought up by the then all-powerful B.B.C., as a
concert-hall from which to broadcast variety programmes
and similar material. Had the Western Telegraph Company
not been born before its time, I might now be in the
position occupied by Sir John Reith, though I feel sure I
could not fill it with his Cromwellian effectiveness.
While all these stirring events were happening in
London, I was still at school. Like most other boys, I
drifted through the conventional school career without any
but the vaguest ideas about my future. I had no notion
what career I should follow when I left school, and was not
trained for anything in particular.
Curiously enough, I had then and have always had a
great longing to return to farming. I say "return" to
farming; it will be remembered from my earlier chapters
that John Maskelyne, owner of the little Wiltshire farm
under the wood, and first of all our family to dabble in
134 WHI'I'l: MAGIC
high magic, was the son of a long line of yeomen farmers,
and that my grandfather, J. N., came of the same farming
strain. When I retire from the stage, I am going to buy
back the old farm again-for it still stands-and settle down
there, even if the Little Gentleman in Black, familiar of
sixteenth-century John, should still haunt the place.
When I left school at last, my father called me to him
and asked me what I proposed doing for a living. I said
hesitantly that I supposed I would have to be a wizard like
himself.
"My dear boy," he said solemnly, "I am afraid you will
never be a wizard like me. Don't you remember our last
appearance on the stage, with Mr. Devant in the Royal
Performance at the Palace Theatre ?You very nearly spoiled
his trick ; and if you could spoil a Royal Command Per-
formance, you could spoil anything. Now forget all about
the family being magicians, and tell me what you would
really like to be."
"A farmer I" I responded promptly.
Well, it staggered him a bit, I fancy, but he was not
going to admit it. Indeed, he gave me a chance at the
thing above all others which I would have chosen as a
profession.
I was sent down to a farm near Cheltenham, which
belonged to an old friend of the family. Alas I I proved to
be just like lots of other youngsters \Vho have found that
a job in dreams is quite different from the same job in
reality. ·
To tell you the truth, I had fancied myself swaggering
abouttheploughland, wearing he-man's corduroys, directing
the labours of cattlemen and carters, perhaps giving a hand
myself on glorious sunny mornings in the fresh fields,
drinking warm creamy milk offered by the freckled comely
hands of milkmaids, quaffing nutty ale in the long evenings
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 135
round great log-fires, judging the ploughing contests,
leading in the harvest-home, and cutting a gallant figure at
the barn-dance that followed.
In time, I thought, I would take unto myself some jolly,
buxom farmer's daughter, who should look after my sturdy
little family at home while I rode true and hard to hounds,
and grumbled to my neighbours, as we guided our tired
beasts back after the kill, about the price of sheep-dip and
the state of the corn.
In reality it was all so different I In reality ploughing
gives you forty-three different kinds of aches in the back,
cows are milked by machinery that goes wrong and creates
blue murder if you take your eye off it for half a second,
days are spent not hunting but mucking out innumerable
cow-byres, and evenings not drinking but in a state of
exhausted stupor. In reality~ the barn-dances exist only by
squalling radio, the farmers' daughters all try to marry out
oftheir class and get away to the towns, and ploughmen and
carters evince an unconquerable aversion to any overseeing
by novices by the simple method of giving noisy and
sanguinary notice on the spot.
All these things I discovered for myself before I had
been farming in Wiltshire for a week. Picture me, then,
a raw town youth in his most awkward 'teens, far too
slenderly built and tenderly nurtured to compete against
the local huskies, trying to do incredible things with bulls
and milk-carts and agricultural machinery, and suffering
from the heavy wit of my companions in arms, from farmer
himself right down to the village half-wit who looked after
the pigs. The latter, in fact, was the worst of all, because
whenever I thought out a really good reply to his sallies, he
just went all gibbery, and the point was entirely lost.
It is not necessary here to recount in detail all my
adventures "do\vn on the farm". Suffice it to say that I
WHITE MAGIC
began by mistaking a bull for a cow, and ended by upsetting
a milk-float. -
In the first adventure, I started boldly crossing a field in
which a quiet-looking red animal was browsing. I had to
go with a message to my employer, who was working in
the Four-Acre Field on the far side ofthe pasture. Curiously
enough, I could see, walking cautiously· round the edge of
this same pasture, the half-wit to whom I have already
referred.
This boy looked after the pigs ·on the farm, but he was
mortally afraid ofcows, and had been all hislife. I determined
to show him, that morning, how groundless his fears were,
so I waved nonchalantly to him, and called a greeting, as I
walked across the meadow. He shouted something back to
me, but as he could not articulate words properly, I was
unable to make head or tail of his yells.
At the sound of my voice, the red animal, now about
thirty yards from me, raised its head. I reflected that it wore
its curls rather close for a cow, but then I was only a
townsman unacquainted with country fashions. Then I saw
it stare down at its forefeet, and begin a funny little prance
with them. I thought it was perhaps trying to scratch up a
beetle. Then it bellowed, and started at a swift ambling run
towards me.
Then I realized that it was a bull.
And that was how I learned to do the vanishing trick.
Not, perhaps, the conventional vanishing trick as performed
upon the stage, but a most effective and valuable substitute.
I streaked across the field and vanished through the hedge.
My assistant (the bull)-wellJ he assisted me 1
When I picked myself up, I found the pig-boy standing
beside me. At first I thought he was in a fit-he didoccasion-
ally suffer from fits. But on this occasion it was nothing of
the sort. He was just laughing.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 137
Mter I had been about a month on the farm-a month
of trial, terror and tribulation-I may be said to have
handed in my notice. Actually, it was posted from a town
five miles away. . . .
I had been put on to the task of taking milk round to
a chain of distant cotta2es which bought direct from the
farm. For this purpose I was given charge of a light milk-
float, between the shafts of which pranced a skittish pony.
I strove with that pony as Jacob strove with the angel, but
it was more skittish after than before.
One misty red autumn afternoon I was driving that
skittish pony down a deep lane, conveying the afternoon
milking to our customers, when my Pegasus met a bit of
paper that was blowing gently along the lane towards us.
He then tried to imitate his classic forebear by flying, but the
milk-float acted as a sort of anchor.
Personally, I was sorry. I would have preferred him to
fly untrammelled. As it was, the float jolted and bounced
from one side of the lane to the other. I lay back on the
reins and prayed to all my gods that the leat4er would not
part and let me down on the road on the back of my head,
and the milk-bottles gave a spirited representation of a
cargo of Mills bombs putting a sector of roadway under a
devastating barrage.
The runaway stopped eventually outside a village pub
facing the local station. I cast no aspersions whatever. By
that time, though the land was flowing with milk (I am
sorry I cannot say "and honey"), the trap itself was empty.
Empty even of me, for, with my present bruises and past
record, I did not feel equal to the strain of returning to my
master and explaining matters to him. The pony knew its
way home unaided (it was that sort of pony 1), and, after
all, where was the use of my going on working on a farm
where all the animals were so very much against me ?
WHITE MAGIC
I stepped smartly into the station, bought a ticket, and
waited for the day's train, which fortunately was its usual
half-hour late. When it arrived, I got into a carriage and
was whirled away at a good ten or fifteen miles an hour tQ
the nearest Big City. There I had friends, including a young
fellow of about my own age with whom I had previously
discussed some such dramatic ending of my farming career.
"If you ever do it, Jasper," he had said to me a week
or so previously, "come straight to me. We can put you
up for a night or two, and I'm pretty sure I can get you a
job with me, on the road."
Thus it was that I ceased to be a farmer, and became-
for positively a few appearances only-the attendant imp
on an extra-large steam-roller cruising Jove-like at two
miles per hour along the leafy Wiltshire lanes.
CHAPTER XI
My steam-roller and !-Experiments in electricity-"Lighting by
Maskelyne"-A stage part-Behind the scenes at St. George's
Hall-An effective spectre- Playing before Tibetan Lamas-!
propose to my assistant.
MY period of service on a steam-roller was even shorter
than that spent on the farm. If I was not born an actor, at
least I seem to have had no natural aptitudefor anything else.
I enjoyed it very much while it lasted. Sitting up on
high, in Olympian oblivion of such passing traffic as one
might see in those immediate post-war days, I helped to
roll out the Wiltshire roads, made abstruse studies of the
properties of macadam, gravel, chipped flints, sand and
other useful materials, and learnedhow road-surfaces "flow"
downhill under heavy traffic.
I might have gone on and prospered and today been
writing a treatise on English roads, but a kindly or unkindly
Fate intervened. One foggy evening, returning home on
my mighty steed, I wandered clean off the road into a patch
ofunfenced marshland. The first I knew ofthe business was
that the steam-roller, despite snorts and pantings and a
great revolving of wheels, refused to move forward, and
began settling steadily and overpoweringly into a deep
muddy wallow of its own creation.
A week later, it having been demonstrated to me mean-
while that I should never make a first-class rollerman, I
found myself in Essex, running a farm with a friend of
mine. This time I had nothing to do with the dairy depart-
ment, my genius being devoted to turnips, mangolds and
other root crops of peculiarly unpleasant habits.
139
WHITE MAGIC
To lighten my labours, I carried out extensive experi-
ments in electricity, in which I was becoming extremely
interested. Had I been apprenticed to an electrician, I am
fairly certain I should never have made my debut on the
stage, but by the perversity of things this very hobby
brought me my first theatrical success.
Just before my first Christmas in Essex, an amateur
dramatic society decided to give a performance of Babes
in the Wood, at Roydon. They viewed the village hall where
the show was to be given, and were disgusted to discover
that it was not equipped with any proper lighting facilities.
Main electricity was available, but the place was not fitted
for it ; and, as any stage-person will assure you, the finest
possible performance can be ruined by improper lighting.
Boldly enough, considering my very slight experience,
I offered to bridge the gap. I volunteered to wire the hall
for electricity, and get everything ship-shape in time for the
final rehearsals. The amazing thing is that I was entrusted
with the job.
The hall resounded with the tap of hammers and the
grating song of_the saw ; .wire cables whirled within like
the feelers of a mad cuttle-fish ; but gradually chaos was
reduced to order. A full week before Christmas I was able
to sweep up the litter and sawdust, and then proudly
conduct the panto-producer right through· the brilliantly
lighted hall to the stage, which was now equipped with
footlights, dimmers, spotlights and everything necessary to
a first-class dramatic performance.
Imagine me, on the occasion of the rehearsal that
evening, sitting high up in the flies above the heads of the
company on the stage, crawling precariously to and fro,
checking this and tightening that, making finally certain
that the "lighting by Maskelyne" was perfectly in order.
Below me, in mufti, the actors and actresses rehearsed
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 141
the pantomime in that (to the layman) entirely unintelligible
fashion that precedes dress rehearsals. They put imaginary
hats on invisible tables, to suit the action of the piece,
stated that they were sitting down or standing up according
as the affair needed such gyrations, and in the intervals of
saying their lines they discussed all sorts of irrelevant
matters until the producer's sharp : "Now, we'll just run
right through that again 1" recalled them to attention.
It seemed to me that one part- that of "Robin Hood"-
was being badly performed. The actor needed constant
prompting ; he did not know his gestures and actions any
better than his lines ; and when he finally had to kiss the
heroine, I was thoroughly disgusted at the lackadaisical way
he did it.
"If I couldn't kiss better than that, I'd take lessons 1"
I must have uttered the thought aloud, for I nearly fell
off my exalted perch at the sound of my own voice.
The rehearsal below stopped as if the players had turned
to stone.
"Who said that ?" inquired the wrathful voice of the
stage-manager from beneath.
Since there was no help for it, I slid down a rope on to
the stage, and admitted my guilt, apologizing at the same
time to the actor I had libelled.
"But I think I agree with you, my friend," he smiled.
"You see, I've been dragged into taking this part by George
here" (he indicated the stage-manager) "because the man
who was doing it has gone and got influenza. I'm only too
anxious to retire if we can get a substitute. Why don'tyou
have a shot at it ?"
"Yes-why not ?" put in the stage-manager.
I can only suppose that my efforts with the lighting had
turned their brains with gratitude, for they meant it
seriously. In those days, I was never averse to taking a
WHITE MAGIC
chance, so I asked for a copy of the "sides" of the part, and
started in there and then.
By Christmas I was word-perfect, and the part of
"Robin Hood" was politely handed over to me.
The great occasion of the opening night came, and
whatever else I did wrong, I flatter myself that I managed
- to kiss the heroine very realistically indeed.
Next morning I was surprised to see that the local
papers, in writing up the show, had all given me a personal
mention, not only for my lighting effects but for the way
I had played my part. Some of the reports were quite
eulogistic! Indeed, Ihave kept them to this day, so favourable
were they.
I was naturally pleased at my success, the more since
learning the part in the very short time at my disposal had
been a difficult matter. On the second night of the show I
put all that was in me into my performance, and really made
rather a good job of it.
Mterwards, an astonishing thing happened. I was told
that a gentleman wanted to see me, but would not give his
name.
"It's my beliefhe's one ofthe London theatre managers,"
whispered our producer, who had brought the message to
me. "He's got a top-hat on, anyway 1"
And a London theatre manager he proved. For my mys-
terious visitor was no less a person than Nevil Maskelyne,
Managing Director of St. George's Hall, and-my father 1
"I saw the Press notices about your performance last
night, Jasper," he said. "You didn't know the Morning
Post had a word about you, did you 1 So I ran down tonight
to see the show, just to get an idea what you were really
like."
"And was I all right?" I asked anxiously, knowing him
for my most severe critic.
T H E S T 0 R T 0 F M A S K E L TN E S 14}
"Pretty good!" he said musingly. "In fact-well, ifyou
like, Jasper, my boy, you can come back and join me at
St. Ge<}rge's Hall."
IfI liked I Shades of the turnips and mangold-wurzels !
And this was how I came to "go on the stage" as a
profession. I have never regretted it.
Let me deviate for a moment. Emphatically I did not
like farming when I was a youth and had to do it for a
living. Yet the old hankering to be what is loosely termed
a "gentleman farmer" survived and grew within me, and it
is there yet.
As soon as I could afford to do so, I took a holiday from
my stage duties and went back to farming for a change and
a rest. It wasn't much of a rest, but during the time I
entered a six-counties ploughing contest and WO? the title
of second-best ploughman there. I shall not be content till
I have won such a contest, and, later, till I have cut out a
niclie for myself in West-Country farm life.
To return to the story of Maskelynes.
At St. George's Hall I found the apprenticeship no less
fatiguing and lengthy than that which farming had offered
me. I returned to London big with ambition, promising
myself all sorts of successes which should eclipse my
amateur provincial beginning. ....__
"This brilliant young actor", and "a worthy grandson
ofthe founder of Maskelynes", were phrases that I thought
already as good as in print. But the path to fame proved a
long and arduous one after all.
For two years I was not allowed to set foot on the
St. George's Hall stage, save in the capacity of scene-shifter,
assistant behind the scenes, and general man-of-ali-work.
During the first year, I spent almost all my time in the
vast workshops behind the scenes. The carpenter's bench
and the lathe temporarily ousted the masks of comedy and
-144 WHITE MAGIC
tragedy. I was made familiar with the "mechanics" of our
magic ; learned just how the levitation and decapitation and
other wonderful illusions were performed, worked end-
lessly at apparatus, some of it as big as a small house and
some so minute that it could be hidden behindawrist-watch.
The machinery of magic is extraordinarily interesting.
Tricks which seem quite impossible to perform become
elementary once you have mastered the construction of the
apparatus used. Every illusion has its own apparatus.
You can apparently cut off a man's head, in full view of
the audience, make the head converse with the trunk, raise
the body into the air merely at a word of COtJ?.mand, pass
a steel hoop round the levitated body to show that it is
quite unsupported, cause persons to disappear while actually
being held by onlookers, make dead hands write and skulls
speak, cause a lamp to fly lighted through the air, make a
watch disappear from one man's pocket and appear tied
round the neck ofa rabbit in the lap ofanother man, permit
a member of the audience to fire at you with a marked
bullet from a real revolver and catch the bullet between
your teeth ... but why go on?
I could enumerate all the tricks in the magic calendar,
some so astounding as to be disbelieved until actually seen.
And in each case the apparatus does the trick, and the more
complicated the illusion, the more simple as a rule is the
apparatus.
After a year "learning the works", I was permitted to
go up into the flies above the St. George's Hall stage, night
after night, and watch the tricks actually being performed
by master wizards. From above, the machinery of illusions
is usually clearly visible.
To all would-be magicians I would recommend a few
months in the flies, learning as I did, before anything at all
ambitious is attempted on the stage itself.
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 145
At this time the world was thrilled by the news of the
discoveries in Tut-ankh-amen's tomb at Luxor, in the
Valley of the Kings.
For some reason, that fickle jade public fancy indulged
for a month or two in a wild flirtation with elementary
Egyptology. Every detail of the discovery was avidly read,
photographs showing the tomb and the finds filled our
papers, and King Tut became "news" in a bigger sense
than could ever have happened during his august life.
A very large part of the public interest was aroused
through an idle tale that a legend had been found in the
tomb roughly equivalent to that left by Shakespeare in his
epitaph : "Curst be he that moves my bones 1"
Lord Carnarvon's death lent fuel to the fire of super-
stition, and when it was followed-mainly in the course of
nature-by several other deaths among relatives of the
investigators, why, then that became "news" too 1
Egyptian tombs and tomb-robbers were the topic of the
day ; and St. George's Hall, always ready to reflect public
opinion, instantly staged a magic playlet, written by my
father and entitled The Scarab, in which direct reference was
made to this fascinating subject.
In the sketch, an archreologist discusses with a dealer
the sale of a mummy of King Ra-Thur of Egypt, but pro-
ceedings are complicated by the appearance of Joe Billiboy,
a burglar, who tries to steal the valuable mummy, and the
coming-to-life of the 8ooo-year-old royalty who is the
principal in these affairs.
I was given my first professional stage part as Joe
Billiboy, and earned £3 a week for playing it.
It was simple and easy enough, and consisted chiefly in
my making a dramatic appearance in the Egyptologist's
study, clad in a Bill Sikes cap and muffler. I took very
little part in the numerous magic transformations and
WHITE MAGIC
illusions that provided the real thrills of the playlet ; but
for me it was a great occasion none the less.
· I was now an actor ; I was facing the footlights in real
earnest; and no subsequent excitement quite compares
with this!
For a month or two life now ran smoothly for me.
I was absolutely immersed in my stage work ; at last I
had found the one job in the world for which I was fitted
and in which I had a deep and abiding interest. My per-
formances were consistent, though I was not as yet
entrusted with anything very important.
Then, one night, I ran up against the sort of mishap
which would have made something of a sensation if the
public had ever got to know of it ; my job was to prevent
such knowledge from spreading outside the theatre.
We were presenting a trick with a donkey, but the
donkey disappeared before its time. My father was on the
stage, and I was behind the scenes waiting to go on, when
an agitated magician came running up.
"My donkey's disappeared 1" he gasped. "Some fool's
left the door open at the back, and the damned beast has
vanished. We're due to go on in five minutes. What shall
we do?"
I hastily dashed off a note to my father, said a word to
the stage-manager, arranging with him to alter the order
of the programme, and, assisted by two clowns in full
make-up, raced out into Langham Place to try to trace
the lost quadruped.
Urgently seeking news of the missing brother, I was
presently joined by no fewer than five policemen, and we
presently ran him to ground nearly half a mile away, in
Berners Street, where he \vas walking sedately along,
apparently wondering whether Oxford Street itself would
be too hectic for one so unused to the exigencies ofcity life.
1' H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 147
The donkey, escorted back to the theatre by the five
constables, two clowns and myself, arrived in time to be
included as the penultimate turn of the evening. He "did
his stuff" perfectly, apparently quite unaffected by his taste
of urban excitements.
One of the earliest things I learned about magic was
that one must be just as careful while rehearsing it as when
producing it on the stage. This lesson was brought home
rather sharply to me by a curious happening.
Shortly before Christmas, I 924, we decided to introduce
into the St. George's Hall programme a topical sketch in
which ghosts were raised and laid. The family has always
been rather good at producing ghosts, and we practised
methods whereby, at a word of command, grey vapour·
appeared and materialized into a transparent draped figure,
candles and lamps \vere extinguished as if at the touch of
a cold phantom hand, and the spectre talked in the con-
ventional hollow voice and uttered dreadful warnings to
all and sundry.
I was trying out this trick one morning in the workshops
by myself, and had raised a very creditable Pale Lady to
whom I was conversing, when a sudden shrill scream
interrupted me with such suddenness that I almost fell off
the carpenter's bench on which I was sitting. The scream
was followed by the sound of retreating feet and the
slam of a distant door.
The intruder, whoever he was, had left behind on the
floor a perfectly good silk hat.
I went and picked it up, and found inside it the name
of an old and valued friend of the family, who lived in
the country but occasionally ran up to to\vn for a little
holiday. I knew the hotel where he always stayed, so I took
a taxi there at once, carrying the hat with me.
"I've never had such a ghastly shock in my life, Jasper,
K
WHITE MAGIC
my boy 1" my friend exclaimed when I was shown in to
him. ''I know you fellows do amazing tricks, and I can only
suppose the-the thing-I saw you talking to was one of
your illusions.
"But the fact is, I had dropped in to see you, and I
was thinking of something quite different, and to see that
dreadful shape standing there listening to you-well, I
was half-way to Oxford Circus before I realized that I had
taken to my heels. It's uncanny, my boy-hardly Christian,
in fact."
He was still quite white in the face, and I fancy the
unexpectedness of meeting a ghost like that in broad
daylight was even more of a shock to him than he would
confess, though probably had I been able to warn him
before he saw it he would have laughed at it just as I did
myself.
This same Christmas was notable in the annals of
St. George's Hall for the visit there of a party of Lamas
who were visiting England from Tibet with the object of
checking up their wide book-knowledge of the Western
world.
Since these Lamas, in their own way, are about as
important as Cardinals in the Church of Rome or Bishops
in our own Church, it was naturally a great occasion for us
when they indicated that they would like to attend a
private performance of English magic at our theatre.
Tibet is famous for its wizards, and the Lamas themselves
are credited by reliable authorities with being able to
"die" and be buried for many months, coming to life again
when dug up, and also with being able to raise the dead,
to exist without food or drink, and with other apparently
magical powers.
Behind the curtain we were on our toes when the
eighteen queerly robed figures filed gravely into the stalls
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 149
of the empty theatre, and we determined to give them a
really wonderful feast of wizardry. If my memory serves
me rightly, we did our levitation trick (the Lamas are said
to be masters of levitation themselves), the illusion in
which dismembered limbs and trunk are joined together
and become a real man, decapitation, ghost-raising, a trick
in which weapons are thrust through a coffin containing a
girl and the girl vanishes, and the illusion in which a girl
is apparently drawn through a two-inch hole in a big steel
plate.
Throughout the performance the Lamas sat silent and
impassive. No change of expression lighted their faces.
· They might have been graven images.
But afterwards, the Chief Lama came round to thank
my father for his courtesy in making them his guests for
the evening. At the same time he uttered a word ofwarning.
"These things which you showed us are very great
magic," he said slowly. "You and your sons must be very
wonderful wizards, and I think you are playing with
Powers whose strength you do not know, or you would
not raise them thus for the amusement of the impious.
"We cannot understand how it is that a man of
knowledge like yourself should be content to give that
knowledge unchecked to the world, as you do. Believe me,
0 Master, if you ever come to Tibet, you will either be
shut up in one of the greater monasteries where your gifts
can be practised away from the sight of common eyes, or
you will be fed slowly into little fires until you die."
And with a wonderful obeisance the old man left us.
Since then I have been on many tours, but I have
never been to the Far East. There was something in his
voice, and something even worse in his eyes, that one
cannot forget.
During the performance of the illusion in which a girl
150 WHITE MAGIC
is apparently drawn through a two-inch hole in a steel
plate, the Lamas were invited up on to the stage to watch
from close quarters. It was an impressive moment for me
when the whole eighteen of them wordlessly trooped up,
with a swish and rustle of robes, and arranged themselves
in a circle about myself and my assistant, leaving the
auditorium vacant.
This illusion is widely known as "Through the Eye of
a Needle". A 6o-gallon barrel, open at one end, was placed
on a small rug on the stage. The Lamas examined the
stage, rug and barrel. On the open top of the barrel, which
was upright, a riveted steel boiler-plate, one and a half
inches thick, was rested. In the centre "of this plate was a
hole two inches in diameter. The plate was examined by
the Lamas. This plate weighed about 90 lbs. and contained
240 rivets.
Then my assistant stood on top of the boiler-plate
while the Lamas examined the belt round her waist. This
belt had two interlocking rings instead of the usual buckle ;
these rings were tied with rope by the Lamas, who sealed
the knots with strange heavy seals of their own. On each
ring they tied a length of strong sash-cord twenty feet long,
and again sealed the knots that held the cord to the rings.
One cord was now passed down through the hole in
the steel plate and out of the bung-hole of the barrel below.
Another 6o-gallon barrel, previously examined, this one
having neither top nor bottom, was now placed by the
ChiefLama over the head of my assistant, and rested on the
steel plate, which itself rested on the lower barrel. The
second sash-cord was then drawn through the bung-hole
of the upper barrel. A handkerchief was now tied on the
rope tight against the lower bung-hole, and another was
pinned to my assistant's collar and left hanging loose over
the top edge of the upper barrel. ·
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 151
The Lamas now peeped into the top barrel to see that
my assistant was still there ; a lid was placed over her ;
and a Lama took each blind-cord. He who held the lower
cord pulled, and the one holding the upper cord slacked
it out.
Instantly the two handlierchiefs began to move-the
one on the lower cord coming away from the bung-hole
and the other sliding down out of sight into the top barrel.
The girl was being pulled through the two-inch hole
in the massive boiler-plate l
When the lower rope could be pulled no more, the
Lamas forgot their dignity and ran to the apparatus. You
must remember that they had been sitting round in a circle
meanwhile. They lifted off the lid and looked in the top
barrel.
Guttural ejaculations told that it was empty I
They lifted it off, flinging it recklessly along the cord,
whose other end could be seen passing down through the
boiler-plate into the lower barrel. They strained at the
steel plate itself, and set it down on the stage.
There was my assistant in the lower barrel, the cords
still passing-one out through the lo\ver bung, the other
up through the boiler-plate and the upper bung. Quite
obviously, since their queer Eastern seals were still
untouched on her girdle, she had been drawn down through
that steel plate.
The grave priests were quite overcome. They muttered
among themselves and drew uneasily away from me.
Finally, the interpreter asked me to repeat the trick.
We did it three times before they were satisfied-!
believe they would have liked the performance to go on
all day l
Before we left the stage the interpreter gave me a
warning similar to that later offered to my father.
152 WHITE MAGIC
"In Tibet," he said ingratiatingly, "we should think
you very great Master 1If you no enter monastery, we put
you in barrel, drive many spikes therein, and roll you
down into the great river, for so we treat mighty devils in
our land. But perhaps you would enter a monastery, 0
Master 1"
I admitted that perhaps I would.
My assistant in this illusion was a young lady named
Evelyn Home-Douglas, who had only very recently joined
us. Mter "passing" her through the steel plate a few times,
I felt an impulse quite new to me in my career as a wizard
-to follow her through the hole, or wherever else she
might go in this old world that had suddenly become so
dull without her but so gay when she was near.
This I recognized as real magic, so I followed the
tradition of the family (and of Mr. Devant), and married
within the profession, though only just, for she left the
stage when we married, though her sister Cecil helped me
in the show for over five years.
Now, in addition to looking after our youngsters,
Alistair and Jasmine, she designs all my stage settings that
you see up and down the country, and is my ultimate guide
and critic in all business matters. Many a time I have had
cause to bless the day that provided me with such a fine
business adviser, and such a loyal, splendid pal.
CHAPTER Xll
Magic in the past-Black Magic still lives-Werewolves and Vampires
-A history ofwizardry-Tests for Satanists-Rasputin-Magical
evolution-Cagliostro-Pinetti-De Grisi-Houdini.
IN an earlier chapter of this book I promised to say some-
thing about Black Magic, both within my own experience
and outside it. During the two years I spent as an apprentice
to Magic, in the nether regions of St. George's Hall, all
my time not actually spent in the workshops or in the flies
above the stage was employed in reading up the subject of
wizardry, black and white.
This, therefore, being the hiatus between my account
of past Maskelynes and the story of my ow:n stage career,
seems an appropriate place in which both to keep my
earlier promise and to tell you something of the very
ancient art of Black Magic.
But do not think, because it is an old belief, that the
world has outgrown Black Magic. There is no shadow of
doubt that it is still practised today, not only in its original
home in Madagascar or by a few primitive negroes terrified
by Voodoo, but in the heart of fashionable London, and
by rich society leaders and powerful business men.
In the circle in which I move by reason of my profes-
sion, magic black or white and all its latest manifestations
is necessarily "shop" talk. And I was told, on-what seemed
to be undeniable authority, that the death of a famous
millionaire a year or two ago, unexplained by any of the
usual reasons of financial insecurity or ill-health, was
caused by his own terror at certain devilish manifestations
1.53
154 WHITE MAGIC
he had raised after being led into the black and horrible
paths of modern Diabolism.
'The worship of the Goat of Mendes, Baal, Pan, Kali
and others of the Devil's accredited henchmen is still
carried on, behind closed doors and to the accompaniment
of unspeakable orgies and atrocities, by persons who, in
the light of day, are apparently benevolent and respectable.
England is a land of scoffers, yet it is not free of the
taint. On the Continent, Diabolism is a recognized menace.
A trial for witchcraft took place in France as recently as
1926, at which high qfficers of the Roman Catholic Church
attended; and the accused was found guilty.
Reports of Werewolves and Vampires come to us
every year from the older lands, such as Russia and the
East, and they seem to be vouched for in every particular.
Personally known to me is a highly placed officer in
the police service in British North Borneo who not merely
believes in Vampires that suck human blood, but claims to
have seen one at work, and to have performed the necessary
horrible rites on the native corpse to which this Vampire
belonged, so that the soul of the dead man could rest.
My informant is a steady-nerved, practical man of
immense Eastern experience. Yet he implicitly believes that
he dug up a corpse that had been buried nearly a year,
and found it fresh and undecayed, with red lips parted and
bright eyes open ; and that when he cut off its head and
thrust a stake through its chest it screamed like a lost soul,
and writhed, and that a great black bat fell dead into the
open grave beside it.
I know, too, a French police officer, now retired, who
was introduced to me by a distinguished French conjurer.
'This officer solemnly assured me that, in France, England
and elsewhere, tiny children are kidnapped every year, to
be offered as human sacrifices, with foul and unspeakable
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES ISS
rites, to the Devil, to ensure his alliance towards the people
who still worship him in secret.
It is not my ·purpose here to enlarge on the problem
of modern Satanism, but rather to attempt a thumb-nail
sketch of magic down the ages, of which it is the diabolic
present-day manifestation, just as my own White Magic
is the civilized child of the wizardry of Medin and the
Good Fairies.
Belief in magic is as old as humanity itself. Buried with
mummies seven or eight thousand years old, modern
archreologists discover charms and rituals placed beside
the corpse to save the soul from the clutching hands of
fiends on its last journey from earth into the Unknown.
I have no doubt that the Piltdown Man wore an
amulet, though he may have worn nothing else. Relics of
incredible age, in Mrica, Australia, America, Asia and
Europe all testify to the dreaded powers of wizards,
human and inhuman.
In Mrica today, and in many other places as \Veil,
grown men and women take the most extraordinary
precautions to propitiate the spirits, and to avert the Evil
Eye. Mter all, how many of my readers would walk under
a ladder, spill salt, cross knives, or fail to experience a
slight sense of spiritual discomfort at the smashing of a
mirror?
Charms or mascots are worn by half our population in
Great Britain, and by nine-tenths of our cars ! When I was
a schoolboy, fully half the juniors who \Vere at school \vith
me willingly gave up halfpence and dainties to a slightly
deformed boy of our own age who simply stated that he
was a sorcerer, and left it at that 1
In primitive times the correct setting for the conjurer
was not the theatre but the temple. The Old Testament is
full of stories of soothsayers and wise men and wizards.
WHITE MAGIC
From Pharaoh's magicians to the Witch of Endor, from·
Joseph telling the meaning of dreams to St. John writing
the Revelation, we have almost unbroken records of magic
of one sort or another.
Indeed, we have proof positive of uncanny manifesta-
tions not only in the Old Testament but in the New.
Christ Himself cast out devils ; diabolic possession,
according to all modern authorities, was not merely what
we call epilepsy or madness, but real control of the soul
by certain non-human agencies.
There do not lack modern clergy, both of our own and
other Churches, who say that this "possession" is still to
be met with today, and that certain rare individuals even
now have the power to cure it by the laying on of hands.
Contemporary with Old Testament records, we have
indisputable accounts of magic being practised in ancient
Egypt, in the Maya civilization, among the Aztecs, in the
Bantu civilization of Mrica, in Greece, Rome, and among
the Hun hordes of northern and eastern Europe, to name
only a few places.
The Oracle at Delphi is perhaps the most famous
example known to us of a magic temple of olden times.
But it seems certain that almost all the false religions of
the early world were founded on conjuring tricks, legerde-
main and illusion.
Temple doors opened of themselves, statues bled or
wept or nodded, bells and sistrums sounded when no
hand touched them, mystic voices spoke of the future (in
suitably ambiguous terms) out of the thin air, scoffers
vanished from human ken, plagues and droughts descended
upon their cattle, but all went well with those who pleased
the gods by contributing generous offerings to the temple
staff.
In the midst of this organized robbery by the conjuring
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES IS7
classes, Christianity came like an exploding bomb. Here
was a religion that did not depend on sleight-of-hand and
mechanical tricks.
And so what had been a world-wide loosely knit
fraternity offraud and illusion was shattered into fragments.
The fragments were very hard to destroy, of course; all
over the globe today you can find religions still based on
the magician's art, whose priests live on the fat of the land
while their devotees starve to feed and keep them.
It is said, I believe with accuracy, that nearly all the
great Hindu temples nowadays, where the old conjuring
tricks are still worked for the benefit ofthe black credulous,
are farmed out on long leases by rich Babu families to the
priests who work them. In fact, the relationship between
the Babus and the priests is precisely that of the British
coalfield owners to the mining companies-a royalty is
received on takings.
Since belief in the supernatural dies hard, Christianity,
though it lightened the Western world, left a lot of black
shadows in holes and corners, and to these the superstitious
crawled with a glad fervour. Love-philtres were sold in
A.D. x, and they are sold today in many parts of rural
England. Wizards were consulted by the Romans just as
wart-charmers are consulted now.
The king-pins of the sorcery trade, however, have
always been those brave individuals who professed to
dabble in witchcraft pure and simple. Even the alchemists
and the astrologers gave precedence to these.
And yet, if the rewards for the successful wizard were
great ones, as they undoubtedly were, the price of failure
was a heavy one. Now and again, yokels stirred to savagery
by long years of robbery and oppression, would turn on
the priests of darkness, risking the revenges of all the
powers of Hell.
WHITE MAGIC
Then away went the witch or magician to the nearest
horse-pond, and after a trial which consisted of a lengthy
jabbing with pins and knives to see if an insensitive spot
could be found (true mark of the touch of the Devil's
fingers!), the offender was flung into the water and kept
there by the gentle aid of long poles and pitchforks until
such time as the rustics had decided whether drowning
was possible or impossible.
This was, of course, rather hard on the accused. It was
a common belief that a disciple of Satan could not be
drowned. Of course, if the unfortunate did drown, the
supposition was that he or she had been unjustly accused
after all. But that was not a lot of use after the drowning
had taken place ; and as long as the swimmer kept on the
surface, or merely popped below a few times obviously in
order to hold private converse with the Father of Lies-
well, so long were the poles and pitchforks busily plied,
and the t.est went merrily on.
I have, among my collection of books on magic, an
extraordinarily interesting little volume published early
in the seventeenth century by one, Joseph Glanvil,' entitled
Plain Evidence Concerning Witches and Apparitions.
This book consists simply of an account of Dr. Glanvil,
who was an educated man, and a great friend of Charles,
Duke of'Richmond and Lennox, ofcases ofso-called witch-
craft, Devil-raising and superhuman possession, most of
which had come within his own or his friends' experience.
It is an amazing list.
The book contains some intensely interesting descrip-
tions of "Witches' Sabbaths", in which hags and wizards
dance naked about old stone altars, lighted by black candles.
The Lord's Prayer is chanted backwards, stolen Com-
munion wafers are defiled, feasting and orgies take place
-and then, at the climax of the affair, a little gentleman in
''I'HE STORY OF MASKELYNES 159
black silk appears in the midst of the revellers, who fall on
their faces about him.
After this, prayers for power or wealth are uttered,
wax images of enemies are melted or pierced with pins,
and petitions are put forward. Those of the unholy wor-
shippers who wish to haunt or to have power over other
people are permitted to fly thence on broomsticks and
wands touched by the Devil, and, passing through solid
obstacles and travelling immense distances in the winking
of an eye, achieve their desires and return instantly to the
bodies still lying in worship before the black-clothed
Adversary.
I should add that in all the cases mentioned in Glanvil's
book the witches and wizards were subsequently tried by
educated magistrates and judges of the times, and found
guilty of witchcraft, and that most of them perished either
by the water-test I have described above or by ordeals still
more horrible.
Of these experimentalists in Black Magic, the modern-
day Satanists are the spiritual descendants. Diabolism is
said to be practised now in an endeavour to attain money
and power ; and, so long as the adepts keep themselves to
themselves, and do not let the police hear of their soul
practices, they are in considerably less danger than were
their predecessors of less civilized eras.
Yet resentment to the dark habits of suspected Devil-
worshippers dies hard. I remember my grandfather telling
me of a case which came within his o\vn notice, and which
he mentions in one of his books, wherein a Frenchman
living in the Essex village of Sible Hedingham was
literally swum to death, after having been kicked and
beaten for an hour by men and women, because he was
believed to be in league with Satan.
Occasional lynchings of this nature occur even now in
160 W H I T E M A G I C
rural England, though they are naturally not reported as
such in the Press, since the killers take care that the death
of the so-called sorcerer shall seem accidental, or else the
work of some untraceable murderer.
In Russia, at least, we have a modern instance of an
accredited Satanist, Rasputin, being slaughtered because
he was believed to be in league with the Devil. Anyone
who has read the amazing book Rasputin, by William
le Queux, can find chapter and verse for the accusation,
and a most vivid description of the superhuman amount
of killing that the rascally old monk required, though
whether this proved his diabolism or not the author
naturally does not say.
While the followers of Black Magic were carrying on
their dangerous experiments in this way, the alchemists,
astrologers and others were developing the study of magic
along more decent lines. Broadly speaking, their researches
may be subdivided into two main heads, the effort to
discover a method of transmuting base metals into gold
and age into eternal youth, and a serious study of prophecy
by the aid of the stars.
Astrology developed into astronomy, in which depart-
ment my ancestor, Nevil Maskelyne, became famous in
the time of George III. The alchemists, after a time,
subdivided again within their own cabal.
Some became doctors of medicine ; some became
chemists whose studies were the basis of much that we
now know about food, metals, materials and matter
generally ; and a few-and as I claim these were the purest
line of descent-turned illusionists, exchanging the dream
of the Philosopher's Stone, that was to turn lead into gold,
for the reality of the Mystery Theatre which derives gold
from public amusement and entertainment.
The spiritual father of all modern illusionists and white
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYN ES 161
magicians was undoubtedly Cagliostro, the hero ofDumas's
book, The Memoirs ofa Physician. Son of an Italian peasant,
this remarkable man rose to immense fame and riches
shortly before the French Revolution. It \Vas said of him
at the height of his celebrity that he wore a King's ransom
in diamonds as ornaments on his magic robe.
At about the same time Comus I gained notoriety
throughout France for his "writing hand". This man later
came to London, where he created a sensation.
A little later Pinetti came to London with a really
clever thought-reading act. He had with him a little figure
about two feet high, which he called the Wise Little Turk,
and this figure answeredquestions concerningarticlesoffered
to Pinetti by members of the audience.
Robert Houdin and Heller later developed this thought-
reading trick to a pitch that borders on the uncanny. In
their presentations, the "seer" sat blindfold on the stage
while the assistant took an article from the audience.
Suppose the article was a seal. The "seer" would tell, in
answer to questions, of what metal and what stone the seal
was made, the initials on it, how they were engraved, the
approximate weight of the seal, the type of chain on which
it was hung, the sex and approximate age of the owner, the
colour and cut of his clothes, and all without receiving
any apparent suggestion of a "pointer" from the questions
asked by the assistant.
The whole secret is that such thought-readers, before
they appear on the stage, learn a very lengthy and com-
plicated code. In this code, the letters in such stock questions
as "What is that ?" or "The maker's name ?" stand for
prearranged words giving the clues to the ans\vers desired
by the assistant.
It takes two or three years of intensive study to learn
one of these codes, as may be guessed, since·the objects
WHITE MAGIC
offered for identification by the audience are in no way
restricted, and the "seer" must answer swift as lightning
or the whole thrill of the trick is lost.
At the height of his fame, Pinetti, founder of thought-
reading tricks, gave a performance in Naples. A young
French exile, the Comte de Grisi, an amateur conjurer, later
repeated several of Pinetti's tricks at a party for the amuse-
ment of his friends.
Pinetti heard of this and was furious. He developed a
sham friendship with de Grisi, persuaded the latter one
evening to take his place on the stage in Naples, and then
succeeded, by means of a sleight-of-hand, in introducing a
pack of marked cards into the impedimenta with which the
amateur was going to perform.
Presendy de Grisi went up to the box of the King of
Naples, who was present at the show, and asked him to
draw a card from the pack, as part ofa trick he was perform-
ing. The King drew out a card at random, but found that
it was pencilled across with an obscene lampoon concerning
himself. He immediately left the theatre, causing a great
sensation.
De Grisi was ruined and exiled. He then sold his family
heirlooms and jewellery, and with the proceeds took lessons
under the most famous conjurers of the day. At the end of
a year he was ready for his revenge on Pinetti.
He followed his enemy round from town to town,
giving much better performances in each place. Pinetti
lost his reputation, became a laughing-stock, and died of
starvation.
De Grisi, however, was not to find final happiness in
magic. He attained a great reputation after giving a
performance before an audience of Cardinals in Rome, but
shortly afterwards his only son was shot while appearing
on the stage, a real bullet being placed among some sham
'r HE S 'r 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 163
ones used in a trick in which his father appeared to fire at
him with a matchlock. It was said that a nephew of Pinetti's
was responsible for the substitution that resulted in the
tragedy.
The wounded youth died almost at once, and de Grisi,
utterly broken up by his part in the affair, never appeared
before the public again, and very soon afterwards he also
died of a broken heart.
Before he passed away, however, he had handed on
the torch direct by training a French lad, Robert Houdin,
who was later to become one of the greatest illusionists of
all time.
By means of an apparatus whose secret was explained
to him by de Grisi, Houdin enabled a French nobleman to
catch in the act a servant who had been systematically
robbing him for two years. This man had stolen some
2.o,ooo francs, but the money was recovered, and the
nobleman loaned it to Houdin, who used it to start in Paris
a French forerunner of what Maskelynes' Theatre later
became in London.
Houdin used electricity for a number of his tricks, and
as it was then almost unknown to the public, he was natur-
ally able to create some astonishing illusions. He reproduced
the Fakirs' tricks of making a date-palm grow from a
stone under the eyes of the audience ; he produced talking
skulls and spirit cashboxes, and some exquisite tricks with
animals and birds.
Mter Houdin came Anderson, the self-styled "Wizard
of the North" ; Pepper-now immortal for "Pepper's
Ghost", a clever illusion worked with mirrors ; and then
J. N. Maskelyne.
Before my own initiation into the mysteries of White
Magic, I spent innumerable hours studying the \vorks of
these past-masters. My researches took me as far afield as
L
WHITE MAGIC
the British Museum (whose Egyptian papyri translations
have furnished me with the secrets of tricks practised
before the Pharaohs and which I have since successfully
revived), the private collections of men famous and
obscure who have made a life-study of necromancy and
illusion, and to many queerer places still.
To this day I still pursue any out-of-the-way bit of
knowledge about present or past wizardry. I shall always
do so. For a stage magician, if he is to keep really abreast
of his work, and to carry forward his minute personal
part of the world study of magic, must do far more than
just produce pretty illusions before the footlights.
His work must be a world-wide search for mystery,
natural or supernatural ; and if he succeeds, even by one
iota, in his lifetime, in throwing the light of reason on to
the dark spots of human superstition and misguided
credulity, then he may fairly hope to be accounted a success
by his peers in the magic world.
CHAPTER XTII
An all-in wrestling match with a Co-Optimist-A canary that wouldn't
vanish-Why I use rubber animals-Death of Nevil Maskelyne-
Lightning at his burial-! become Managing Director of St.
George's Hall.
ONE of the first big illusions presented on the stage in
which my future wife helped me was the cause of a little
excitement on the occasion of its first appearance.
In this trick I invited a committee of strangers from the
audience to come up on the stage, so as to see for them-
selves that there was no obvious spoof in the performance.
Now, it is a fixed idea of those exasperating persons who
believe that they can explain away "how it is done" from
the beginning to the end of the magician's calendar that
these committees are stage-hands iri the pay of the illusion-
ist, and that though they see the works of every trick, they
just pretend not to do so, in order to delude the audience.
I have even met people who declare that they have seen
my performances iri various theatres, and that the com-
mittees I invite on to the stage are always the same men ;
presumably these individuals travel round with me for the
love of the thing, since I certainly do not pay them to
do sol
However, at the performance at St. George's Hall of
which I am speaking, there was certainly one member of
the conup.ittee who was not secretly in my pay, and that
was David Burnaby of the Co-Optimists.
When he climbed on to the stage, he was greeted with
a cheer; for at that time London was very proud of its
Co-Optimists, who had boldly put on a play on the share
165
x66 WHI'I'E MAGIC
system, the company risking their savings and their
salaries on the success of their work-with what golden
reward for courage the whole world now knows.
I placed my committee here and there about the stage,
giving them their own choice of position up to a certain
point. The trick I proposed doing was to place Miss Home-
Douglas inside a cannon on the stage, fire the cannon at a
nest of boxes which hung from the theatre ceiling, high
above the heads of the audience ; and then, hey presto 1
the cannon was empty and the lady was found in the
middle of the nest of boxes.
Mr. Burnaby" suggested that he would like to put his
hand on the mouth of the cannon, as I fired it, so that his
hand would be struck aside by my "human cannon-ball" as
she hurtled through the muzzle on her way into the
suspended boxes.
Now, with an ordinary committee tnember, I might
have had no objection to offer to this course, except to
warn the daring one that his hand might be badly hurt.
B1;1t Mr. Burnaby is, as I happened to know, a distin-
guished amateur illusionist himself. An ordinary member
of the public could have stood there and been no wiser-
though probably sadder-at the end. But I was afraid that
Mr. Burnaby, with his shrewd knowledge of illusion
apparatus, might guess rather more of the "works" of the
trick than I was prepared to show, since it was one of our
best feats at the time.
Mr. Burnaby, however, was as determined to choose
his own place on the stage as I was not to allow him to do
so 1 In the end, we had a sqrt of friendly hand-to-hand
struggle (ail-in wrestling aIa mode 1), and Mr. Burnaby,
being much bigger and heavier than I am, beat me hands
down.
But then he was too much of a sportsman to take
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 167
advantage of his victory. The trick proceeded ; I fired the
cannon ; when the smoke cleared away there was my
assistant some sixty feet above our heads, in the basket-
nest, high above the auditorium. And Mr. Burnaby's
hand and my reputation were still intact.
Such little difficulties as this are the pepper of a stage
magician's life.
I had another pinch of pepper within a couple of days
of this incident. I was producing the disappearing bird-
cage illusion, first invented by Bautier de Kolta in my
grandfather's time.
To perform this trick I came on to the stage carrying
an ordinary wire bird-cage containing a canary. It was a
rubber canary; this does not affect the trick, as it is just as
easy to perform with a live bird. I will explain my choice
later. Anyway, even the rubber bird could hop about and
twitter.
Passing down the bird-cage to any member of the
audience who wished to examine it thoroughly for himself,
I then took it in my hands again, and offered to throw it to
anyone who was cricketer enough to catch it. Selecting
from the half-dozen replies I received, I swung the cage
through the air three times, and, on the third swing, it left
my hand and flew towards the patron \vho had offered to
catch it.
But when I asked if he had received it, he replied in
the negative. Apparently astounded, I stepped down into
the stalls, walked to his seat, and looked about for the
cage, though without success. Then I asked him if he
thought I had the cage hidden under my coat.
Usually, the answer to this question was a laughing one
that a magician might have anything under his coat l So I
took off my coat, passed it round among the audience for
examination, and it was finally returned to me with the
t68 WHITE MAGIC
guarantee that there was neither bird nor bird-cage con-
cealed within its folds or lining.
Tossing it negligently over my arm, I noticed imme-
diately that it would not lie flat; in fact, that the outline
of a cage was visible under it, and that the twitt~ring of
the canary could again be heard.
Lifting the jacket in astonishment I revealed the cage,
with bird inside all complete wit..lUn it.
That, at least, is how the trick goes when it goes 1 On
this night in particular it went, but went wrong 1
I showed the cage to the audience, rec~ived it back
again, and stood before the footlights swinging the cage
towards the selected patron who had offered to catch it.
On the third swing the cage left my hand in a manner quite
contrary to what I had intended.
There was no need to ask whether my amateur assistant
had caught it or not ; he could not have been much of a
cricketer after all, and he did not catch it. Instead, it crashed
into the back of a seat, narrowly missing an old iady's
bonnet, and fell in a crumpled heap to the floor.
Because of such possibilities, I do not use live birds ;
there is also another reason, as I shall explain presently.
I ran down to the place where the bent and broken cage
was lying, and picked it up. Everyone was tremendously
interested, and unkindly anxious to see a magician caught
out at last 1
"Ladies and gentlemen," I announced, "of course you
are all aware that I did not mean to throw the cage as
clumsily as that. As you see, it is bent and twisted out of
shape." ~
I called a stage-hand down, and gave the remains to
him, telling him to take them behind the scenes, which
he did. Then I turned to the audience again.
"Of course," I said, "I cannot offer you such a ruinous
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S X: E L Y N E S I 69
bird-cage as that for your final inspection. But, being a real
magician, I don't see what is to prevent me from producing
a perfect one in its place, out of the air."
I took offmy jacket and passed it round. It was returned
to me with the usual guarantee that it had "nothing up its
sleeve". I then cast it over my arm- when the bird-cage
shape appeared underneath it, and lo and behold ! (as Moses,
that Master Magician, used to say), there was an undamaged
bird-cage and a perfect rubber canary chirping away as if
it could not get its notes out fast enough.
The audience was rather pleased with that I
Now as to this affair of rubber animals. I never use live
birds or beasts or fishes on the stage unless the conditions
are such that it can be clearly proved that they are neither
hurt nor frightened by their sudden publicity.
This is not the case in the disappearing bird-cage illusion.
Some time ago a very famous and clever magician was
accused of hurting the canaries he used in this trick. He
replied that he did not hurt them, and that he could prove
his words.
I believe the case eventually went to Court, and that it
ended in the House of Lords. There followed the rather
curious incident ofa conjurer performing an illusion before
a breathless assembly of peers and bishops, in England's
oldest house of government.
The magician performed the vanishing bird-cage trick
perfectly, and the canary he used was afterwards examined
and found to be quite uninjured.
But-and it is a big but in my mind-I do not see how
anyone could perform this illusion without terrifying the
bird used. I am prepared to admit that it is a matter of
opinion, but it is my opinion, and I stick to it.
Moreover, although the magician in question 'vas suc-
cessful in not hurting the canary, I could not guarantee to
I 70 W H I 1' E M A G I C
perform that illusion half a dozen times without hurting the
bird I used. And I consider tnyself as quick and skilful a
magician as most of my contemporaries.
It is a significant fact, perfectly easy of proof, that when
this trick was first performed, and for many years after-
wards-in fact, until rubber canaries came into common
use-canaries' legs got broken and rebroken time after
time in the presentation of this illusion.
De Kolta, inventor of the trick, himself changed his
method so as to use a rubber bird, because, he said, the
trick was almost impossible to perform swiftly without
breaking the canary's legs.
For years, in fact, the birds' legs were broken, and
mended with match-sticks for the next performance, when
match-sticks and legs would be broken again. In such cases,
it was usual for the bird to die after about a score of
performances, at which its legs were rebroken almost every
time.
I cannot doubt that the particular illusionist who took
his case to the Lords had a unique and splendid aptitude for
this particular trick, and that he never hurt the birds he
used. It does sometimes happen that one man can perform
one trick better than anyone else. But I have never met
anyone else with this ability, and I do .not possess it
myself.
It was very soon after I became engaged to Miss
Home-Douglas that my father, Nevil Maskelyne, died.
He did not, perhaps, achieve as wide a fame as a magician
as that attained by my grandfather. But, then, J. N. was as
great a man in his own especial sphere as Lord Northcliffe
was in journalism or Marconi in wireless telegraphy.
Nevil Maskelyne was a wonderful electrician, tied by
tradition to the bricks and mortar of St. George's Hall.
Painstakingly and well he taught himself to be a master
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 171
illusionist, but his heart never thrilled at the glitter of the
footlights or the clatter of appreciative applause.
I believe that he might have made a name as famous as
that of Marconi had he had the courage of his convictions,
and, as ]. N. himself did, thrown over everything for the
one profession on which his mind was set. Instead, he kept
one foot in the theatre and one in the laboratory. What
my grandfather, whose magic was his life, would have said
had his son cut himself offfrom St. George's Hall I cannot
imagine. Yet such a course might have been the happier
one in the end.
Before my father died, he repeated to me, almost word
for word, the last instruction of his father to him. He said
that he wished to convince me about spiritualism-whether
it was a great delusion or a strange reality. He asked me to
sleep in his bed for a day or two after his passing, and to
be ready to receive the slightest message from him, if he
could by' any chance get into communication with me.
It was an uncanny sensation, resting there, with him
lying dead in the house, and waiting for a message from the
departed soul of the man who had been-and still is-so
dear to me, and so wonderfully and sympathetically my
friend.
No message came through.
It has been stated in a leading spiritualist magazine
that my grandfather, ]. N. Maskelyne, confessed to a well-
known surgeon, just before his death : "It is all true.
Spiritualism is all true, but I dare not tell the public."
T~e same statement has been attributed in print to my
father.
I would like to say here that it is a foul lie, and an
abominable libel, in both cases. No one outside a lunatic
asylum or a seance-room would credit my grandfather with
being afraid to tell the public-anything.
172 WHITE M A G I C
He believed in the public. Its wishes were his law, its
entertainment his life. He was not one of the modern school
of artists who believe that it is clever to keep tongue in
cheek while serving the public who are their paymasters.
He earned his money.
Had he been on his death-bed, and been convinced of
spiritualism, he would have risen and proclaimed the truth
from the housetops. He was inc~pable of deceit ; his whole
life-story shows it.
My father, while less forceful, was equally uncom-
promising. I knew him better, I think, than anyone except
Mother ; and I know that he would have proclaimed him-
self a spiritualist, had he ever been convinced, even had the
announcement rent St. George's Hall in twain. .
It is like the spiritualists, as I have seen them, to put
yet another.bogus statement into the mouth of a dead man.
I know there are sincere people among them, and probably
also sincere mediums. I have no axe to grind against them;
I would be convinced myself if I could be adtnitted to a
seance at which anything happened that I could not
reproduce by conjuring
But they do their case no good by permitting one of
their chiefperiodicals to take advantage of the legal axiom :
"You cannot libel a dead man."
When my father was buried a very strange thing hap-
pened. It was a dull, cool day, one of those days when
Nature seems to drowse.
As the coffin was lowered into the grave, in the family
vault at Wandsworth, there came a single terrific peal of
thunder, and a ghastly flash of lightning seemed to split
the skies and strike like a heavenly scorpion down among
the tombstones at our feet.
There was no thunder or lightning anywhere else in
England that day ; nor was the single flash and roll repeated.
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 173
All the newspapers of the time commented on it as a freak
electrical disturbance.
This happening aroused afresh references to the devil-
legend of the Maskelyne family, which I have mentioned
elsewhere. And the most astonishing thing of all was that
almost every newspaper stated that an exactly similar thing
had happened, on a day as unlike thunder weather as it was
possible to imagine, when another member of the family
was buried.
I was very much upset at my father's death, and at
having to give my show that night in the theatre and listen
to the applause while his dead body lay under the same roof.
Perhaps because I was the only member of the family to
assist him at St. George's Hall, or possibly through that
intimacy which often exists between the head of a house
and its younger child, he and I had always wonderfully
understood one another, and had been comrades and friends
in the deepest sense.
I slept very restlessly for some weeks after. This spell of
insomnia was ended in a strange manner. I had tumbled
myself into a sort of doze one night, when I thought that
I awoke and went down in my pyjamas from the flat I used
in the theatre buildingto the empty and deserted auditorium
of St. George's Hall.
It was pitch dark there, but some sort of performance
seemed to be going on, and the stage, though all the lights
were down, had a strange luminosity which showed me
figures moving about on it. I thought at first that this eerie
play was being presented without any audience to view it ;
but quite suddenly I realized my mistake.
The place was crowded ; far more crowded than any
human audience could have packed it. It seemed to contain
millions and millions of presences-a host made possible
only by some fourth-dimension miracle. As I walked
174 WHITE MAGIC
down towards the front stalls I was hemmed in and
crowded....
Then I saw tny grandfather sitting in one of the stalls,
and my father, and an empty seat was reserved for me
between them. They were both in full evening dress, and
both looked well and happy ; indeed, they were laughing at
some joke between themselves.
I sat between them and watched the performance on
the stage. It was some sort of a magic play, but it seemed
more real than make-believe. Witches were dancing an
obscene measure round a great steaming cauldron, their elf-
locks flying, their red eyes gleaming like malevolent rubies.
In the steam that rose from the boiling pot I saw strange
faces appear-monsters ofnightmare shape, headless babies,
great bats, and once the head and shoulders of a girl of
absolutely unearthly, evil beauty.
The face of this girl awoke me, and I found that I was
still in my bed, sweating with fear and excitement. The
ruling passion is strong, and beside my bed lay a big diary,
always kept there to record ideas that come to me when I
am sleepless. I made a few notes of my vision, and then
turned over and went to sleep.
Next night I dreamed exactly the same thing ; but the
dream lasted longer. While I was watching thefigures appear
in the smoke, my grandfather leaned over to me.
"I'll just tell you how that's done," he whispered.
And then he and my father between them explained to
me how to produce an identical illusion.
I woke up again as the last words were being spoken,
and there was my note-book ready at my side. In it I
entered the details of the illusion ; and the very next
morning-indeed, I was almost too impatient to wait for
daylight-! settoworkconstructingtheapparatus necessary.
When it was ready, I tri~d it out; and it produced by
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 175
far the most life-like effects of this sort that I have ever
seen-or should I say witch-like ?
It has ever since been my ambition to produce these
effects for the Witches' Scene in Macbeth. I was asked to do
so on one occasion by a leading producer, but he and I did
not see eye to eye about the question of my secret methods.
That is to say, I wanted to keep them a secret, while the
producer felt that, as producer, he ought to "see the works".
So I withdrew; but I still hope to gratify my ambition
one day, and I believe the effect will create something of a
sensation when it first appears on the stage.
After my father's death in 1926, I was left with all the
real responsibility of St. George's Hall on my shoulders.
I was the only one ofmy gene~ation who had beenappearing
there regularly, and I had a pretty good idea both of what
our public wanted and how to give it to them.
But I was only twenty-four years of age-probably the
youngest theatre-manager in London. I had not had enough
experience to make me sure of myself in my new role ; and
though I later became Managing Director, it was with very
considerable qualms.
Presenting magic'is one thing ; controlling the destinies
of a place with such a tradition as that of St. George's Hall
is another.
I combed the world for talent ; I sought out artistes and
illusions in the most unlikely places. I worked about twenty
hours aday,in theworkshops making apparatus, on the stage
rehearsing,oractuallygivingorsuperintendingperformances.
I think I did pretty well. We kept receipts up to about
normal levels, and kept expenses down to a reasonable
figure. We carried on. I think that J. N. himself, in my
position, could have tried no harder, though perhaps he
might have done more. But then-though I repeat myself-
). N. was a genius.
CHAPTER XIV
Western magic before an Indian Maharajah-"The Dizzy Limit"-
Indian Rope Trick theories-Sword-walking-Two sensations
at St. George's Hall-Tricking the C.I.D.-Secrets of my magic.
IN the early months of 1926 I was invited to give a per-
formance of ·magic before one of the most critical judges
who has ever seen me perform. This was no less a person
than the Maharajah of Jodhpur.
Ruler ofan area ofIndia that is almost as big as England,
and descendant of a ruling family that traces its direct
ancestry in an unbroken line for nearly a thousand years
into the past, the Maharajah's Court is one of the most
famous homes of magic in all the East. From a child, he had
seen native jugglers and fakirs perform their miracles for
his amusement; andnowhewantedto watcha representative
of Western magic produce something in competition.
A giant marquee was erected for my specialbenefiton the
lawn of the Maharajah's Wimbledon home, and a fine stage
was built inside it, complete down to the last detail of
lighting and curtaining.
Near the stage was another tent, with a very heavy black
veil down one side of it. Just before my show was due to
begin, the Maharanee ofJodhpur and her sister were carried,
in heavily curtained palanquins, into this small tent, and
thereafter they watched my illusions through tiny eye-holes
in the black curtain.
It was an eerie feeling, I can assure you, making Western
magic under the ever-present spell ofwatching Eastern eyes.
And I had another incentive, if one was needed, to be
"on my toes" that night. This was the first occasion for
176
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S I 77
over fifty years that a member of my family had given a
magic sho\v outside St. George's Hall. What an astounding
departure from the old tradition that first step was to herald I
The Maharajah, his doctor, and a number of dis-
,guished guests sat in the stalls when, at last, the performance
was all ready to begin.
. I produced the very best illusions I could stage, of
course, and two of them interested the Indian potentate
particularly.
In the first of them, my assistant, a girl, came on the
stage clad in a check wrapper. She climbed into a strong
hammock that was swung about eight feet away from the
sides and back-cloth of the stage, and about five feet up
from the boards. I had formerly held up the hammock so
that the audience could see that it was transparent, and that
there was no trickery about it.
The girl sat up in the hammock, adjusted her hair, and
called to the audience, to show that she was real, and that
she was actually in the hammock-in fact, that her presence
there was no mere mirror illusion.
Then I fired a revolver at her, the hammock collapsed,
the check wrapper floated down to the floor-and the girl
·vanished, though her scream was heard simultaneously with
the report of my pistol.
This trick is called "The Dizzy Limit", and is a speciality
of my own. It can be very effective indeed when well
performed.
The other trick that took the laurels that evening needed
a stone sarcophagus for its performance. This ancient coffin
was wheeled on to the stage and examined by a committee
from the audience. It was then lifted on to trestles to clear
it of the stage and allow free space beneath it, to exclude
the chance of a trap-door there.
The sarcophagus had holes in the sides, and \vas just
WHITE MAGIC
large enough to contain my assistant, who climbed into it
and lay down. The lid was fitted on, and the whole roped
and sealed. My assistant then called to us from inside the
coffin ; and indeed she could clearly be seen in there,
through the holes, during the whole of the illusion.
Then I handed down to the Maharajah a bundle of
spears, swords and long knives, of native Indian workman-
ship. These he tested in every way possible, to see whether
the blades telescoped into the handles, or whether they
were faked in any other way. He was, of course, an expert
on Indian weapons, and he passed these as being absolutely
genuine, sharp and dangerous.
I then took back the knives, swords and spears, and thrust
them through the coffin, in at one side and out at the other ;
and as each passed through, my assistant within gave a
realistic shriek, the cries getting fainter as more and more
weapons passed apparently through her body ; for there
was obviously no room for her to avoid them in the narrow
confines of the coffin.
When the sarcophagus was a veritable hedgehog of
bristling weapons, these were withdrawn and the com-
mittee from the audience broke the seals and cut the ropes
about the coffin. I then raised the lid, and my assistant rose
from within, as fresh and undamaged as when she had
entered.
I heard a gasp from behind the black curtain at that, and
was reminded of the Maharanee who sat there.
"I'll bet you fifty pounds you wouldn't get into that
coffin and let him do it to you," the Indian ruler challenged
his native doctor, who was sitting next him.
"My price is five millions, sir," was the instant reply.
There was some laughter, but the challenge was not
eventually accepted, though the doctor later assisted me
very ably in some disappearing-card tricks I wanted to
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 179
perform. He would have been quite safe in earning his
fifty pounds by lying in the coffin, too, hadhe only knownit l
"You made the girl disappear miraculously-in fact,
more marvellously than I have seen even a fakir make
anything vanish before," said the Maharajah to me after
the performance, when we were chatting on magic. "Can
you do the Indian Rope Trick for me ?"
But here I had to admit that I was beaten. Neither I
nor-as I firmly believe-anyone else in the world can do
this trick to conform with the old legend, which I have
described fully in Chapter VITI of this book.
I asked my questioner whether he himselfhad ever seen
this trick performed in India or elsewhere.
"No," was the answer. "I have never seen it, though
I have searched my dominions for a man who can produce
it for me. I am certain it has never been done in the original
form of the Indian legend."
Well, there you are l I think that is proof enough that
the thing is an impossibility. Yet, on the stage, I believe
that we shall one day see the Rope Trick illusion perfectly
presented, and I expect to be the man who presents it. You
will readily appreciate that doing it on the stage, where
apparatus and black velvet together can work many seeming
miracles, is quite a different matter from effecting the same
illusion in the open air, away from draperies and unassisted
by mechanics.
I have my plans perfected now to give a big Indian
Rope Trick show, as soon as I can find a suitable theatre
and an opportunity to rehearse the illusion thoroughly. I
shall never give this trick in the provinces, for an obvious
reason. There ~tage-hands and others who necessarily see
something of the works of a big new illusion are always
subject to bribery and persuasion from rival magicians who
wish to learn the secret of a new trick.
M
ISO WHITE MAGIC
I have lost some exclusive magic that way already, and
I do not propose to risk what will, I believe, eventually be
one of the biggest "scoops" of my career.
Mter the performance before the Maharajah ofJodhpur,
I repeated in the Press my challenge that I would pay a
huge fee, and a very large weekly salary, to anyone who
would produce the Indian Rope Trick for me in the open,
according to the terms of the legend.
This challenge brought me a curious response. One
evening as I was returning about midnight to my home,
after a visit to some friends, I found a wizened little figure
crouched in a blanket on my doorstep. So small was it that
I thought it was a child; but it proved to be a little old
Indian.
I took him indoors, and he told me he had seen my
challenge, and, though he could not perform the trick I .
wanted, he had other Eastern illusions in his repertoire that
might interest me. He said, incidentally, that he had actually
seen the Rope Trick performed in a temple devoted to the
worship of Kali, in Eastern Bengal. His explanation was
that the fakir who produced it was a master of hypnotism,
and that he hypnotized the whole of the congregation
present, who had previously been got into a sympathetic
state by the swinging censers that spread heavy opium
fumes through the temple, and also clouded the atmosphere
to a foggy density.
More interesting still, he told me that he had seen a
photograph obtained by a Bengali merchant, actually taken
during a performance of the Rope Trick. The photograph
sho\ved the fakir sitting on the ground in the midst of a
circle of onlookers. Of rope or boy there was no sign ; yet
the merchant swore that he had taken the picture at the
moment that the boy was climbing the rope. The idea was
that the fakir had simply willed the audience to see things
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 181
that did not exist-to imagine the trick, in fact. Yet I fail
to see how one man could hypnotize a multitude, unless
possibly they were prepared, with drugs and religious
exaltation, as in the affair described at Kali's temple.
My Indian friend wished to obtain an engagement from
me to appear under our banner at St. George's Hall. He
had a good repertoire of tricks, but we were at that time
fully staffed, and as he had nothing novel to offer, the best
I could do for hirn was to get him a job in a provincial
theatre, where I believe he was a great success.
One of his best tricks was "sword-walking". This, and
sword-swallowing, since they are not illusions, but are
actually performed in all reality, have always struck me as
being more marvellous than most of the things that mere
conjuring can show.
The sword-walker has a ladder of swords built into a
rigid framework, usually about ten feet high, and with a
board platform at the top. The swords form the steps of the
ladder, and they are placed edge-up. A flag or some similar
object is placed on the platform, and the sword-walker goes
barefoot up the ladder of weapons, resting his full weight
on his naked soles when these are supported only by
sword-edges ; yet he is not injured.
A committee from the audience is allowed to examine
the ladder beforehand and test the edges of the swords \vith
paper or with the hand ; in fact, such committees not
infrequently cut their hands by pressing too hard on the
edges of the weapons.
The secret is really very simple. The performer first
bathes his feet in a very strong alum solution, to which
zinc sulphate is added. The feet are gently dabbed dry, and
then plunged into ice-cold water, and dabbed dry once
more. They \vill then resist almost any cutting edge.
In 1926 I spent a good deal of time exploring the
182 WHITE MAGIC
possibilities of phantom and levitation tricks. I discovered,
for instance, how to produce a ghost of myself, and talk to
it, and make it hold conversations with me.
This caused somewhat of a sensation on the stage when
I first presented it ; and other phantom illusions did the
same.
The best levitation trick, despite years of patient study
and experiment, continued to be the one invented by my
father, in which a girl walks on to the stage, is apparently
hypnotized by the magician, lies down in a stone coffin, and
then rises from it horizontally, and absolutely without any
means of support, at a word of command from the
"hypnotist".
I was doing this trick one day at St. George's Hall
when a very small girl in the audience-! think she might
have been about five years old-not merely "stole my
thunder", but took the attention of the audience to such an
extent, and this at the very climax of this thrilling trick, that
it was not worth my while to finish it.
My assistant had come on the stage, been apparently
hypnotized, lain down in the coffin, and had risen into the
air from it, a long sash hanging meanwhile from her waist
to the ground. Of course, the audience thought that the
sash concealed a pillar or some such apparatus to raise her,
and I obtained a little extra effect by twitching the sash
away while she lay suspended about five feet from the stage,
and showing that nothing had been hidden beneath it.
Then I advanced towards her motionless sleeping figure
with a big steel hoop in my hand. This hoop had previously
been examined by the audience, and passed as an unbroken
ring of steel. My idea was to pass the steel hoop round the
body of my levitated assistant, and move it along from her
feet to her head, to show the audience that she was definitely
not supported in any way whatever.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 183
As I did this, in order to increase the effect, the orchestra,
which had been playing mysterious Eastern music, suddenly
stopped, leaving a period of ~bsolute silence in which I was
to develop the climax of my illusion.
I began to pass the hoop along, slowly and effectively.
Then the silence, which felt almost a solid thing after the
previous music, was cut as if by a knife.
"Mummy 1" wailed ,an innocent childish voice, dis-
tinctly audible all over the theatre. "Mummy 1I callt wait
any longer. I can't really 1I really do want to go this time 1"
I am sorry to say that my assistant, despite the fact that
she was suspended in mid-air in an hypnotic trance, giggled
audibly. But it did not matter; indeed, I am afraid I laughed
myself.
Any sounds from the stage were drowned in a roll of
laughter that ran all over the theatre, from the floor to the
roof. My illusion was forgotten ; in fact, we finished it off
as swiftly as possible and brought down the curtain, while
the orchestra, at a nod from me, crashed into a triumphal
march, to the strains ofwhich the little girl and her mummy
"went" like warriors walking to receive their laurels 1
A night or two after this affair, again while we had a
show in full swing but at a time when I was not actually on
the stage myself, the head fly-man came rushing to me where
I stood in the wings.
"My God, Mr. Jasper I" he gasped. "Your grandfather's
standing up in the flies there 1"
It was a startling announcement, naturally, since my
grandfather had been dead nearly ten years. Yet the man's
white face showed that he had received some sort of shock.
I asked him to take me up to the place where he had seen
the figure, but he point-blank refused to do so.
With a·performance going on and myself due on the
stage in about five minutes, I was in no mood to stand for
WHITE MAGiC
too much imagination. Besides, I needed the man up there,
to see to the curtain changes during the rest of the
performance.
"Come on upstairs and show me what you saw, or else
go and get your pay and clear out for good!" I snapped at
him. "You needn't go too near whatever it is you saw. I'll
do that. Just point.out the place to me, that's all. Anyway,
my grandfather never did anyone any harm."
The man was an old hand who had known J. N., and,
like all his servants, worshipped the very ground he trod on.
He muttered something, and ran ahead of me up the ladders
into the flies, forty feet or so above the stage.
"There!" he quivered, pointing a shaking finger.
I got the shock of my life. We were standing directly
above the footlights. The fly-rails ran round the outside of
the dome, above the sides of the stage and round at the
back. Standing at the point opposite us, against the back
wall of the theatre, about forty feet above the stage, his
arm on the fly-rail, and apparently intently watching the
unconscious actors on the boards far below, was the figure
of a man in full evening dress- undoubtedly the figure of
my grandfather I Through the forest of ropes that inter-
vened, I could see his characteristic pose and his absorbed
face.
"Wait here and tell me-signal to me ifyour voice might
be heard in the theatre-when I get near the place where he
is standing," I muttered. "I'm positive the thing's .some
sort of optical illusion."
I walked swiftly round the fly-rails to the spot where I
had seen the figure standing, ]?ut there was nothing there.
The fly-man gestured me to one side, and I took a couple of
paces thatway. Thenhenodded,and his amazed and shocked
face told its own story.
I went back to him and asked him what he had seen.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 185
Without speaking, he jabbed a thumb towards the place I
had just left. Standing there, still intently watching the stage,
was the figure in evening dress.
"You-you \valked-right through him, Mr. Jasper!"
the flyman whispered.
Now here is a strange thing. That figure appeared there
always at the moment the house-lights were turned up
preceding a performance on the stage below. It stayed tilJ
the end of the performance ; when the lights went out, it
vanished.
It was pretty obviously some extraordinary illusion-far
more amazing than anything we did on the stage-caused
by the lights shining through the network of ropes up there
in the flies.
If one \V~nt round to the spot where the figure stood,
nothing was visible. Yet a watcher stationed over the foot-
lights could still see the brooding figure, and from that
position it looked as if any investigator, passing round the
back of the fly-rails, walked straight through the phantom
as it leaned there staring down at the stage.
That curious impression remained in its place, quietly
watching right through every performance, until Maske-
lyne's Theatre \Vas sold to the B.B.C. Then they did all sorts
of alterations and improvements, and apparently the par-
ticular combination of lighting and shadow was spoiled.
I was broadcasting from St. George's Hall some months
ago, and I went up into the flies to see if the ghostly figure
of J. N. Maskelyne still kept his quiet ward. But he was
gone.
Perhaps it was just as \veil, for none of the fly-men cared
to go up along the back of the fly-rails after our discovery,
and for the matter of that few of the artistes would do so
either.
Throughout my first year as the controlling force on the
x86 WHI'I'E MAGIC
stage at St. George's Hall, after my father's death, I was
constantly getting into awkward little situations and having
to extricate myself, and generally finding out all the snags
of managing a magic show.
I rememberaparticularlyawkward momentthatoccurred
one evening when I was giving an extra-special performance
(they always do occur then 1) before some C.I.D. inspectors,
who had been sent tickets in acknowledgment of a little
mystery they had cleared up in connection with some cash
of ours which was doing the vanishing-trick nightly from
the theatre takings.
Now, of all onlookers, I dread detectives most. Their
training leads them to logical speculation on the way my
tricks are done ; they reject the obvious impossibilities
which the magician flaunts as red herrings before the
general audience, and are very apt to puzzle out the works
of a trick if they are given the slightest clue.
You can judge my exasperation, therefore, when, in one
of the big illusions that evening, I failed to get the cue
which should have told me that my girl assistanthad success-
fully secreted herself inside a complicated bit of apparatus
off-stage, ready for the climax of my trick.
I made up some lines and waited for the cue, but it did
not come. We had practised that trick for six months ; in
the event, it ran only four weeks, and was then withdrawn ;
but at the time I did not suppose that anything could
possibly have gone wrong with it.
Finally, finding that my cue still did not come, I made
an excuse to move near the side-curtains where I saw the
girl standing beside the app~ratus, looking frightened.
"Why aren't you inside ?" I asked, out of the corner of
my mouth, while still keeping my face to the audience and
apparently busying myself with the preparation of some
other material on the stage.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S I 87
"I've forgotten how," she answered tearfully.
I murmured some key directions, and next moment she
was inside, I got my cue,and thetrick proceeded smoothly to
its conclusion.
Mter the show I asked the detectives ifthey had spotted
the "works" of any of my tricks. But, thank goodness,
they were as mystified as all the rest ofthe audience, and that
is saying a good dealt
I have often been asked whether my apparatus on the
stage costs me very much to construct. Well, some of it
does, of course. I have one apparatus that cost me over
£3 5o to build and patent, and yet the trick it performs only
takes four minutes on the stage. But it is a good trick.
For three years I was the only performer of this trick
in the world. Then I heard that a certain famous contem-
porary, an American who was then visiting England, had
reproduced it, or even improved upon it a little. I went to
see one of his shows.
Yes, he had produced my trick, and obtained justas good
an effect as I did. But instead of spending £3 5o on his
apparatus, he achieved the same effect by employing three
men, placed at different angles, to pull simultaneously on
little bits of string.
We live and learn 1
For a good number of my most spectacular illusions I
use-not complicated electric apparatus, as everyone sup-
poses-but the good old gramophone motor. I have some
hundreds of these motors in my workshops.
They have amazing strength ; they never break down ;
and they are silent.
Black velvet, and to a lesser degree mirrors, play a very
important part in the stagingofsomeofmybiggest illusions.
Long before the art of camouflage by colours sprang into
prominence during the Great War, we magicians had
188 WHITE MAGIC
exploited it to a degree that would fill a layman with
wonder.
Cobbler's wax, little steel springs and clips, and a pro-
found knowledge of the more out-of-the-way tricks that
the force of gravity can be persuaded to perform, are
further items in a modern magician's box of tricks.
But most of all it is blarney-the fine art of making the
onlooker think the wrong thing, hear the wrong thing and
see the wrong thing. I wonder, now, just why there are
no world-famous Irish illusionists ?
CHAPTER XV
Dispatch-riding in the General Strike-Attacked by my colleagues-
Midsummer marriage-Nearly drowned in Beer-Children on
the stage-A magic competition at "Maskelynes"-Magicians
in trouble.
NINETEEN HUNDRED AND 'I'WEN'I'Y-SIX seems to have been
an eventful year for me 1 Not the least of my adventures
\vere concerned with the General Strike.
Like, I suppose, the greater part ofthe rest ofEngland's
population, I was not very greatly perturbed by events
during the first couple of days of the strike. I was rather
amused at the amazing variety of vehicles one saw in the
streets ; old crock cars, ponies and traps, push-bikes,
equestrians' gee-gees, and once even a penny-farthing
bicycle that I saw swiftly ridden down Langham Place into
Regent Street.
But for me it was "business as usual" ; audiences were
smaller, but what they lacked in numbers they made up in
enthusiasm.
On the third day of the stoppage, however, I was told
by an eye-witness how a tram-driver had been murdered by
his own mates. The man had been pulled from his tram, on
which he was working in spite of Union orders, and his
head kicked in, accidentally or deliberately. While being
hauled from his platform by brutal, willing hands, the man
screamed for mercy, shouting that he had been forced to
work because he could not otherwise find food for his wife
and children. The tram was rolled over on its side and
burned, and my informant, who had been a passenger, es-
caped with nothing more dangerous than abuse and jostling.
189
WHITE MAGIC
Something in that story made me see red. If that was
the spirit of the strikers, then I for one would throw myself
into the struggle to break their power.
By a bit of luck, we happened just previously to have
given some passes to a special show at the Hall to some
C.I.D. men, and one of these was able to get me a job as
motor-cycle dispatch rider attached to Walham Green
Police Station. This promised excitement, and I got it,
though hardly of the type I had expected.
They gave me a very old, very crotchety motor-bike,
which I learned was popularly called Jezebel-for obvious
reasons. They also gave me a straw paliasse in the corner
ofa garage as sleeping accommodation, for my job necessi-
tated that I should be available for duty twenty-four hours
out of the twenty-four.
Most days I was given a hundred or so letters, in plain
envelopes, and told to deliver them to a list of addresses
that was rendered to me separately. The envelopes were
identified only by numbers marked on them. They bore no
addresses, and their contents were as often as not in code, in
case they fell into the hands of strikers, I suppose.
I delivered them, according to instructions, at the most
queer assortment of addresses. Some went to Scotland
Yard ; some went to other police-stations, and to the
temporary police headquarters such as Hyde Park. But a
good many were for obscure addresses ranging from Putney
back-streets and Tottenham pubs to Belgrave Square
mansions and Thames Ditton bungalows.
I have always wondered what was the secret behind the
immense network of communications that the police and
detective services kept up during the strike. Were they
obtaining information? Were they laying plans in case the
strike developed into civil war ?
I cannot tell. But obviously thete was something pretty
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 191
big in the way of organization going on, and only the con-
trolling brains knewenoughaboutit to beable to co-ordinate
the whole into a logical plan of campaign.
As for me, I was just one ofthe units whose lot was "not
to reason why". Often I used to bestrideJezebelatmidnight,
stutter and roar up to some address, steering by my mount's
inadequate and blinking lights, deliver a letter, ride off to a
place ten miles distant and deliver another, and then find
that a third should have been handed in only a few hundred
yards from the place where I had left the first. I was never
given any guide as to districts, and, of course, street-names
in unknown neighbourhoods conveyed very little to me.
Anyway, we muddled through I
Once my journeyings took me along the Kingston
By-Pass Road. I was warned by the detectives at Walham
Green that there was trouble in that direction, so I strapped
on to my belt, outside my jacket, a huge service revolver of
my brother's. I had no ammunition for it, and no licence
either, for that matter, but it looked really good stuffI
Incidentally, I had no uniform, unless you can call an
official armlet a uniform, and my police weapons were
comprised solely of a stout truncheon, which I was for-
bidden by my superiors, almost on pain of death, ever to
draw or even to display.
Near Kingston I found the road blocked by a crowd of
excited men, who were in the act of burning a big black
saloon car, the owner of which stood by in the grip of a
couple of roughs. I rode up to them, pulled Jezebel up on
her haunches-to which indignity she replied with a
deafening squeal of brakes-and told the men to let their
prisoner go.
They took one look at my artillery, and complied.
The gentleman then jumped on my pillion and we roared
away before the main body of the destroyers quite knew
19.%. WHITE MAGIC
what had happened. For a couple of miles I could hear the
man behind me saying to himself : "Why couldn't they have
left me Dolly's letters l I don't care about the car, but why
couldn't they have left me q1y letters !"
I have no idea whether Dolly was his wife or sweetheart
or daughter, but the car was in the thousand-pound class,
by the look of it. When I set him down and said good-bye,
he was so absorbed in his lost letters that he almost forgot
to thank me for the lift.
I returned by the same road an hour later, and the car
was a gutted, twisted ruin.
About three days before the strike ended I was sent
with an urgent message from Walham Green to Scotland
Yard, in the early hours of the morning. I was thundering
along as usual at about fifty miles an hour, for Jezebel was
a fast hussy when she was not mulish, and the empty streets
exhilarated me so much that I was sing~ng at the top of my
voice as I rode.
Near Victoria Station I was going over a cross-roads
when, without warning, a big Daimler shot out of a side-
turning, loomed gigantic over me, and crashed me broad-
side on across its radiator. It executed a skid like an outsize
ballet-girl, I went flying, and hit a street-island with my hip.
The island preserved a stolid demeanour, Jezebel bounced
off and roared her tale of woe to the night skies, and the
nextthingI knewwas thata number ofmen were solicitously
bending over me and asking each other if I was dead. I soon
convinced them about that 1
What annoyed me most was that I had been knocked
flying by a car-load of detectives 1Why they were in such a
hurry I have no idea ; but it did seem hard to be knocked
out by one's own colleagues after braving the worst terror~
of the strikers.
Not that the strikers were :really very terrible. Indeed,
1' HE S 1' 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 193
\vhenever I lost myself delivering dispatches, as I did half
a dozen times a day, I had to depend on them entirely to
find myself for me. And on one occasion a kindly group
picketing a factory gave me scalding black tea and bread
and cheese because they said I looked cold.
After my accident I ceased working for the mechanized
section of our detective organization, largely because
Jezebel had deposited a good portion of her entrails on the
pavement near Victoria. Whether, as in the case of her
famous predecessor of the same name, the dogs ate them,
I cannot say, but doubt it because my Jezebel was so very
old and tough.
As a ne\v interest, I supervised for a short time the
formation of a local branch of mounted Special Constables.
I had suggested this idea on my enrolment, as I was a good
rider myself, but it was postponed, like a great many other
useful proposals, till the strike was over before it was put
into effect.
An even more bitter instance of this sort of thing, to
my fevered imagination, was that, though I had besought
the authorities, both local and headquarters, all through the
strike, for relief dispatch riders, and for something better
than mouldy straw to sleep on, nothing was heard of any
result to my appeals until the day the strike ended.
On that very morning, some proper hair mattresses and
warm blankets arrived, together with a squadron of half a
dozen fresh-faced motor-cyclists who had been told to put
themselves at my disposal.
Think of it I Had I been luckier, I could have reposed
on my mattress all day and issued lordly orders to the under-
lings. As it was, I worked single-handed till there was no
more work to do, and then they insulted me with all I had
previously sought. Who'd be a patriot I
My hip was not permanently damaged by my accident,
194 WHI'I'E MAGIC
but I found that it gave me trouble afterwards at odd
times.
On Midsummer Day, 1926, I was married to Miss
Home-Douglas. According to all authorities, Midsummer
Day is an occasion of great magic, and I certainly had true
magician's luck in the choice of the girl who has ever since
been my greatest inspiration, and to whom any success I
may since have achieved has been mainly due.
We spent our honeymoon at Beer, on the Devon coast.
I was out swimming there, one glorious summer morning,
when my damaged hip, which had been treacherously well-
behaved for the past weeks, suddenly gave way. The pain
was intense, and I sank down through the water, despite
convulsive efforts to keep my head above the surface.
It just shows you how lucky I was to marry on Mid-
summer Day, for my wife was watching me from the shore,
and saw me threshing the water in my struggles. She became
alarmed, and shouted urgendy to an old fisherman who was
out in his boat attending to some crab-pots a hundred yards
to my left.
The old mariner looked up, saw my head disappear,
drove his boat to the spot with a few powerful strokes, and
plunged overside to search for me. It was lucky for me ; I
had ceased to struggle, and was floating about in the cold
green depths in a sort of contented torpor. He dragged me
to the surface, got me into his boat, and took me to the
shore.
I was rather wet inside and out, but no serious damage
had been done. The amazing thing was that, though I made
what very inadequate acknowledgment I could, since the
man had probably saved my life, he was infinitely more
delighted with the little magic show I gave later to amuse
his children and some other youngsters who had gathered
for the occasion.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K ELY N E S 195
Children are undoubtedly the magician's best audience.
They accept him so very whole-heartedly; they have ex-
planations for a good many ofhis tricks (quite wrong ones),
but they still give him full marks if he amuses them. They
are so delightfully free from the blase.
I once had fifty children on the stage with me at once,
at a children's matinee we were giving at St. George's Hall.
I had to "do my stuff" under their eyes, and of course they
are very sharp-eyed when they choose.
One of the small girls-a lady ofperhaps seven or eight
years old-desperately wanted to talk to meabout weddings.
She asked me if I had ever been to a wedding, and was
thrilled to learn that I had recently attended my own. We
talked and talked \Vhile I got on with my illusions, but she
would not be satisfied.
Eventually I had to sit down on the stage with her, the
rest ofthe youngsters squatting round in an admiring circle,
and get this wedding palaver properly settled before I could
finish my tricks.
One of the most exciting experiences I ever had with
children occurred at about this time. We held a nation-
\vide competition at St. George's Hall for young conjurers,
and although no tricks actually new to me \vere given, some
of the presentations of them were quite novel and
exceedingly attractive.
A "Miss Paula" of Hastings, who could not have been
more than thirteen, opened proceedings with a clever trick.
She laid three handkerchiefs loosely on a table ; and on
another table she placed three handkerchiefs knotted end
to end. The tables were about ten feet apart, and both were
under the eyes of the audience the whole time.
At a wave ofthe hand, the knotted handkerchiefs undid
themselves and the others became knotted.
When I add that the audience, which was an "invitation"
N
WHITE MAGIC
one, consisted entirely of famous magicians, most of them
members of the Magic Circle itself, and that they could not
actually see how this trick was performed, though probably
they guessed, it says volumes for the young conjurer.
Lawrence Lewis made billiard balls appear and dis-
appear from between his outspread fingers, and anyone who
has tried tricks with ivories will bear me out that they are
a pretty difficult medium for magic. Thimbles appeared and
vanished from the tips of his fingers at a word of command,
though he did not apparently move his hands or bend the
digits at all.
Robin Hood, a boy of under twelve, materialized a
laurel chaplet for himself out of thin air while bowing to
the applause that greeted his appearance on the stage-a
most appropriate and effective illusion. Then he held up a
playing-card, shook it, and it became a size smaller, and
repeated this trick till the card had diminished to the size of
a finger-nail while never actually disappearing for one
moment from the gaze of the onlookers.
This boy was gifted with exceptional hands, and already
had a good knowledge ofhow to use them, making them do
the entertaining instead of using his voice too much-a
usual fault with beginners.
Since those days, Robin, and his father and mother, have
become three of our dearest friends.
I have to thank magic for introducing me to many such
splendid friends up and down the country.
Robin now has his own little stage fitted up in the
drawing-room at home, with footlights, spotlights, scenery
-in fact, everything possible to help him to present a per-
fect performance. Despite his youth, he is one of the best
magicians I have ever seen, and it is a great shame that
there is really no ·need for him to become a professional.
Magic is simply his hobby.
THE S 'r 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 197
I have spent many hours with him, trying out new big
illusions on a small scale. I have also made him apparatus
for a good number of tricks that I myself perform on the
stage.
It is, of course, very often vitally necessary to give new
illusions a trial run in reduced form, since apparatus is often
exceedingly costly to construct, and one wants to polish up
and become perfect first, before building the final copy for
professional use. The fact that I have been able to try ideas
out thus has often saved me a great deal of expense and
resulted in a better trick in the end.
Robin has recently left Eton, having gone a very long
way since I first met him on Maskelynes' stage, but I still
see a great deal of him, and am delighted at his shrewd
comments and suggestions whenever we try out an illusion
together.
Last to take the stage in the St. George's Hall com-
petition was a bare-kneed lad named Richard Barrs. He set
up a blackboard near the footlights so that it was free from
possible trap-doors, assistants and so on, and then com-
manded the words "Good night 1" to appear on it.
In an instant, the chalked words materialized on the
board, in round boyish writing. Then he commanded them
to vanish again, which they promptly did.
He produced a dish of lemons and a pack of cards,
apparently out of thin air. Then he handed down the dish
to the interested professional magicians in the stalls, and
one of them selected a lemon from it. Meanwhile another
member of the audience chose a card at random from the
pack, and returned it to the young illusionist.
The lemon was then cut open before our eyes, and the
selected card was found rolled up in the middle of the
lemon.
This boy, Richard Barrs, won the premier award as a
WHI'I'E MAGIC
juvenile male magician, with Robin Hood second; and
Paula led the girls' side. She received a huge box of magic
apparatus from Hamleys, and Barrs was given a ten-pound
note and Robin a cheque. In addition, the two winners
appeared, by special arrangement, for a single performance
on the St. George's Hall stage on the following Saturday
afternoon, at one of our public shows.
As was perhaps only natural, some of these very
promising amateurs fumbled a trick or two during the
competition, but the show on the whole was a marvellous
success and gave great enjoyment to all us old hands who
looked on.
Even those who made mistakes need not have been
downcast. Real magicians make mistakes, too, sometimes.
I well remember a substitute performer at St. George's
Hall, when I was a small boy, who not only made a slip, but
committed the very much graver crime of not knowing
what to do when he had made it.
An illusion called the Phantom Dancer was being pre-
sented, in which the magician was supposed to waltz round
the stage with a girl assistant who vanished from his arms
as a clock on the stage·struck midnight-rather untruthfully,
I fear!
On the occasion ofwhich I am writing, something went
wrong, the illusionist lost his head instead of the lady, and
started wrestling with her-or so it seemed-in the absurd
hope of forcing the apparatus to work. Boos, hisses, cat-
calls and advice brought the curtain down with a run, not
only on that disastrous performance, but on the magician's
reputation.
On another occasion, a clever disappearing trick was
being carried out with a hen. An obstinate, clucking old
fowl is not an easy "assistant" at the best of times, and
usually this illusion, which consisted of "vanishing" the
1' H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 199
hen from a covered coop on a table, and making her appear
in a hitherto empty coop on a distant table, was a very
popular one.
This time it was more popular than ever before, but
hardly in the-way intended. The conjurer "vanished" his
hen, withdrew the cloth with a flourish from the empty
coop, walked over to the second table, confidently un-
covered the coop there- when lo 1 a fine young cockerel
stretched himself within and crowed lustily.
Hardly had the audience ceased to giggle than the young
man behind the scenes who had been responsible for this
remarkable transformation was on his way to the stage-door
with, in his pocket, a week's salary in lieu of notice.
Last year, a small boy, whose father I knew, asked me
to teach him some minor conjuring tricks with which to
impress his schoolmates on his return to durance after the
holidays.
I showed him some small tricks, and he proved a
remarkably apt pupil. A week later I received a pained
letter from the lad's mother.
It appeared that he had been to church parade with the
family the previous Sunday, and when a solemn sidesman
had come round with the bag, my pupil had created a local
sensation by holding out his penny, making it vanish from
before the very eyes of the onlookers, slowly and dramatic-
ally producing it from the sidesman's beard, and then
placing the coin in the bag. The effect on the youth's small
sister had, I was told, been peculiarly demoralizing.
He had stoutly refused to tell anyone where he had
learned the trick, but my fame as a conjurer and my regret-
table good nature were well known to his parents, and
they drew the cruel conclusion that I had not only taught
him the trick, but suggested the idea for staging it so
notably. Which was, of course, a sheer libel.
2.00 WHITE MAGIC ·
Indeed, it is not all fun being a magician I Not long
ago I was amusing some friends at home by showing them
a trick whereby I filled a glass of water to the brim, put a
sheet of cardboard over it, turned the lot upside down
on the oak dining-table, and withdrew the cardboard,
finally sliding the glass to the edge of the table and
pouring the water into a jug there without spilling a
drop.
This trick, of course, marks the table, but oak is capable
of being well polished so that the blemish can be removed
entirely.
While I was in the middle of this little trick, my small
son came in to say good night, and begged to be allowed
to see me finish my effort before he went to bed. As usual,
I was weak with him and said yes.
One morning later, he came to me in a great state of
excitement.
"Daddy I'~ he announced triumphantly, "I've been doing
your trick with the glass ofwater. I've turned it upsydown,
but now I'm 'fraid to get it off. Willyou come and finish it
for me?"
How, short of an absolute miracle, the child had done
it, I cannot pretend to explain, but he had got as far as
reversing the glass and withdrawing the cardboard, and
only a drop or two of water had escaped.
But the trouble was that he had operated on a little
Queen Anne inlaid walnut table of considerable value ; the
stain,ofcourse, willtakeyears ofpatientpolishing to remove
from the veneer, and will leave a permanent mark on the
inlaid work.
I think that the worst of all my trials as a professional
magician occurred a year or two ago. I was "vanishing"
a lady from a box, before a packed and distinguished
audience. They did not see her go, but I watched the lady
1' H E S 1' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 2.01
disappear safely into the wings, opened the box- and she
was still there 1
I begged the audience to keep their seats, and promised
to do the trick over again. This time there was no mistake ;
I watched the lady go into the wings, waited for my cue,
showing that she was safely out ofthe way, and dramatically
threw up the lid of the box.
There she was, still within 1
And then I woke up 1 It was about time 1I was sweating
as if I had run a fast race ; and I had been gnawing my lip
hard.
For about six months I was hag-ridden by that dream.
I could hardly ever sleep right though a night without it.
It made me uncomfortable and worried lest I should really
do this silly thing on the stage.
One day, in desperation, I did it deliberately at rehearsal,
arranging with my assistant to stay in the box. Everyone
laughed, and I could not help joining in. After that, the
dream never returned.
CHAPTER XVI
"The amateur whitewasher"-Film work-A tragic suicide-Devil-
worship in London-! attend a "Witches' Sabbath"-A com-
mittee member creates a sensation at St. George's Hall-Com-
mittees and magic.
AF'I'ER twelve months accustoming myself to my new work .
as controlling force at St. George's Hall, I managed to get
things running on a routine that I understood and could
adequately control.
I met with many difficulties and made a few mistakes.
But I enjoyed every minute of the work, even though it
made almost superhuman demands on my time.
In order to keep the profits up to a standard level, I had
to do a good many things besides making magic on the
stage. There was the task of superintending the work in the
shops where our apparatus was made ; the arranging and
changing ofprogrammes ; the engagement of new artistes ;
the matter of advertisements ; and even then hundreds of
odd jobs were waiting for me to do them.
For instance, in 1918, I turned decorator on a big scale,
to meet an emergency.
The fact was that St. George's Hall terribly needed
painting. It was thoroughly dirty inside, and in places the
plaster had broken away from walls and ceiling, leaving
hideous rents. The trouble, from our point of view, was
that redecorating at that time was a very expensive job.
We got several estimates from London decorating firms.
The best one asked a price of £181, and proposed to keep
the theatre closed down only three weeks. Nor was this
particularly unreasonable; the job was a big one? for the
~0~
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S "J{ E L Y N E S 2.03
theatre measures fifty-nine feet internally from the floor
to the top of the dome.
But three weeks' loss of business, plus £z8z, meant a
good deal more than we were prepared to spend. At 'a
rather agitated directors' meeting I put forward a counter-
suggestion.
"I'll do it for you I" I announced, with some pride.
"You must be a better magician even than we thought
you I" replied someone rather unkindly.
But I did not propose to do it by magic. On the con-
trary, I had all my plans cut and dried; and, in the end,
I won the rest of the meeting over to my way of thinking.
"I don't see how he can make it any worse than it is
now," laughed one of my critics. "And he may make it
better, with a bit of luck."
I went off straight away and borrowed a 55-foot ladder,
which was carried through the streets to the theatre with
myself proudly marching along in front.
I engaged two volunteer assistants, bought about
fifteen gallons of grey paint, one gallon of gold paint,
three or four dozen brushes of all shapes and sizes, some
overalls, and a very doggish-looking cap. I hired a big
electric spray, laid in several hundred cigarettes, and then
really got going.
Slap-dab, slap-dab, up and down the brickwork,
Slap-dab all day long . . .
as the classic says. And, after it, a lightning change out of
my overalls and cap (which soon became armour-plated
with paint I) into faultless evening dress, and on to the
stage for my two or three performances, after which I fell
asleep from sheer fatigue, only to be up with the lark in
the morning, and away up my long ladder to begin afresh
my slap-dab task!
204 W H I T E M A G I C
We kept the theatre open the whole time ; the job took
us only twelve days instead of the three weeks dubiously
considered sufficient by the professionals ; and the cost
was between £3o and £4o instead of over £z8o.
It makes "man's time" look a pretty big item in
decorating charges, doesn't it ?
We did make a few mistakes, of course, because we
were so very enthusiastic, and the record time we were
making over the job went to our heads. But the place
looked very creditable when we had done.
Nor is this merely the opinion of a proud artist inclined
to consider his own goose a spotless swan. For when I
was in St. George's Hall some months ago, I noticed
with interest that it had not been repainted since I did the
job. There were my mistakes, as large as life, still visible
to my critical eyes ; and, what was more, beautiful grey-
and-gold upholstered seating and appointments had been
fitted throughout the theatre.
Since my work had thus obviously received the austere
approval of those arbiters of elegance, the Uncles and
Aunties of the B.B.C., I think mere words of mine become
superfluous I Ses you, Twins I
It was just after joining the Painters' and Decorators'
Union that I made my first film. It was a rather astounding
effort.
In it I played the part of the detective hero who
discovered a thief among some guests at an hotel. I then
abandoned all the best Scotland Yard and Sherlock Holmes
methods, and, instead, made the robber return the jewels
by frightening him with various terrifying illusions.
The picture was called "Room 19", but it was never
shown. I have still got a complete reel ofit, and I am saving
it up till my boy is twenty-one, when I shall show it at his
birthday party. I think it should prove one ofthe best turns
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 205
of the evening, though perhaps by that time it will seem
to contain more comedy than drama.
My second film, "Kidnapped", was a much better
effort, and had a much more plausible story.
In it a famous magician offers to give £Io,ooo to a
committee, selected from the audience, if he is unable to
perform a certain trick. This consists in sealing and roping
an empty chest, and, when it is opened twenty-four hours
later, producing a girl from it.
Crooks learn of the challenge, get themselves selected
as the committee, and kidnap the girl. The magician
follows, tries to rescue the girl, fails, and is forced at
revolver-point to open the box on the stage.
Aha I The girl is inside after all, her escape having been
effected, by another bit of magic, just in time to allow her
to complete the trick.
The box-trick employed in this film was the old original
box-trick which my grandfather used in his magical
sketch, "Will, the Witch and the Watchman".
This was the very last silent film made in Great Britain.
It was sent to America to be fitted with sound ; and it had
a successful run both as a silent and as a talkie film. Indeed,
quite recently I saw it advertised at a big cinema in the
East End of London.
I found my first experiences of film work very interest-
ing. The job is exacting, and totally different from the sort
ofthing one does on the stage. To the beginner, it is almost
uncanny to have to act without audience, orchestra, effects
or footlights, and without the comfortable atmosphere of
the theatre. A few camera-men and directors, a "set" as
small as can possibly be used, showing perhaps a small
section of a room or the front or back of a car, the dead
silence that was necessary when making a non-talking
picture-these things were disconcerting in the extreme.
WHITE MAGIC
Sometimes, indeed, the yellow-painted faces of the
actors, showing ghastly in the sweep of the arclights, give
quite a good impression of another world altogether.
Nor is magic easy to reproduce for film work. On the
stage the magician blarneys his way to fame. He contrives,
by a word or a gesture, to take the attention ofthe audience
from the things they shouldn't see. You can't do that with
the camera.
It was during the time when I was making my second
film that I received a curious and horrible reminder that
this modern world of talkies and radio and electricity and
aeroplanes has not yet shaken off all the terrors that beset
our superstitious forefathers of primitive times.
One of our magicians at St. George's Hall, a veteran
who had appeared there in my grandfather's day, but had
been working on his own for many years and had later
returned to us, had a breakdown on the stage while he was
performing an illusion before the audience.
It was stated in the newspapers at the time that his
health had given way, and that he was to take a spell of
rest. A fortnight later his suicide "while of unsound mind"
was reported.
Everyone thought that it was a case of overwork and
nervous breakdown. On the contrary, that man was
frightened to death.
I knew the inside story at the time, but I would not
tell it, partly because its publication might have had serious
consequences then, and partly because the dead man had
still one living relative. That lady has since died, and now
there is no one of the family left to grieve, even if they
could identify the principal of my tale. _
When the illusionist failed to perform his trick on the
stage, and then broke down in tears, the curtain came
down, and I interviewed him behl?d the scenes. I was
'r H E S 'r 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 2.07
shocked to see that his hands were shaking, and that the
pupils of his eyes were enormous, so that the whites had
disappeared, giving him a dreadful appearance.
I thought he had been taking drugs, but he ppured out
his whole story, and it was not at all what I had expected.
He said that, some months earlier, he had been intro-
duced to a sect of Devil-worshippers in London. He had
always scoffed at such things, and had supposed that they
were simply a band of highly strung people who dabbled
in ancient magic, and who had persuaded themselves into
believing it of supernatural origin. He joined the sect in
the hope of learning some new tricks to use on the stage.
If ever a man was a martyr to his art, that illusionist
was the one!
Mter a few innocuous ceremonies, at which, neverthe-
less, some tricks were produced that \Vere quite new to the
novice, it was explained to him that he would have to be
"sealed to the Devil" before he could be initiated into the
deeper mysteries. Since he had long ago abandoned the
idea of a personal Devil as a childish superstition, he had
no objection.
He then attended a Witches' Sabbath at which, according
to his account, filthy blasphemies took place which cannot
be described in a decent book. He had wanted to escape,
but some power greater than his own simply prevented his
feet from moving.
In the end, in a climax of abomination at which he
drank warm blood and permitted one of his veins to be
opened, he was "sealed to the Devil".
He said that the Satanists had explained to him that he
would now become swiftly rich and powerful, so long as
he sustained his allegiance to his evil Master, and so long
as he never uttered a word to any outsider about the
Devil-worship and its devotees. He had been warned,
208 WHITE MAGIC
however, that the breaking of either commandment would
mean his own death.
At this point in his story he whimpered that he wanted
to commit suicide, but was terrified of what would happen
to his soul afterwards. He also said that he had been
dabbling on the Stock Exchange, though he had no
knowledge whatever of markets, and that he had become
rich through amazing rises in stock he had bought. This
he attributed to occult influence, but a more mundane
explanation was that he had acted on the advice ofa certain
very famous banker who was a member of the evil circle.
Naturally enough, I thought that the whole story was
simply the phantasm of a fevered mind. I told the magician
that he must have a spell of absolute rest, and asked him
if he would go abroad for a few weeks, at the theatre's
expense.
But the man was full of his Diabolism story. He said
he had to attend another Witches' Sabbath at the house of
a woman society leader in Mayfair in a week's time, and
that it was more than his life was worth to be absent from
it. However, he promised to try to get leave of absence,
and to go abroad if he succeeded in doing so.
On the morning after this Satanist meeting I called at
my unhappy friend's address in Camden Town and went
up to_his rooms.
I tapped on the door, but received no reply; so, as I
had often been there before, I walked in, meaning to wait
for him. I got a shock.
The man himself lay taut and outstretched on the floor,
his eyes wide open, his face paper-white, looking as if
he were in a cataleptic fit.
I ran to him, loosened his collar, and splashed cold
water from the bathroom onto his face. Suddenly he sat up
stifHy, but for some minutes he could not speak.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 209
Then he stammered out an incredible story. He said he
had attended the meeting in Mayfair, and that several
people of national reputation had been there, including
the banker, a famous film actress and two leading financiers.
Behind closed doors they had repeated the Lord's
Prayer backwards, cut the throats of some doves and
dabbled in the blood, repeated Arabic charms and chants,
and committed all sorts of abominations. Finally, at some
spell more potent than the rest, the figure of a little black
man in a black silk cloak had suddenly appeared among
them. He emitted a stench like a decaying corpse ; and he
touched each worshipper in turn.
When he touched my magician friend, the latter lost
consciousness. When he recovered I was bending over him
in his own flat.
The man was so obviously very ill that I simply forced
him to accompany me to my own doctor, whom I privately
asked to examine him for signs of narcotics, and to warn
him that he must get right away from London for a rest
and change.
"Well," said the doctor later, while the patient was in
another room getting his things on again, "I warned him
for you, Jasper. But what's the man been doing? There's
no trace whatever of drugs or alcohol ; he's had some
ghastly shock. I've told him straight out that unless he
goes into a nursing-home at once I won't be responsible
for him. He's sane enough, but something's gone pretty
badly wrong with him."
When the illusionist rejoined us, the doctor and I both
tried all we knew to persuade him to go straight into a
nursing-home. This he flatly refused to do until a week
later. Nothing we could say would make him change
his mind.
Later, in a taxi, he told me his reasons.
2.10 WHITE MAGIC
"There is just one more meeting that I must attend,"
he stammered. "We're meeting at a house on Barnes
Common next Friday night. After that, J:'ll go abroad if
you like. He has said I shall be released after this meeting."
The poor fellow was in no fit state to attend any more
of these infernal seances. I could not persuade him to stay
away, but in the end, after cruel badgering, I forced the
address of the meeting-place out of him, and decided to
attend it myself, to try to protect him.
, I \vent over the ground beforehand, and on the Friday
night, as soon as it was dark, I slipped swiftly over a
fence into the grounds ofa big house on the edge of Barnes
Common. I made my way to the side of a large double
garage, where the ceremony was to take place, and hid in
a clump of laurels against the wall.
Then, with great care, and using a hammer padded with
cloth, I drove a nail through the cement between the
bricks, and withdrew it, thus giving myself a peephole
which commanded a restricted view of the interior.
Just before midnight a party of a dozen men and
women came furtively into the garage and locked the doors.
One lighted some black candles at the far end.
In -the faint illumination, I got my first view of the
place. A black-marble block stood at the end ofthe interior.
It was draped with black curtains, beautifully worked with
embroidery showing various beastly manifestations of the
Devil, and the designs were such that, in their uncanny
power, they suggested the work of a mad artist.
On the walls nearby were paintings of an abominable
nature showing men, wome.g and children in the grasp of
a horrible little deformed black man in a black suit.
The first thing I ascertained, after a lot oftwisting about
to get a view, was that my friend was not among the
worshippers, for which I was heartily thankful.
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 2.11
They were all clad in white cloaks with black crosses
on them. One, who seemed to be the leader, went up to
the marble block and fished out from behind it a pig's-head
mask, which he put on.
Then they all joined in a sort of hushed chorus in a
language I could not understand. The masked man repeated
responses, and uttered charms, and danced about. Presently
he began foaming at the mouth. Then he dragged up from
behind the marble altar a black cockerel, \vhich screeched
for a moment, till he cut short its protest by slashing open
its throat.
At this point all the worshippers flung off their cloaks,
stepping forward naked, and licking at the blood from the
still-flapping bird.
I had seen more than enough. As my friend was not
there my mission was abortive. I returned home, which
I reached about two in the morning, and went to bed,
fully determining that I would visit my friend first thing
next-or rather that- day, and bully him into entering a
good nursing-home, or taking a continental holiday. I
thought my task would be easier because he had not
attended the Devil's Mass at Barnes, since his absenting
himselfshowed that he still possessed a remnant.ofcourage.
I had an early breakfast, meaning to go round to Camden
Town immediately I had finished. But while I was eating
my bacon I read in my newspaper that my friend had been
found, in the small hours of that morning, in his lodging,
dead, with a gas-tube in his mouth.
That is the story of my only experience of Black Magic.
I wanted to go to the police, but what sort of a story
had I? I should have been told to go and sleep it off. The
suicide was recorded in the usual kindly \vay, as having
taken place while the victim was unsound of mind. I
wonder I
0
.ZI.Z WHITE MAGIC
There is nothing much to add to the story, except a
plea, from the very bottom of my soul, to all who ever
feel tempted to dabble with Black Magic, to abstain from
touching it. I profess to scoffat it myself; I do not believe
that the Devil can be raised by human agency.
But this I know from my own experience. That minds
can be unhinged and misery untold let loose by playing
with the fire of Diabolism. I have talked this story over
since with the doctor who examined my poor friend so
shortly before his death, and he tells me that our asylums
and prisons are fed every year with a shocking number of
persons who have dabbled in Satanism and ended in
madness or worse.
Not long ago a very famous detective, the last man in
the world to let his imagination run riot, stated in print
that Devil-worship was responsible for a large proportion
of the crimes against very small children that take place
annually. Certainly, any old book on the subject will con-
fum that child-murder is a vital tenet of the filthy creed.
-, Leave it alone I To all those who value their reason I say
again-leave it alone I
The trick which the illusionist was performing when
he collapsed, and so began my connection with this Satan-
ism affair, was one which I have often given myself. It is
rather a good trick, and I once had a spontaneous and
unintended suggestion for improving it.
A plate-glass case is wheeled on to the stage. The case
is steel-bound, with a glass lid, kept down by four padlocks.
It moves on castors and is raised by a framework nine
inches clear of the stage, so that the audience can see
beneath it. -
A committee is invited up on to the stage to examine
the glass case and pass it as empty and trick-proof. Then
they padlock the lid down and keep the keys. At this point
THE S'I'ORY OF MASKELYNES 2.13
I throw a cloth over the case, turn it completely round
once on its castors to show the audience that the back is
as solid as the front (though the committee who stand
round all the time can. see for themselves) pull the cloth
off-and lo ! there is a girl inside 1
At a matinee performance in 192.9 I was about to perform
this trick, and invited the committee as usual from the
audience. Those know-ails \vho explain that these com-
mittees are always stage-hands in disguise will perhaps be
shocked to learn that one member of this particular
committee was more than a little inebriated when he
stepped on to the stage. He even had the mouth of a
substantial silver flask sticking out ofhis pocket at the time.
However, a magician can't start objecting to his
committee, because then it would seem as if they were not
expected to include genuine members of the audience. So
I gave him a key, the box was examined, and the padlock
fastened.
"I tell you what 1" exclaimed my shaky friend at this
point, in a vpice of sepulchral solemnity. "I tell you all
what. What 1Thash not glash. Ish no more a glash cashe'n
I am. Get me, Steve ?"
The audience, to put it candidly, \Vere delighted.
When the committee-man advanced swiftly on the case
and drew his flask from his pocket, they were more
delighted still. It was only when he struck the case a
tremendous wallop on the front, smashing the whole
front panel into smithereens, that the general opinion
seemed to be that he was going just a bit too far.
Well, ofcourse, one had to do something. So I borrowed
an early edition ofan evening paper, that another committee-
man was carying, and pasted it over the broken front of
the case. Then I explained that, since the newspaper was
there, I should not need a cloth.
2.14 W HI 'r E M A G I C
I simply uttered the magic word "Abracadabra l" and
a loud shout from the committee announced that the girl
had materialized in that instant inside the damaged case.
Incidentally, she cut her wrist on a bit of fallen glass inside
there; but that I did not discover till afterwards, when she
declared that it was all in the day's work.
Of course, the trick was a huge success, and we even
had a discussion behind the scenes as to whether it would
not be worth while to break the panel at every performance.
But as this plate class cost us £4 17s. per panel we couldn't
make a commercial proposition of it, and had to abandon
the idea.
Committees in conjuring are of all sorts. You find some
members who want to get laughs for themselves, some who
try to catch the illusionist out, some who are amateur
conjurers trying to learn a trick or two-but the vast
majority are decent people, only anxious to prevent
obvious trickery, as it is their right to do, and with a keen
sense of helping along the performance and adding to
everyone's enjoyment.
I have had a lot of experience of all the various kinds,
and I still prefer to do a trick which necessitates a com-
mittee, because it is almost always more fun that way.
I owe my sincerest thanks to all the thousands of people
who have helped me in this way up and down the British
Isles.
But please-! do bar those who have dined not wisely
but too well!
CHAPTER XVTI
Off to South Africa with twelve tons of magic-Nature puts up a rival
magic show-A Zulu witch-doctor puts a curse on me-A
python round my neck-Three escapes from the Zulu's curse-I
meet a poltergeist.
IN 1930, after having received several invitations, I decided
to take a full-sized magic show on tour to South Mrica.
The decision was a momentous one for me. In the first
place, about forty years had elapsed since a Maskelyne
show had left England. More important still, the tour that
I planned necessitated carrying twelve tons of magic along
with me I
For you must know that a company of illusionists
necessarily take their apparatus from place to place as they
travel. This is difficult enough in England, where railways
and first-class motor-services reach out to every town and
village, and where a journey of a couple of hundred miles
between performances is about the worst that any week-end
can threaten.
In South Mrica, where the two hundred miles is turned
into thousands and then multiplied, and where transport
problems often have to be solved by bullock-waggons, or
native porters \vho carry everything on their heads, twelve
tons offragile machinery becomes somewhat ofa nightmare.
To say nothing of the difficulty of transporting it all
from England in the first place.
However, I did want to give the inhabitants of the
Union a really first-class show, so in addition to the illusion
apparatus, which \Vas packed in forty-four vast crates, I
selected a crack company to go \vith me, including Ling Foo,
215
2.16 WHITE MAGIC
a Chinese magician, Ben Said, a fine Egyptian illusionist,
Finlay Dunn with a splendid piano and burlesque turn,
my sister Mary, my wife's sister Miss Cecil Home-Douglas,
Glen Grafton, Alfred Barber as my manager and Walter
Howell as stage-manager. J-Iowell's father was my grand-
father's master-carpenter for many years.
Our crates contained, in addition to the apparatus for
over a hundred big illusions and tricks, some fifteen hundred
pieces of music and a huge variety of special costumes.
We opened at the Empire, Johannesburg, before a
public as enthusiastic as any to which I have ever played.
We performed some dramatic disappearing tricks; I
changed a jewelled decoration into a girl before the eyes
of the audience ; an "anti-gravity" globe slid up and down
a steel rod, though with no apparent means of support ; a
fishing-line, swung from the stage, suddenly became
weighted with a large goldfish while in full view of the
onlookers ; and I gave a variant of the old ribbon-from-a-
hat trick by coming on the stage dressed as an American
salesman and producing from my small attache-case
everything necessary to stock a reasonable-sized general
store, even including a charming girl assistant.
The most appreciated turn of the lot, I thlfJ.k, was one
in which I built a small canvas ark on the stage, showing
each piece to the audience so that they should see that
I was not deceiving them l Then, when the ark was placed
in such ·a position that they could see above it, behind it,
beneath it and all round it, I gave a dramatic repre,sentation
of Noah coming into port, and produced from my ark
sufficient animals to crowd tl).e big stage.
While I was at Johannesburg I obtained permission to
descend the world-famous Robinson Deep gold-mine.
Conditions in the great mining area south, east and
west of the city more resemble those of a barracks than
'I'HE S'I'ORY OF MASKELYNES 2.17
of a centre of industry. Regulations are extraordinarily
strict ; no one is allowed to enter or leave the place without
obtaining a countersigned pass; and the district, whose
buildings extend for over fifty miles, is heavily guarded
by police.
Everything is covered with thick white dust from the
ore-crushing operations, and the din of the stamps is so
deafening that, after leaving the place, one cannot hear
anything for half an hour or so.
The very greatest precautions are taken to prevent the
KafEr labourers from secreting any gold-dust about their
persons and smuggling it out of the neighbourhood. It
is said that much loss was caused formerly by their swallow-
ing the dust in quantity, and later reproducing it by the
aid of an emetic, but I cannot say if this is true or not.
On the whole I was surprised that the authorities
allowed a magician into such a place. At one period they
handed me a couple of gold bricks, worth £4000 apiece,
which I managed to heave on to my shoulders and painfully
balance there for the few moments necessary to have my
photograph taken "as a really wealthy man".
If they had not been so terribly heavy, I should perhaps
have been tempted to "vanish" those gold bricks 1
From Johannesburg we passed on to Pretoria, Pieter-
maritzburg and Ladysmith. In the latter town my company
met with a disconcerting reception. The audience, as
always, was delightful ; but Dame Nature, evidently
feeling that these human magicians were becoming pre-
sumptuous, showed us what real magic can be like.
Personally, I did not enjoy the experience!
Our show was nearing its close, after a very successful
evening, when a sudden terrific crash of thunder sounded
outside, and a veritable cloudburst of hail descended
without warning on to the tin roof of the Town Hall
2.18 WHITE MAGIC
. where we were appearing. This hall was used as a hospital
in the Boer War.
Hail in England is one thing ; in South Mrica it is
sometimes quite another I Almost befor~ I realized what it
was that was causing the deafening clatter and rattle, a glass
skylight directly above my head had been smashed by the
storm, and lumps of ice fully as big as golf-balls came
crashing down and bouncing as much as a foot high from
the boards of the stage. I was told next day that several
oxen, which were pasturing when the storm broke out and
were unable to find shelter, were beaten to death by the
- falling ice. ·
At the time I was in the very midst of a decapitation
trick. My assistant had been laid face downwards on an
oak chest ; I had covered his head wi'th a cloth, apparently
cut off the head, removed the cloth, walked round the
stage showing it to the audience, and was just about to
return to the decapitated body, whose shoulders were
still bleeding, when the storm commenced.
This trick necessitates the assistant keeping absolutely
motionless while his headless trunk is shown to the
audience. But the jagged ice-lumps pouring through the
broken skylight were crashing on to his back as he lay
there, and one which hit me on the side of the head almost
knocked me out, so I was frantic with anxiety for the still
figure of the "decapitated" victim.
Faster than I have ever done in my life, I completed
the trick, and my assi~tant and I ran offthe stage. Personally
I felt as if I had been clubbed several times on the head
with some sharp instrument~ and a trickle of blood \vas
running into my left eye from a cut made by a huge
hailstone on the edge of my forehead.
Several crates of our magic apparatus had been left in
the passage outside th~ stage-door of the theatre. Mraid
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 2.19
lest these should be damaged, I ran immediately to the
stage-door, meaning to drag them under cover.
The door seemed stuck tight, but I forced it open with
my shoulder. Then it would not close, for the weight had
been caused by a veritable torrent, about nine inches deep,
that was pouring along the passage outside. Before I could
drag the door shut again this torrent had diverted a good
part of itself down the steps into the back regions of the
theatre, and I had to wade back to my dressing-room, after
abandoning all hope of saving the crates outside, some of
which I had seen floating away on the stream during my
brief glimpse into the outer world. .
Returned to the dressing-room again I found everything
in awful disorder. I suppose the flood water must have been
entering the theatre elsewhere as well ; at least, my room
had about six inches of scummy water covering the floor,
and an absolute plague of little green frog~ had taken
residence there, and w·ere jumping about, in and out of
open crates of illusion apparatus, on my dressing-table,
on the clothes which I had discarded for my stage evening-
dress--everywhere.
For the first time in my life I felt a deep sympathy with
the Pharaoh of the Exodus who was similarly plagued I
Lifting what apparatus I could on to my dressing-table,
chairs-anywhere out of the flood- I raced off again to
rejoin my company, who were in sore trouble in the wings
of the theatre. The stage was absolutely untenable, owing
to the hail that still crashed steadily do\vn through the
broken skylight. What were we to do ?
After a hasty consultation I walked gingerly to a place
by the footlights where the hail could not reach me, though
lumps bounced malevolently at me from the middle of
the stage.
"Ladies and gentlemen 1" I shouted, making myself
220 WHITE MAGIC
heard above the din of the storm, "as you see, we cannot
carry on from the stage. But we do not want to rob you of
part of the show, and in any case you cannot very well
leave the theatre till the weather improves a bit. My
company proposes to carry on in the gangways of the
theatre itself. It will be rather more difficult to produce
our illusions surrounded by the audience in this way, so
we must ask your indulgence for the tricks we show."
A tremendous outburst of clapping greeted this
announcement. Willing hands from the audience helped
to carry the grand piano down into the front of the stalls,
and we continued our programme down there, making
slight adjustments to allow for the fact that we could not
use our more bulky magic machinery in such a restricted
space.
It was fortunate for us that we had brought so many
changes of programme to Mrica with us, for we needed
them all that night ! The hail and tropical rain, starting at
about half-past ten, continued incessantly till half an hour
after midnight. Then it ceased as suddenly as it had begun,
and I for one was very glad, for we had been performing
without a break for four hours.
The silence after the crash and boom of the storm on
the tin roof was startling. I took advantage of it to thank
the audience for thei~ indulgence, and to wish them a
cheerful good morning l
I was not prepared for the scene that followed. Cheering
began spontaneously, and lasted solidly for several minutes.
Then someone started singing "For They Are Jolly Good
Fellows", and the song went o~ and on through intermin-
able verses as the audience filed out into the darkness to
try to get home. Some of them had driven several hundred
miles across the veldt to see us perform. .
I have not often felt at a loss on the stage, but I could
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 P M A S K E L Y N E S .12I
not have replied to that generous mark of appreciation
then if I had been promised a fortune to do it.
The place outside was deep in flood water and
presented an amazing scene of chaos and destruction.
The men of my company joined me in a torchlight search
for our missing magic crates, while the girls went off to
try to dry theit stockings, for we had all got very wet
about the feet and legs during the show.
Our cases were scattered far and wide. One ofthem had
floated fully a hundred yards from the stage-door, and
fetched up leaning drunkenly against a fence.
The rows of cars waiting outside the theatre for their
owners had all been more or less flooded with water. Most
of them would not start for some time, and a rather curious
little cameo sticks in my mind in this connection.
At about one o'clock in the morning, returning to the
theatre and trundling the last of our lost crates in front of
me, I came round a corner and saw the long lines of cars,
mostly with their lights going now and adding an eerie
glamour to the scene, standing in irregular rows ; while,
with his head deep in each car's bonnet there was the busy
figure of its irate owner.
We had to open a fresh show in Durban, over a hundred
and fifty miles away, that same evening at 8.30. The
whole company worked like Trojans till 5 a.m., when the
scattered "magic" had been collected and dried and packed,
and everything was shipshape and ready for the train.
Then we snatched a short sleep, travelled to Durban, and
opened crack on the minute, to give one of the best shows
during the whole of our tour.
Later we visited Bloemfontein, where I had rather an
uncanny experience.
Mter the show I \Vas told that a Zulu \Vitch-doctor
wished to see me. He was shown into my dressing-room,
2.2..2 WHITE MAGIC
and he presented a most impressive appearance. He was
clad principally in ~ones, some of which were certainly
human, and gruesome little "charms", and though he must
have been very old his eyes glittered as brightly as a snake's.
He seemed to have lost his voice, so I asked him what
he wanted. Then he plunged off into a rigmarole about my
having stolen his rainstorm ! The old josser was apparently
accusing me of having stolen his rainstorm, and complained
he had lost great kudos ~ecause I had done so.
I pointed out to him that I hadn't wanted the wretched
thing, and that he could have had it and welcome ; but
that only made him worse. He thought I was being flippant,
and stared at me in a very nasty way. He said that the
Government made it hard enough for him to get a living
by banning baby-sacrifices and other pleasantries of that
nature, which, he said, were essential to the programme of
any well-conducted wizard. Now I had come into his
preserves, and, not content with prostituting the ancient
arts before irreverent onlookers, I had gone into the rain-
making business in direct rivalry to himself.
I had let him in to my room because I am always ready
to meet a brother magician, of whatever colour, class or
creed. But as this one had only complaints to offer, I asked
him to say what he wanted as briefly as possible and then
get out.
He calmly suggested that I should pay him fifty pounds. .
I am afraid I laughed at that. He began caressing a little
necklace of human finger-bones he was wearing, and for
the first time I felt something sinister emanate from the
ugly old ancient. I stopped laughing and ordered him
sharply to leave my room. ·
"I leave yo' room, 11assa," he piped in his shrill old
voice. "Oh, yes, I leave .yo' room. You t'ink Kulati silly
old nigger man. You learn, Massa-you learn 1"
1' HE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES .2.2.3
He flung something at me. It hit my chest and fluttered
to the floor as lightly as a match-stick. I stooped and picked
it up, and saw that it was one of the finger-bones from the
necklace. For some inexplicable reason the silly little relic
gave me quite a chill.
"Get out 1" I said sharply.
The wizened old man gave me another snaky look and
danced in a wild zig-zag to the door, chanting something
in a beastly high rnonotone. At the door he turned.
"You die or I die in six months, Massa," he shrilled.
Then the door slammed to behind him.
·Well, of course, I have had too many strange visitors
to my dressing-room to think much of a crazy old man like
that. Within a couple of days I had forgotten all about him.
Some three months later, however, after I had returned
to England, I narrowly escaped death when a taxi knocked
me down in Kensington and another taxi skidded to avoid
it and passed within six inches of my head as I lay on the
greasy road.
While I was being picked up I was still pretty dazed,
and I suppose that accounts for a vivid vision I had for a
moment of the old black witch-doctor bending over me
there in the street and staring into my closed eyes.
A month later I was cycling in Herne Hill when a lorry
touched the handlebar of my bicycle and sent me flying into
the road. I sustained considerable bruising, and was
narrowly missed by the lorry's huge wheels as it rumbled
to a standstill ; and once again a memory or vision of the
old Zulu flashed into my mind with painful clearness.
Six months almost to the day after that old and dirty
reprobate had threatened me in my dressing-room in
Bloemfontein I was swimming in a summery sea at Hythe
when I was gripped by the ~ost infernal cramp I have ever
known.
2.2.4 W H I T ~ M A G I C
My legs refused to move, and the pain paralysed me.
I slipped down through the green water, and it closed
softly over my head. A convulsive effort brought me to
the surface, but the pain it caused almost made me faint,
and I sank again at once. Sliding down to the depths I
suddenly recalled the witch-doctor; and seemed to see him
lying in a grass hut horribly contorted in an attitude which
I think only some gripping alkaloid poison could have
induced.
Rage against the old man swept through my body, and
prompted one more effort. I struck out violently, my head
broke the surface again, and at the same moment my feet
touched bottom. I had somehow struggled back into
shallow water.
I often wonder whether my visions were mere coin-
cidence caused by pain and a subconscious memory of the
old man's prophecy, or whether he really died within the
six months, perhaps uttering his death-chant, just as my
imagination pictured him, while I was fighting for life in
the water. For it is a recognized canon of the Black Arts
that a curse involving life and death always comes home to
roost within the specified time if it fails to take effect on
the intended victim.
After Bloemfontein we went on to East London and
Port Elizabeth. At the latter town I visited the world-famous
snake-park, and was fascinated with my first view of the
place.
The pythons' enclosure looked interesting, so I entered
it and picked up an eighteen-foot snake which had a rather
friendly face. I was not mistaken about its character ; it
twined itself over my shoulder and round my neck in the
pleasantest manner imaginable.
There was quite a lot of excitement at my act, but it
was neither foolhardy nor brave. As I have explained
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNE S 225
elsewhere, we have a legend in our family that a forerunner
entered into a compact with the Devil; and one of the
terms of the contract was that no Maskelyne should ever
fear a serpent, or be harmed by one.
The legend is doubtless all moonshine, but it is a fact
that none of us is afraid of snakes ; and apparently no wild
thing, unless blinded by pain or previous rage, will attack
a person who obviously does not fear it.
Anyway, I found the pythons perfectly tractable-as
much so as overgrown worms, though in the jungle no
animal, not even the elephant, will dispute the way with
them, and they are said to be able to batter a stone wall
down with their heads, or to break the neck of a buffalo
with their powerful coils.
Later, the native keeper, Johannes, came up to me, and
I had to leave the pythons. I asked his permission to tty
my charms on the cobras, but this he would by no nieans
permit, at which I was disappointed.
I am an actor ; this sort of thing, had I been allowed to
carry out my own programme, would have been marvellous
publicity for me ; and why should I pretend that I would
have been averse to publicity ?
We spent our Christmas Day that year on a train
travelling between two shows. Plum pudding, mince pies,
roast turkey, holly and crackers were all present and correct,
most of the items having been sent out from England
specially. We had a very jolly time, but the temperature was
97 degrees in the shade I
During our South Mrican tour we covered over
2o,ooo miles, and enjoyed e'very moment of it. I was very
much impressed by three things about the country ; the
wonderful bathing, the opportunities that the land presents
for pushing youngsters with courage, and the \Vonderful
hospitality and generosity of the people. I have happy
2.2.6 WHITE MAGIC
memories of that tour, but it is far too hot out there to
make stage-work at all pleasant.
Incidentally, we learned a trick while we were out there.
Miss Cecil Home-Douglas, my wife's sister, who had been
a member of our company, disappeared and never came
back to the illusionist stage. This strange vanishing trick
was worked by a little old magician well known in Grecian
times under the stage-name of Eros 1
I cannot leave this story of my South African tour
without reference to an experience I had in Pietermaritz-
burg, which I shall always remember as the most curious
thing that I have witnessed in a life spent inside the
mysterious circle of professional magic.
A lady came to my hotel one morning and asked to see
me. She was obviously in trouble, and explained that her
granddaughter, a girl of seventeen or so, seemed to be
haunted with a f!miliar spirit.
Often, when this girl was in the room, objects would
fly off the mantelpiece or table and float down to the floor,
no human hand touching them. My informant was precise
upon this point that the objects floated, and that even break-
able objects like a clock or glassware were never damaged
in their falls.
At first the girl and her grandparents (her father and
mother had died when she was fourteen) had looked on
this phenomenon as something clever and amusing, though
the girl could not apparently "turn on the power" ; it
came and went of its own accord in rooms where she was.
But a religious-minded friend had suggested that the
child was possessed of devils, and this silly theory had so "
preyed on the minds of the three of them that the girl was
rapidly becoming a nervous wreck, and her grandparents
were almost ill with anxiety.
Could I lay the ghost ?
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F M..A S K ELY N E S 2.2.7
Well, of course, I am not a professional ghost-master,
though there seems a world-wide superstition that I am I
Still, the woman looked in \Vretched trouble, and I thought
I had better go along and see what I could do.
I went straight to the house of my informant, and met
her husband and grandchild there. The girl looked nervous
and unhappy; but no ghostly phenomena exhibited them-
selves during my visit. My status was not explained to the
granddaughter ; I was simply introduced as a friend.
I stayed for about half an hour, and then rose to take
my leave. The lady who had brought me accompanied me
out on to the verandah, after I had said good-bye to the
others, and apologized for troubling me.
"I had expected to see something happen," she said
sorrowfully, "because Anna's haunting always takes place .
when she is nervous."
At the same time we both heard a low cry from the
room we had just left. Without apology, I ran back and
opened the door.
Looking in I saw something really uncanny. The big
clock from the mantelpiece was floating in mid-air at some
five feet from the floor; as I opened the door it glided
swiftly yet smoothly downwards and settled on the rug
before the fire.
It was still the right way up, and was still ticking gently,
though it was a pendulum clock, and any shaking would
have stopped it instantly.
In a moment I knew what was wrong. With a mur-
mured excuse that I had forgotten my gloves, I did an
elementary little trick and made the gloves "appear" on a
side-table, whence I retrieved them, and, saying good-bye
once more, returned to the verandah, where n1y hostess
was still waiting.
''I think I have solved your mystery," I said happily.
p
WHITE MAGIC
"Don't worry any more about this devil-possession
rubbish. Your grandchild is a poltergeist, my dear lady ; it
is a disease very well known to medical science, though it
cannot be explained away. Give the girl a change of air
and scene for six months, and I'll wager my reputation as a
magician that the clocks will fly no more."
This poltergeist quality is a strange and rare disease
caused by abnormal nervousness in adolescents. No one
knows just how, but a poltergeist can cause articles to defy
the laws of gravity, and float about in mid-air, eventually
coming gently to the ground, just as I had seen the clock
do. The power is not a voluntary one, and seldom lasts
more than a few months.
Change of interests is the usual cure, and very seldom
fails. It did not fail in the case of my Pietermaritzburg
friends. I had a letter from the grandmother, shortly after
my return to England, thanking me in far too extravagant
language for that c:;imple service which my knowledge of
all things magic had enabled me to perform.
The girl had shown no more symptoms ofthe poltergeist
state after they had got her a job in a distant town. She
was now very happy, her health had come racing back,
and there was a hint that she was more or less engaged.
I was very delighted at her cure.
I still have that letter, together with the finger-bone
which the Zulu wizard threw at me, and one or two other
mementoes of my South Mrican tour, in our Maskelyne
magic museum. I hope the girl has found real happiness
since ; and nowadays I can even spare a good wish for the
naughty old witch-doctor, though for the first six months
after I met him I was inclined to curse him frequently and
long.
May they cool his toes occasionally on my behalf in
the place where he has gone!
CHAPTER XVITI
The ghosts from the plague-pit-My first Royal Command show on
my own-A children's garden party-! am dismissed from St.
George's Hall-Starting alone-Appearing before the Queen-
St. George's Hall shuts down-Adventures on tour-"Jasper,
the husband's fear".
MY reputation for laying ghosts seemed to have preceded
me back from South Mrica. For one of the first things I
was asked to do after my return was to settle the hash of a
peculiarly troublesome spectre in a night-dub.
You and I, of course, would have thought a ghost
most appropriate to such a place, and an added attraction
to revellers. But somehow this apparition seems to have
exceeded the code laid down in the best uncanny circles.
So troublesome did it become, indeed, that the
proprietors of the J\1oulin Rouge Club in Brixton called
in the police to try to arrest it. But I understand that it just
uttered a thin wail and vanished when invited to "Come
quiet and it'll be the better fer you 1" The officers then took
down the wail and altered it and prepared to use it in
evidence against the apparition, if ever captured ; and
left the world to darkness and to me.
Meanwhile some bright individual had discovered that
the Moulin Rouge Night Club had been built over what
had been a huge death-pit at the time of the Great Plague.
I am told that a famous clergyman was approached to see
if he would "cleanse" the place of its ghostly visitants, but
he very sensibly said that he thought temporal interference
could do more than spiritual in this case-and he was right.
Within a week or so after the first report ofthe haunting,
229
.130 WHITE MAG I C
the newspapers were taking an interest, and the affair
became a national concern. The ghosts, it seemed, used to
moan and wail:; and to cause lights to appear and disappear
within the building after it was locked up for the night.
These lights had first attracted attention to the haunting
when a passing policeman noticed gleams in the windows at
about two o'clock in the morning.
On the night of May 12th, 193I, a group of newspaper
representatives spent the night inside the Moulin Rouge
Club. Every room was locked, every window bolted, and
the keys of the place reposed in the room where the
watchers sat waiting, in complete darkness. The main
electric light switch of the building had been turned off.
At twenty minutes to three in the morning all the
electric lights in the place suddenly switched on one by
one, apparently of their own accord. I should mention that
the main switch of the building was in a locked room with
no window.
The building, which was already surrounded by waiting
police, was enclosedin a cordon ofblue and then thoroughly
searched. Nothing and no one was found ; but about an
hour later a glass sandwich-dish sailed in through one of
the windows and smashed to atoms on the floor, missing
the head of one of the pressmen by about six inches.
The interesting thing was that no one could imagine
where the dish had come from, since the window in
question was about seventy feet away from the nearest
thoroughfare, and seventy feet is an amazing throw with
a heavy glass dish, even when there are no watchful
policemen about. _
The next night I joined the posse of Fatchers inside the
haunted building. At ten minutes to three, scratchings,
clicks and unearthly cries were heard from two different
sources. Lights began to appear and vanish, and the
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MASKE LYNES 231
waiting investigators ran in the directions from which the
sounds came.
Meanwhile I slipped from my place and hurried silently
down into an alley which a previous search had made me
suspect. There I found two girls in black dance-frocks and
a man in a dark suit. The "ghosts" were a lot more startled
than I was when I walked up to them.
A whistle brought an inspector of police on my heels.
The whole affair proved to be a practical joke, the practical
part of it being to attract business to the neighbourhood.
As I have said elsewhere, on more than one occasion,
I am still waiting to meet what one might call a "real"
ghost.
In May, 1932, I received a very happy surprise. I was
asked to appear in a Royal Variety Performance before
the late King George and Queen Mary, at the Palladium
Theatre. It was my first proper Command Performance,
and I looked forward to it with both exhilaration and
nervousness.
' A splendid company had been engaged, including
such famous stars as Cicely Courtneidge, Jack Buchanan,
Will Fyffe, G. S. Melvin, Vesta Victoria and Jack Hylton's
Band.
My choice ofillusions included four tricks in which the
distinguished audience seemed especially interested. The
first was one in which I put some water in a glass bowl,
added a handful of sand, stirred the mixture into mud,
and then put my hand in the bo\vl under the water and
drew out two or three handfuls of perfectly dry, powdery
sand.
I produced some eggs from nowhere, performed a
musical bell trick, and finally gave a demonstration that
fishermen friends of mine have often openly envied.
I came on to the stage carrying a fisherman's rod and
.23.2 WHITE MAGIC
line and a glass bowl of goldfish. The line was as innocent
offish as that ofthe veriest tyro ; but I cast in the direction
of the footlights and a few seconds later a goldfish was
suddenly seen, apparently having materialized out of thin
air, on my hook, while the bowl now contained one less
fish than before.
Another flip of the rod, and the fish had vanished from
the line and appeared again in the bowl. I may say that a
rubber fish is used in this illusion, since the mouth of a real
one would certainly get damaged.
But the rubber fish contains a delicate little apparatus
to make it wriggle and flop about on the hook and swim
round the bowl when it is returned there afterwards.
This apparatus caused me an embarrassing moment at the
Royal Performance.
It must have been wound up rather too strongly;
anyway, there was a hectic second when I was standing
with my line cast, and the toy fish was flopping wildly
about in my sleeve, trying to emerge on to the stage and
make an independent bow to the audience 1 ·
Fortunately I was able to appear perfectly at ease (at
considerable strain to myself 1), the fish appeared duly in
its place on the hook, and the trick was finished without
anyone but myself realizing how near I had been to a
catastrophe.
Only a week or two after this Command show I was
appearing before another Royal person-the Hon. Gerald
Lascelles, son of Princess Mary. The occasion was that of
a Children's Garden Party at Marlborough House, Queen
Alexandra's former residence.in London.
The party was an enormous success. There was a switch-
back railway of magnificent proportions, a toboggan run,
roundabouts, houp-la! a balloon-bursting contest which
attracted much noisy patronage, a complete circus, a
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 2.33
shooting-gallery, and wonderful arrangements for
refreshments.
The whole affair was arranged in support of the
Children's Hospital, Great Ormond Street, to which
Sir James Barrie had formerly presented all rights of
his play Peter Pan.
I enjoyed this garden-party very much indeed; I always
get great fun when performing before children.
Towards the end of January, 1933, an event occurred
that formed a turning-point in my life. It did more than
that ; it was, I believe, fairly largely responsible for the
disappearance from the London theatre world of the name
of Maskelyne, which had shone resplendent there from the
time when my grandfather first stormed into the metropolis
with his magic show.
It was nothing less than my. own dismissal from
St. George's Hall I
The story is not one to dwell upon, though I am cer-
tainly not ashamed of my own part in it. I will tell you
briefly how it happened.
Alone of my generation of Maskelynes, I had taken up
professional magic in my youth and worked before the
public at St. George's Hall ever since. I \Vas only twenty
when I gave my first show there, \vith my father. He and
I carried on together until his death ; and after that, for
many years, right up to 1933, I was the controlling influence
in the place.
I claim that I did pretty \vell. In face of tremendous
rivalry from dozens of new and old theatres and hundreds
of cinemas, I kept receipts up and managed to produce
attractive shows.
But my brothers, one ofwhom was trained as a wireless
engineer and the other as an expert on lifts, decided in I 933
that they knew more about public entertainment than I did,
WHI'I'E MAGIC
who had earned my keep at it all my adult life. I disagreed.
I pointed out-perhaps rather too forcibly for a youngest
brother-that magic was an art and a profession, not just
a thing capable of being understood by a dilettante who
spent a few hours a week looking over the theatre receipt
books.
I am hot-tempered. Doubtless I said things \Vhich were
not tactful or soothing. I blame myselfbitterly now, because
in this way I was at least partly responsible for the break-up
of Maskelyne's Theatre.
Anyway, I lost the argument. I lost it so completely
that I received my notice as well, and an indication with it
that the sooner I quitted St. George's Hall the more
pleasant the place would seem to those who were left.
It was, I don't mind admitting, something in the nature
of a knock-out for me.
What was I to do ? I had no provincial tour fixed up-
and these things have to be arranged months in advance
as a rule. I had no manager. Worst ofall, I had no apparatus;
and a magician these days without apparatus is about as well
off as a printer without a press, or a soldier without a
uniform or weapons.
Let it be confessed-I did not even have very much
money available to buy it, and magic apparatus is veiy
costly stuff, a single item occasionally costing two or three
hundred pounds. I was married and had a couple of small
children ; I had lived well, expecting that Maskelynes was
an institution that would go on for ever.
In this situation-and it was truly a tragic and terrifying
one for me-my wife was my good angel and myinspiration.
Without her, I might have dropped out ofthe entertainment
world altogether. She it was who inspired me to try, in face
of all my difficulties, in spite of the stunning suddenness
with which I found myself out of a job and unwanted, to
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 23 5
build up a reputation on my own-to try to fit the giant .
mantle of J. N. on my own shoulders.
I will not bore you with the full details of my next
moves. Suffice it to say that-because of my wife's faith in
me-I spent on magic apparatus all the money we possessed,
except half a crown for myself and enough to keep her and
the children for a week. My last five pounds were expended
on a return railway ticket to Glasgow, where I had obtained
a week's engagement at the Empire.
For the week preceding my trip north I was running
non-stop magic from three o'clock to eleven at St. George's
Hall, sleeping from midnight to four in the morning, and
working from four till three in the afternoon putting my
magic apparatus together and testing it out.
Glasgow, with only half a crown between me and
financial dissolution, looked very forbidding. And it
certainly was very cold.
I found a lodging where they would take me in on the
chance of my theatre engagement being successful.
I have had a very warm spot in my heart for Glasgow
ever since that evening 1I was nervous and excited, and it
seemed to me that I did not give the best performance of
which I was capable ; but Glasgow took me to its heart.
Bless you, Glasgow 1 You made a magician that
night 1
That was on February 13th; and my week's engagement
was so satisfactory that I received offers from other pro-
vincial theatres before it was half over. Still, things might
have been difficult but for the fact that I was commanded
to appear, on February 24th, before Queen Mary, at a
special matinee in aid of Queen Mary's Hospital, the show
to be staged at His Majesty's Theatre in London.
It is a fact that I have always remembered with pride
that I was the only artiste who had appeared at the Command
WHITE MAGIC
Show the previous May whom the Queen included in the
list for her Hospital matinee so soon afterwards.
This Royal Performance, of course, gave my bookings
a tremendous fillip. I was wanted everywhere. In London
I was very soon showing at the Palladium and elsewhere.
And Maskelynes' Theatre meanwhile ? Well, it just hit
a patch of bad luck. I longed to offer my experience to help
it through, but I knew it would not have been any good ~
doing so.
A big Diamond Jubilee Performance was advertised, to
celebrate the passing ofsixty years since my grandfather first
gave a magic show in London. It was a wonderful success,
and magicians from all over the world attended, in addition
to a fashionable audience.
Among the latter were numbers of grey-bearded men
and elderlyladieswho hadfirst visited Maskelynes' Mysteries
perhaps as long as half a century or more previously. Some
of them remembered the first performances at St. George's
Hall, and had followed the fortunes of Maskelyne and Cooke
from the days when the illusionists first appeared at the
Egyptian Hall.
A good many were personal friends of my grandfather
and father. They little knew that the name of Maskelyne
would vanish from London entertainment altogether within
a few months.
I have heard since that then and at other times numbers
of patrons whom I had come to know personally, during
my eleven years' work at the theatre, asked after me,
wanting to know when I should return to St. George's Hall.
They were told that I would ~e coming back "in: a few
weeks" ; but of course I never returned.
At the Diamond Jubilee Performance, the Davenport
Cabinet Trick was revived as being appropriate for the
occasion. My brother Noel and sister Maryseatedthemselves
'l' HE S T 0 R Y 0 F MAS X E LYNES 137
inside the cabinet, which was just big enough to hold them,
and both were roped up firmly hand and foot by a com-
mittee from the audience. Tambourines, bells, slates and
pencils were placed in the cabinet, out of reach of the
prisoners' manacled hands.
The cabinet doors were locked by the committee, but
the bells and tambourines began to ring, and messages were
written on the slates ; though whenthe cabinetwas unlocked
a moment later both prisoners were still tied as before, and
the seals on the ropes were intact.
Several other clever illusions were performed, and the
show received awonderful reception from everyonepresent.
Towards the end ofthe same year, St. George's Hall was
put up for sale, and the B.B.C. took it to use for their music-
hall concerts. I have appeared there myself since, under
their banner. What a pity that Grandfather's scheming anq
work should have ended like that !
My adventures "on the road" would fill a volume in
themselves. I was lucky to find a first-class manager in
Mr. Jack Whitmore, who has been my friend and adviser
ever since. I found provincial and London theatre managers
helpful and kind.
For the audiences I have met on my travels, from
Cardiff to Hull, from Land's End to John o' Groats, no
words are good enough I I must just say-"Thank you I"
and again-"Thank you!"
One trouble, however, caused me endless annoyance
during the first months of my ne\v adventures. It was this :
A magician's illusions are made to impress his audience
in front of the footlights, with sometimes an indulgence
towards a committee who come up an? stand about on the
stage. From behind the curtain, however, the whole bag of
tricks is open to vulgar inspection.
In a good 5o per cent of our big illusions, stage-hands
WHITE MAGIC
have to assist out of sight in the wings or up in the flies.
Consequendy, our greatest secrets are no secrets to them.
When I first started touring, I overlooked this salient
fact. I began to produce the very best tricks that I had
staged at St. George's Hall, where all our assistants were as
loyal as bulldogs, and many of them venerated the memory
of my grandfather as well.
My new tricks caused a sensation in the theatres I
visited. But alas for human nature 1Other magicians, who
desperately wanted to learn the secrets of those tricks,
marched on my trail, standing drinks to good fellows
among the stage-hands who had assisted me, offering a
five-pound note here and some other inducement there,
just for a couple of words of explanation-"to setde a
bet"-about the way I did this or that.
And, of course, this and that began immediately after-
wards to appear in other theatres, under the regis of rival
magicians.
So I learned to restrain my youthful enthusiasm to offer
the public the very best tricks from my magic repertoire.
There are one or two, from year to year, that I put aside to
produce only when I have my own theatre again, when the
problem of leaking secrets should not arise. Meanwhile, I
do very well with what I have available outside this
selection.
One of the most amusing things that my venturing out-
side the charmed circle of St. George's Hall caused to
happen to me was the flood ofanonymous letters I began to
receive accusing me of using my magic powers for wicked
purposes. .
Candidly, after I had had a dozen or two ofthese letters,
from places scattered up and down the country, I began to
be quite afraid to go home alone on a dark night 1
I was told that I really possessed occult powers ; that
THE S T 0 R Y 0 F MAS K ELY N E S 239
I used them for such things as "carrying out invisible
robberies" (I quote from an old letter before me as I write);
and that I was the head of a great international crime gang.
It is astounding what an amount of superstition still
exists in this enlightened land l
The proprietor of a restaurant where I used to go
frequently when I was in London one day showed me-
with a pardonable grin, I must admit-a long screed he had
just received about me. It warned him notto letmepatronize
his hotel any more, and explained that I came there for the
purpose of hypnotizing clients, and bending them to serve
my evil purposes when I wanted any special crimes com-
mitted in which I objected to appearing in person.
H~ From what the writer said, I was no end ofa "husband's
fear"; a dashing mixture of Crippen and Sikes and Dr.
Nikola and Roaring Rupe the Hold-up King l
These curious epistles have pursued me throughout my
public life, ever since I left St. George's Hall. I can only -
assume that my detractors thought that so long as a magician
kept within his own little circle he could not do much
harm; but that he should not come outside it.
I might also mention that I have been seriously credited
with the power of healing by the laying-on of hands. To
those who believ~ this, I habitually reply that I have no such
gifts-! only wish I had.
Once, at least, a lad was brought to me by his mother,
at a theatre where I was appearing at Leicester. The poor
woman not only sincerely believed that I could heal her
boy ofa slight stutter he had recently developed, but refused
to accept my statement that I could not do so, and almost
insisted that I should try, even though I did not think myself
that it would do any good.
It was a dreadful position. Rather than refuse, I put my
hands on the lad's shoulders, stared hard at him, and told
240 W H I T E M A G I C
him that his stutter was only a temporary nervous trouble-
that he imagined that it would come, and that it did come.
Now he was to think terribly hard that it would never come
again.
"All right, sir, I will," he answered, without a trace of
hesitation or stutter !
And I have received two or three letters since-which
make me feel like a hypocrite-from the mother saying that
he has never stuttered since that day. Yet obviously I did
nothing more than suggest the idea to the boy ; I couldn't
hypnotize a sausage !
Indeed, I only wish I could cure myself of 'flu, from a
most degrading attack ofwhich I am suffering even as I pen
these words.
CHAPTER XIX
Private party magic-The sand trick on a valuable Persian carpet-
A "levitating table"-The romance of a vanishing spectre-The
case of the disappearing traveller-An unrehearsed trick with
two note-books.
SoME of my most amusing adventures as a magician have
taken place at private parties where I have appeared
professionally.
The atmosphere of such parties is conducive to my
art. The guests are gathered for the actual purpose of
enjoying themselves. They are friends who are all looking
forward to being entertained ; all they ask is a rattling good
show, without caring very much whether they can guess
the "works" or not.
Particularly at Christmas, when I am called upon to
amuse children's parties all over the country, do I feel that I
have chosen the right profession. There is something spon-
taneous and warm and delightful about children's applause
which more than makes up for other professional dis-
appointments and difficulties.
A children's Christmas party is my favourite audience.
I shall never forget one such party, which I attended
a year or two ago, at the home of one of England's most
famous sporting peers.
My host, who is a grandfather and, I believe, a great-
grandfather, is one of those lucky people who seem hom
to be a pal of youngsters of both sexes. His twinkling eye,
comfortable figure and apparently bottomless pocket, from
which latter he produces "tips" more expeditiously even
than I can materialize articles on the stage, combine to give
241
242 WHITE MAGIC
him a great reputation among the dozens of boys and girls
who can claim relationship or friendship with him.
At this Christmas Party of which I am writing the
youthful audience was almost delirious with delight long
before my part of the entertainment commenced. Having
been with some difficulty quieted and arranged in chairs,
they watched the curtain rise on my performance, and
were thoroughly in the mood to enjoy whatever tricks I
chose to show them.
I ran through my repertoire, and as always when the
audience is a sympathetic and excited one, was inspired to
perform my very best. I ended with a trick in which I
borrowed a top-hat from the host, together with a huge
pair ofscissors, apparently cut the hat to bits, handed round
the pieces to be examined by the screaming children,
received them back again, shook them up in an empty
cardboard box, showed the box to be empty, turned it
upside-down, and then shook the borrowed "topper",
perfect and undamaged, from its interior.
This concluding illusi9n was greeted with howls of
delight, from which rose the persistent voice ofa young lady
of about five years old.
"You couldn't do that, Uncle, I'll bet I Could you,
Uncle I"
But Uncle was not going to be challenged in this way in
his own house and refuse the dare.
"I'll show you whether I can do it or not, my dear
Cicely I" he responded with mock severity, and climbed
up on to the stage beside me. "Would you mind lending me
your hat, Mr. Maskelyne ?" h~ asked.
I did so. He examined my "topper" a moment, reflec-
tively picked up the scissors, and asked me if I minded him
trying to repeat my own trick. I had no objection, though I
rather doubted if he could do it.
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 243
Next moment, the scissors had sheared)hrough the rim,
and a large section fell to the floor l
Now I was standing within three feet ofhim at the time,
and, since I knew what to look for in the trick, I expected
to see something which did not happen. Instead, another
and another sliver of hat was clipped away ; reai!J clipped
away from my hat I
I looked closer and closer, till the hat was cut into small
strips, but even with my experience I could not detect the
illusion.
Then my host put the strips into my cardboard box,
shook them up, and turned to his audience, who waited
breathless and silent. He turned the box upside down, just
as I had done-but instead ofthe bits having vanished, they
all poured out on to the floor I
It was comical to see the chagrin on his face. The
audience rose to its feet, whooped, shouted \vith laughter
and yelled unkind advice.
Then the amateur conjurer picked up the bits, and
turned to me with a crestfallen air.
"I'm afraid I can't do it after alii" he said sadly.
And there was my top-hat in segments all over the
carpet at our feet I
That was undoubtedly the most successful trick of the
evening. It took five minutes to calm down the shrill-voiced
boys and girls, who were triumphing delightedly over the
failure to imitate my illusion, and wanting to know what
"granddad" or "uncle" would do about Mr. Maskelyne's
hat I
When I was leaving, my host took me aside.
"I knew you wouldn't mind my amusing them, even
though it was rather at your expense as well as my own,"
he said, as he shook hands. "I took the liberty of palming
your hat into the hall here-look l It's no worse after all I"
Q
WHITE MAGIC
But the "topper" with which he presented me was a
brand new one, and it bore, inside, the name of the most
famous hatter in London. I need hardly say it fitted me
perfectly.
I have met with a good many exciting and amusing little
incidents at this type of private party.
Recently, when I was giving a show at a big party held
in London by Lord Ellenborough, I arrived at the house
to find that a splendidly fitted and lighted rostrum had been
built specially for me. On the rostrum lay a beautiful old
Persian carpet whose value would certainly have amounted
to several hundred pounds.
It was an extraordinarily kind action to have put it there,
but I must admit that I felt inclined to think about it while
I was performing my illusions, terrified lest any accident in
one of them might damage the priceless carpet.
Then I was asked to perform my sand trick-the same
which I had given at the Royal Command Performance
shortly before. In this trick, I throw some sand into a glass
bowl of water, stir the contents into mud, and then put my
hand in the mud and draw forth dry, crumbly sand which
neither the water nor my wet hand has even moistened.
But no one can perform this trick without splashing a
certain amount of mud about-that is beyond even my
magic. And how could I possibly risk getting mud on this
lovely carpet ?
I begged Lord Ellenborough to allow me to remove the
carpet, but he laughingly told me not to bother. Luckily for
my peace ofmind, I had in my "bag oftricks" a mackintosh
sheet. This I spread over the <;arpet, and then performed the
trick perfectly satisfactorily.
At a performance I gave in Ipswich recently, at the
country home of Lord Woodbridge, I met with a stranger
difficulty still. I had to give an hour's show on the lawn, and
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K B L Y N B S 2.45
showing magic in the open, away from friendly walls,
curtains and so on, is always a hundred times more difficult
than performing indoors.
A wooden stage was to be erected for me on the lawn,
and I went down to oversee its building, so as to try to take
advantage ofany tricks which I could manage to incorporate
in its construction.
Just before the performance was due to begin I was
moving about the stage making my last-minute preparations
when I noticed an uncanny thing.
A table on the other side of the stage was slowly rising
into the air I
I strode over towards it, wondering whether I had
accidentally run across a superhuman manifestation at long
last. But it sank down into its original place as quiedy and
gravely as before.
I stared at it, tapped it and moved it about, but it
remained just an ordinary uninspired wooden table. I
scratched my head, gave up puzzling, and turned to see to
something else.
Happening to leave it for a moment and go to the far
side of the stage, I turned round sharply because I thought
I heard a movement behind me-and there was the table
slowly rising again.
This time, I cleared the distance between us in a single
leap-and the secretwas revealed, because the table promptly
danced up and down and fell off the stage altogether I
A loose board explained the mystery. When I trod on
one end, the other end rose and "levitated" the table. But it
did it in such an uncanny manner that I must admit to a
feeling of definite uneasiness for a moment or two.
What was more to the point, it was now too late to alter
the fastening ofthe board. So I had to perform for an hour,
with a clear memory in the background of my mind that
WHITE MAGIC
I must on no account tread on a certain portion of the
stage lest the table vanished and exposed something secret
in doing so.
Magic needs enormous concentration ; I was thankful to
get my performance over-a whole hour without the help
ofstage properties-whout any mishap from the "levitating
table".
A most curious thing happened when I was giving a
performance at Grosvenor House a year or two ago.
It was at Christmas-time, and I was producing a ghost-
raising illusion, in which the spectre of a girl appeared and
conversed with me on the stage. Unfortunately one comer
ofthe stage was not very well lighted at the time, owing to
a wiring failure which happened on Christmas morning,
when no electricians were available, and though using this
corner made our illusion all the more effective, it was also
rather dangerous, since one could easily step off the edge
altogether.
As bad luck would have it, my usual assistant developed
a bad attack of 'flu that evening, and I had to get a sub-
stitute, who, though very good, was not accustomed to
steering about in the less-lighted bit of that particular stage.
That evening, as the ghost and I were holding con-
versation, my spectre did a more effective vanishing-trick
than anything I have seen for years, by disappearing over
the edge of the stage. Owing to the haze with which I
surround my stage apparitions, and the imperfect lighting
in that corner, no one saw her go.
She was a courageous ghost, for she lay silent where she
had fallen, though she had suffered some bad bruises. I
improvised a line or two to suit the occasion, and carried
on with the trick.
That night, several people complimented me on the
marvellous way my assistant had vanished. Most eager of
T H E S T 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S 147
those who praised me was a young man of title, who, when
he heard the story of what had happened, begged to be
introduced to the plucky girl.
That story had a curious sequel. Within a week the two
were engaged to be married. When I offered my assistant
my congratulations, she told me that she had known her
fiance two years before, when they both lived in Yorkshire.
She was the daughter of a poor but well-connected
family in the East Riding ; her wooer was the rich son of a
manufacturer who had only recently gained a title. The
parents on both sides frowned on the friendship between
the boy and girl; squabbles began in both homes; and the
girl ran away to London, where she got a job as my assistant,
and earned her own living. No one knew where she had
gone.
Some familiar note in her voice had echoed in the young
man's memory when he heard my spectre talking to me on
the stage. He had no idea where she had been for the past
two years, but he made an excuse to see if this was the girl
he had lost.
It was ; and the story ended in wedding-bells-or should
one say, that began the best part of the story?
Just before Christmas 1935 I was travelling to Derby,
where I had an engagement for a private performance, when
I became involved in an affair that for a short time seemed
to me quite uncanny.
The train in which I was travelling was.not a corridor
one, and in my compartment was only one other traveller,
a man who sat ensconced behind his newspaper so securely
that I did not get a glimpse ofhis face for many miles. Then,
having been showing very late the previous night, I fell
asleep, and did not wake again till the train was drawing into
a station.
I knew that we had not stopped anywhere since I fell
WHITE MAGIC
asleep; when I woke we .were still doing fifteen miles an
hour or so-yet my companion had vanished. I have said
that it was not a corridor train.
I looked under the seats, stared at the closed doors ofthe
compartment past which the lines were slowly running-and
began to believe I had been dreaming. Where could he have
vanished to-or was he just a figment of my sleepy
imagination ?
Before I was properly awake we had stopped at the
station and a burly man in grey had jumped into my
compartment.
"You haven't seen a man, five-foot eleven, slim build,
black hair, horn-rimmed glasses, grey overcoat, scar on his
left cheek, in the train ?" he rattled off.
What was I to say? My vanishing fellow-traveller had
been in the compartment before I reached it, and had hidden
behind his paper all the time I was awake ; unless, as I was
more than ready to suppose, I had only dreamed him I I
shook my head.
"Couldn't have joined the train after all then. Right you
are, sir. Thanks very much I" sn~pped the detective and
vanished.
The train presently drew out. When it was gathering
speed, the opposite door of my compartment opened, and
a man climbed into the carriage who had apparently been
holding himself on to the footboard outside, out of sight.
He was of slim build, fairly tall, and was wearing a grey
overcoat whose turned-up collar half-hid a'scarred cheek.
"You did me a good tum, Mr. Maskelyne," he grinned.
"I vanished myself while you were asleep. Take me on as
an assistant?" ·
He seemed to expect no answer, but hid himself behind
his paper. At Derby he slipped out of the train and was lost
in the crowd.
'I' H E S 'I' 0 R Y 0 F M A S K E L Y N E S .249
Only once before in my career had I any experience of
the criminal classes, and that, I think, is the strangest story
of my \vhole collection.
I had just previously bought a very fast car, of which
I was very proud, and I proposed to give myself a day off
on Derby Day and run down to see the race.
I was roaring along the road to Epsom when I saw
waving to me ahead a rather dirty little figure in a huge
greatcoat and muffler and a green cloth cap. I pulled up,
and was asked in a rather impudent Cockney voice for a lift.
Something about the cut of the little man amused me,
and I told him to jump in. He knew something about cars,
and praised the points of my new "steed". Under the cir-
cumstances, it was no more than natural that I should "let
her out" a bit to show off her paces.
Unhappily for me, when \Ve were thundering along at
something over sixty miles an hour, a policeman jumped
from a side-turning ahead of us, signalled me to stop, and
pulled out his whistle. I was inclined to make a bolt for it,
but discretion·proved the better part of valour. The police-
man, whom we had passed by the time we could pull up,
came panting alongside.
"I'll 'ave to take your name and number, sir," he said,
and triumphantly produced a note-book. "What speed was
you doin' ?"
"Oh-er-about forty," I replied.
"Thirty-eight, Sergeant 1" interpolated my Cockey
passenger.
Butthe "Sergeant"was notto be mollified. He moistened
a blunt pencil-point and began stabbing his note-book to
some purpose. He took down my name and address, the
number of the car, the colour of my eyes and a few other
details, and stared very suspiciously at me from time to
time, as though to assure me that it was no use a-tryin' of
250 WHITE MAGIC
any of my vanishing tricks on him 1Then he put his note-
book in his breast-pocket. ,
He looked at my licence, leaned into the car to make sure
that it carried no contraband, and finally wished me a
sinister "Good morning 1"
When we drew up at the Downs, my passenger got out
and thanked me for the·lift. Then he pushed two fat wallets
into my hands, and disappeared.
One was the policeman's note-book and the other my
own pocket-book full of pound-notes 1
I can only assume that I was entertaining angels (or a
pick-pocket) unawares I
I carefully removed that page ofthe note-book that bore
incriminating details about myself and posted the remnant
in the nearest letter-box. I wondered a good deal whether
it was safe to tell this story here among my memoirs. But
if the policeman in question, who I suppose could identify
me should he ever read it, has not enough sense of humour
to keep his knowledge to himself after this lapse of years-
well, I can only pity him the reception he will get from his
superiors, and probably also from his own associates, when
he admits that he had his own note-book removed from
him, as I had my pocket-wallet removed from me, in cir-
cumstances so extremely unflattering to a man of sense and
perception, and, in his case, of Law also 1
CHAPTER XX
Magic films of the future-Theatrical production illusions-Puzzle :
find the body-A new Maskelynes' Theatre-An old name dis-
appears from magic-! meet Mr. Morton-The author vanishes
for the last time.
I HAVE brought this chronicle of the history of Maskelynes
almost up to date. The tale of the great J. N. is told, and
my father's story with it, while the account of my own
adventures making magic up and down the world has
reached almost to this year of grace.
I think that the passage of time must add a romantic
colouring to the perspective of our lives I Looking back-
ward, I can recall a hundred tales that I have had, perforce,
to leave untold, since this is one book, not a series of
volumes. Yet when I come to consider my life during the
last year or two nothing outstanding seems to have
occurred, and there is very little to tell you about it.
What have I done ? Let me see. Well, to begin with, I
have made some films, and I propose to make some more.
I am convinced that the realm of camera-magic has not yet
been properly explored. Indeed, I think that we shall see
some talkies, during the next year or so, that will provide
thrills even for the most blase of cinema-goers.
These thrills will, I hope, be largely produced by screen
magic of my own devising, and in some cases of my own
acting as well.
For instance, I am probably going to make a series of
pictures dealing with the notorious Chinese wizard, Dr.
Fu Manchu. Most of the things that this mysterious old
Oriental was able to perform, with the invaluable assistance
251
252. WHITE MAGIC
of Mr. Sax Rohmer, I can already do in the studio. And I
believe there are a few wrinkles, in the way of uncanny
disappearances, decapitations, murders, abductions and
sudden deaths, which I can offer the learned Doctor, and
which, I fancy, will be quite new even to him.
Then I hope to assist in the stage production, in the
immediate future, of a number of illusions which I have
worked out, which are not only suitable for myself, but
which might put some real pep into modern top-speed
revues.
Some of these production ideas have already been tried
out successfully. For instance, I perfected an illusion a short
time ago in which a chorus of girls could dance behind a
small screen in the middle of a stage, and immediately
emerge on the far side of the screen clad in entirely different
but just as elaborate costumes, when all the world could
see that they had not had time even for the quickest of
lightning changes of frock.
This particular illusion has been used in two or three
talkies lately, and has screened quite effectively.
]l.!st before Jack Hulbert started film work recently, he
rang me up one morning, having heard ofsome ofmy magic
tricks for revue, and arranged to lunch with me to talk
them over. As a result, we have agreed to work together
in staging a big revue-cum-illusion show in London, in
which a whole series of my tricks of production-magic will
be produced with proper effects.
In particular, I have what I believe to be an absolutely
unique idea for staging a mystery play. In this play I
propose to develop a theme to "vanish" the body of a
murdered villain in such a way that no police force on earth
could discover how or where it had gone. _
As every criminologist knows, the problem that baffles
murderers is not to commit the murder without being seen
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 2.53
or leaving evidc;nce-that is easy 1-but to get rid of the
body. I think I have settled that problem as far as magician-
murderers are concerned, anyway I
Whether I should be arrested, if I staged this play, for
giving tips to the criminal classes, I have no idea I
I have had, for some years-in fact, ever since leaving
St. George's Hall-a plan in my mind for opening another
Maskelynes' Theatre in London. I am certain that there are
just as many people, and just as many children, who are
interested in magic now as ever there were. Because magic
is part of our human make-up-there is no one so sophis-
ticated or so self-centred that he does not possess, some-
where deep down in his soul, a chord that will thrill to the
eerie touch of superstition and wonderment.
For the past two or three years I have been gradually
accumulating apparatus for my new venture. I have been
perfecting tricks-among which is the Indian Rope Trick-
too good to be risked in places where themoreunscrupulous
of my rival practitioners may possibly acquire their secrets.
Some day-perhaps some day quite soon-I hope to
open a theatre in the West End that shall adequately
carry on the traditions of Maskelyne and Cooke, and
Maskelyne and Devant.
Against that gay, I now spend every leisure moment in
my workshop, whittling away at the machinery of new
illusions, trying novel methods of staging our old tricks,
reading ancient and modem books on magic, and gradually
getting nearer and nearer to my dear ambition.
And learning-always steadily learning.
In one important particular, this plan ofmine seems self-
contradictory, even to me. For, ifI open a new Maskelynes'
Theatre in London, no one of my name will carry it on in
the next generation.
My children are not to be conjurers.
2.54 WHITE MAGIC
I sometimes wonder if I am superstitious. If I had my
life over again I would not choose to have one moment of
it altered. I have had great triumphs, great happinesses--and
great failures and sorrows, too. But, given a second chance,
I would be a magician again-the same magician, getting
sacked from the family theatre at the time when he was
really obtaining a grip on fame, going out "on the road",
meeting disaster and success, good luck and bad. I would
be a magician-but I do not want my children to follow in
the family tradition.
There is nothing wrong with the profession-indeed, I
think it offers bigger chances now than it has ever done.
But do you remember that old John Maskelyne, the Wilt-
shire farmer, whom legend says sold his soul and those of
his descendants to a certain nasty little gentleman in black
silk ? It is because of him that I shall probably be the last
Maskelyne magician.
According to this fairy-tale, which was told me first by
my grandfather, sixteenth-century John arranged in his
compact that magical powers should be possessed for ten
generations, and no more, by his descendants, in return for
John's own surrender to the powers of darkness.
Ten generations and no more I
I am the tenth generation. I am not superstitious myself,
and I don't really give a fig for either my naughty ancestor
or his grim little familiar. And yet-why fly in the face of
the legend? . . .
I know one man who, I believe, will be sorry if the
name of Maskelyne does not go on in the magic world.
I rnet him the other day, to my very great delight, and he
gave me a link, very much stronger than any legend, with
Maskelyne magic in the past. ·
I was playing in Hull, a few weeks ago, at the Alexandra
Theatre, when a Mr. William Morton sent in his name and
THE STORY OF MASKELYNES 2.55
asked to see me. I welcomed him into my dressing-room
with a warmth that I could have found for very few other
people in the theatrical world.
For Mr. Morton is ninety-eight years old now-that
same William Morton who gave my grandfather his first
real start in the provinces, long before London had ever
heard ofhim. That same Mr. Morton, in fact, who financed
young J. N. Maskelyne and his partner, little Cooke, when
no one else in the world had faith in them ; who stuck to
them and staged their turn until they stormed London itself
and made a name in magic which shall not be forgotten-
even though there are no more Maskelynes in the illusion
business-for many a generation yet to come.
And what do you think Mr. Morton had brought me as
a present ? Nothing less than that same original contract,
signed by himself, my grandfather, grandmother, and Mr.
Cooke, which made Mr. Morton the manager of the magic
show, and guaranteed his backing till success came to it.
One of the things I am looking forward to really keenly
in the future is sending Mr. Morton a telegram of
congratulation on scoring his century.
I think I have mentioned already in this history that I
foster a secret ambition to return one day to the old
sprawling farm under the wood where John Maskelyne
practised his wizardries-if he really did practise them-
and take up the ploughing and the sowing and the harvest
more or less where he left off. For what are ten generations
to the ageless, patient Wiltshire fields ?
Well, perhaps I shall still do so. When I have achieved
my ambition and rung up the curtain for the opening night
of my own London theatre, and made it a huge success ;
when I have engaged a talented company ofillusionists and
taught them how to produce all my best tricks there ; when
I feel like amusing myself for a change instead of just
WHI'I'E MAGIC
amusing other people-then I shall turn my face to the
.west, and retum to the land of dry-stone walls and grey
stone-tiled roofs and red cattle and green fields.
I shall beat my levitation apparatus into ploughshares
and-by a magical process, of course-change my stage-
eggs into reaping-hooks. Instead of the applause of the
gallery, I shall hear the piping of swallows under my eaves ;
and, where now I cause rabbits to appear out of a hat, I
shall then watch with joy the greater magic of my springing
corn.
Then, when all is ready, the theatre carrying on steadily
and successfully without my constant presence and the old
farm-house swept and garnished ready to greet its new
master, I shall perform the greatest disappearing trick of my
career.
And then-as now-my audience \Vill rub their eyes
and stare at one another and say-"Upon my soul I The
fellow's vanished 1"
THE END
INDEX
A
Alexandra, H.M. Queen, 45
Anderson, H., I 63
Australian Tour, 59
B
Bacon, Professor, SI
Barber, Alfred, u6
Beaufort, Douglas, 74
Beringer, Vera, SS
Bertram, Chas., 72., 73
Bianco, 64
Box Trick, z.6, 40, 46, 56, S4, 2.36
Burnaby, David, I65
c
Cagliostro, I6 I
Clarke, John, 4I, 43
Clive, Lord, I 2.
Coffin Trick, I 77
Colley, Archdeacon, 94
Comus I, I6I
Cooke, 14, I7, 2.4, 30, 36, 40,
46, S7
Creation Trick, 5I
D
Davenports, IS, 2.2., 2.3, 69
Davenport Box Trick, S4
Dead Hand Trick, I02.
Decapitation Trick, 36
Devant, David, SI, Sz., S5, S7, 90,
9I, 102., 107, IOS, 109, 12.7
Devil-worship, Io, 37, Ss, I 54,
2.07-2.I2 -
Disappearing Bird-cageTrick, I 67
Disappearing Hen Trick, I99
257
"Dizzy Limit" Illusion, I 77
Dunn, Finlay, 2.16
E
Edward VII, H.M. King, 45, 72,77
Ellenborough, Lord, 2.44
"Eye of a Needle" Illusion, I49
F
Fanfair, 49
Fay, Eva, 44
Ferguson, Dr. J. B., IS
Fields, Gracie, 73
Fishing Illusion, 2 3I
Foo, Ling, 2 I 5
Freak Shows, 35
G
Gammon, Barclay, 6I
General Strike (I92.6), IS9
George V, H.M. King, so, 104,
I06, 2.3 I
Ghost hunts, 1 2.2., 2.2.6, 22.9
Grafton, Glen, z.I6
Grisi, Comte de, 162
H
Hansard, J. B., 90
Heller, I61
Home, Daniel, 47
Houdin, Robert, 161, 163
Howell, Walter, 2.16
Hulbert, Jack, 252
I
Indian Rope Trick, 103, 179
Irving, Sir Henry, S9
Irish Tour, 7I
INDEX
J
Jodhpur, Maharajah of, I76
K
Kellar, Harry, 69
King, John, ghost, 47
Kolta, Bautier de, 72, I70
L
Labial, 49
Laforcade, Comte de, 65
Lascelles, Hon. Gerald, 2 32
Lawrence of Arabia, I20, I2I
Levitation Trick, 36, 39, I82
Longstaffe, Edward, 74
Lumiere, 82
Lynn, Dr., 40
M
"Magic Circle," Ioo
Malone, John, 78
Mary, H.M. Queen, xo8, 23 I, 23 5
Maskelyne, Archie, 82
Maskelyne, Cassie, 83
Maskelyne, Jasper, 87 et seq.
Maskelyne, John, Io
Maskelyne, John Nevil, I3 et seq.
Maskelyne, J. N. (inventions),
52-55, 8I, 94
Maskelyne, Margaret, 12
Maskelyne, Nevil (astronomer),
II, 160
Maskelyne, Nevil, 82 et seq.
Maskelyne, Nevil (inventions),
II4, II9, I33
Morrit, Chas., 74
Morton, William, 28, 3o-34, 38,
43, 254, 25 5
Murray, David, 88
N
"New Page" Illusion, I03
0
Oldridge, Sidney, 74
Orton (Tichborne Claimant), 84
p
Pepper, Dr., 42, I63
"Phantom Dancer" Illusion, I98
Phoenix Park murders, 72
Pinetti, I6I, I62
Plate-spinning Trick, 36, 46
Psycho, 4I
R
Royal Command Performances :
Gasper Maskelyne), Io6, 23 I,
235 ; Q. N. Maskelyne), 45, so
s
Said, Ben, 2 I 6
Sand Trick, 23I, 244
"Side Issue" Illusion, 97
Slade, Dr., 47
South African Tour, 2IS
Stuart, James, 74
Sword-swallowing Trick, I I I
Sword-walking Trick, I 8I
T
Thought-reading, I6I
Thurston, Howard, 69
Tichborne case, 84
v
Vanishing Donkey Illusion, IOS,
I46
Vanishing Lady Illusion, 73
w
"Will, the Witch and the Watch·
man," s6
Williams, Charles, 47
Windsor, Duke of, I04
Woodbridge, Lord, 244
Wylie, Julian, 93
z
