{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__inquire_within___trail_of_the_serpent.pdf","mytitle":"Trail Of The Serpent","mylang":"de"}
The Trail of the Serpent
By Inquire Within
For some years a Ruling Chief of the Mother Temple
of the Stella Matutina and R.R.etA.C.
Author of “ Light Bearers of Darkness ”
“ That which is above is like that which is below,
and that which is below is like that which is
above for the accomplishment of the wonders of
one thing.
“ Its father is the Sun ; its mother is the Moon ;
The wind beareth it in the belly thereof; the earth
is its nurse;
It is the Universal Principle, the Telesma of the
World.”
The Emerald Tablet of Hermes.
"The Serpent, inspirer of disobedience, of insub­
ordination, and of revolt, was cursed by ancient
Theocrats, although it was honoured among
initiates , . ,
To become like unto Divinity, such was the goal
of the Ancient Mysteries. . . . To-day the pro­
gramme of initiation has not changed.”
Oswald W irth—Le Livre du compagnon.
Boswell Publishing Co. Ltd.
io Essex Street, London, W.C.2
1936
Printed in the United State* of America
F O R E W O R D
F ive years ago we published Light Bearers of Darkness,
largely based on articles appearing in the Patriot from
1925 to 1930, being the result of our own experiences
and investigations into various individual secret societies,
their affiliations, their occult practices, their pseudo­
religious and political activities.
To-day, in The Trail of the Serpent,• we issue a
further instalment of these researches, built up almost
wholly from contributions to the Patriot from 1930 to
1935. Going back to Patriarchal times, we attempt to
trace, step by step, the worship of the ancient Serpent,
the Creative Principle, the God of ill initiates, from the
early Cabiri, through Paganism to the pseudo-Chris­
tianity of the Gnostics and Cabalists, these latter largely
emanating under the influence of the Hellenised Jews of
Alexandria.
We have endeavoured to prove that the aim, in the
higher grades of these varied mysteries and cults, is to
awaken Jhis serpent, the sex-force or “ God within ”
man, raising it by processes and yogic methods, uniting
it with the Universal Creative Principle without develop­
ing the latent senses or, so to say, deifying the adept, but
onlv that he mav be enslaved by some astute, outside,
and stronger mind or group of minds, who, it would
seem, seek to rule the nations through hvpnoticallv con­
trolled adepts. For one and all of these modem mys­
teries are dominated and ruled by some unknown
hierarchy, just as in the Ancient Mysteries the Egyptian
high-priests were the masters of the old world through
their knowledge and power to manipulate these invisible
serpent forces, the magnetic forces of all nature, by
means of which they bound and dominated the mystes
and even the epoptes and through them the masses.
These revolutionary mysteries first appear as pseudo-
V
VI FOREWORD
religions, until by means of some kind of seemingly reli­
gious uplift the necessary link with the master-mind is
formed. Then it becomes openly political and revolu­
tionary, subverting all aspects of the nation’s life, seeking
by internationalism and universalism to unify all peoples,
socially, economically, politically, in arts and religion,
preparing for some New Era, some New Heaven and
New Earth.
We have finally sought to materialise these invisible
masters and, allowing the Cabalists to speak for them­
selves, we arrive at the revolutionary and cabalistic Jew,
the most cosmopolitan of peoples, who look for the
Coming of their Messianic Era. To some of these the
Messiah is their race and their race is their God, the
Tetragrammaton, the Creative Principle, this Serpent
Power, binding and unifying, leading to the hope of
merging all races, all faiths under the Law of this their
Unity of Race, thus creating the “ Greater Judaism ”
spoken of by the Jewish World, 9 and 16 February, 1883.
C O N T E N T S
PAGE
F o re w o rd ........................................................................v
CHAPTER I
Sabeism. Eleusis and Mithras i
CHAPTER II
Cabalists, Gnostics, and Secret Syrian Sects . . 20
CHAPTER III
Rosicrucians and Illum ines...........................................50
CHAPTER IV
Weishaupt’s Illuminati and the French Revolution 67
c h a p t e r v
Carbonari, Mazzini, l’AHiance-israelite-universelle
and Karl Marx . . . . . . 91
CHAPTER VI
The Jewish Question . . . . . . 1 1 4
CHAPTER VII
Continental F reem asonry.........................................137
CHAPTER V III
Theosophy and India. Co-masonry . . . 170
vii
CONTENTS
PAGE
CHAPTER IX
Rudolf Steiner and Anthroposophy . . . 203
CHAPTER X
Fraternity of Inner Light and Yoga . . . 230
CHAPTER XI
Aleister Crowley and the Golden Dawn . . . 256
CHAPTER X II
American Groups...........................................................270
CHAPTER X III
Secret Societies in America, Tibet, and China . 294
CHAPTER XIV
The Synarchy of A g artth a........................................310
Index . • 319
CHAPTER I
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS
I n 1871 General Albert Pike, Grand Master of the Scot­
tish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, U.S.A., wrote in Morals
and Dogmas:
“ Among the early nations a wild enthusiasm and a sensual
idolatry of nature soon superseded the simple worship of the
Almighty God. . . . The great powers and elements of nature
and the vital principle of production and procreation through all
generations; then the celestial spirits or heavenly host, the lumin­
ous armies of the stars, and the great Sun and mysterious, ever-
changing Moon (all of which the whole ancient world regarded,
not as mere globes of light or bodies of fire, but as animated living
substances, potent over man’s fate and destinies); next the genii
and tutelar spirits, and even the souls of the dead, received divine
worship . . . the heavens, earth, and the operations of nature
were personified; the good and bad principles personified became
also objects of worship.”
Further, in New York, 15 August, 1876, at the Supreme
Council of the 33rd degree, he declared:
“ Our adversaries, numerous and formidable, will say, and
will have the right to say, that our Principe Createur is identical
with the Principe Generateur of the Indians and Egyptians, and
may fitly be symbolised as it was symbolised anciently, by the
lingae. . . . To accept this in lieu of a personal God is to abandon
Christianity and the worship of Jehovah and return to wallow in
the styes of Paganism.”
In his book, Dieu et les Dieux, 1854, Le Chevalier
Gougenot des Mousseaux gives an exhaustive account of
these many pantheistic, pagan, and phallic forms of
ancient worship. He tells us that Sahejsm thrust its
roots deep into the heart of Patriarchal traditions, per­
verting the early revelations. This Sabeism, which took
1
2 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
its name, not from the country of Saba, but from Tzaba,
an armed troop, made men bow the knee to the starry
army of the firmament; it was Stellar before it became
Solar and worshipped the Pole Star, known in Chaldea
as I.A.O., the creative principle. Somewhat later it
mingled with the more corrupt cult of Nature-Sabeism,
or the cult of the Stars and Naturalism. To follow the
gradual corruption of the early Patriarchal traditions,
the Stone is one of the surest guides, for at the time of
its splendour it was worshipped from the Empire of
China to the extreme confines of the West. It began
by being the rude block detached from the rock; it became
the column, the flange, the pedestal surmounted by first
one and later two human heads (hermaphrodite god),
and was finally shaped in the magic lines of Apollo and
Venus.
The religion of the Jews is based on revelation:
their writings and traditions say that God appeared in
diverse places to the Patriarchs and spoke to them; there
the Jews raised altars, taking the form of rude stones,
generally called Beth-el—the House of God. But soon
it was imagined that God resided in these Stones; thus it
became the Beth-aven—the House of Falsehood—entirely
material. The Beth-el abounded in Chaldea, Asia,
Egypt, Africa, Greece, even in the remotest parts of
Europe, among Druids, Gauls, and Celto-Scythians, and
in the New World, North and South. Man’s sensual
imagination soon allowed him “ to collect his gods in the
dust and fashion them as he pleased.” The Pagans
imitated the Beth-el of Jacob and consecrated them with
oil and blood, making them gods, calling them Betyles
or Both-al—Jupiter, Cybele, Venus, Mithras. The
greater part of the natural Betyles were the black
meteorites or fire-balls fallen from the heavens and
regarded by the Sabeists as heavenly divinities. These
meteorites were the Cabiri, and the Pelasgi—wandering
or dispersed men—were their most noted worshippers.
Further, in these Cabiri, even as in Sabeism, we
recognise the cult of the stars. Sabeism came from the
Principle of Unity transferred from the Invisible God to
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 3
the God of Nature, the Sun-God; then followed duality,
male-female, Sun-Moon, God-Goddess of Nature. This
passed on to multiplying-the gods by the number of the
stars, and led back to unity. For, “ soon all the stars
together were merely the God of Light, the God of
Nature, the God of Phenomena . . . everything was
emanation, each thing was God-part-of-God—Pantheism
was created!” M. Creuzer held the idea that the Cabiri
of Egypt and Phoenicia, as well as the Pelasgic Greek
Cabiri (Japhetic), are the great Planetary Divinities:
that is, the Gods of Heaven, universal gods, the many
gods in One which dominate air, earth, and the waves,
and they mingled with those of the Betyles. They were
always the seven Planets—Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun,
Venus, Mercury, and the Moon—which together with
the Earth formed the eight Cabiric Gods.
Having made the Creator the God of Matter the
God of Nature, his principal function was to produce;
therefore, the organs of generation became the symbol
of divinity. The Stone took the form of the Phallus
and the Cteis, the Lingam-Yoni of India. Thus
Naturalism uniting with the Stone of the Patriarchs
became for the learned men of idolatry the Principe
GSnerateur of all things. As the learned converted
Rabbi Drach wrote:
<
fOur fathers, sons of Sem, preserved in the sanctuary of the
Temple of Jerusalem the Beth-el Stone of Jacob, and in this Stone
they worshipped the Messiah. This cult was imitated by our
neighbours of Phoenicia, sons of Cham, who had a common lan­
guage with us. From thence spread the cult of the Stones called
Betyles or Beth-el, which the race of Japhet called also lapides
Divi, divine or living stones, and these Betyles were similar to
the animated stones of the Temple of Diana in Laodicea, mentioned
by Lampridius.”
Between the stone, tree, spring, or well a singular
and close alliance never ceased to exist; therefore,
having enclosed their gods in Stone-Betyles, they then
enclosed them in Tree-Betyles, such as the ancient Oak,
with its spring, worshipped at the Temple of Dodona,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
4
representing I.A.O.—the creative principle—and which
had its oracles and blood sacrifices. Again we find the
Betyle under the oldest form, that of the Egg, the uni­
versal germ of all things, and often along with it the
Serpent of the dual forces of life. The combined result
of all these forms was Pantheism. Man then sought to
manipulate this divinity, these dual forces, and by magic,
incantations, and evocations the people were seduced and
led astray. Further, the Cabiri, Cybele and Atys, Venus
and Adonis, Isis and Osiris, Ceres and Iacchus, were
represented in all places by the Phallus Betyle, and as the
bases of all their myths are so strikingly connected, one
cannot fail to see under the diversity of names the same
personification of Nature, celestial and terrestrial—the
Universe—therefore material god.
The most ancient of these God-Titans or Cabiri was
Axieros—Unity, the Demiurge, the Creative Principle;
from him proceeded Axiokersos-Axiokersa—duality of
the generative principles, Heaven and Earth: from this
duality came forth Cadmillus, Eros or Hermes, thus com­
pleting the Cabiric Trinity in Unity. In the more debased
forms it was the cult of the lingse and the deification of
sensual and erotic desires. Moreover, in their feasts the
passions of the people were often set on fire only to be
extinguished in orgies and bacchanalias impossible to
describe.
In the ceremonies, des Mousseaux says, the Cabiric
priests united themselves so closely with their gods that
they took their names, numbers, and attributions, and on
solemn occasions even gave up their own personality;
also if the cult demanded it, they imitated them in exact
mystic mummery. Further, General Albert Pike writes
of these Cabiri:
“ The little island of Samothrace was long the depository of
certain august Mysteries. . . . It is said to have been settled by
the ancient Pelasgi, early Asiatic colonists in Greece, the Gods
adored in the Mysteries of this island were termed Cabiri, called
by Varro, ‘ potent gods—Heaven and Earth,’ symbols of the
Active and Passive Principles of universal generation. . . . In
the ceremonies was represented the death of the youngest of the
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 5
Cabiri, slain by his brothers, who fled into Etruria, carrying with
them the ark that contained his genitals; and there the Phallus and
the sacred ark were adored.”
All these Mysteries, writes Clemens of Alexandria, dis­
playing murders and tombs, had for basis the fictitious
death and resurrection of the Sun, the life-principle.
To-day this Sabeism can be traced in all modern
Mysteries—occult and illumine. Take, for example, the
Stella Matutina, a Rosicrucian and Martinist Order, and
its 3 = 8 grade, attributed to water and in which Elohim
Tzabaoth is invoked and adored. The three chief officers
and the candidate together represent the Samothracian
Cabiric Trinity in Unity; in the ritual we read: Hiero­
phant—Thus spake Axieros, the first Cabir: “ I am the
apex of the Triangle of Flame; I am the Solar Fire pour­
ing forth its beams upon the lower world. Life giving,
light producing” (Zeus and Osiris). Hiereus—Axio-
kersos, the second Cabir: “ I am the left basal angle of
the Triangle of Flame; I am Fire, volcanic and terres­
trial, flashing, flaming through the abysses of earth; fire-
rending, fire-penetrating, tearing asunder the curtains of
matter; fire-constrained, fire-tormenting, raging, and
whirling in lurid storm ” (Pluto and Typhon). Hegemon
—Axiokersa, the third Cabir: “ I am the right basal
angle of the Triangle of Flame; I am Fire, astral and
fluid, winding and coruscating through the firmament.
I am the life of beings, the vital heat of existence ”
(Proserpine and Isis). They represent Fire or the
generating principle, acting in earth, water, and air.
The candidate is Casmillos or Cadmillus (Horus), and
receives the mystic name of “ Monokeros de Astris ”—
the “ Unicorn from the stars.” Moreover, Cabiric god-
forms, built up according to the instructions of their
mysterious Master in Mesopotamia, were astrally as­
sumed by these chief officers in the ceremony, and for
the time being they, in thought, became these gods or
nature’s forces, and like these Cabiric priests they prac­
tised theurgy and magnetic healing.
It is, therefore, interesting to find Dollinger, in
6 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Paganism and Judaism, writing of the Chaldean-Sabeist
astrologers: that these men found a support in the Stoic
philosophy which, identifying God with Nature, had come
to regard the stars as eminently divine and placed the
government of the world in the immutable course of the
heavenly bodies. These men taught that a secret force
descended uninterruptedly upon the earth; that a close
sympathy existed between the planets, the heavenly
bodies, and the earth, and with the beings who lived there.
Further, they believed man had the power to augment
the good influence or avert the evil by means of invoca­
tions and magical ceremonies. In their magical cere­
monies and conjurations, all modern secret occult orders
are said to awaken and reawaken powers by means of
invoking planetary, Zodiacal, and elemental spirits and
influences, always using the required so-called potent,
divine, or “ barbarous ” names.
D a c t y l e s , C o r y b a n t e s , a n d T e l c h i n e s
In Psychologie des sentiments, M. Ribot writes of
these more or less primitive sects:
“ History at all times abounds in physiological processes,
employed to produce artificial ecstasy . . . so to say, having
divinity within oneself. There are inferior forms, mechanical
intoxication produced by the dance, rhythmic music of primitives,
which excites them and puts them into a condition ripe for inspira­
tion. Intoxication by drugs, soma, wine, the Dionysia, the orgies
of Menades; the shedding of blood so widespread in the cults of
Asia Minor: Atys, the Corybantes, the Gauls mutilating and cut­
ting themselves with swords; in the Middle Ages the Flagellants,
and in our day the fakirs and dervishes."
Also, as found in the frenzied dances of the Khlysty and
other primitive Gnostic sects and even in the modern
Eurhythmy of Dr. Steiner’s followers, all aiming at
deification. In Les Mysteres du Paganisme, revised and
edited by Silvestre de Sacy, 1817, Sainte-Croix gives us
much valuable information on these early Mysteries. As
he says, “ There is nothing more intriguing in antiquity
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 7
than what concerns the Cabiri, Dactyles, Curetes, Cory-
bantes, and the Telchines. Designated under diverse
names, were they gods, genii, legislators or priests? . . .
They have often been mistaken the one for the other.”
No doubt it was the case of the priests assuming the
name as well as the attributions of their gods, for it is
said by the Druidic priest: “ I am a Druid, I am an archi­
tect, I am a prophet, I am a Serpent,” the Serpent being
a potent power in his cult. According to Strabo:
“ Some suppose that the Curetes are the same as the Cory-
bantes, the Dactyles of Mount Ida, and the Telchines. Others
assert that they are of the same family, with some differences. In
general they are all alike as to ecstasy, bacchic frenzy, tumult, the
noise they make with their arms, drums, flutes, and their extra­
ordinary cries during their sacred feasts . . . all had to do with
religion and was not foreign to philosophy.”
According to Sainte-Croix, the Cabiric ceremonies
took place at night, often in a cave, and all knowledge
concerning them and the gods was as an inviolable secret
hidden from the profane. The Dactyles of Asia, at times
confounded with the Cabiri, were originally Children
of Heaven and Earth, and by spells, illusions, and be­
witchments, used also in their mysteries, they won over
the people of Phrygia and Samothface, making them­
selves indispensable by practising medicine and teaching
them to work in metals. However, it is said that the
Phrygians owed their first civilisation to the Corybante
jugglers and soothsayers, who also ardently cultivated
music and the dance, so much so that their name came to
mean a kind of violent passion for these exercises which,
according to de Sacy, “ Really meant the idea of a super­
natural agitation, a divine frenzy, real or simulated,
which sends a man out of himself and leaves him no
longer master of his actions and movements. It ex­
pressed a kind of madness or ecstasy, of a divine origin,
which appears to produce effects such as those of a really
unbalanced mind.” Until the end of Paganism some­
thing of the mysteries of the Corybantes still existed.
Like the Cabiri, Dactyles, and Corybantes with
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
whom they had so many links of habit and occupation,
the Telchines were at first simple diviners, then Pelasgi
priests. To increase their numbers and power they used
the arts of illusion and sorcery accompanied with threats
of future punishments, thus enticing the people from
their mountains and forests, getting them to cultivate the
land and adopt a new religion, giving up their ancient
cult of Saturn. In time the name Telchine became
synonymous with charlatan, sorcerer, poisoner, and even
evil spirit.
8
M y s t e r ie s o f E l e u s i s
In the same book Sainte-Croix gives a long account
of the Mysteries of Eleusis which were said to go back
to 1423 b .c . ; they were of Egyptian origin, though
changed and disguised by the Greeks to cover the source
of their borrowings. Like those of the Egyptians, these
Mysteries of Eleusis were divided into the Lesser and
Greater, the Mystes and Epoptes, with about five years’
tests in between. Eusebius gives the officers as: Hiero­
phant, Father of generation, or Demiourgos; Dadoukos,
incense-bearer, representing the Sun; Epihomos, altar-
bearer, representing the Moon; Hieroceryx, the Sacred
Herald carrying the Caduceus—the twin serpents of
generation—representing Mercury. All ceremonies were
held in a secret subterranean temple, closed to the pro­
fane. Many ceremonies were practised, one of the
principal being the elevation of the Phallus, a strange
rite of Egyptian origin often spoken of by Clemens of
Alexandria, Tertullian, and others. According to
Diodorus Siculus, it was held in memory of the virile
parts of Osiris thrown into the Nile by Typhon, and
which Isis had desired should receive divine honours in
sacrifices and mysteries. It was represented in the
Greater Mysteries by the figure of the ancient fecundat­
ing Mercury—said to be the Logos, at once interpreter
and fabricator of the things that have been, that are,
and will be; the spirit of the seed, according to the
Nasseni, is the cause of all existing things, and is the
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 9
secret and unknown mystery of the universe concealed
among the Egyptians in their rites and orgies.
The women had their own Mysteries, known as
Thesmophories, from which all men, it is said, were
excluded. The members had to be virgins or legally mar­
ried women, all legitimately born. The Thesmophories
in Athens were celebrated at night during the month of
October, lasting about five days. In place of the Phallus
the women venerated the Cteis or female sex-organ, and
during the ceremonies there was a gay dance, similar to
those in Persia, where they all took hands, forming a
circle, and dancing in rhythm to the sounds of a flute.
Few details about these Mysteries were known, but all
were built upon the myth of Ceres and Proserpine.
The adventures of Ceres and Proserpine were
identical with those of Osiris and Isis. We have, there­
fore, Isis—Mouth or Mother of the world; Ceres—
Demeter, the Earth-Mother—both signifying the
fecundity of the earth. Proserpine was daughter of
Ceres and Jupiter, and we know how the myth describes
her abduction to the underworld by Pluto, her compul­
sory sojourn there for six months in the year followed by
six months above with her mother. She was symbolically
called “ the seed hidden in the earth.” Moreover, the
most learned of the Egyptian priests, according to the
philosophers, regarded Osiris as the spermatic substance,
and several assert that the burial of the God was
emblematic of the seed hidden in the bosom of the earth.
He was equally considered as the Solar force, principle
of fecundity in relation with the Moon—also Ceres and
Isis—which rules generation.
According to the subtle philosophy of the Neo-
Platonists on the origin of human souls and their emana­
tion from the soul of the world or universal life-principle,
the abduction of Proserpine by Pluto represented the
descent of the soul, leaving the higher regions, precipita­
ting itself into matter, uniting with a body. Iacchus and
Bacchus cut to pieces by the Titans was the Universal
Mind divided and scattered by generation in a multitude
of beings (pantheism), and Plato taught that the aim of
IO THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
the Mysteries was to lead back the souls to the region
above and to their primitive state of perfection from
which they had originally descended. No doubt the
secret knowledge of the priests, imparted to the few, was
the Hermetic power, personified by Mercury and his
caduceus, of acting upon man’s sex-force, raising and
uniting it to the universal life-force, their Deity,
producing a form of so-called illumination.
Christianity having spread in Greece, the priests
were obliged to become more careful in the choice of
epoptes, in case of admitting men, inclined to leave
paganism and become Christians, who might reveal the
secrets of Initiation. Therefore at the opening of the
ceremony a warning was given: “ If any atheist, Chris­
tian or Epicurean is present, witness of these Mysteries,
let him leave and allow those who believe in God to be
initiated under happy auspices.”
M y s t e r ie s o f E g y p t
In Les Sectes et Societes Secretes—political and
religious—Le Couteulx de Canteleu, 1863, remarks that
the aim of secret societies
“ as a whole was, is and will always be the struggle against the
Church and the Christian religion, and the struggle of those who
have not against those who have. . . . All secret societies have
almost analogous initiations, from the Egyptian to the Illuminati,
and most of them form a chain and give rise to others.”
Among modern Illuminati, “ The Brotherhood of
Light,” Los Angeles, California, profess to be
“ a Western Fraternity of Hermetic students who, realising
the truth of Universal Brotherhood, are devoting their energies
to the physical, mental, and spiritual uplift of Humanity. They
investigate all realms of nature that the latent and active forces
may be discovered and subjected to the Imperial Will of man.”
Their teaching is for
“ the definite purpose of reviving the Religion of the Stars—
which is a religion of natural law—as understood and taught by
the Hermetic initiates of Ancient Egypt and Chaldea.”
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS I I
The high Mason Albert Pike states: “ The seven
great primitive nations, from whom all others are
descended, the Persians, Chaldeans, Greeks, Egyptians,
Turks, Indians, and Chinese, were all originally Sabeists
and worshipped the stars.” The Chaldeans regarded
Nature as the great divinity that exercised its powers
through the action of its parts, the sun, moon, planets,
and fixed stars, the revolution of the seasons, and the
combined action of heaven and earth—that is, the cosmic
forces and the magnetic forces of the earth. Herodotus,
Plutarch, and all antiquity unanimously consider Egypt
as the origin of the Mysteries. In that anonymous book
the Canon we are told that the Egyptian priests were
practically the masters of the old world, everything and
everybody was subservient to their jurisdiction, and the
old Greek historians emphatically assert that the essential
doctrines of the Greek religion came from Egypt. The
mystical secrets of the old priests were passed from
generation to generation by initiates and mystics, and
this mysticism was synonymous with Gnosticism and was
common to Egyptian, Greek, and Hebrew.
According to Le Couteulx de Canteleu, these Egyp­
tian priests formed a Confederation of Philosophers
united to study the art of governing men and to concen­
trate on what they conceived as truth. It was composed
of three classes: (i) that of the priests who alone could
contact the gods, using illusion and oracles to impose
them upon the people; (2) that of the Greater initiates,
chosen, as were the priests, from among the Egyptians
and from whom there was nothing to conceal; (3) that
of the Lesser initiates, the greater part strangers, to
whom was confided what the Supreme Pontiffs deemed
proper to tell them. The Mysteries were directed by a
Supreme Council of five ministers, of whom the chief
was called King, Hierophant, or Sacred Orator. They
were divided into the Greater Mysteries, the Epoptes,
and the Lesser Mysteries, the Mystes; the celebration of
the Greater Mysteries was the initiation of those who
had been received into the Lesser, after having been sub­
jected to the necessary tests. According to Faber, in his
12 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Pagan Idolatry, “the epoptes were supposed to have
experienced a certain regeneration ... and were deemed to
have acquired a great increase of Light and knowledge ”
—that is, Illumination, or deification. As soon as the
priests heard of a man whose genius, talents, and worth
had gained consideration among the peoples, the Con­
federation used every possible means to attract and
initiate him, and all were made to act according to its
system and views. The knowledge of the Egyptian
priests was immense. They were fathers of astronomy
and geometry and the study of nature was familiar to
them; they had halls for botany, natural history, and
chemistry, also immense libraries where were books of
science and history and even sacred books communicated
only to initiates. Egypt was the rendezvous of all
celebrated men who sought instruction.
All these Mysteries appear to come from the same
source, having a complete cosmogony and an explanation
of the primitive nature and origin of man. Everywhere
appeared the impure genii of paganism, for all their
myths had their obscene side as well as cosmogonic, and
these nocturnal festivals were full of impure songs and
ceremonies. The Initiate was first subjected to horrifying
trials by darkness, fire and water, long fasts, visions,
etc., and if he surmounted these and remained sane,
which many did not, he was received among the priests.
Hallucination was one of the great methods of Egyptian
theurgy; burnt opium, datura, henbane, hasheesh, cinna­
mon, and laurel formed these vapours, which caused the
frenzy of the pythoness or initiate.
“ The ideas of mystery, of magic, the invocation of the dead
and of the spirits were so powerful at that time that the minds of
the wisest could not resist them, the greatest geniuses and great
philosophers came to be initiated. But the epicurean negation
and the stoic pantheism mixed with the Mysteries of Ceres . . .
the poetry of religion which they invoked gradually disappeared,
their beautiful dreams became sinister pantheism, the elements
were the only true gods, and the poetic visions of the night of
initiation gradually vanished, leading the initiate to scepticism.”
As Le Couteulx de Canteleu continues, generation
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 13
was the basis of all Mysteries. In the whole universe, to
be born, to die, and reproduce its kind, such is the law im­
posed upon all that exists. It is a perpetual rotation of
creation, destruction, and regeneration, and that was the
basis and origin of all ancient mythologies and religions.
The Egyptians, says Diodorus Siculus, acknowledge
two great gods, the Sun and Moon, or Osiris and Isis;
through them the generation of beings is effected. All
nature is maintained by them in combination with their
five qualities—ether, fire, air, water, and earth. Or as
Le Couteulx de Canteleu explains, five distinct principles
unite in the generation of beings: (1) The Cause—the
father, active principle, male, creator; represented among
the ancients by the Sun, fire, Osiris, father of light;
symbolised by Ptah of the Egyptians, the triangle, and
the pyramid. (2) The Subject—the mother, matter,
female, passive nature, represented by water. It is
Nature adored among all peoples under many forms: the
Moon, Cybele, Venus, Ceres, and Isis of the Egyptians.
(3) The Intermediary—the seed, ether, the vital fluid,
the instrument of reproduction; represented by the
Phallus or air, the spirit of life, the magnetic fluid of the
Sun, Eros, Bacchus, Hercules, Hermes, and Thoth of
the Egyptians. (4) The Effect—fertilisation, producing
fermentation, putrefaction, disintegration, out of which
comes life; it is represented by Earth, the mother of all
bodies, and in which vegetables and minerals develop.
(5) The Result—the creation of a new life destined to
reproduce its kind; it is ether, the fifth element, the Horus
of the ancients, the Blazing Star of the Freemasons, the
pentagram, the deified adept.
Initiation, illumination, or deification means fixa­
tion of the ether or astral light in a material basis, by
dissolution, sublimation, and fixation, the work being
accomplished in conformity with its principle reproducing
the said principle. Therefore, among subversives these
principles of generation or regeneration are applied to
religious, political, social, moral, and mental life. As
the cabalist says: “ The formulate must first become un­
formulate ere it can reformulate in new conditions ”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
(death and disintegration); or as the revolutionary puts
it: “ Everything must be destroyed since everything must
be renewed.” In Illuminism the adept’s personality must
be killed out and a new being formed—the controlled
tool by fixation of the astral light, the etheric link!
Mr. H. P. Cooke, in his study of Osiris, when
speaking of Amen or Amoun says: “ The word or root
Amen certainly means ‘what is hidden ’ . . . and has
reference to something more than the *sun which has
disappeared below the horizon ’; one of the attributes
applied to him was that of eternal. He looks much like
the source of all life.”
Now Albert Pike tells us that Amun or Amoun, the
God of Lower Egypt, was “ the celestial Lord who sheds
light on hidden things.” “ He was the source of that
divine life of which the crux ansata is the symbol, the
source of all power. . . . He was the Light, the Sun-
God.” The crux ansata was the Egyptian symbol of
life, the dual forces of generation in all things.
As a further elucidation of these Egyptian Mys­
teries, let us turn to the modern Rosicrucian Order of
the Stella Matutina and its Inner Order of the R.R. et
A.C. In the initiation ceremony of the S.M. the Hiero­
phant on the Dais, in the East, represents Osiris; his
power, represented by the colours of his lamen—red and
green—is “ as the blazing light of the fire of the Sun
bringing into being the green vegetation of the otherwise
barren earth.” Also by its symbol, the calvary cross
with the rose in the centre, “ it represents the power of
self-sacrifice requisite to be attained by him who would
be initiated into the sacred Mysteries.” He is Osiris of
the Nether Land. Again, Hiereus in the West is Horus,
the avenger of the Gods; he is Guardian of the Mysteries
against those who dwell in darkness. The four elements,
the “ living creatures ” of Ezekiel’s vision, the lion, bull,
man, and eagle, represent the Sphinx. Their vicegerents
are the Children of Horus—Amset, south; Hapi, north;
Taumutef, east; Qebhsennuf, west. Further, the S.M.
Mystic Repast represents communion in the body of
Osiris, and when inverting the cup at the end, the Kerux
14
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 1 5
—Anubis, the Watcher of the Gods—cries aloud: “ It
is finished,” regeneration through self-sacrifice is accom­
plished. Finally, in the Inner Initiation after rising
from the tomb, the Chief Adept declaims: “ I am the
Sun in its rising. I have passed through the hour of
cloud and of night. I am Amoun, the Concealed One,
the Opener of the Day. I am Osiris On-nopheris, the
Justified One. I am the Lord of Life triumphant over
death. There is no part of me that is not of the gods.”
The Concealed One, or the “ hidden god ” within man,
is the ljundalini, and by its union with the universal life-
force the adept is said to become one with the gods. As
Lepsius said: “ When freed from the body thou wilt
ascend to the free ether, thou wilt be an immortal God
escaped from death.”
Now, the R.R. et A.C. ritual tells us that the gods
represent a certain symbolical material action of Nature’s
Forces, and all magical ceremonies are for the purpose
of attracting the Solar Forces and the Light of Nature,
using them for a given purpose, in the case of initiation,
freeing the bewitched or “ hidden god ” within man. It
is entirely pantheistic, and as we know, the ancient Magi
considered the Sun to be the great magnetic well of the
universe. Through their deep and secret knowledge of
these forces the priests of Egypt might become masters
of the old world even as to-day some mysterious hier­
archy working behind and through all modern mysteries
is seeking to unite and dominate mankind by means of
the same secret knowledge.
In Morals and Dogma, Albert Pike tells us that
Apuleius represents Lucius, still in the form of an ass,
addressing his invocations to Isis, who is Ceres, Venus,
Diana, and Proserpine, substituting, as the Moon, her
quivering light for the bright rays of the Sun.
Addressing Lucius, Isis says:
“ The parent of Universal nature attends thy call. The
mistress of the elements, initiative germ of generations. . . . She
governs with her nod the luminous heights of the firmament, the
salubrious breezes of the ocean;' the silent deplorable depths of
the shades below; one Sole Divinity under many forms, wor-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
shipped by the different nations of the Earth under many titles,
and with various religious rites.”
Describing the Initiation into the Mysteries of Isis,
Apuleius continues:
“ I approached the abode of death; with my foot I pressed
the Threshold of Proserpine’s Palace. I was transported through
the elements and conducted back again. At midnight I saw the
bright light of the Sun shining. I stood in the presence of the
Gods, the Gods of Heaven and of the Shades below; I stood near
and worshipped.”
Osiris he calls “the Great God, Supreme Parent of
all the other Gods, the invincible Osiris. . . . ”
In the 6 = 5 grade of the R.R. et A.C., the adept is
ceremonially buried in the tomb, passes into a trance with
its inevitable visions, is awakened by the Shekinah,
veiled, with the crescent moon upon her forehead, who,
holding aloft a lighted lamp, says: “ Arise, shine, for
thy light has come and the Glory of thy Lord is upon
thee.” It is Illumination or Initiation, a power to be
used, not for the adept’s self, but to be placed at the
service of his unknown Lord and Master.
M i t h r a i s m
After the rise of Zoroastrianism—sometimes called
the faith of Ormuzd or Mazdaism—Mithras, a Persian
God of Light, took his place between Ormuzd and
Ahriman or Pluto of the Persians—the eternal Light
and the eternal Darkness—to aid, it is said, in the
destruction of evil and administration of the world. He
was the god of vegetation, the god of generation and
increase, and was accepted in the official religion of
Persia. He was also regarded as mediator between
humanity and the unknowable God, who reigned in the
ether. His cult spread, with the Empire of Persia,
throughout Asia Minor, and Babylon was an important
centre; it grew in strength following the conquests of
Alexander. The beginning of its downfall was about
16
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 17
a .d . 275, but it still survived in the fifth century. It
was modified in Asia by contact with the Chaldean star-
worshippers, who identified Mithras with Shamash God
of the Sun, and by the Greeks of Asia, who looked upon
him as Helios. It was not until the end of the first
century that it gained ground in Rome, where both its
politics and philosophy helped its success. Hadrian,
however, prohibited these Mysteries in Rome because of
the cruel human sacrifices accompanying some of their
rites, when future events were divined in the entrails.
Nevertheless, they reappeared under Commodus, and
spread even to Britain.
Mithraic legend, theology, and symbology have been
reconstructed by Franz Cumont in his Textes et monu­
ments figures relatifs aux mysteres de Mithra, 1896.
The legend, as shown on these famous Mithraic reliefs,
also described by Sainte-Croix, is briefly: Born of a rock,
Mithras ate of the fruit of a fig tree and clothed himself
with its leaves. The relief shows Mithras’s adventures
with the sacred bull, created by Ormuzd; he seized the
animal by the horns, was carried along until, subduing
it, he finally dragged it into a cavern, and by order of
the Sun-God sacrificed it. The central relief represents
Mithras with flowing garments and Phrygian cap,
slaying the sacred bull; the bull sacrificed to bring forth
terrestrial life. The scorpion attacking its genitals was
sent by Ahriman from the lower world to destroy the
generative power, and so prevent fertility; the dog
springing towards the wound in the bull’s side was
venerated by the Persians as Mithras’s companion; the
serpent is the symbol of the earth made fertile by drink­
ing the blood of the sacrificial bull. The raven who
directs Mithras is the Herald of the Sun-God who
ordered the sacrifice; various plants near the bull and
heads of wheat symbolise the fruitful result. The torch-
bearers represent one in three aspects: the sun at the
vernal and autumn equinoxes and the summer solstice,
the renewal of nature and its fecundity. The Mithraic
Mysteries were celebrated at the winter solstice—“ the
day of the Nativity of the Invincible.”
2
i8 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
The cave or artificial grotto used in their initiations
represented the Universe, that is, the seven planets,
twelve signs of the Zodiac, four elements, etc., for the
science of the Mysteries had intimate connection with
astrology and physics; further, the mystic symbolic Egg
represented their dualism of Light and Darkness, Good
and Evil, Night and Day, negative and positive. A text
of St. Jerome and inscriptions preserve the knowledge of
the seven degrees of initiation. The ladder of seven
planets represents, they say, the seven stages by which
man descended into matter and through which he must
return to the ether and illumination. According to
Celsus the order of return is: Saturn, Venus, Jupiter,
Mercury, Mars, Moon, Sun, thus differing from the
cabalistic system, which is from Earth to Moon, Mer­
cury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. The
Mithraic degrees were: (i) Raven, the servant of the
Sun; (2) Occult or veiled; (3) Soldier, the warfare
against evil in service of Mithras; (4) Lion, the element
of fire; (5) Persian, clothed in Asiatic dress; (6) Helio-
dromus, courier of the Sun. Pater or father—Patres
Sacrorum, directors of the cult.
In the first three degrees they were servants only.
In the first an oath of secrecy was taken, preceded by
purification and fasts. In the Soldier degree, according
to Tertullian, the myste was marked or branded on the
forehead with a Tau. In the Lion and Persian honey
was applied to hands and tongue. There was also a
mystic communion of consecrated bread and water; later
wine possibly replaced the soma used in similar rites of
Mazdaism. In the higher degrees, among participants, the
effects of drinking the sacred wine, the manipulation of
the light in the crypt, the administration of the oath, and
the repetition of sacred formulae all contributed to induce
a state of ecstatic exaltation. Springett, in his Secret
Sects of Syria, speaks of lustrations with fire, water,
and honey, and after many tests ending with a fast of
fifty days’ continuance, spent in perpetual silence and
solitude. “ If the candidate escaped partial or complete
insanity, an occurrence of great frequency, and sur-
SABEISM. ELEUSIS AND MITHRAS 19
mounted the trials of his fortitude, he was eligible for
the superior degrees.” Yarker, in his Arcane Schools,
tells us that in some of the Mithraic monuments Mithras
appears with a torch in each hand, whilst a flaming sword
issues out of his mouth; in others he has a man on each
side, one holding a flaming torch upwards, the other
holding it reversed. The latter might represent their
principles of Light and Darkness; the flaming sword is
also a symbol among modern Rosicrucian and Cabalistic
sects, where, on the Cabalistic Tree of Life, Adam Kad-
mon, the Logos, is depicted with the flaming sword
issuing out of his mouth; it is the astral light, which can
slay or make alive, set in motion by a powerful will and
a trained adept controlling it.
In these Mysteries, therefore, we again see the cult
of nature and generation applied to the so-called re­
generation of man, mental illumination through the action
of the astral light, which in many cases leads to illusion,
fanaticism, and at times even madness.
CHAPTER II
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN
SECTS
A v a l u a b l e series of articles on subversive movements
throughout the centuries, The Anatomy of Revolution,
by G. G., better known as “ Dargon,” author of The
Nameless Order, was published by the Patriot, October
1922. In one of these he writes:
“ For centuries there have existed certain esoteric schools of
mystical philosophy originating apparently in several Oriental cur­
rents of thought meeting in the Levant, Egypt, and the nearer East.
We find in these schools elements of Buddhism, Zoroastrianism
and Egyptian occultism mingled with Grecian mysteries, Jewish
Kabalism, and fragments of ancient Syrian cults. Out of the
hotch-potch of Oriental philosophy, magic, and mythology arose
in the earlier centuries of the Christian era numerous Gnostic
sects, and after the rise of Mohammedanism, several heretical sects
among the followers of Islam—such as the Ismaelites, Druses, and
Assassins—which found their inspiration *in the House of Wisdom
in Cairo. To the same sources may be traced the ideas that
inspired such political-religious movements of the Middle Ages as
those of the Illuminati, Albigenses, Cathari, Waldenses, Trouba­
dours, Anabaptists, and Lollards. To the same inspirations must
be assigned the rise of early secret societies. The Templars are
said to have been initiated by the Assassins into anti-Christian and
subversive mysteries, and we find similar traces of an old and
occult origin in the Alchemists, the Rosicrucians, and the later mys­
tical cults of which the Swedenborgian is a familiar example.”
Further, Albert G. Mackay, Secretary-General of the
Supreme Council 330 for the Southern Jurisdiction,
U.S.A., writes in his Lexicon of Freemasonry:
“ The Kassideans or Assideans . . . arose either during the
Captivity or soon after the restoration. . . . The Essenians were,
however, undoubtedly connected with the Temple (of Solomon),
20
21
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS
as their origin is derived by the learned Scaliger, with every
appearance of truth, from the Kassideans, a fraternity of Jewish
devotees, who, in the language of Laurie, had associated together
as *Knights of the Temple of Jerusalem.’ . . . From the Essen-
ians Pythagoras derived much, if not all, of the knowledge and
the ceremonies with which he clothed the esoteric school of his
philosophy.”
He also says that Pythagoras met the Jews at Babylon,
where he visited during the Captivity, and, Oliver says,
“ was initiated into the Jewish system of Freemasonry.”
Of the Cabala Mackay writes:
C a b a l a
“ The Cabal is of two kinds—theoretical and practical—with
the practical Cabala, which is engaged in the construction of talis­
mans and amulets, we have nothing to do. The theoretical is
divided into the literal and dogmatic. The dogmatic is nothing
more than the summary of the metaphysical doctrine taught by
the Cabalist doctors. It is, in other words, the system of the
Jewish philosophy.”
Writing of the Sepher Yetsirah, which is older than
the Zohar, Adolphe Franck in his book La Kabbale, 1843,
says:
" The clouds with which the imagination of commentators
have surrounded it will dissipate of themselves if, instead of
seeking in it, as they did, mysteries of ineffable wisdom, we merely
see an effort of reason, at the moment of awakening, to perceive
the plan of the universe and the link which attaches all elements
to a common principle, the assemblage of which it offers to us.”
It represents and expounds the thirty-two paths on the
Cabalistic Tree of Life—the ten Sephiroth or centres of
light, united together by the twenty-two paths to which
the Hebrew letters are attributed, these being looked upon
as potent forces. These letters are divided into: three
Mother letters—shin, fire; mem, water; aleph, air; seven
double letters, attributed to the planets; twelve single
letters, attributed to the signs of the Zodiac. And above,
uniting all, is the spirit or ether. By some it is said to
22 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
depict the descent of the soul into matter and its return
and union with the universal life-force, producing
illumination, ecstasy, deification, and similar conditions.
As to the Cabalistic God, he is first Ain—negative; then
Ain Soph—limitless space; finally, Ain Soph Aur—
boundless light. The negative God was awakened, he
became active. Again, Jehovah, the Jewish Tetragram-
maton, so greatly used in cabalistic and magical opera­
tions, is Yod, He, Vau, He, the Creative Principle in
unity—the father, mother, son, and daughter or material
basis, sometimes called the bride. As it is said: the
Absolute Being and Nature have one name only, which
signifies God; it represents all forces of nature. In crea­
tion first, they say, there was merely emanation, like the
sparks flying from an anvil, but being unbalanced they all
vanished, as did the Edomite kings; then the dual sexes
appeared as separate forces, and with them came balanced
creation.
Franck holds that the Zohar or Book of Light, the
genesis of the light of nature, begins where the Sepher
Yetzirah left off. From the cabalistic point of view the
Absolute is called the White Head, for all colours are
mingled in its light. He is the Ancient of Days or first
Sephira on the Cabalistic Tree of Life, he is the Supreme
head, the source of all light, the principle of all wisdom
—unity. From this unity issues two parallel but ap­
parently opposed principles, though in reality inseparable;
the male, active, called Wisdom, the other, passive, female,
the Understanding, for “ all that exists, all that has been
formed by the Ancient of Days can only exist through a
male and a female.” The Ancient of Days, compared
by Franck to Ormuzd of the Persians, is the father
engendering all things by means of the marvellous paths,
by which the force spreads throughout the universe,
imposing a form and limits on all that exists. Under­
standing is the mother, receiving and reproducing. From
their mysterious and eternal union issues a son, having
the traits of father and mother, thus bearing witness to
both. This son is knowledge and science. These three
persons enclose and unite all that is and in turn are
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 23
united in the White Head. They are sometimes shown
as three heads forming one, sometimes they are compared
to the brain which, without losing its unity, is divided
into three parts, and by means of thirty-two pairs of
nerves acts throughout the body, the microcosm, just as*
aided by the thirty-two paths of wisdom, divinity is
diffused throughout the universe, the macrocosm. It also
represents three successive and absolutely necessary
phases in universal generation.
Quoting Corduero, Franck continues: The first
three Sephiroth—Crown, Kether; Wisdom, Chokmah;
Understanding, Binah—should be considered as the
Three in One, for they are the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost or mother. The other seven Sephiroth of con­
struction develop also in trinities, in each of which two
extremes are united by a third. The second trinity is:
Mercy, Chesed, male; Severity, Geburah, female, that is,
expansion and concentration of will. These are united
by Beauty, Tiphareth, or the Sun, the trinity represent­
ing moral force. The third trinity is purely dynamic,
showing divinity as the universal force, the Principe
Generateur of all beings; it is Victory, Netzach, female;
Splendour, Hod, male; meaning the extension and multi­
plication of all forces in the universe. These again are
united by Foundation, Yesod, the Moon, and are repre­
sented by the organs of generation, root of all that is.
The tenth Sephira is Malkuth, the Kingdom or material
basis, in which is found the permanent and immanent
action of the united Sephiroth, the real presence of God
in the midst of creation as expressed by the Shekinah.
The work of the Sun and Moon is to spread and per­
petuate by their union the work of creation. The third
trinity is the kundalini or caduceus, and by mysticism and
yoga it is awakened, and rises through the Sephiroth to
the Crown, the source of all light, uniting with the
universal Creative Principal. Thus, according to the
Cabala, every form of existence from matter to eternal
wisdom is a manifestation of this infinite power. It is
not sufficient that all things should come from God in
order to have reality and continuance; it is also necessary
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
24
that God should be always present in the midst of them,
that he should live, develop, and eternally reproduce to
infinity under these forms. The Cabala is, therefore,
entirely pantheistic.
Of its origin Franck writes: “ When examining the
Zohar, seeking some light on its origin, one is not slow
to perceive in its inequality of style, want of unity in its
exposition, method, and application of general principles,
and finally in its detailed thought, that it is quite impos­
sible to attribute it to one person.” It rises to great
heights, but again sinks to great puerilities, ignorance,
and superstition. “ We are therefore forced to conclude
that it was formed successively during several centuries
and by the work of several generations of cabalists.” He
points to three fragments forming in themselves, unlike
the rest, a co-ordinate whole: (1) the Book of Mystery,
considered the most ancient; (2) the Greater Assembly,
the discourses of Rabbi Simon ben Jochai, about a .d . 160,
in the midst of his ten disciples 5(3) the Lesser Assembly,
where Simon, on his death-bed, gave instruction to his
disciples, now reduced by death to seven. In these is
found, sometimes in allegorical, sometimes in metaphy­
sical, language a description of the divine attributes and
their various manifestations, the origin of the world and
God’s relations with man.
Some declare that the Cabala was only developed
towards the end of the thirteenth century, but Adolphe
Franck holds that, according to proofs which he gives, it
must have originated during the seventy years of Jewish
Captivity in Babylon, and therefore owes much to the
ancient religions of Chaldea and Persia. There, under
civil and religious authority, the chiefs of the Captivity
built the Synagogue of Babylon, which united with that
of Palestine, and many religious schools were founded, in
which finally the Talmud of Babylon was produced, the
last and complete expression of Judaism. All chrono-
logists, Jewish and Christian, agree that the first deliver­
ance of Israel, captives in Chaldea from the time of
Nebuchadnezzar, took place, led by Zorobabel, during
the early years of Cyrus’s reign over Babylon, about
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 25
536-530 b ,c . Zoroaster had already commenced his
religious mission, teaching the doctrine of dualism—
Light and Darkness, Good and Evil, in 549 b .c ., fourteen
years before the first return of the captive Israelites to
their own country, and no doubt they carried with them
the imprint of this teaching. Apparently no other nation
exercised such close influence over the Jews as Persia
and the religious system of Zoroaster with its long
traditions.
The Practical or Magical Cabala with, its combina­
tions and correspondences was the astrological, magical,
and magnetic basis used by the Alchepiists and Magicians
of the Middle Ages in working their transmutations and
conjurations. It was impregnated with the “ fluidic
magic ” derived from very ancient cults, and still prac­
tised at the time of the Captivity among the Persians and
Chaldeans. To-day, all Rosicrucians and cabalistic sects
use this Magical Cabala for their works of divining,
clairvoyance, hypnotic and magnetic healing, making of
talismans, and contacting their mysterious masters. As
the Jewish writer Bernard Lazare said: “ Secret societies
represented the two sides of the Jewish mind, practical
rationalism and pantheism, that pantheism which, meta­
physical reflection of the belief in One God, ended at
times in cabalistic theurgy.”
CABALISTS AND GNOSTICS
Albert Pike, in Morals and Dogmas, tells us that,
after the intermingling of different nations, which re­
sulted from the wars of Alexander, the doctrines of
Greece, Egypt, Persia, and India met and intermingled
everywhere. Gnosis, he says, is the science of the
mysteries handed down from generation to generation
in esoteric traditions.
“ The Gnostics derived their leading doctrines and ideas from
Plato and Philo, the Zend-avesta, the Kabalah, and the Sacred
books of India and Egypt; and thus introduced into the bosom
of Christianity the cosmological and theosophical speculations,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
26
which had formed the larger portion of the ancient religions of the
Orient, joined to those of the Egyptian, Greek, and Jewish doc­
trines, which the Neo-Platonists had equally adopted in the Occi­
dent. . . . It is admitted that the cradle of Gnosticism is probably
to be looked for in Syria and even in Palestine. Most of its
expounders wrote in that corrupted form of the Greek used by the
Hellenistic Jews . . . and there was a striking analogy between
their doctrines and those of the Judseo-Egyptian Philo of Alexan­
dria; itself the seat of three schools, at once philosophic and
religious—the Greek, the Egyptian, and the Jewish. Pythagoras
and Plato, the most mystical of the Grecian philosophers (the
latter heir to the doctrines of the former), and who had travelled,
the latter in Egypt, and the former in Phoenicia, India, and Persia,
also taught the esoteric doctrine. . . . The dominant doctrines of
Platonism were found in Gnosticism. . . .
“ The Jewish-Greek School of Alexandria is known only by
two of its chiefs, Aristobulus and Philo, both Jews of Alexandria
in Egypt. Belonging to Asia by its origin, to Egypt by its
residence, to Greece by its language and studies, it strove to show
that all truths embedded in the philosophies of other countries
were transplanted thither from Palestine. Aristobulus declared
that all the facts and details of the Jewish Scriptures were so many
allegories concealing the most profound meanings, and that Plato
had borrowed from them all his finest ideas. Philo, who lived a
century after him, following the same theory, endeavoured to
show that the Hebrew writings, by their system of allegories,
were the true source of all religions and philosophical doctrines.
According to him, the literal meaning was for the vulgar alone.
. . . The Jews of Syria and Judea were the direct precursors of
Gnosticism; and in their doctrines were ample Oriental elements.
These Jews had had with the Orient, at two different periods,
intimate relations, familiarising them with the doctrines of Asia
and especially of Chaldea and Persia. . . . Living nearly two-
thirds of a century, and many of them long afterward, in Mesopo­
tamia, the cradle of their race; speaking the same language, and
their children reared with those of the Chaldeans, Assyrians,
Medes, and Persians, they necessarily adopted many of the
doctrines of their conquerors . . . and these additions to the old
doctrine were soon spread by the constant intercourse of commerce
into Syria and Palestine. . . .
“ From Egypt or Persia the new Platonists borrowed the
idea, and the Gnostics received it from them, that man, in his
terrestrial career, is successively under the influence of the Moon,
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 2 7
Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, until he finally
reaches the Elysian Fields.”
This latter teaching in one form or another is to be found
in all modern Gnostic and Cabalistic sects. Thus, in the
Stella Matutina Outer and Inner Orders, the grades are
placed on the Cabalistic Tree of Life, and the candidate
is said to pass successively under the influence of these
planets in the above sequence, until at 10 = 1, the highest
grade, he becomes illuminised, and is no longer his own
master. These influences represent in their colours the
spectrum of the so-called “ Divine White Brilliance ”—
electro-magnetic fluid—of the Rosicrucians, which adepts
are taught to draw down upon themselves and project
for magical purposes. As Albert Pike says:
“ The sources of our knowledge of the kabalistic doctrines are
the books of Yetzirah and Zohar, the former drawn up in the
second century, and the latter a little later; but they contain
materials much older than themselves. . . . In them, as in the
teachings of Zoroaster, everything that exists emanates from a
source of infinite Light.”
J e w i s h S c h o o l o f A l e x a n d r i a
“ The Brotherhood of Light,” California, of whom
we have already written, claim that “ this venerable
Order gave the impetus to learning in Alexandria which
made that city so justly famous.” And again, “ It was
the Brotherhood of Light who preserved the taper of
learning from complete extinction during the Dark
Ages.” It is therefore interesting to find Dion Fortune,
head of the “ Fraternity of Inner Light,” when writing
of Hermeticism saying:
“ The highest development was in the Egyptian and Cabalistic
systems, and it was blended with Christian thought in the schools
of the Neo-Platonists and the Gnostics. . . . Its studies were
only kept alive during the Dark Ages among the Jews who were
the chief exponents of its Cabalistic aspect . . . and it is still alive
to-day.”
28 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Now the Mason Springett tells us in his book, Secret
Sects of Syria, that
“ in later times Gnosis was the name given to what Porphery
calls Antique and Oriental Philosophy to distinguish it from the
Grecian systems. But the term was first used (according to
Matter) in its ultimate sense of supernal and celestial (cosmic)
knowledge, by the Jewish philosophers of the celebrated Alex­
andrian School. A very characteristic production of this Jewish
Gnosis has come down to our time in the Book of Enoch, of
which the main subject is to make known the description of the
heavenly bodies and their correct names are revealed to the
Patriarch by the angel Uriel. This profession betrays of itself
the Magian source from which the inspiration was derived.”
In Le Probleme Juif, Georges Batault writes of
these Alexandrian Jewish Philosophers, that they were
ardent propagandists, eager to make proselytes, and for
this purpose endeavoured to adapt Judaism to Hellenism,
persuaded that without the Law and without Israel to
practise it, the world would cease to be, the world would
be happy only when subject to this universal Law, that
is, to the empire of the Jew. As the Jewish writer
Bernard Lazare admitted in L*.Antisemitisme:
“ From Ptolemy Philadelphus until the middle of the third
century the Alexandrian Jews, with the object of maintaining
and strengthening their propaganda, devoted themselves to an
extraordinary work of falsification of real texts as a support for
their cause. The verses of ^Eschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, of
the pretended Oracles of Orpheus, preserved in Aristobulus and
the Stromata of Clemens of Alexandria, thus celebrated the One
God and the Sabbath. Historians were falsified, still more they
attributed entire works to them, and it is thus that they placed
a History of the Jews under the name of Hecatee d’Abdere.
The most important of these inventions was that of the Sibylline
Oracles, fabricated entirely by the Alexandrian Jews, which an­
nounced the future era, when the reign of One God would
eventuate. The Jews even attempted to ascribe to themselves
Greek literature and philosophy. In a commentary on the Penta­
teuch which Eusebius has preserved to us, Aristobulus endeav­
oured to show how Plato and Aristotle had found their meta-
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 2g
physical and ethical ideas in an old Greek translation of the
Pentateuch.”
Georges Batault continues:
“ The exegesis which consists in distorting texts in order to
bring out of them what they desired is the only ‘ science ’ which
can be traced to the Jews. It became in the hands of the Judaeo-
Alexandrians, a formidable arm which, by the perfidious force
of their veiled lies, enrolled Hellenism, in spite of itself, into the
service of the exclusivism and the religious proselytism of the
Israelites. The attempt to ‘ Judaise ’ Hellenism, which to-day
appears to us so perfectly absurd and disastrous, has had, never­
theless, the result of obscuring the intelligence of humanity for
hundreds of years.”
The Italian Mason Reghellini de Schio, writing in
1833, says:
“ Alexandria, newly built, was colonised by the Jews, who
came in crowds to people the new town. The result was a mix­
ture of men of different nations and religions, who gave rise to
several philosophical and religious associations. Platonism was
publicly taught by the Greeks in Alexandria, it was eagerly re­
ceived by the Alexandrian Jews, who communicated it to the
Jews of Judea and Palestine. . . . In Egypt and Judea, before
the commencement of Christianity the philosophy of Pythagoras
and Plato had thrust deep roots among the Jews, which gave
rise to the dogmas of the Essenes, Therapeuts, Sadducees, Car-
pocratians, Cabalistic-Gnostics, Basilideans, and Manichseans; all
these dogmatists adapted part of the doctrine of the Egyptian
Magi and Priests to the above philosophy. They spread in time
into Asia, Africa, and Europe. These different Jewish-Christians
preserved the mysteries of the Temple of Solomon with the
allegory of the Grand Architect, who was the Jewish Messiah,
an idea still preserved by the Jew to-day.”
As des Mousseaux notes, the Gnostics and Manichseans
preserved the cabala of this primitive Masonry, of which
a branch has thrust deep roots among the Druses, and
when the Crusaders inundated Asia, they infected the
ancestors of our Freemasonry with it—the Templars, the
Rose-Croix, and the organs of Western Occultism.
30 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
M a n ic h a e a n s
The Manichaeans taught both Pantheism and
Dualism—good and evil, light and darkness; the imman­
ence in all living things of their God, the Creative Prin­
ciple with its negative and positive aspects. According
to Matter, the Carpocratians were the most universal
communists; their theory was: “ Nature reveals the two
Great Principles, community and unity of all things.
Human laws contrary to natural laws are guilty violations
of the legitimate and divine order; therefore, to re­
establish this order, it is necessary to institute com­
munity of lands, goods, and women.” Further, Manes
disavowed war even when waged from just motives, and
his followers condemned political and civil magistrates
as created and established by the Evil God. Manes like­
wise condemned all possession of houses, land, or money.
Finally, both Gnostics and Manichaeans were noted for
their disordered morals. Manes proscribed marriage
whilst allowing its pleasures, some excused themselves,
saying, “ to the pure all is pure.” According to Baronius,
the Manichaeans seduced men by sublime words and great
promises, and entrapped their unfortunate victims in such
powerful nets that once caught it was almost impossible
to get free. The disciples bound themselves by the most
inviolable oath to keep the secrets of the sect. They were
allowed to swear and perjure themselves, but never to
reveal the secrets, according to their celebrated maxim:
Jura, perjura secretum prodere noli.
One of the outcomes of Mithraism was Manichaeism,
which derived its name from Manes, said by some to be
Cubricus, a Persian slave and scholar, and others main­
tain that he was educated by his father at Ctesiphon, was
brought up in the religion of the “ Baptists ” of Southern
Babylon, who were connected with the Mandeans, and
later travelled much and far, including China and India,
spreading his beliefs. Opposed by dominant Magian
priests, he was eventually crucified. Manichaeism was
an uncompromising system of dualism in the form of a
fantastic philosophy of nature entirely materialistic. It
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 3 1
is a conflict between Light and Darkness, Good and Evil,
male and female; darkness sought to bind men by sen­
suality, light tried to save them through the knowledge
of Nature and her forces. Manes had no “ redeemer,”
only a physical and gnostic process of redemption, free­
ing the spark of light from darkness or matter, that is,
from within man’s body, returning it to the universal
light. In this we have the whole basis of modern Caba­
listic and Gnostic sects.
M. de Beausobre, in his Histoire Critique de
Manichee et du Manicheisme, 1734, thus summarised this
system: Manes claimed authority as Apostle and Prophet
of Jesus Christ directly enlightened by the “ Paraclete,”
in order to reform all religions and reveal those truths to
the world which had been withheld from the first dis­
ciples. He rejected the Old Testament and reformed
the New. Denying the inspiration of the Hebrew
Prophets, he opposed to them the books of Seth, Enoch,
and other Patriarchs, said to be truths received from
good angels. This so-called wisdom still exists in books
and schools of Oriental Philosophy. Manes thought of
the Divinity as a Living Light, a Father of all Lights,
immaterial, eternal, residing in a Supreme luminous
Heaven, also eternal, for nothing could be made out of
nothing, and always accompanied byfEons, emanations
of this divine essence but inferior. God was a Cause in
perpetual and eternal action (Creative Principle). From
the essence of the Father emanated the Son and the Holy
Spirit, co-substantial but subordinate to the Father.
Since the creation of the world and until the consumma­
tion the Son has resided in the Sun as a power, and in
the Moon as the reflected wisdom of the Mother of Life;
the Holy Spirit resides in the air, both carrying out the
orders of the Father. Here we have apparently a varia­
tion of the Emerald Tablet of Hermes.
M. de Beausobre then explains Darkness. In a
corner of the vast space is a malignant power, also
eternal, called philosophically matter, mystically Dark­
ness, and by the vulgar the Devil. Both Light and Dark­
ness were divided into five elements: water, earth, fire,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
32
air, and Light or Darkness, otherwise ether; that is, the
four properties of dissolving, coagulating, heating, and
cooling. Light knew Darkness, but Darkness only
became aware of Light when a revolt arose within that
Kingdom (Lucifer) upon which Darkness invaded Light,
and although the Primal Man (Christ), assisted by the
Living Spirit, of five elements, opposed and overpowered
it, part of the Light was stolen and Darkness and Light
became mixed together. The Living Spirit then separated
the luminous substance which had not been seized by
matter, and formed it into the Sun and the Moon, and
other planets, also our inferior heaven; the rest went to
form our sublunary world, with matter and light mixed
together. Wishing to retain the spark of Light, the
Prince of Darkness or matter formed two bodies on the
model of the Primal Man, but with different sexes, and
enclosed these sparks or souls, charming .them with the
emotions of the senses, and as generation resulted more
and more were thus entrapped and drank of the cup of
forgetfulness. Then, according to Manes, good angels,
Sages, and Prophets appeared to teach the forgotten
truths, and finally came the “ phantom ” Saviour. He
held the Docetic belief that matter being evil, Christ’s
body was a mere phantom, that His acts and sufferings,
including the Crucifixion, Resurrection, and Ascension,
were only apparent and in reality merely mystical teach­
ings. He also denied the Incarnation. For the elect he
disapproved of marriage as being invented by Darkness
to retard the return to the Light (unused sex-force is
required for this return!) ; austerities, no meat, no wine,
were advocated as weakening the flesh and freeing the
spark within. The elect had to embrace poverty, and the
only pleasures allowed were music and perfumes, both
loosening the spark or soul from the shackles of matter.
When sufficiently purified, this soul passed into the moon,
receiving surface illumination, and from there was dis­
charged into the sun, where it became luminous, and was
finally remitted to the “ Pillar of Glory,” free from all
matter. Transmigration was admitted, as one life was
not enough to free the spark from the taint of matter.
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 3 3
The final consummation will be when all this luminous
substance has been separated from matter; the evil fire
will then be freed from the caverns; the angel upholding
the earth will let it fall in flames, and the whole mass will
be relegated to Outer Darkness. Those who have failed
to free themselves in time will be made guardians of the
devils, keeping them from again bringing matter into the
kingdom of Light. Such is the marvellous fable under
which lies the nature-worship of ancient and modern
Magism, known to-day as Illuminism, often called Chris­
tian !—as, for example, Anthroposophy or Steinerism,
with its two opposing forces Lucifer and Ahriman, light
and matter, and its solar and iHuminising Christ. And
the redemption consists with them of a physical and
gnostic process of freeing, by means of unused sex-force,
the element of light from matter or the body, and uniting
it with the universal magnetic agent without, more often
linking one mind with another in a magnetic chain, the
weaker dominated by the more powerful, producing a
world-inundation of communications from so-called
“ Sages and Prophets,” destructive both to Christianity
and Western civilisation.
Yarker, in Arcane Schools, gives the Manichaean
grades as: Disciples, Auditors or mystics, and the Perfect
or elect, the priests; from these latter was formed the
Magistri or Council of Twelve and a thirteenth as Presi­
dent, as in the Chaldean system. Further, they had
secret forms of recognition: word, grip, and breast.
Finally, it is said that, as the body was considered evil,
it had to be defiled or humiliated, hence the erotic and
sexual practices found among Manichaeans and other
Gnostic sects, more often after their frenetic dances; all
of which were supposed to free the spark and hasten
deification.
As Gibbon stated, the great Manichaean system
flourished in the Byzantine age from Persia to Spain, in
spite of persecutions by Arian and orthodox emperors
alike. And Springett tells us, in the Secret Sects ofSyria:
“ Manichaean doctrines were thus being diffused during the
period when the Templars were at the height of their prosperity
3
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
34
and power, and King devotes several pages of his work to a
consideration of the close resemblance between these Orders.
Gnosticism, he points out, in one shape or another, was still
surviving on the very headquarters of the Order, among their
closest allies or enemies, the mountaineers of Syria.”
ISM AILIS
According to von Hammer, in his Histoire de
VOrdre des Assassins, 1835, the founder of the Ismaili
sect, Abdallah, son of Maimoun, deeply learned in all
sciences and taught by the bloody revolts of his own time,
realised the danger of declaring open war against religion
and the ruling Dynasties, more especially when supported
by the people and a powerful army. Therefore, he
formed a carefully considered scheme to secretly under­
mine what he could not openly attack. His doctrine,
subversive to the Khalifat, had to be veiled in mystery,
and only revealed when by secret intrigue the power had
been captured. Finally, he dreamt of destroying, not
only what he called the errors of dogma and positive
religion, but also the basis of all religion and all morals.
He divided his doctrine into seven degrees, in this way
gradually seizing and subverting the minds of his fol­
lowers. Out of this doctrine arose the sect of the Kar-
mathites, more open and more violent in their revolt
against the Khalifat, both politically and morally. For
a century the frightful doctrines of the Karmathites held
their sway until at last the sect was extinguished in its
own blood. Finally, one of their most zealous Dais,
Abdallah, who claimed to be a descendant of Mohammed,
son of Ismail, escaped from prison, and seated himself
upon the throne, founding the Dynasty of the Fatimites
at Kairwan about a .d . 910, under the name of Obeid-
allah.
H o u s e o f W is d o m
Our authorities on the nine degrees of Initiation, as
were given by the Ismailis in the Grand Lodge or House
of Wisdom, Cairo, are, von Hammer and Expose de la
Religion des Druzes, by Silvestre de Sacy, 1838; both
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 35
quote Macrisi and Nowairi. As von Hammer writes:
“ The details which Macrisi has transmitted to us on the
origin of this doctrine and the different degrees of initiation,
which were extended from seven to nine, are the most precious
and most ancient that we have on the history of the secret
societies of the East, in whose steps those of the West afterwards
trod. The close agreement between this doctrine and that of the
Assassins is worth noting.”
This doctrine of Abd’allah, son of Maimoun, from the
foundation of the Fatimite Empire dominated both court
and government, first at Mahadia and then at Cairo.
The chief of the Darol-Hikmct, or House of Wisdom,
was known as the Daial-Doat, or Grand Prior of the
Lodge. They upheld Ismail as founder of the “ Path,”
and admitted men and women. There, under El Hakem,
the sixth Fatimite Khalifa, a veritable monster of cruelty
and crime, who to-day is venerated by the Druzes as a
god-made man, the secret doctrine was taught and the
nine degrees given.
Briefly, summed up from de Sacy, who quotes both
Macrisi and Nowairi, who apparently drew their in­
formation from one and the same source, they were:
( i ) The Dai, or missionary, affected devotion in order
to seduce his proselyte; with the learned he applauded
and agreed with their opinions, careful that his designs
and secret were not betrayed. To the simple-minded,
easily seduced, he explained that religion was a hidden
and abstruse science, the inner meaning of which was
known to the Imams alone. By questions on the con­
tradictions of positive religion and reason, the obscuri­
ties and absurdities of the Koran, he stirred up doubts
and perplexities as well as a violent curiosity, refusing
to satisfy this curiosity, and before giving further teach­
ing the Dai demanded an inviolable oath, in which the
proselyte swore not to betray the secret, not to lie to or
league against the Lodge. If he consented, a money
pledge, the amount determined by the Dai, was exacted.
Should he refuse either to take the oath or pay the money,
he was left to his own perplexities and told nothing
more.
36 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
(2) He was then persuaded that only through
divinely appointed Imams could the doctrine be received.
(3) Further, that the number of these “ revealed”
Imams of the Ismailis was seven, as opposed to the twelve
Imams of the Imamias, thus discrediting the Imamat and
its head Mousa. (4) The proselyte was told that from
the beginning of the world there have been seven divine
law-givers or speaking prophets—Adam, Noah, Abra­
ham, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed (Mahomet), and
Ismail, son of Djafar—who could by divine command
abrogate the preceding religion and substitute a new one.
To each of these “ speakers ” was attached another, who
received his doctrine and succeeded him after his death;
seven such mutes, who carried on the existent religion,
succeeded uninterruptedly each law-giver, until finally
the seventh of these law-givers abrogated all preceding
religions. According to the Ismailis, this last was Mo­
hammed, son of Ismail, who instituted and revealed the
new science of the inner and mystic meaning of all out­
ward things. He alone was the teacher, and all the
world must follow and obey him. Agreeing to this,
the proselyte renounced the Law of the Prophet Ma­
homet, and therefore became an apostate. (5) He
was taught the virtue of numbers and some principles of
geometry, and told that each Imam had twelve ministers
—the twelve signs of the Zodiac. The Dai then pre­
pared the proselyte to abandon all religions established
by the prophets, leading him to the doctrines of the
philosophers. (6) Sure of his silence and having re­
oriented his beliefs, the Dai began to undermine his
faith, allegorising the precepts of prayer, tithes, pil­
grimages, and other religious observances, making them
appear as merely means to dominate the masses. The
Dai then praised the principles of such philosophers as
Plato, Aristotle, etc., speaking on the other hand lightly
of those who had instituted these religious observances,
criticising and treating the Imams with scorn. Deprived
of all his beliefs, the proselyte was an easy prey.
(7) He passed from philosophy to mysticism, the
Oriental pantheistic mysticism of the Sufees. He was
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 3 7
turned from the Unity of God to dualism and materialism.
(8) The Dai then expounded the true prophet’s mission,
which, he said, was to establish certain political insti­
tutions forming a well-constituted government, a philo­
sophical system, and spiritual doctrines applied allegoric­
ally to intellectual things, and finally a religious system on
the authority of this prophet. The teachings of the
Koran were explained as meaning nothing “ but the
periodical revolution of the stars and the universe, the
production and destruction of all things, according to
the disposition and combination of the elements, con­
formable to the doctrine of the philosophers ” (Cosmic
forces and universal generation). (9) Having got so
far, some adopted the teachings of Manes, the Magi, or
the philosophers, or they mixed them together, and ended
in abandoning all revealed religions. To suit the new
doctrine, the Dai, by allegorical interpretations, twisted
the words of whatever religion was professed by the
proselyte always in favour of the prophet, Mohammed,
son of Ismail, as the sole prophet inspired by God. With
regard to this prophet, at first they said he would return
to the world, then modifying this, said that “ he could
be contacted spiritually through meditation on the mysti­
cal doctrines; as for his manifestation, it consisted in
preaching his doctrines, communicated to men by the
tongues of his faithful servants.”
As von Hammer wrote:
" As soon as the proselyte arrived at the ninth degree he was
ripe to serve as blind instrument to all passions, and above all to
a limitless ambition for domination. The whole of this philosophy
could be resumed in two words: believe nothing and dare all.
These principles destroyed from top to bottom all religion, all
morals, and had no other aim than to realise sinister projects
carried out by clever ministers, to whom nothing was sacred.
We thus see those who should have been the protectors of
humanity abandoned to an insatiable ambition, buried under the
ruins of thrones and altars in the midst of the horrors of anarchy,
after having brought misfortune upon nations, and deserving the
curse of mankind.”
Finally, this curious order was given to the Dai by
THE TRAIL OF TH E SERPENT
38
those above him: “ You must practise and gain great
sleight of hand so as to fascinate the eyes (hypnotic
illusion) in order to work the miracles which are ex­
pected of you.” As we have already shown, among the
Dactyles, Corybantes, and in the Greater Mysteries,
illusions, jugglery, and evocations were the means used
to deceive, not only the epoptes and mystes, but the
ignorant people.
To-day, in these numerous sects, cabalistic and illu-
minati, much the same methods as with the Ismailis are
used, and the same doctrine taught. It is always a
gradual re-orientation, first an attempt to adapt these
doctrines of the Magi,. Manes, and the philosophers to
Christianity, destroying the very essence of Christian
beliefs, leading to pantheism, dualism, and materialism,
often ending in pantheistic mysticism. Through mys­
tical meditation and yoga they achieve magnetic but con­
trolled union with their sinister masters, from whom
they receive the universal teachings necessary for their
master’s “ Great Work,” unification and world control
—religious, political, and intellectual.
Speaking of the House of Wisdom, Springett quotes
Ameer Ali’s book, A Short History of the Saracens, in
which he says: “ Makrisi’s account of the different de­
grees of initiation adopted in the Lodge forms an in­
valuable record of Freemasonry. In fact, the Lodge at
Cairo became the model of all the Lodges created after­
wards in Christendom.”
A ssa ssin s a n d T em plars
As we would show, modern subversive ideas have
their origin in the nearer East, and have been spread
largely through the primitive cabalistic sects and their
more ancient borrowings. In his book, Le Juif, le
Judaisme et la Judaisation des Peuples Chretiens, 1869,
Gougenot des Mousseaux, speaking of the Manichaeans,
Gnostics, Yezidis, -Druses, etc., writes:
Primitive cabalism was what these sectaries are, for they
remain Sabeists; they adore the sun, the stars, the spirit of the
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 3 9
stars, and the evil principle, called by the Persians Ahriman. . . .
Among these sectaries, all passions, even the most shameful, are
regarded as sacred. . . . This absolute despotism of the Grand
Masters of Chaldean cabalism was that of the Prince of the
Assassins, and the Druses preserve the doctrine and the morals
of this cabala. It is that of the secret Grand Master of High
Masonry which is governed by the Jews.”
The Eastern Ismailis or Assassins were founded
about 1090 by Hassan Sabah, who, after being admitted
into the House of Wisdom, Cairo, had to fly because of
his intrigues. Realising that as a political society it must
have a fortress, by further intrigues he purchased the
Castle of Alamoot, on the Caspian Sea, where he even­
tually founded his Order. He gained many castles in
Persia, obtaining great power, inspiring terror in the
hearts of all by sudden assassinations of caliphs and
viziers. Their head or Sheikh was known as “ The Old
Man of the Mountain,” and it was said “the initiates
worked with their heads and led the arms of the Fedavis
in execution of the orders of the Sheikh who with his
pen guided the daggers.” Later it was dispersed, but
still exists in India and other countries.
In his Secret Sects of Syria, Springett traces the
influence of the Jewish philosophers of the celebrated
Alexandrian School upon Gnostics and M'anichaeans and
through them upon the Templars. He quotes King and
von Hammer to prove that the constitution of the Tem­
plar Order
" is a servile copy of that of the Assassins. The statutes of the
latter prove the fact beyond gainsaying; they were found upon
the captives of their capital Alamoot by the Mogul Halakoo, in
the year 1335, when by a singular coincidence, Caliph and Pope
were busied in exterminating the model and the copy in the
East and West, at one and the same time.”
From these documents were verified the “ Eight
Degrees of Initiation ” as established by Hassan, the
first Grand Master or “ Prince or Old Man of the
Mountain.” We find: in number 3, denial of the truth
of the Koran, and of all other sacred scriptures; 4, the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
4 0
trial of silent and perfect obedience; 5, the disclosure
of the names of the great Brothers of the Order, royal,
sacerdotal, and patrician, in all parts of the world; 7,
the allegorical interpretation of the Koran, and of all
other scriptures. In this Order the divinity of all
founders of religious systems was alike denied. Religion
was shown to be a mere step to knowledge, its narratives
to be merely allegorical, and exhibiting the progress of
civil society; thus, Man’s Fall signified political slavery;
Redemption his restoration to liberty and equality. 8,
that all actions were indifferent, provided only they were
done for the good of the Order, there being no such thing
absolutely as vice or virtue. These are almost identical
with the tenets of the Illuminati.
Von Hammer, in his History of the Assassins,
further elucidates this “ Catechism of the Order,” as he
calls it. Of the fourth he says that, after taking an
oath, the candidate promised a blind obedience, and at
the same time swore “ to communicate to none but his
superiors any doubts he might have about the mysteries
and doctrines of the Ismaelites.” Curiously enough, the
late Dr. Felkin, Chief of the Stella Matutina, desiring,
in 1909, further teaching from the “ Hidden Chiefs ” or
Sun Masters, was told he must first take a pledge “ by
all that he held most awful and sacred, never to betray
the method to mortal man.” Part of the pledge was:
“ If hereafter I am assailed by doubts I will reveal such
doubts only to the Masters. . . . Should I at any time
find myself unable any longer to keep this pledge, I will
say nothing to my brothers or sisters of the Order to
weaken their faith, but I will quietly pass into abeyance.”
The pledge was taken.
With regard to the seventh degree, we find the
same idea in the Jewish School of Alexandria, for, as
we have already said, Aristobulus declared that all the
facts and details of the Jewish Scriptures were so many
allegories, concealing the most profound meanings.
Philo too followed the same theory, and endeavoured to
show that the Hebrew writings, by their system of
allegories, were the true source of all religions and
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 41
philosophical doctrines. The literal meaning was for
the vulgar alone. Like Philo, Steiner, of Anthropo-
sophy, taught the same interpretation, that the Bible was
merely an allegory pf the gradual and mystical deifica­
tion of man as symbolically portrayed in all ancient and
modern mysteries. This deification is symbolised by
the “ hidden God ” Amoun of the Egyptians and the
crux ansata, the latter being the centre of the Theo-
sophical symbol and means the dual forces of generation
—the kundalini; again, the Caduceus of Hermes, placed
on the lower part of the pantheistic figure Baphomet of
the Templar cult, represents the generative forces within
man, the means of deification.
Further, among the Khlysty and other primitive
gnostics is found this same allegorical interpretation of
the Gospels and Old Testament, with the same deification
or creation of “ Christs ” in view. As M. Ribot says,
there are many ways of producing artificial ecstasy or
having divinity within oneself—rhythmic dances, soma,
wine, blood, orgies, and drug intoxication, including no
doubt hasheesh, such as was used by “ The Old Man
of the Mountain ” which prepared his fanaticised
Fedavis, intoxicated by every lure of the senses, a so-
called foretaste of paradise, or perhaps hypnotised, thus
made ready and willing to carry out by dagger or poison
the plotted murders of the Grand Master’s victims.
According to von Hammer there were seven grades of
Assassins closely akin to those of the Templars:
1. Grand Master, or “ Old Man of the Mountain.”
2. Dailkebir, or Grand Prior.
3. Dais, or initiated Masters, recruiters.
4. Refik, or companions.
5. Fedavis, blind instruments, the guards of the Order.
6. Lassiks, aspirants.
7. Batini, or secret brethren, affiliates.
Among the seven silent Imams was the “ Invisible Imam,”
in whose name the Grand Master exacted obedience from
the people. Like the secret instigators of the French
Revolution, according to Louis Blanc, Grand Masters of
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
42
the Templars linked to Weishaupt’s Illuminati, Hassan
desired to overthrow thrones and altars, but recognised
that anarchy, although often useful to the governed,
should never be the aim of the governing. His ambition
was to found an empire on the ruins of the Khalifat and
the family of Abbas.
The Assassins were not a principality, but merely
a confraternity or Order similar to that of the Knights
of Saint John, the Teutonic Knights, or the Templars.
As von Hammer says:
“ The nature of the functions that in the last-named Order
were filled by its Grand Master and Grand Priors, its religious
institutions, the political tendency of its spirit and its doctrines,
all even to its clothing gave it some resemblance to that of the
Assassins. . . . The fundamental rule of the two Orders was
to seize fortresses and castles in the neighbouring countries in
order more easily to control the people; both were dangerous
rivals for the princes and formed a state within a state.”
To-day it is not merely a state within a state ruled
by secret sects, but a Universal World State ruled by
unknown “ Supermen.”
D r u s e s
According to Springett, the Druses were said to
take their name from Mohammed Ibn, Ismail el-Dorazi,
a Persian who came to Egypt about 1017. Causing
fanatical riots at Cairo by proclaiming the divinity of
the Khalifa El-Hakem, he was forced by the people to
fly, and was sent to Lebanon by El-Hakem, where, under
his instructions, the Druses acknowledged El-Hakem’s
divinity. Some years later the real founder of their
religion, Hamzeh, a Dai or missionary of the House of
Wisdom, further sent Moktana Baha-edeen to replace
Dorazi, and prevailed on the Druses to accept the initia­
tion system of the Grand Lodge at Cairo, thus forming,
the religion as it is to-day. Dorazi’s teaching was a
form of mysteries which “ threw a cloak over the in­
dulgence of the worst passions of human nature,” and
these to a certain extent still prevail, dividing the Druses
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 4 3
into two sects—the more orthodox moral and religious
teaching of Hamzeh and the licentiousness of Dorazi.
Mackenzie describes their religion as a compound of
Judaism, Christianity, and Mohammedanism; they have
a priesthood, a kind of hierarchy, passwords and signs,
and both sexes are admitted.
As stated by Mme Blavatsky, who was a member of
the Druse Order, it is Gnostic and Magian; they believe
in the Unity of God, who is the essence of life, invisible
but known through occasional manifestations in human
form. She calls it a last survival of the archaic Wisdom-
religion known to-day as “ Kabalism, Theosophy, and
Occultism.’' It is pantheistic. Outwardly, as incul­
cated in their sacred books, they profess to read the
Koran and the Gospels, while secretly following their
mystery doctrines. She also claims that there is a close
affinity between the Turanian Lamaists and the Semitic
El-Hammists or Druses. The Turanians*of India are,
writes Yarker, a race of builders, tree, and serpent wor­
shippers. In an early issue of the Theosophist Mme
Blavatsky quotes Laurence Oliphant as writing:
“ The Druse has a firm conviction that the end of the world
is at hand . . . [which] will be signalised by the approach of a
mighty army from the East against the contending powers of
Islam and Christianity . . . under the command of the Universal
Mind [Illuminism!] and will consist of millions of Chinese
Unitarians. Christians and Mohammedans will surrender and
march before it to Mecca, El-Hakem will then appear (as the
last divine incarnation). . . . The Druses are eagerly waiting for
an Armageddon in which they believe themselves destined to
play a prominent part.”
Yarker says of Mfne Blavatsky: “ Blavatsky, who
was an initiate of the (Druse) Sect, informs us . . . that
its basis is the old Ophite (or Nasseni) Gnosticism."
She also, we know, belonged to the revolutionary, Jew-
dominated Carbonari, and later claimed to be in touch
with Masters in Tibet. A few points about her are
worth noting as given by the French orientalist, Rene
Guenon, in Le Theosophisme. Before she founded the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
44
Theosophical Society she was greatly influenced by Palos
Metamon, a Copt, or, as some say, a Chaldean, a worker
in magic and spiritism; further, Sinnet declared that
“ Mme Blavatsky crowned a career of thirty-five to
forty years of mystic studies by a retreat of seven years
in the solitudes of the Himalayas ” ; this was before she
went to America in 1873, at which time she was only
forty-two! As Rene Guenon remarks, “ We should have
to conclude that she must have begun her studies at her
birth, if not indeed a little before!” Going back through
her life and giving data, he concludes that her visit to
Tibet was pure invention. As for her controls, she was
for a time member of the Hermetic Brotherhood of
Luxor, who taught that “ these phenomena were due, not
to spirits of the dead, but to certain forces directed by
living men” He further explains that her “ spirit
guides ”—John King, Serapis, and the Kashtniri brother
—merely represent the successive influences using her,
and that “ it is legitimate to conclude that Mme Blavatsky
was, above all, in many circumstances, a ‘subject5 or
instrument in the hands of individuals or occult groups,
sheltering behind her personality, in the same way as
others were in their turn instruments in her hands.”
And this is what one finds throughout .the whole history,
ancient and modern, of these sects—illusion, jugglery,
magic—the use of this “ fluidic magic,” going back to
the remotest past, it is the fire stolen by Prometheus from
the Gods.
SUFEES AND DERVISHES
Again we learn from Springett, in his Secret Secis
of Syria, that “ the Sufees are a secret society of
Persian mystic philosophers and ascetics, whose original
religion may have been that of the Chaldeans or Sabeans,
who believed in the unity of God, but adored the hosts
of heaven (Tsaba), especially the seven planets, as repre­
senting Him.” The Sufi Masters mean by God the
power underlying all phenomena which is everywhere
and in everything. It is pantheistic mysticism. These
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 4 5
Sufee principles are held among the higher grades of
the Dervishes. The Sufee doctrine, King says, involves
the idea of one universal creed which could be secretly
held under any profession of an outward faith. The
Dervish guide instructs the candidate in the mystic
philosophy, and if it in any way shocks the pupil, is
supplied with a double sense so that he can turn aside
any fears or objections. In the same way the pantheistic
teachings of the Stella Matutina of to-day could be
twisted so that even a Christian priest might be per­
suaded to see Christianity in them.
Speaking of the Initiation of a Dervish, Springett
says of the Kadiri Order that, after many months of
probation in the monastery, the Sheikh, at the assembly
of the brethren, places on the candidate’s head a white
felt cap, having attached to it a cloth rose of eighteen
petals with the interlaced triangles of Solomon’s Seal
in the centre—the Jewish symbol of the dual forces of
nature, as above so below. Before being fully accepted
as a Dervish, he passes through intermediate stages
under the guidance of a Superior or initiate of the highest
degree.
“ He is taught to concentrate his thoughts so completely
on his ‘ Guide ’ as to become mentally absorbed in him as a
spiritual link with the supreme object of all devotion. The
Guide must be the neophyte’s shield against all worldly thoughts
and desires (let go the material!) ; his spirit must aid him in all
his efforts, accompanying him wherever he may be, and be ever
present in his mental vision. Such a frame of mind is termed
‘annihilation into the Murshid,' and the Guide discovers, by means
of his own visions, the degree of spirituality to which his
disciple has attained, and to what extent his soul has become
absorbed into his own.”
He then enters the “ Path,” and according to his
aptitude and willingness to accept the Guide’s mystic
philosophy, although against his religious feelings, his
advance will be correspondingly rapid.
“ He is now supposed to come under the spiritual influence
of the Pir or founder of the Order, in whom he in turn becomes
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
46
mentally absorbed to such a degree as to be virtually one with
him, acquiring his attributes and power of performing super­
natural acts. The next stage of the mystic life is that termed
by the Dervishes ‘ Spiritual Knowledge,’ and the disciple . . . is
believed by the Sheikh . . . to have become inspired. . . . He now
enters into spiritual communion with the Prophet himself, into
whose soul his own has become absorbed.”
Finally, in the fourth degree “ during forty days’
fasting and seclusion . . . in an ecstatic state he be­
lieved himself to have become part of the Divinity, and
sees Him in all things.” The Sheikh then “ gently
awakens the disciple from his ecstasy, and having re­
stored him to his normal condition, bestows upon him
the rank of Khalifeh (successor). The mystic now
resumes his outward observance of the rites of Islam,
and prepares for his pilgrimage to the Holy Cities.”
To-day the whole world has become a veritable hive
of cabalistic and gnostic sects, and in each and all is found
this same system of gradual mental absorption, as with
the Dervishes, of the adept’s personality as he advances
upward, successively by the official teacher of the Order,
by a Teacher on the astral plane, in Rosicrucian Orders
by its so-called founder Christian Rosenkreutz, and finally
complete absorption by some unknown Central Power,
still in the material body. Thus oracles are trained, ap­
parently inspired, giving forth teaching, which in turn
is passed down through the various grades of the order
orienting the members. They finally go out among the
people spreading the ideas, often in the name of Liberty,
Equality, and Fraternity, leading them astray under the
direct or indirect influence of these sects and their outside
manifestations, international, universal, socialist, com­
munist, and atheist.
Y e z i d i s
As Springett writes :
“ The Yezidis have a tradition that they originally came
from Basrah, and from the country watered by the lower part
of the Euphrates; that, after their emigration, they settled first
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 4 7
in Syria, and subsequently took possession of the Sindjar hill,
and the districts they now inhabit in Kurdistan. . . . There is
in them a strange mixture of Sabeanism, Christianity, and Moham­
medanism, with a tincture of the doctrines of the Gnostics and
Manichaeism; Sabeanism, however, appears to be the prevailing
feature."
They have a great respect for the Sun and its symbol
fire. In Le Juif} des Mousseaux, quoting authorities,
tells us that Chaldea has always been the cradle of the
demonic cabala, descended from the Cainites, and from
the Sabeans, who adored the sun, stars, spirit of the
stars, and the evil principle. This cabala penetrated
among the Yezidis and Druses.
Now W. B. Seabrook, in his Adventures in Arabia,
says that in the “ Black Book ” of the Yezidis, Shaitan
commands: “Speak not my name nor mention my attri­
butes, lest ye be guilty, for ye have no true knowledge
thereof, but honour my symbol and image.” Seabrook
was told that “ Shaitan ” was the “ Bright Spirit Melek-
Taos ” (Angel Peacock), the “ Spirit of Power and the
ruler of the world ”—Lucifer! He also speaks of th^,
seven Towers of Shaitan, or “ power-houses,” which are
said to form a chain across Asia, from northern Man­
churia, through Tibet, west through Persia and ending
in Kurdistan, and in each tower is a priest who was said
to do world-magic. He saw one such at Sheikh-Adi; it
was whitewashed, fluted, and cone-shaped, with a polished
ball of gold or brass on the pinnacle, which flashed abroad
when struck by the sun; often, he was told, a special
magic-worker spent many days alone in it. On the
entrance to their shrine was a black serpent!
According to des Mousseaux, the Yezidis were
governed by a Supreme Emir, who was Patriarch and
Pontiff, with absolute power; by means of subordinate
emirs he transmitted his orders to all Yezidis (Scha-
manites) scattered throughout Kurdistan, Media, Meso­
potamia, and the Mounts Zindjar. And “ it is probable
also that by mysterious ramifications his orders reached
to the remotest extremities of Asia, and perhaps even
Europe.” Further,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
“ all passions even the most shameful, are regarded as sacred . . .
the devil for them is only a fallen angel . . . God, they say, is
infinitely good, incapable of doing evil to men. The devil, on the
contrary, is infinitely wicked, and in his malice his sole pleasure
is to torture them. It is, therefore, above all prudent, if one
would be happy here below, to abandon the cult of God, who can
do no harm . . . and to place oneself under the protection of the
being who alone can exempt men from the evils of this life, since
he alone can inflict them. . . .”
It is said that they are given up to the most extra­
ordinary theurgic practices, all that is most diabolical in
magic and sorcery. In confirmation of much of this
Springett writes further:
“ If, indeed, the Yezidi belief be one deprecatory of the
Devil, and if, as Mr. L,ayard intimates, the peacock be symbolic
of Satan, who is in their eyes only the chief of the rebel angels,
then the Malek Taoos would represent the bad rather than the
good principle, and so far would be akin to the golden calf of
the Druses, and imply also Persian origin of the sect, and the
ancient ideas of Ahura Mazda (or Ormuzd) and Ahriman.”
The Yezidi Chief himself said the “ Malek Taoos ”
was a symbol held in great reverence.
Springett states that the Yezidis are ruled by two
Sheikhs, one directing civil affairs, the other presiding
over religious rites, especially entrusted with the care
of their Sanctuary named after their chief Saint, Sheikh
Adi. The hierarchy includes four orders of priests—
Pirs, Sheikhs, Kawals, and Fakirs, which are hereditary,
and women, if in the line of succession, can fill them. As
to their beliefs, they believe in a Supreme Being, the
essence of goodness,
“ and also revere Satan, though they never pronounce his name
or anything approaching it. . . . They appear, therefore, to
worship both Good and Evil deities of the ancient Persians, but
say, as the latter can sometimes do good while the former cannot
possibly do anything evil, it is the Evil principle they must con­
ciliate.”
He also speaks of “ the extremely prized sacred
48
CABALISTS, GNOSTICS, AND SECRET SYRIAN SECTS 4 9
book possessed by the Yezidis, and according to Badger
and Layard it is written in Arabic, and consists of a
poetical rhapsody on the merits and attributes of Sheikh
Adi.
As reported by the Revue Internationale des Sovietes
Secretes, I May, 1932, Pierre van Passen, of the Toronto
Daily Star, gave an account of a Black Mass ceremony
which he witnessed in the Temple, rue de Montparnasse,
Paris. He said there are eleven temples, and, it is
estimated, about 10,000 worshippers of the Devil in
Paris—men and women who have passed through a long
apprenticeship. These worshippers of the Devil are in
communion with a sect still existing in the Syrian desert
in the neighbourhood of Bagdad, who worship
“ Shaitan/’ which name must never be spoken, not even
words beginning with the first two letters. There have
been, for ten or twenty years, many outside complaints,
but, under the “ liberty of worship ” decree, this cult is
allowed by the French Government on conditions that
no open propaganda is carried on.
4
CHAPTER III
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUMINES
The origin of the Rosicrucians is still an unsolved mys­
tery; it is even as Disraeli wrote in 1841: “ This mystic
Order spread among the Germans, a mystic people, where
its origin was actually debated in the same way as those
of other secret societies; in fact, its hidden sources defy
research.”
On the other hand, as in all so-called Rose-Croix
Orders, the R.R. et A.C.— Rosae Rubeae et Aureae
Crucis—in its 5 = 6 ritual claims to go back to the re­
motest, even mythical, ages of antiquity, for it says:
“ Know that the Order of the Rose and Cross has existed
from time immemorial, and that its mystic rites were practised
and its wisdom taught in Egypt, Eleusis, Samothrace, Persia,
Chaldea, India, and in far more ancient lands, and thus handed
down to posterity the Secret Wisdom of the Ancient Ages.
Many were its Temples, and among many nations were they
established, though in process of time some lost the purity of
their primal knowledge.”
The mysterious Brothers of the Rosy Cross desig­
nated themselves as Invisibles, and their legendary history
was briefly this: the Fraternity was founded by a certain
Christian Rosenkreutz, born, it is said, in 1378, of a
noble German family. For twelve years, from the age
of five, he was educated in a cloister, and thereafter
travelled to Damascus, and from thence to a place called
Damcar in Arabia, where he was well received by the
Magi. These wise men expected him as being the one
who, it had been foretold, would regenerate the world,
and they initiated him into their Arabian magic. After
visiting Fez and Spain, he returned to Germany where,
along with three disciples, he founded the Fraternity, and
they built their house called “ Domus Sancti Spiritus,”
50
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 51
in which C. R. lived until his death. There they wrote
the book “ M ”—Magicon, according-to Dr. Wynn West-
cott—compiled, it is said, from the magic taught to C. R.
by the Arabs of Damcar. Also the books Axiomata,
Rota Mundi, and Protheus.
Christian Rosenkreutz died, we are told, in 1484,
at the age of one hundred or more, and for one hundred
and twenty years the place of his tomb remained un­
known. In 1604, while repairing the building, they
came upon the door of the vault, and when opened they
there found the body of their founder and much magical
property and occult manuscripts. After his death the
brothers devoted themselves to the study of the secrets
of nature and its hidden forces, besides practising medi­
cine, gratuitously, using some mysterious remedies.
Their agreement was: (1) That none of them should
profess any other thing than to cure the sick and that
gratis. (2) None of the Posterity should be constrained
to wear one certain kind of habit, but therein to follow
the custom of the country. (3) That every year, upon
the day C. (Corpus Christi Day, the summer solstice),
they should meet together at the house Sancti Spiritus,
or write the cause of absence. (4) Every brother
should look for a worthy person, who, (after his decease,
might succeed him. (5) The letters R. C. should be
their seal, mark, and character. (6) The Fraternity
should remain secret one hundred years.
These Invisibles awaited what they called the puri­
fication of the Church, when, before the end of the world,
they hoped to re-establish everything in its primitive in­
tegrity. After the opening of the tomb, the appointed
one hundred and twenty years having more than passed,
they issued two manifestos—Fama Fraternitatis R.C.,
1614, and Confessio Fraternitatis Rosae Crucis, 1615,
and sent them to all the learned men and Governments
in Europe, inviting them to join with the Order in the
universal reform. For a time these made a great stir,
but with little outward result. These documents by
many were ascribed to Jean Valentin Andrea, although
he, himself, always denied the authorship.
52 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
In his book, L cs R osc-C roix L yonnais an X V I IT
Siecle, 1929, Paul Vulliaud goes into these manifestos,
etc., linking them with Paracelsus and Cornelius
Agrippa, Theosophy and Illuminism. Speaking of Ch.
Fauvety’s L ivre dn M ond (Magic of Nature) Vulliaud
writes:
“ In a very interesting study Fauvety maintains it has to
do with Magnetism. . . . He did well in showing the importance
attributed, during the time of Paracelsus, to the magnetic fluid in
the Theosophico-scientific doctrines. . . . After having observed
that the followers of Paracelsus and van Helmont made a mystery
of it, Fauvety adds, that the magnetic power ‘ might, indeed,
according to some writers, have been the secret of the Rose-
Croix, who in the sixteenth century were said to possess a
universal remedy. What supports this supposition is that even
the adversaries of magnetism reproached the doctors, followers
of Paracelsus, with curing by magnetic processes similar to those
of the Rose-Croix.’ ”
As Gustave Bord wrote in L a Franc-M agonnerie en
F rance, 1908:
“ The doctrine of Paracelsus was drawn from the Cabala,
Hermetic philosophy and alchemy. He claimed to know and
expound the entire system of the Mysterious forces which act in
nature and in man. . . . Man must unite himself to the forces
required in order to produce either physical or intellectual pheno­
mena. The Universe was the Macrocosm, man was the Micro­
cosm, and they were similar (as above so below).”
Further, Vulliaud says that J. J. Monnier also knew
that in certain lodges the initiates practised magnetism.
According to Monnier, “ they magnetised by divine grace
[«c], by force of faith and will, through walls to great
distances, from Paris even to Dominica.” Finally,
Vulliaud concludes:
“ To sum up, Rosicrucianism is composed of mystic illumin­
ism, in combination with alchemy, astrology, magnetism, and
communication with spirits [astral!], if not with the Word itself;,
it is composed of sometimes one, sometimes several of these forms
of the marvellous and occult. . . . In certain lodges . . . they
ardently practise theurgy.”
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 53
In an anonymous book, Mysteries of the Rosie
Cross, published in 1891, which is full of documented
information, we read:
“ Respecting the origin and signification of the term Rosi-
crucian, different opinions have been held and expressed. Some
have thought it was made up of rosa and crux (a rose and a
cross), but it is maintained by others upon apparently good
authority, that it is a compound of ros (dew) and crux (cross).
. . . A cross in the language of the fire philosophers is the same
as Lux (light), because the figure of a cross + exhibits all three
letters of the word Lux at one view. . . . A Rosicrucian, there­
fore, is a philosopher who, by means of dew seeks for light—
that is, for the substance of the philosopher’s stone ”—
the Quintessence or five elements, earth, air, fire, water,
and ether; the illuminised man!
As to the Rosa-Crux interpretation, the R.R. et
A.C. ritual informs us the key to the
“ Tomb of Osiris On-nopheris, the Justified One (illumin­
ated), the symbolical burying-place of our Mystic Founder Chris­
tian Rosenkreutz which he made to represent the Universe . . . is
the form of the Rose and Cross, the ancient Crux Ansata, the
Egyptian symbol of Life, which resume the Life of Nature and
the powers hidden in the words I.N.R.I.”
As we know, I.N.R.I. is Igne Natura Renovatur Integra
—the entire nature is renewed by fire. It represents
the three phases of universal generation—creation, de­
struction, and regeneration. The signs given are L.V.X.
representing the same idea. Further explaining L.V.X.,
the same ritual says: Having arrived at the door of the
tomb,
" upon more closely examining the door you will perceive . . . that
beneath the CXX in the inscription were placed the characters
L.V.X., the whole being equivalent to ‘ Post CXX Annos Lux
Crucis Patebo ’—at the end of 120 years I the light of the Cross
will disclose myself. For the letters L.V.X. are made from the
dismembered and conjoined angles of a cross + .”
54 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Moreover, the Rosicrucians were learned cabalists,
and Adolphe Franck, in La Kabbale, quotes Simon ben
Jochai in the Zohar, speaking of the Ancient of Days,
the first of the Sephiroth on the Tree of Life:
" He is seated on a throne of sparks which he subjects to
his will. . . . From his head he shakes a dew which awakens the
dead and gives birth within them to a new life. That is why it
is written: ‘ Thy dew is a dew of light. It is the nourishment of
the saints of the highest order. It is the manna prepared for
the just for the life to come. It descends into the fields of the
sacred fruits (adepts of the Cabala). The aspect of this dew is
white as a diamond, whose colour includes all colours.' ”
This dew is the “ Divine White Light or Brilliance ” of
the Rosicrucians, the magnetic fluid of their magic. Fur­
thermore, it is said in the same R.R. et A.C. ritual:
“ Colours are forces and the signature of forces, and
Child of the Children of Forces art thou, and, therefore,
about the throne of the Mighty One is a rainbow of
Glory and at his feet is the Crystal Sea.” It is the
force of Illuminism, a light of Nature!
Again, Jane Lead, chief inspiration of the Panacea
Society, speaking of the properties of the Cabalistic Tree
of Life, describes the fifth as: “ The sweetness of tlje
dew, which lies always upon the branches of the Tree.
... It is all paradisical (or illuminating) power.” This
same power, magnetic fluid, is the basis of their Rosi-
crucian universal remedy. Moreover, according to the
writer of The Mysteries of the Rosie Cross: “A remark­
able work was published in Strasbourg in the year 1616,
entitled, The Hermetic Romance, or the Chymical Wed­
ding. Written in High Dutch by Christian Rosencreutz.
This book . . . is said to have existed in manuscript . . .
as far back in fact as 1601, thus making it the oldest
Rosicrucian book extant.” Some say it was the work
of Valentin Andrea; in any case, it appears to depict
the adept's union with the Universal agent, and it is
possible that the whole legend of Christian Rosenkreutz
merely represents the same mystical idea as found among
all yogis and mystics, awakening mysterious powers.
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUMINES 55
As Gustave Bord wrote:
“ In all times there were secret sects who claimed to under­
stand the laws which regulate the Universe; some believed they
really possessed the ineffable secret; others, the clever ones, made
their mysteries a lure for the crowd, claiming thus to dominate and
lead it; at least they found the way to utilise it to their profit.”
In the Preface to a curious book, The Long Livers, by
Robert Samber, writing- under the pseudonym “ Eugenius
Philalethes Junior,” which was dedicated to the Grand
Lodge of London in 1722, and has been referred to by
the Masonic historians Mackay, Whytehead, and Yarker,
it is clearly indicated that above the three traditional
grades there is an illumination and a hierarchy, whose
nature is not revealed, but the language used is entirely
that of alchemy and Rose-Croix. Louis Daste, speaking
of Freemasonry in the French Revolution, remarks:
“ This mysterious illumination of the low grades of Masonry,
this hierarchy of which Philalethes Junior has so jealously guarded
the secret, those ‘ Unknown Superiors ’ venerated by the Judaising
Martinists and Philalethes, who claim domination over ordinary
lodges—is not all that the unbreakable chain which links the Jewish
Cabala to Freemasonry, and have we not henceforth the right to
suspect the Occult Power hidden behind the Masonic Lodges to
be the brain of Judaism which would conquer and dominate the
entire world?”
M a r t i n e s d e P a s q u a l l y
In his book on the Order of the Elus Coens of the
eighteenth century, R. le Forestier tells us that this Order
was founded—continuing as Martinists to-day—about
1760, by Martines de Pasqually, said to be a Portuguese
Jew. It was one of the most interesting occult groups
of the time, “ which constituted under cover of Free­
masonry one of the last links of the long chain of
mysterious and jealously closed associations whose
members claimed by magical processes to communicate
with the divine in order to participate in a blessed im-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
56
mortality ”—Illuminism! The name Coen given by Pas-
qually to his members is an adaptation of the Hebrew
term Cohanim, which designated the highest sacerdotal
caste, constituted at Jerusalem, under Solomon, to assure
divine service in the Temple; they were said to be de­
scended in a direct line from Aaron. The Coens thus
claimed to be heirs and depositories of the secret Jewish
tradition. Pasqually built up a curious metaphysical and
mystic system, “ borrowed from secret traditions, it
represented a weak but very clear echo of the diverse
esoteric doctrines originating in the East during the early
centuries of our era after adopting other more ancient
traditions, and which later penetrated the West through
the intermediary of the Jewish Cabala.” His disciples
were the successors of the mystes of Asia, Egypt, Greece,
and Italy, of the Valentinians, Orphics, and followers of
Mithras; they professed the mystic doctrines of the Neo-
Platonists, Gnostics, and Cabalists, and cultivated at the
time of the Encyclopedia, the “ Secret Wisdom of the
Ancients.”
The Theoretical Cabala, as we know, treats of
the nature of the Deity, his relations with man, and
the origin of the world. The Practical or Magical
Cabala, on the other hand, dealt with “ dynamistic and
theurgic magic, taught the art of commanding spirits,
divining the future, clairvoyance from a distance, and
making amulets.” In its mystic currents were found the
influence of Chaldean astrology and demonology, Ionic
natural philosophy, Mazdean, Manichaean, Sabean, and
Mithraic concepts, also Pythagorean arithmetic and
geometry. It was a residue of the primitive cults founded
on “ fluidic Magic ”—the magical magnetic fluid of the
alchemists, Rosicrucians, and Illumines—-and which still,
during the Captivity, persisted in the Babylonian and
Persian religions. In the seventeenth century J. B. van
Helmont, in his Hortus Medicine, wrote: “ A magical
force, sent asleep by sin, is latent in man; it can be
awakened by the grace of God or by the art of the
Cabala.” It is the awakening of the kundalini by magical
processes or yoga! These theurgic rites of the Practical
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 57
Cabala had existed until the eighteenth century in the
heart of the Jewish sects connected with the Frankists,
so widespread in Central Europe.
Finally, le Forestier says that the theurgic process,
advocated particularly by the Practical Cabala, was
founded on the marvellous power of divine names; it is
derived from one of the fundamentals of all kinds of
magic, going back to remotest times. Pasqually also
emphasised this idea, familiar to cabalists, that the name
above all manifests its power when pronounced in a loud
voice. Here we have the “ vibratory mode of pronounc­
ing divine names,” used in the Stella Matutina and the
R.R. et A.C., a Martinist Order, which their obligations
command should never be revealed! The power is greatly
increased, as in magical conjurations, by pronouncing
the name together with all its correspondences as shown in
Crowley’s book 777. Further, the operations of the
Coens, with their diagrams, lustrations, burning of
incense, prostrations, invocations, and conjurations,
manifestly show the magical ceremonials to which the
disciples of Pasqually devoted themselves. We find the
same operations in the S.M. and the R.R. et A.C. to-day.
To turn to Eliphas Levi, another and later Martinist,
who writes in his History of Magic:
“ Moreover, the law of equilibrium in analogy leads to the
discovery of a universal agent which was the Great Secret of the
alchemists and magicians of the Middle Ages. It has been said
that this agent is a light of life by which animated beings are
rendered magnetic, electricity being only a transient perturbation.
The practice of that marvellous Kabalah reposes entirely in the
knowledge and use of this agent. Practical Magic alone opens the
secret Temple of Nature to that power of human will which is
ever limited but ever progressive.”
The Zohar, he says, is a genesis of light (of nature).
The Sepher Yetzirah is the ladder of accomplishment and
application; it has thirty-two steps—ten Sephiroth or
centres of light, and twenty-two paths or canals linking
the Sephiroth, and through which the light or magical
fluid flows. It is the Cabalistic Tree of Life. Applied,
as it is in cabalistic and magical Orders, to the Microcosm
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
58
or man’s brain and nervous system, it is full of danger
and illusion, mental, moral, and physical. Eliphas Levi
further says that the science of fire and its ruling was
the secret of the Magi, giving them mastery over the
occult powers of nature; “ On every side we meet with
the enchanter who slays the lion and controls the ser­
pents. The lion is the celestial (cosmic or starry) fire,
while the serpents are the electric and magnetic currents
of the earth. To this same secret of the Magi are
referable all marvels of Hermetic Magic.”
Finally, these controlling “ Supermen ” behind the
scenes are, it would seem, past-masters in the know­
ledge and working of this Practical Cabala built up
from cults of the remotest past. Is it not, therefore,
justifiable to suppose that these Supermen are magic­
working, cabalistic, and revolutionary Jews ?
P e r n e t y
Joanny Bricaud, in Les Illumines d’Avignon, 1927,
gives us some curious details on the growth of this
movement:
“ Strange thing! The era of the Encyclopedists and philo­
sophers was also the era of the prophets and the thaumaturgists.
In face with Voltaire, Diderot, d’Alembert, incredulous and sceptic,
arose Swedenborg, Martines de Pasqually, Saint-Martin, Mesmer,
and Cagliostro, founders of mystic groups given up to every
practice of theurgy, magic, and illuminism.”
As said by Bricaud, Dom Pernety, the founder of
the Avignon group, was born at Roanne, in Forez, 1716,
and became a Benedictine of Saint-Maur. Whilst at the
Abbey-Saint-Germain-des-Pres, he came across many
books on Hermetic lore and Alchemy, and became thor­
oughly inoculated with this fever of the age. Finding
monastic life intolerable, he threw it up and went to
Avignon, where he founded his Hermetic Rite, 1766.
Later we see him in Berlin, still keeping in touch with his
adepts. Gradually his hermeticism became invaded by
the mysticism of Swedenborg and Boehme, he became
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 59
a seer and illumine, having as guide a so-called Angel
Assadai, receiving communications from an invisible
power known as Sainte-Parole.
M. Bricaud further says that there exists in the
Bibliotheque Calvet at Avignon, a strange manuscript
of 155 pages in Pernety’s own handwriting, which was
seized in his house during the Revolution. It dates from
Berlin, 1779-1783, and Avignon, 1783-1785, and is an
account of the evocations and questions of his initiates
to this Sainte-Parole and the replies of that power. The
initiates are inscribed by occult numbers, which form
the basis of their cabalistic operations, when consulting
Sainte-Parole. Nothing was done without the approval of
this unknown power. As Weishaupt has said: “ We
cannot use men as they are; they must be shaped accord­
ing to the use that is to be made of them.” In the same
way Pernety and his initiates were tested, admonished,
and bemused until the power obtained absolute faith and
obedience from them. They were consecrated on a hill
above Berlin, regenerated, and illuminised; Pernety was
destined to found a society for the “ new people of God,”
and build a new city in preparation for a “ new heaven
and new earth.” He was to be the centre and pontiff,
and another adept, Comte Grabianka, was to be king.
The six-year-old daughter of the latter was to be isolated
from parents and country for seven years to be prepared
as oracle through whom he was to rule. Finally, the
temple called Thabor was established near Avignon, and
the group became known as the Illumines d’Avignon.
Their cult was absolutely secret, and in a general way
their ideas were those of Swedenborg, but they also pro­
fessed a cult of the Virgin, apparently the Great Mother
of the Gnostics. Don Pernety died in 1796, and the last
survivors entered Martinism.
S a i n t -M a r t i n
Martinist Illuminism was founded, as we have seen,
by Martines de Pasqually, who taught the doctrine of
reintegration; from 1754 to 1768 he propagated his
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
6o
higher grades among the Masonic Lodges of France.
M. de Maistre, in 1810, wrote that the Martinists had
a cult and higher initiates or priests called by the Hebrew
name of Cohen, and he observed that all these great
initiates took part in the Revolution, though not to
excess. Saint-Martin, the unknown philosopher, was
Pasqually’s disciple and later considerably developed the
movement, establishing his Loge magonnique des Che­
valiers de la bienfaisance at Lyons. According to Louis
Blanc:
“ Martinism made rapid progress in Paris; it reigned in
Avignon; at Lyons it had a centre whence it radiated to Germany
and Russia. Grafted on Freemasonry, the new doctrines consti­
tuted a rite which was composed of ten grades . . . through
which the adepts had successively to pass; and numerous schools
were formed with the sole aim of finding the key to the mystic
code and spreading it. Thus, from one book (Des Erreurs et de
la Verite par un philosophe inconnu) arose a vast crowd of . . .
efforts which contributed to enlarge the mine dug under old insti­
tutions.” [He adds:] “ In the name of pious spiritualism the un­
known philosopher rises up against the folly of human cults. By
paths of allegory he leads to the heart of the Mysterious Kingdom
which man in his primitive state had inhabited.”
The Illumines, organised under the law of secrecy,
exercised important influences in revolutionary move­
ments, and both Martinists and Swedenborgians allied
themselves to the Illuminati of Weishaupt, as seen in
the Wilhelmsbad Convent of 1782, the object of which
was thus expressed by a horrified delegate, the Comte
de Virieu who had been deceived by Saint-Martin’s
mysticism: “ There is a conspiracy being plotted so well
planned and so deep that it will be very difficult for reli­
gion and governments not to succumb to it.”
In the Rituel de VOrdre Martiniste, edited by Teder,
1913, the adept of the third degree is warned not to
reveal the mysteries:
“ But if, by the power of thy freewill and the blessing of the
Divine One, thou shalt arrive at contemplating the Truth face to
face, remember that thou must keep silence on the Mystery that
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 61
thou hast penetrated, even should thy fidelity cost thy life. Ever
remember the fate of the Great Initiators who have, even with
the best of intentions, tried to raise, before the multitude, a corner
of the sacred Veil of Isis.”
“ Here follows a few named: Jesus, Jacques Molay,
Paracelsus, Cazotte, Cagliostro, Saint-Martin, Wronski,
Eliphas Levi, Saint-Yves d’Alveydre, and hundreds of
others. And they continue: “ Shouldst thou reveal the
least of the Secret Arts or any part of the hidden mys­
teries that meditation may have led thee to understand,
there is no physical torture that is not sweet compared
to the punishment that thy folly shall bring upon thee/’
No material symbol can express the horror of annihila­
tion both spiritual as well as physical which awaits the
miserable revealer of the True Word, for God [mV] is
without mercy, for whosoever may profane His sanctuary
and brutally expose to unworthy eyes the unspeakable
Secret.
Finally, the Superior Inconnu in the Second Temple
has to swear to “ work with all my strength to establish
on earth, the Association of all Interests (Profits), the
Federation of all Nations, the Alliance of all cults and
Universal Solidarity.” In 1913 “ Papus,” Dr. G.
Encausse, was Grand Master and President of the
Supreme Council of the Martinists.
S w e d e n b o r g
As for Swedenborgianism, in Les Sectes et Societes
Secretes, from the pen of Le Couteulx de Canteleu, we
find a short but interesting sketch of Swedenborg and
his systems: Emanuel Swedenborg was the son of a
Lutheran Bishop of Skara in Sweden, and was born in
Upsala about 1688. In 1743 he began to spread his
beliefs, a mixture of mysticism, magnetism, and magic.
As with all such doctrines, he had two systems: one for
dupes and fools which was apparently to reform Christi­
anity by a fantastic deism, the reigning faith in his New
Jerusalem; his followers believed in his marvellous
visions and prophecies, his talks with angels and spirits.
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
6 2
The other led straight to godlessness, atheism, and
materialism, where, as in Hermeticism, God was only a
sun, a spirit of Light, a spiritual heat vivifying the body.
To these latter he represented his doctrine as being that
of the Egyptians and the Magi, and these adepts went
whole-hearted for the Revolution as restoring to man
his primitive Equality and Liberty.
In England alone he had 20,000 such followers in
1780, Avho looked for the Revolution to overthrow all
other beliefs; Swedenborg’s God was to be the only King
left! In Avignon he had many adepts who mingled with
the Martinists, being known as illuminated Theosophists,
and among these were found the same vows in favour
of an anti-social, anti-religious Revolution.
In a Foreword to one of Emanuel Swedenborg’s
books on The Doctrine of the New Church—the New
Jerusalem, translated in 1797, from the Latin of the
Amsterdam edition of 1769, it is said in expLnation of
this doctrine:
“ To be at the same time in the natural world and in the
spiritual world, to live in the former in the society of men, and
find oneself in the latter in the society of the angels, to see them,
to speak with them, to hear them, to move in a kingdom of spiritual
substances; here, doubtless, is more than is needed to disconcert
the materialistic understanding of the wise men of to-day.”
It is, therefore, not surprising that de Luchet considered
that “ Theosophists, Swedenborgians, Magnetusers and
Illumines were a national danger.”
T e m p l a r s
As the French Revolution approached, the ground,
it was found, was being mined and prepared for the
sinister upheaval of 1789 by, among others, the still
active power of the former Order of the Templars.
EHphas Levi informs us that, although outwardly
Catholics, the secret cult of the Templars was Johannism,
and their secret aim was to rebuild the Temple of
Solomon on the model of the vision of Ezekiel—the arms
of the Masons of the Temple, quarterly a lion, ox, man,
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUMINES 63
and eagle, were the banners of the four leading Hebrew
tribes. The Johannites, who were cabalists and gnostics,
adopted part of the Jewish traditions and Talmudic
accounts; they regarded the facts of the Gospels as alle­
gories of which St. John had the key; their Grand Pon­
tiffs assumed the title of Christ. In time the Templars
became a danger to Church and State, menacing the
entire world with a gigantic revolution, and they were
eventually suppressed. As the high Mason Albert Pike
wrote, in Morals and Dogmas:
" The Order disappeared at once. . . . Nevertheless it lived
under other names and governed by Unknown Chiefs, revealing
itself only to those who in passing through a series of degrees had
proven themselves worthy to be entrusted with the dangerous
secret. . . . The secret movers of the French Revolution had
sworn to overturn the Throne and Altar upon the tomb of Jacques
de Molai.”
According to Louis Blanc, in his History of the
French Revolution, 1848, Cagliostro was initiated at
Frankfort, 1781, under the authority of “ the Grand
Masters of the Templars,” the Illuminati of Weishaupt,
from whom he received instructions and funds to carry
out their diabolical intrigues against Marie Antoinette
in preparation for the later seizure of power through the
illuminised Grand Orient Lodges. Speaking of Weis-
haupt’s projects, Louis Blanc wrote:
“ By the sole attraction of mystery, by the sole power of
association, to subject to the same will, to animate with the same
breath thousands of men in every country in the world . . . to
make new beings of these men by means of slow gradual education,
to render them, even to the point of frenzy or death, obedient to
invisible and Unknown Chiefs; with such a legion to secretly
weigh upon the Court, to surround the sovereigns, unbeknown to
direct Governments, and to lead Europe to that point where all
superstition is annihilated, all monarchies brought down, all privi­
leges of birth declared unjust, the right even of property abolished;
such was the gigantic plan of the founders of Illuminism.”
In Orthodoxie Magonnique, 1853, the Jew and
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
64
Masonic authority, J. M. Ragon, gives details of the two
grades of the Order “ Juges Philosophes Inconnus,” a
Templar regime. He places these as belonging, probably,
to the “ Order of Christ,” an Order which, after the sup­
pression of the Templars, was constituted in Portugal
by King Denis, and into which reformed Templars were
admitted, without, however, their former immunities
and entirely dependent on the Head of the State. It is
admitted that modern Templars have used the veil of
Masonry as being better for spreading their ideas, but
it is Masonic only in form. The jewel of the adept is
a dagger and his work is vengeance. The Novice grade
of these “ Philosophes Inconnus ” is the first in the last
grade of Masonry—Kadosch, 30th degree—the brother
must be at least Rose-Croix (18th degree) and already
instructed in the royal art. The President addresses
him:
“ . . . You were for long the object of our observation and
our study . . . as soon as you have taken your new obligation you
will cease to belong to yourself; your life, even, will have become
the property of the Order. The most absolute obedience, the
entire abnegation of your will, the prompt execution, without
reflection, of the orders which will be transmitted to you on the
part of the Supreme Power, such will be your principal duties.
The most terrible punishments are reserved for perjurers . . .
and who is a perjurer in the eyes of the Order? He who even
in the lightest thing infringes the orders which he has received
from the Chief or refuses to execute them, for nothing is un­
important in our sublime Order. . . . Your employment in the
future will be to form men. . . . You must learn here how the
feet and hands of those who usurp the rights of men can be
bound; you must learn to govern men and dominate them, not by
fear, but by virtue [sic]. You must consecrate yourself entirely
to the Order which has undertaken to re-establish man in his
primitive dignity. . . . The secret Government, but not less
powerful, must lead other Governments towards this noble aim
without, however, allowing itself to be perceived except through
the universal opinion and assent of society. There exists a con­
siderable number of our brothers; we are spread throughout most
distant lands, all led by an invisible force. . . . If you desire only
to be a perjurer and a false brother, do not pledge yourself among
ROSICRUCIANS AND ILLUM INES 65
us, you will be cursed and unhappy; our vengeance will reach you
everywhere.”
If he hesitates, he is blindfolded and led out; if he con­
sents, he takes the obligation and is received. After
three years of study and preparation the final grade,
Juge-Commandeur, may be given. He then takes
another obligation, in which he promises and swears to
work for the propagation of the Order and its safety,
to obey his Superiors in all ways, whether they are known
to him or not. Finally, it is said to him:
“ You swear and promise to keep inviolable the secrets I am
going to confide to you; never to pardon traitors, and to subject
them to the fate that the Order reserves for them. . . . To guard
yourself from the excesses of wine, the table, and women, the
ordinary causes of indiscretion and weakness ” [in case of be­
traying Order secrets!].
At the end of both grades a portion of an abridged
history of the destruction of the Knight Templars is
read to the adept. And of their Order it was said:
“ It can no longer be denied that in early times we have never
recognised more than five degrees of knowledge; the number
twenty-five or thirty-three degrees which form the frame of
Scottish Masonry is the result of the love of innovations or the
product of self-esteem; for it is certain that of the thirty-three
degrees practised to-day there are twenty-eight apocryphal which
merit no confidence.”
In their regulations, Article 32 says:
“ The penalties against the brothers who have been guilty of
any offence whatsoever are: reprimand, expulsion, and even
graver penalties if the crime compromises the Society. Sentences
of the last nature cannot be executed without confirmation of judg­
ment by the Supreme Power.”
In his final discourse upon the unhappy fate of the
Templars, the Chief of the Philosophes Inconnus said:
“ . . . Now as the number of Templars escaped from the
murderous sword of persecution was very small, also as, in order
5
6 6 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
to avenge the unheard-of crime of which they had been victims,
it was necessary to repair their losses, they admitted into their
Order men of recognised merit, whom they sought for and found
among the Masons. . . . They offered them initiation into their
Order, which was eagerly accepted, and in exchange the Templars
were initiated into the Masonic mysteries/’
In conclusion we give two passages from Le
Couteulx de Canteleu, who in his well-documented book
refers to the trial of the Templars:
“ Certainly, far be it from me the thought to defend the cruel
procedure followed against several members of the Order and
the torture applied during interrogations; far from me the thought
to believe all the absurdities of which they were accused. But in
the midst of all these cruelties and all these infamies, the founda­
tion of the accusation was true; they knew it, and that was what
made more than 300 members, not yet subjected to torture, admit
facts which appeared to us so extraordinary, but which were
understood when one knew the foundation of their doctrine,
revived from Egyptian and Hebraic initiations, also their affilia­
tion to the Freemasons of the East (the Assassins), and the vices
that the Grand Masters had permitted to be introduced into the
Order, so as, probably, to increase their power.”
He also regarded as positive that the Templar Guillaume
de Monthard received Masonic initiation from the Old
Man of the Mountain in a cave in Lebanon, and that
the Assassins held some of the beliefs of the Ophites,
serpent or dual-sex worshippers, hence, he says,
Baphometl Again he said that Pope Clement V was
slow to believe in this formidable heresy:
“ It was only after having seventy-two Knights interrogated
in his presence, as a man interested in finding them innocent,
exacting no other oath from them but to reply to the questions
asked; it was only after their admissions, given in the presence of
notaries, that he was forced to recognise their guilt and revoke
the suspension (previously ordered) of the Bishops, allowing
them to pursue the arrangements made by Philippe le Bel in
order to come to a judgment.”
CHAPTER IV
W EISHAUPT’S ILLUMINATI AND THE
FRENCH REVOLUTION
W r i t i n g of the Illuminati in his Essai sur la secte des
Illumines, published in 1789, the Mason de Luchet says:
“ There are a certain number of people who have arrived at
the highest degree of imposture. They have conceived the project
of reigning over opinions, and of conquering, not kingdoms, nor
provinces, but the human mind. This project is gigantic, and has
something of madness in it, which causes neither alarm nor un­
easiness; but when we descend to details, when we regard what
passes before our eyes of the hidden principles, when we perceive
a sudden revolution in favour of ignorance and incapacity, we
must look for the cause of it; and if we find that a revealed and
known system explains all the phenomena which succeed each other
with terrifying rapidity, how can we not believe it ? . . . Observe
that the members of the Mystical Confederation are numerous
enough in themselves, but not relatively so to the men they must
deceive. . . . Indeed, to realise this proportion one must get a
just idea of the force of combined man (was not Mazzini’s cry,
‘ Associate, Associate ’?). A thread cannot raise a pound’s weight,
a thousand threads will raise the anchor of a ship . . . also man
is a feeble being, imperfect . . . but if several men mix together
half-qualities they temper and strengthen each other . . . the
weak yield to the stronger, the most skilful draw from each what
he can supply. Some watch whilst others act, and this formidable
ensemble arrives at its goal, whatever it may be. . . . It was
according to this that the sect of the Illuminati was formed. One
cannot, it is true, either name its founders or prove the epochs
of its existence, or mark the steps of its growth, for its essence
is the secret; its acts take place in darkness, its evasive Grand
Priests are lost in the crowd. However, it has penetrated suffi­
cient things to astonish and draw the attention of observers,
friends of humanity, to the mysterious steps of the sectaries.”
Jean Adam Weishaupt, founder of the Order of the
Illuminati, was born at Ingolstadt, Bavaria, 6 February,
67
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
68
1748, according to R. le Forestier’s book, Les Illumines
de Baidere et la Franc-Magonnerie Allemande, 1914,
from which we take the following details: His father,
who was then professor at the University there, had
married a niece of Mme Ickstatt, whose husband was
Curator of the same University. In 1756 Baron Ickstatt
secured a scholarship for their son Adam, at the Jesuit
College, Ingolstadt, who when fifteen entered the Univer­
sity as a student of Law, steeping himself at the same
time in the literature of the atheist philosophers of the
day. The electors of Bavaria were firm supporters of
the Catholic faith, and Ingolstadt gradually became a
stronghold of Jesuit teaching from 1556 until they were
suppressed by Clement XIV in 1773; even then, for want
of other qualified men, they were retained in the chairs
of Theology. The University of Ingolstadt and all
equivalent to secondary schools in Bavaria had been
placed in the hands of the Jesuits. It was in 1775 that
Weishaupt, then Professor of Canon Law at Ingolstadt,
“ formed the plan of an association of which he would
be the head . . . which would oppose to the united forces
of superstition and lies (religion) groups more and more
numerous of libre-pensee and progress.”
He and his collaborators believed “ that the adver­
saries of all progress, intellectual and moral, were the
priests and monks . . . desiring to fight against the State
religion, and, above all, the most vigilant soldiers of
Catholicism, the Jesuits, it was necessary to conceal the
existence of the Order. . . . Historians who have seen in
the Order of the Illuminati a war-machine invented by a
former pupil of the Jesuits in order to fight them with
their own weapons, are, therefore, not far wrong.” Rene
Fiilop-Miller, in his book The Power and Secret of the
Jesuits, 1930, supports this opinion. He tells us that the
Encyclopcedists “made use of many of the ideas of the
Jesuits in order to build from them a revolutionary
philosophy inimical to all the beliefs of the Church.”
And again he says:
“ Besides the Freemasons, there rose up a kindred association,
the *Order of the Illuminati,’ which from the very beginning, was
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 6 9
intended as an anti-Jesuit organisation. Its founder, Weishaupt,
a professor of Ingolstadt, heartily hated the Jesuits, and formed
his league of Illuminati with the express intention ‘ of using for
good ends the means which the Jesuit order had employed for
bad ’; this means consisted mainly in the introduction of an
obligation of unconditional obedience, reminiscent of Loyola’s
Constitutions', of a far-reaching mutual surveillance among the
membership of the order; and a kind of auricular confession,
which every inferior had to make to his superior.”
Of the Jewish power in these secret societies, Bernard
Lazare, in VAntisemitisme, 1894, writes:
“ It is certain that there were Jews at the cradle of Free­
masonry—cabalistic Jews, as is proved by certain existing rites;
very probably during the years which preceded the French Revolu­
tion they entered in still greater numbers into the councils of the
society, and themselves founded secret societies. There were Jews
around Weishaupt; and Martinez Paschalis, a Jew of Portuguese
origin, organised numerous groups of Illumines in France.”
In a number of La Vieille France, 31 March-6 April,
1921, it was stated that five Jews were concerned in the
organisation and inspiration of the Illuminati—Wessely,
Moses Mendelssohn, and the bankers, Itzig, Friedlander
and Meyer. Further it is curious to find that the im­
portant Illuminatus Mirabeau, under the influence of
Mendelssohn’s disciples, wrote a book, On Moses
Mendelssohn; on the Political Reform of the Jews, 1787.
Freemasonry ended in playing a considerable role in
the Order of the Illuminati. Weishaupt was affiliated to
it in 1777, and in 1778 decided to link his Order with
Freemasonry. In the Greater Mysteries two grades were
extremely important, those of Priest and Regent. “ The
College of Priests should constitute in the order a
seminary of atheists ... the grade of Regent corresponded
in politics to that of Priest in religion.” “ Weishaupt,
however, considered it as “ incomparably less important
than the latter.” At the summit of the hierarchy was the
Supreme College of the Areopagites, held, according to
Weishaupt, at Munich, being composed of seven members,
three of whom were principals.
70 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Further, Weishaupt, among other regulations, stated
that without special permission, “ Jews, pagans, women,
monks, and members of other societies were excluded from
the Order.” As regards Jews, Louis Daste speaks of
documents showing that, although early English Masonic
Lodges admitted all religions, later the secret chiefs of
Masonry in Holland, Germany, and France, because of
transitory obstacles, reserved their lodges for Christians
only. But at the Wilhelmsbad Congress, 1782, it was
resolved that Jews should no longer be excluded from the
Lodges. There is a mass, however, of evidence to prove
the Jew influence upon and behind all secret societies, and
as Disraeli said in Lothair in 1870:
“ If you mean by political freedom the schemes of the
Illuminati and the Freemasons which perpetually torture the
Continent, all the dark conspiracies of the secret societies, then I
admit the Church is in antagonism with such aspirations after
liberty. . . . The civil powers have separated from the Church.
. . . It is not their choice; they are urged on by an invisible
power that is anti-Christian, and which is the true, natural, and
implacable enemy of the one visible and Universal Church.”
In Marie-Antoinette et le Complot Magonnique,
1910, Louis Daste quotes a rare brochure, The Role of
Freemasonry in the X V IIIth Centuryj by F .:. Brunel-
liere, which says:
“ Weishaupt aimed at nothing less than the complete over­
throw of authority, nationality, and the whole social system, in a
word, the suppression of property, etc. . . . As to his principle,
it was absolute and blind obedience, universal espionage, the end
justifies the means. This system of conspiracy so strongly
organised which would have upheaved the world, spread through
Germany, where it seized almost all the Masonic Lodges. Weis­
haupt sent to France Joseph Balsamo, so-called Comte Cagliostro,
to illuminise French Masonry. Finally he assembled a Congress
at Wilhelmsbad in 1782, to which he convoked all German and
foreign lodges. . . . In 1785 the Illuminati were revealed to the
Bavarian Government, who, terrified, appealed to all Governments,
but the Protestant Princes showed little haste in suppressing it.
Weishaupt found refuge with the Prince de Saxe-Gotha. He had
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 71
for the rest taken great care not to tell everything to the Princes,
or even to many of his initiates; he had hidden from them the
appeal to the force of the masses; he had hidden from them the
Revolution ” (Masonic report, VOrdre de Nantes, 23 April, 1883).
The Bavarian Government's suspicions, according to le
Forestier, were seriously aroused, and by continued
search Zwack’s papers connected with the Order, and
those held by Bassus, were found and seized on two
separate occasions. These were ordered by the Elector
to be published as follows:
1. On 26 March, 1787:
“ Some original writings of the Order of the Illuminati found
at the house of Zwack, former Government Councillor, during a
perquisition made at Landshut, 11 and 12 October, 1786, and
published by order of his Electoral Highness.”
The Preface invited all those who doubted the authenticity
of the documents to go to the Privy Archives where the
original documents would be shown to them.
2. “ Supplement to the original writings concerning in general
the Sect of the Illuminati and in particular its founder, Adam
Weishaupt, former professor at Ingolstadt, documents found in
the Castle of Baron Bassus at Sandersdorf during the perquisition
carried out in this celebrated den of the Illuminati, published
immediately by order of the Elector and deposited in the Privy
Archives to be examined by all those who showed the desire to
do so.” (Two Parts, Munich 1787.)
Outwardly finished, the Illuminati still continued
their underground mining.
As told by Cretineau-Joly, Cardinal Caprara, in a
confidential memoire, October 1787, said: “ The danger
approaches, for from all these mad dreams of Illuminism,
Swedenborgianism and Freemasonry, there must evolve a
terrifying reality. The visionaries have their day, the
revolution which they forebode will have its day.”
It was into the lodges of the Amis reunis that
Mirabeau and Bonneville introduced Weishaupt's Illu­
minati. One of its chiefs was the famous revolutionary
Savalette de Langes, Keeper of the Royal Treasure, but
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
72
secretly deep in every mystery and lodge, and all plots
against religion and Royalty. They called themselves
Philalethes—seekers of Truth; it was a form of Martin-
ism, and, according to Clavel, led to the deification of
man, being a mixture of the dogmas of Swedenborg and
de Pasqualis. To cover his intrigues, Savalette de
Langes at times gave up the common Lodge to adepts,
brothers, and sisters of high rank, who danced and sang
of equality and liberty, while unknown to them, in the
upper Lodge, was the secret committee guarded above
and below by two freres terribles. Among the principal
members of this committee were Willermoz, Chappe de
la Heuziere, Mirabeau, Comte de Gebelin, and Bonne­
ville. There the codified correspondence of the Grand
Orient was received by Savalette de Langes and dealt
with by the Committee, To be admitted to these councils
they had to swear, as Chevalier du Soleil, hatred to Chris­
tianity and, as Chevalier kadosch, hatred to Crowns and
Papacy. They had a branch in Paris, and this was fre­
quented by Saint-Germain, Raymond, Cagliostro, Con-
dorcet, Dietrich, brothers of Avignon, and students of
Swedenborg and Saint-Martin. Outside they passed as
charlatans, visionaries, evoking spirits and working
prodigies, while secretly searching out accomplices in the
Masonic Lodges.
Consorting with the chief disciples of Weishaupt,
Mirabeau was initiated in Brunswick into the final
Mysteries of Illuminism. Already he knew the value of
Masonry in revolution, and on his return to France he
introduced these mysteries among the Philalethes. It
was then decided to illuminise all the lodges of France;
for this purpose the Illuminati, Bode, or Aurelius, and
Baron de Busche or Bayard, pupil of Knigge, were
deputed to assist. After much discussion it was resolved
to adopt the Bavarian mysteries without changing the
old forms of the lodges, to illuminise them without re­
vealing the name of the sect from whom the mysteries
were received, and only to use Weishaupt’s code in so far
as it would hasten the revolution (Le Couteplx; de
Canteleu).
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 73
From then the political aim was accentuated, a new
grade was added, preserving Masonic emblems and rites,
and this was passed on to the provinces. The closest
alliance was concluded, and a general Convent of Masons
in France and abroad was convoked by the secret com­
mittee for 15 February, 1785. Savalette de Langes was
elected president, and among the deputies were: Saint-
Germain, Saint-Martin, Etrilla, Mesmer, Cagliostro,
Mirabeau and Talleyrand, Bode, Dalberg, Baron de
Gleichen, Lavater, Prince Louis de Hesse, and also
deputies from the Grand Orients of Poland and
Lithuania. The Due d’Orleans was then Grand Master
of the Grand Orient of France, and'his committee had
under its jurisdiction and orders lodges of 282 towns in
France and abroad (Mirabeau). At this Congress the
French Revolution and its propagation throughout
Europe was resolved upon even to the decree of regicide.
The part, according to Mirabeau, to be taken by the
people is thus described in his Memoires by Marmontel:
“ Have we to fear the great part of the nation which knows not
our projects, and would not be disposed to lend us their support?
. . . If they disapprove of them, it will be only timidly, without
clamour. For the rest, does the nation know what it wants?
We will make it want and say what it has never thought of. . . .
The nation is a large herd which thinks only of browsing, and
which, with good dogs, the shepherds lead at will. . . . One will
have to impose upon the bourgeoisie who sees nothing to lose,
but all to gain by the change. To stir it up one has the most
powerful motives: poverty, hunger, money, rumours of alarm and
fear, the frenzy of terror and rage with which we will strike their
minds. . . . What will we do with all this people while muzzling
their principles of honesty and justice? Good men are feeble and
timid; it is the blackguards who are determined. It is advan­
tageous to people during revolutions to have no morals . . . there
is not a single one of our old virtues which can serve us. . . .
All that is necessary for revolution, all that is useful to it is just—
that is the great principle.”
About the beginning of the revolution a manifesto
was issued from the committee of the Grand Orient
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
74
addressed to all Masonic Lodges and Councils, to be
used throughout Europe. By it
“ all the lodges were summoned to league together to unite their
efforts for the maintenance of the Revolution, everywhere to seek
followers, friends, and protectors, to propagate its flame, to stir
up its spirit, to excite zeal and ardour for it in all countries and
by all means in their power.”
After the receipt of this manifesto anti-Monarchy
and Republican ideas everywhere became dominant, and
anti-religious ideas were used only to undermine
nationalities (Deschamps, Les Societes Secretes et la
Soctete, vol. ii).
The Jew and high Mason, Cremieux, founder and
president of L’Alliance-israelite-universelle, said in his
manifesto, i860:
“ The net which Israel now casts over the terrestrial globe
enlarges and extends. . . . Our power is immense; learn to turn
that power to our cause. The day is not far distant when all the
riches, all the treasures of the earth, will become the property of
the children of Israel.”
In his book Marie-Antoinette et le complot magon-
nique, Louis Daste shows how that net was spread before
and after the French Revolution of 1789. He writes:
“ From 1774 to 1783 we have seen Masonry unceasingly
cover Marie-Antoinette with the mud of its pamphlets.
The hour approached when the sect was to strike the blow
from which the Queen died.”
It was the Affair of the Necklace which was, accord­
ing to G. Bord, “ organised by the Stride Observance
and the Amis reunis of Paris.” “ The Jew Cagliostro,”
said ex-Mason Doinel 33°, “ was the contemptible agent
of this intrigue in which the popularity of the Queen
foundered and the prestige of the unfortunate Louis XVI
was ruined.” Further, Louis Blanc wrote, 1848:
“ His initiation took place a short distance from Frankfort in
a subterranean vault . . . (he was shown) a manuscript book ip
THE ILLUM INATI ANE| THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 75
the first page of which could be read: We Grand Masters of the
Templars; followed by an oath formula traced in blood. The
book . . . maintained that Illuminism was a conspiracy plotted
against thrones, that the first blows would fall on France; that
after the fall of the French Monarchy they would attack Rome.
Cagliostro learnt from his initiators that the secret society to which
he henceforth belonged possessed a mass of money scattered in
the banks of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, London, Genoa, and Venice.
. . . As for himself, he handled a huge sum destined for the
expenses of propaganda, received instructions from the Sect and
went to Strasbourg.”
On the seals of the lodge founded by him at Lyons
were the three letters L.P.D.—Lilia pedibus destrue,
trample the (Bourbon) lilies underfoot (see Bernard
Picard, ritual, 1809). This, then, was his diabolical
mission. When, therefore, Cagliostro arrived in Stras­
bourg, 1781, his first care was to control and set his
tools in motion. The Cardinal Prince de Rohan, his
dupe, and the Comtesse de la Motte, his accomplice, were
made known to each other; the latter being in reduced
circumstances, the Cardinal advised her to apply direct
to the Queen, at the same time confiding to her his am­
bitions and his bitterness because of the Queen’s refusal
to see him. From then Mme de la Motte, pretending to
be in touch with the Queen, under instructions from
Cagliostro, acted as intermediary in a correspondence
between the Queen, whose name was forged, and the
Cardinal, which was nominally to bring about his
restoration to the Royal favour and the realisation of
his ambitions, but was eventually to besmirch and com­
promise the unwitting Queen. Nothing was done with­
out consulting Cagliostro. In May, June, July 1784,
the forged letters multiplied, written by Retaux de
Villette and dictated by Mme de la Motte. Then at
midnight, 11 August, came the brief pretended interview
in the park at Versailles between the Queen and the
Cardinal. Nicole d’Oliva dressed as the Queen strongly
resembled her; the Cardinal believed he had seen and
spoken with Marie-Antoinette. When, therefore,
further forged letters twice asked him to find 60,000
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
76
livres for the Queen’s bounties, both sums were willingly
borrowed by the Cardinal from the Jew Cerfberr. The
money was retained by Mme de la Motte!
In December, having come into touch with the Court
jeweller, Boehmer, who was anxious to dispose of a
diamond necklace worth 1,800,000 livres, she quickly
planned to acquire it, in the same way, for herself.
More forged letters from the Queen, along with advice
from his oracle Cagliostro, reassured the Cardinal, and
on 1 February, 1785, the negotiations with Boehmer
were completed; the necklace passed into the possession
of Mme de la Motte, and the finest stones were sold in
London by her husband. Failing to receive the first
payment of 100,000 ecus which fell due on 30 July,
Boehmer realised the fraud; the indignant Queen was
informed of everything, and in August the Cardinal,
Mme de la Motte, and Cagliostro were arrested, but not
before most of the compromising letters were secretly
burnt. The Cardinal refused the King’s offer to act as
judge; they were, therefore, tried by Parliament, which
was largely Masonised. The Cardinal and Cagliostro
were acquitted, Mme de la Motte was condemned to be
branded as a thief, whipped, and shut up, but was later
secretly assisted to escape.
From London she waged her campaign of calumny
against Marie-Antoinette; in 1788 her Memoire justifi-
catif was published, formed, said de Nolhac, of rage and
lies, dragging the Queen through infamous mud. It
was almost wholly retouched by M. de Calonne in a fer­
ment of hatred against the Queen, whom he blamed for
his disgrace from Ministerial office. In 1789 appeared
the Second memoire justificatif, again attributed to but
repudiated by Mme de la Motte, and which outdid the
first in filth and venom. Then followed an avalanche of
indecent pamphlets, all based on the Memoire with the
double object of vilifying the Queen and besmirching
minds with filthy pictures, killing in advance all pity in
the hearts of the people and of her executioners—Lilia
pedibus destrue. But Cagliostro was finished, the Secret
Power, fearing disclosures, mercilessly broke him; forced
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 7 7
to leave London, hunted through Europe, he was finally
arrested in Rome by the Pontifical Police. After a long
trial, recorded in Vie de Joseph Balsamo, 1791, he was
condemned to death, commuted to imprisonment for life,
and died in 1795. In a wretched garret in London, 1791,
Mme de la Motte ended her life in terrible suffering,
deserted by all. The Secret Power having no use for
broken tools, had ceased to protect them.
In La Revue, 1 March, 1909, the editor wrote of an
indecent pamphlet, O Marquez de Bacalhoa, published
February 1908, a month before the assassination of Don
Carlos:
“ It is published in the form of the romances which appeared
about 1780 on the private life of Louis XVI and Marie-Antoinette.
. . . It smothered the King in mud and did not spare Queen
Amelia. . . . The pages consecrated to the Queen were a mere
tissue of infamous lies. . .
And the Portuguese Revolution of 1910 was the
work of Jews of VAlliance-israelite-universelle united to
Freemasonry. Again we have Proudhon writing:
“ What mysteries of iniquity would be revealed if the
Jews, like the mole, did not make a point of working in
the dark.”
French Freemasonry
Freemasonry, originating and organised in England,
where the Judaising cabalists of the Rose-Croix had
grafted it on to the old Corporations of Mason-workers,
was introduced everywhere into Europe from 1725 to
1730. And as de Poncins writes: “ In France, where
minds were in open ferment, Freemasonry found a
favourable soil and under the double influence of the
Encyclopaedists and the Illuminati of Bavaria it evolved
quickly to the point of being one of the preponderant
elements of the great revolutionary movements of 1789.”
And in a report of a meeting of the Lodges Paix et Union
and La Libre Conscience} at the Orient of Nantes,
23 April, 1883, it was said: “ It was from 1772 to 1789
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
that Masonry elaborated the great Revolution which was
to change the face of the world. . . . It was then the
Freemasons vulgarised the ideas they had absorbed in
their Lodges” (see Daste). Daste adds: “ It was in
fact on 23 December, 1772, that the formation of the
Grand Orient of France was proclaimed. On this day
was carried out the concentration of all Masonic arms for
the assault to be made on France.” And Ragon, the
Jewish Masonic authority, tells us that on that date it
was “ solemnly declared that the former Grand Lodge
of France ceased to exist, that it was replaced by a new
National Grand Lodge which would be an integral part
of a new body which would administer the Order, under
the name of Grand Orient of France” (Orthodoxie
magonnique, 1853).
And in Vente-Israelite, 1861, it was written: “ The
spirit of Masonry is the spirit of Judaism in its most
fundamental beliefs.”
“ It is, therefore,”—writes Freiherr von Stolzinger, 1930—
“ perfectly understandable that Judaism early turned towards
Freemasonry, and that, thanks to its remarkable powers of adap­
tation, it became an increasing influence within it. One is hardly
mistaken in affirming that to-day the greater number of the Lodges
are subject to Jewish influence, and that they form the spiritual
storm-troops of Judaism.”
Finally, as explained in the Freimcmrer-Zeitung,
15 December, 1866:
“ In a lecture on the religious element of Freemasonry . . .
F. Charles de Gagern made the following statement: *I am firmly
convinced that the time will, and must, arrive when atheism will
be the general opinion of all humanity, and when the latter will
consider deism as a past phase, just as deist-Freemasons are
above religious divisions. We must not only place ourselves above
different religions, but above all belief in any God whatsoever.’ ”
78
B l u e M a s o n r y
Below we give a short account of the most important
grades in Grand Orient Masonry, that is: Blue Masonry,
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 79
Rose-Croix, and Kadosch degrees as practised in France.
In these will be found the same pantheistic and nature
ideas as expressed in their symbolism.
According to Bazot, Secretary-General of the Grand
Orient, 1812:
“ Masonry is merely the primitive cult of man discovered
after his first wants are satisfied. The Brahmans and Egyptian
priests transmitted its mysteries to Solomon. Jerusalem, victim
of revolutions, having been destroyed, the Jewish people being
dispersed, this Masonry spread with them all over the earth.”
And man’s place in this cult is thus expressed in an
official Dutch Masonic document: “ A sacred unity reigns
and governs in the vast firmament. There is only one
mission, one moral, one God . . . we, men, form a whole
with the Great Being. All ends in this revelation: We
are God! ” Here we find the pantheistic idea of Judaism,
its race, its God Yahveh. As Claudio Jannet and Louis
d’Estampes wrote in La Franc-Magonnerie et la Revolu­
tion, 1884:
“ This deification of humanity is not at first openly stated by
Freemasonry, but is insinuated in all its rites and expressed in all
its symbols. A vast temple is to be builk, apprentices, fellow-
craftsmen, and masters work at it; Hiram or Adonhiram, one of
these masters, is killed by three craftsmen in order to obtain the
word of Master; the body of this Master, hidden in the earth, has
to be found and replaced and his death avenged; the building
of the temple is resumed and is to be finished; such is the funda­
mental and universal allegory, basis and essence of Freemasonry
and all secret societies. Thus do all their rites and manuals, their
most authorised orators and interpreters teach it. This allegory
is indicated in the grades of Apprentice and Fellow-craft, is
developed at length in that of Master, is completed and explained
in the grades of Rose-Croix and Kadosch, and in the last grades of
the Misraim rite it reaches its final development.”
The three assassins to be pursued and exterminated are:
superstitions, prejudices, and tyranny; that is, religion,
moral control, monarchy and all authority, family,
property, and nationality.
8 o THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
As we have already shown, French Masonry was
captured, just before the French Revolution of 1789, by
Weishaupt, and secretly illuminised by certain of his
high adepts. He thus gained direction of all the lodges,
and to-day, even, the taint of his pernicious system still
remains amongst them, and among all those who are in
any way linked to them. The fundamental thought of
this system is thus expressed by Weishaupt himself:
“ Equality and liberty are the essential rights which man in
his original and primitive perfection received from nature. The
first attack upon this equality was made by property; the first
attack upon liberty was made by political societies or Govern­
ments; the sole supports of property and Governments are the
religious and civil laws. Therefore, to establish man in his primi­
tive rights of equality and liberty, we must begin by destroying all
religion, all civil society, and finish by abolishing property.”
To which Claudio Jannet adds: “ These few lines
indicate the root idea of Masonry and all secret societies;
the germ is found in the symbolic grades, it is scienti­
fically developed in the high grades, and brutally realised
in the communism of the International and the anarchism
of Bakunin and Socialist democracy.” And we would
add: in the Soviet system in the Russia of to-day, and
again attempted in Spain, South America, and elsewhere.
Briefly, the three grades represent generation, putre­
faction, and regeneration. The Temple, that of nature,
is maintained, as Clavel says, by two Pillars, “ Boaz and
Jakin, the generative principles; the one, light, life, and
good, the other darkness, death, and evil; they maintain
the equilibrium of the world.” It is the dualism of the
Gnostics, Manichaeans, the Jewish Magical Cabala, and
all ancient mysteries. In each grade an oath of secrecy,
etc., is taken. In the first grade, neither clothed nor yet
unclothed, the candidate enters as the man of nature who
is to receive the light; he is the rough stone upon which
he has to work, under the direction of his chiefs, to free
himself from prejudices, vices, and superstitions. The
Apprentice thus freed passes from the Pillar Jakin to
the Pillar Boaz, from natural science to wisdom, as he
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 8 l
enters the second grade, Fellow-craft, in which he is to
learn to know the letter G, the God of Masonry. Speak­
ing of the consecration of the triangle in the lodges,
Ragon writes: “ In the centre is the Hebrew letter Yod,
life-giving spirit, or fire, generative principle, represented
by the letter G, initial of the word God in northern
languages, and whose philosophic signification is genera­
tion.” Further, according to Ragon, the grade of Master
allegorically represents the death of the Light-God, solar,
philosophic, or physical putrefaction, for the life is with­
drawn, as expressed in the grade word Macbenac—the
flesh leaves the bones, and out of which arises the re­
generated form. Finally, as Ragon explains:
“ The entire triangle has always signified God or nature, and
the allegories of the truths, foundation of the early mysteries, the
successive and eternal acts of nature: ( i) that all is formed by
generation; (2) that destruction follows generation in all its
works; (3) and that generation re-establishes under other forms
the actions of destruction.”
In revolutionary Masonry and secret societies this
pantheistic and cabalistic creed is applied to all aspects of
life; old ideas and opinions are destroyed, others, new and
subversive, are insinuated and more or less unconsciously
absorbed and established; Christian beliefs are perverted
and nullified; man, illuminised, apparently becomes his
own redeemer, and God, though in truth enslaved to the
invisible hierarchy—according to some the kundalini is
man’s redeemer! Kings are dethroned and replaced by
some form of disintegrating republic or socialist de­
mocracy. It is death to all old traditions and civilisa­
tions, and out of inevitable chaos and putrefaction Is to
arise the “ New Heaven and New Earth,” the Universal
Brotherhood of all these subversive and Judaic sects.
R o s e -C r o ix
As Gaston Martin tells us: “ All Freemasons of
the three obediences in friendly relations, belong to what
in politics is called *the Left.’ The shades in doctrine
6
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
8 2
are not such as to prevent accord reigning amongst all
the members.” These three obediences are: the Grand
Orient, the Grand Lodge, and the Droit Humain.
“ As the three grades of ordinary Masonry [said Louis
Blanc] include a great number of men opposed by position and
principles to every project of social subversion, the innovators
multiplied the degrees of the mystic ladder to be climbed; they
created secret lodges reserved for ardent souls; they instituted the
high grades of elus, chevalier du soleil, Rose-Croix, stride obser­
vance, of Kadosch or regenerated man, mysterious sanctuaries
whose doors only open to the adept after a long series of tests,
calculated to establish the progress of his revolutionary education,
to prove the firmness of his faith, to try the temper of his heart.
There was, in the midst of a crowd of practices, sometimes puerile,
sometimes sinister, nothing which related to the ideas of freedom
or equality” (History of French Revolution).
In the Rose-Croix grade, when holding Chapter the
lodge should be hung with red, and in the East a trian­
gular altar, one face turned to the West. On this
altar should be a great transparent picture repre­
senting a Calvary; two crosses at the side (good and
evil, light and darkness, of the Manichaeans), and on
that in the centre is a rose and interlaced drapery,
above being the inscription I.N.R.I. Below, in front of
the picture, there are broken pillars, on the ruins of which
are the sleeping watchmen; in the midst of them is a
kind of tomb whose upper stone has been moved and out
of which comes a shroud. When there is a reception
the hangings, transparency, and altar should be covered
with black sown with tears. There should be three great
triangular pillars above which are the three virtues,
Faith, Hope, and Charity, or as Ragon suggests: active,
passive, and manifestation of the Creative Principle.
At the opening of the Lodge the “ Tres-sage” is
seated on the third of the seven steps of the altar, his
head supported by his hand. After the first orders, he
says: “ My brother, you see me overwhelmed with sad­
ness; all has changed; the veil of the temple is rent, the
pillars of masonry are broken, the cubic stone sweats
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 83
blood and water, the Word is lost, ct consummatum est.”
The first and second chevaliers are requested, with the
help of other worthy chevaliers, to look on the pillars
and find the lost Word. Each brother gives the Word,
whispered in the ear—the lost Word is found, and, pay­
ing homage to the Supreme Architect, all rise and,
turning to the East, make sign and bow with one knee
on the ground. In the East is the Flaming Star, the
Delta and the letter G or J, signs of fire. The Chapter
is opened.
The prepared candidate is led into the lodge, now
hung with black, and when questioned, replies that he
was born of noble parents of the Tribe of Judah, his
country is Judea, and he professes the art of Masonry.
He is then told that the Word is lost, and they hope to
find it through his courage; was he willing to use it for
that purpose? Consenting, he takes the oath, and finally,
in the lodge, now hung with red, he replies to questions
again, that he comes from Judea, passing through
Nazareth, led by Raphael, and he is of the Tribe of
Judah. Uniting the initials of these four names, he
makes I.N.R.I.—he has found the lost Word. The candi­
date then kneels at the foot of the altar, and the “ Tres-
sage ” places his naked sword on the head and admits,
receives, and constitutes him nowand for ever, Chevalier
prince de Vaigle et du pelican, perfect free Mason of
Heredon, under the sovereign title of Rose-Croix. He
is then raised, given the sash, word, sign, and grip; the
Word is I.N.R.I. (Recueil pricieux, Avignon, 1810;
Teissier, Manuel, 1854). Such is the grade of Rose-
Croix of the Scottish Rite. The French rite only differs
in the drawing up of formulas and accessories. It is on
Good Friday that the Rose-Croix hold their Chapters
and have their receptions (Deschamps, 1881).
A few explanations of the symbolism as given by
the Jewish writer, Ragon, “ sacred ” Grand Orient
authority, in his Cours philosophique, etc., 1841, are
enlightening:
“ Three major events should fix the attention of the Rose-
Croix: the creation of the world (generation), the deluge of Noah
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
84
(destruction), and the redemption of mankind (regeneration).
The triple consideration should be, in fact, ever present in the
mind of all Freemasons, since the royal art has, like the ancient
mysteries, no other aim than the knowledge of nature, where all
are born, die, and regenerate themselves. . . . This regeneration
of man was and will always be the work of the philosophy prac­
tised in the mysteries . . . the eagle is liberty, the Rose-Croix,
humanity, symbolised by the pelican. . . . The rose was also the
emblem of the woman, and as the cross or triple phallus symbolised
virility or the sun in all its force, the combination of these two
emblems offers one more meaning expressing, as the Indian
lingam, the union of the two sexes, symbol of universal generation.
. . . Fire (or vital energy) is concealed everywhere, it embraces
all nature, it produces, it renews, it divides, it consumes, it main­
tains the whole body . . . heat and light are but its modifications,
fecundity, movement, and life the effects (of the letters I.N.R.I.,
he says). Their combination formed a mysterious meaning long
before Christianity and the sages of antiquity had attached to it
one of the greatest secrets of nature; that of universal regenera­
tion.”
Thus they express it: Igne Natura Renovatur Integra—
entire nature is renewed by fire.
Finally, there is the supper:
“ All ancient mystagogies were terminated by all breaking
bread and tasting the wine from a common cup, to recall among
themselves the community of goods and that initiates have nothing
of their own. The bread and wine are consecrated. This mystic
nourishment, which should feed body and soul, was an emblem of
immortality ”
active and passive forces!
Thus we see that this Rose-Croix grade is. a com­
plete perversion of Christian symbolism and sacred
beliefs, it is the cult of nature by whose forces, genera­
tion, destruction, and regeneration the adept, under the
mask of deification or development of latent powers, is
led to the slavery of illuminism, whereby he becomes a
willing instrument in the hands of some powerful and
unscrupulous but unknown leaders, who profess as their
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 85
goal the emancipation of humanity, through whom they
hope to rule the world.
K a d o s c h
In the Tuileur de I’ecossisme, 1821, it is said:
“ 30th degree, grand inquisitor, grand elu, chevalier Kadosch,
also called White and Black Eagle. Although the Scottish, they
say, never confer this grade except by communication, and that it
occupies, in the ancient rite, only the thirtieth degree, it must be
considered as the final, the real aim of the Scottish Rite, just as it
is the nec plus ultra of the Templar Masonry. In it they com­
memorate the abolition of the Order of the Templars by Philippe
le Bel and Pope Clement V, and the punishment of the first Grand
Master Jacques Molay, who perished in the flames, 11 March,
As Deschamps writes, 1881:
“ In vain they repeat with complaisance that the Kadosch of
France is purely philosophic. . . . War to the throne and the
altar is the grand cry of the Order. The fierce Nekam Adonai
(Vengeance Lord!) has produced the Illuminati and the Car­
bonari. In the hands of fanatical men, aided by favourable cir­
cumstances, it constantly gives similar results.”
According to the manuals of Willaume and Teissier,
authorised by the Grand Orient, the cry, when making
the sign of the grade, is Nekam Adonai, and the three
passwords for entry into the Supreme Council all begin
with Nekam—Vengeance!
Ragon further writes:
“ The more or less development, extension, or application
given to vengeance introduces into the Kadosch a multitude of
variants, or rather, makes it like so many different grades (some
he admits are horrible). One finds in very old manuscripts of
English Masonry that the Kadosch is called Killer.”
It apparently belongs to all rites, among others: 30th
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
degree Scottish Rite, 66th Egyptian or Misraim Rite,
25th Heredon Rite or Perfection Rite or Order of the
Temple, believed to be its source, 10th degree Rite of
Saint-Martin, also in the Lyons Lodge, which served
later as the cradle of French Illuminism under the name
of chevaliers hienfaisants de la sainte cite, 1743
(Deschamps). Again, in his Cours d’initiations, 1842,
Ragon writes of this grade:
“ It bears with reason the title nec plus ultra; the three degrees
above are merely administrative. . . . The Kadosch is not only
the Mason of the Lodges, the Mason of the Chapters, but admitted
to the third sanctuary, it is to him that these two precepts of
ancient initiation will be addressed. Give'yourself to the science
of nature, study politics for the good of your fellow-creatures.
Penetrate the secrets of religion and of high sciences, and com­
municate your ideas with prudence . . . the initiate, therefore,
studied politics and religion.”
He then tells us that there are four apartments in the
grade, and the initiation is accomplished in the fourth.
He says: “ The Hebrew word Kadosch signifies saint,
consecrated, purified. It must not be thought by that
that the Knights of the White and Black Eagle have any
pretensions to sanctity, they wish to express by this word
that they alone are the elect, men par excellence, purified
of all the dregs of Prejudices.”
In the fourth room, which is hung with red, sits the
Supreme Council.
“ Reaching this divine sanctuary the candidate learns the
pledges that he contracts. There is a cross in this sanctuary, a
three-headed serpent wearing, the first a crown, the second a tiara,
and the third a sword; they give him a dagger with a black and
white blade. The cross, says Ragon, is the phallic Tau. The
serpent represents the evil principle; its three heads are the emblem
of the abuses or evil which has entered into the three high classes
of society. The head of the serpent which wears a crown indicates
the sovereigns, that which wears a tiara or key indicates the Popes,
that which carries a sword the Army. . .
The dagger, Mithraic or the sickle of Saturn,
8 6
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 8 7
“ morally recalls to the grand elect that he must continually
work to fight against and destroy prejudices, ignorance,
and superstition, or that which is upon the three heads
of the serpent.”
Finally, the new grand elect Kadosch is told:
“. . . Thou knowest thyself; never forget that there exists
no degree of good fortune to which the man who enters again into
his primitive rights could not aspire to. Forget not that thou hast
within thyself the precious thread (kundalini) by aid of which
thou art able to come out of the labyrinth of material things. . . .
Reintegrated (by illuminism) to-day into thy natural (or primi­
tive) rights, behold thyself for ever freed from the yoke of pre­
judices; apply thyself without ceasing to deliver thy fellow-
creatures from it ” (Ragon; Willaume; and Teissier).
In the Morning Post, 14 July, 1920, Cause of the
World Unrest, speaking of this revolutionary Masonry,
it said: “ When at length the candidate is admitted into
the 30th grade, and after going through terrifying
ordeals to test his obedience and secrecy, becomes a
Knight Kadosch, he learns that it is no longer Adoniram
or Hiram whose death cries for vengeance.” And their
catechism says:
“ Do you fully understand that this degree is not, like much
of so-called Masonry, a sham that means nothing and amounts to
nothing . . . that what you are now engaged in is real, will
require the performance of duty, will exact sacrifice, will expose
you to danger, and that this Order means to deal with the affairs
of nations, and be once more a Power in the world.”
W o m e n i n M a s o n r y
And the women too were drawn into the Masonic
net. Minos, one of Weishaupt’s chiefs, wrote: “ Women
exercise too great an influence over men for us to hope
to reform the world if they themselves are not reformed
. . . but they will need something which directs and
stimulates them: an order, meetings for reception, secrets
etc. . . .” According to Albert Lantoine, the M'asonic
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
88
writer of the Grand Lodge of France, the Anderson
Constitution, 1723, says: “ Slaves, women, immoral and
dishonoured persons cannot be admitted, but only men
of good reputation.” However, Clavel informs us that
Freemasonry for women was first instituted, 1730, in
France, but until after 1760 the forms varied in name
and ritual, and it was only recognised and sanctioned
by the Grand Orient in 1774, on condition that meetings
were held by officers of regular lodges. Later they were
attached to a masculine lodge, receiving its name, that is
to say, ‘Loge d’adoption.’ In 1743 the sisters of the
Order of the Felicitaires, in imagination, sailed under the
pilotage of the brothers to the Isle of Felicity, and in
1747 was instituted the Order of the Fendeurs, or wood­
cutters, copied from the coterie of the Charbonniers.
The lodge was the Chantier or woodyard, the members
were cousins and cousines. Still another was the Order
of the Chevaliers and Nymphes de la Rose. These were
frequented by men and women of the Court, and clothed
as peasants, they joined in all the rowdyism of popular
gaiety.
Later these were succeeded by others more closely
akin to ordinary Masonry, and about 1760, and later, the
most famous were the Lodges, des Neuf sceurs, presided
over by Mme Helvetius, the Contrat social, with the
Princess de Lamballe as President, and the Duchesse de
Chartres as Grand Mistress (or Master!), and La
Candeur. In The Power and Secret of the Jesuits,
1930, Fulop-Miller writes:
“ The leaders of the Enlightenment (Encyclopedists), Mon­
tesquieu, d’Alembert, Diderot, Lamettrie, Helvetius, La Chalotais,
and shortly before his death, Voltaire, were members of the
Parisian Lodge ‘ At the Nine Sisters.’ . . . The success of the
great Encyclopedists was to a considerable extent due to the
initiative and support of the Parisian Grand Lodge.”
And yet they could not save the Princess de Lamballe
from her horrible death at the hands of the revolu-
tionaries! The fetes and balls of these women’s lodges
THE ILLUM INATI AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 8 9
were frequented by all that was most brilliant in litera­
ture, art, and nobility; the whole Court was infatuated
by Freemasonry. But as Ragon says, although frivolous
in appearance, these societies were powerful agents for
sowing in the minds of members the germs of the
Masonic principles of equality.
The Masonry of adoption, says Teissier, consists of
five principal grades, of which three are obligatory: Ap­
prentice, Fellow-craft, Master; the others were Perfect
Master and Souveraine illustre ecossaise. This last
grade was political, and a Florence journal, Vera buona
nouvella, gives the speech of the Grand Master before
the reception. After the oath of secrecy he says, . . An
arduous but sublime task is henceforth imposed upon
you. The first of your obligations will be to incense the
people against kings and priests, in cafe, theatre, and’
evening entertainment work with this sacrosanct inten­
tion ” (Deschamp). This infatuation persisted during
the Empire, Restoration, and following regimes.
M is r a i m R it e
At the beginning of the nineteenth century the
Masonry of Cagliostro reappeared, combined with the
so-called French and Scottish grades under the name of
Misraim or Egyptian Rite. It had 90 degrees. As
Clavel writes:
“ This system to which great antiquity is attributed, is divided
into four classes, called: symbolic, philosophic, mystic, and cabalis­
tic. The degrees of instruction were borrowed from Scottish Rite,
Martinism, Hermetic Masonry, and various reforms formerly in
force in Germany and France and whose text-books are now
found only in the archives of connoisseurs. At first postulants
could only attain to the 87th degree. The other three, which com­
plete the system, were reserved for the Unknown Superiors, and
even the names of these degrees were hidden from the brothers
in the lower grades. Thus organised the Misraim Rite spread, in
the second French invasion of the first Empire, into the Kingdom
of Italy and Naples. . . . It was brought back to France in 1814
and propagated later in Belgium, Ireland, and Switzerland.”
According to Ragon, in his Cours Philosophique des
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
9 0
Initiations, 1841, their solemn feasts were held at the
Equinoxes; during the vernal under the name of awaken­
ing of nature; during the autumnal under the name of
repose of nature. Further he writes:
“ The 87th degree has three apartments. The first is hung
in black and represents chaos; it is lighted by a single light. The
second is lighted by three lights and hung with green, symbolising
hope. The third is lighted by 72 candles and on the entrance
door is a transparency of a Jehovah on a throne—sign of eternal
creation and the vital fire of nature.”
Now, according to Eliphas Levi—
“ The name Jehovah resolves into 72 names, called Shemaham-
phoras. The art of employing these 72 names and discovering
therein the key of universal science is called by the cabalists
the Keys of Solomon . . . by the aid of these signs and their
infinite combinations it is possible to arrive at the natural and
mathematical revelation of all secrets of nature.”
Here again, as in all such grades, it is the eternal Pan
with his seven-voiced flute!
CHAPTER V
CARBONARI, MAZZINI, L’ALLIANCE-
ISRAELITE-UNIVERSELLE AND KARL MARX
I n a prefatory letter to George Pitt-Rivers’s World
Significance of the Russian Revolution, 1920, the Jew,
Dr. Oscar Levy, wrote:
“ There is no race in the world more enigmatic, more fatal,
and, therefore, more interesting than the Jews. Every writer
who, like yourself, is oppressed by the aspect of the present and
embarrassed by his anxieties for the future must try to elucidate
the Jewish question and its bearing upon our age. For the
question of the Jews and their influence on the world, post and
present, cuts to the root of all things.”
One of the most powerful instruments of Jewish
universality of the last century was the Carbonaro and
its affiliations, of which it is said both Mme Blavatsky,
1856, and later Dr. Steiner, were members. Two of the
most formidable leaders of the Haute-Vente, known,
except to the few, only by their pseudonyms, were Nubius
and his Jew colleague, Petit-Tigre or Piccolo-Tigre; and
their sinister methods of enticing the unwary into their
universal net have been exposed by the latter in the
following letter of instructions sent by him to the superior
agents of the Piedmontese Vente, 18 January, 1822:
“ It is essential to isolate the man from his family and cause
him to lose his morals. . . . He loves the long talks of the cafe,
the idleness of the shows. Entice him, draw him away, give him
any kind of importance, teach him discreetly to tire of his daily
work, and in this way . . . after having shown him how tiresome
all duties are, inculcate in him the desire for another existence.
Man is born a rebel. Stir up his desire for rebellion as far as
the fire, but let not the conflagration burst out! It is a preparation
for the great work which you must begin. When you have
91
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
92
insinuated in several minds the distaste of family and religion,
let drop certain words which will incite the desire to become
affiliated to the nearest lodge. This vanity of the bourgeois to
identify himself with Freemasonry has something so banal and
so universal that I am ever in admiration before human
stupidity. . . .”
Both des Mousseaux and Cretineau-Joly tell how
Nubius, this formidable chief of occultism, gained the
confidence of the Prince de Metternich, Prime Minister
of Austria, and thus drew from him most political secrets
of Europe. Gaetano, the pseudonym of a Lombard noble
named V------, member of the Haute-Vente, was placed
near Metternich, at Vienna, there to spy, observe, and
report to Nubius. In one such report, 23 January, 1844,
he confessed to fears and doubts:
" . . . We aspire to corrupt in order to attain to govern. . . .
We have corrupted too much. . . . I begin to fear that we will
not be able to stem the torrent we have let loose. There are
insatiable passions of which I did not guess, unknown appetites,
savage hatreds which ferment around and under us. . . . It has
been very easy to pervert; will it also always be easy to muzzle
the perverts? . . . I am disturbed, for I am getting old, I have
lost my illusions, I do not wish, poor and denuded of everything,
to assist as a theatrical supernumerary in the triumph which I
have created and which would repudiate me by confiscating my
fortune and taking off my head. We have gone too much to the
extreme in many things. We have taken from the people all the
gods of heaven and earth which had their homage. We have
tom from them their religious faith, their faith in monarchy,
their honesty and their family virtues, and we hear in the distance
their sinister roarings. We tremble, for the monster may devour
us. . . . The world is launched on the declivity of democracy,
and for some time for me democracy has meant demagogy. Our
twenty years of intrigues run the risk of being wiped out by
babblers who would flatter the people, pull the legs off the nobility,
after having machine-gunned the clergy. . . . I have as yet no
remorse, but I am agitated with fears, and in your place, as I
perceive the spirit in Europe, I should not wish to take upon my
head a responsibility which might lead Joseph Mazzini to the
Capitol. Mazzini at the Capitol! Nubius on the Tarpeian rock
or in oblivion! . . . Does this dream smile upon you, O Nubius! ”
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 93
In 1849 Metternich, at last realising the truth,
exclaimed:
“ In Germany the Jews occupy the principal roles and
are first-rate revolutionaries. They are writers, philosophers,
poets, orators, publicists, and bankers, and on their heads and in
their hearts all the weight of ancient ignominy! They will one
day be terrible for Germany . . . probably followed by a morrow
terrible for them ” (Rougeyron, 1861).
And this “ consummate scoundrel ” Nubius, according to
des Mousseaux, “ was poisoned by one of his own
followers after having done marvels in favour of anti-
Christian revolution.” Again des Mousseaux writes:
“ But whence comes this sinister marvel - (the progressive
Judaic power) ? It comes from the failing of the Christian faith
. . . from the progress of secret societies, filled with apostate
Christians who desire what the Jew desires; that is to say,
Judaic civilisation as given to us by our teacher and master, the
philosophic Jew, the Jew of the ‘ Alliance universelle.' ”
Carbonarism was a forcing-ground for the propaga­
tion and building-up of the Universal Republic, and
Domenico Anghera, writing in 1864, tells us that about
1820-21 the work of the Carbonari was directed by the
Masonic lodges and conducted by their adepts. But all
Masons were not carbonari, only those definitely Repub­
lican. These secret societies have been agents in all in­
surrections and revolutions in Italy, Spain, and France.
In Italy they were known as Carbonarism, in France as
Charbonnerie, and in Spain as Communeros, and they
were all bound together by an occult direction, forming
the irresistible weight of public opinion influencing
elections. The Haute-Vente was composed of some
corrupt grand seigneurs and of Jews, and was the con­
tinuation of the Inner Order constituted before the revo­
lution of 1789. In the last grade, which few attained to,
“ one learns that the aim of the Carbonari is entirely the same
as that of the Illuminati. . . . The initiate swears the ruin of all
religion and of all positive government, whether it is despotic or
THE TRAIL OP THE SERPENT
94
democratic. All means for the execution of their plans are
allowed, murder, poison, perjury, all are at their disposal.”
So we are told by Jean Witt in his Les Societes
Secretes de France et d’ltalie, 1830.
In their organisation all precaution was taken to
prevent police penetration of the whole. Therefore
Carbonarism consisted of the sovereign authority, the
Haute-Vente, of Central Ventes, and under them again
individual Ventes, both of unlimited number, the latter
communicating with the Supreme Vente (Paris) only
through the deputies of the Central Ventes, each member
being again forbidden, on pain of death, to try to enter
any other Vente but his own. To penetrate the army
they had the legion, cohorts, centuries, and manipules.
Members were called “ bons cousins,” and had each a
pseudonym and a special number.
Their work has been thus described by the Jew
carbonaro, Piccolo-Tigre, to his colleague Nubius,
5 January, 1846:
“ . . . Everywhere I found minds much inclined to exalta­
tion. All feel that the old world is cracking, and that kings are
finished. . . . The harvest made should fructify. . . . The fall
of thrones makes it no longer doubtful to me, who have come
from studying the work of our societies in France, Switzerland,
and Germany, and even Prussia. The assault which, a few years
from now, or perhaps a few months, will be delivered upon the
princes of the earth, will bury them under the ruins of their
powerless armies and their decrepit monarchies. Everywhere
there is enthusiasm among our people and apathy and indif­
ference among the enemy (as we see to-day!). It is a certain
and infallible sign of success. . . . In order to kill surely the old
world we have believed it necessary to stifle the Catholic and
Christian germ. . . . This brave Mazzini, whom I have met
at various times, has always his humanitarian dream in his brain
and in his mouth. But, apart from his small failings and his
methods of assassinations, he has good in him. With his
mysticism he strikes the attention of the masses who understand
nothing of his grand airs of prophet or his discourses of a
cosmopolitan Illuminatus. . .
Mazzini, however, by his activity and audacity which
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 95
recoiled from no means, succeeded in making himself a
kind of supreme director over all that was most young
and most democratic in the lodges, ventes, and clandestine
clubs; in 1832 he founded at Marseilles the journal and
society of Jeune-Itdie, and from end to end Italy was
soon as on a volcano. Among their articles of adherence
were: “ Art. 2.—Having recognised the horrible evils of
absolute power, and those still greater of constitutional
monarchies, we must work to found a republic one and
indivisible. Art. 30.—Those who will not obey the
order of the secret societies, or who reveal the mysteries,
will be mercilessly stabbed. The same punishment for
traitors. Art. 31.—The Secret Tribunal will pronounce
the sentence, and will appoint one or two affiliates for
its immediate execution. Art. 32.—Whoever shall refuse
to execute the order will be reputed a perjurer, and as
such killed at once. . . The Jeune-AUemagne, largely
dominated by Jews, was working for the 1848 revolution;
and, as Eckert wrote: “ Mazzini was head of Jeune-
Europe and of the warrior power of Masonry.” The
Universal Republic prepared by Mazzini and Jeune-
Europe appeared as if it would triumph everywhere—
but it was premature!
Much later, in 1865, he founded the Alliance-republi-
caine-universelle in America, and in January 1867 issued
an appeal, hoping thereby to spread his idea in that
vast country. Its organisation was, in reality a League
of Nations: t.
“ The association should be composed of distinct sections. . . .
These sections will be so many representatives of future republics,
whilst their delegates, united in a Central Council, will represent
the solidarity of republics, realisation of which is the supreme
aim proposed for the work of the Alliance. The Central Council
should be composed of a president, secretary of finance, secretary
of records, and as many secretaries as there shall be nationalities
represented in the Council. Each secretary, representing thus a
republic, present or future, will be the accredited member of his
own section and intermediary for it. . . . The proceedings of the
Central Council will be secret. . . . General orders and regula­
tions will emanate from the Central Council. Special agents
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
96
nominated by the Central Council for all affairs necessary for
the organisation or extension of the Alliance-republicaine-
universelle . . ” (Deschamps, 1881).
Further, we find the Jew Freemason Cremieux,
founder and president of the Alliance-israelite-univer-
selle, proclaiming in the name of the Provisional Govern­
ment, 1848: “ The Republic will do what Masonry does,
it will become the splendid pledge of the union of peoples
over all points of the globe on all sides of our triangle.
. . . Citizens and brothers of Freemasonry! Long live
the Republic!”
Finally Mazzini, dreamer of this Universal Re­
public, in his instructions to his followers, 1 November,
1846, said:
“ Associate, associate, associate! Everything is in that word.
Secret Societies give a:n irresistible force to the party that can
invoke them. Do not be afraid to see them divide; the more
they divide the better it will be; all move towards the same end by
different roads. . .. The secret is necessary to give security to the
members, but a certain transparency is needed to inspire fear in
those who stand still. When a great number of associates receive
orders to spread an idea and form public opinion, and can for a
moment work together they will find the old edifice penetrated in
all parts and falling as by a miracle at the least breath of Progress.
They will be astonished to see kings, nobles, the rich and the
priests, who form the carcass of the old social edifice, fly before
the sole power of opinion. Courage, therefore, and per­
severance ! ”
To know, to dare, to will, to keep silence! Such is the
system common to all occult, subversive, and secret socie­
ties, always apparently controlled by some Unknown
Superiors working for the Universal Domination.
L’A lliance-israelite-universelle
In 1869, in his book Le Juif, the Chevalier Gougenot
des Mousseaux wrote:
“ The anti-religious but, above all, anti-Christian efforts
which distinguish the present epoch have a character of concen-
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-lSRAELITE 97
tration and universality which marks the stamp of the Jew, the
supreme patron of the unification of peoples, because he is the
cosmopolitan people par excellence', because the Jew prepares
by the licence of the libre-pensee, the era called by him
' Messianic ’—the day of his universal triumph. He attributes
its near realisation to the principles spread by the philosophers
of the eighteenth century; the men at once unbelievers and
cabalists, whose work prepared the Judaising of the world. The
character of universality will be noted in L’Alliance-israelite-
universelle, in the Universal Association of Freemasonry, and in
the more recent auxiliaries, L’Alliance-universelle-religieuse,
open to those who are still frightened off by the name of Israelite
and finally in the Ligue-universelle de Venseig^ement. . !*
L’Alliance-Israelite-universeUe^ that vast revolution­
ary association of defence, attack, and propaganda, with
its astonishing diversity of membership, was founded
by the Jew Adolphe Cremieux, who, according to the
Archives Israelites, was “ elected in 1869, Sovereign
Grand Master of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, the
highest dignity of the Masonic Order in France.” The
Alliance arose out of the slackening of the Jewish reli­
gion and the spread of the revolutionary reformed libre-
pensee movement, and its dogmas were those of Free­
masonry and Occultism. In 1861, the same Jewish
journal wrote:
" L ’AUumce-israSlite-universelle . . . addresses itself to all
religions. . . . It desires to penetrate into all religions as it has
penetrated into all countries. How many nations have disap­
peared? How many religions will in turn vanish? Israel will
not cease to exist . . . the religion of Israel will not perish; it is
the unity of God.”
From Edouard Drumont’s La France Juive, 1886,
we draw the following information about this same Alli­
ance. As we know, Cremieux, its founder, was an im­
portant leader of French democracy, and he more than
any other gave a strictly Jewish character to the French
revolutionary movement; “ He prepared and loudly pro­
claimed, during the last years of his life, the Messianic
reign, the time so long expected when all nations will be
7
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
98
subject to Israel and all men will work for the representa­
tives of the race blessed by Jehovah.” The Alliance was
founded in i860, and its first General Assembly took
place, 30 May, 1861. “ In reality it had already func­
tioned secretly for many years, but certain Jews, sure
of victory, felt the need of an official power, an effective
representative of their nation which could speak to
Europe in its name.”
The constitution of the Alliance is apparently very
simple. Any Jew, by paying a yearly subscription of
six francs, could belong to it. It is governed by a
Central Committee in Paris, composed at first of forty
members and later of sixty, elected for nine years by
the vote of all members of the Alliance. From among
themselves the Central Committee elected every year a
bureau consisting of a President, two Vice-Presidents, a
Treasurer, and a Secretary-General. A committee could
be constituted wherever the society had ten adherents,
and a Regional Committee could be constituted in any
country where there were several local committees. In
local and regional matters these committees acted on
their own responsibility, but in matters concerning the
Association they acted on communications received from
the Central Committee. Subscriptions were collected
and remitted to the Central body. In 1886 the members
were about 28,000, and the budget of the Association
was about a million francs, but their real resources were
almost unlimited.
Among the societies attached to it were: The Anglo-
Jewish Association, the Union of American Hebrew Con­
gregations, the B’nai B’rith of America, etc. Control­
ling by money most of the big European Press and acting
through them upon the peoples, the Israelites had never­
theless numerous journals addressed solely to the Jews,
such as Archives Israelites, VUniverse israelite of Paris,
the Jewish Chronicle, the Jewish World of London, the
Jewish Messenger of New York, etc. As Cremieux said:
“ U Alliance is not a French, German, or English Alli­
ance; it is Jewish, it is universal. That is why it pro­
gresses, why it succeeds.” The Alliance was treated on
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 99
an equality by the Powers; it sent notes, protests, and
even ultimata which were received and considered by the
Sovereigns, as for example, the question of Roumania in
1867-68, and the oppression of its people by the Jew
usurers. Cremieux successfully intervened in favour
of the Jews.
The dogmas of VAUiance-israelite-universelle are
those of reformed Judaism, which, according to the
rationalist Kluber, “ were prepared by Moise Mendels­
sohn—friend of Mirabeau— . . . [and] would in all
probability lead to a pure Deism or natural religion
whose followers need not belong to the Judaic race.”
It hopes to Judaise the world and open the way for Judaic
expansion and development, penetrating all religions and
all nations. According to Leon de Poncins, 1928, the
Jewish Masonic Order B’nai B’rith was founded in
New York in 1843:
“ It divides the world into eleven districts, of which seven
are in the United States. The number of Lodges is about 500,
with nearly 100,000 adherents. . . . According to well-informed
sources, there is in the B’nai B'rith a super-position of secret
societies ending in a single governing power. Above the B’nai B’rith
are the B’nai Moshe, then the B’nai Zion, and finally the hidden
centre of supreme command.”
He makes the last statement without proof.
In this same book, The Secret Powers behind Revo­
lution, de Poncins tells us that the League of Nations
w^s largely due to the world-wide influence of VAUiance-
israelite-universelle, and was the realisation of a long-
pursued and persistent Jewish idea and ambition. As
for example: In March 1864, the Archives Israelites pub­
lished a letter written by a member of the Alliance, Levy
Bing, in which he said:
“ If, in a word, it is no longer permitted to give judgment
oneself, but rather remit it to judges generally accepted and dis­
interested in the litigation, is it not natural, necessary, and, above
all, important soon to see another tribunal, dealing with great
100 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
public disputes, with complaints between nations, judging as a
final appeal, and whose word would be law? And this word, it
is the word of God pronounced by his eldest sons, the Hebrews,
and before which all younger sons [nations] will bow with
respect, that is to say, the Universality of men, our brothers, our
friends, our disciples.”
H oly V e h m
From time to time secret societies have played a
great role in the life of the Germanic people. There was
the “ Holy Vehm,” a secret society unique in the world
whose name had for centuries throughout the German
Empire made the powerful and simple alike tremble with
fear. It openly admitted itself to be revolutionary, a
secret Tribunal issuing and executing decrees, and during
the Middle Ages acting in the name of the Emperor
even when opposed to him. In the fourteenth and fif­
teenth centuries its number was estimated at 100,000.
It differed essentially from the Masonic type of secret
society, although its members qualified themselves as
*
*seers ” and “ illumines,” that is, Wissend, while de­
scribing outsiders of all ranks by saying they “ had not
received the light.”
The Mason Clavel, in his Histoire Pittoresque de la
Franc-maconnerie et des Soctetes Secretes, 1843, gives
a long and interesting account of the “ Holy Vehm,”
linking it also, in its general aim, with the Assassins. He
says:
“ What, in its beginnings, had an appearance of equity and
salutary result degenerated later into a crying abuse. The
association no longer used its power to protect the feeble against
the oppression of the strong; it employed it to satisfy personal
vengeance; . . . [having ended by losing the support of the
people] it was forced to succumb under the weight of the
universal reprobation it had stirred up.”
He gives the oath taken at a reception; receptions
were always held in a cave or in the solitary depths
of some forest, under a hawthorn tree:
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE IOI
“ I swear to be faithful to the secret Tribunal, to defend it
against myself, against water, sun, moon, stars, foliage of trees,
all living beings, all that God has created between heaven and
earth; against father, mother, brothers, sisters, wife, children,
finally all men, the head of the Empire alone excepted [the Em­
peror was as a rule a Wissend,\ ; to uphold the judgment of the
secret Tribunal, to aid in its executions and denounce to the
present or any other secret Tribunal all misdemeanours against
its jurisdiction, which may come to my knowledge . . . so that the
culprit should be judged as by law or judgment be suspended
with the assent of the accusor. [No one and nothing created by
God] will be able to persuade me to break this oath. . . . So help
me God and his saints.”
Further, Le Couteulx de Canteleu writes of this ter­
rible Tribunal:
“ In the old acts, still retained at Dortmund, the members
of these tribunals were often designated under the name of Rose-
Croix; there were three degrees of initiation: the Francs-juges,
the real Francs-juges who executed the sentences of the first,
and the Saints-juges of the secret Tribunal, whose duty it was to
observe, to scour the country, and report on what went on.”
They had signs and words for recognition. In 1371,
after the Peace of Westphalia, they, reinforced by the
wandering and proscribed Templars, according to Clavel,
established themselves throughout the whole of eastern
Germany, the Red Country, and the principal seat of
the Holy Vehm was then at Dortmund and Westphalia.
Although the abuses became so great and their power
so formidable, it was only about the seventeenth century
that their power was broken. As Baron de Bock says
in his Histoire du Tribunal Secret, 1801: “ These Tri­
bunals, according to some, were never formally abolished
by the laws of the Empire; they were only brought back
to their original destination and circumscribed to the
districts where they had the right to exercise their juris­
diction,” which was ultimately public and very limited.
Jews were not admitted into the “ Holy Vehm,” and
until the sixteenth century were not punishable under
the Tribunals. Whether it still existed or not in some
102 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
secret organism, the old Vehmic spirit strongly marked
the first Masonic lodges created in Germany during the
eighteenth century, approved of and supported by
Frederick the Great and his successors. His policy was
to break the Franco-Austrian Alliance of 1756, and
establish a united Germany under Prussian domination.
Again according to Clavel:
“ Frederick the Great was received at Brunswick, 14-15
August, 1738, unknown to his father, the reigning King, who was
always opposed to the establishment of the society in the State. . . .
Becoming King, the Templar Masonic propaganda met with no
further obstacles.”
In 1740 he encouraged the foundation, at Berlin,
of La Grande Loge Nationale Aux Trots Globes. He
is said to have organised, in 1762, the 25 degrees of
Scottish Masonry superimposed upon the Masonry of
Saint-John, bringing it thus into more direct relations
with the Templar system. After the apparent dissolu­
tion of Weishaupt's Illuminati Fessler, as Eckert says,
took upon himself the task of giving an exterior form
to the aims and methods of Illuminism. He, therefore,
organised in Prussia the Grande Loge Royal York A
I’Amitie, under the patronage of the Prince Royal, after­
wards Frederick-William III, which served as a centre
for anti-Christian and anti-social conspiracy. The idea
of the reunion of Germany under Prussia never ceased
to be the aim of these lodges, and after 1848 Bismarck
was the man who grouped all the forces of secret societies
under his own direction, and the Jews, allied with him
from 1866, were his most active supporters in this uni­
fication.
And of recent German Masonry, the Revue Inter-
nationale des Societes Secrktes, 21 June, 1931, and
1 June, 1933, gave the following information. After
the War all German lodges under whatever obedience
tended towards denying the classic universalism of
Masonry and admitted a Germanism equally strict.
“ It fell back on itself and thought to discover that the world
could only be cured by the culture and exaltation of Germanism.
THE CARBONARI AND i/ aLLIANCE-ISRAELITE 103
And they dogmatically proclaimed it as being specifically German.
Aryan domination, Christian spirituality, the principle of private
property, and a Germanism opposed to all outside influence ” (Dr.
R. Teilhaber—An. Mac. Uni., 1930).
Or as Dr. Steiner, late head of Anthroposophy or
“ Christian Illuminism,” said at Stuttgart, 1918, the
only nation in the world that knows right from wrong
is the German nation, and Germany must fulfil her
mission, otherwise European civilisation will be ruined.
Karl Marx
It has been said with good reason that the origin
of Leninism and Bolshevism was firstly the Encyclo­
pedists, and secondly, Marxist and other Socialist
systems. The first were the atheists, philosophes, and
economistes of the Hotel d’Holbach, a lodge or literary
academy founded about 1769, of which Voltaire was
honorary and permanent president, having d’Alembert,
Condorcet, Diderot, La Harpe, and others as members.
Most books and pamphlets against religion, morals, and
the Government were written and controlled by them; in
this lodge they were revised, added to, cut, and corrected
to suit their revolutionary propaganda, creating the men­
tal, moral, and political outlook which brought about the
French Revolution of 1789. Further, we have shown
how Freemasonry, Carbonarism, and Martinism spread
their cankers, secretly initiating the ideas which event­
ually led in part to the Russian Revolution of 1917.
Out of this secret Masonry was built up the simpler out­
side manifestations, the Marxist and other Socialist
systems, which in Russia culminated in the present Soviet
regime of collectivism, slavery, immorality, and atheism.
Their aim was that of Weishaupt—liberty and equality
of the forests, upon the ruins of religion and
property.
In 1850 several towns of Germany possessed
workers’ associations called communes. The heads of
this conspiracy were Engels and Marx, and at the head
of their manifesto, 1851, was written: “ Proletarians of
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
all countries unite! ” In 1862 the association developed
immensely under the name of the International Associa­
tion of Workers, and finally in 1864, at an assembly of
workers in London, a committee was nominated of fifty
members, who elaborated the statutes. Mazzini’s mani­
festo and statutes were rejected and those of Marx
unanimously adopted and ratified later at the Congress
of Geneva in 1866. The International had two charac­
teristics: the simple, non-political Socialists, and the
political Jacobin Socialists; it is also curious to note that
the latter almost inevitably eliminated or absorbed the
former. Each year the all-supreme Congress indicated
the seat of the General Council and nominated its mem­
bers. This seat was at first in London, but in 1873 it
was transferred to New York.
From 1864 to 1870 the International continued to
develop; at its congresses the most revolutionary motions
were heard and applauded, and in 1870 it was the pro­
moter of the short-lived Paris Commune. Everywhere
it was felt; the poison of its doctrines ate into the social
life of all countries. As Dupont said at the Brussels
Congress: “ We no longer want Governments, for
Governments crush us with taxes . . . we no longer want
armies, for armies massacre us; we <no longer want re­
ligion, for religion stifles the intelligence.” And at a
meeting of Internationals in London, 1869, Vezinier
said: “ The negation of Divinity is to affirm man in his
strength and liberty. As for the family, we repudiate
it with all our force in the name of the emancipation of
mankind. . . .”
Besides the proletarian International and the uni­
versal republican International, there was that of
I!Alliance Internationale de la democratie-socialiste,
organised by Bakunin, 1850-60, which published its
manifesto in 1868. It aimed at complete levelling of all
men, it declared itself atheist, it desired the abolition of
cults, the substitution of science for faith, and human
justice for Divine justice. The workers’ International
inscribed on its banner: “ Community of Property ” ;
the republicans’ International: “ Community of Power
104
THE CARBONARI AND l’aLLIANCE-ISRAELITE 105
the democrats’ International: “ Community of Property,
Power, Women, and war against God.”
This last was more terrible because of its advanced
negations. In i860 this Socialist-Democrats’ Inter­
national was affiliated to the International of the
Workers, retaining a secret organisation, becoming a
state within a state. Trouble arose, and the alliance was
dissolved, but was soon reorganised by Bakunin as the
Federation jurassienne, and was excommunicated later
by the International Congress at The Hague. Of these
anarchists the Nihilist Kropotkin wrote: “ Two great
currents of ideas were found, the popular State and
Anarchy—‘an-archy,’that is to say, complete abolition of
States and organisation of free federation of popular
forces, production, and consumption.”
In Russia the Nihilists were what the Socialist-
Democrats, or the Federation jurassienne, were else­
where, only they increased to the utmost the principles
of anarchy and destruction. Their dogma, which has
given them their name, is that all is nothingness, zero,
such as we find among the Manichasans and Martinists;
they profess gross materialism, a return to nature. As
Winterer wrote: “ Nihilism is not a system, it is a nega­
tion of all religious, moral, political, and social order.”
It spread like the canker it was throughout Russia, and
deeply attacked all organs of the social body; it included
all ranks of Russian society—nobility, clergy, bourgeois,
and officials, but few peasants. Its most valuable mem­
bers were the cultured women of the universities. The
heads of Nihilism were not in Russia, but in Western
Europe, chiefly Switzerland. As Winterer continued:
“ If Nihilism could for a short time only have at its disposal
the enormous resources of the immense Empire, we would see a
devastating torrent such as the world has never seen before pre­
cipitate itself from east to west, carrying upon the entire continent
its terrible ravages."
The creators of theoretic Marxism were Jews, or
of Jewish family, from Karl Marx to Trotsky and his
band. The Jew, Dr. Angelo Rappoport, member of the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
106
Bund and of the Poale Sion, in his book, The Pioneers
of the Russian Revolution, 1918, wrote:
“ The Bund, or General Union of the Jewish Workers, was
founded in 1897. It is a political and economic association of the
proletarian Jews. . . . It carried on active propaganda in Yid­
dish . . . [it] served as model to those who fought for liberty and
were pioneers of the Russian Revolution. There was not a
political organisation in the vast Empire which was not influenced
by the Jews or directed by them—the Social-Democrats, the Revo­
lutionary Socialist parties, and the Polish Socialist Party, all had
Jews among their directors. . . .”
Moreover, the Jewish World, 25 June, 1931, said: “ The
real author of the Five-Years’ Plan, Kaganovitz, is a
Jew, and what is more, a great favourite of Stalin.”
Are we not, in Bolshevism, witnessing that devastat­
ing torrent, feared by Winterer, having at its disposal
the enormous resources of the immense Empire, pouring
its ravages—economic, social, religious, and political—
into the life of all countries, working for this Jewish
World Revolution and World Domination?
In his book, Le Temps de la Colere, 1932, R. Vallery-
Radot writes: “ It is well to observe that in April 1917,
the Judseo-Mason and financier of Wall Street, Jacob
Schiff, head of the firm of Kuhn Loeb and Co., had
publicly boasted of having had a share in the Russian
Revolution.” And of the Bolshevik philosophy, M.
Pierre Dominique, brilliant editor of LaRepublique}sa.ys\
“ The Bolshevists have therefore a philosophy. Let us ask
from whence have they got it? To be frank, they have drawn
this philosophy from L’Encyclopedic, which was a vast enterprise
of atheism and which, politically speaking, expressed itself in a
precise way at the end of the eighteenth century by the French
Revolution. They are attached to a philosophy which we find
at the root of all socialist systems propagated during the nineteenth
century, and particularly at the root of the Marx system. Thus
its early source: L’Encyclopedic; later source and very diverse:
the series of contemporaneous socialist systems. . . . Such are
the deep origins of Leninism and of the Soviet revolution.”
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 107
Further, both Bolshevism and Judaeo-Masonry work
for a Universal Republic by World Revolution.
In his famous Catechism, as given in the Revue des
Deux Mondes, i June, 1880, Bakunin thus describes the
revolutionary tool:
“ The revolutionary is a man dedicated. He must have neither
personal interests, business, sentiments, nor property. He must
be absolutely absorbed in a single exclusive interest, a single
thought, a single passion, revolution. He despises and hates actual
morals; for him all is moral which favours the triumph of revolu­
tion, and immoral and criminal which impedes it. Between him
and society there is a fight to the death, incessant and irrecon­
cilable. He must be prepared to die, to endure torture, to put to
death with his own hands all those who are obstacles to revolu­
tion. So much the worse for him if he has in this world links of
family, friendship, or love. He is not a true revolutionary if his
attachments stop his arm. ' Nevertheless, he must live in the midst
of society feigning to be what he is not. He must penetrate
everywhere, among the upper classes as among the middle, in the
shop, the Church, the Army, the literary world, the secret police,
and even the Imperial parlour. He must consider his subordinates
as part of the revolutionary capital placed at his disposal, and he
must dispose of it economically so as to draw all possible profit
from it.”
Further one reads in the statutes of U.Alliance
humanitaire universelle:
“ Kings, nobles, the aristocracy of money, employees of the
police or of the administration, priests, and permanent armies are
the enemies of mankind. Against them one has every right and
every duty. All is permitted to annihilate them: violence, ruse,
shot and shell, poison, and the dagger; the end sanctifies the
means.”
To-day the Masonic review VAccacia, writes:
“ Between Church and Freemasonry it is a war to
the death, without mercy.” And comparing this Judaeo-
Masonry and Revolution, M. Xavier Vallat aptly
explains:
“ Therefore we have on one side an organisation in appear­
ance essentially anti-religious, Freemasonry, and it is found that
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
108
in addition it follows a revolutionary, social, and political aim!
On the other side a Revolution in appearance political and social,
to-day unveils itself as being profoundly atheistical! This singular
meeting behind the mask of violent antagonism is of a nature to
cause awakened minds to think” (R .IS S ., I January, 1933).
The revolutionary means of propaganda differs from
that of yesterday only in its increased and extended field
and facilities, including such international intercom­
munications as press, wireless, cinemas, etc. We have
also our modern Encyclopaedists, not a whit less powerful
or persistent than those of the eighteenth century.
Writing of that century in his Paroles d3
un revolte, the
noted Nihilist Kropotkin said:
“ The brochure placed within reach of the masses the ideas
of the philosophes and economists, precursors of the Revolution;
pamphlets and leaflets stirred up agitation by attacking the three
principal enemies: the King and his court, the aristocracy, the
clergy. They did not theorise, they derided . . . the police in vain
raided the libraries and arrested colporteurs; the unknown authors
escaped to continue their work. . . . Placards printed or written
by hand appeared on every occasion when something happened to
interest the public. . . . It awakened in the hearts of the peasants,
workers, and bourgeois hatred against their enemies, it announced
the day of liberation and vengeance. . . . It overran the villages
and prepared minds.”
To-day in every country the Moscow-directed Com­
munists have their centres of activity, their pamphlets,
and their journals of revolt against capital, civil, and
religious authority; their single thought, their single
passion, the creation of a Soviet machine working for
World Revolution which would bring in, not as they
think, the reign of democracy, but that of unknown task­
masters whose slaves they would eventually become.
And to quote M. R. Vallery-Radot again:
“ Having exiled the gods from the City, the modem world
seeks for something to replace them, they know not what, which
exists nowhere. . . . As on the eve of the Revolution, we per­
ceive on the surface a diffused odour of heresy: the same
treachery of words, the same confusion of principles . . . strange
apostles try to reconcile with Christianity the Masonic ideologies
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 109
of Democracy, Humanity, Society, Progress, Pacifism, and Inter­
nationalism ; by unavoidable but unilateral endosmose their dogmas
dilute themselves into abstractions, their mysteries into politics.”
Again:
“ It is, that the Peace, whose fruits we are tasting to-day,
should have nothing in common with former Treaties. It would
accomplish the great Masonic plan sketched in 1789, taken up
again in 1830, then in 1848 and in 1870, by proclaiming the
coming of Universal Democracy.”
What was said by Disraeli in 1876 might still be
applied to present world conditions:
“ The Governments of this country have to deal, not only
with Governments, emperors, kings, and ministers, but also with
secret societies, elements which must be taken into account, which
at the last moment can bring all plans to naught, which have agents
everywhere, agents without scruples, who incite assassinations and
can, if necessary, lead a massacre.”
And according to Disraeli men of Jewish race were
found at the head of every such political secret society.
George Sand also wrote: “ There are moments when the
history of Empires only nominally exists, and when there
is nothing really alive but the sects hidden within them.”
The mother of all these secret societies is Judaeo-
Masonry, whose principles are identical with those
realised with Revolution. As Claudio Jannet says:
“ It extends itself throughout the entire world, covering itself
with mystery, acting in all parts of the social body . . . binding
within it, by secret links, individual societies apparently most
different. Its doctrines are everywhere the same; its unity, its
universality thus explains the unity and universality of Revo­
lution.”
As to the directing power, in the report of the Third
Congress at Nancy, 1882, the orator, Knight Kadosch,
believed that the last degrees carried on an International
Masonic work of very great penetration, and that
probably from there came those mysterious words which
n o THE TRAIL O
F THE SERPENT
in the midst of uprisings passed at times through the
crowds, setting them on fire “ for the good of humanity.”
This secret hierarchy was also said to be Rosicrucian, a
kind of Third Order, such as the “ Hidden Chiefs ” of
the Stella Matutina.
Rene Guenon, orientalist, moreover explains in the
Voile d’lsis, January 1933:
“ Even if certain of these organisations, among the most
outside, find themselves in opposition to each other, that will in no
way prevent the effective existence of unity of direction. To sum
up, there is something comparable to the role played by different
actors in the same play in a theatre, and.who, although opposed
to each other none the less agree in the progress of the whole;
each organisation also plays the role to which it is destined; and
this can extend also to the esoteric domain where the elements
which fight against one another none the less all obey, although
quite unconsciously and involuntarily, a single direction whose
existence they do not even suspect.”
And as Henri Misley, who took an active part in Italy’s
revolutions about 1830, said: “ I know the world a little,
and I know that in all this great future that is being
prepared, there are only four or five who hold the cards.
A greater number believe they hold them, but they deceive
themselves.”
Again, in the Congress at Nancy, 1882, it was said:
“ What force will not Masonry have upon the outside world,
when around each lodge will exist a crowd of societies whose
members, ten or fifteen times more numerous than the Masons,
will receive inspiration and aim from the Masons, and will unite
their efforts with ours for the great work which we pursue.
Within this circle once founded, one must perpetuate with care a
nucleus of young Masons in such a way that the young people of
the schools will find themselves directly subjected to Masonic
influences.”
In the Convent, Grand Orient of France, 1923, was
resolved: “ An active propaganda is urgent, so that Free­
masonry shall again become the inspirer, the mistress of
the ideas through which democracy is to be brought to
I ll
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE
perfection. . . . To influence social elements by spread­
ing widely the teaching received within the institution.”
Some of these elements were “ sports societies, boy
scouts, art circles, choral and instrumental groups. All
organisations which attract Republican youth to works
of education, physical and intellectual.” But as Mazzini
exclaimed: “ The difficulty is not to convince people,
some great words, liberty, rights of man, progress,
equality, fraternity, despotism, privilege, tyranny and
slavery, are sufficient for that; the difficulty is to unite
them. The day when they are united will be the day of
the new era.”
In La Temps de la Colere, M. Vallery-Radot, 1932,
further elucidates the methods:
“ What has been called the conquest of revolution is in
reality only an implacable dogma affirmed by one party to the
exclusion of all others . . . this party has known how to extend
its conquests with admirable method, sometimes subterranean, as
under the First Empire; sometimes combining infiltration with
violent demonstration, as under the Restoration, the July
Monarchy, the Republic of 1848; then again taking up its hidden
intrigue under the Second Empire, and, finally, frankly unveiling
its game under the Third Republic. . . . This intangible general
Will revealed to the world by a half-fool as the sacred emanation
of an autonomous humanity, who has to render account to no one
but itself, this general Will calls itself Democracy, Progress,
Revolution, Republic, Humanity, Laicity, but it is always the same
Power, which shares it with none, jealously guarded by its priests
and doctors."
And showing what may happen in the world if the nations
do not awaken and realise the secret undermining force
which is seeking the destruction of Christian civilisation,
he says:
“ There are in the tropics houses which appear solid, although
slowly and surely the white ants are busy gnawing the internal
structure. One day the inhabitants sit on the chairs, the chairs
fall into dust; they lean against the walls, and the walls crumble
away. Thus it is with our civilisation, of which we are so
proud."
112 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
The following is taken from an article by O. de
Fremond, in the Revue Internationale des Societes
Secretes, i July, 1932:
“ Now, let us not forget, even in the opinion of the most
optimistic, the people themselves are almost entirely de-Chris-
tianised . . . (Mercure de France, 1 April, 1932).
“ And according to Cardinal Verdier: ‘ Every day we see the
number of Pagans increase.’ . . .
“ The causes. . . .
“ Without going back to the Renaissance or even to the
Reform, which have both prepared the ground, we find as first
cause the Revolution, called French, but in reality European, world
even; the Revolution everywhere spreading nationalistic ideas and
applying, more apparent than real, the false principles of the
‘ Rights of Man ’: Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. . , . Let us
not omit the Regency, which preceded by so little the Revolution.
The great crisis, says Demolins in his Histaire de France, 1880,
d propos the system of law, has had deplorable consequences: it
developed above all in the higher classes, cupidity, craving for
material powers, love of speculation; it displaced fortunes and
rendered them unstable by detaching them from real estate in
order to found them on the money-changing operations of the
Bourse; it produced also in the organisation of property and
public fortune an upset which should soon contribute to the entire
collapse of society.
“ Where are we a half-century later?
“ The enormous material progress realised, thanks to the great
discoveries of the nineteenth century and the leap they have still
more made in the twentieth by bringing these discoveries to
perfection; the new facilities of existence which flow from them
instead of keeping people in admiration of such marvels, by
reasonable use of them, in gratitude in short towards the Creator,
upon whom they depend and who dispenses them to us, the people
have, on the contrary, turned their backs upon religious practices
and even on belief.
“ Does this movement act of itself spontaneously and because
of human passions of pleasure and pride, etc.? No! for the
great part, a power has intervened which has pushed the wheel
more and more: that which, systematically, credits all to man, his
sagacity, his power to bring to perfection, and thus substitutes him,
gradually and almost imperceptibly, in place of the Divine Creator,
suppressing at the same time all obligation towards Him. First
THE CARBONARI AND i/ALLIANCE-ISRAELITE 113
indifference, then unbelief. The mixture of rationalist and
materialist ideas. . . .
“ It places all religions on the same equality: that is to say,
recognises no religion. . . . What is the result? A society un­
balanced and demoralised, where crimes abound, all the more so
that the provocation of the Press more often remains unpunished,
where general materialisation accentuates itself day by day. . . .
From top to bottom of the social ladder there is no longer any
but one motive, pleasure, but one agent, money. . .
Is it not “ the greater Judaism, gradually casting
non-Jewish thoughts and systems into Jewish moulds,”
as described by the Jewish World of 9 February, 1883?
CHAPTER VI
THE JEW ISH QUESTION
In order to illustrate the history of the Jewish people
from its earliest beginnings down through the ages to
the present day, as seen and depicted by the Jewish mind
itself, we give the following account of a Jewish pageant,
details of which were received from a friend who wit­
nessed it in Chicago, and also from the Chicago Tribune,
4 July, 1933-
This marvellous, impressive, and spectacular
pageant of “ The Romance of a People,” tracing the
history of the Jewish race through the past forty cen­
turies, was given on the Jewish Day in the Soldier
Field, Chicago, 3-4 July, 1933. It was listened to almost
in silence by 125,000 people, the vast majority being
Jews. Most of the performers, 3,500 actors and 2,500
choristers, were amateurs, but with their race’s inborn
gift for vivid drama, and to their rabbis and cantors,
deeply learned in centuries of Hebrew ritual, much of
the authoritative music and pantomime was due. “ Take
the curious placing of thumb to thumb and forefinger to
forefinger by the High Priest when he lifted his hands,
palms outwards, to bless the multitude. . . . Much of
the drama’s text was from the Old Testament and
orthodox ritual of Judaism.” A Hebrew chant in
unison, soft and low, was at once taken up with magical
effect by many in the audience, and orthodox Jews
joined in many of the chants and some of the spoken
rituals.
The story as shown in the pageant was imparted to
the audience by hidden voices, almost perfectly amplified
—the drama of the Egyptian bondage, the shame of
idolatry, the woes of exile, the bitterness of defeat and
desolation by the Legions of Rome. The return to
114
THE JEWISH QUESTION 115
monotheism, the joy and triumphs of temple-building and
nation-building. Everywhere were seen the interlaced
triangles of the six-pointed star and the white flag of
Palestine with the two blue bars and this same star in be­
tween. As Dr. Chaim Weizmann stated, there were
now about 200,000 Jews in Palestine, and it was proposed
to get 250,000 more out of Germany into Palestine. But
what of the rights of the Arabs!
Our correspondent quotes from the official pro­
gramme, with its Foreword, and The Visionary on the
Mountain Top, and in these will be found the hidden
significance of the whole imposing pageant. “ It was
the largest Jewish assemblage since Temple days,” and
as the Visionary says:
“ Within all the cross currents within Jewish life, amidst
the inner divisions which bore witness alike to the weakness of
the Jew and to the strength of the Jewish convictions, one truth
asserted itself, with a power which silenced all doubts: the Jewish
people lived. . . . In number, superior to any Jewish generation
of. the past, in the caliber of its human material, as powerful as
ever, in self-consciousness, more alert and more proud than it
had been for centuries, it was entering, not on a decline, but on
a new efflorescence.,'
It is a racial dream, not a religious spectacle, and possibly
meant to be “ prophetic ” of coming world power.
According to the official programme, the Jew is
found in trouble under Alexander of Macedon, under
Assyria, Persia, Rome, in Spain, Russia, Ancient
England, Poland, Roumania, and now in Germany.
Why ? Our correspondent concludes: “ I think the
secret of it is found in the imperium in imperio matter
and in the common programme towards which each
imperium in imperio moves, and has been moving for
forty centuries.” As the Visionary says:
“ Those who stand too close to the canvas of history while
it is being woven will err in their estimate of forces. Minor set­
backs will take on the aspects of decisive defeats, minor advances
the aspects of major victories. Only in the perspective of all our
history—the longest perspective of which any people can boast—
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPEN!
116
shall we be able to estimate the significance of recent events
To-day the hearts of the Jews are oppressed by the bitter events
in Germany; let them, while they extend help to the victims oi
a cruel regime, recall that governments and rulers change, the
Jewish people remains. In other lands than Germany there
smoulders still a dangerous threat against Jewish life. Let the
Jews be prepared. . . . Let their fears be tempered by an under­
standing of their long past, and their hopes be rendered sober
by an appreciation of the long future before them. Let them
measure all tasks, all difficulties, and all prospects by the standard
of a world-wide outlook.”
Again our correspondent notes:
“ As I looked upon that spectacle, as I saw the flags of the
nations carried to their places before the reproduction of the
Jewish Temple in Jerusalem, and as I saw the six-pointed star, the
illuminated interlaced triangles, shining above all the flags of all
the peoples of all the world, my mind turned back to what Judge
Harry M. Fisher, Chairman of the Jewish Day Committee, said in
advance as to the whole idea of this pageant: ' The idea sum­
marised by the prophet Isaiah—“ At the end of days all peoples
shall be coming to the mountain of the Lord ”—will be por­
trayed/ ”
But all reference to the Founder' of Christianity was
omitted in the Pageant.
With regard to the significance of the symbols and
the Jewish unity of race and purpose—the High Priest
joining thumbs and forefingers in blessing the people,
thereby represented the Hebrew Divine Triangle, the
Trinity in Unity of the Ineffable Name—Yod, He, Vau—
the Creative Principle which becomes manifest and
powerful in the final He, the material basis in and
through which it acts. It is Yahveh, the Tetragramma-
ton, a symbol of creation or generation, the mysterious
union of their God with his creatures and which is said
to be all-powerful in working miracles or magic. This
Ineffable Name was looked upon by the Jews as too holy
and sacred to be spoken, but so that it might not be lost
the High Priest uttered it once a year in the temple at
the great feast of Atonement. Further, they hold that
THE JEWISH QUESTION 1 1 7
the true name will be revealed at the coming of their
Messiah; and to many the Messiah means the race!
Of the interlaced triangles or Solomon’s Seal, it is
said in the Lesser Assembly, par 720: “ So also here,
when the Male is joined to the Female, they both con­
stitute one complete body, and all the universe is in a
state of happiness because all things receive blessing from
their perfect body. And this is an arcanum.” It is
the star of the Macrocosm, the dual forces in all nature,
the sign of a power which nothing can resist. It con­
stitutes the secret power of the Jew through which he
dominates the mind and actions of men and nations.
It is the Hebrew talisman of power and illuminism.
Turning to Nomades by the Jewish writer Kadmi
Cohen, 1929, we read:
" The perfect Semite is positive and impassioned. The two
elements exercise a reciprocal influence, each moderating what is
too excessive and therefore unlikely to live in the other, creating
a being apart who easily arrives at domination, for nothing can
stop such a man. . . . It is the eternal opposition of Shylock and
Jessica. It is the illogical and monstrous mixture of the rarest
qualities with the most abject defects, mixture of irresistible force
and of irremediable weakness.”
And of their race-idea of God, Kadmi Cohen says:
" The Jews are not a part of a vast Whole which they re­
integrate in dying, but they are a Whole in themselves, defying
space, time, life, and death. Can God be outside the Whole?
If he exists, necessarily he confounds himself with this Whole. . . .
Thus Divinity in Judaism is contained in the exaltation of the
entity represented by the Race—passional entity, eternal flame,
it is the Divine essence. It must be preserved and perpetuated,
therefore the idea of pure and impure was created.”
It is pantheistic and cabalistic.
We might, therefore, conclude that The Romance
of a People represents this Jewish Divinity, the eternity
and unity of the Race and its everliving hope of bringing
all nations under the influence of the uniting and illu-
minising power of these interlaced triangles. Hence the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Il8
many illuminising sects and cults of to-day, some of
which are nominally Christian, but in reality all are
cabalistic, gnostic, pantheistic, and instruments of
Judaism.
In Nomades, which is an essay on the Jewish soul,
we find many interesting and enlightening ideas on the
place, as the author sees it, of the Jew in the world.
Socialist, Communist, revolutionary, passional, utili­
tarian, unitarist, the Jew is yet a fixed solidarity, un­
differentiated. Kadmi Cohen w r i t e s ‘I am that I am/
said the Eternal. The Eternal—it is the race. One in
substance—undifferentiated. One in time—stable and
eternal.”
From a psychological point of view there are two
kinds of Jews: Hassidim, the passionals, the Mediter­
ranean mystics, cabalists, sorcerers, poets, orators,
frenetics, dreamers, voluptuaries, prophets; and the
Mithnagdim, the Utilitarians, the Nordics, cold, rea-
soners, egoists, positives, and on the extreme left, the
vulgar elements, keen on gain, without scruples, arrivists,
merciless. The “ Passionalism ” of the Semites is char­
acterised by
“ a nervous excitability, a chronic exaltation of the passion, in
which commingle the interior life of the individual and its ex­
terior manifestations, a state in which sentiment, idea, and will
are confounded together, where for the lack of the powerful
corrective of logic, the flights of imagination know no bounds,
where life and human activity are deprived of a regulator, and
move outside of material and concrete factors, by the sole in­
terior force of the soul/'
A condition which apparently corresponds to the un­
balanced psychic visions of Illuminism!
“ It is not only this fervent ‘ Passionalism ’ which conditions
the attitude of the Jews in the political and social order. . . .
They always experience the need to seek unity. Because of that
they are sentimentally led to reject in a more or less absolute
fashion all which is contradictory to this unity. For them, what
is differentiation is an attack on the principle of unity; injustice
and inequality are differentiations. They must be rejected or
lessened. . . . Thus is explained the Socialist and Communist
THE JEWISH QUESTION 119
tendencies of which they are reproached. . . . It is in what is
called business that the Jewish soul, by utilitarianism with which
he is so strongly impregnated, finds a liberal career: commerce,
trade, banks, finance, and industries. It is this same character­
istic which in all times and in all places has brought upon the
traditional Jew sarcasms and reprobations, often enough, let us
recognise it, justified.”
The Jewish role in world Socialism
“ is so important that it is not possible to pass it over in silence.
Is it not sufficient to recall the names of the great revolutionaries
of the nineteenth century and twentieth, the Karl Marxes, Las-
salles, Kurt Eiseners, Bela Kuhns, Trotskys, and Leon Blumes,
in order to find thus mentioned the names of all theorists of
modern Socialism? . . . Further, in Europe in the same years,
the role played by the Jews in all revolutionary movements was
considerable. . . . 4Revolutionarism ’ exacts, at least technically,
a very strong dose of passionalism together with the esprit de
masse of the crowd. The different individuals, in principle auto­
nomous, blend even to disappearing in the whole, and the ‘magma '
thus created takes on an aspect entirely different from the indi­
vidual figures, however characteristic each may be, of which it
was primarily composed.”
Again:
“ The same basis of a State: opposing interests balanced by com­
bating each other, is wanting. In its place passions animating
popular masses, passions deprived of the corrective of the con­
sideration of realities, passions let loose at the will of mere psychic
factors . . . these factors which agitate the masses muting their
material power of reason, which those who take no account of
imponderables will find mysterious. Like a compass needle, in­
fluenced by a magnetic storm, imperceptible to our senses, becomes
erratic, sending astray the vessel which trusts to its indications,
losing it in the mysterious ways of the ocean. . . .
“ In a general way, almost everywhere, the Jews are Re­
publicans. The Republic tending towards levelling has always
been one of their most cherished aspirations. Not the Republic
which affirms and consolidates the privileges of the possessors, but
a Republic . . . whose theoretic mission is to make most social
inequalities disappear. For them the Republic is not crystallised
in a constitutional formula: it is a constant progress, a slow but
120 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
sure march towards the meeting of the heights and abysses, uni­
fication, individual, social, and political equalisation. . . .
“ Finally, a phenomenon of contradiction attests to the exist­
ence of the Semite concept of unity: it is that of anti-Semitism.
. . . An anti . . . ism shows the reality of the thing, the system.
We do not mean that vulgar anti-Semitism, fermentation of hate
and calumnies, composed of errors and absurdities, factor of in­
justice and crimes. . . . We speak of that anti-Semitism which
is untroubled by passion, a particular form of judgment, claiming
logic, reasoned and rational. Such an anti-Semitism has its own
contention, its intrinsic value, its force of ideas and action. Quali­
fied representative, champion of a determined order of thought,
of sentiments, beliefs, and results, it has, thanks to the powerful
extension of Christianity . . . established a mode of civilisation
almost universal. If it is opposed to the Semite concept of unity
in almost all domains, if it rises up against it on almost every
ground, it does not ignore it, it does not deny it: it affirms by con­
trast the substance, the consistence, and Constance of this concept.”
Showing the two opposing factors, Kadmi Cohen con­
tinues :
“ To national anti-Semitism, produced by the recent genius
of peoples, is opposed the age-old genius of the race (nationalities
and a race identical in itself). . . . To intellectual anti-Semitism,
produced by the claims of reason, constructed on the solid basis
of logic, is opposed a form of thought, troubled, incoherent,
passional. To social anti-Semitism, produced by the exigencies
of the most conservative principles—sustained by the force of
order and hierarchism—opposed by a spirit of innate indiscipline,
revolt and unitarism. To economic anti-Semitism produced by
the existence and dominance of the right of property, a conception
resists and attacks which refuses to that right all necessity and
virtue. . . .”
Thus certain of these Jews became inevitably the
ferment of all revolutions, and even Bakunin, Social-
Democrat, anarchist and nihilist, came up against the
power of this Jewish unity. In his Study of the German
Jew s, 1869, he wrote:
“ I know in expressing with this frankness my ultimate
opinion of the Jews, I expose myself to enormous danger. Many
people share it, but very few dare to express it publicly, for the
THE JEWISH QUESTION 121
Jewish sect . . . constitutes to-day a veritable power in Europe.
It reigns despotically in commerce, in the banks, and it has in­
vaded three-quarters of German journalism, and a very consider­
able portion of the journalism of other countries. Woe, then,
to him who has the clumsiness to displease it;! ”
He was not a Jew hater or detractor, but the Jew saw
to it that his Study lay unpublished for over thirty
years.
In a recent book, Israel aux mysterieux destins, by
A. Cavalier and P. d’Halterive, we find the following
useful statements on anti-Semitism by various eminent
Jews. The Jewish State, by Theodore Herzl, the cele­
brated initiator of Zionism, an essay on the modern
solution of the Jewish question, appeared in 1895, creat­
ing a great sensation in the Israelite world. In it he
writes:
“ The Jewish question exists wherever the Jews live, how­
ever small their number. Where it does not exist it is imported
by Jew immigrants. We naturally go where we are not perse­
cuted, and, still persecution is the result of our appearance. . . .
By persecution we cannot be exterminated . . . the strong Jews
turn proudly to their race when persecution bursts out. Entire
branches of Judaism may disappear, break away; the tree lives.”
Again:
“ I believe I understand anti-Semitism which is a very com­
plex movement. I see it as a Jew, but without hatred or fear.
I recognise what in anti-Semitism is rude jesting, vulgar jealousy
of metier, hereditary prejudice; but also what can be considered
as in fact legitimate defence”
Those who foresee its disappearance in the develop­
ment of universal love or human brotherhood are, accord­
ing to Herzl, “ soft dreamers ” or “ sentimental dotards.”
Further he says;
“ We incessantly produce average intelligences who remain
without outlet, and who, because of that, constitute a social danger.
. . . The cultivated Jews without fortune naturally all tend
to-day towards Socialism. . . . Among the peoples anti-Semitism
122 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
grows from day to day, from hour to hour, and must continue
to grow, for the causes continue to exist and cannot be sup­
pressed. . . . At the bottom we become revolutionaries by prole-
tarising ourselves, and we form the inferior officers of all
subversive parties. At the top, at the same time, grows our
formidable financial power.”
Herzl had understood and proclaimed the failure of
assimilation. In the Jewish Chronicle, 28 April, 1911,
M. Schindler, an American Rabbi, wrote:
“ For fifty years I have been a resolute partisan of assimila­
tion of the Jews, and have believed in it. To-day I confess my
error. The American melting-pot will never produce the fusion
of one Jew. Fifty years ago we were near to assimilating our­
selves to the Americans. But since then two millions of our
brothers (or three) have arrived from the East, keeping their
ancient traditions, bringing with them their old ideal. This army
has submerged us. It is the hand of God. The Jew must differ­
entiate himself from his neighbour; he must know it; he must be
conscious of it; he must be proud of it.”
But as Isaac Blumchen said in Le Droit de la Race
Superieure: “ We are hostile strangers, guests in all
countries, and at the same time we find ourselves at home
in all countries when we are masters there.”
“ I do not intend,” declares Herzl, “ to provoke a softening
of opinion in our favour. It would be idle, and would lack
dignity. I am content to ask the Jews if, in the countries where
we are numerous, it is true that the position of advocates, doctors,
engineers, professors, and employees of all kinds, belonging to
our race, is becoming more and more intolerable.”
And as the Israelite Cerfberr de Medelsheim said
in Les Juifs, 1847;
“ [The Jews] fill in proportion, thanks to their insistence,
more posts than the other communities, Catholic and Protestant.
Their disastrous influence makes itself felt above all in affairs
which have most weight in the fortune of the country; there
is no enterprise in which the Jews have not their large share,
no public loan which they do not monopolise, no disaster which
they have not prepared and by which they do not profit. It is,
THE JEWISH QUESTION 123
therefore, ill-considered to complain, as they always do, they who
have all the favours and who make all the profits! ”
(Quoted also by Gougenot des Mousseaux in Le Jtiif, 1869.)
With regard to the influence of the Jews in the various
revolutions of the nineteenth century, we quote another
Jewish writer, Bernard Lazare, in UAntisemitisme,
1 8 9 4 :
“ During the second revolutionary period which began in
1830 they showed even more fervour than during the first. They
were moreover directly concerned, for, in the majority of Euro­
pean states, they did not enjoy full civic rights. Even those
among them who were not revolutionaries by reason or by tem­
perament were such by self-interest; in working for the triumph
of liberalism they were working for themselves. There is no
doubt that by their gold, their energy, their ability, they sup­
ported and assisted the European revolution. . . . During those
years their bankers, their industrial magnates, their poets, their
writers, their demagogues, prompted by very different ideas more­
over, strive for the same end . . . we find them taking part in
the movement of Young Germany: they were numerous in the
secret societies which formed the ranks of the militant revolu­
tion, in the Masonic lodges, in the groups of Carbonaria, in the
Roman Haute-Vente, everywhere, in France, in Germany, in
Switzerland, in Austria, in Italy."
(Quoted by Leon de Poncins in The Secret Powers behind,
Revolution, 1929.)
Again, Bernard Lazare writes:
“ What virtues and what vices brought upon the Jew this
universal enmity? Why was he in turn equally maltreated and
hated by the Alexandrians and the Romans, by the Persians and
the Arabs, by the Turks and by the Christian nation? Because
everywhere and up to the present day the Jew was an unsociable
being.
“ Why was he unsociable? Because he was exclusive, and
his exclusiveness was at the same time political and religious or,
in other words, he kept to his political, religious cult and his
law. . . . This faith in their predestination, in their election,
developed in the Jews an immense pride; they came to look upon
non-Jews with contempt and often hatred, when patriotic reasons
were added to theological ones.”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
As de Poncins has justly said, the secret forces of sub­
version which must be fought and overcome in order to
return to world sanity are: “ Freemasonry, Judaism, and
Occultism, whose alliance and reciprocal interpretation
no longer require demonstration.” By means of these
the mentality of the Western world has been for long
and still is being Judaised in all departments of life,
producing Socialism, Communism, and Bolshevism,
which if successful would inevitably lead to Jewish
domination and the destruction of Western and Christian
civilisation.
In Le Probleme Juif, 1921, Georges Batault tells us
that when studying Greek civilisation—
“ arrived at the Hellenic period I saw the Jewish people surging
before me armed with its strange and powerful religion, which
throws itself into the conquest of the world. I saw arising face
to face with Hellenism in its splendour, but already declining,
Judaism insinuating, tenacious, and mysterious, which grew and
extended itself over the ancient world like a pernicious evil which
spreads to the detriment of the body it invades. As the success
and then the victory of the Judaic conceptions have marked the
decline and then the ruin of the ancient world, we are fully
justified in maintaining that the Jews brought absolutely nothing
to ancient civilisation except the most powerful ferment of dis­
solution.”
And the chief cause of this destructive ferment of
Judaism lies in its “ exclusivism,” out of which has arisen
its eternal spirit of revolt.
To quote Georges Batault:
“ There is no people in history so narrowly and so fero­
ciously conservative and traditionalist as the People of Israel, and
its national traditions are all religious; we find ourselves in the
presence of this unique, strange, and bizarre composition—a
people-religion and a religion-people, the two ideas are insepar­
able.”
As the Jewish historian Graetz wrote: “ The Talmud
has been the banner which has served as a rallying sign
to the Jews, dispersed in diverse countries; it has main­
tained the unity of Judaism.”
1 2 4
THE JEWISH QUESTION
Batault continues:
125
“ Humanity changes, empires arise and fall, ideals spring up,
become resplendent, and are extinguished, the Jew remains, Juda­
ism remains clothed in its fierce exclusivism, hoping all from the
future, indefatigable, superhuman, inhuman. . . . A people with­
out land, wandering nation, dispersed race, they preserve a
country—their religion . . . ever pursuing the mirage of a golden
age, a new era, a messianic time when the world would live
in joy and peace, subject to Yahveh, serving his Law under the
rule of the sacerdotal people, who had been prepared by trials
for the attainment of this hour. . . . [This] the most conservative
among peoples is justly reputed as being possessed by a spirit
of inextinguishable revolt . . . they are eternally unadaptable, and
can only hope for subversion. . . .”
From the time of Alexander the Great the Jews of
Alexandria, both numerous and powerful, were con­
tinually working sedition and rising in revolt, and these
revolts were religious, not social, due to exclusivism, not
humanitarianism. Realising their power they used the
menace of revolt to gain privileges. Little is known of
the influence and power of the Jews in Rome towards
the end of the Republic, except for a passage from Pro
Flacco, by Cicero. Flaccus, praetor of the province of
Asia, was accused by the Jews through Lelius of laying
hands on the gold which was being sent to Jerusalem by
certain Jews; Cicero, in defending him, said to Lelius:
“ Thou knowest how numerous this tribe is, how united and
how powerful in the assemblies. I will plead in a low voice so
that only the judges may hear, for instigators are not lacking to
stir up the crowd against me, and against all the best citizens.
To scorn, in the interest of the Republic, this multitude of Jews
so often turbulent in the assemblies shows a singular strength
of mind. The money is in the Treasury; they do not accuse us
of theft; they seek to stir up hatreds. . . .”
As Batault added: “ We suddenly learn, not only that
there were Jews in Rome in great numbers, but that
they had political influence which they exercised to the
profit of the popular party against that of Cicero and
the Senate.”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
1 2 6
“ Revolutionaries by doctrine, since all messianism declares
the destruction of all existing order . . . the Jews have drawn
profit from all revolutionary movements in history since the fall
of the Roman Empire. At the Renaissance, a time of perpetual
uprisings, they lent money to Princes and merchants, and were
well-considered; again at the Reformation they took advantage of
religious schisms to further their own beliefs. From the Revolu­
tion of 1789 came the emancipation of the Jews in France, and
their principal advocate was Mirabeau, largely under the influence
of Moise Mendelssohn and Dohm; the revolutions of 1830 and
1848 brought further ameliorations to them.
Coming to the present day Batault continues:
“ The sombre destiny of the Russian Empire has profoundly
terrified souls and brought trouble into the world. The Bolshevik
ideology by its nature and the will of its creatures, is in the first
place international; so that it may have a chance to triumph, it
is not enough to subjugate Russia, it must also disorganise and
subjugate the rest of the world. For this end the Treasury of
Russia, fallen into the hands of the Moscow tyrants, is placed
at the service of an intense outside propaganda, and the funds are
sent into all countries by clever propaganda agents; if three-
quarters of the Bolshevik staff are Jews, its agents abroad with
rare exceptions are all Jews. , . . It appears, therefore, that
Bolshevism is one of the most powerful and actual causes of the
universal anti-Semite movement.”
And of Germany he says:
“ In no place so much as in Germany do the Jews [in
finance, industries and commerce] hold such an important, almost
preponderant part. Therefore it might easily be said that all
the newly-rich and war-profiteers were Jews . . . the Jew-usurer,
the Jew-exploiter, the Jew-profiteer, is an ancient of a thousand
years. . . . The immense majority of the influentials in Austrian
Socialism were and are still Jews [1921]. . . . Finally, in a
certain sense the Jews oppose themselves to non-Jews, above all in
the role they play as initiators and actors in the extreme-left
parties as internationalism opposed to nationalism.”
To conclude;
“ More than ever the study of the Jewish problem is a
pressing reality, but . . . the Jewish question is also more than
THE JEWISH QUESTION \2J
ever taboo; one must not speak of it, still less study it. At most
the right to deny its existence is recognised. Those even who
should be most interested in finding a solution pretend to solve
the problem by abstention or silence which is considered both a
sane method and a high humanitarian idea. . . . Judaism in its
origins and expansions presents an ensemble of sentiments, notions,
and ideas which are the source of veritable systems, religious,
political and social; one has the right to discuss and contest these
systems.”
According to the Jewish Chronicle, 4 April, 1919:
“ . . . that the ideals of Bolshevism at many points are
consonant with the finest ideals of Judaism.” On 22
April of the same year a letter was made public, signed
by ten of the best-known Jews in England, dissociating
themselves and other British Jews from the above state­
ment made by the Jewish Chronicle.
In Le Livre Proscritt a diary written during the
terrors of the Hungarian revolutionary and Bolshevik
movements, Cecile Tormay thus describes this spirit of
Judaism so closely akin to Bolshevism:
“ A bestial tyranny establishes itself over the peoples weak­
ened by the war. The flood-tide carries aWay, in its endless
boilings, cities, nations, and parts of continents. Underground
it breaks forth through burst sewers, invading houses, ascending
the marble staircase of the banks, unfurling itself in the columns
of the journals. At every place where the softened soil appears
to yield, it foams, and everywhere it is the same flood-tide.”
Speaking of its dissolving effect upon Russia, Hungary,
and Bavaria, the author continues:
" So great are the specific differences between the three
peoples that the mysterious similitude of events cannot be because
of the analogies of race, but solely the work of the fourth race
living among the others without mixing with them. Among
modern nations the Jewish people is the last representative of
ancient oriental civilisation. . . . It weeps over the destroyed
ramparts of Jerusalem and unperceived raises new ones. It
complains of being isolated, and by mysterious ways it binds
together the infinite parts of Jerusalem which cover the entire
universe. Everywhere it has connections and links which explain
how capital and the Press concentrated in its hands can serve
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
128
the same plans in all countries in the world. . . . If it glorifies
someone, the latter is glorified throughout the whole world; if it
wishes to ruin someone, the work of destruction operates as if
a single hand directed it. . . . If it teaches revolt and anarchy
to others, itself it admirably obeys invisible guides. . . . How did
it succeed in dissimulating this world plan? . . . They placed in
front of them men of the country, blind, volatile, venal, perverse
or stupid, who served as screens and knew nothing. They then
worked in safety, they the formidable organisers, the sons of the
ancient race, who know how to guard a secret.”
Moreover, Rene Fiilop-Miller, in The Mind and
Face of Bolshevism, 1927, writes of the primitive
Gnostic sects, which for long have dominated peasant
Russia, and even invaded the intelligentsia. As the
Jewish Encyclopcedia says, Gnosticism “ was Jewish in
character long before it became Christian,” and both the
pantheism and rationalism of Judaism, which so often
ends in cabalistic theurgy, are to be found in these sects.
Fiilop-Miller informs us:
“ Almost all the Russian sects, as they existed in the time
of the rule of the Tsars, and still exist in the midst of the
Bolshevik world of orthodox materialism,,show in their spiritual
principles a predominantly religious-rationalist character. It is
true that there are also a number of brotherhoods of orgiastic,
mystical tendencies; but in their rites, religious worship and
articles of faith, a trained psychologist will also recognise, with­
out difficulty, many of the roots and first stages of present-day
Bolshevism. . . . If we pass in review all these Russian sects
we can . . . establish a remarkable advance in the form in
which they express the idea of communism, which is fundamental
in them all, the Molokany and the Dukhobors and all the other
rationalist sects confined themselves to proclaiming a community
of earthly possessions (to these, we are told, Tolstoi owed his
system of social ethics) ; but among the Khlysty we see an
advance: love, marriage and the family have ceased to be a
private matter, and with them we find promiscuous sexual inter­
course. . . . Finally, if we consider that we can hardly be in
error in estimating the number of the members of these sects,
before the Revolution, at about one-third of the total population of
this enormous country, we are bound to admit that we are here
confronted by a phenomenon of truly elemental power, which
THE JEWISH QUESTION 129
must be of the greatest significance, not only from the religious,
but also from the socio-political point of view. For these ration-
alistic-chiliastic (millennium) notions of the Russian sects . . .
soon forced their way into the higher strata of the Russian
intelligentsia, and even into the world of ideas of the politicians.
. . . Linking up these half-mystical notions with the modern
principles of Marxist materialism, for it was only by the amalga­
mation that the soil was prepared for the Bolshevik revolution.”
In the same way, and with the same effect, de­
moralising, de-Christianising, and Judaising, we see a
swarm of neo-gnostic, cabalistic, mystic and Illumine
sects invading all nations of the Western world, poisoning
their mentality from a religious and socio-political point
of view, infecting them with pantheism, rationalism,
socialism, and communism, preparing the way for
domination by this same secret power working behind
Bolshevism.
English-speaking peoples are wholly uninformed
about the differences of character between the various
sections of the more than fifteen millions of Jews dis­
persed over the earth. Those varied sections of Jewry
are, nevertheless, capable of bringing into world move­
ments a marvellous solidarity of racial influence, exer­
cised by means of important political positions held in
all countries, and by a far-flung power over the Press
and other means of publicity. But it is quite impossible
for the British public to understand the movements of
Bolshevism and World Revolution, owing to the pre­
valent ignorance of the dominant part played by revolu­
tionary Jews in all countries. As Thackeray has ex­
pressed it:
“ Sow a thought and reap an action; sow an action and
reap a habit; sow a habit and reap character; sow character and
reap destiny.”
Thus are revolutions sown and reaped; so also would
revolutions be frustrated and brought to naught but for
the sinister power which everywhere to-day controls the
Press and Publishers.
As far back as 29 June, 1789, Arthur Young, in his
9
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
130
Travels in France and Italy, writes of this secret Press
control:
” Will posterity believe that, while the Press has swarmed
with inflammatory productions that tend to prove the blessing of
theoretical confusion and speculative licentiousness, not one writer
of talent has been employed to refute and confound the fashion­
able doctrines, nor the least care taken to disseminate works of
another complexion.”
Further, in Les Victoires dTsrael, Roger Lambelin wrote
of this same evil:
“ What of the big newspapers of all countries, controlled
directly or influenced indirectly by the great Jewish capitalists,
through intermediaries, editors, information agencies, or publicity!
Try to advertise in the big Press, or even in so-called national
journals of Paris, London, New York, Vienna or Rome, a publica­
tion which clearly shows the action of Israel and its imperialism,
and you will see what kind of welcome it will receive.”
As an example, the “ Anti-Defamation League, Chicago,”
13 December, 1933, wrote to publishers of Anglo-Jewish
periodicals, concerning a book antagonistic to Jewish
interests—The Conquest of a Continent by Madison
Grant:
“ We are interested in stifling the sale of this book. We
believe that this can be best accomplished by refusing to be stam­
peded into giving it publicity. . . . The less discussion there
is concerning it the more sales resistance will be created.
“ We therefore appeal to you to refrain from comment on
this book. . . . It is our conviction that a general compliance
with this request will sound the warning to other publishing
houses against engaging in this type of venture. (Signed)
Richard E. Gutstadt, Director
Speaking of one of his own books Leon de Poncins
relates how an American offered to get it translated and
published, but advised as follows by her solicitor, nego­
tiations were stopped:
“ In my opinion, according to the law of defamation pre­
valent in this country (U.S.A.), you cannot in any way partici-
THE JEWISH QUESTION I3 I
pate in the publication of the Forces Se&htes de la Revolution
by de Poncins, without incurring grave legal responsibility with
risk of damages. . . . The personalities and associations criticised
are so powerful in this country that very costly lawsuits would
certainly result from the publication of the book.”
Another aspect of this formidable Jewish question
is to be seen in Algeria in its relations to the indigenous
Arab.
In Le Peril Juif, Charles Hagel places before his
readers what he considers as the true position of the
Algerian Jew and Arab. He writes:
“ We look at it objectively with documents and proofs in
hand, giving conclusions authorised by fifty years of an attentive
life, lived with open eyes in this North Africa, which is, indeed,
the most marvellous laboratory and the best ground on which to
follow the evolution of the Jew. . . . We live in France under
the law of a taboo; that is, of the Jew. . . . Who will say I
exaggerate . . . in this Algeria where there is no longer a single
journal in which the word Jew can be written with a capital J.
. . . Atheist in the religion of others, international in the country
of others, revolutionaries in the society of others, but prodigiously
jealous and fiercely conservative in what is their own, their
originality, spirit and race, such during half a century have the
Jews revealed themselves to my attentive eyes. . . . It is not so
much through himself and his deleterious action that the Jew is
dangerous, it is by the example he gives, the contagion he
exercises, and the spirit he teaches to the unchained masses de­
prived of direction and too much inclined to imitate. . . . Our
anti-Semitism, therefore, is not of violence, disorder or recrimina­
tion, but of clairvoyance, of methodical protection; our anti-
Semitism is of the State, regulations, and laws.”
In 1830, when Charles X became Regent of Algeria,
the Jews lived in special quarters, and were permitted
well-defined occupations, and until then formed a group
completely isolated and strictly supervised by the Mussul­
mans, who, when necessary, exercised with energy ven­
geance and the right of reprisals. About 30,000 in
number, divided into communities, the Jews formed a
nation, with its chiefs, and authorised cult, council, order,
laws, jurisdiction more Judaico, and its rights; but above
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
132
all its charges and duties with regard to its Mussulman
master having no right to carry arms, or a light at night
in the streets, wearing black robes distinctively marked,
forbidden entry into certain towns or to pass in front of
Mosques or approach wells, and could not be called as a
witness. They had no real status, and could not possess
property.
In the Mussulman they were up against a primitive
man who had no fear of death, a fierce and formidable
warrior whose life was rudimentary and poor, but whose
force in former times created Empires. From 1830 to
1870 the Jews were judicially and administratively
assimilated before being legally and politically incor­
porated. Covered by French authority and defended by
French soldiers, they gave themselves up to their national
industry of usury. The Jew was the tempter who
brought to the Mussulman, this impulsive, improvident
man eager for pleasure, the money to satisfy his passions
and pleasures.
In 1848 the Jew Cremieux, member of the Pro­
visional Government of France, Minister of Justice, and
later President of L’Alliance-israelite-universelle, pre­
pared a decree and tried to accelerate the civil, political,
and administrative incorporation of the Jew of Algeria,
but the coup d'etat of 1851 stopped him. Nevertheless,
the Jews rapidly prospered, and in 1861 a magistrate
declared: “ That the Israelites possess a great part of the
properties, that the fortunes of the Arabs pass into their
hands, and that in the town of Algiers alone one could
value their landed worth at more than 12,000,000 francs.”
Taking advantage of distracted and despairing France
after its defeat by the Germans in 1870, the Cremieux
decree for Algerian Jews was voted by an overwhelming
majority and without debate.
The Jews of Algeria became French citizens, and all
that France gained was the hatred of her Arab subjects,
the only element of value upon which she could count for
populating and economically developing the colony. The
Jews placed in superiority over them! The Arabs could
not accept the insult! Towns, villages, farms were
THE JEWISH QUESTION 133
pillaged, nationals’ throats cut, and establishments were
ruined. But the Jews did not appreciate the required
conscription! The Arab chief Mokrani was killed, and
the others laid down their arms. The Kabulia lost its
autonomy, and the insurgents had to pay 32,000,000
francs and 500,000 hectares of their land was confis­
cated. From time to time other riots and pillages took
place, and that of 1898, more severe than the others, was
rigorously suppressed by the Jew-dominated France.
“ In a general way, if one cannot attribute to the Jew the
whole responsibility of the situation, economic, political, and
social, by which Algeria is being strangled, it is no exaggeration
to recognise him as morally guilty, for the great part of his role
here, still more than elsewhere, has consisted in corrupting, de­
grading, and disintegrating.”
In 1934 the author puts the number of Jews at
120,000 to 150,000 and the Arabs at 6,000,000, of whom
three-quarters are permanently underfed from earliest
years.
“ Reduced to its own resources since France . . . gave it finan­
cial^autonomy and this Colonial Parliament, at first consultative
and then deliberative, of the Financial Delegations . . . Algeria is
incapable of assuring by its own resources the crushing expense
of the first establishment of administration and upkeep which falls
upon it. The economic equipment is too heavy because of the
immensity of its territory and the insignificance of its population.
. . . At present the fellah has no longer anything but his dried
skin stretched upon his bones, and he must pay the contracts, the
banks, and above all the Jew.”
In Algeria the Jew has powerfully contributed to
the disorder of the public mind. Demoralised by him,
a quarter of the citizens in large towns openly trade
“ their rights,” selling their vote for from 20 to 500
francs or more. The lists are cooked: “ At each election
. . . the postal service returns to the Mayors thousands
of electors’ cards marked unknown; gone, no address;
dead.” The Jews “ exercise in Algerian economy a sub­
mergence of which it can be affirmed that it will destroy
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
all the elite, eliminate all competition, and place at the
discretion of this ethnical group, unassimilable and
eternally a stranger, the direction of all the affairs of
this country.”
We have Wickham Steed, in his book The Hapsburg
Monarchy, quoting a letter from a half-Jew writing in
1905 of Hungary:
“ There is a Jewish question, and this terrible race means,
not only to master one of the greatest warrior nations in the world,
but it means, and is consciously striving to enter the lists against
the other great race of the north (Russians), the only one that
has hitherto stood between it and its goal of world power. Am
I wrong? Tell me. For already England and France are, if
not exactly dominated by Jews, very nearly so, while the United
States, by the hands of those whose grip they are ignorant of,
are slowly but surely yielding to that international and insidious
hegemony. Remember that I am half a Jew by blood, but that in
all I have power to be, I am not.”
As we know, Hungary was, in 1918, fast in the
grip of Bela Kuhn and other red Jews, all tools of the
Bolshevik Government. In An Outlaw’s Diary, Cecile
de Tormay, Hungarian patriot and writer, depicts pre­
paratory conditions:
" Then Karolyi came and prepared the way for Bolshevism
in the education of Hungary’s younger generation. The mass
appointment of Jewish Masonic professors and teachers; the
Bolshevik reform of school books; the destruction of the souls of
the children; the degradation of parental authority; the systematic
destruction of moral and patriotic principles; the revelation of
sexual matters; all these were the work of Karolyi’s Government.”
Further, in explanation of the role played by Judaeo-
Masonry in Hungary, we take the following documented
information from Leon de Poncin’s book La Dictature
des Puissances Occultes. The history of this Masonry
in Hungary is of special interest, because after the fall
of the Bela Kuhn Bolshevik revolution, the Government
of Hungary dissolved the Masonic Lodges, seized and
published their archives, and these clearly showed the
134
THE JEWISH QUESTION 135
connection of the Jew-dominated Masonry with the
revolutionary movement of 1918. He reproduces an
open letter on this subject sent by the Deputy Julius
Gombos (Prime Minister of Hungary) to Comte Paul
Teleki, President of the Hungarian Council, in which
we read:
“ The Royal Government of Hungary has, as the whole world
knows, dissolved Hungarian Freemasonry because some of the
members of this organisation have taken part in the preparation
of the October revolution and the work of systematic destruction
which has taken place against the interests of the people and State
of Hungary. There were, according to the investigators, among
these people men who, in this country, were representatives or
agents of Jewish tendencies having in view universal domination,
and who have dreamed in the silence of secrecy to lull to sleep
national sentiment so as to make an anti-national doctrine triumph,
which is foreign to us but dear to them. . . . Although the
decision on the fate of Hungarian Masonry is the business of the
Interior order, in my opinion, Your Excellency would render a
great service to the country by enlightening the foreigner on this
question, and another, connected with it, the Jewish question, so
that the foreigner does not form erroneous ideas on the measures
taken in view of the defence of the religion and morality of the
people and nation/’
As to Judaism in Soviet Russia to-day we would
quote L ’Universe-israelite, 7-14 September, 1934, which
writes:
“ In the U.S.S.R. Judaism and Christianity have been buried
together. They sleep in the common grave reserved for all re­
ligions. The Communists have made no difference between cults.
. . . Their philosophy was scientific materialism, they denied the
value of all religion, thus they struck at Judaism as at all religions.
It is forbidden to give religious instruction to children under
eighteen. At school it is explained to the pupils that they will
betray the revolution if they put foot within the church or
synagogue. With the result that the synagogues are empty. . . .
Zionism is banned. To the Communist Zionism is doubly repre­
hensible, first because they believe it to be in the service of British
Imperialism. . . . Whoever defends the cause of Zionism is
severely punished; Zionists have been imprisoned, exiled, and even
shot. The suppression of Zionism and of religion [continues the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
136
editor] was a great tragedy for the Jewish spirit. . . . The
children, victorious, pursue their object [communism] with the
certainty of having chosen a superior mode of Life.”
Finally, a Jewish correspondent of the Patriot, who
is a close observer of all facts that escape from the
Bolshevik political chaos, remarks:
“ The fact that anti-Semitism was made a criminal offence in
Bolshevia does not prove philo-Semitism; on the contrary, one
might reason logically thus: Jew-hatred is so rampant in the
country that the authorities were compelled to put the offence in
the same category as counter-revolution, which is the most severely
punished crime in Soviet Russia, for otherwise they would be
unable to suppress the tendency.”
He continues:
“ Some years ago a Jewish financier was reproached for
pouring millions of dollars into Soviet Russia. ‘ Have you,’ he
tersely retorted, ‘ ever visualised in your mind what would happen
to our brethren in Russia should—God forbid—the Soviet regime
collapse? the retaliatory measures would be terrible, apart from
the outbursts of the avengeful populace.’ The fact remains that
in Russia anti-Semitism obtains now in the same degree as in
the Czarist days with the sole difference that now it is driven
underground, which aggravates the malady:”
Again the same writer concludes:
“ It is quite evident that the key of the solution of this hoary
problem lies in finding ways how to overcome the obstacles of the
formidable, both numerically and energetically, revolutionary
section of Jewry.”
CHAPTER VII
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY
Gustave Bord, writing in La Franc-magonnerie en
France, 1908, says:
“ Freemasonry stood at the beginning as a defender of natural
religion: belief in the beyond, in the existence of God, and the
immortality of the soul based solely on the ideas of Reason. But
gradually this natural religion was transformed into mere social
morals based on the immortality of matter, and after having
passed through Pantheism it ended in the negation of the
Divinity.”
As we have previously explained, there is a curious book
Long Livers, by Robert Sambers, dedicated to the Grand
Lodge of London, 1722, and referred to by Masonic
historians such as Mackay, Whytehead, Yarker, etc., in
which the author indicates a mysterious Illumination
and equally mysterious hierarchy working through the
higher grades of Masonry, the language used being that
of alchemy and Rose-Croix. It is in this secret illumina­
tion of the higher grades from some unknown source,
common to all theosophical and occult groups, that lies
the canker which stirs up revolutions and aims at the
destruction of Western and Christian civilisation. As
J. Marques-Riviere justly writes in La Trahison
Spirituelle de la F.\ M . \ :
“ One could easily conclude the existence in Freemasonry of
two currents which appear contradictory, and which are merely
complementary—the rationalists and the Illumines, What unites
and binds them together is the ritual. . . . The rationalist poli­
ticians have inspirers: these are the occultists of the lodges. . . .
Freemasonry is the place from whence the diverse sects draw
their elements; it is for them a preparatory school, a filter, a
discipline. The Martinists demand that their members should be
137
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Master Masons. The best recruits of other groups are issues of
Freemasonry . . . inversely the opinions, the dreams, the lucubra­
tions of these pseudo-mystic chapels, of these dens of folly,
penetrate into the great body of Freemasonry through their
members. . . . Theosophy, occultism, Freemasonry, secret sects
or mystico-civilisers have but one common aim: to assure the
liberation of man, to withdraw from him all traditional moral
sense in order to be able to enslave him for the good of the
interests aimed at, which they call freeing him. . . . There exists
a counter-Church, with its scriptures, its dogmas, its priests, and
Freemasonry is one of its visible aspects. This false dogmatism
must be exposed, this pseudo-mysticism which attracts more souls
than is believable, whose dangers are as real as hidden. . . .
This mysticism is indeed the great Masonic Secret, the Supreme
Initiation. . . . It is old as is this old world.”
Russia
At the Congress of Verona, 1822, Prince de Metter-
nich, Prime Minister of Austria, addressed a metnoire
on secret societies to Emperor Alexander of Russia, in
which he said:
“ Dupes of their own disordered imagination, dupes of who­
ever wishes to make use of their mania for their own diverse
purposes, these men [vague mystics] have constantly been as a
nursery of adepts for secret societies . . . these societies are a
malady which eats into the social body in its noblest parts, the
evil has already thrust out deep and extended roots; if Govern­
ments do not take efficacious measures. . . . Europe runs the
risk of succumbing to attacks upon it ceaselessly repeated by these
associations . . . absolute monarchies, constitutional monarchies,
republics, all are threatened by the Levellers.”
Later, Metternich recognised the Jews as one of the
most terrible elements of revolution. A brief sketch of
Masonry in Russia will confirm his opinion. We take
it largely from a book by Georgios Michalof, 1877 (see
Document K, Deschamps, vol. ii).
During the early years of Catherine II’s reign, the
lodges multiplied greatly in Russian high society, and
Saint-Martin, through the Polish Count Grabianka and
the Russian Admiral Pleschischejev, propagated his
1 3 8
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 139
doctrines in the lodges. He spread his ideas by means
of a Societe typographique which published the writings
of Boehme and all French works and translations marked
with the moral religiosity of the sect, and soon the litera­
ture of the country was impregnated with them (an
orientation as with our own pacifists and international­
ists). The soul of the society was Novikof, Grand
Master and Director of Russian Masonry. All talent
was drawn into the net, and Martinist lodges also pene­
trated the Church by means of the high dignitaries, using
it largely as a mask for their political aims and in order
to deceive the Empress.
Catherine at first declared herself Protector of
Masonry, and in 1784 the Imperial Lodge was formed in
Petersburg. However, after the Revolution in 1792,
having found that Novikof, unknown to her, had initiated
the Grand Duke, later Paul I, Novikof was thrown into
the Fortress Schlusselburg and the Princes Leopuchin,
Troubetskoi, and Turgenjef were exiled to their estates;
still Masonry worked in secret. Paul I favoured
Masonry and released Novikof, but in 1797 closed the
lodges and exiled most of the dangerous initiates,
Alexander I, through Bober Counsellor of State and
Grand Master of the Russian Grand Orient, revoked
Paul’s ordinance, and in 1803 was made a Mason. The
first Grand Lodge, Vladimir, was founded in 1811, but
was later replaced by two groups, A sires and Provinciate.
In 1822, fearing the result upon the State of such a
democratic organisation, the lodges were dissolved by
Imperial ukase.
During the campaign against Napoleon, Carbonari
lodges were formed in the Army, which was thus gradu­
ally infected with the ideas of absolute freedom from all
civil and religious authority. It was while the Emperor
was preparing a Constitutional reform that Pestel and
others, with Novikof at the head, founded their Alliance
du saint, the first group being formed in the regiment of
the Guards, 1813. As outside propaganda he organised
the Societe de bien public, divided into four sections:
philanthropic, intellectual and moral civilisation and
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
140
schools, supervision of Tribunals and officials, and
national economy. There was yet another society at
Kiev, 1823, the Slavoniens unis, having relations with
the Societe du sud. Their rites were those of high
Masonry, aiming, with certain independence, to
unite the eight Slav countries, Russia, Poland,
Bohemia, Moravia, Dalmatia, Hungary (?) with Tran­
sylvania, Servia with Moldavia, and Valachia, having
a federal and central town—one of the sects’ early
forms of the United States of Europe! If the conspiracy
had succeeded Pestel would have been Dictator. He
sought to unite with the Poles, but when he disclosed
plans to murder the whole Imperial family and proclaim
a Socialistic republic, Prince Jablonowski recoiled in
horror, and the Poles were allowed to form their own
Government. The rising was dated for 1829, but the
sudden death of Alexander hastened the outburst, and
December 1825 saw the attempt and failure with the
execution of the leaders (1826). In 1857 Alexander II
in vain permitted the opening of the lodges, for Masonry,
it was said, hated both Russia and Austria.
Under Nicholas II Russia was still a prey to
Martinism. Papus and Philippe, the magnetic-healer,
created Martinist lodges, and spread the pernicious doc­
trines, not a little helping to bring trouble upon Court
and nobility. Philippe, writes Sokoloff in his Enquiry,
was introduced to Court by the Jew Manoussevitch
Manouilof, Rasputin’s sinister adviser, who in 1905,
according to Paleologue, instigated the workmen’s
demonstrations and later helped to prepare the Pogroms
of Kiev, Alexandrovsk, and Odessa. As the Jewish
writer Dr. Angelo Rappoport, wrote, 1918: “ There is
not a political organisation in the vast Empire which was
not influenced by the Jews or directed by them. . . .
Plehve was perhaps right when he said that the fight
for political emancipation in Russia and the Jewish
question were practically identical.”
Imperial Russia for the time has been swept away,
still Russian Masonry persists. The American Builder,
June and August 1927, gave an account of four ordinary
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 141
lodges, a Lodge of Perfection, and a Rose-Croix
Chapter then functioning in Paris, in the Russian lan­
guage, and according to former Russian rites, under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of France, and the
Supreme Council, but with complete liberty. The four
ordinary lodges are directed by a committee which repre­
sents the embryo of the future Grand Lodge of Russia.
The Lodge of Perfection works in close relations with
the Rose-Croix Chapter, and there exists, conformable
to the Congress of Lausanne, 1922, a temporary com­
mittee recognised by the Supreme Council of France,
which will subsequently become the Supreme Council of
the Scottish Rite in Russia. The task will consist: “ In
restoring to Russia a normal government and in estab­
lishing ordinary conditions of economic and political
life” (quoted from R .IS .S ., il December, 1927).
Is Masonry, this universal ferment, a fit instrument
to restore normal conditions to an immense Empire
shattered and corrupted by the secret forces of Jewry?
P oland
The following is taken from the Polish Nationalist
review Mysl Narodowa, Nos. 30-33, 1933. The R .IS.S.
reproduces it, taking no responsibility, as throwing light
on the universal Judseo-Masonic work of anti-religious
destruction and domination. We give a short summary.
It was above all during the Great War that Masonry
appeared on Polish territory. In Poland, under the
Russian Empire, there was the Lodge Odrodsenie, dating
from before the War, and among its members were
officials of the Ministry of Public Instruction and pro­
fessors at the Polytechnic Institute and the Free Uni­
versity. Some aimed at Masonic infiltration. Already
there were a number of Jews belonging to the Grand
Orient of France: Litauer, important official in the
Ministry of Foreign affairs; Wasserzug, called
Wasowski, initiated in Paris before the War, where he
published, along with other Masons, the anti-Christian
review Panteon. Returning to Warsaw, he collaborated
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
142
in the review Pravda, then, at the beginning of the War,
in Widnokreci, and during the German occupation in
the journal Glos Stolicy, an organ directed against the
Allied Powers, particularly France and England. After
the declaration of independence he was removed from
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He then resumed col­
laboration with the anti-national and Jewish Press, and
founded L’Agence Polonaise Publiciste, still pursuing
his Masonic propaganda with an eye to the provincial
press. To-day he edits the Warsaw Masonic review
Epolia.
Another member was the Jew Salomon Posner, of
the Grand Orient of France, writer to the Socialist daily
UOuvrier, also President of the Ligue des Droits de
I’Homme in Poland. Now dead, he was one of the most
influential and active ambassadors of Polish Jewry. The
Jew Simon Askenazy, one of the most influential Polish
Masons, secretly controlled all the strings. Another
member was the Jew Leon Chrzanowski, correspondent
of the Courier of Warsaw at Rome, and later at Geneva.
The Provisional Council of State was infested with
Masons. The director of Polish Masonry, belonging to
the Grand Orient of France, was the Jew Jan Finhelhaus,
for long living in Paris as “ Jean Finot,” where he
directed the Revue des Revues. He transmitted informa­
tion to the Jewish families Natanson and Kempner at
Warsaw. The former were mostly financiers and indus­
trialists with considerable social influence. The latter
were journalists, and ran La Gazette Nouvelle, organ of
the Radicals and Socialists. These Jews played a great
role during the German occupation, and one of them,
under the pseudonym A. Kerr, was closely connected
with journalistic and literary circles in Berlin. During
the War Russian Masonry exercised a certain influence
in Poland. The Polish Masons were instructed by the
Jew Winawer, member of the Constitutional Democratic
Party and Minister in the Kerenski Government. Many
of the Polish young men in Russia, subject to Radical
and Socialist centres, returned to Poland instructed
in Masonic doctrines, and became affiliated to lodges in
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 143
Poland. Most officials of the Provisional Council of State
were nominated by pressure from German, French, and
Russian Masons. Masons dominated the League of the
Partisans of the Polish State (L.P.P.).
After the death of the Jews Finhelhaus and
Kempner, a re-grouping of the lodges took place. In
1920 Italian Masonry instigated the founding of the
Grand Lodge of Poland, an affiliation of the lodge
“ Polonia ” at Rome. The Union of Philaretes, founded
in 1909, was intensely active in independent Poland.
Apparently harmless, it had occult directors, and the
initiates were Freemasons of a particular rite, who
invaded all administrations. To-day it is consolidated
and strong, and the Jews in it, although discreet, are
influential.
In collaboration with it is the Polish Association of
Libres-Penseurs, founded in 1921 by four Jews, and
directed by Masonry. In relation with that, again, was
the Community of Productivity, devoted to Bolshevik
propaganda, and founded by the Jew Lubecki in 1922.
All members are Jews. They renounce all religion,
declare war on nationalism and prejudices against Jews,
and object to mixed marriages—Jews and Aryans. The
Polish Union of professional men of letters is directed
by the Jew-Mason Jules Kaden-Bandrowski. Masonry
in particular acts upon the women through the Associa­
tion of Women’s Civic Work. One of its prime movers
is Mme Kipa, a Jewess and wife of the Grand Secretary
of the Grand Lodge of Poland. Finally, the “ sexual
democracy,” which aims at the destruction of religion
and family, is led by a Jewish writer supported by Jews
and Masonic organisations.
H u n g a r y
According to Leon de Poncins in La Franc-magon-
nerie, 1934, after the Bolshevik revolution of Bela Kuhn
in Hungary, the Government ordered the Masonic
archives to be seized and published, thus showing the
flagrant connection of Masonry with the revolutionary
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
movement. In a resume of the secret papers found in
the lodges of Budapest we find:
“ The book on Hungarian Freemasonry which has just been
published by the Union des Societes chretiennes et nationales de
Hongrie, is divided into three parts: (1) The crimes of Free­
masonry, by Adorjan Barcsay, contains a great quantity of docu­
ments seized when the Lodges were dissolved in 1922. (2)
Written by Joseph Palatinus, is called, The Secrets of a Provincial
Lodge, and exposes the secret work of Masonic destruction which
led Hungary to the revolution of October, 1918, and to Com­
munism in 1919. (3) Contains the list of members of the
Masonic Lodges in Hungary, which proves to us that 90 per cent,
of the Hungarian Masons were Jews. . . ”
Again :
“ The author quotes on this subject a very characteristic
preface at the beginning of a book, La Vote des Juifs, by
Professor Pierre Agoston (one of the commissars of the people
who shared the power with Bela Kuhn and whom the Hungarian
Tribunal condemned to death in December last). In it he says,
among other things: To write the history of the Jews in Hun­
gary is to write the history of the Hungarian Freemasonic move­
ment. . .
“ With regard to their role in the Communist revolution in
Hungary, this book shows that the Freemasons have above all
worked through the Press. With patient and persistent labour
they have succeeded in gaining over most of the Press organs by
the help of which they have sought to diminish the Magyar
national sentiment. The daily Vilag is very specially responsible
for the weakening of discipline in the Hungarian Army; thousands
of copies were distributed in the trenches. . . . Kelet, official
journal of the Hungarian Masons, 14 December, 1910, stated:
*We must gain over the professors and school-masters so as to
reach through them the soul of youth and prepare laic teaching.
The teachers must be the forerunners of the most advanced
ideas.'"
144
Notwithstanding these and other documented facts,
the Jewish Chronicle, 20 July, 1934, in writing of “ The
Freemasons ” by the Jew Eugen Lennhof, who founded
in Austria La Ligus Internationale des F.\ M .\, informs
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 145
its readers that inquirers will scan Lennhof’s vivid pages
in vain for the confirmation of the old absurdity about
the revolutionary alliance between Jews and Freemasons.
It is not, however, surprising, that Lennhof, himself an
International Jew and Freemason, should fight shy of
these and many other equally authenticated facts about
this Jew-Masonic Alliance. He would whitewash both
Jewry and Judaeo-Masonry!
Germany
The great fact of the year 1930 was the unexpected
triumph of the partisans of Hitler at the September
elections. A formidable nationalism suddenly appeared,
Prussian and Lutheran, in certain lodges—Grande Loge
Nationale des Franc-Magons d’Allemagne; Grande Loge
M&re Aux Trots Globes; Grande Loge Royal York ‘A
VAmitie.* This Prussian Masonry had separated from
Universal Masonry in 1924, and, according to Oswald
Wirth, had renounced the ideal of the Anderson Consti­
tution to adopt that of uncompromising Germanism.
The A.M.I. declared it to be irregular. In 1930 a new
obedience was formed, the Grande Loge Symbolique
d’Allemagne, grouping together eight lodges, dependents
of the Supreme Scottish Council of Germany. Their
tendencies were pacifist; adopting Anderson’s formula
in its widest sense they admitted adherents of all reli­
gions, including Jews. There were also the humanitarian
lodges—the four Grand Lodges of Bayreuth, Darmstadt,
Frankfort, and Hamburg. Lastly, the Federation Au
Soleil Levant, considered suspect and ardently pacifist. It
must be recognised that the aims of Prussian Masonry
in 1924 have been realised; it has now transformed the
lodges into Orders of Chivalry, and all other lodges have
been suppressed. We have, they said, transformed the
Grande Loge Mere Nationale Aux Trots Globes, founded
by Frederick the Great in 1740, into the National Chris­
tian Order of Frederick the Great.
It has broken all existing links with other Masonry;
for the members, the obligation is of Germanic racist
10
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
I46
origin, the secret concerning the ceremony is suppressed,
the words “ Freemason ” and “ Lodge ” have disap­
peared, and the constitution is entirely new. The same
principles are applied to the other two lodges. Le
Grande Loge des Franc-Magons d’Allemagne will in
future be called The German Christian Order of the
Templars', the name of the third had not been fixed
(July 1933). Their ideal is German-Christianity, having
much in common with the old Aryan cult of their
ancestors—the cult of Odin! The symbols of the Order
are the Light and the Cross; they profess an ideal of
pure Germanic race nationality, whose chosen symbols
are the Hammer of Thor and the Sword of the Knight.
It is now said that Masonry is entirely suppressed in
Germany.
The Hammer of Thor, or Hermetic Cross, is the bolt
of whirling flame, a symbol of dynamic strength repre­
senting the Fire of the universal generating force
cleaving its way through the blackness of matter. In
Illuminism, reversed, it is a symbol of that death that
leads to Initiation or Illuminism. Further, Frederick
the Great was a close friend of Voltaire, who was one
of the Encyclopaedists and president of the atheistic and
revolutionary Hotel d’Holbach, precursor of the French
Revolution of 1789.
Spain
Deschamps in Les Societes Secretes et La Societe,
1881, writes of Spain: “ The revolutions which since
1812 have succeeded each other in this country have been
caused for the most part by the rivalries of the different
Masonic factions which always unite in order to fight
Christian social order.”
A letter, 15 January, 1728, shows that Spanish
Masonry began by a delegation from the English Grand
Master; the lodge was called Matritense. The introduc­
tion of the Scottish Rite in Spain was due to Comte de
Tilly, authorised by his relative, Comte de Grasse-Tilly,
who shortly before had introduced the regularised rite
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 1 4 7
from Charleston into France. This rite was a simple
evolution of philosophical Masonry. Seville was the first
centre, and in 1808 Tilly, along with the Liberal members
of the Government, took part in its Supreme Council.
This Scottish rite, introducing the high grades, was more
democratic, whilst Masonry of the three grades was,
under Montijo, the defender of aristocracy and abso­
lutism. Later the two Masonries united, and a Chamber
of Rites was created under Montijo’s direction (Monde
Magonnique, June 1875).
One of the first lodges, under the Grand Lodge of
England, was formed at Madrid, 1731, and, when
Charles III came from Naples to the Throne of Spain,
among his courtiers were several Masons; very soon the
lodge at Madrid began to exercise serious influence over
the Government. In 1766, through Count Aranda, the
Jesuits were driven from Spain and Spanish possessions;
Jansenist, Masonic, Encyclopaedist, and even Illumine
doctrines infected Episcopal seats, chapters, and univer­
sities, and under Charles IV the sect unsuccessfully
planned to establish the Jews in Spain.
During Napoleon’s invasion French officers and
officials formed the Afrangesados, lodges favourable to
French rule. But there were also purely Spanish lodges
which sought to realise their plans through the Con­
stituent Cortes of Cadiz, from which nobility and clergy
were excluded. Those who represented the provinces
occupied by the French, Spaniards originally from these
provinces, but settled in Cadiz, were called suppleants.
From 1753 there was a lodge in Cadiz of 500 affiliates,
wealthy and of good position, most of the suppleants
belonged to it, and it and its adepts formed the majority
of the Cortes; a Liberal Press dominated the Assembly
and the command of the Army in favour of Masonry.
The Catholic and Royalist minority were known as Ser-
viles, and the majority took the name of Liberals, and
later Jacobinos. They promulgated a Constitution,
19 March, 1812, maintaining Monarchy as a form, de­
claring the sovereignty of the people, but the real power
lay with the Cortes. When Ferdinand VII returned
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
148
after Napoleon’s fall, influenced by popular sentiment, he
repudiated this Constitution, and later exercised personal
despotism.
In 1814 Masonry was interdicted, but openly con­
tinued its propaganda. Many Spanish prisoners in
France became affiliates, 5*000 officers, and a greater
number of subordinates, who thus gave a powerful im­
petus to Liberal projects, plotted in secret the annihila­
tion of existing political and religious institutions. A
Grand Lodge was established in Granada with Montijo
as Grand Master, and many lodges were formed in the
Army; this lodge became so active that finally some were
arrested, others fled, and Montijo was ordered to Madrid,
June 1817; but the Grand Lodge followed him, and there
continued its intrigues. According to Thomas Frost,
the historian, all moderate constitutionalists were Free­
masons, and made use of Masonic organisation to con­
sult secretly on the movement which ended in the revolu­
tion of 1820. The extreme party, the Communeros,
formed a similar organisation, Confederation, which was
divided into communes, each of which consisted of un­
limited local groups or tours. Their receptions, pass­
word, and oath were copied from Masonry: absolute
secrecy, obedience, and submission to vengeance if un­
faithful as with the Carbonari. It had only one grade,
offices were elective, and the Supreme Assembly was over
all. They were closely linked to the Jew-dominated
Haute-Vente of Paris; the federalistes were their suc­
cessors.
On 29 March, 1830, the Salic Law was abolished,
and Isabella became heir to the throne in place of the
King’s brother, Don Carlos; when Ferdinand died, Free­
masons and Liberals already held all civil and military
positions. -The lodges continued their intrigues through­
out the Regency and the reign of Isabella, and took active
part in the progressivist movement of 1854. The revo­
lution of 1868 was made by Masonry in opposition to
Isabella, who in the end was deposed and fled to France.
Further intrigues led to the reign of Amadeo, and later
a republic; but recognising that Spain was not ready for
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 149
a republic, the Grand Chiefs decided on a Constitutional
Monarchy—always assuring revolutionary propaganda
—and to this end supported young Alphonse XII, 1874.
The lodges continued to increase, and in 1881 the Grand
Lodge of Spain had 154 lodges; the Grand Orient of
Spain had 162, plus 30 chapters; the Grand Orient
Lusitanien had 40 under its jurisdiction, and all three
are now united as obedience-members of the Association
Magonnique Internationale (A.M.I., 1933). Thus
Nationalism has become Internationalism (Deschamps
and Claudio Jannet)!
Much has been written on the present Spanish
Judaeo-Masonic manifestation—the Revolution and Re­
public of 1931—and the following speech, made by
Mateo Barroso, Grand Chancellor of the Supreme
Council of Spain at the Convent of the Grand Lodge of
France, 1931, shows the power that was behind the new
regime:
“ I bring you the cordial and fraternal greetings of the
Supreme Council of Spain. . . . We have now the Republic.
We have . . . six Mason Ministers, about twenty Mason high
officials, and more than 120 Mason deputies in the Constituent
Chamber. You therefore see that this weak Masonry has suc­
ceeded in creating a democratic and republican conscience. . . .
Spanish Masonry works for Universal Peace, it associates itself
with the task which the League of Nations has taken up. . . .
It is the Masons who must create this universal conscience ”
(quoted by R.I.S.S., 15 December, 1932).
Again, in the Boletin oficial y Revisto masonica del
Supremo Consejo del Grado 33, June 1931, we read:
“ The Republic is our patrimony. . . . It can be called the
perfect image modelled by the gentle hands of our doctrines and
principles. It will be impossible to realise another example of a
political revolution more perfectly Masonic than the Spanish
Revolution. . . .”
Further, the Grand Lodge of Spain, in its Bulletin,
thus addressed the new Republic:
“ With the eclipse, in the setting, of the splendour of Royalty,
came to an end the last personal power of Majesty. . . . As
150 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Spaniards and Freemasons, who see lawfully erected the Liberal
structure of a new State engendered by the immortal principles
which shine in the Orient, we can but consider ourselves satisfied.
. . . To Freemasons who compose the Provisional Government,
to the higher personnel, also composed in a majority of Free­
masons, go out our aspirations. May they be loyal guardians of
the moral treasures confided to them and through the Republic
may they accomplish the destiny of Spain ” (quoted in R.I.S.S.,
8 November, 1931).
Portugal
According to the R.I.S.S., 24 May, 1931, Fr. Borges
Grainha writes, in his Histoire de la Magonnerie en
Portugal, Lisbon, 1912:
“ Oiance brought into my hands a number of books, until
then unknown to me, in which is shown the life of Masonry in
Portugal from the middle of the eighteenth century. In examin­
ing these books I have noticed that almost all the most noted men
in religious, political, and intellectual revolutions of our country,
during the last two centuries, were affiliated to Masonry. . . .
Several illustrious Portuguese were also Masons, and some even
Grand Masters, in the conspiracies and revolutions of 1817, 1820,
1833, 1836, 1842, 1846, 1851, 1868, 1891, and in 1910 almost all
the principal personages who took part had been initiated in
Masonic lodges. . . . At the end of these researches I was con­
vinced that the history of Masonry in Portugal was absolutely
linked with the history of the country.”
From the resume given, and other sources—one, Docu­
ment G, by F. Chabirand in the Chaine d’Union, 1872-
73—quoted by Deschamp and Claudio Jannet, we have
drawn many of the following facts.
Masonry in Portugal goes back to 1735 under Don
Joaos V, and since then various foreigners, French,
Swiss, Dutch, and English, organised the first lodges.
Under the Government of the Marquis de Pombal,
Masonry developed in intellectual circles and the Army.
He had been diplomat in London and Vienna, and re­
turned penetrated by the philosophy then in vogue in
Europe, and initiated the regime of “ enlightened
despotism ” which was opposed to the Church and had
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 151
strong “ equality ” tendencies; he is also said to have
established the first regular lodge in Lisbon. There were
certainly Masons among those appointed by him to found
the University of Coimbre in 1772, and by 1796 it was
permeated with Liberal ideas, becoming in time a recog­
nised and immense instrument for the spread throughout
Portugal of the philosophy of Voltaire and Rousseau.
The French Revolution was let loose in Europe, but
in Portugal the able director, Pina Manique, for some
years kept it in check. It was about 1804 that the first
Portuguese Grand Lodge was constituted. The invasions
of Napoleon profoundly modified the situation to the
profit of Masonry, and the officers of the Portuguese
Legion in the armies of Napoleon returned in 1814
largely masonised, and secret societies developed and
spread. Just as Halperine-Kaminsky tells us, it was
during the march through Europe after the retreat of
Napoleon’s army that the Russian officers became imbued
with French revolutionary and Liberal ideas, and on their
return a secret society was formed in 1816, out of which
Paul Pestel finally evolved the Society of the South,
advocating the abolition of autocracy and the establish­
ment of a republic. In Portugal at this time F.\ Freire
Gomez d’Andrade was Grand Master of the Grand
Orient Lusitanien, and had commanded a division of the
French Army during the Russian campaign. He, too,
became a mover in revolutionary conspiracies, and when
the first was discovered in 1817, like Pestel later in 1826,
he and others ended their lives on the scaffold. The
lodges then closed until about 1824, when Liberal tenden­
cies penetrated the Cortes; along with their Spanish
comrades of Cadiz, the Portuguese Masons proposed to
proclaim the constitution of an “ Iberian Federal Re­
public,” which has ever since remained their secret plan.
In 1834 the Mason Don Pedro IV gave Portugal a
new and Liberal constitution, and Freemasonry played a
great role in the revolution, lasting some years, which
led up to this change. Masonry became powerful, and
the desire to use it as a political instrument ended in the
formation of as many Orients as there were political
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
IS2
parties. In 1840 there were nine authorities, but the
Grand Orient Lusitanien in 1859 united most of these
under its obedience. Later, in 1863, it was officially
recognised by the Grand Orient of France, and finally,
10 August, 1869, it united all Portuguese Masonic groups
under the name Grand Orient Lusitanien Uni., with the
Comte de Paraty as Grand Master. In 1870 it had
under its obedience fifty-six lodges, twenty being in
Spain. Since then there has been much Masonic activity
culminating in the revolution of 1910, which was planned
by the more advanced lodges, such as the “ Gremio
Mortugua,” out of which came the Carbonarios, who
decreed the assassination of King Carlos and his elder
son, and prepared the Republican Revolution.
According to The Times, 28 August, 1931, there
have been sixteen revolutions and forty Ministerial
changes in Portugal between 1910 and 1926, and
although General Carmona’s rule has been called a
“ dictatorship without a dictator,” an unsuccessful
attempt to depose him was made in 1931. In the same
year a revolt broke out, and was suppressed, in Madeira,
Portuguese Guinea, and the Azores, and, The Times
continued: “ It is currently stated that the agitation was
fomented by Portuguese exiles in Paris, and particularly
by some preceding chiefs of the Grand Orient of
Portugal.”
“ The Portuguese revolution of 1910,” says Dr.
Fredrich Wichtl, “ was brought about by certain leading
Jewish families . . . all related to each other, they were all
united by the tie of Freemasonry and . . . L’Alliance-
israelite-universelle.” (Weltfreimauerei, Welt Revolts
tion, Welt Republic.)
Leon de Poncins, after visiting Portugal, where he
interviewed several leading Government officials there,
wrote an account of “ New ” Portugal for the French
journal Le Jour, extracts from which appeared in the
Patriot, 11-18 July, 1935. He was received by M. Jose
Cabral, instigator of “ the law against Freemasonry and
secret societies, passed unanimously by the National
Assembly. . . .” In a few brief sentences M. Cabral
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 153
summed up the motives which led to the passing of the
law against Freemasonry:
“ The new State is an authoritative State guided and limited
by the principles of Christian justice, conformable to the historical
and spiritual traditions of the country. The openly anti-religious
and anti-Christian character of Freemasonry was, therefore,
contrary to the spiritual and moral bases of the new State. . . .
It subjects its initiates to a rigid discipline, the aims and interests
of which are opposed to those of the nation. The State, charged
with the direction and well-being of the country, constantly struck
up against mysterious obstacles difficult to surmount, which
hindered the progress of national affairs. Freemasonry thus
formed a State within a State, a strong occult State behind the
feeble apparent State, which reduced the latter to a purely super­
ficial role. The new Portuguese State is a strong State which
cannot admit a subterranean authority contrary to its own. The
hierarchic complexity of Freemasonry indicates that Freemasonry
has hidden and complicated plans, aiming at international ends
which override those of the National State. Freemasonry thus
leads to a great international diplomatic occult action directed
probably by a foreign head. Such a submission to foreign inter­
national direction is contrary to the patriotic sentiment of the
country. Apart from that, the secret which Freemasonry imposes
so rigorously upon its adepts allows it to be presumed that what
they hide so well is neither insignificant nor beneficial. . . .”
A.M.I.
The Association magonnique international, or
A.M.I., is neither rite nor obedience, but a confederation
formed in an attempt to bring about international unity
of all Masonic powers throughout the world, while,
nominally, preserving to each full independence. They
held, according to the French Mason Albert Lantoine,
that “ the ancient chain must be soldered again, which, in
making the Order more powerful, would allow it to in­
fluence, in a humanitarian [.sic] sense, the politics of
rulers.”
The first meeting was held in Geneva, 23 October,
1921, and united some eleven obedience-members, in­
cluding the Grand Lodge of New York; the latter, how-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
154
ever, resigned because of the recognition by the A.M.I.
of the German Lodge “Au Soleil Levant,” which latter
was proved irregular, and removed. For some years
little advance was made, but in 1932 it had increased in
importance, through membership and quality of its
adherents as well as through the influence it wielded. At
the end of 1930 it grouped together thirty active obedi­
ence-members as follows:
Grand Lodge of Vienna.
Grand Orient of Belgium.
Grand Lodge of Bulgaria.
Grand Lodge of Spain.
Grand Orient of Spain.
Grand Orient of France.
Grand Lodge of Luxembourg.
Grand Orient of Greece.
Grand Lodge of Polarstjemen.
Grand Lodge of Poland.
Grand Orient United Lusitanean of Portugal.
Gravid Lodge “ Alpina ” Switzerland.
Grand Lodge National of Tchecoslovak.
Grand Orient of Turkey.
Grand Orient of Brazil.
Grand Lodge of France.
Grand Lodge of Yugoslavia.
Grand Lodge of Panama.
Grand Lodge of Porto Rico.
Grand Lodge Cuscatian San Salvador.
Grand Lodge La Oriental-Peninsular.
Grand Lodge of Chili.
Grand Lodge of Columbia (Baranquilla).
Grand Lodge of the Equator.
Grand Lodge of Paraguay.
Grand Lodge of Venezuela.
Grand Lodge of Haiti.
Grand Lodge of Peru.
Grand Lodge of the Isle of Cuba.
Grand Lodge del Pacifico.
Its president in 1931 was F.\ Raoul Engel, Supreme
Grand Master of the Grand Orient of Belgium. The
Grand Chancellor was F.\ John Mossaz (Switzerland),
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 155
who directed it, assisted by an Executive Committee of
delegates, which appeared to be a kind of Parliament.
Also there was a Consultative Committee composed of a
few influential delegates, who apparently prepared de­
cisions and, in fact, exercised authority. . For 1930-32
these were: Charles Magnette, Honorary Grand Master,
Belgium; Bernard Wellhoff, former Grand Master,
Grand Lodge of France; Arthur Groussier, former
President of the Council of the Order, Grand Orient of
France; Arthur Mille, of the Council of the Order, Grand
Orient of France; and Fritz Brandenberg, former Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge “ Alpina,” Switzerland.
As will be seen, the A.M.I. has spread, above all, in
the Latin countries, and includes among its obedience-
members the great majority of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rites, but does not include any English or North
American Grand Lodge. Under the influence of the
A.M.I., the Grand Orient of France in 1930 annulled
the conventions which bound it to the Grand Lodge of
France and the mixed International obedience, Le Droit
Humain, preferring, as it said, to realise unity under the
auspices of the A.M.I., in which the Grand Orient of
Paris now plays a directing role (R .I.SS., 20 September,
1 9 3 1 )-
In 1877 the Grand Orient of France suppressed
from its regulations the name of “ The Grand Architect
of the Universe ” and the belief in the immortality of the
soul. Because of this the Grand Lodge of England,
along with others, broke off relations with it, and has
never since renewed them. In 1929 the Grand Lodge of
England codified eight points as being necessary for
recognition by it of any other lodge, among which were:
(2) That a belief in the Grand Architect of the Universe
and His revealed will is an essential condition for the
admission of candidates. (7) That religious and poli­
tical discussions are rigorously prohibited in the Lodges
(cf. An. Mag. Uni., 1930).
Continental Masonry, on the contrary, is to a great
extent anti-religious, political, and largely dominated,
directly or indirectly, by Jews, and there are many proofs
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
156
to show that this Judaeo-Masonic power has always been,
and still is, in the name of Humanity, the secret insidious
cause of all revolutionary movements.
The following- information concerning- the A.M.I.
was first published by Leon de Poncins in the Mercure
de France, 15 August, 1931, and later in La F .*. M . *
1934:
“ In 1921 the Association magonnique Internationale or
A.M.I. was formed at Bale; its aim is to reinforce the links of
International Masonic solidarity. Its reviews give news of Uni­
versal Masonry, and its principal books are printed in French,
German, and English. The Grand Orient of Paris plays a direct­
ing role. . . . It edits a public review, La Paix, and another
secret, Les Annates magonniques universelles, both published at
20 rue Laugier, Paris, under the direction of the Masonic writer
and Jew, Edouard Plantagenet. La Paix has among its corre­
spondents, Ramsay MacDonald, Ed. Benes . . . Henri Barbusse,
and known Masonic writers such as Andre Lebey of the Grand
Orient, and Albert Lantoine of the Grand Lodge. . . . There is
also the Ligue international: des F .\ M .\, founded in Austria by
the Jew Mason and writer, E. Lennhof. The A.M.I. is a union
of Masonic Obediences, whilst the Ligue is an individual union
of Freemasons.”
The author further quotes the engineer, P. Loyer,
who, speaking at a conference in Paris, 7 February,
1934, said:
“ So long as Democracy has remained confined to the lodges,
so long as it has only been a theme for lecture, it has been able to
deceive. Mystic Masons were able to believe they could build a
livable regime. But Masonry has experienced power, and what
has been the result? It has ruled in Russia with Kerensky; it
has ruled in Italy with Giolitti and Nitti; it has ruled in Germany
with the momentary triumph of the Social-Democrat and the
complicity of Briining; it actually rules in Spain with Largo
Caballero, Indalocio Prieto, Rodolpho Llopis, and Alexandre
Leroux; it rules still in France. . . , But everywhere, every­
where without exception, the experience of power has been ill-
omened to it. . . . Masonry begins to understand that all its
democratic ideology leaves it without resource, and that it can
draw not the slightest light from it to solve actual political conflicts.
It knows it and it admits it.”
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 157
Turkey
The Grand Orient of France reported:
“ International Congress, A.M.I., held at Geneva, 21 to 24
August, 1930. . . . The League declares particularly that they
aim at no interference in the authority or the central action of the
great Masonic bodies. What it desires is individual approach-
ment, good relations, and links of personal friendship between
regular Masons, in order thus to form a chain encircling the
globe”
Again we find La Libre Parole, December and
January 1933, writing:
“ The Convent of the A.M.I. took place at Constantinople,
September 1932. Notwithstanding the distance, twenty-two coun­
tries were represented by the delegates of twenty-four different
Masonic obediences. The orators emphasised the importance of this
Convent, which for the first time united in the East the represen­
tatives of World Masonry. . . . The work of the Convent was
opened by the Grand Master Moustafa Hakki. . . . During four
days the Convent regulated all administrative questions which
had been studied for long months by the Executive Committee.
They deplored the financial position, due to the economic crisis,
and above all to the laws which, in certain countries, by inter­
dicting the exportation of capital, made payment of subscriptions
difficult, if not impossible. The Parliamentary brethren of these
countries were invited by the A.M.I. to bring this ‘ deplorable
state of affairs to an end.’ A motion in favour of peace—by dis­
armament—was adopted. F .\ Colaveri ended by declaring: ‘ In
the Assembly the Convent has done important work which affirms
the bases of the Association magonnique internationale, and
definitely assures its future.’ ”
In 1922 the Orator of the Grand Lodge of France
said:
“ My brother Masons, my hope is that Freemasonry, which
has done so much for the emancipation of men, and to which
history owes the national revolutions— 1789, 1871—will also know
158 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
how to make that greatest revolution, which will be the Inter­
national Revolution.”
According to The Times the Turkish Committee of
Union and Progress was Grand Orient Freemasonry and
of the Illuminati. And speaking of Talaat and the
Armenian atrocities, the Daily Telegraph wrote, 29 May,.
1922:
“ It was as a humble official in the post office at Salonica that
he there became acquainted, at an early date, with the Young
Turk Militarists and the politicians of the Grand Orient Free­
masonry, the men who were to bring about the revolution of 1908.
. . . Behaddine Chakir Bey . . . was after Talaat, Enver and
Nazim, the most powerful and sinister figure of the Committee of
Union and Progress . . .”
These, with Dr. Roussouhi Bey and some half-dozen
others, formed the all-powerful and secretive executive
of this C.U.P., which ruled Turkey for about ten years
until 1918. The act which brought Turkey into the
Great War, with all its consequences, was theirs. “ The
Kemalist reaction set in under the malign influence of
the C.U.P. and its Bolshevik allies/’
Then came the anti-Kemal plot and trials at Smyrna
and Angora, July and August 1926, at which most of the
remaining eminent leaders of the “ Young Turks ” were
convicted and hanged. At the trial it was told how
Enver and Talaat “ got in touch with representatives of
the then Irish rebels, and promised to support them,
among other oppressed peoples, if they would wage in­
cessant war against Great Britain” (Daily Telegraph,
26 August, 1926). Again, in an editorial, 30 August,
1926, the same paper writes:
“ Between that ‘Young Turk ’ Party and the Kemalist
Nationalism which has succeeded it and stamped it out, there is
little to choose as regards their political morals. Both have sought
to create and despotically to dominate a New Turkey. Both have
upon their record oppression of all kinds and barbarous massacres.
These things are easily understood when it is realised that many
of the men, including Mustapha Kemal himself, who stand at the
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 159
head of the Nationalist movement, served their political apprentice­
ship in the Committee of Union and Progress; and the final assault
upon the earlier leaders of revolution represents little more than
the determination of the new dictatorship to brook no rivalry or
criticism, within the sphere of its authority.”
Speaking of the “ spirit of revolt and spiritual
anarchy ” in Freemasonry, J. Marques-Riviere quotes
the Mason Jean Bon, Deputy of the Seine, who declared
in the Convent of the Grand Orient of France, 1919:
. . We know no limits on the Left. For we ourselves
have closed the roads on the Right. .. .” And again at the
Convent of the G.O., 1920, the same Mason said: “ The
Society of the Jacobins which was the great author of
the French Revolution was only, so to say, the exterior
aspect of the Masonic Lodge. What the Jacobins did
during the immortal five years of 1789 to 1794 we can
and must do again if the danger returns. . . . ”
B e l g iu m
In three articles in the R .IS S ., 1 and 15 February
and 1 March, 1935, Georges Loic gives some useful in­
formation about Belgian Masonry, its revolutionary affili­
ations and activities. Belgian Masonry is subject to three
authorities: the Supreme Conseil du Rite Ecossais, the
Grand Orient, and the Federation Nationale des Loges
Mixtes. The Belgians were the first to join with their
French and Spanish brothers in founding the A.M.I.
“ The principal centres of intrigue, therefore, appear to
be the Supreme Councils, the ‘ Ligue Internationale de
Francs-Ma<;ons,’ the A.M.I., the Theosophical Society
and its daughter Co-Masonry.” The Supreme Councils
are all issues of the Supreme Council founded 31 May,
1801, at Charleston, by the Jews Dalcho and Mitchell and
by the Comte de Grasse-Tilly. On 19 February, 1922,
an alliance was concluded in the Grand Temple of the
Droit Humain, Paris, between Co-Masonry and the
Grand Orient of France. These links were broken by a
decision of the Council of the Grand Orient, 13 Septem­
ber, 1930 (Convent of Grand Orient of France, 1930).
i6o THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
However autonomous the Grand Orient of Belgium
was, it felt the need to enter a league of Obediences, the
A.M.I., in order to participate in outside current in­
fluences. Two Convents of the A.M.I. were held in
Brussels, those of 1924 and 1930, and in 1933 the Execu­
tive Committee of the A.M.I. was invited to hold
the spring session at Brussels in order to take part in
the manifestations organised for the centenary of the
Grand Orient of Belgium. The place taken in the A.M.I.
by the Belgians is therefore definite, and the more so
when it is known that in 1925 a Jew of Liege, Max
Gottschalk, held office as Administrative Chancellor. He
became also Secretary-General of the A.M.I., secretary
of the Consultative Committee, financial administrator
of the A.M.I., editor of its Bulletin and of other publica­
tions. At a special Convocation of La Parfaite Intelli­
gence et VEtoile Rennies of Liege, the following resolu­
tion was carried:
“ (1) With regard to the Grand Architect of the Universe,
this return to tradition is made from an exclusively symbolic angle,
free from all confessional or dogmatic spirit, each being free to
interpret the symbol as his conscience, reason, and religious senti­
ment dictate.
“ (2) With regard to the Book of Moral Law, the Bible being
generally considered in Belgium as the sacred Book of the Roman
Catholic Church, dominant confession here and hostile to Masonry,
to avoid all equivocation the Book of Moral Law will be repre­
sented by the Constitution of the Order of 1723 (ancient charges)
original text and Masonic precepts. During the workings it will
be open on the altar under the Square and Compass ” (Bulletin,
A.M.I., April-June 1930).
The efforts made for over forty years to impose a
system of International Arbitration upon States are
known. Before the War the F . *
. Leon Bourgeois suc­
ceeded in founding the International Court of Justice
at The Hague. In 1917 a Congress, now celebrated,
uniting Latin, some Allies, and Neutral Masonries, met
in the hall of the Convents of the G.O. of France, and
there the Masons, Andre Lebey and Meoni, laid the
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 161
foundations of the League of Nations, of which the
F . •. Sieyes and the Jacobin Deputy Milhaud already
dreamed in 1792. F . •. Magnette in 1930 at Liege, on
the occasion of the Convent of the A.M.I., said:
“ This creation of the League of Nations was a manifestation
of International solidarity which only scoffing and systematically
sceptical minds mocked at or foolishly disparaged. . . . It was
the same sentiment which guided the founders of the A.M.I. in
1921; they desired to establish closer relations between the multiple
obediences which bore the name of lodges and give to an institution
spread over the entire surface of the universe, a rational organi­
sation and a centre of development which would increase its power
a hundredfold.”
At the same Convent F . *. Henri La Fontaine, vice-
president of the Belgian Senate, said: “ You are not
unaware . . . that Masonry should not occupy itself
with politics. . . . But all the same it must not be for­
gotten that in the past it was in the Lodges that the
Great Revolutions were prepared, notably the French and
American Revolutions. . . . In many of our Lodges the
batteries end with the words of the French Revolution
—Liberty, Equality and Fraternity ” (Bulletin, A.M.I.,
July-September 1930).
What Le Couteulx de Canteleu said of Masonry in
1863 might well be said of it to-day:
“ Freemasons have contended for the empire of the world as
few sovereigns have done, and to what end? To be the point of
issue of all follies and all monstrosities; the Cabala, magic, her­
metic philosophy, communications with spirits, magnetism, theoso­
phy, deism, atheism, physical and moral regeneration, vengeance,
destruction of empires, the Universal Republic; if we exclude
these follies, what remains ? A few honest citizens playing mourn­
fully in the Chapel of the Tomb of Hiram! ”
Georges Lo'ic concludes:
“ The Jews who knew the triumph of the Bolshevik Revolu­
tion in Russia and in Central Europe are feeling the wind of
defeat. . . . The two Socialist Internationals have constituted
the Front Unique at Amsterdam to take up the imperilled revolu-
II
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
162
tionary work. Blinded by an absurd mysticism, Freemasonry
makes ready to play Kerensky by the side of international Jews.
Certainly the forces of Masonry are immense. . . . It is, how­
ever, weak, for its principles force it to act through intermediaries,
to be only an influence . . . a machine to form opinion . . . with­
out outside help—complicity of foreign Governments or inter­
national financiers and their troops, the Workers International—it
can do little . . . it is incapable of forming a durable edifice."
The League of Nations
On 28, 29, and 30 June, 1917, the Grand Orient and
Grand Lodge of France held a Congress in Paris uniting
representatives of Allies and Neutrals’ Masonries—Eng­
lish excepted. A few extracts from the report of the
speeches may, in view of the French proposals at the
Disarmament Conference of the League of Nations, be
of interest to the general reader. The text of the report
is given in Dans VAtelier Magonnique, by Andre Lebey,
a prominent Mason and orator of the Grand Orient of
France; the subject of the discussion was “ the prepara­
tion of the League of Nations ” :
“ Collective justice which they have desired to make possible
by causing it to dominate individual and egotistic justice of State
to State. . . . Thus the supreme force of the community of
Nations, both material and moral, will know how to overcome the
murderous designs of one or several of them. There will then no
longer be neutral nations, for none, in an organisation of this
order, will be able to isolate itself without defaulting from its
agreed duty. Injustice done to one of them will strike them
collectively and individually. . . . Neutrals ought therefore to be
united among themselves in such a way that they will always be led
to lend assistance. . . .
*
*The task which is imposed oh our generation, and more
especially on you, my FF.\, consists in bringing about a decisive
progress towards this International law. . . . This International
law is the law of peace. . . . The International law must be armed
with sanctions such as will discourage, in advance, those who
would be tempted to break their word. United among themselves
the nations who wish to live in peace, in the respect of their
reciprocal rights, would create an irresistible sovereign force of
economic and military action which would prevent the blind masses
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 163
being drawn into imperialistic conflicts. This union of the differ­
ent national forces will itself be, in order to realise its defensive
task, adapted, arranged, and equipped with a view to its highest
efficiency. The Law will thus posssess guarantees of continuance.
It will become a force by the adherence of the greatest number of
States. This force, through a veritable police of nations, will
maintain universal peace by placing all civilised powers on the side
of any nation, whose rights, without provocation, will have been
violated by another.”
Among the conclusions presented, in the name of
the Commission, by F .• . Lebey and adopted by the Con­
gress were:
“ The International Parliament associates, in appropriate
commissions, for all important questions which facilitate inter­
national relations, collaborators chosen by it and ratified by the
National Chambers of the different States, so as to regulate col­
lectively and internationally, universal questions ef legislation
which will draw still closer the links of the peoples. . . .
"The International Parliament will equally form within
itself, by means of a member per nation, a judicial power, creating
in this way an International Court of Justice, before which will
be brought all national conflicts between the nations. Those
elected, nominated for three years, according to precedents, are
responsible before the International Parliameht and cannot pro­
mulgate a sentence unless it is ratified by it.
"N o nation has the right to declare war upon another, for
war is a crime against the human race. All difference between
States ought therefore to be deferred to the International Parlia­
ment. The nation who would refuse to do so would thus place
itself outside the League of Nations, which would, after having
exhausted all other means of convincing it, notably by economic
boycott, rupture of all relations, complete blockade by land and
sea, and absolute isolation, have the right and duty to constrain
it by force to recognise the universal law.
" The International Parliament will itself define the diplomatic,
economic and military measures which will be established in order
to assure the exercise of its powers. Its aim, properly so-called, is
under sufficient guarantees of the autonomy of each nation, the
limitation of armaments so as to lead one day to universal dis­
armament. The International Parliament should support arma­
ments of each country constituting the League of Nations only in
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
164
so far as shall be necessary to efficaciously counter-balance the
armaments of those who would remain outside the League of
Nations.
“ The International Parliament will itself choose the place of
its meetings, the town will become the capital of the world, the
territory of which will be internationalised. It will adopt as
emblem a banner on which an orange sun will radiate upon a
white ground in the midst of yellow stars as numerous as the
nations who will adhere to the conventions above.”
Such is the Masonic dream of Internationalism,
where the most backward and barbarous nation would
be on an equality with the great and most civilised
Powers—Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, the slogan of
the French Revolution, false as it is subversive!
And when in 1934 the proposal came to admit the
Soviet Government—that barbarous regime of tyranny,
brutality, and slavery, Jew-dominated and Jew-repre­
sented—as an honoured member of this League of
Nations, an outcry was raised by at least some of the
Press. The Gazette de Lausanne of 16 August of that
year wrote:
“ If Russia is received officially into the League of Nations,
we shall have permanently in our country the agents of the
Russian Secret Police, which innocently calls itself ‘ Com­
missariat of the Interior for the People.’ . . . The work of the
G.P.U. is military espionage and sapping operations against
organisations and persons who oppose the Soviet and Communism
in Switzerland. The espionage is also political and industrial,
including the constitution of secret *cells' in industrial enter­
prises. . . .”
There were also some British papers which made
vigorous protests against the admittance of Soviet Russia
to the League; for example, the Sunday Pictorial, 26
August, 1934, wrote:
“ Probably the most interesting story in the world to-day
would be the complete revelation of precisely what intrigues are
going on to get Russia into the League of Nations. Here is
something before which justice, decency, and mercy may well
curl up and die. If Russia does get in, then Geneva will, without
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 165
doubt, be transformed into one of the most sinister and dangerous
centres in the world. Behind the cloak of idealism, and all that
worthy decency which is supposed to go with the League, we shall
have international plotting of purely gangster morality. . . . If
Russia breaks into the League we shall be presented with perhaps
the greatest irony since history began, the debasement of the
great institution formed to make world peace into a laboratory
for world disruption, largely via Far Eastern and Indian affairs,
but also in many other ways. . . .”
To-day we are witnessing the reaction to this Judaeo-
Masonic League in the present Italo-Abyssinian crisis,
and who can tell what sinister intrigues are at the back
of it!
Stavisky
We cannot leave this question of the power of
Judaeo-Masonry without at least touching on the recent
Stavisky scandals. So far as we have seen, the best
account of what led up to the bursting of the Stavisky
bomb is to be found in Leon Daudet’s book, La Police
Politique, 1934, in which he tells us:
“ Now there were two rival bands equally powerful as to
their political, financial, Masonic, and other relations: the Stavisky
band . . . and the Levy-Dubois group. . . . The two groups, com­
posed of powerful personalities and banks, attacked each other
with violence. . . . Both having need of the complicity of officials,
corrupt or corruptible, depended on the Surete Generale. . . .
The Levy-Dubois group was founded in 1927 by three small Jews
without fortune . . . all three were affiliated to the Lodge Droit et
le Devoir. . .
Their first attempt to manipulate certificates of annuities
for war damages and to issue a public loan came to
nothing. Then a brilliant idea came, and—
“ A law was prepared and voted in July 1933, which permitted
financing, by annuities, the liabilities of the State towards Com­
munes and Departments. Through the Levy-Dubois group they
prepared L’Outillage National on the model of what had been
done for the liberated regions. . . . But Stavisky intervened. He
founded at the same time and on the same model, with the ap-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
166
proval of the Quai d’Orsay, the Caisse autonome. . . . Suddenly
the intervention of the City spoiled everything and set a light
to the powder. The Credit Lyonnais forced Levy-Dubois to
dissolve L ’Outillage National and give up the affair. . . .”
This Dubois group, however, exploded the Stavisky
scandal by means of pamphlets threatening exposure.
The result is known, and how the affair of the “ bons de
Bayonne ” burst.
“ Stavisky, this huge swindler who was at the same time
a spy of a certain capacity and a corrupter of genius, had found
the means of monopolising a large number of provincial casinos,
notably in the region of Biarritz and Saint-Jean-de-Luz, also,
with the complicity of the Surete Generale’s gaming section, some
gambling-hells of the Parisian region, giving fruitful returns.
In the first rank of the latter was the Cercle Hippique or
Frolic’s . . . in principle the president of Frolic’s, a veritable
police-trap, was always a police official. . . . “ The Stavisky bomb
burst, and with it disappeared Stavisky—suicide or murder?
Suddenly, on 20 February, fifteen days after the shooting of
patriots and ex-Service men on the Place de la Concorde, the
Judge Albert Prince, member of the Judiciary Commission to
inquire into those responsible for the remissions granted for
years by the Parquet to the swindler Stavisky, was found cut to
pieces on the railway line some kilometres from Dijon. His
portfolio was found nearby, with all papers gone; and it had
contained, it was known, two overwhelming documents accusing
those responsible for the Stavisky remissions. These were to
have been brought up, next day, before the Commission of In­
quiry. To further cover those implicated, “ suicide" was
whispered and suggested.
Stavisky and his Jew accomplices Hayotte and
Cohen had swindled the Credit Municipal de Bayonne of
hundreds of millions of francs, and several official per­
sonages were directly compromised. Stavisky, a notori­
ous old offender, had been nineteen times found guilty
and condemned and nineteen times acquitted, thanks to
his Government protectors. In Paris there was an ex­
plosion as the Government clearly sought to hush up the
affair. The Chamber nominated at the elections of 1932
was very “ Left,” and composed of a large majority of
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY I67
Freemasons, and although the Government received a vote
of confidence in Parliament, owing to public reaction it
was forced to resign. It was followed by another,
equally permeated by Freemasons, and refused to insti­
tute a Commission of Inquiry.
Upon this refusal followed the tragic shootings of
6 February, 1934, when twenty-seven were killed and two
thousand wounded. Next day the Government was again
forced to resign, and calm was only restored when the
President of the Republic called upon the former Presi­
dent Doumergue to save the Parliamentary regime. And
what of Freemasonry?
Speaking of Judaeo-Masonry and the Stavisky
“ affaire,” the Editor of the R .IS S ., 15 March, 1934,
gives the names of seven Masons acting on the Commis­
sion of Inquiry into the scandals, and six on the Com­
mission of Inquiry into the riots of 6 February, and adds
two more names, Masons who were “ to aid the Com­
mission of Inquiry to determine in what quarter the guilty
and accomplices must be sought.” Further, he write*:
“ Thus the existence of Freemasonry queers the pitch of
every institution. A secret political power is incompatible with
an independent Government. The Commissions of Inquiry are
cored by the secret power. The good will of honest members
of the Commission strikes up against a permanent conspiracy.
It is thus in all workings of the State, the Mason Deputy does not
represent his electors: he represents his Lodge.
“ The Mason-official does not impartially fulfil his duties;
he places his public authority at the service of his secret chiefs.
The Mason-judge is not free; he is obliged to submit to fraternal
pressure. An independent Government cannot co-exist with a
secret Government; it suppresses it or else loses its own inde­
pendence. . . . What is the exact participation of Freemasonry in
the hushing up of the Stavisky Affair ?”
The Freemasons themselves were disturbed and cer­
tain of them demitted. At the General Assembly of the
Spanish Grand Orient, 20 February, 1933, among others,
the following decision is all-important, applicable to all
Grand Orient Masonry;
l 6 8 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
“ The Masonic authorities are bound to see to the fulfilment,
with necessary frequency, of the duty imposed upon the brethren
exercising public employment to renew the oath, to explain and
masonically justify their public conduct before their superiors.
And as in the exercise of public employment he can fail in his
Masonic duties as much by deed as by omission, this signifies
that the Mason filling this post will be obliged, not only to ex­
plain and justify every action appearing blameable or doubtful,
but also to receive Masonic directions and pay attention to
them. . .
Therefore it would appear that these Masons are not
free, but subject to their superiors and, under oath, must
obey them.
Finally, J. le Francois, in the R .I.S S ., 15 Septem­
ber, 1933, gives us the following interesting information.
The Grand Lodge of France at its Convent of 1932 re­
ported on the “ sickness of contemporary France ” as
submitted by the lodges and synthesised by F .■.
Chaligny. M. le Franqois writes:
“ The report of F. *. Chaligny clearly admits the failure of
mystic democracy. . . . In the first place the spirit of revolution
has no longer worshippers, enthusiasts, or apostles. The great
ancestors have lost face, or rather, their memory has no longer
pious adorers among the people. Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,
who cares about them ? The Rights of Man ? . . . ' They have
arrived at the period of the abuse of them/ said F .\ Chaligny,
‘ where the greater part of the members of collectivity or at least
the most influential neglect the duties to which they were bound.
. . . It appears then that the myth has served its day___ During
150 years we have lived on the revolutionary myth. Has it been
able to realise the infinite hopes that men had placed in the splendid
formula, “ Liberty, Equality, Fraternity” ? . . . We have shown
the failure of all institutions which claimed to be inspired by
these three prophetic words. . . . It would appear that the
principles which they have been accustomed to regard as
indispensable to the health of a society are forgotten or trampled
underfoot/ ”
Moreover, at the Convent of the Grand Orient, 1920,
F . *. Fontenay said:
CONTINENTAL FREEMASONRY 169
“ Every revolution aims at the assurance of universal happi­
ness. When our ancestors' proclaimed as principle, Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity, they aimed at realising happiness. After
130 years we see their work; it is not brilliant; of Liberty none
remains to us; of Equality there is scarcely any; of Fraternity
there has never been any.”
Thus vanishes the great Masonic dream!
CHAPTER VIII
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY
S p e a k i n g of the occultism of the nineteenth century as
elaborated by the Martinists, Papus, Eliphas Levi, and
the Theosophists, which includes the queer ensemble of
such things as metaphysical phenomena, spiritism, magic,
astrology, hermetic medicine, the Cabala, esoteric num­
bers, mystic exegesis, and speculations on reincarnation
and karma, and above all a doctrinal system presented as
the common source from which all religions have been
derived, Marcel Lallemand, in Notes on Occultism,
writes:
“ It is in truth an avalanche of pompous words, grandiloquent
expressions, apocalyptic phrases, mysterious signs and silences
commanded by a pseudo-initiation into the sacred mysteries. . . .
Under the influence of Theosophy, it is associated with visions
of libraries hidden in the caves of the Himalayas, of fantastic
ceremonies in the Egyptian Temples, etc. . . . It is known that
the occultists claim to be heirs of the secret traditions going back
to the Egyptians and transmitted throughout the Middle Ages by
the Rose-Croix, the Templars, etc. . . . Most of these occultists
are attached to Freemasonry. . . . This subterranean world
works feverishly, and many public events are only comprehensible
as a function of the agitation of these occultist-termites, whose
activity is one of the least equivocal signs of the spiritual disorder
of the Modern World. . . . It would also be legitimate to speak
of a satanisation (rather than deification) of these obscure aspects
of the human soul. It is in this that the danger of occultism lies,
which often ends in mental and psychic disorder, leading many of
its adepts to founder in sexual perversion, madness, or crime, as
shown in the annuals of modem occultism ” (quoted by de
Poncins).
Further, de Poncins writes:
“ Occultism has more important repercussions than one
thinks. A wave O
f occultism preceded and accompanied the two
170
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 171
great revolutionary movements of 1789 and 1917. The Theo-
sophists and Illumines of the eighteenth century, Jacob Boehme,
Emmanuel Swedenborg, Martinez de Pasqualis, Cagliostro, the
Comte de Saint-Germain, etc., had their counterparts in the
numerous Russian sects and in the magi and occultists of the
Imperial Court, Philippe, Papus, the Tibetan Badmaev, and above
all Rasputin, whose extraordinary influence contributed directly
to the unchaining of the revolution.”
Looking back over history, it seems to be evident
that the spread of secret societies, illuminism, theurgy,
and spiritism has always been a sure precursor of revolu­
tions and the fall of Crowns. From its commencement
the reign of Nicolas II of Russia was one long succession
of mystics, prophets, and Illumines—instruments of the
“Hidden Hand ”—who, by their strange practices and
sometimes scandalous lives, contributed not a little to
bring discredit upon the Court of Russia, eventually led
to its downfall, and through death and destruction ini­
tiated the Jew-led Soviet rule with its dream of World
Revolution and World Domination—the dream of Grand
Orient Illuminised Masonry.
The first of these mystery workers of outstanding
importance was Maitre Philippe, chief of the School of
Theurgy at Lyons. He thus described his work: “ From
the age of thirteen I have performed miraculous cures.
I am an unconscious intermediary between humanity and
a Superior Power who overshadows it. The astonishing
results I daily obtain, I admire, but do not understand.”
In 1900 he was introduced into the Court of Russia by
Papus, the well-known Martinist and Illumine, who
looked upon Philippe as his “ Master.” Gradually he
became indispensable to both Emperor and Empress. In
1903, returning to Russia after an enforced absence, he
initiated the Empress into the practices of spiritism and
theurgy. It was he who inspired the Emperor with the
idea of universal peace by general disarmament! He
was finally forced to retire to Lyons, and died in August
1905 {he Maitre Philippe, by J. Bricaud).
Papus the Martinist and theurgist, whose real name
was Dr. Encausse, first appeared in St. Petersburg in
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
172
1900, and about then or later introduced Martinism
among the Russian aristocracy. In 1905 he was again
summoned to Russia in connection with the revolution of
that year, his advice being considered valuable at Court.
Paleologue, in his Memoires, 1916, tells how, “ The very
day on which Papus arrived in St. Petersburg a riot
spread terror in Moscow and a mysterious syndicate
proclaimed a general railway strike.” And with regard
to the later revolution Papus professed to be able to
avert this catastrophe by means of his magic, but only
so long as he remained in his physical body. Papus’s
last visit to Russia was in 1906 and he died, October
1916, in the Great War.
In his book, Rasputin: The Holy Devil, Fillop-
Miller writes of yet another:
“ One of the most curious phenomena of the Russian Im­
perial Court was the ‘ doctor of Tibetan medicine,’ Badmaev. . . .
Shamzaran Badmaev affirmed that he had acquired an exact know­
ledge of the secret doctrines of ‘ Tibetan magic ’ and medical
science in his father’s house (Transbaikalia), as the knowledge
was an ancient tradition in the family. . . . There was a time in
Russian politics when not only the Court, but the ministers and
administrative officials were entirely under the sway of Badmaev.
. . . He established a sanatorium distinguished from all others
by its political character. His party affiliations and political views
were carefully noted on the chart of every patient at the institu­
tion. . . . Badmaev kept up an active correspondence with his
patients after their treatment was over, in which, in addition to
medical advice . . . he also gave them political instructions. In
the course of time medicine and politics and ‘ lotus essences ’
became more and more involved in each other, resulting in a
fantastic political sorcery that had its origin in the Badmaev
sanatorium, and that decided the destiny of Russia.”
According to Paleologue, Protopopov, the Minister
of the Interior, was brought into touch with the sinister
monk Rasputin by Badmaev, the Mongolian quack. And
writing of Rasputin, in his Inquiry into the Assassination
of the Russian Imperial Family, Nicolas Sokoloff writes
that Rasputin was surrounded and directed by three Jews:
Ivan Theodorovitch Manoussevitch Manouilof, who had
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 173
numerous connections both in Russia and abroad and
before 1905 was long affiliated to the police in Paris.
It was he too who introduced the famous Philippe to the
Russian Court. Secondly, a Jewish banker Dmitri
Rubenstein, who was unsuccessfully accused of intrigues
with the Germans during the War. Lastly, his secre­
tary, Aron Samouilovitch Simanovitch, a diamond mer­
chant of Petrograd, a Jew by origin and religion. He
lived in Rasputin’s house and apparently acted for
Rasputin without consulting him.
An extraordinary glamour has for long hung around
the name of the Comte de Saint-Germain and to-day he
is one of the most “ sacred ” Masters, £ven to an obses­
sion, of the Theosophical Society. Below we give some
varied opinions about this almost legendary character.
In a series of articles The Anatomy of Revolution, by
G. G. or “ Dargon,” author of the Nameless Order (see
the Patriot, October 1922), he writes:
“ There can be no doubt that a hundred and fifty years ago
Grand Orient Masonry and Templar Masonry on the Continent
were permeated and used by occult societies with subversive and
anti-religious aims. The High Priest and master-mind of this
movement in the eighteenth century would seem to have been a
brilliant adventurer calling himself ‘ Count St. Germain ’ or
Ragoczy—believed to have been a Portuguese Jew—an assiduous
organiser of revolt, and among whose connections or intimates
we find Mirabeau, Weishaupt, Cagliostro and Paschalis (the two
last also of Jewish origin), all of whom played their part in pre­
paring the network of secret societies which helped to bring about
the French revolution.”
Again, in the same series he writes:
“ The origin of all the occult societies of to-day could prob­
ably be traced directly back to similar societies of the past. . . .
The Theosophical Society, for instance, was founded by Mme
Blavatsky, who was employed as an agent of the Carbonari, which
she joined in 1856, when under the influence of Mazzini, who
appears to have founded a branch of the Carbonari in England,
and whose connection with Orient Masonry is well known. Mrs.
A. Besant, Mme Blavatsky's disciple and successor, could, there-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
174
fore, justly claim to be of the line of the prophets of the mystical
revolutionary cult which reveres Ragoczy as the ‘ Master.’ Hence
it is not surprising to find that in founding Co-Masonry in Eng­
land the adoration of Ragoczy . . . is a cardinal part of the ritual
of the higher lodges of that body.”
Mrs. Besant, herself, in a pamphlet on “ The
Masters,” 1912, tells us:
“ The last survivor of the Royal House of Rakoczi, known
as the Comte de St. Germain in the history of the eighteenth
century; as Bacon in the seventeenth century; as Robertus, the
monk, in the sixteenth; as Hunyadi Janos in the fifteenth; as
Christian Rosencreuz in the fourteenth—to take a few of his
incarnations—was disciple through those laborious lives and now
has achieved Masterhood, the ‘ Hungarian Adept ’ of The Occult
World, and known to some of us in that Hungarian body.”
Another theosophist and occultist, of New York,
Mrs. Alice A. Bailey, thus describes him in her book,
Initiation Human and Solar, 1933. Master Rakoczi is
a Hungarian, and lives in the Carpathian Mountains.
Was known as the Comte de St. Germain, Roger Bacon,
and later Francis Bacon. Works with the occult side of
affairs in Europe, largely through esoteric ritual and
ceremonial, being vitally interested in the effects of the
ceremonial of the Freemasons, of various fraternities,
and of the Churches. Acts practically in America and
Europe as general manager for carrying out the plans
of the executive council of the Lodge, which is an inner
group of Masters round the three Lords—the latter
being, Manu, Maitreya, and Manachohan.
Then, according to Eliphas Levi, who was a Mar-
tinist: St. Germain professed the Catholic religion and
conformed to its practices. His family connections were
unknown, but he talked as if he had lived for centuries.
He chose his own disciples, required passive obedience,
and told them that they were called to the royalty of
Melchisedek and Solomon which was both an initiation
and a priesthood, and he said to them: “ Be the torch of
the world; if your light is that of a planet, you will be
nothing in the sight of God. I reserve for you a
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 175
splendour of which the solar glory is a shadow. You
shall guide the course of stars and those who rule empires
shall be governed by you.”
‘His principles, according to Eliphas Levi, were those
of the Rose-Croix; he was ambassador of the illuminated
Theosophists, and he was said to be a skilful physician
and chemist. And as Eliphas Levi concludes:
“ The Comte Saint-Germain was a fashion for a moment,
and as he was an amiable and youthful Methuselah, who knew
how to combine the tattle of a roue with the ecstasies of a
Theosophist, he was the rage in certain circles, though speedily
replaced by other phantasiasts. So goes the world! ”
Finally, after the illuminising of the Grand Orient
Lodges of France, a General Convent of Masons was
convoked by the secret Committee for 15 February, 1785,
and among the deputies were: Saint-Germain, Etrilla,
Mesmer, Cagliostro, Mirabeau, etc. (Mirabeau). At
this Convent the French Revolution and its propagation
throughout Europe was resolved upon, even to the decree
of regicide. We know that Cagliostro's place in this
scheme was to besmirch Marie-Antoinette and so prepare
for the fall and death of the King.
Such are the varied accounts of this mysterious
“ Master Rakoczi,” masquerading under the name and
cloak of the by-no-means “ Holy ” Comte de St. Germain,
thus enchaining the imaginations and emotions of thou­
sands of worthy but undoubtedly deluded Theosophists,
more especially in America, that land of fantastic “ isms.”
Moreover, one can easily understand how important the
doctrine of reincarnation is to such sinister Masters, for
without it the name “ Comte de St. Germain ” would be
dead and useless as a burnt-out ember.
Finally, we would agree with Rene Guenon, the
well-known Orientalist, who accuses Theosophy
“ of immediately unbalancing feeble minds who are drawn into
these centres; the number of unfortunates led by these things
to ruin, madness, and at times even to death is much more con­
siderable than can be imagined by insufficiently informed people.
. . . It can be said without exaggeration that the diffusion of
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
176
‘ Neo-Spiritualism ’ under all its forms, constitutes a veritable
public danger which cannot be too insistently denounced."
M. J. de Boistel, in the R.I.S.S., 15 November, 1934,
writes: “ It can be said that the occult sects which have
formed themselves in the heart of Christianity, and Free­
masonry itself, are almost all merely an adaptation, more
or less crude, of the Cabalistic and Gnostic errors.” He
gives the principal dates of the renaissance of this caba­
listic gnosticism as: 1855, the revival of Spiritism by
Allan Kardoc; 1875, the formation of the Theosophical
Society; 1885, the reconstitution of Martinism; 1888, the
restoration of the sect of Gnostics; 1912, the foundation
of Symbolism; 1919, the opening of the International
Metaphysical Institution. In 1888, he tells us, F
Jules Doinel, departmental archivist of Loiret and mem­
ber of the Council of the Grand Orient of France, re­
vived the Gnostic Church, calling himself the First
Patriarch, Valentin II. He grouped together high in­
tellectuals, and in 1893 a Synod was constituted, a
Hierarchy was established, and several bishops were
created. Later F .*. Doinel repudiated these doctrines
and returned to the Catholic Church. He was succeeded,
as Patriarch, by F .•. Fabre des Essarts, known as
Synesius, who founded the review, La Gnose, in 1909; in
1907, the rival Patriarch, Jean II (J. Bricaud), founded
the review, Le Reveil Gnostique.
After his resignation F .*. Doinel wrote:
“ Jewish action, Jewish infiltration, Jewish hatred! How
often have I heard Freemasons groan under the domination which
the Jews impose upon the Lodges, upon the Philosophic Lodges,
upon the Councils of the Grand Orient in all countries, at all
points of the Triangle, the whole length of the vast world. . . .
Since the Revolution the Jews have invaded the Lodges. . . .
To the learned the Cabala; to the ignorant the Jewish spirit. The
Cabala dogmatises and makes of metaphysics, the metaphysics of
Lucifer. The Jewish spirit directs action."
M. de Boistel notes four characteristics common to
all such sects, including Freemasonry: (1) The attempt
of a crude adaptation to Christianity. (2) Esotericism,
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 17 7
the existence of a secret tradition, and teaching reserved
for initiates alone, perpetuated from Antiquity through­
out the ages. (3) Esoteric doctrine transmitted only by
initiation, necessitating successive phases and corre­
sponding grades. The initiatic organisation has existed
in Gnosticism from its origin and was revived by
Masonry. (4) Explanation of the World so as to do
away with the dogma of creation, leading to the deifica­
tion of man, necessitating the doctrines of Karma and
Reincarnation. Occultists, Gnostics, Theosophists,
M'artinists, and Rose-Croix join hands in propagating,
under varying names, these common errors and specula­
tions.
Therefore, going back to last century we would
trace a few links in the occult and subversive chain, so
curiously interwoven, which has gradually and insidiously
led up to the present International World Revolution,
which is to materialise the unity required for their dream
of some monstrous World State ruled by invisible
“ Supermen.” '
One of the earliest steps in this renewed World
Movement appears to be the Theosophical Society,
founded in 1875 by the Russian, Mme Blavatsky, a
woman, according to Mrs. Besant, “ with little educa­
tion ” but a powerful medium. She was an initiate of
the Druse Order—a development from the House of
Wisdom, Cairo—and was initiated into the Carbonari
by Mazzini. The aims of the Alta Vendita, the Supreme
Directory of the Carbonari, were identical with those of
the Illuminati. In 1880 Weishaupt’s Illuminati was re­
organised at Dresden by Leopold Engel, under the name
of Ordre Renove des Illuminati Germanics, and played a
very suspect political role; Steiner, it is believed, belonged
to it, but later. Dr. Franz Hartmann, who was born
in 1838 at Donauwerth, in Bavaria, along with others,
founded the Ordre de la Rose-Croix Esoterique, which
was closely linked to the above; he also established in
Switzerland, September 1889, a Theosophico-Monastic
body called Fraternitas, and associated with him in this
were Dr. R. Thurmann, Dr. A. Pioda, and the Countess
12
THE TRAIL OF TH E SERPENT
i;8
Wachtmeister, the last a friend of Mme Blavatsky.
About 1887 he also appears to have belonged to an
American branch of the Golden Dawn at its centre in
Boston.
In 1895 a certain Ordre des Temptiers Orientaux was
founded by Dr. Karl Kellner, and at his death in 1905 was
carried on by a Theosophist, Theodore Reuss, and the
Rose-Croix Esoterique finally became its “ inner circle.”
Theodore Reuss, who later called himself Reuss-Wilsson,
was a German living in London, where for long he held
an official position in the “ Theosophical Publishing Co.”
Unable to return to his own country, he, nevertheless,
founded a so-called Grand Orient of the German Empire,
with Franz Hartmann as one of its dignitaries. It was
said that Reuss initiated Rudolf Steiner into the O.T.O.,
and that Crowley's O.T.O. was a branch of the same
movement.
John Yarker, who died in 1913, and who has written
much on “ Arcane Schools,” constituted a so-called
Swedenborgian Rite, said to be entirely his own inven­
tion, and in no way connected with the eighteenth-century
Rites inspired by Swedenborg’s ideas. Yarker made
Papus, the well-known occultist, “ Grand Marechal ” of
the Supreme Council, and in a list, 1897, Colonel Olcott’s
name was given as representing the Supreme Council of
the Grand Lodge and Temple of Bombay. As we know,
the mysterious Golden Dawn was launched in London in
1888 by Dr. Wynn Westcott and others, which later
became the Stella Matutina with its inner Order the
R.R. et A.C., when A. E. Waite seceded (1903), taking
his followers with him, also the name Golden Dawn of
which he remained Chief until about 1915, when it went
into abeyance. Later he formed another group, calling
it the Order of the Rosy-Cross. Under Dr. Felkin, who
was Chief, from the formation of the Stella Matutina
until he died in 1926, the Order, and his New Zealand
Order, were both linked up with Dr. Rudolf Steiner’s
Anthroposophy, which was a secession from the Theo­
sophical Society, 1913. Theosophy, through its Co-
Masonry, was itself linked, for a time, with Grand Orient
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 179
Masonry. Dr. Wynn Westcott resigned from the Golden
Dawn in 1897 and Crowley became a member in 1898,
but was expelled in 1900. Such are the true facts of
this mysterious Order. The present writer was never
a member of the Golden Dawn, but was initiated into the
Stella Matutina, under Dr. Felkin, in 1908.
Further, Max Heindel, a former disciple of Dr.
Steiner, who disapproved of the demanded secrecy, broke
away from Steiner and went to America, where, in 1911,
he, without permission, published Steiner’s teachings in
his book Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception. Steiner soon
after published his Occult Science, etc. In America Max
Heindel founded his Rosicrucian Fellowship in order to
spread the teaching without the objectionable secrecy.
Because of this betrayal of secret teaching the members
of R.R. et A.C. were forbidden to work with this
Fellowship!
In his book, 1911, Max Heindel writes concerning
world changes:
“ The caste system, which was the stronghold of England in
India, is crumbling. Instead of being separated into small groups,
the people are uniting in the demand that the oppressor shall
depart and leave them to live in freedom under a government of,
by, and for the people [Theosophical influence!]. Russia, 1911,
is tom by strife for freedom from a dictatorial autocratic govern­
ment [exchanged for Bolshevik slavery!]. Turkey has awakened
and taken a long stride toward liberty [first under the Young
Turks of the Grand Orient!] [In America] we are not yet
satisfied . . . we see that we have still industrial freedom to gain.
. . . Thus, all over the world the old systems of paternal govern­
ment are changing. Nations as such have had their day, and
are unwittingly working toward Universal Brotherhood in accord­
ance with the design of our invisible leaders, who are none the
less potent in shaping events because they are not officially seated
in the councils of nations."
As Rene Guenon says:
“ We do not believe, therefore, that Theosophists, any more
than occultists or spiritists, have the force to succeed entirely by
themselves in such an undertaking; but is there not behind all
these movements something much more formidable which even
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
their chiefs perhaps do not know and of which they, in their
turn, are merely instruments?”
To again quote G.G. in The Anatomy of Revolu­
tion :
“ Behind every revolutionary movement throughout the world
there is always some secret organisation. These revolutionary
movements in all countries, whatever the bodies which actually
organise them, have always three primary aims: (a) the abolition
of existing constitutions, whether Monarchist or Republican;
(b) the abolition of private ownership of property; (c) the aboli­
tion of established religion. Sometimes the chief aim is camou­
flaged under a pattern of nationalism or of internationalism; but
the attack is always directed ultimately against these foundations
of civilisation. . . . The same people often preach nationalism in
Ireland, India, Egypt, or South Africa, when the effect is to
disintegrate the British Empire. . . . Mr. George Lansbury, the
most prominent figure connected with the Herald newspaper, and
founder of the Herald League, is not only a member of the
Theosophical Society, and, it is said, of the Co-Masons also, but
claims to be of the line of the prophets of revolt. In an article
in the Daily Herald (24 November, 1921), on the death of Mr.
Hyndman, he describes himself as a disciple of that gentleman,
who in turn was the disciple of Mazzini. So1that here, on his own
admission, we can trace once more the political pedigree of a
leading revolutionary to the Carbonari of the mid-nineteenth
century.”
To-day Mr. Lansbury would have us parcel out the
British Empire among all nations so as to ensure Peace!
The political development of these secret move­
ments is always by gradual stages, culminating in revo­
lution as a preparation for world domination by their
hidden directors. Thus Mme Blavatsky, notwith­
standing her early adventures in spiritualism and
phenomena, firmly established the Theosophical Society,
whose influence to-day in one form or another is world­
wide. Her Secret Doctrine, received, it is said, from the
Masters, is to-day the Gospel and binding force among
her faithful followers, and thus has she prepared the way.
Mrs. Besant, continuing the required development in
India, attempted a pseudo-revival of Hinduism and later
180
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY l 8 l
the establishment of a World-Teacher—mouthpiece of
her hidden directors, entirely anti-Christian; further,
her social and educational work led inevitably to politics,
the disintegrating- so-called Nationalism. After a
Theosophical Convention in Madras in 1884, the
National Congress was initiated by a group of, largely,
Indian Theosophists, for the expression of Indian aspira­
tions. In 1885 Mrs. Besant joined the Fabians, and
was for fifty years a member of Labour. Much later
she drew up her Indian Home Rule Bill, which she
brought to England, where it was officially approved of
by the Labour Party. Again, in September 1928, this
gave place to the Nehru Committee Constitution, sup­
ported by Mrs. Besant, demanding Dominion Status.
But Gandhi, that fanatical but astute political dreamer,
not content to wait, issued an ultimatum demanding a
Government decision by the end of 1929; no decision
being forthcoming, he thereupon opened his campaign
for absolute independence by civil disobedience, leading
the country into chaos.
Mrs. Besant joined the Theosophical Society in
1889, and went to India in 1893 m order, as she said, “ to
give back to India her ancient freedom . . . by the re­
vival of ancient philosophical and scientific religions ”
and by placing “ India as an equal partner in a great
Indo-British Commonwealth/’ As Sir Valentine Chirol
wrote in Indian Unrest:
“ The advent of the Theosophists, heralded by Mme Blavatsky
and Colonel Olcott, gave a fresh impulse to the revival, and cer­
tainly no Hindu has done so much to organise and consolidate
the movement as Mrs. Annie Besant, who in her Central Hindu
College at Benares, and her Theosophical Institution at Adyar,
near Madras, has openly proclaimed her faith in the superiority
of the whole Hindu system to the vaunted civilisation of the
West.”
Of the initiation of the National Congress she writes
in India: Bond or Free?'.
“ It was significant that, after the Theosophical Convention
at Adyar, in 1884, a number of the delegates and members went
182 t h e t r a il o f t h e serp en t
over to Madras and formed the organising committee of the
National Congress to-be, which met in Bombay in 1885, and
became the Voice of India; the national self-respect aroused by
revived pride in Hinduism, leading to the National Ideal of
Self-Government.”
Yet in India there are many peoples, many creeds besides
Hinduism, and many castes; how could such a Congress
claim to be the unified voice of all their opposing ideals,
religious and political ? She continues:
“ Under the influence of those who had made in 1884 the
scheme of the National Congress in Madras . . . the peasants
began to discuss their grievances and later to meet in conference
among themselves. . . . Thus was the seed in the villages sown
which sprang up as the agitation for Home Rule in 1915, when
Mr. Gandhi said of myself: *She has made Home Rule a mantram
in every cottage.' . . . India’s intelligentsia worked to educate
their countrymen, and the annual meetings of the National Con­
gress, reported in the Indian Press, were as the rain falling on the
hidden seed.”
And showing the power behind her movement she
writes:
“ Really, the awakening of India is not only a part of the
movement in Asia, stimulated by the aggressiveness of Western
peoples, but it is also part of the world movement towards
Democracy, which began for the West in the revolt of the
American Colonies against the rule of Britain, ending in 1776 in
the independence of the Great Republic of the West, and in the
French Revolution of 1789.”
As we have already shown, secret societies were
behind the French Revolution of 1789, and in Mme
Blavatsky’s book, Isis Unveiled, she gives a letter written
by Charles Sotheran, corresponding secretary of the
New York Liberal Club, high Mason and initiate of the
English Brotherhood of the Rosie Cross, who, writing
in January 1877, says:
“ In the last century the Illuminati taught ‘peace with the
cottage, war with the palace,’ throughout the length and breadth
of Europe. In the last century the United States was freed from
the tyranny of the mother country by the action of the Secret
Societies more than is commonly imagined. . . . ”
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 183
That this same power of secret societies was behind Mrs.
Besant she confirms herself in New India, 1929:
“ Try to perceive the Great Plan as a whole. . . . India is
the keynote, India is the centre of that great storm which shall
usher in a splendid Peace. . . . No true Theosophist and cer­
tainly no one who is working for the Inner Government of the
World will be careless of India’s welfare. . . . Co-Masonry has
been given to India that it may be a powerful organised force for
India’s service.”
At every opportunity Mrs. Besant decried the rule of
the British Raj, saying-: “ The masses of the Indian
people have been prosperous, free and happy, save during
the last hundred and sixty odd years, dating from the
time when the East India Company became a ruling
power down to the present day.” And yet as a leader
in The Morning Post, 22 September, 1933, said:
“ It is the justification of the British occupation that, whereas
before it began no invasion of India was ever stopped, since it
took place no invasion of India has ever succeeded. Thus the
happiness and the very lives of the toiling millions of Hindustan
rest upon that power which our complacent reformers are
labouring to withdraw.”
Lord Sydenham, speaking in the House of Lords,
24 October, 1917, said of Mrs. Besant:
“ She wrote a book which contained more reckless defiance
of facts than I have ever seen compressed into the same small
space, and in her paper New India, she said that ‘ India was a
perfect Paradise ’ for 5,000 years before our advent, that it had
become 4a perfect Hell ’ owing to the ‘ brutal British Bureau­
cracy.’ . . . Well might one of these judges point out that this
pernicious writing must tend to encourage assassination by re­
moving public detestation of such a crime. . .
And as Sir Charles Spencer, retired I.C.S., writing to
the Morning Post, 11 September, 1933, said:
4
4
. . . No sane Government can tolerate the presence of
anarchical bodies in its midst. Therefore, the only sound policy
is to treat the Bengalee terrorists as Government once treated
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
184
the Thugs. A special department should be formed for tracking
and hunting down these pests of societies, and it should be made
an offence, punishable with death, to belong to an organisation
whose creed is assassination of officials.”
For those who do not know the history of the Thugs,
the following brief account may be enlightening, showing
the real condition of India before the advent of the British,
giving the lie to Mrs. Besant’s mischievous statement.
According to C. W. Stewart’s introduction to the
1916 edition of Meadows Taylor’s Confessions of a
Thug, which was published in 1839, the Thugs were a
secret hereditary guild of murderers, who strangled and
plundered, under, they said, the protection of the goddess
Kalee, and these murders were regarded as a duty and
an act of worship. Each gang carried a sacred pickaxe,
the .original of which was said to be Kalee’s tooth, and
upon this pickaxe an oath was taken which involved
terrible penalties if broken. Kalee also gave her votaries
a rib for a knife and the hem of her robe as a strangling
cloth. The actual origin of Thuggee is unknown, but
Sleeman, in Rambles and Recollections, tells of a Thug
“ saint ” living in Delhi at the beginning of the four­
teenth century who possessed vast supplies of money.
He was regarded as the founder, and Thugs made pil­
grimages to his tomb. He came from Persia, where, it
has been suggested, he had been a disciple of “ the Old
Man of the Mountain,” the head of the assassins who
frequented the shores of the Caspian Sea about 1100.
Thuggee existed for at least five centuries in India, but
the Company’s Government only became aware of the
outrages in 1799, and it took thirty years to realise the
extent of these practices.
According to Meadows Taylor, so many Army men
disappeared on their way to and from their homes in
1810 that the Government issued a warning, and tracked
certain of the assassins down in 1812. It was not, how­
ever, until 1820, when “ Thuggee Sleeman ” was posted
in Sagar and Nerbudda territories, that the Government
recognised the Thugs to be a distinct criminal class
operating simultaneously throughout India. In 1829
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 185
special officers were appointed, a campaign against them
began, and many of the gangs were dispersed. In 1840
Sleeman issued a report with a Thug map; much of his
information was received through twenty Thugs or pro­
fessional assassins turned approvers, among others the
notorious Feringhea; their statements were verified by
the disinterment of the bodies.
This report speaks of gangs of Thugs who ranged
the highroads, and under the guise of friendship won the
confidence of unsuspecting travellers and, after accom­
panying them for several stages to some isolated spot or
bhil, murdered them by strangulation and plundered their
property. Meadows Taylor noted that outside villages
and towns the huts and houses of hermits, fakirs, and
religious mendicants were used by the Thugs, the fakirs
enticing the victims into their gardens or surrounding
groves on the plea of giving them rest and shelter.
The difficulty was to convict the murderers, as the
victims generally came from great distances, and rela­
tives and other witnesses would not travel so far to the
courts near which the murder took place. However,
separate courts were formed where each witness gave
evidence in his own neighbourhood; this proved a great
success. Many leaders and leading members of the old
gangs, however, remained at large, and as Sleeman said:
“ All these persons would return to their old trade and
teach it to their sons or needy and dissolute neighbours,
and thus reorganise their gangs should our pressure be
relaxed.” From 1831 to 1837, of these gangs 1,059
were transported to Penang, 412 were hanged, 87 im­
prisoned for life, and 483 turned approvers.
The whole matter was warmly taken up by the then
Governor-General, Lord William Bentinck, and the
Supreme Council, and highly intelligent officers were
appointed to superintend the execution of the measures
for the suppression of Thuggee. The tracking down
was continued until i860, and up to 1904 there was a
Superintendent of Thuggee and Dacoity, after which
date it was entrusted to the Central Criminal Intelligence
Department.
i86 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
We might well ask ourselves, do the germs of
Thuggee still exist ready to be brought to life by Soviet
agents and National Congressmen in order to further
their ambitious political dreams? The position was very
clearly stated by Mr. Ashmead Bartlett in the Daily
Telegraph, 20 October, 1930, and seems still to hold good:
“ The situation is infinitely graver than is generally appre­
ciated, and it is rapidly developing into a gigantic race conflict.
. . . The Hindu urban intelligentsia are determined to create a
complete Hindu ‘ Raj/ clearing the British officials, civil and
military, out of the country, confiscating British commercial,
interests, and repudiating public debts contracted under British
rule. . . . Afghanistan and Soviet Russia would surely join in
the general break up . . . once our stranglehold on the North-West
Frontier ceases to exist.”
In September 1913 a small band of Mrs. Besant’s
workers created the group known as “ The Brothers of
Service ” ; they were to seek freedom under the British
Crown, and among other things were asked to promise:
to promote union among the workers in the fields of
spiritual, educational, social, and political progress,
under the headship and direction of the Indian National
Congress. On 2 January, 1914, the campaign for Home
Rule was definitely begun, when the weekly review, The
Commonweal, was launched, in which was the declara­
tion:
“ In Political Reform we aim at the building up of complete
Self-government, from Village Councils through District and
Municipal Boards and Provincial Legislative Assemblies, to a
National Parliament, equal in its powers to the legislative bodies
of the Self-governing Colonies. . . .”
In the spring of 1914 Mrs. Besant went to England
to try to form an Indian Party in Parliament; failing in
this, she held a meeting in Queen’s Hall, London, with
Earl Brassey in the chair, to form an auxiliary Home
Rule League for India, and this materialised in 1915.
On her return to India she bought a daily paper, pub­
lished 14 July, 1914, renaming it New India. In 1917,
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 187
after her internment in Ootacamund, she, already Home
Rule President, was elected President of the National
Congress. In February 1919, the Home Rule League
split because Gandhi started “ passive resistance ” against
the Rowlatt Act. That was stopped, only to be followed
by his Non-Co-operation movement, April 1920; Gandhi
could not control his followers.
At Delhi, 1920, the National Congress carried a
resolution demanding: (1) that the principle of Self-
determination should be applied to India; (2) the removal
of all hindrances to free discussion; (3) an Act of
Parliament establishing complete responsible govern­
ment in India, and that in the reconstruction of Imperial
policy, (4) India should be placed on an equality with
the Self-governing Dominions. As Mrs. Besant wrote:
“ The second point has been almost carried out; the third
and fourth have not. But the Commonwealth of India Bill will
carry them out when it becomes an Act. It has been delayed by
the breaking up of political parties caused by the Non-Co-opera-
tion movement, now dead [1926].”
In Bombay, 28 August, 1924, she said to Sir Michael
O’Dwyer:
“. . . I think we may fairly say we have made India a burn­
ing question in the political life of England. We found the
Labour Party entirely with us. . . .”
She therefore looked to the Labour Party to put
through the Commonwealth of India Bill. In February
1922, the practical framing of the proposed Constitution
for India by Indians was initiated in a discussion in the
Political Section of the 1921 Club, Madras, on the method
of winning Swaraj. The draft was submitted to the
Convention sitting at Cawnpore, April 1925, and finally
to a Drafting Committee in Madras, consisting of the
Hon. Mr. C. P. Ramaswami Alyar, Messrs. Shiva Rao,
Sri Ram, Yadunandan Prasad, and Dr. Annie Besant,
•who were to see it through the press and publish it in
the name of the Convention. In 1925 it was sent to
England and was laid before leading members of the
Labour Party, backed by them, read a first time in the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
188
House of Commons, and ordered to be printed. It then
went before the Executive Committee of the Parliamen­
tary Labour Party, and finally passed unanimously. It
thus passed into the hands of the future Labour Govern­
ment, and was put on the list of Bills balloted for as an
official measure.
The following- are a few points of this Common­
wealth of India Bill as given by Mrs. Besant in the
Appendix of her book India: Bond or Free?, 1926, from
which we have drawn all the above data concerning the
National Congress, etc.:
“ India will be placed on an equal footing with the Self-
governing Dominions, sharing their responsibilities and their
privileges. . . . ‘ Parliament ’ shall mean only the Parliament of
the Commonwealth of India. . . . Defence: There will be a
Defence Commission with a majority of Indians thereon, every
five years appointed by the Viceroy in consultation with his
Cabinet. . . . No revenue of India may be spent on any branch
of Defence Forces in which Indians are ineligible for holding
commissioned rank. As soon as the Commission recommends
favourably, Parliament may pass an Act to undertake the full
responsibility of Defence. Executive: There will be a Cabinet
in the Government of India consisting of the Prime Minister and
not less than seven Ministers of State, who will be collectively
responsible for the administration of the Commonwealth. The
Prime Minister will be appointed by the Viceroy, and the other
Ministers on the nomination of the Prime Minister. The Viceroy
will be temporarily in charge of the Defence Forces. In all
matters except Defence the Viceroy will act only upon the advice
of the Cabinet. . . . Secretary of State: The powers and func­
tions of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State in
Council over the revenues and the administration of India will be
transferred to the Commonwealth Executive. . . . Alteration of
the Constitution: Parliament will have power to alter the Con­
stitution. . . .”
According to the Chicago Tribune, 24 August, 1929:
“ Dr. Besant, Theosophical leader, came to Chicago for the world
congress of Theoscphists . . . in the Stevens Hotel. Dr. Besant
has spent yeari ip India teaching Theosophy [and incidentally
politics!]. Sh& said that recently she had been trying to help
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 189
India obtain political measures by which the country may throw
off the ‘ yoke of England . . . if a revolt, she said, were to flare
up, the English, with their bombs from the air and their land and
water machines of war, would simply cut them down like grain
before a scythe.’ "
In his Life of Annie Besant, 1929, Geoffrey West
(p. 249) speaks of the meeting held in Queen’s Hall,
London, 23 July, 1924, in honour of Mrs. Besant’s fifty
years of public work.
“ Among the speakers were George Lansbury, Ben Tillett,
Ben Turner, Margaret Bondfield, Mrs. Pethick Lawrence, and
John Scurr; messages were read from Lord Haldane, Ramsay
MacDonald, Philip Snowden, and Bernard Shaw and others paid
tribute in print to her work, as Socialist, politician, reformer,
educationalist, and religious teacher. . . .”
And her work in every aspect was ruled and regu­
lated by her “ Masters ” and the mysterious “ Inner
Government of the World,” not for the good of India,
but for the fulfilment of their world schemes.
And what do her followers say to-day? In The
Morning Post, 16 September, 1933, we read:
“ At its Lahore session in January 1930, the Congress passed
two resolutions: one for establishing Indian independence by
severing all connection with Great Britain, and another repudiat­
ing India’s public debts, especially to the British bondholders.
Since 1930 independence has remained the creed of the Congress,
and the repudiation of debts is still one of the most important
items in the Congress programme.”
And as Gandhi said in writing to Jawaharlal Nehru:
“. . . The Princes must surrender much of their power and
become popular representatives of the people. . . . Nationalism
must be consistent with progressive internationalism, so we must
range ourselves with the progressive forces of the world.”
According to Mrs. Besant: “ Shaping their aspira­
tions towards Nationhood as an integral part of the
Coming World Empire.”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Everywhere we see the spread of this principle of
universality replacing real patriotism, individual and
national initiative by a flaccid international Pacifism,
Socialism, unification of all peoples! As another example
we have the Threefold Movement. Its first European
meeting was held in the City Temple, July 1927, although
its earliest movement, “ The Union of the East and the
West,” was initiated some twenty years ago. The
London Committee included members of the Socialist
and Labour Party, International Peace Movement, Free
Religious Movements, and the Theosophical Society.
At their meeting, 17 July, 1930, their subject was,
“ World Unity as seen by the representatives of eight
religions and seven countries.” Their “ Anthem of the
Universal ” ran: “ One Cosmic Brotherhood. . . . Race,
colour, creed and caste fade in a dreamy past. . . all life
is one.” Bahaism, Buddhism, Shintoism, Christian,
Hindu, and Jew were all represented, and the Jew gave
the cabalistic key in saying: “ Religion was the symbol
by which we endeavoured to understand Nature." Their
aim was realisation of Peace and Brotherhood to bring
about a World Commonwealth. The mainspring of the
movement, Charles Frederick Weller, an American,
spoke of the Parliament of Religions held in Chicago
in 1893 and another proposed for 1933.
In September 1893, on the occasion of the Chicago
Exhibition, there was held the famous “ Parliament of
Religions,” to which all religions or pseudo-religions
were invited to send delegates. Among those present
were Swami Vivekananda, who perverted the Hindu
doctrine of the Vedanta under pretext of adapting it to
Western mentality. He had successes in America and
Australia, and was followed by still more daring adapters,
such as “ the ineffable Swami Yogananda.” Mrs. Besant
represented Theosophy, and she was accompanied by
Chakravarti, founder of the Yoga Samaj, who was a
Mongolian more or less Hinduised, and was a remark­
able hypnotist, whilst Mrs. Besant was said to be a good
subject.
Also there was Dharmapala, a Buddhist represent-
190
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 191
ing the Maha Bodbi Santaj of Colombo, Ceylon (Society
of Great Wisdom). Another was Dr. J. D. Buck, one
of the most active members of what is now called the
Sadol Movement in America. Most of the other dele­
gates represented innumerable Protestant sects and
various heterogeneous elements. From this an attempt
was made to arrange another, “ The Congress of
Humanity,” to be held in Paris in 1900, representing all
religions and seekers having as a common aim the pro­
gress of humanity, preparing for future unity and peace
on earth. Nothing eventuated until 1913, when it met
under the name of “ Congress of Religious Progress,”
and there Edouard Schure represented Dr. Steiner’s
movement, a secession from Mrs. Besant.
The Threefold Movement is the Union of the East and
West; League of Neighbours; and Fellowship of Faiths.
It stands for the realisation of peace and brotherhood, to
hasten the coming of the Commonwealth of the World,
to live now and here in the Kingdom (or democracy)
of God. The Bahai Movement, which is a strong sup­
porter of the above, is said to unite the streams of
Judaism, Christianity, and Islamism, like the Druses.
They also claim that their Prophet foreshadowed the
League of Nations, a supreme tribunal as follows:
“ About fifty years ago Baha'u'llah commanded the people
to establish universal peace, and summoned all the nations to ‘ the
divine banquet of international arbitration' so that the questions
of boundaries, of national honour, and property, and of vital
interests between nations, might be decided by an arbitral court of
justice.”
To repeat what the Archives-israelites wrote in
1861:
" L ’Alliance-israMite-universeUe . . . addresses itself to all
religions. . . . It desires to penetrate into all religions as it has
penetrated into all countries. How many nations have disap­
peared ! How many religions will in turn vanish! Israel will not
cease to exist . . . the religion of Israel will not perish; it is the
unity of God.”
The second unit of this Threefold Movement, the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
192
“ League of Neighbours,” was founded in the U.S.A.
in 1920, by Charles Frederick Weller, a Socialist writer,
and its aim is to develop through neighbourly service the
new consciousness of human unity. Nevertheless, it was
later denied the use of high schools in New York, because
of its subversive connections. It was endorsed by
President Wilson, President Harding, Rabbi Wise, and
many well-known Socialists. We know the part taken
both by President Wilson anl Rabbi Wise in the estab­
lishment of the League of Nations.
It is interesting to note what the Jewish writer,
Dr. Alfred Nossig, wrote of Socialism and the League
of Nations in his book Integrates Judentum:
“ The modern Socialist Movement is in great part a work of
the Jews, who impress on it the mark of their brains; it was they
who took a preponderating part in the directing of the first
Socialist republic, although the controlling Jewish Socialists were
mostly far from Judaism. . . . The present world Socialism
forms the first step of the accomplishment of Mosaism, the start
of the realisation of the future state of the world announced by
our prophets. It is not till there shall be a League of Nations; it
is not till its allied armies shall be employed in an effective manner
for the protection of the feeble that we can hope that the Jews
will be able to develop without impediment in Palestine, their
national State; and equally it is only a League of Nations pene­
trated with the Socialist spirit that will render possible for us the
enjoyment of our international necessities as well as our national
ones. . . .”
As we know, Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry was derived
from the Mixed Masonry founded in France by Maria
Deraismes, supported by Dr. Georges Martin, and which
was officially launched in 1894 as the Droit Humain.
Maria Deraismes had been initiated in 1882, contrary
to the constitutions, by the Lodge Les Libres Penseurs
of Pecq, for which unconstitutional act the Lodge was
put into abeyance and the initiation declared null by the
Grande Loge Symbolique Ecossaise.
In Etude Abregee de la Franc-magonnerie mixte
et de son organisation the French Mason, Dr. Georges
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 193
Martin, gives a report of a first initiation of several
women, 14 March, 1893. They
“ met at 45 rue de Sevres, to constitute a new Masonic obedience
in France, under the Presidency of Sister Maria Deraismes, who
was initiated Freemason, 14 January, 1882, at the Lodge Sym-
bolique Ecossaise Mixte, Les Libres Penseurs, de l’Or . . . du
Pecq (Seine et Oise). F.\ Georges Martin, who assisted at the
Masonic initiation of Sister Maria Deraismes at the Lodge Les
Libres Penseurs, was present, and desired to help her with his
counsels in the creation of the new Masonic Obedience which this
Sister would found in France a l’Or . . . de Paris.”
One of the signed promises required from the postulant
was: “ I promise to reveal nothing whatsoever of the
Masonic secrets entrusted to me.”
He further tells us:
“ Mixed Masonry has created no new Rite. What dis­
tinguishes it from all others is that in place of admitting men only,
women are equally admitted; it teaches the methods of recogni­
tion of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, such as were
adopted by the Grand Constitutions of 1 May, 1786, and conse­
crated by the Universal Convent which met at Lausanne, 22
September, 1875.”
Further, he says that with most Masonic powers Mixed
Masonry has no relations, the brothers and sisters meet
regularly under charter from the Supreme Conseil
Universal Mixte, constituted in Paris, n May, 1899.
Albert Lantoine informs us that twice attempts were
made to get women recognised by the Grand Orient
of France: at the Convent of the Grand Orient, 1900,
the voting was 93 for it and 140 against it; in 1901,
there were 104 for and 134 against it. According to
Lantoine, Dr. Martin was delighted, as complete victory
would have ruined his plans, as he wanted to maintain
the Droit Humain, sincerely believing that the penetra­
tion of women into Masonry risked killing it! whilst
an obedience apart, but recognised as regular, would
consolidate it without compromising it. It was not until
1920 that the General Assembly of the Grand Orient
13
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
of France recognised the Droit Humain, admitting the
men into its lodges, but still excluding the women.
At first the Droit Humain only practised three
degrees, but later introduced the 33 degrees of Scottish
Rite. Mixed Masonry was organised .according to the
general rules of exclusively masculine Freemasonry.
There were the four Masonries: (1) Blue Masonry—
1 to 3 degrees; (2) Red Masonry, the Chapters of the
Knights Rose-Croix—4 to 18 degrees; (3) Black
Masonry, the Areopagi of the Knights of Kadosch—
19 to 30 degrees; (4) White Masonry, Administrative
—3L 32>33 degrees. The Supreme Conseil was the
keystone of this Masonry and was recruited only from
among the Grand Inspectors-General of the 33rd degree.
This Masonry spread in England, Holland, Switzer­
land, and the United States, and on 26 September, 1902,
the first English Lodge was formed in London under
the name of Human Duty. In this Mrs. Besant was
initiated, and rose rapidly to the highest degrees and
offices. Yarker writes in his book, The Arcane Schools,
1909:
“ It may be mentioned here that, January 1903, Mrs. Annie
Besant established in London a S.G.C., 33rd degree, conferring
all degrees from the 1st to the 33rd indiscriminately upon Men
and Women; she received her constitution from India, a S.G.C.
which had its authority from a dissension in the S.G.C. of the 33rd
degree for France, Tilly’s constitution. It has added only to the
Ritual a *Dharma ’ Lecture, which compares Masonry with secret
societies of India and takes the name of Co-Masonry.”
She founded the Lodge at Adyar, in India, under
the name of Rising Sun\ became Vice-president of the
Supreme Conseil in France, and a national delegate for
Britain and her dependencies. She then organised the
Co-Masonry, and having obtained certain concessions
from the Supreme Conseil, she, under pretext of adapta­
tion to Anglo-Saxon mentality, made statutes distinctly
different from those customary in France. Among
others she retained the use of the volume of the Scrip­
tures in the lodges; also the formula, “ To the Glory
194
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 195
of the Great Architect of the Universe,” which had been
suppressed by the Grand Orient in 1877 and replaced
in French Mixed Masonry by “ To the Glory of
Humanity.” In 1913 a Grand Council was appointed
as head of British Co-Masonry, with Mrs. Besant as
Grand Master, assisted by Ursula Bright, James L.
Wedgwood as Grand Secretary, and Francesca Arun-
dale as representative for India. On 21 September,
1909, Mrs. Besant installed the Lodge of Chicago.
In France the Theosophists apparently soon had an
assured preponderance, and hoped in time that London
would become the central organism of Co-Masonry
Universal. On 19 February, 1922, an alliance between
the Grand Orient and Co-Masonry was celebrated in
the Grand Temple of the Droit Humain in Paris, but
this link was broken by a decision of the Council of the
Grand Orient, 13 September, 1930, according to the
Convent of Grand Orient of France, 1930. Mrs. Besant,
before she died, was ire Lieut. G. Commandeur du
Supreme Conseil Mixte Internationale du Droit Humain.
As their “ World Teacher,” Krishnamurti, taught
“ There is no God but yourself,” deification was the aim
of Co-Masonry. According to Leadbeater, in The
Hidden Life in Freemasonry, the aim of Freemasonry
is to vivify the force centres in man and awaken the
inner senses. Speaking of these force or nerve centres,
he says:
“ When quite undeveloped they appear as small circles about
two inches in diameter, glowing dully in the ordinary man, but
when awakened and vivified they appear as blazing coruscating
saucers much increased in size. . . . The seven centres . . . are:
(1) the base of the spine; (2) the spleen; (3) the navel or solar
plexus; (4) the heart; (5) the throat; (6) the space between
the eyes; (7) the top of the head. . . . When at all in action
these centres show signs of rapid rotation, and into each of these
centres rushes a force from the higher world (that is, the universal
life force which illuminises and is said to awaken the inner
senses. It is so-called deification).”
In his Results of Initiation, Steiner, speaking of
these same centres or chakras, to develop which is the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
aim of his Occult Science, says: “When developed
permits of intercourse with beings of higher worlds
. . . white occultists.” No doubt the Great White
Brotherhood, the Inner Government of all Illuminised
and Theosophical movements. In their official organ,
Freemasonry Universal, Winter Solstice, 1929, the Co-
Masons say:
“ The Holy Royal Arch signifies the awakening of the
Kundalini. . . . Freemasonry (exoteric) is the outer shell from
which much secret knowledge has been withdrawn. . . . Co-
Masonry is leading us to the Light. . . . Through our own
intuition [we] make the great discovery of Ourselves. . . . The
Quest of the Hidden God. . .
They look upon the Holy Royal Arch as occult and
mystical, “ stimulating and arousing the Fire (kunda­
lini) and leading to the discovery of the Divinity
within us.” Again the cabalistic deified man. Accord­
ing to the Mason, W. L. Wilmshurst, in The Masonic
Initiation, who writes like an Illuminatus, “ Royal Arch
Masonry was introduced into England in 1778 by a
Jewish Brother, Moses Michael Hayes.”
Here appears to be the reason why Co-Masonry is
to be a force for the so-called service of India, preparing
illuminised tools for the “ Inner Government of the
World’s ” Great Plan; and “ the Masters have assured
her (Mrs. Besant) that Dominion Status for India is
part of the Great Plan, and she knows that she will not
pass away until that freedom is accomplished ”
(Theosophist, October 1928).
The election of Dr. George Sydney Arundale, June
1934, took place at the Blavatsky Hall, Madras, as Presi­
dent of the Theosophical Society, in succession to the
late Dr. Annie Besant, who passed away before the fate
of India was decided. He was born in Surrey fifty-five
years ago, and was from boyhood under Leadbeater’s
influence. He was headmaster of the Central Hindu
College at Benares, and on 11 January, 1911, he founded
the Order of the Rising Sun, which a few months later
was organised as the Order of the Star in the East, with
1 9 6
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 1 9 7
Krishnamurti as head and Mrs. Besant as Protector.
Krishnamurti was to be prepared for the manifestation
of “ Lord Maitreya,” variously known, according to the
Theosophists, as: Orpheus, Hermes, Trismegistus,
Vyasa, Krishna, Buddha, Zoroaster, and even Christ/’
Leadbeater and Arundale were his teachers. In 1913
the latter, as Principal of the College, in a circular letter
addressed to a group of teachers and boys, which was
published in the Allahabad Leader, 13 June, expressed
unqualified devotion to Mrs. Besant as one about to
become one of the greatest rulers of the world of Gods
and men. It was then publicly alleged that the College
was not Hindu, but Theosophical. Arundale and some
of the teachers and boys resigned in a body, and the
Board of Trustees handed the College over to a Com­
mittee of the projected Hindu University.
Arundale was also one of those interned during the
War along with Mrs. Besant, in Ootacamund, November
1917. In December 1916, Mrs. Besant’s Home Rule
League had been endorsed at Lucknow by the Congress
and the Muslim League, and she said: “ I go into
enforced silence and imprisonment because I love India
and have striven to arouse her before it was too late. I
am old, but I believe that I shall see India win Home
Rule before I die.” As Bishop Arundale, of the Liberal
Catholic Church, he was one of the twelve apostles,
including his wife, Rukmini Devi, a high-caste Hindu
woman, chosen for the “ World Teacher.” He has also
held many services in London. Further, in Freemasonry
Universal, the official organ of Co-Masonry, Part 3,
1929, we read: Eastern Administration Grand Secre­
tary, The V. Ills. Bro. G. S. Arundale, 33rd degree,
Adyar, Madras, India (including Burma).
From this Co-Masonry there have been two schisms
at least: one in 1908, when a number of members, who
objected to the introduction of Eastern occultism into
Masonry, formed themselves into a separate body
under the name •of “ Ancient Masonry,” working only
the Craft degrees according to the Grand Lodge of Eng­
land. This group was for long penetrated by the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
198
influence and illuminism of the Stella Matutina and the
R.R. et A.C., and as late as 1923-24 not only its Grand
Master, Mrs. H------, but several of its members were
advanced adepts of that Order and of that of Steiner.
From these “ Ancient Masons,” in turn, a further seces­
sion took place, apparently about 1914, adopting the
name of “ Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Free­
masons,” exclusively for women and now established at
St. Ermins, Westminster. A much later breakaway
from Mrs. Besant’s Co-Masonry was a group led by
Miss Bothwell Gosse, who objected to the Co-Masonic
innovations. Eventually she formed the group “ Ancient
and Accepted Masonry ” for Men and Women,
apparently working the thirty-three degrees. In her
booklet on The Ancient and Accepted Rite, she sums up
its supposed origins:
“ Thus we find that the nucleus of this Rite arose in France;
it was taken to America by Stephen Morin and established there;
Frederick the Great re-organised it and gave it a Constitution; it
was lost to Europe by the French Revolution; it was brought
back to France by de Grasse-Tilly and reconstituted in Paris;
from thence it has spread over the whole world.”
As we have shown, most Grand Lodges, except the
English Grand Lodge, are represented in the A.M.I.,
that subversive Association magonnique Internationale,
and Georges Lo'ic, in the R.I.S.S., 1 March, 1933, stated:
“ The Supreme Councils are all issues of the Supreme
Council founded, 31 March, 1801, at Charleston by the
Jews Dalcho and Mitchell and by Comte de Grasse-
Tilly.”
Much controversy has, from time to ti(
me, raged
round some of these names; documents and proofs, if
not entirely absent, are somewhat rare, leaving in the
thoughtful mind a sense of uncertainty and even doubt.
The wfell-known French Grand Lodge Masonic authority,
Albert Lantoine, is perhaps wise when concluding in his
book, La Franc-magonnerie che2 elle, 1927:
“ In Masonry one must accept such a reasonable opinion as
that of the balanced-minded Reghellini de Schio, who, living at the
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 199
moment when the discussions on Masonic Supremacy were so
heated, wrote: *If one would speak with documents in hand, what
Rite or what Supreme Chief of the Order of that Rite could go
back to a non-equivocal origin of its power? What Mason, what
Rite even, holds the guiding thread to free himself from the
labyrinth of all these origins? ’ ”
We read in the Daily Telegraph, 26 September,
1933, that the “ Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Free­
masons,” for women alone, a group which seceded from
the “ Ancient Masons ” in 1914, had removed to new
headquarters at St. Ermins, Westminster. The opening
and dedication ceremony was conducted by the Grand
Master, Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell Reid, who, along with
Mrs. Seton Challen, founded the secession; if one might
so express it, she was assisted by Mrs. Seton Challen,
Deputy Grand Master, and Mrs. Piers Dyer, the Pro­
vincial Grand Master. More than 200 members attended
from many parts of the country. Other members of the
Fraternity were Mrs. Messervy, Mrs. Bank Martin,
Mrs. Crawford Munro, and Miss Lata Coventry. They
worked the Craft degrees, the Holy Royal Arch, and
hoped later to work the Rose-Croix. Its official organ
is The Ray. Mrs. Boswell Reid died 21 November, 1933,
and was succeeded by Mrs. Seton Challen. The former
held the titles; the Most Worshipful the Grand
Master; the Most Excellent Supreme Grand Zerub-
babel; the Most Worshipful Grand Master Mark
Masonry.
According to the R.I.S.S., 1 May, 1934, the
Occultist Masonic authority F.‘. Oswald Wirth, wrote a
curious article in Le Symbolisme. He evoked the
“ Honourable Fraternity of Ancient Freemasons ” in
England. The English women who are not afraid to
copy the men have adopted “ masculine rites, customs,
regulations,'insignia and even titles. . . . They work
impeccably like men in their own Temple at Westminster,
and have economic advantages over the men, as witness
the sobriety of their ritualistic feasts.” He concludes
that the initiation of the woman is more subtle than that
of the man, and says;
200 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
“ Women, learn to be purely and emphatically feminine. So
long as you are led by us you will fail in your mission, which is
to precede us on the moral road and the realisation of good. You
are the priestesses of the cult which Humanity awaits. To
prepare you for your civilising work you must have a real
initiation developing your feminine nature, therefore entirely
contrary to a parody of the masculine rites.'’
In Americanism, the New Order of the Ages, it
says: “ In this Age woman will rise to her rightful place
as the intuitive spiritual (psychic) teacher of the race
and Queen of the home . . . nor will she usurp male pre­
rogative, but will make the earth a heavenly dwelling-
place.” In other words, she is to be the passive instru­
ment or medium through which the mysterious power
behind Masonry rules and directs the world, the man
will actively carry out the directions! As Oswald Wirth
wrote:
“ Many Masons imagine they understand Masonry when they
do not even suspect the existence of its mysteries and its
esotericism ” (Le Lime de Vapprenti).
Again, he explains:
“ Our two Pillars besides are connected with the ancient cult
of generation which was the most universal manifestation of
primitive humanity. . . . All that relates to generation remained
sacred so long as the religions of life prevailed whose ideal is
earthly, but which were supplanted by the religions of death
ready to promise happiness beyond the tomb. Now Masonry
proceeds from the cults of life whose symbols it has preserved ”
{Le Lime du compagnon).
Further:
“ Freemasonry takes great care not to define the Grand
Architect, and leaves to each of its adepts full latitude to form
an idea of it conformable to his faith or philosophy ” {L’Ideal
initiatique).
Moreover:
“ Let us guard ourselves, therefore, from yielding to that
idleness of mind which confounds the Grand Architect of initiates
with the God of believers ” {Le Lime du maitre).
THEOSOPHY AND INDIA. CO-MASONRY 201
To take another, the Very Powerful Sovereign Grand
Commander Brother Jean Marie Raymond: “ We have
desired to crystallise immortality in the symbol of the
Grand Architect of the Universe, a kind of emblem of
Cosmic Unity, supreme universal intelligence, which is
nothing more than Life itself.” Therefore like the
Cabala, which is one of its bases, Masonry is pantheistic
and its aim is to illuminate or deify man by means of
astral or cosmic intoxication.
Mrs. Besant’s “ God ” was pantheistic, this life-
force in all nature, and her Christ was this astral force
which illuminises; the same ideas are the bases of Theo­
sophy, Rose-Croix, Masonry, and all Yoga.
And what has been the attitude of the Grand Lodge
of England to women in Masonry? (i) According to
Albert Lantoine, the Anderson Constitution, 1723, says:
“ Slaves, women, immoral and dishonoured persons
cannot be admitted, but only men of good reputation.”
(2) On 3 September, 1919, the Grand Lodge Board of
General Purposes issued the following: . . All such
bodies which admit women to membership are clandestine
and irregular; it is necessary to caution brothers against
being inadvertently led to violate their Obligation by
becoming members of them or attending their meet­
ings. . . (3) The United Grand Lodge of England
codified, 4 September, 1929, eight conditions for recog­
nition of Masonic obediences throughout the world, one
being: that the members of the Grand Lodge, as well as
those of individual lodges, must be exclusively men,
and that the obedience holds no relations of any kind
whatsoever with mixed lodges, where the bodies admit
women among their members (An. Mag. Uni., 1930).
(4) The Morning Post, 7 June, 1934, wrote:
“ The business before the meeting of the United Grand Lodge,
in' London, yesterday, included a motion for the exclusion of a
brother who, it was reported, had attended meetings of an
' irregular ’ body known as Co-Masons, which admitted women
. . . having refused to take notice of a warning as to the probable
result of his action, his expulsion had to be recommended, and
Grand Lodge unanimously, and without discussion, accepted the
202 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
motion. The Duke of Connaught, Grand Master, presided at the
meeting, and his presence was greatly appreciated by the 1,800
brethren who were present.”
Finally, as Oswald Wirth writes:
“ To become as Divinity, such was the aim of the Ancient
Mysteries. . . . To-day the programme of Initiation has not
changed.”
CHAPTER IX
RUDOLF STEINER AND ANTHROPOSOPHY
In a leading article, 14 September, 1922, the Patriot
warns its readers against “ The Subterranean War ”
and writes:
” For those who desire to learn we publish to-day the first of
a series of articles by ‘ G.G.’ (or ‘ Dargon’), a writer who has
made a study of secret societies. The purpose of ‘ The Anatomy
of Revolution' is not to take the reader deeply into any part of
the subject, but to give a general and historical view of that com­
plex of subversive organisation which is working for the destruc­
tion of Christianity, of Civilisation, and of the British Empire.
The writer, who is a true Briton and a good patriot, has one
purpose only—to warn the British public of the unsuspected
danger which, as he believes and we believe also, imminently
threatens it.”
To quote G.G.:
“ Here we must note that there has always been among the
Arcane societies a dual movement—on the one hand mystical, on
the other political. Such esoteric bodies as the Fraternity of the
Rosy-Cross, the Martinists, the Swedenborgians, and Theosophists
have consisted no doubt largely of harmless enthusiasts to whom
mysticism or magic appealed. But they have also been used, as
the cover for political intrigue, and as a net wherein to catch, test,
and select persons who could be used for subversive ends. For
it is one of the methods of the revolutionary directorate to use,
wherever possible, harmless bodies as their cloak, and innocent
people as their unconscious agents. . . .
“ I may refer briefly to the existence of an offshoot of the
Theosophical Society, known as the Anthroposophical Society.
This was formed as the result of a schism in the ranks of the
Theosophists, by a man of Jewish birth who was connected
with one of the modem branches of the Carbonari. Not only
so, but in association with. another Theosophist he is engaged
in organising certain singular commercial undertakings not un-
203
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
connected with Communist propaganda; almost precisely in the
manner in which ‘ Count St. Germain ’ organised his dyeworks
and other commercial ventures with a like purpose. And this
queer business group has its connections with the Irish Republican
movement . . . and also with another mysterious group which
was founded by Jewish ‘ Intellectuals ’ in France about four years
ago (about 1918), and which includes in its membership many
well-known politicians, scientists, university professors, and
literary men in France, Germany, America, and England. It is a
secret society . . . although nominally a *Right Wing ’ society, it
is in direct touch with members of the Soviet Government
Russia. . .
We have from time to time written of Dr. Rudolf
Steiner’s gnostic teachings and political activities. We
now give a short summary of Edouard Schure’s intro-
duction to his translation of Steiner’s book Mystere
Chretien et les Mysteres Antiques, 1908. Schure con­
sidered Steiner’s teaching most luminous—it was so-
called Christian Illuminism—but much later left him
because of his political activities, of which he did not
approve. Later again, he returned to the fold. Our
interest in this sketch of Steiner’s life is that it shows
how, from early years, he was watched, astrally pre­
pared, and directed by some mysterious Master and
initiator whose name and mission are not revealed.
According to Schure, who was a Jew, Steiner was
born in Upper Austria in 1861, and his youth was spent
on the confines of Styria, the Carpathians, and Hun­
gary. At the age of fifteen he made the acquaintance
of a learned botanist who “ had the gift of seeing the
vital principle of the plants, their etheric bodies, and what
occultists call the elementals of the vegetable world.”
His calm, coldly scientific conversation only further
excited the curiosity of the young man. “ Steiner knew
later that this strange man was an envoy from the
Master, whom he did not yet know, but who was to
become his real initiator, and who already supervised
him from afar.” From his talks with the botanist he
was soon convinced that the basis of the “ Great Uni­
versal ” was the double current which constitutes the
204
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 0 $
movement of the world—the flux and reflux of the
universal life-force, this occult and astral current which
is the great propeller of life, with its hierarchy of powers.
From the age of eighteen Steiner felt the double current:
“ He had from that time the irrefutable sensation of
occult powers who acted behind and through him to
direct him. He listened to this force and followed its
warnings, because he felt himself profoundly in accord
with it.”
When nineteen he met his Master, for so long
sensed, who was one of those powerful men who live
unknown to the world in order to accomplish a mission;
ostensibly they do not act upon human events. Incog­
nito is the condition of their strength, making their
action only more efficacious, “ For they arouse, prepare,
and direct those who act in the public eye.” And
Steiner’s mission, according to himself, was: “ To link
together Science and Religion. Bring God into Science,
and Nature into Religion, and so fecundate anew Art
and Life.” His Master was eminently a spiritual male
as opposed to Steiner’s more feminine sensibilities; he
was a formidable dominator, for whom individuals
scarcely existed. He spared neither himself nor others,
his will was like a bullet from a gun which went straight
to its aim, and swept all from its path.
Such was the powerful mind which dominated and
used Steiner as a mere automaton, pulling the strings
as his terrible ambitions required. For Steiner
1881 to 1891 was a period of study and preparation at
Vienna; from 1891 to 1901 a time of struggle and
combat at Weimar; from 1901 to 1907 a time of action
and organisation at Berlin. About 1890 Steiner said:
“ The occult powers who were directing me obliged me
imperceptibly to penetrate into the then current ideas of
spiritualists.” He came in touch with Nietzsche and
Haeckel, who oriented him intellectually. As Schure
said: “ He had the presentiment that in the incontestable
discoveries of the naturalist he would find the surest basis
of evolutionary spiritualism and rational Theosophy.”
Steiner, therefore, entered into contemporary materi-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
206
alism, and armed himself for his mission; in 1902 he
found his battle-ground and support in the Theosophical
Society, and became Secretary-General of the German
section. In 1913 he left Mrs. Besant because of the
Alcyone case, and founded the Anthroposophical Society.
As Schure wrote:
“ By his first Master and by the Fraternity to which he was
associated, Steiner belonged to another school of occultism, that
is, to Western esoteric Christianity and more especially Rosicrucian
initiation. . . . The tradition of esoteric Christianity, properly
speaking, is directly and uninterruptedly attached to the famous
and mysterious Manes, founder of Manichaeism, who lived in
Persia in the fourth century.”
Brought up by Magi, Manes became Christian
(Gnostic); his doctrine was: (1) the Master Jesus,
prophet of Nazareth, was only the organ and interpreter
of the Christ, who was the “ arcanum of the planetary
Word ”—Solar manifestation; (2) he taught reincarna­
tion and the numerous ascending (planetary) existences
of the human soul; (3) what was called “ evil ” was only
a necessary ingredient in the general economy of the
world, a stimulant, a ferment of universal evolution!
Manes’s disciples spread to Palestine, Greece, Italy,
Gaul, Scythia, the Danube, and Africa. His doctrine
was for centuries propagated by oral tradition, often
under different names, Schure writes, such as the
Cathari, Albigenses, the Templars, and the Brothers of
Saint John of Jerusalem. In the fifteenth century
esoteric Christianity, inspired by the same tradition, be­
came more laic and scientific under the influence of the
Cabala and Alchemy, and it was about then that Chris­
tian Rosenkreutz founded the Order of the Rose-Croix.
Rudolf Steiner as a. Rose-Croix practised and taught
Western occultism as opposed to Eastern. He did not
believe in the annihilation of the body by asceticism—it
must be trained and become as a magnet attracting and
making use of the required forces.
Such is the account of Steiner, his Master and work
as given by Edouard Schure. The result of Yoga,
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 0 7
meditation and processes for awakening the kundalini,
whether Western or Eastern, is the same in all groups
working under unknown Masters; it means that gradu­
ally the Master takes possession of the adept’s mind and
impresses his own will upon it, so that an advanced ini­
tiate, such as Steiner, would work under the impetus of
the hidden Master and for his ends alone. As the so-
called Tibetan Master of Mrs. Alice Bailey, theosophist
and occultist, New York, explains, contact with the
Master is recognised by peculiar vibrations: (i) at the
top of the spine; (2) in the forehead (pineal gland,
where the adept’s kundalini unites with the Master’s
forces from without, it is the seat of controlled know­
ledge); (3) at the top of the head (pituitary body).
He continues: “ In time the student comes to recognise
the vibration and to associate it with some particular
‘Great One,’ for each Master has his own vibration
which impresses itself upon his pupils in a specific
manner.” The forces are “ these magnetic currents of
the universe, that vital fluid, those electric rays, the
latent heat in all bodies.” Cold and calculating, “ a
Master is only interested in a man from the point of
view of his usefulness in the group-soul and his capacity
to help.” The individual is as nothing to him; he is
only a part in his world revolutionary machine, to be
thrown aside when no longer an asset in their game!
Dr. Rudolf Steiner died at Dornach, Switzerland,
30 March, 1925, slowly but surely burnt out by the
terrific forces working through him, and at his funeral
Albert Steffen, poet and president of the Executive
Committee of the Anthroposophical Society, delivered
an address. Speaking of Steiner’s “ Spiritual Science ”
or Christian Illuminism, he said: “ Rudolf Steiner opened
out to us the prospect of a religious life beyond all sects.”
Fifty theologians went to him seeking a way to unite
their work once more with the “ eternal life of the Spirit,”
and Steffen continued: “ Steiner was able to transmit to
them the holy ceremony which the priests of the
Christengemeinschaft are now enacting for himself.”
We understand this Christengemeinschaft is being re-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
208
vived, run by Heidenreyd with about 400 members in
this country. What is this “ Spiritual Science ” ?
According to Steiner, “ Anthroposophy is a path of
knowledge to guide the Spiritual in the human being to
the Spiritual in the Universe.” Wholly cosmic and
astral!
In his book translated by Schure, Le Mystbre
Chretien et les Mysteres Antiques, Steiner writes :
" In the early days of Christianity there sprang up in the old
Pagan world, systems of the universe which seemed to be a pro­
longation of the philosophy of Plato, but which could be under­
stood also as a spiritualisation of the wisdom of the Mysteries.
All these systems had their starting-point in Philo, the Jewish
philosopher of Alexandria, who said: 1It is necessary for the soul
to come out of the ordinary “ I.” Then it enters into a state of
spiritual ecstasy, of illumination, when it ceases to know, to think,
and to recognise in the ordinary sense of the words. For it has
identified itself with the divine, they have become one. . . .*”
He is deified and has lost his own personality! And
as Steiner says:
“ God (the Creative Principle) is bewitched in the world, and
it is his own force that is needed to find Him. This force (sex-
force) must be awakened within you. Such were the teachings
which the Myste received before initiation. And now began the
great drama of the world, of which he made a living integral
part. The aim of the drama was nothing less than the freeing
of the hidden God; where is that God? God is not but Nature
is. It is in Nature that he must be found. For he is enshrouded
in her as in an enchanted tomb.”
Here we have the pantheistic God Pan, who is
merely the creative principle in all nature, including man
—the life force. As Clemens of Alexandria said in
speaking of the Greater Mysteries: “ Here ends all teach­
ings, one sees Nature and things.”
Further, Steiner explains: “ The Cross of Golgotha
is the whole cult of the Ancient Mysteries gathered into
one fact. . . . Christianity as a mystical fact is a degree
of evolution in the Wisdom of the Mysteries.” This
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 0 9
again is Manichaeism, which looks upon the Crucifixion,
Resurrection, and Ascension of Christ as mystical ex­
periences. A lecture given by Steiner at Oxford in
1922, “ The Mystery of Golgotha,” throws further light
upon his Spiritual Science. Now, Steiner was also a
Rosicrucian, and in explaining this “ Mystery of Gol­
gotha ” he based his ideas upon certain words said to
have been written in the Book T., which, according to the
Rosicrucian mystical legend, was found on the breast of
Christian Rosenkreutz at the opening of his tomb in the
fifteenth century.
These words were: Ex Deo nascimur; In Christo
(or Jehesuah) morimur; Per Spiritum Sanctum revi-
viscimus—From God are we born; in Christ or Jesus do
we die; through the Holy Spirit we rise again. That is
through the Gnostic Trinity—Father, creator; Son or
Solar Christ, the Logos or serpent, the vivifying force;
the Holy Spirit, the Great Mother which reproduces all
things. The whole is the eternal creation, destruction,
and regeneration, as applied to Illuminism.
In the R.R. et A.C., which, under the late Dr.
Felkin, was closely allied to Steiner and practised some
of his processes and Eurhythmy for awakening the kun-
dalini, the 5= 6 ritual dramatically depicts the meaning
of these words: the aspirant is led to the tomb wherein
lay the Chief Adept in full regalia, representing Chris­
tian Rosenkreutz; the tomb is opened and the aspirant
demands: “ Out of the Darkness let the Light arise1”
From within the tomb a voice is heard: “ Buried with
that Light in a mystical death, rising again in a mystical
resurrection, cleansed and purified through Him our
Master, O brother of the Rose and Cross! . . . Seek
thou the Stone of the Wise! . . .” The Stone is the
Quintessence or Pentagram—Illuminism.
As illustrated on the lid of the tomb, these mystical
experiences represent the adept as a Christ crucified on
the Cross of Light or Illuminism; the Great Dragon
Leviathan—the kundalini—rises up to Daath, and from
above descends the Lightning-Flash attracted by and
uniting with the serpent within, linking the adept with
14
210 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
the universal life-force without. He becomes the
Jehesuah-Yod, He Shin, Vau, He—the Pentagram or
deified man, losing his Selfhood. It is the Rosicrucian
Chymical Wedding. It is thus described by the Jewish
writer Kadmi Cohen in Nomades:
“ Abyss and pinnacle. The dizzy height of the one set off by
the unfathomable depth of the other. Who will ever know the
unspeakable sufferings of the ascension, the mortal terrors of the
fall? But also the ineffable joy, superhuman, divine, to be upon
the peak which overhangs the universe, beyond good and evil,
above pure practical reason, to be Man, to be Self, who equals
himself to God, who wrestles with Him, who absorbs Him. It
is Israel, it is Ishmael who supplies these men to the world! ”
His God is the God Pan, he is intoxicated by the astral
Light!
Schure explains that Christian Rosenkreutz left
“ three spiritual truths ” to his disciples, and that these
truths were only scientifically proved four centuries later,
namely: (i) the material unity of the universe—by
spectrum analysis; (2) organic evolution—by transfor­
mation of species according to Darwin and Haeckel;
(3) states of human consciousness different from the
ordinary state—by hypnotism and suggestion. As the
power used by Rosicrucians was said to be the “ magnetic
fluid ” in man and in the universe, set in motion by con­
centrated thought and will-power, one can easily believe
that such initiations, under unknown Masters, might
mean hypnotism and suggestion. The spectrum is the
resolution of light through the prism, and as the Rosi­
crucian ritual says: “ Colours are forces and the signa­
ture of forces and Child of the children of the forces art
thou.” The Rosicrucians work with colours and geo­
metrical figures, representing the forces of the planets,
the signs of the Zodiac, the elements, etc., and the colours
of the planets are the spectrum of the Rosicrucian
“ Divine White Light,” that magnetic fluid which slays
and makes alive. Steiner talks much of planetary
hierarchies, Archangels, Angels, etc., but there is reason
to believe that they can one and all be reduced to nature’s
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 211
universal forces, for the o = o ritual of the Stella Matu-
tina says: “ For by names and images are all powers
awakened and reawakened.
Therefore, is not Steiner's “ Spiritual Science"
merely the Hermetic fixation of the astral light in a
material body—Illuminism—linking the adept, as a tool,
to some “ White Occultists ” supposedly working for
the weal, or is it not rather the woe of Humanity?
As expressing Steiner’s Communistic, political
dreams and schemes, we have his “ Threefold State."
As a symbolic basis for this “ Threefold State " Steiner
takes the human organism: (i) the system of the nerves
and senses—the head system. (2) the system of breath­
ing and the circulation of the blood—the rhythmic
system. (3) the organs and functions of matter changes
—the metabolic process. According to Steiner, these
systems, comparatively speaking, function separately:
“ There is no such thing as absolute centralisation in the
human organism." “ In order to thrive, the social
organism, like the natural one, requires to be threefold."
(1) Economic life—relatively as independent as the ner­
vous and sensory system within the human body. “ Its
concern is with everything in the nature of production,
circulation, and consumption of commodities." (2)
Public rights, political life—the State; “ applied to a
community possessing common rights." (3) Mental
and spiritual life; “ everything that rests on the natural
endowment of each single human being . . . spiritual
and physical." All are apparently separate yet inter­
dependent. “ Alongside the political sphere and the
economic sphere in a healthy society there must be the
spiritual sphere, functioning independently on its own
footing "—that is, religion, teaching, art, and intellectual
life, and even technical and organising capacities as
applied to the State or industrial economy.
" It is the threefold line of evolution towards which modern
humanity is striving. . . . At the end of the eighteenth century,
under different circumstances from which we are living to-day,
there went up a cry from the hidden depths of human nature for
a re-formation of human social relations (stirred up by the
212 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Illuminati and Grand Orient Lodges). Through all the scheme
of the new order ran like a motto the three words: ‘ Fraternity,
Equality, Liberty.’ ”
Admitting that equality and liberty are contradic­
tory, Steiner is in sympathy with all three, and applies
them to his threefold State. Economic life in the form
of Associations is combined under brotherhood, the State
under equality, and the spiritual field under liberty or
freedom, and he says:
“ No social State, constructed on an abstract centralised
scheme, can carry freedom, equality, and brotherhood pell mell
into practice. But each of the three branches of the body social
can derive its strength from one of these (contradictory) ideal
impulses; and then all three branches will work fruitfully in
conjunction.”
Such is Steiner’s, as it has been called, “ headless ”
Threefold State, and this he would further extend, in
the same headless way, to a Threefold World State.
“ Such a close interweaving of interests will grow up, as will
make territorial frontiers seem negligible in the life of mankind.
. . . The forces to which nationalities owe their growth require
for their development free mutual interaction untrammelled by
any ties that grew up between respective bodies of State and the
Economic Associations. And the way of achieving this is for the
various national communities to develop the threefold order within
their own social structures; and then their three branches can each
expand its own relation with the corresponding branches of the
other communities. In this way, peoples, States, economic bodies,
become grouped together in formations that are very various in
shape and character; and every part of mankind becomes so
linked with the other parts that each is conscious of the life of
the other pulsing through its own daily interests. A league of
nations is the outcome arising out of root impulses that corre­
spond to actual realities. There will be no need to ‘ institute ’ one
built up solely on legal theories of right.”
Finally, he says: “ There must be but one human
race working at one common task, willing to read the
signs of the times and to act in accordance with them.”
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 1 3
The whole is just another form of Mazzini’s “ Associate,
associate!” or Mrs. Alice Bailey's “ World State” by
means of “ unification ” under the control of some
mysterious “ Supermen.”
This dream of a World State is far from being
new. We know that Weishaupt’s initiates had to take
an oath swearing to help to their utmost the foundation
of a Universal Republic; and at the end of the eighteenth
century the Illuminatus Anacharsis Clootz’s plan was:
“ All peoples forming only one nation, all the trades
forming only one trade, all interests forming only one
interest.” Steiner was an Illuminatus said to have been
linked to those who, towards the end of the nineteenth
century, revived Weishaupt’s Illuminism. He was,
therefore, apparently, carrying on the tradition in his
Threefold World State.
Moreover, with regard to intellectual interconnec­
tions, necessary for this World State, we might quote
the report 1928-29, of the “ Society for Cultural Re­
lations Between the Peoples of the British Commonwealth
and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics,” in which it
was noted that the Anthroposophical Society (Steiner’s)
was one of the organisations in contact with it. A
British Government Blue Book thus describes this
S.C.R.: “ The Communist International favours it as a
fertile ground for Communist propaganda of the in­
tellectual variety.” And there is little doubt that to-day
every nation is conscious of the Soviet life “ pulsing
through its own daily interests,” largely detrimental and
disintegrating economically, politically, and spiritually.
To take another phase of Anthroposophical teaching
and practical application of its beliefs. In December
1932, Frau Lilly Kolisko, a leading member of the
Anthroposophical Society in Stuttgart, came to London
to lecture to an agricultural group of the Society which
proposed to revive ancient astronomical or perhaps astro­
logical customs, common among primitive people, adding
to them, apparently, the science of Anthroposophy! Her
theories were that plants and vegetables sown at the
correct moon-phase grow much faster and more
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
214
luxuriantly than when the moon-phases are ignored.
That the earth breathes rhythmically, and that sowing,
fertilising, and harvesting of crops can be worked into
this rhythm. Further, that plants requiring much mois­
ture grow a great deal better when planted two days
before full moon, and those requiring little moisture
during a waning moon.
Pearce, in his Text-book of Astrology, tells us that
more rain usually falls during the increase than during
the decrease of the moon, as was proved by many experi­
ments throughout the years 1868 to 1881. Again, the
ancients have said that oaks cut down in springtime,
when the sap is rising, soon rot. All timber trees
should be felled during the winter solstice, and the last
days of the moon, then the timber would last in per­
petuity. Practically this is affirmed by R. Reynell
Bellamy, in his book The Real South Seas. He says of
the Kanakas of New Caledonia that they maintain that
the flow of the sap is upwards with the waxing moon
and downwards when it wanes. They plant maize,
beans, etc., before the full moon, and root crops after.
Timber for building purposes they fell during the last
phase of lunation, when the sap is at its lowest.
As for the rhythmic breathing of the earth, they no
doubt refer to the Great Breath or Swara of the Uni­
verse, the life-force—Pingala, the positive or sun breath;
Ida, the negative or moon breath; and the Sushumna,
the central or uniting fire. There are also the five
Tatwas of refined matter—'ether, air (gaseous), fire
(igneous), water (liquid), earth (solid). The whole pro­
cessof creation on all planes of life is said to be performed
by these Tatwas in their aspects of positive and negative.
All these phases follow and merge into each other in
regular and continuous procession. They are the basis
of all magic, black or white. They are Nature’s finer
forces, but not spiritual or divine, except as instruments,
the creative principle in all nature.
Again, to repeat what we have previously said,
speaking of astrology among the Chaldeans, Dollinger
wrote:
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 215
“ These men found a support in the Stoic philosophy, which,
starting with the principle of the substantial identity of God and
Nature, had come to look upon the stars as eminently divine, and
placed divine government of the world in the immovable course
of the celestial globes.”
In the time of Alexander the astrologers of the
Chaldean and Alexandro-Egyptian schools were spread
over Asia, Greece, and Italy, and taught that a secret
influence from the planets descended uninterruptedly
upon the earth and man, and that by magical cults and
astrological prayers these planets could be acted upon
and their forces directed as required. In Illuminised
orders, such as the R.R. et A.C., these planetary in­
fluences are invoked, or attracted, by the Jewish symbol
of power, the six-rayed star; and the higher grades are
given at the various phases of the moon.
In Od and Magnetism, 1852, Reichenbach wrote:
u The element of odic force is thus radiated towards us so
abundantly by sunlight and moonlight that we can lay hold of it
at our ease, and make use of it in simple experiments. How
unbounded its influence is on the whole of humanity, and even on
the whole animal and vegetable kingdoms, will be proved shortly.
Od is accordingly a cosmic force that radiates from star to star,
and has the whole universe for its field, just like light and heat.”
This Od or, as the Rosicrucians say, magnetic fluid,
is the universal life-force, generated by the sun, and
reproduced by the moon, which can be used for good or
perverted for evil.
In support of what we have written above we find
the following in the Programme of the Anthroposophical
Summer School, held at Tetbury, August 1934:
“ Dr. C. A. Mirbt will hold classes dealing with the anthropo­
sophical conception of Agriculture. The subjects will be as
follows: the soil as the work of Cosmos and Earth; the soil as
a manifestation of the evolution of the Earth; Etheric formative
forces in plant and soil; the true nature of manuring; the animal
kingdom as manifestation of the astral world. . . .”
Here we have the Cosmic forces of the stars and the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
2 l 6
magnetic forces of the earth. It is the basis of all the
old pagan cults; it is the ancient Chaldean astrological
lore and that of the old Rosicrucian medicinal herb-
growers. Added to it all is the modern science of
manuring! Further Steiner, like the learned botanist
of his youthful days, claimed to be able to see the vital
or life-forces in the plant, to arrest these forces, and
use them as required in his healing. Hence his “ New
Therapy ” and the British Weleda Co., Ltd., for dis­
pensing the results of the “ Anthroposophical Medical
Research,” incorporated in 1925.
By some it is maintained that this “ Anthropo­
sophical Agriculture ” is based, not on Astrology, but
Astronomy. Yet Steiner’s astronomy in “ Spiritual
Science ” appears to be a reversion to ancient and Eastern
beliefs when Nature’s forces and phenomena were
everywhere looked upon as active and ruling gods, some­
times good and sometimes evil. In Anthroposophy—
Michaelmas, 1928, E. Vreede writes of this astronomy,
and explains that behind the veil of the past and Nature
the stars reveal themselves as ‘ Colonies of Spiritual
Beings,’ nine stages of hierarchies towering above man.
Together they have formed and governed the world and
man, under a World Spirit.
In order that man should develop, these beings were
seemingly withdrawn, and man was abandoned to
mechanical laws;
“ yet in this mechanism, as in all natural phenomena, spiritual
beings are working. The fact that in Spring the plants come
forth from the soil, that blossom and fruit appear, and that the
plants wither away in Autumn; the fact that when here we have
Autumn, Spring begins to burst on the other side of the Earth—
all this is brought about by the Nature-Spirits, the gnomes, un­
dines, sylphs together with the salamanders. . . .”
Thus in the Stella Matutina four of its ceremonies
end with the prayers of these nature spirits of water,
air, earth, and fire, very beautiful as a piece of art, taking
one back to childhood’s wonderful fairy tales. Later,
for the intellectual development of man, Ahrimanic
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 1 ?
being’s (matter) were sent to consolidate the earth and
veil spiritual reality.
Yet again it is said that man and Nature were, from
the beginning, fashioned according to the laws of Rhythm
and Periodicity, and the law of gravity held sway over
the earth. Finally, as Steiner said: “ When we observe
the life of the world of stars, we are beholding the bodies
of the Gods and ultimately of Divinity itself.” This
once more seems to reveal the pantheistic nature of
Steiner’s whole teaching, “ the bewitched God ” en­
shrouded in all nature. The Jehovah of the cabalistic
Jew—the Creative Principle.
According to Steiner the Gods of the Sun, Moon,
and Saturn—this Creative Principle-*—
manifested in the
body of Jesus of Nazareth as a Christ-impulse—the Ser­
pent Power of the Yogis, the Logos or serpent of the
Gnostics. “ And the fact that it was possible for the
Christ-impulse to enter humanity was brought about by
the ancient Initiation principle becoming historical fact”
In From Sphinx to Christ, by Edouard Schure, the
French and Jewish exponent of Steiner’s Neo-Gnostic
Illuminism, we are given an account of this ancient pan­
theistic creed as applied to the Christ of the Christian
Church, de-Christianising and Judaising Christian be­
liefs; making Christ merely a super “ Deified Man.”
The Sphinx represents the prepared body, offered in
sacrifice, into which the Christ-impulse was to descend.
The whole means the rise and perversion of the sex-
force or serpent within man, attracting and uniting with
the Lightning-Flash or Solar Christ-impulse from with­
out, controlled by unknown directors—it is called
initiation.
According to Schure:
“ It was still necessary that, from birth up to the age of
thirty, when the Christ would take possession of His human
habitation, the body of Jesus should be refined and harmonised
by an initiate of the highest rank (one who had passed through
many incarnations!), so that a man almost divine should offer
himself up as a sacrifice, a consecrated vessel, to receive the God-
made man.”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
2 l 8
Therefore, it is said that Jesus was a reincarnation of
the high initiate Zoroaster! Later the “ Master Jesus ”
was placed under the instructions of the Essenes, a
fraternity of initiates who lived along the shores of the
Dead Sea, where finally the “ voice within” told him:
“ Thou hast laid thy body upon the altar of Adonai (the
Lord of the Universe) like a lyre of ivory and gold.
Now thy God claims thee that He may manifest Himself
to men. He seeks thee and thou canst not escape Him!
Offer thyself as sacrifice. Embrace the Cross!”
Then followed the initiation, the baptism in the
Jordan by John the Baptist, of which Schure writes:
“ It is forbidden to help the one who was being baptised to
leave the water; the belief was that a breath of the Divine Spirit
entered into him through the hand of the prophet and the waters
of the river. The majority emerged from the test revivified;
some died; others became insane as though possessed. These
were called demoniacs.”
As to the “ Master Jesus
“ He is aware of a sensation of drowning followed by a
terrible convulsion . . . and for some seconds he sees a chaotic
picture of his whole past life . . . then the darkness of uncon­
sciousness. The transcendent Self, the immortal Soul of the
Master Jesus has left his physical body for ever, and he is
received back into the aura of the Sun. At the same moment,
by an inverse movement, the Solar Genius, the sublime Being,
whom we call Christ, entered the abandoned body and took pos­
session of it, animating with new fire this human lyre that had
been prepared through hundreds of generations.”
Lightning flashed from the sky, and as He emerged
from the water, His whole body bathed in light, a
luminous dove appeared above His head, “ the mystery of
the Eternal Feminine, the spirit of Divine Love, trans­
former and vivifier of souls, to be called later by Chris­
tians the ‘ Holy Spirit.’ ” Then came a voice from
above: “ This is My beloved Son; to-day have I begotten
Him.” (This version of the words is, Schure says, to
be found in the early Hebrew gospel; it works in better
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 1 9
with his idea of this Cosmic Christ!) “ The object of
His mission is the spiritualisation of the world and of
man,” through Love and the opening of the Mysteries
to all who may aspire to them. That is illuminising as
through the innumerable Mystery sects of to-day!
Now this whole account might well be the history
of the preparation and initiation of the many illuminised
tools now being used in the widespread Universal Move­
ment of to-day. As in this baptism, so in these initiations,
some died, some were illuminised, losing their personali­
ties, becoming controlled by some unknown Master, as
for example Krishnamurti of the Theosophical Society,
“ Octavia ” of the Panacea Society, and many others.
The Illuminising Power was the Gnostic Trinity—the
Father, the generating force; the Holy Spirit, the Great
Mother, the reproducer; the Son, the Cosmic Christ, the
manifestation of the Creative Principle, the illuminising
force, of all Gnostic and Cabalistic sects.
Schure further holds, thus in opposition to Mrs.
Besant, that this Christ will not again occupy a material
body, but will appear to such adepts who have astral
vision. Just as in the “ House of Wisdom, Cairo,” the
adepts were taught that Mohammed their prophet “ could
be contacted spiritually through meditation on the
mystical doctrines!” Also in the R.R. et A.C., which
was closely allied to Steiner’s group, their mysterious
Master latterly appeared astrally to many members, mas­
querading as a Christ, demanding from the adepts com­
plete sacrifice in service to the Great World Movement.
And Schure says: “ According to Rosicrucian tradition,
the spirit which spoke to the world in the name of Christ
and through the lips of the Master Jesus is closely re­
lated to the ruling star of our system, the Sun.” This
Christ-impulse is therefore a compelling power manipu­
lated by these invisible directors, and the initiate pene­
trated by this force becomes merely the negative repro­
ducer of the ideas and actions set in motion through
this impulse. Under the mask of initiation he becomes
diabolically possessed.
As M. Henri de Guillebert says:
220 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
“ The Jew looks upon himself as the Sun of humanity, the
male, opposed to which the other peoples are but female, mani­
festing and assuring the coming of the Messianic era. In order
to realise this sociological manifestation, the Jew organically
extends his influence by means of secret societies created by him
in order to spread everywhere his initiating force . . . [hoping
to realise] the ‘ Universal Republic,’ controlled by the God of
Humanity, the Jew of the Cabala.”
Max Heindel
Max Heindel, who seceded from Steiner and
founded “ The Rosicrucian Fellowship ” of California,
published in 19n his version of Steiner’s teachings in
Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception. In this his teaching
about the Christ, like that of Steiner, shows the
Manichaean influences. To him the Christ is the Sun-
Spirit, the King of Love, manifested magnetic life-force,
the forces of attraction and cohesion; this Christ-Fire
descended, he said, into the body of Jesus of Nazareth
at the age of thirty, during his baptism in the Jordan,
and he then became the initiate Christ Jesus. His mission
was to unite separate races and nations in one Universal
Brotherhood, of which he was to be the Eldest Brother.
Ninety-nine did not require salvation, but were to reach
perfection by way of rebirth and consequences, that is,
Reincarnation and Karma. Christ was only to redeem
the stragglers and open the way of initiation to all!
To illustrate their methods of shaping and hewing
their dupes, Max Heindel explains:
“ Physiologists note that certain areas of the brain are
devoted to particular thought activities. . . . Now it is known
that thought breaks down and destroys nerve tissues . . . [which]
are replaced by the blood. . . . When through the development
of the heart into a voluntary muscle, the circulation of the blood
finally passes under the absolute control of the unifying life-spirit
—the Spirit of Love (so-called Christ-Force) it will then be
within the power of that Spirit to withhold the blood from those
areas of the mind devoted to selfish purposes. As a result these par­
ticular thought centres will gradually atrophy. On the other hand,
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 221
it will be possible for the spirit to increase the blood supply, when
the mental activities are altruistic, and thus build up the areas
devoted to altruism.”
Here we appear to have a more or less diabolical hypnotic
method, gradually muting all strong and sane faculties,
creating single-eyed fanatics, false idealists, soft peace-
mongers, yet willing to revolutionise nations and break up
Empires. As Max Heindel puts it: “ Working toward
Universal Brotherhood in accordance with the designs of
our invisible Leaders, who are none the less potent in
shaping events because they are not officially seated in the
councils of the nations.” Again: “ The national, tribal,
and family unity must first be broken up before Universal
Brotherhood can become a fact.” Everywhere we see
these unities being acted upon for this apparent purpose!
All methods are employed to ensnare the unwary but
desired prey.
P a n a c e a S o c ie t y
In his Essai sur la secte des Illumines, the Marquis
de Luchet, a Mason, wrote in 1789:
“ There exists a crowd of small anti-philosophical groups,
composed of learned women, theological Abbes, and some so-called
Sages. Each group has its beliefs, its prodigies, hierophants, mis­
sionaries, adepts, and its detractors. . . . Each professes to
explain the Bible in favour of its system, to found its religion,
fill its temple, and multiply its catechumens. Here Jesus Christ
plays a great role; there it is the Devil; elsewhere it is Nature,
and again Faith. Everywhere reason is null, science is useless,
experience is a chimera.”
Speaking of Rosicrucianism, Paul Vulliaud says:
“ As it progresses, this movement augments the number
of its Masters by linking to itself all isolated Theo-
sophists: Boehme, Jane Lead, etc., forming a kind of
patristic chain.” Enlarging on the precursors of Free­
masonry, Gustave Bord, 1908, tells us that Boehme, a
more or less uneducated shoemaker, was born near
222 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Gorlitz in 1575. Known as the Teutonic Philosopher,
he was a mystic, theosophist, and visionary; influenced
by the philosophies of Paracelsus and Cornelius Agrippa,
he was led to mysticism, and
“ was convinced that he held, by special grace from God, the
universal and absolute science, which he communicated to his
readers without order, without proofs, in a language borrowed
from the Apocalypse and alchemy. . . . We find in Boehme a
vast system of metaphysics, the foundation of which is an un­
bridled pantheism."
After reading Boehme’s Six Theosophic Points, and
other works, we are forced to come to a similar con­
clusion.
Coming to the present day, most of the many sects
we have written about can be referred to as belonging
to one form or another of Theosophical mysticism or
Rosicrucian illuminism—gnostic and pantheistic, the cult
of Nature and Naturalism. One of the most insistent
and ambitious of these is the Panacea Society, about
which we have written much in the past. Briefly, its
history is as follows: A mystic sect, under the name of
“ Philadelphians,” was founded in 1652 by Jane Lead,
an enthusiastic admirer of Boehme, for the purpose of
explaining his writings. She herself was said to have
received mystical revelations, which were published as
“ Sixty Propositions to the Philadelphian Society,
whithersoever dispersed as the Israel of God.” Like the
writings of Boehme, these revelations were Gnostic and
Rosicrucian Illuminism. Ffom Jane Lead and their
seven successive prophets, forming a patristic chain, was
evolved the present Panacea Society, with “ Octavia ” as
mystic leader and Rachel Fox as president. Their
Trinity is similar to that of the Universal Gnostic Church,
which invokes thus: “ Glory be to Father and to
Mother, to Son and to Daughter, and to the Holy Spirit
without and within.” The Panacea Society recognises:
The Father of Light, the generative fire; the Holy Ghost,
the Great Mother; the Son, Christ, or active manifesta­
tion of the Father, the Bridegroom; the Daughter, the
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 223
negative manifestation of the Mother, Shiloh, the Bride,
who, they said, descended into “ Octavia,” the latter thus
becoming the passive instrument, receiving and trans­
mitting the power from above—that of her Master!
They, too, received revelations, published as The
Writings of the Holy Ghost—A Series of papers for My
beloved. Their means of enlightenment were limited to
these writings, the Bible, the Apocrypha, and the writings
of their prophets. They had two fixed ideas: the open­
ing of Joanna Southcott’s mysterious box in the presence
of twenty-four bishops, six Jews of repute and others,
and which they claimed contained the means of saving
England in the coming storm, and bringing deliverance
to Judah; the other was magnetic-healing by charged
sections of linen and water, “ a sure deliverance and pro­
tection, so that death may become non-existent.”
Further, 144,000 “ Israel or the Immortals ” were to be
sealed and set apart for service, and recently we heard
that twelve square miles of land had been bought, where­
on these 144,000, when chosen, were to be settled.
As showing their attitude towards the Jews, the two
following advertisements, taken from Jewish papers, are
interesting:
(1) “ Not anti-Semitism, but anti-Hamitism—The Panacea
Society is anxious to help the Jews (descendants of Shem) to
deliver themselves from the abominable charges which bring about
anti-Semitic persecution. The first thing to learn is that it is the
descendants of Ham, who say they are Jews, and are not, who are,
and always have been, the enemies of God and man/’
(2) “ Good News for the Jews—the Prophet’s promises and
the Pharisaic ideals of a kingdom ruled by God upon earth are
on the edge of becoming f a c t , for the week of 6,000 years of
6 days of 1,000 years each is rapidly closing, and the Sabbath
of Rest for Israel and for Judah during the reign of the Messiah
on earth is about to commence. Enquire, Panacea Society,
Bedford.”
This, they say,
“ will be the end of the Adamic age, which followed the Atlantean,
Lemurian, and other ages, the history of which is shrouded in
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
224
Mystery. . . . God’s Sabbath of Rest is the seventh thousand
from Adam . . . [when] men will live on earth delivered from
sin, sickness, and death by reason that Satan will be cast off the
earth into the place prepared for him. . .
Again, in a leaflet headed “ To Our Brethren of
the tribe of Judah,” they say that it is for the union of
Judah and Israel the world is waiting, and these isles
are their place of gathering; that King George V is
descended from Zedekiah, King of Judah; therefore the
Hebrews have a king, a country, and because the
Union Jack means, they say, the union of Jacob, they
have also a national flag! But both Judaism and Chris­
tianity have, they say, sinned, in that the former rejects
the Son and the latter rejects the Daughter! Needless
to say, the Panacea Society has accepted both, and there­
fore, alone of all religions or cults it possesses the whole
truth! Again they say they have forsaken “ all con­
trivances of man in philosophies, philanthropies, govern­
ments, churches, cults, such as Higher Thought, Chris­
tian Science, Theosophy, Occultism, etc.,” and are seek­
ing “ alone for a New Life.” Nevertheless, their cult is
built up of mystic Illuminism, Rosicrucianism, and
Gnosticism, and one of their admired predecessors was
Jacob Boehme, the Teutonic Philosopher and Theo-
sophist!
Finally, we have another leaflet, headed “ The Last
Religion for the Last Times—the ‘whosoever ’ Re­
ligion,” based on the text, “ Whosoever shall call on
the name of the Lord shall be delivered.” They
continue:
“ We do not for a moment discount the religions which have
served our and other nations during the 6,000 years of compara­
tive peace, when it was right to follow the religious teachings of
childhood. But this ‘ whosoever ’ religion is for a time of war—
the final war between God and the devils—and when such things
as earthquakes . . . wars and rumours of wars, and distress of
nations with perplexity are about, as they certainly are to-day, it
is most reasonable to suppose that a very simple form of religion,
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 2 5
such as a straightforward command to call upon God for deliver­
ance (for ‘ myself and my family') . . . would be provided.”
Curiously enough, we have heard much in recent
months of a somewhat similar but anonymous “ Whoso­
ever ” religion, publicly calling upon the people of the
nation to pray for “ deliverance and protection for my­
self and my family, etc.” It would be satisfactory to
those who have in good faith responded to this anony­
mous call, which is still persisting, September 1935, and
signed the petition, if this mystery of similarity could be
solved.
We hear the Panacea Society is once more stirring,
making last desperate attempts to get the notorious
Joanna Southcott box opened. In order to hasten mat­
ters they have made a small concession, in that they will
allow twenty-four clergy nominated by the Bishops to
open, the box, and if the contents do not prove to be the
panacea for world ills as expected by the Society, the
box and all it contains may be burned. Is it that the cold
winds of doiibt are entering into some of their souls!
Joanna Southcott, 1792-1814, was the second link
of the patristic chain of seven visitations based on Jane
Lead’s writings, on which the Panacea Society builds its
mission to England. In a short statement of “ The
Doctrines of the Dispensation of the Holy Ghost (during
which death will cease),” published by the Society in
1922, the following points refer to the box and its
mission: (4) You have probably heard that Joanna South­
cott left a box, corded and nailed, of sealed MSS. The
box is the Ark of the Testament, alluded to in Rev. xi. 19,
called so because it contains God’s Will and Testament
for this country (!). (5) You may also have heard
that this box can only be delivered up and opened by
twenty-four Bishops of the Church of England, who are
the twenty-four elders mentioned in Rev. xi. 16, and are
the executors of the Will. (6) The box was originally
left in the care of the Rev. Thomas Foley, Vicar of Old
Swinford, Worcester, and upon his death it was given
into the care of his son Richard, Vicar of North Cad-
15
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
226
bury. The present custodian (1922), also a Church­
man, is under an oath not to deliver up the box except
to twenty-four bishops who will comply with certain
conditions laid down by the Lord (!). (7) The box
will be applied for in a time of grave national danger.
The ark or box will prove publicly the truth of what has
so long been developing privately, and also will prove
the integrity of the Church, by placing before her the
proof of a New Divine Revelation, before which she
must bow or cease to exist.
Is this in reality a New Revelation ? Is it not rather
old as the cults of the remotest past which went to build
up the Jewish Magical Cabala—Sabeists and workers in
“ fluidic magic ” ? Here are a few points of their revela­
tions at that time, which seem to show relationship to
these ancient beliefs:
“ What do the Bishops know of ( I) Spirit, soul, and body,
and their relation to the glories of the sun, moon, and stars
[astral influences] ? (2) Of the coming immortal state of man
and woman upon Earth, and how it will be brought about [Illu-
minism!]? (3) Of the Eternal and Enduring Motherhood of
the Holy Ghost [Jerusalem above], who is the Third person in
the Blessed Trinity?”
We have seen that their Trinity is cabalistic and gnostic,
in which its aim is illumination or illuminism, the
Son being the vivifying force which, as the gnostics
say, creates “ Christs/’ or deifies man. It is union with
the universal life-force which would appear to be eternal,
and by this union, they believe, man would become im­
mortal in his body—would never die!
“ Octavia ” writes in Healing for All:
“ To sum up, Joanna plays on the same strings as Jane Lead
[under the influence of Jacob Boehme], the coming restitution of
all things at the end of 6,000 years, and all to be brought in by
Woman [passive mediumistic instruments!] . . . the last hour of
the 6,000 years is running out. . . .”
Again, she writes to the Rural Deans:
RUDOLF STEtNER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 2 7
“ The Diocesan Bishops have been adjured to inform the
clergy of sacred and secret revelations made in this country upon
the coming cataclysm and upon the protective measures which the
Lord has prepared, whereby a remnant will be saved out of the
overthrow, but they have with one consent rejected every over­
ture. . . . Meanwhile, there is time to approach the Bishops and
to demand that the records be searched, particularly that the Ark
containing the word of the Lord through the Prophetess Joanna
Southcott be opened, for the ‘time of grave national danger,'
which is to mark its opening, is here " (May 1923).
Thousands of pounds, they say, have been spent,
and for twenty years or so statements have been sent to
the Bishops; they even, in May 1924, sent a petition
signed by 11,208 persons in England requesting the
Archbishop of Canterbury and other Bishops to open
the box. In this instance the statement was sent to
forty-two Bishops, the Chaplain-General of the Forces,
and the Dean of Westminster. The Archbishop replied
that he had done his part “ to meet the wishes of those,
whoever they may be, who have control of the box or
boxes, for my correspondents tell me there are rival
boxes.” As we know, in 1927 a box was opened by the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, but the
result was more a farce than a fiasco!
Moreover, an organisation known as the “ Fishers of
Men,” whose notepaper, according to the Evening Stan­
dard, was headed by a drawing of a serpent being stabbed
by a dagger, though believing in the Divine Mission of
Joanna Southcott, they dissociated themselves from the
Panacea Society’s decision to allow the box to be opened
by twenty-four nominated clergy instead of twenty-four
Bishops. As they said, such a concession “ can only
result in disaster and not the hoped-for blessings.”
This symbol of the “ Fishers of Men ” appears to
place the Society among modern cabalistic Illuminati,
for according to Eliphas Levi, in his History of Magic,
“The secret of the Great Work, which is the fixation of
the Astral Light by a sovereign act of will, is represented
by the adepts as a serpent pierced with an arrow, thus
forming the Hebrew letter Aleph.” The Trinity in
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
228
Unity of the Cabalists! The Patristic mission of the
Panacea Society and its affiliations is apparently to
illuminise England by means of controlled Illuminati,
and their overmasters are no doubt the ever-ubiquitous
Brothers of the Great White Lodges, who are cabalists!
S t e i n e r ' s Community Church
To return for a moment to Rudolf Steiner, we would
note that Rom Landau, in his book, God is My Adven­
ture, 1935, writes .about the Anthroposophical Com­
munity Church as told to him by one of its young
ministers. No doubt it is the same movement spoken
of by Albert Steffen in 1926 as the Christengemein-
schaft, whose priests were present at Steiner’s funeral.
Steiner, it would seem, was the adviser and “ spiri­
tual inspirer ” of this Community Church, which was
initiated in June 1921, by a group of young ministers and
laymen at Stuttgart, where Steiner gave a “ Lecture
Course to Theologians.” The group collected again at
Dornach, and once more Steiner lectured to them on his
teachings about Christ. Their traditional beliefs were
deeply shaken: they decided to form a new Church based
on Steiner’s revelations, and they evolved a constitution
which was approved of by Steiner. In September 1922
he ordained Rittelmeyer by laying on of hands, and
Rittelmeyer in turn ordained a number of young mini­
sters.
According to Steiner: “ Anthroposophy addresses
itself to man’s need of knowledge and brings knowledge;
the Christian Community Church addresses itself to
man’s need for resurrection and brings Christ.” That
is awakening the “ God within ” or kundalini, bringing
about illuminism! Now we know Steiner’s teaching on
Christ is that of the Manichaeans and the Jews of the
Alexandrian School. His God is. the Universal Creative
Principle, and his Christ-Impulse is merely the vivifying
and illuminising force of that same Principle; and the
Resurrection, Crucifixion, and Ascension are no more
than mystical teachings as taught by the Manichaeans.
RUDOLF STEINER AND MAX HEINDEL 2 2 9
Therefore one wonders if this Christian Community
Church is not an attempt to revive the old heresy of the
Albigenses!
Rom Landau tells us that these Churches exist in
Germany, several other Continental countries, and in
England.
CHAPTER X
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA
L e t u s now turn to another, perhaps less known, of our
modern Illumines, the “ Fraternity of the Inner Light,”
whose head is Dion Fortune. Its teaching is largely
based on the Jewish Cabala. She writes'that it
“ is one of these Mystery Schools; it is contacted on to the
Western Esoteric Tradition, and it works the Christian, the
Hermetic, and the Keltic aspects of that Tradition (hence its
pilgrimage centre at Glastonbury). . . . The Fraternity is an
independent and self-contained organisation, and is not affiliated
to any other organisation on the physical plane, but holds its
contacts direct from the Great White Lodge . . . the Great White
Brotherhood, the Masters, or Elder Brethren. It is with these
that the initiate of the Mysteries comes in touch when his higher
consciousness is sufficiently developed.”
Dion Fortune explains her real attitude towards
Christianity in her book, The Esoteric Orders, when,
speaking of Hermetic traditions, she writes:
“ Its highest development was in the Egyptian and Cabalistic
systems, and it was blended with Christian thought in the schools
of the Neo-Platonists and the Gnostics; but the persecuting energy
of the Church, long since exotericised, stamped it out as an
organised system. Its studies were only kept alive during the
Dark Ages among the Jews, who were the chief exponents of its
Cabalistic aspect. Its Egyptian aspect was reintroduced into
Europe by the Templars after the Crusades had put them in touch
with the Holy Centres in the Near East. [As we have shown,
the secret doctrine of the Templars was Manichsean and
Johannite, and they were allied to the Assassins!] Stamped out
again by the fear and jealousy of the Church, it reappeared once
more in the long line of Alchemists who flourished after the
power of Rome was broken by the Reformation; and it is still
230
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 3 1
alive to-day. [For] During the last half-century innumerable
attempts have been made to induce the soul of the Mysteries to
reincarnate, and these attempts have met with varying success.
Out of many abortive efforts a tradition is gradually being re­
formed ; the smouldering fire of occult knowledge has been fanned
to a blaze, and the gods have again drawn near to man”
Further to Dion Fortune, Christ is “ Lord of the
Purple Ray,” classed with Krishna and Osiris. He is
the Cosmic Christ, a regenerative and reconciling world-
force which can be contacted by meditation and used
for Cosmic purposes; he was never a personality nor of
our humanity, but Cosmic Fire, having the Sun as his
symbol. And, she says, “ by inspiration we can open
our consciousness to it, and align ourselves with its lines
of power until consciousness is suffused by it and illumi­
nation occurs.” And showing its pantheistic nature she
continues: “ Union with the divine aspect of the self,
the God within, must precede awareness of the God of
the Whole of which it is but a part. The spiritual level
of man’s nature is but a circumscribed portion of the
One Spirit, the All, the Noumenal aspect of manifesta­
tion.”
We must therefore conclude that the first aim of
the Fraternity, like all illuminised groups, is to unite the
Creative Principle within to the Creative Principle with­
out, attracting and drawing down the Cosmic Christ or
Fire—the illuminising force—thus forming the magnetic
link with the dominating minds of their Masters, for as
she again explains: “ By thinking of the Masters we
attract their attention, and it is unbelievably easy to
establish a magnetic link with those who are always more
ready to give than we are to receive.” As the Masters
said to the present writer, “ We have need of thee and
all thy gifts!” Their plan is to rule over a Universal
World State, and for this purpose they have need of
passive yet gifted instruments. As Dion Fortune, her­
self, writes: “ The Masters receive souls as pupils, not
for the benefit of the soul, but for the benefit of the
Great Work; a man is not trained for the sake of curi-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
232
osity or enthusiasm, but only in so far as he is of value
as a servant/’
Having duly become illuminised servants, the adepts
must train and initiate other dupes for a similar service
in one direction or another as required by these Masters.
Therefore:
“ An officer who rightly understood his function would dwell
upon the force which should act through his office till his per­
sonality became so saturated with it that he radiated its influence
upon the candidate he was helping to initiate. The united action
of all the officers builds a group-mind which is capable of trans­
mitting and focussing potencies of a much more massive or cosmic
type than could be transmitted through the channel of a single
consciousness/’
Colour and sound play an important part in trans­
mitting these forces. As Max Heindel said and Dion
Fortune repeats:
“ These invisible sound vibrations have great power over
concrete matter. They can build and destroy. If a small quantity
of very fine powder is placed upon a brass or glass plate, and a
violin bow drawn across the edge, the vibrations will cause the
powder to assume beautiful geometrical figures. The human voice
is also capable of producing these figures; always the same figure
for the same tone. If one note or chord after another be sounded
upon . . . preferably a violin . . . a tone will be finally reached
which will cause the hearer to feel a distinct vibration in the back
of the lower part of the head. Each time that note is struck,
the vibration will be felt. That note is the ‘ key-note ' of the
person whom it so affects. If struck slowly and soothingly, it
will build and rest the body, tone the nerves, and restore health.
If, on the other hand, it be sounded in a dominant way, loud and
long enough, it will kill as surely as a bullet from a pistol.”
And Dion Fortune sums up:
“ All these influences are employed to construct a great
thought-form in the group-mind of the Lodge, and into this
thought-form are poured the potencies evoked by the Names of
Power used in the initiatory work, and these influences are
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 3 3
focussed upon the candidate while he is in a state of exalted
consciousness. This is the rationale of initiation.”
This takes us back to the Order of the Elus Coens
of Martinez de Paschalis and the Jewish Magical Cabala
with its “ fluidic magic ” and the power generated by
pronouncing the so-called divine names, so much used
in all magical orders, Eastern as well as Western. As
the ancient Chaldean Oracles said: “ Change not bar­
barous names in evocation, for they are names Divine,
having in the sacred rites a power ineffable.” And
colours, we know, are the signatures of forces, there­
fore their vibrations are similar to their corresponding
forces.
As an excuse, the usual excuse of all such Frater­
nities and Orders, for the oath of secrecy, Dion Fortune
explains:
“ The knowledge is reserved in order that humanity may be
protected from its abuse in the hands of the unscrupulous. . . .
The mind has certain little-known powers, which are so potent
and so subtle that, used for crime, they could overturn the social
system of a nation. The courts recognise that undue influence
can be exercised by one person over another, but they have little
realisation of the kind of influence a trained mind can exert over
an untrained one.”
It is, therefore, reasonable to ask: Has Dion For­
tune any real proof that these so-called Masters and
Brethren of the so-called Great White Lodge are not
unscrupulous and ambitious occultists and magicians,
using and abusing these subtle powers of the minds of
men in order to bring about their own mad and fanatical
world ambitions, overturning the social, religious, and
political systems, not of one nation but of all ? If not, is
she willing to take the enormous responsibility and risk
for herself and more especially her confiding candidates
and dupes? She teaches that the Manus, by means of
suggestion or thought-transference, planted ideas in
human consciousness! Who are these supposed Manus ?
—a name borrowed from the East for what end!
234 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
Again:
“ It is for this reason [Illuminism] that the Masters found
and support such organisations as the Theosophical Society, the
Anthroposophical Society, the Rosicrucian Fellowship, and many
others, less known but not less useful. . .
Curiously enough, we find among their books, for sale
to the members, Crowley’s Magick, containing “ a re­
print of the famous ‘ 777-’ ” This latter book was
largely built up from correspondences given in the
cabalistic “ Knowledge Lectures ” of the Golden Dawn,
of which Order Crowley was a member in London from
1898 to 1900, when he was expelled!
Finally, like many other Illumines, the “ Fraternity
of Inner Light ” professes to abstain from political activi­
ties as ah organisation, but any member, having been
oriented by teaching from these Masters on the Inner
planes, “ it is his duty as a citizen to keep himself in­
formed concerning matters of national and local policy
and administration, and to bring his influence to bear
upon these in the cause of justice and righteousness.”
His influence would naturally be that of his Master and
control!
Who, then, are these Masters? And what is their
. Great Work? Have things changed since de Luchet
wrote in 1789:
“ There was formed in the heart of thickest darkness a
society of new beings, who knew each other without being seen,
who understood each other without explanation, who served one
another without friendship. Their society aims at governing the
world, appropriating the authority of sovereigns,, usurping their
thrones by leaving them the mere barren honour of wearing the
Crown. It adopts the Jesuitic regime, blind obedience, and the
regicide principles of the seventeenth century; from Freemasonry
the tests and exterior ceremonies; from the Templars the subter­
ranean evocations and incredible audacity. It uses the discoveries
of physics in order to impose upon the ignorant multitude.”
The invisible manipulators of Illuminism may be
few, but their methods have the secret subtlety of the
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 235
serpent, and their dupes are many. It is by binding
together half qualities in men and women into groups
of three, five, seven, twelve, etc., that the power of magic
lies; it is, as it were, the seven colours of the prism,
united to form the “ Divine White Light ” of the Rosi-
crucians, each individual representing the characteristics
of a colour, therefore, of a force. This applies to
material, mental, and emotional magic. There are also
many other correspondences attached to each force, as
shown by Crowley in “ 777," which when combined to­
gether add to the potency of that particular force. As
Dion Fortune expresses it:
“ A system of Correspondences consists of a set of symbols
which the concrete mind can apprehend and a knowledge of the
association chains which connect them with each other; this know­
ledge is absolutely essential for occult development.”
Or for magic, black or white!
K u n d a l i n i - Y oga
The Kundalini-Yoga in one form or another is
found in all these sects; it is the basis of their attraction
and power. Without it they could not exist, there would
be no mysterious Overmasters pouring out suggestive
and intriguing teachings, giving directions and seemingly
wise advice; there would be no seeing of visions and
hearing of voices, there would be no going out into the
profane world orienting minds by means of these
insidious teachings, drawing into the nets the unwary
and sometimes genuine seeker after truth, but more often
the craver after excitement, looking for something to
enhance or give interest to an otherwise colourless life,
enticed by the promise of awakening hitherto unsuspected
and mysterious powers—but always under control and
ostensibly for the betterment of collective Humanity.
Binding the members together with an oath of secrecy
and blind obedience—the secrecy of their contact with
these Masters or Elder Brethren who, through these
2 3 6 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
pseudo-mysteries and their dupes, would govern the
world and usurp authority.
In his book Serpent Power, 1919, Arthur Avalon
(Sir John Woodroffe) writes:
“ The Tantras say that it is in the power of man to accom­
plish all he wishes if he centres his will thereon . . . for man,
they say, is in his essence one with the Supreme Lord [Universal
Creative Principle.], and the more he manifests spirit [astral light]
the greater he is endowed with its powers. . . . The object of
the Tantric rituals is to raise these various forms of power to their
fullest expression.”
The centre and root of these powers in man lies in
the Kundalini. Therefore we can understand why the
God of all these modern mysteries is the Universal Crea­
tive Principle, and the Kundalini within man is called
the “ God within ” or hidden god, and finally why man,
when filled to intoxication with this astral light, looks
upon himself as God, a deified and illuminated man.
Briefly, the Kundalini is the sex-force lying in three
and a half coils at the base of the spinal column. It is
that part of the Great Breath or Swara which is “ the
mightiest manifestation of creative power in the human
body.” It is formed of three energies: Ida, on the left
side of the spinal column, the Moon or feminine channel
(or Nadi); Pinggala, on the right side, the masculine
or Sun channel; Sushumna, the channel of the uniting
and dissolving Fire, within the column itself. It is the
“ Serpent Power,” the creator, preserver, and destroyer,
the I.A.O. of all Hermetic, Cabalistic, and Gnostic sects.
“ She, the subtlest of the subtle, holds within herself the
Mystery of creation, and by her radiance, it is said, the universe
is illumined, eternal knowledge awakened [subconscious] and
liberation attained. . . . She maintains all beings of the world
by means of inspiration and expiration.”
The Kundalini must first be roused by powerful
mind and will, along with suitable physical actions;certain
modes of training and worship are prescribed, the use
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 3 7
of images, emblems, symbols, pictures, mantras, and pro­
cesses, etc. Thus rendered active, it is drawn to the
cerebral centre, “ as in the case of ordinary positive and
negative electric charges which are themselves but other
manifestations of the universal polarity which affects the
manifested world.”
Pinggala when roused goes upward from right to
left, encircling the lotuses or chakras, these centres of
physical and psychic force, reaching the pineal gland,
at the root of the nose, between the eyebrows; Ida goes
from left to right, also encircling the chakras, rising to
the same centre between the eyebrows. These two, to­
gether with the Sushumna, form a plaited knot at this
same pineal gland. To be led up the “ Middle Path ” the
vital force must be withdrawn from both the Pinggala
and the Ida, devitalising the rest of the body for the time
being, and made to enter the Sushumna, piercing the
chakras on its upward path, absorbing into itself the
tattvas of each chakra, also the sub-tattvas with which
each in turn is intercharged. Thus we have the earth
tattva of the chakra at the base of the spine; water, the
spleen; fire, the navel or solar plexus; air, the heart;
ether, the throat. Passing from the gross to the subtle the
earth is dissolved in water, water absorbed by fire; fire
is sublimed by air and air by ether, and in absorbing
these tattvas the Kundalini is, as it were, rendered subtle
and freed from the gross. This by some is called trans­
mutation of the sex-force, leading to spiritual things,
but in reality it is only astral. Having united with the
universal in the cerebral centre, it then descends, at the
same time projecting back the tattvic forces into the
various chakras, agajn taking up its latent potential
position at the base of the spinal column, and the body
resumes its vitality. The longer it can be retained in
the cerebral centre, the seat of the “ Supreme Lord,”
the greater, it is said, will be the power and knowledge
acquired by the Yogi.
Such is the “ God within ” of all these various sects.
It is represented by the Caduceus of Hermes, with its
twin serpents, negative and positive, twining round the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
238
central rod, the spinal column, surmounted at the pineal
gland by the wings of what is called liberation; the ball
at the top of the rod being the pituitary body, the seat of
supreme power. Or as the Emerald Tablet of Hermes
expresses it:
“ What is below is like that which is above, and what is
above is similar to that which is below to accomplish the wonders
of one thing [manifestation]. Its father is the Sun; its mother
is the Moon, It is the cause of all perfection throughout the whole
earth [equilibrium],. The power is perfect if it is changed into
earth [fixation of the astral light in a material basis]. Separate
the earth from the fire, the subtle from the gross, acting prudently
and with judgment. Ascend with the greatest sagacity from
earth to heaven, and then descend again to earth and unite together
the things inferior and superior; thus you will possess the light
of the whole world, and all obscurity will fly away from you [the
ascent of the Kundalini or Serpent Power and the descent of
the Lightning Flash. It is the serpent pierced with an arrow,
fixation of the astral light in a material body, producing illumin­
ation or Illuminism], This thing has more fortitude than forti­
tude itself, because it will overcome every subtle thing and
penetrate every solid thing. By it the world was formed.”
It is the Universal Creative Principle, electro-magnetic
forces of life. It is force which can slay or make alive!
Further, Max Heindel, in his book Rosicrucian
Cosmo-Conception, gives the diagram of the three paths
taken by the Kundalini or unused sex-forces. He calls
them, right of the spinal column, mystic; left, occultist;
and central, adept. They all lead to illumination, that is,
clairvoyance, clairaudience, and impressional teaching.
These, in the form of mental suggestive processes, were
received by Dr. Felkin from Dr. Steiner, and given,
along with certain of Steiner’s meditations and breathing
exercises, to the members of the Stella Matutina, who
were merely told that these processes would awaken their
inner senses. To each of these three processes was
attached one of the three following names: Jakin, Boaz,
or Macbenac, representing the Kundalini forces, the
three Pillars found in all Masonry, the cabalistic Pillars
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 3 9
of Mercy, Severity, and Mildness of the Tree of Life.
According to Dr. Wynn Westcott, the cabalistic Tree of
Life is simply the Rabbinic form of the union of the
creative principle within man, with the Universal Crea­
tive Principle without. And as Max Heindel explains:
“ It will give first-hand knowledge of the superphysical
realms.”
The great danger of this Yoga as practised among
Western and modern Illumines would, therefore, appear
to be not only an intoxication of astral light, producing
illusions and deception, even mania, but also the serious
risk of a stronger mind, working on the astral plane,
taking possession of a weaker and less-informed mind,
using it for its own ends as in the case of these Masters
and Elder Brothers, who seem to be taken on trust by
the leaders of these cults. As Dion Fortune writes:
“ By thinking of the Masters we attract their attention, and
it is unbelievably easy to establish a magnetic link with those who
are always more ready to give than we are to receive; and if
anyone, after thinking about the Masters and formulating a wish
to be accepted as a pupil, finds that the circumstances of his life
are beginning to blow up a storm, he will know that his application
has been accepted and that the preliminary tests have begun.”
The Masters never take the pupils on trust, they test
them, they shape and hew them, until they are humbly
and blindly obedient, ready to do their appointed work
in the Great Plan of these “ Supermen.” And thus we
see the Western world permeated with leaders in Yoga
cults, only a little less ignorant than the men and women
they would instruct, all preparing the way for the
“ Masters,” whoever they may be.
O u s p e n s k y
First we will take P. D. Ouspensky, a Russian, as
depicted in his book A New Model of the Universe.
As regards Occultism, there is nothing really new in this
book, for it is based largely on the work of other writers,
with the idea of showing that most religions, cults, and
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
24O
occultism are merely “ pseudo.” As the author says:
“ When we find that religion is centuries . . . behind
science and philosophy, the main inference is that it is
. . . pseudo-religion.” The only real thing in his opinion
is “ esotericism,” which apparently means sensations and
teachings obtained by mysticism, induced by some form
of Yoga. All this is interwoven with his own vague ex­
periments, theories, and feelings. r- ,
He believes the world is controlled by an “ inner
circle.” “ True civilisation,” he says, “ exists only in
esotericism. . . . It is the inner cifcle which is, in fact,
the truly civilised portion of humanity.” Here is his
theory of the growth of the inner circle: Adam and Eve
were issued from Nature’s Great Laboratory and ap­
peared upon earth; for a time they were helped by the
powers who created them. Men at first were incapable of
making mistakes, and so advanced rapidly, but as time
went on they.believed they knew good from evil, and
were able to guide themselves. They then made mis­
take after mistake, until they gradually fell to the level
from which they rose “ plus the acquired sin ” ! A
certain number made no mistakes, and were able to
preserve all knowledge that was really valuable for cul­
ture; these then became the “ inner circle ” (we presume
the Elder Brothers of the Great White Lodge!). This
inner circle took the place of the powers who created
men. Their religion is esotericism; all others, therefore,
are “ pseudo.” Such are the uninspired and uninspiring
theories of Ouspensky^, which appear to us to be not even
original!
His chapters on the Tarot cards and the various
forms of Yoga are taken from books already well known.
He thus explains the powers gained by means of first-
jRaja-Yoga:
“ As a result man attains a state of extraordinary freedom
and power. He not only controls himself, but is able to control
others. He can read the thoughts of other people whether they
are near him or at a distance; he can suggest to them his own
thoughts and desires and subordinate them to himself. He can
acquire clairvoyance, he can know the past and future."
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2\t
Karma-Yoga, which means non-attachment,
“ teaches man . . . that in reality it is not he who acts,
but only a power passing through him.” He rarely acts
“ independently, but in most cases only as part of one
or another great whole ”—no doubt governed by forces
and laws often set in motion by the “ inner circle ” for
their own ends! Hatha-Yoga is attainment by control
over the body and physical nature of man. “ By learn­
ing to govern their own bodies Yogis at the same time
learn to govern the whole of the material universe,”
that is, the development of will and thought power.
JnanarYoga uses the methods of Raja-Yoga, and is said
to educate the mind and reveal the fundamental laws of
the universe. Bhakti-Yoga teaches how to believe, pray,
and attain certain salvation; in it differences of religion
do not exist. "
Ouspensky insists that Yoga must be practised only
under a teacher, yet apparently he carries out, on his
own, mystical experiments which, if controlled by some
unknown group, might lead to anything from outside
suggestion to obsession. He writes:
“ During the first experiments . . . I felt that I was disap­
pearing, vanishing, turning into nothing . . . in one case it was
All that swallowed me up, in the other it was Nothing . . . in
subsequent experiments the same sensation of the disappearance
of ' I ’ began to produce in me a feeling of extraordinary calmness
and confidence. . . . When I felt that I did not exist, every­
thing else became very simple and easy."
Then he began to get teaching! This is common
to all occult schools, and more generally means control
by some outside influence. Also, as we know, the so-
called transmutation or rather perversion of sex-force
is the basis of all such experiments in Yoga. As he ex­
plains, sex-force is used for “ the development of man
in the direction of the acquisition by him of higher con­
sciousness and the opening-up of his latent forces and
faculties. The explanation of this latter possibility in
connection with the using of sex-energy for this purpose,
forms the content and meaning of all esoteric teachings.”
16
242 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
He speaks of Yogi Ramakrishna, who was a Bhakti-
Yogi, and lived in the “eighties ” of last century, in the
monastery Dakshineswar, near Calcutta. “ He recog­
nised as equal all religions with all their dogmas, sacra­
ments, and rituals/’ For twelve years he (the Yogi)
experimented, in the way of asceticism, with all religions,
and according to himself, he attained the same results of
ecstasy, in each one, and therefore concluded that all
great religions were one. But his divine Mother was
the Great Mother Nature! and his ecstasy meant union
with the Universal Creative Force!
It is interesting and enlightening to know that
Swami Vivekananda, who went to America in 1893 to
take part in the “ Parliament of Religions,” was one of
Ramakrishna’s disciples! In his book, Mysticism in the
Court of Russia, J. Bricaud says: “ Certain writings
of Dostoiewsky, Tolstoi, and Merejkovsky have revealed
to Western people the secret nature of the Russian soul,
tormented and eager for the marvellous.” Is Ouspensky
not just one more of these Russian souls, eager for the
marvellous, as shown in his experiments, and his vague
self-induced pseudo-mystic sensations described as felt
by him at the Pyramids, Taj Mahal, etc.? Is it not this
pseudo-mysticism in their tools that is required by those
who would secretly control and dominate mankind?
Ouspensky was for a time a disciple of Gurdjieff,
that strange man who, for a time, held extraordinary
sway over many and varied followers at Fontainebleau,
and who is now apparently in New York. It is small
wonder that we see America, to-day, rotten with the
canker of these cults so that even those who would save
their country are dominated by “ Elder Brothers ” of
one kind or another or steeped in a dangerous and mis­
taken mysticism, and spiritism.
V iv e k a n a n d a
In The Confusion of Tongues, 1929, Charles W.
Ferguson tells of the great Swami and Yogi invasion of
America during the last forty years. Of Swami Vive-
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 243
kananda he says: “ He was the first and greatest zealot
of the East to offer up the Hindu mysteries in palatable
form for American consumption.” In 1893 this Swami
went to America, chosen by his followers to represent
them at the Parliament of Religions which, in September
of that year, was held in Chicago. Arriving there in
July, he settled in one of its richest hotels. Soon his
money ran out, and, being without credentials, he was
told he would not be received at the Parliament of Reli­
gions when it opened. Sad and sorrowful, he set out
for Boston, and on the train a kindly lady took charge
of him and made her home his headquarters. In Boston
he was taken up by the Harvard professors, and when
the time came he was dispatched to Chicago armed with
the required credentials, and finally found his way to the
Parliament of Religions. There, among the varied sects
and cults, he was an immense success, and gave great
impetus to all movements which preached the “ divinity
of man ” ; he was lionised, and lectured far and wide.
In New York he established a Vedanta Society, which
spread and was well supported. It was his avowed pur­
pose to unify and synthesise the East and West, but what
he chiefly did was to prepare the way for a horde of
lesser figures, who, no doubt, carried his mission far
beyond his own ultimate aim. He made America India­
conscious and made Hindu philosophy popular.
In his philosophy and teachings as given in The
Life of Swami Vivekanandaj by his Eastern and Western
disciples, 1912-15, his lectures on Raja-Yoga, or the
conquering of interior nature, teach that the goal of
life “ is to manifest this divinity within by controlling
nature, internal and external,” and that all Indian philo­
sophies have one object, “ that is, the liberation of the
soul [the 'god within’!] through perfection.” Further:
“ When the Yogi becomes perfect, there will be nothing in
nature not under his control. If he orders the gods to come, they
will come at his bidding. All the forces of Nature will obey him
as slaves, and when the ignorant see these powers of the Yogi
they will call them miracles. Nature is ready to give up her
secrets . . . through concentration. There is no limit to the power
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
of the human mind. The more concentrated it is, the more
power is brought to bear on one point, and that is the secret.”
As Mr. Ferguson remarks:
“ Raja-Yoga, disclaiming and discounting the religious motive,
proposes none the less to make man the king of high heaven and
the engineer of the cosmos. . . . If we may judge from testi­
monials, what those who follow the Swamis and Yogis want in
the way of modern religion is a quick relief from neurasthenia
and frustration . . . and a temporary surcease from the fascinating
but at times maddening world in which we live.”
He then briefly gives the eight steps of Raja-Yoga
which lead to full initiation, and which must be practised
under an inspired teacher: Yama, in which the pupil
masters himself, becomes trustful and self-reliant, and
surrenders himself to what he conceives to be God;
Ascmcij a series of exercises and postures designed to put
the body completely at the mercy of the mind. Pratya-
hara, a method of making the mind relentlessly intro­
spective; Dharana, a process through which concentra­
tion is achieved; Shyana, or holy meditation upon lofty
ideas; and Samadhij in which the individual at last rises
to complete super-consciousness and lives in a realm
where ailments and limitations of the body exercise no
influence over him. Again: “ If one stays doggedly at
the ritual of breathing, the sacred fluid of kundalini [sex-
force], having its residence at the seat of the spinal
column, will be aroused . . . then the book of knowledge
will be opened.” This is obtained by controlling the
Prana, the dual forces of the universe, which manifests
itself as motion, gravitation, and magnetism in the
cosmos, and as nerve-currents and thought-force in the
body.
244
Y ogananda
Among the horde of Swamis and Yogis who have
exploited these powers by Americanising and commer­
cialising Yoga, Swami Yogananda is, or was, apparently
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 4 5
one of the most successful. He arrived in America,
1920, to attend the International Congress of Religions
at Boston, and his first centre was organised there, but
later headquarters were at the Mount Washington Centre
of Yogoda and Sat-Sanga, in California. Yogoda means
a system which “ teaches one to harmonise all the facul­
ties and forces that operate for the perfection of mind,
body, and soul.” Sat-Sanga means " Fellowship with
Truth.” In 1929 he claimed 20,000 students of his
system, with centres in eight leading cities, and also a
bi-monthly magazine East-West Magazine. He wishes
to establish “ How to live schools ” throughout the
world.
Roughly, the science of Yogoda lies apparently in
magnetising the spinal column and using this electricity
stored in the body and lodged in the brain as the chief
power-house, and ultimately bliss is said to settle over
the physique and the pleasures of the flesh are forgotten.
Finally, advertised as a system of bodily perfection for
the “ busy aspiring Western peoples,” it “ uses the will to
re-charge the body-battery from the cosmic life-current,
and thus produce a fatigueless state.” Further:
“ It also includes the highest technique of meditation and
concentration by the psycho-physiological methods taught by the
great saints and sages of India. How to see the vital force and
hear the cosmic vibrations. . . . Yogoda quickens man’s evolu­
tion through an intelligent co-operation with cosmic law. It
restores his eternal heritage, and gives him realisation of himself
as the immortal life energy
In England we are not without our quota of exploit­
ing and proselytising Swamis and Yogis, and what we
would emphasise is, that such a crude form of Eastern
Yoga, when applied to Western mentality, whether in the
form of Indian or Tibetan systems or the Magical Cabala
of the Jews, merely results in a hypnotic passivity or un­
balance, through an over-charge of astral light, and is
destructive to Western virility and mental power, which
will end in submerging Western and Christian traditions,
leaving the nations an easy prey to domination by their
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
ever-watchful and secret enemies. Also we must never
forget that these cosmic and vital forces can both slay
and make alive, bodily and mentally, and in the hands of
ambitious and unscrupulous men, “ Supermen,” “ Elder
Brothers,” or the whole gamut of those who astrally con­
trol these sects and cults which have eaten into the life
of the Western World to-day, this Yoga teaching can be
a deadly weapon of power for evil domination or ven­
geance, under the masquerade of soul-development or
religious attainment.
2 4 6
Meher Baba
Another less powerful but more theatrical figure is
Shri Meher Baba, known as “ The New Messiah.” John
Bull, 7 May, 1932, published, “ after having completed
a thorough investigation into his operations of recent
years,” some interesting details as to who he is and how
he arose out of obscurity into publicity, using theatrical
methods which gave him a certain notoriety. His agent
for Europe and America was a man not unknown among
circles of Illuminati in England, and it was at his farm
in the south of England, where a colony of devotees num­
bering about twenty, men and women, young and old,
white and coloured, settled down for some little time to
attain “ the Greater Realisation,” through Meher Baba’s
teaching. Paul Brunton, in A Search in Secret India,
tells us that “ his personal name is Meher, but he calls
himself Sadguru Meher Baba. Sadguru means ‘perfect
master,’ while Baba is simply a term of affection in
common use among some of the Indian peoples.” His
father is a Persian and Zoroastrian, and Meher Baba
was born at Poona in 1894 and led a normal life until
he was about twenty, when he came in contact with “ a
well-known Muhammadan woman faqueer, Hazrat Baba-
jan,” who in some way unbalanced his mind. Some
believe he has never completely recovered.
John Bull informs us that up to his somewhat recent
“ call ” to Messiahship his means of livelihood was selling
native liquor in the byways of Nasik, where, in 1932,
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 4 7
he had apparently only a few thousand followers. Al­
though his fame in India is but limited, many of his
followers are wealthy, and he was able to raise large
sums, which he used to finance various schemes for
publicity purposes. One was a cinema to be built in
Nasik, but because of calls from creditors and lack of
funds it was never completed. Another was a school at
Ahmadnagar for boys of various castes, creeds, and
races, who were to be spiritually trained to act as his
“ ambassadors ” or minor Messiahs in all parts of the
world. He even attempted, by means of an emissary,
to draw European boys out to this school; final arrange­
ments were concluded by his agent, but the authorities
intervened, and the boys remained at home.
As to Meher Baba’s cult, it is so-called yoga, a
speeding-up method of working on the Kundalini and
awakening the latent senses or, as they say, becoming
“ acquainted with those forces which, when liberated, will
enable the student to realise greater possibilities in ac­
cordance with the inner laws of Nature and Life.” To
further this process there was sun-bathing, violent physi­
cal exercises in the open air, the study of all psychological
problems, and a general leading of the simple life under
Meher Baba’s instructions. One may ridicule such
mushroom-growths, gurus who cover their comparative
ignorance and incapacity as teachers by spectacular
stunts such as the “ silence,” which for quite a number
of years Meher Baba has imposed upon himself as a
preparation for his future mighty calling, his lack of
speech being supplied by an alphabet board, which he
works like a typewriter while a disciple interprets, his
meaning and teachings. He believes there will be a
great war, and when that comes his tongue will be
loosened and he will teach and lead all peoples and bring
in peace; until then silence!
Paul Brunton adds as a note to his account of “ The
New Messiah” :
“ Meher Baba has since appeared in the West, and a Western
cult has started to gather around him. He still promises won-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
248
derful things, which will happen when he breaks his silence. He
has several times visited England, has acquired a following in
France, Spain, and Turkey, and has been twice to Persia. He
made a theatrical journey across the continent of America with a
mixed retinue of men and women. When he arrived in Holly­
wood, he was given a royal reception; Mary Pickford entertained
him in her home, Tallulah Bankhead became interested in him,
while a thousand leading people were presented to him at Holly­
wood's largest hotel. A large tract of land was acquired in the
United States to establish his Western headquarters. Meanwhile,
dumbness still lies on his lips, the while he flits impulsively from
country to country on brief visits. At last he has been brought
into the glare of notoriety.”
Summarising Meher Baba and his experience with
the old fakir woman, he says:
“ I believe that the youthful Meher became quite unbalanced
as a result of this unexpected experience. This was obvious
enough when he fell into a condition of semi-idiocy and behaved
like a human robot, but it is not so obvious now that he has
recovered sanity. I do not believe that he has returned to
normality as a human being. To some people, a sudden overdose
of religion, Yogic trance, or mystic ecstasy, is as unbalancing as
a sudden overdose of certain drugs. . . .”
As we know, however, this pseudo-liberation, as
practised in all these modern groups, carries with it no
uncertain dangers—mental, moral, and physical—but
fanatical and perhaps somewhat hypnotised enthusiasts
are always ready to take risks in their search for the
excitement of what they call spiritual-uplift, which so
often ends in mediumship exploited by some unknown
powers for political and subversive ends. We have only
to look among our so-called intellectuals to realise this.
America, where Meher Baba goes to spread this Yoga-
craze, is perhaps more susceptible than England to the
virus of this poison, which acts as a dope, playing up
to the restless craving of some of its citizens for psychi­
cal experiences, so often in that country quite frankly
applied to mere material business and commercial ends,
or it may even be, to further subversive political schemes.
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 4 9
Moreover, the modern craze for Illuminism is not
less disintegrating- and demoralising. Felix Guyot,
apparently a Martinist, in a book on Yoga for the West,
reveals some dangerous methods which, he claims, lead
to illumination and contact with the Masters, methods
which he has been practising for over thirty years, and
which are curiously akin to those taught in the Stella
Matutina and R.R. et A.C., the Anthroposophical Society,
etc., which are Martinist and Rosicrucian. He says that
“ humanity is moving backwards, we are under the rule
of the Beast.” But is it not rather the rule of the
cabalistic Jew, using the serpent or sex-force in his
system of Illuminism?
To act upon the Kundalini or sex-force and bring
about union with these Masters, monoideism or concen­
tration, with gymnastic, breathing, and psychic exercises,
some of them exceedingly and admittedly dangerous,
leading to possible death or obsession, are expounded by
M. Guyot. He says:
“ [Sexual desire] is a rich source of energy which, if properly
employed, can be of very great assistance in the sphere of
occultism. . . . If you check and control the reserve of force of
which the sexual organs are the source, you will be able to direct
it towards the goal you have in view, and use it for your own
ends . . . and when the time comes, on another plane.”
To forward this Illuminism students “ must not only
wipe out their own special hatreds but really suppress
the capacity of hatred . . . in favour of love.” This
is perhaps the underlying cause of so much unnatural
and unbalanced pacifism, especially seen among members
of these sects.
Further:
“ Students will have to adopt a religion to sustain and help
them during their psychic training [to give them the uplift!] . . .
for the moment it is not a matter of believing but of acting as
though you did believe. . . . The mythical entities of the religion
chosen will play a considerable practical part in the various psychic
exercises. . . . We think the best religions are the Jewish re-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
250
ligion, as set forth in the Cabala, the Roman Catholic religion in
its esoteric aspect, Buddhism, and especially Hinduism. Finally,
Freemasonry can very adequately take the place of a religion, but
it must be based on Martinism, which is its source.”
This means Illuminised Masonry as in France in
1789 and since, and this Jew-dominated Masonry has
always been, and still is, the well-spring- of all modern
revolutions.
Abstract diagrams and mantrams along with breath­
ing exercises are, he says, the key to supernormal cog­
nition. He thus explains this dangerous magical
practice:
“ If the experiment is successful . . . you will experience a
feeling of cold at the extremities, especially in your hands, and
you will tremble slightly. At the same time you will feel a
sensation, which cannot be explained to those who have not
experienced it, as though an extraneous entity entered into you.
. . . You will then find that a series of images, and afterwards
of intuitions, come into your mind very quickly, but characterised
by the fact that it seems to you that it is not you who are thinking,
and that things are being revealed to you by another through the
medium of a sort of internal illumination.”
The author notes: “ This is the inspiration of the
pythonesses of antiquity. It is the first degree of
ecstasy. By various processes the Rosicrucians and
Martinists tried to bring about this ecstasy, and that is
why the Martinists called themselves the Illuminated.”
The author puts this on the Mental Plane and says:
“ By means of thought transmission you will be able to
communicate with the Masters, which will be of great
assistance in completing your initiation (or illumina­
tion ).” He claims that “ the experimenter is not pos­
sessed/’ Nevertheless, he is for the time possessed and
controlled on the astral plane, and is being shaped and
hewn, receiving the Master’s forces and instructions
which eventually orient his whole outlook on life; or if
the experimenter be a leader of a group, the result is
devastating to the mentality of many. Again, M. Guyot
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2 5 1
says: “ By becoming more proficient in certain exercises
we can succeed in bringing other people under the same
influence, that is, we can convert our own particular
hallucination into a collective hallucination. That is
true both of positive and negative hallucinations.” Here
we have a terrible and dangerous power, mass suggestion
often creating a powerful body of hypnotised and fanati-
cised adepts and others working out the World Plan of
an unknown and invisible group of ambitious mystics and
occultists, themselves fanatics.
Of the Pythonesses of the ancient Mysteries we read
in Dieu et les Dieux, by des Mousseaux:
“ It seems that the immodesty of the phallic cult crept even
into the Delphic sanctuary of Apollo-Bacchus, even into the method
of putting the priestess [or as she was called, pythoness] into
communication with her God [creative principle], uniting the two
in order to make Divinity speak through a mortal mouth. . . .
In this temple the prophetess is seated on a tripod. Soon her
hair bristles, her eyes roll with blood and flame, her muscles are
convulsed, the breath of the God animates her, and the vapours
from the sacred cave penetrate into her through the tripod. . . .
She is exalted to fury . . . and often the last of her prophetic
movements is death. . . . To predict, is for her a terror. . . .”
There is an American group which is a striking
political example of this Illuminism, communications
psychically received by its leader from some unknown
“ Elder Brother,” whose watchword is apparently
“ Peace.” Here and there in the publications of this
association, of which we will speak later, we find this
same occultism—the use of the sex-force, speculations on
reincarnation and karma, and messages and instructions
received from their Master, for some would-be great
political regeneration.
The following is another, a religious example, of
these same methods of invisible control. There was
given in the Morning Post, 2 February, 1931, a short
account of a trance sermon delivered at the Fortune
Theatre, through Mrs. Meurig Morris by her control,
who called himself “ Power.” To those who have any
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
252
knowledge of illuminised sects, there is absolutely nothing
new in what he said. He thus explains himself: “ Re­
member that I, like others who have changed, am still
an intelligent being.” That is, though “ regenerated ”
or illuminated, he is still a man of flesh and blood, like
all masters of Illuminism, invisible or otherwise.
For example, in the Goldern Dawn the “ Hidden
Chiefs ” were “ Great Adepts of this Planet still in the
body of the flesh.” And the Mithraic Sun Masters of
the same Order said: “ The Masters of Wisdom are
mortal men . . . in thy higher self [Kether of the Cabal-
istic Tree of Life] thou shalt hear my voice; when thou
art willing to obey that voice of silence.... I am guiding
thee.” Thus this “ voice within ” is not that of a spirit
nor yet is it divine, but merely that of a controlling
“ mortal man,” influencing the medium from outside,
and it may be from a distance—an unknown illuminatus!
“ Power ” further explains: “ I use her in this way:
At the top of her head there is a large cone-like shape
[pituitary body!]. It is down this cone, like a passage
[or funnel] that the power is poured. I am able to play
and work on the brain, and use the whole body as I will,
while the control is taking place.” This is hypnotic
control or possession, and appears to be somewhat similar
to the method taught and attempted by the R.R. et A.C.
masters when seeking to gain permanent control over
the Chief and the Order. According to them the trans­
mission of the forces, set in motion by thought and will­
power, from the mental plane above to the material plane
below, is in the form of a double cone or hour-glass; the
power from above transmits the force through the upper
cone, and by means of the lower translates it to the passive
and prepared medium below, along the etheric thread of
communication (see Light Bearers of Darkness, pp. 124
and 134). This method has also been compared by other
occultists to the action of a waterspout or whirlwind,
creating a vortex down which the forces rush.
Again “ Power ” says: “ Why, it may be asked, do I
arrive the minute the hymn begins? ” Now it is known
that in illuminised sects and Yoga mantras and rhythmic
FRATERNITY OF INNER LIGHT AND YO
G
A 2 5 3
movements, such as the vibration of so-called divine
names and formulas, the Eurhythmy of Steiner, and in
other groups specially intoned hymns are used to awaken
the necessary vibrations, setting in motion the whirling
forces which attract and bring down the Master’s forces
from above, creating the etheric link, concentrating the
forces on the prepared focal-point—in this case Mrs.
Meurig Morris. As we have seen this method is applied
to religious, political, and educational groups, all for the
purpose of subversion.
“ Power ” is therefore one of these hidden Masters,
men who have investigated and experimented with laws
of nature unknown to most people, and have become
adepts in manipulating these finer secret forces, creative
forces of the universe, using their knowledge to gain
power over their fellow-creatures, and through them
aspiring to World Domination. No doubt he is an
“ Elder Brother ” seeking through Mrs. Meurig Morris
to create a magnetic chain of religious ideas necessary for
the Great Plan.
The following curious piece of intriguing informa­
tion is given by Rene Guenon in his Theosophismc:
Eliphas Levi, the occultist and Martinist, who died in
1875, had announced that in 1879 a new “ Universal
Kingdom,” political and religious, would be established,
and that this kingdom would belong “ to him who would
have the keys of the East,” that is, the Keys of Solomon,
and that these keys would be possessed “ by the nation
whose life and activity was most intelligent.” This pre­
diction was contained in a manuscript which was in the
possession of an occultist of Marseilles, pupil of Eliphas
Levi, the Baron Spedalieri, who gave it to Edward Mait­
land, who in turn passed it on to Dr. Wynn Westcott,
Supreme Magus of the Societas Rosieruciana in Anglia,
member of the Theosophical Society, and one of the
founders of the Golden Dawn. Finally, the latter pub­
lished it in 1896, under the title of “ The Magical Ritual
of the Sanctum Regnum.” It is said that Spedalieri was
a member of the “ Grand Lodge of the Solitary Brethren
of the Mountain,” an illuminised Brother of the Ancient
THE TRAIL O
F THE SERPENT
254
Restored Order of the Manichaeans, “ a high member of
the Grand Orient,” and also a “ High Illuminate of the
Martinists.” The dream of the Grand Orient is, as is
well known, Universal Masonry.
Now, Eliphas Levi, in his book Transcendental
Magic, describes this Sanctum Regnum as magical omni­
potence, the knowledge and power of the Magi for which
is required an intelligence enlightened by study, indomit­
able courage, and a will which cannot be broken, and
finally prudence, which nothing can corrupt or intoxicate.
“ To know, to dare, to will, to keep silence.” It is the
invisible “ Holy Empire ” over all peoples and over all
nations. The Pentagram is its guiding star, the sym­
bolism of Illuminism, the star of revolution. Its symbol
of power is the Interlaced Triangles, the Seal of Solomon,
the seven powers representing complete magical power
through the knowledge, in all its combinations, of the
magnetic currents of attraction and repulsion in all
nature. He who has this power and can wield it has
“the Keys of the East.”
The Great Work which is to prepare the way for the
establishment of the “ Universal Kingdom ” is the forma­
tion of the magnetic-chain. To form this is, according
to Eliphas Levi,
“ to originate a current of ideas which produces faith and draws
a large number of wills in a given circle of active manifestation.
A well-formed chain is like a whirlpool which sucks down and
absorbs all. . . . To be able to apply these currents and direct
them is to be Master of the World. Armed with such a force
you may make yourself adored, the crowd will believe you are
God.”
For many years we have seen the insidious cankerous
growth of this magnetic-chain of these ideas, not only in
England, but throughout the entire world, largely set in
motion by the Invisible Power which works through these
many secret revolutionary movements, even those ap­
parently innocent and harmless, perverting, debasing,
and disintegrating religion, ethics, art, literature, politics,
sociology, and economics, making way for the “ Universal
FRATERNITY O
F INNER LIGHT AND YOGA 2$5
Kingdom/’ political and religious, which is to be ruled by
the Signet of Solomon, the Hebrew Talisman!
As M. Flavien Brenier remarks in his book Les Juifs
et le Talmud:
“ One cannot fail to be struck by the similarity which exists
between the doctrines of the Pharisees twenty-five centuries old
[borrowed from the Chaldeans of Babylon] and those professed
in our days by the disciples of Allan Kardec or of Mme Blavatsky.
The most important difference is that the final blessing is reserved
by the Talmud for Jews alone, whilst Spiritists and Theosophists
affirm that all beings will attain it.”
As the Talmud says: “ The Messiah will give the
Royal Sceptre to the Jew, all peoples will serve him, and
all kingdoms will be subject to him.”
Rabbi Benamozegh, in Israel et I’humanite, wrote of
the coming power of the Jewish Magical Cabala:
“ Is it surprising that Judaism has been accused of forming
a branch of Freemasonry? What is certain is, that Masonic
theology is, at the bottom, merely Theosophy, and corresponds
to that of the Cabala. On the other hand a profound study of
Rabbinic monuments of the first centuries of the Christian era
furnishes numerous proofs that the aggada was the popular form
of a reserved science, offering, by methods of initiation, the most
striking resemblances to the Freemasonic institution. Those who
will take the trouble to examine with care the connection between
Judaism and philosophic Freemasonry, Theosophy, and the
Mysteries in general, will lose, we are convinced, a little of their
superb disdain for the Cabala. They will cease to smile in pity
at the idea that cabalistic theology may have a role to play in the
religious transformations of the future. . . . We do not hesitate
to repeat that this doctrine, which draws together to the heart of
Judaism the Semite and Aryan elements, contains also the key
to the modern religious problem.”
CHAPTER XI
ALEISTER CROWLEY AND THE GOLDEN
DAWN
Again, to quote the Anatomy of Revolution, we find
G.G. writing:
“ And just as we found that the group of German, Irish,
Indian, Turkish, and Egyptian societies was linked together by an
interlocking membership, so we find that these Arcane orders are
also in like manner connected. This is not the place to go into
the ramifications of the strange mystical revolutionary societies of
Europe, America, and the East. I shall refer only to the ‘ Ordre
Renove des Illuminati Germanise ’ and the ‘ Rose-Croix Esoteri-
que.’ both founded by men with names that are either German or
Jewish. [Leopold Engel and Franz Hartmann.] The latter
society appears to be the inner ring of the Order of the Templars
of the Orient, founded about a generation ago by another man
with a German name. [Dr. Karl Kellner, 1895, and from 1905,
Theodor Reuss.] And with this Ordo Templarum Orientis, we
find associated the notorious Aleister Crowley, whose relations
with Germans and Irish revolutionaries during the war earned
for him the attention of the police of the United States of
America. . .
At the end of his book, Les Illumines de Baviere,
1915, R. le Forestier speaks of the revival of the Order of
the Illuminati by Leopold Engel. He is rather indefinite
as to date, but says it had its centre in Berlin, and had, as
required, been reported to the police. He quotes Engel
as saying:
" They gradually came to believe that it would be possible to
give something definite to the adepts in order to reach an ideal
goal by means of Weishaupt’s theories.”
We need not repeat what we have already written
about Aleister Crowley in Light Bearers of Darkness,
256
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 2 5 7
except to give a few necessary facts for the understand­
ing of what follows. He is a man of many aliases, such
as: Count Svareff, Count Skellatt, Count Skerrett,
Edward Aleister, Lord Boleskine, Baron Rosenkreutz,
Count Macgregor, Count Mac Gregor, Eerskine, Per-
durabo Baphomet, The Beast, Therion, and Thor
Kimalehto.
He was born at Leamington, 12 October, 1875, and
was undergraduate at Cambridge from 1895 to 1898.
In November 1898 he became a member of the “ Order
of the Golden Dawn,” where he was known as Per-
durabo; however, on account of his well-known repu­
tation, he was refused admission to the London Inner
Order, the R.R. et A.C. In 1900 he acted as emissary
for Macgregor Mathers, the Chief of the Golden Dawn,
who was at that time in Paris and who had sent Crowley
to London to put down the rebellion which had arisen
there owing to Mather’s arrogance. Crowley, however,
failed in his mission, and found himself eventually and
finally expelled from the London Temple of the Golden
Dawn. He nevertheless retained possession of all the
rituals and certain MSS., and from 1909 to 1913, by
direct orders, he said, of the Secret Chiefs, he published
these documents in his Equinox, “ The Review of Scien­
tific Illuminism,” under the title of “ The Temple of
Solomon the King.” This review, with these rituals as
teaching basis, was also the organ of his Order of the
A.A., the “ Atlantean Adepts ” or the Great White
Brotherhood, and closely allied to that were his “ Ordo
Templi Orientis ” and his “ Mysteria Mystica Maxima.”
His doctrine was: “ Do what thou wilt, shall be the whole
of the Law; Love is the Law; Love under Will.”
To go through the ten numbers of Vol. 1 of his
Equinox, is to realise the reason why he has been called
“ A Master of Corruption.” These, along with many
of his other writings, are a strange medley of sexualism,
mysticism, indecencies and blasphemies. And under­
lying all this pseudo-mysticism are to be found subversive
political activities. In the 19 Patriot, October 1922,
a credited authority writes:
17
THE TRAIL O
F THE SERPENT
258
“ We have before us, for example, a manifesto issued by the
‘ National Grand Lodge and Mystic Temple Verita Mystica of the
Ordo Templi Orientis, or Hermetic Brotherhood of Light,’ dated
22 January, 1917, at Ascona, Switzerland, and signed by J.
Adderley, Secretary. The manifesto announces that the head­
quarters of the Brotherhood has been transferred to Switzerland
‘ since the commencement of the World War.’ The ostensible
object of the manifesto is to end the war and to establish a new
order of Society, ‘ based on the principle of co-operation of all,
on the common possession of the soil and the means of production
by all.’ To this end it proposes a National Congress, to be held
at Ascona from the 15th to the 25th August following, and
announces that one of the attractions is to be a representation of
Aleister Crowley’s mystic poem ‘ The Ship.’ The document also
states that another centre of the ‘O.T.O.’ is New York, and we
may reasonably suppose that Aleister Crowley was organising this
centre during his war-visit to the U.S.A. It is at least certain
that he was busy in America from 1914 onwards."
We have in our possession a copy of Crowley’s book
Magick, by the Master Therion, 1929. We can only give
a few extracts and notes, showing the nature of its
contents and teachings.
The book opens with a Hymn to Pan! Io Pan!
Io Pan!, which seems to express the essence of his creed,
for, throughout, his book is tainted with gnostic and
sexual imagery. He writes: “ There is a single main
definition of the object of all magical Ritual. It is the
uniting of the Microcosm with the Macrocosm. The
Supreme and Complete Ritual is therefore the Invocation
of the Holy Guardian Angel; or, in the language of
Mysticism, Union with God.” That is, rousing the
kundalini, and uniting it with the universal magical
agent! And of this God he explains:
“ The testing of the spirits is the most important branch of
the whole tree of Magick. Without it, one is lost in the jungle
of delusion. Every spirit, up to God Himself, is ready to deceive
you if possible, to make himself out more important than he is.
. . . Remember that after all the highest of all the Gods is only
the Magus. . . . For the Gods are the enemies of Man; it is
Nature that Man must overcome ere he enter into his kingdom.
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 259
The true God is man. In man are all things hidden. Of these
the Gods, Nature, Time, all the powers of the universe are
rebellious slaves. It is these that men must fight and conquer
in the power, and in the name of the Beast that hath availed them,
the Titan, the Magus, the Man, whose number is six hundred
and threescore and six.”
The power of the Beast is universal generation, the
universal magnetic agent. Speaking of the Eucharist
of Scientific Illuminism he says:
“ Take a substance symbolic of the whole course of nature,
make it God, and consume it.” [It must be, he says, consumed
daily.] “ The magician becomes filled with God, fed upon God,
intoxicated with God. Little by little his body will become puri­
fied by the internal lustration of God; day by day his mortal
frame, shedding its earthly elements, will become in very truth the
Temple of the Holy Ghost. Day by Day matter is replaced by
Spirit, the human by the divine; ultimately the change will be
complete; God manifest in flesh will be his name.”
But his God is merely Nature’s creative principle,
again universal generative powers. Pan, Io Pan!
Requiring concentrated energy for his magical
operations, he explains:
“ The blood is the life. This simple statement is explained
by the Hindus by saying that the blood is the principal vehicle of
vital Prana. . . . It was the theory of the ancient Magicians, that
any living being is a storehouse of energy varying in quantity
according to the size and health of the animal, and in quality
according to its mental and moral character. At the death of the
animal this energy is liberated suddenly. [For magical purposes.]
The animal should therefore be killed within the Circle, or the
Triangle, as the case may be, so that its energy cannot escape. An
animal should be selected whose nature accords with that of the
ceremony. . . . For the highest spiritual working one must ac­
cordingly choose that victim which contains the greatest and purest
force. A male child of perfect innocence and high intelligence is
the most satisfactory and suitable victim. . . . Those magicians
who object to the use of blood have endeavoured to replace it with
incense. . . . But the bloody sacrifice, though more dangerous,
is more efficacious; and for nearly all purposes human sacrifice
is the best. The truly great Magician will be able to use his own
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
blood, or possibly that of a disciple, and that without sacrificing
the physical life irrevocably.”
He apparently would have us believe that the Great
War was the necessary bloody sacrifice for the Initiation
of a “ New Aeon ” ! He concludes: “ The animal should
be stabbed to the heart, or its throat severed, in either
case by the knife.” He refers us to Frazer’s “ Golden
Bough ” for practical details! Into such details we need
not enter here.
In Chapter XI of his book Magick, headed “ Of our
Lady Babalon and of the Beast whereon she rideth,”
Crowley writes:
“ The contents of this section, inasmuch as they concern Our
Lady, are too important and too sacred to be printed. They are
only communicated by Master Therion to chosen pupils in private
instructions.”
Towards the end of the book, page 345, Liber XV, he
gives the ritual of the O.T.O. (Ordo Templi Orientis),
The Catholic or Universal Gnostic Church. The Creed
is:
260
“ I believe in one secret and ineffable Lord; and in one Star
in the company of Stars of whose fire we are created, and to which
we shall return; and in one Father of Life, Mystery of Mystery,
in His name Chaos, the sole viceregent of the Sun on Earth; and
in one Air the nourisher of all that breathes. And I believe
in one Earth, the Mother of us all, and in one womb wherein all
men are begotten, and wherein they shall rest, Mystery of Mys­
tery, in her name Babalon. [Babylon, the Great Mother of the
idolatrous and abominable religions of the earth.] And I believe
in the Serpent and the Lion, Mystery of Mystery, in his name
Baphomet. [According to Eliphas Levi ‘ the Lion is the celestial
(astral) fire, while the serpents are the electric and magnetic
currents of the earth, the spirit of the seed.] And I believe in
one Gnostic and Catholic Church of Light, Love and Liberty, the
Word of whose Law is Thelima. And I believe in the communion
of Saints. And, forasmuch as meat and drink are transmuted
in us daily into spiritual substance, [life-force] I believe in the
miracle of the Mass. And I confess one Baptism of Wisdom
whereby we accomplish the Miracle of Incarnation. [Genera-
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 26l
tion.] And I confess my life one, individual, and eternal that
was, and is and is to come. [The universal magnetic life-force.] ”
The Priestess enters with a positive child on the right
and a negative child on the left and having placed the
paten before the “ Graal ” on the altar—that is the
material basis for the operation and the astral light or
vital force with which it is to be united—she, followed
by the children, “ moves in a serpentine manner involving
three and a half circles of the Temple . . . and so to the
Tomb in the West.” It represents the rousing of the
kundalini serpent with its three and a half coils at the
base of the spinal column.
The Priestess is enthroned upon the altar in the
East by the Priest, who consecrates her with water and
fire. There are three steps to the altar. On the first
step the Priest invokes:
“ O circle of Stars . . . not unto Thee may we attain, unless
Thine image be Love. Therefore by seed, root and stem and
bud and leaf and flower and fruit we do invoke The?. . . .”
The Priestess completely unrobed, answers:
“ But to love me is better than all things. . . . Put on the
wings, and arouse the coiled splendour within you (kundalini) ;
come unto m e! Sing the rapturous love song unto m e! . . .”
The Priest invokes, on the third step:
“ Thou that art One, our Lord in the Universe, the Sun, our
Lord in ourselves whose name is Mystery of Mystery. . . . Make
open the path of creation and of intelligence between us and our
minds. . . . Let thy light crystallise itself in our blood, fulfilling
us of Resurrection.”
The whole ceremony is a sensuous adoration of the
Great Mother Babalon in the person of the Priestess,
embodying their doctrine, “ Do what thou wilt shall be
the whole law. Love is the law; love under will.” It
ends with the Mystic Repast, the consecration and con­
summation of the elements, the Mystic Marriage! It is,
to say the least of it, a symbolic representation of
universal generation.
With regard to the “ Communion of the Saints,”
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
according to this ritual they are those who have from
generation to generation adored this Lord of Life and
Joy and manifested His glory to men. They include among
many others: Lao-tze, Dionysus, Hermes, Pan, Priapus,
Osiris, Melchizedeck, Amoun, Simon Magus, Manes,
Pythagoras, Merlin, Roger Bacon, Christian Rosen-
kreutz, Paracelsus, Andrea, Robertus de Fluctibus, Adam
Weishaupt, Goethe, Carl Kellner, Dr. Gerard Encausse
(Papus), Theodor Reuss, and Sir Aleister Crowley!
“ Oh, Sons of the Lion and the Snake! . . . May their
Essence be here present, potent, puissant, and paternal to
perfect this feast! ” So much for his Eucharist!
Of his Order of the A.A.—Atlantean Adepts—or
Great White Brotherhood, he divides it into three orders:
(1) The S.S., being the grades 8 = 3 to 10= 1; (2)
The R.C. (Rosicrucian), being the grades from 5 —6 to
7 = 4; (3) The G.D. (Golden Dawn), being the grades
from 0 = 0 to 4 = 7 with a connecting link (Portal?).
As has already been stated, his book 777 is largely com­
piled from correspondences culled from the early Golden
Dawn cabalistic “ Knowledge Lectures,” applied to the
Tree of Life. He has also apparently adapted the early
rituals of the Golden Dawn and the 5 = 6 ritual of the
R.R. et A.C. to suit his own idiosyncrasies. As he
expresses his rules:
“ All members must of necessity work in accordance with
the facts of Nature. . . . They must accept the Book of the Law
as the Word and the Letter of Truth, and the sole Rule of Life.
They must acknowledge the authority of the Beast 666 and of the
Scarlet Woman as in the book it is defined, and accept Their
Will as concentrating the Will of our whole Order. They must
accept the Crowned and Conquering Child as the Lord of the
Aeon, and exert themselves to establish His reign upon Earth.
They must acknowledge that 1The Word of the Law is Thelima/
and that ‘ Love is the Law, Love under Will.’ ” [That is the
Universal Gnostic Church as already described.]
His Order “ Mysteria M'ystica Maxima ” is, it would
seem, for the study and practice of his own adaptation
of Raja-Yoga, etc.
262
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 2 6 3
It is curious to find, in The Inner Light book service,
May 1933, organ of Dion Fortune’s “ Fraternity of Inner
Light,” the following statement:
“ The remaining stock of Crowley’s Magick is growing
steadily less. The type has been dispersed, and reprinting is
therefore impossible. This book will go to a very high price in a
few years’ time. We may mention that it contains a reprint of the
famous 777, which consists of the Tables of Correspondences.”
[Correspondences for magical conjurations and such operations!]
Some of Dion Fortune’s followers are seeking for some­
thing truly spiritual; is this what she feeds them on!
What is Magic? Papus, Dr. Gerard Encausse,
occultist and Martinist, from documentary and experi­
mental evidence shows “ how all magical operations are
scientific experiments carried out with forces still little
known but analogous in their laws to the most active
physical forces such as magnetism and electricity.” He
adds, “ The works of magic are dangerous.” Three
principles are required in such works: the human will
and intelligence, the directing principle; the material basis
on which it acts, the passive principle; the intermediary,
through which the mind and will act upon the material
basis, that dynamic vital force carried by the blood to
all organs, acting upon the nervous system, it is the motor
or life-principle. It is the OD of the Jews, the astral
light of the Martinists, the magnetic fluid of the Rosi-
crucians. As Eliphas Levi in his History of Magic
explains: There is a natural composite agent, a fluid, a
force, receptacle of vibrations and images, by the media­
tion of which every nervous apparatus is in secret com­
munication together. The existence of this universal
magnetic life-force and the possible use of it is the great
secret of practical magic; it is the wand of theurgy and
the key to black magic.
It is, he says, a blind force which warms, illuminates,
magnetises, attracts, repels, vivifies, destroys, coagulates,
separates, breaks, and conjoins everything under the im­
petus of powerful wills, some for the great good and others
for the great evil. It is the fire which Prometheus stole from
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
264
heaven, a consuming danger to those who make it sub­
serve their passions. As Eliphas Levi explains: “ Black
Magic may be defined as the art of inducing artificial
mania in ourselves and others ” ; and by acting upon 'the
nervous system, through a series of almost impossible
exercises, “ it becomes a kind of living galvanic pile
capable of condensing and projecting powerfully that
light which intoxicates or destroys.” It is the force
“ which slays and makes alive,” used in all illuminised
sects, whose God is the Creative Principle, this magnetic
life-force in all nature, the vivifying force being their
Christ; these forces are, therefore, said to be divine and
spiritual, although being merely Mother Nature’s forces
of creation, preservation and destruction, universal
generation. As has been said, all so-called divine or bar­
barous names used in their evocations simply set up
vibrations, awakening and reawakening these hidden
forces in man and in the universe as required for the
end in view, hence Crowley’s 777. Most of these sects
and orders are in fact merely nurseries, training un­
witting men and women to become the passive material
instrument in the hands of so-called “ White Brothers ”
or more truly black magicians.
As Paracelsus writes: “ The Chaldeans and Egyp­
tians used to make images according to the constellations
of the stars, and these images moved and talked, but
they did not know the powers that acted in them. Such
things are done by faith . . . but a devilish faith supported
by the desire for evil.” As a modern example of this
necromancy we read, in Letter on Occult Meditation,
193°, by Alice A. Bailey, of New York, theosophist and
occultist:
“ As you know, the Master makes a small image of the pro­
bationer, which image is stored in certain subterranean centres
in the Himalayas. The image is magnetically linked with the
probationer, and shows all the fluctuations of his nature. Being
composed of emotional and mental matter, it pulsates with every
vibration of those bodies. It shows their predominating hues,
and by studying it the Master can rapidly gauge the progress made
and judge when the probationer may be admitted into closer
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 2 6 5
relationship. The Master views the image at stated intervals,
rarely at first, as the progress made at the beginning stages is not
so rapid, but with ever-increasing frequency as the student of
meditation comprehends more readily and more consciously co­
operates. The Master, when inspecting the images works with
them, and through their means effects certain results . . . at
certain times the Master applies certain contacts to the images
and via them stimulates the bodies of the pupil. A time comes
when the Master sees, from his inspection of the image, that the
needed rate of vibration can be held, that the required eliminations
have been made, and a certain depth of colour attained. . . .
He becomes then an accepted disciple.”
Such is the teaching- given to Mrs. Bailey by her
Master of the Great White Lodge; it reads extremely
like black magic and devilish! Adepts trained in these
magic schools lose their “ I ” and become mere robots,
even as these images, and are thrown aside as empty
husks when no longer useful to their evil taskmasters.
.Study of the history and workings of all these secret
sects proves the truth of this, and always it has ended in
perversion for the purpose of domination, individual or
universal.
In La Messe Noire, 1924, J. Bricaud writes:
“ To-day, when our society is invaded by the eroticism of the
Middle Ages sorcery, the words Black Mass have last their primi­
tive meaning. . . . The mystic element weakening, sadism and
sensualism alone remained, degenerating these last years into a
vulgar orgy, so-called revival of pagan ceremonies, accompanied
by lewd scenes, excited by the rhythm of libidinous poetry and the
intoxication of oriental perfumes.”
It is mysticism inverted, it is a denial of Christ, and as
they say, homage to “ Him to whom wrong has been
done, the ancient outlaw unjustly driven out of Heaven.”
Lucifer! As Eliphas Levi exclaims: “ Lucifer—Light
Bearer—how strange a name attributed to the Spirit of
Darkness! It is he who carries the light and yet blinds
feeble souls.”
Gilles de Rais, Marechal of France, Sire de Laval,
Baron de Bretagne, was one of the most terrible examples
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
266
of the magical use of Black Mass in the desire for riches,
etc. Bricaud writes of him:
“ In these terrifying- scenes the mind of Gilles appeared to
darken; veritable fits of madness seized him. Desirous, at all
price, of obtaining from Satan the secret of the philosophic Stone
(in order to obtain gold), on the advice of his magicians he im­
molated children, consecrated them to the Devil, extracted their
blood and brains in order to form powerful philtres destined to
produce the expected prodigies. . . . The deed of accusation at
the opening of his trial reproached him with having sacrificed
140 children in his diabolical conjurations. . . . The secular Court
pronounced the penalty of death and confiscation of his goods.”
In London and elsewhere, we are told, Black Mass
is still performed, no doubt in a less terrifying form,
but nevertheless erotic and vicious, pandering to neurotic
and depraved minds, who in turn contaminate others,
insidiously infecting the sanity of the nation, sowing
seeds of chaos and putrefaction, moral, physical, and
mental. In the Morning Post, 16 January, 1931, there
was an interview with Mr. Harry Price, founder and
director of the National Laboratory for Psychical
Research, beaded “ Devil Worship in London.” It says:
“ Mr. Price spoke from close personal experience of the
practices which he described, and among a number of other striking
allegations he asserted that black magic, sorcery, and witchcraft are
practised in the London of to-day on a scale and with a freedom
undreamed of in the Middle Ages. Professors and leaders of the
cults, for the most part foreigners, make use of the same formulae
and incantations as the mediaeval necromancers. The cults are
increasing and attracting interest at such a pace that they will soon
assume such dimensions as to become a genuine menace to the
morals and sanity of the nation. . . . Celebrants of the Black
Mass and Devil Worship practised entirely without risk of conse­
quence, because there is no existing law under which proceedings
can be taken. . . . ' Interest in the occult,’ continued Mr. Price,
' is spreading by leaps and bounds, and I can safely say that there
are more devotees of the Black Arts in London to-day than ever
there were in the Middle Ages. They try by forms of black magic
to order events and to make things come to pass—they try to
raise the dead or injure people who are at a distance; they even
make use of wax dummies and the instruments of the mediaeval
ALEISTER CROW
LEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 2 6 7
wizard.' ” [Or the magnetised photograph used “ to help people ”
in the R.R. et A.C.!]
Mr. Price talked of attempts to transmute metals.
Mr. Price’s allegations have been supported by incontro­
vertible evidence of those who have been present, and an
account of a Bloomsbury Black Mass and its inevitable
and abominable conclusion was given in the Morning
Post, 19 January, 1931. The writer also stated that
Oxford and Cambridge and certain districts of London
are infested by these Black Art scoundrels, who thus
play"on the senses of their victims by a form of mass
hypnotism.
It has been said that, after the seizure of documents
and the exposure of Weishaupt’s Illuminati in 1786, a
law was passed by the English Parliament in 1799 pro­
hibiting all secret societies with the exception of Free­
masonry, and that this law has never been annulled!
Concluding his book on Black Mass, 1924, J.
Bricaud says:
“ It is certain, as we have shown, that the sacrilegious cere­
monies, the scenes of profanation have not disappeared. But they
have lost their primitive meaning and their psychological aspect is
no longer the same. To-day the followers of Satan put all their
ardour into the accomplishment of what they believe to be the
highest expression of sacrilege; they give themselves up to sensual
pleasures before a derisive Christ, the better to defy Him. Under
Louis XIV, it was still the rule to sacrifice a little child on the
altar. To-day it is no longer watered with blood, it is soiled with
filth. Modern Black Mass is no longer true Satanism. It is no
longer the monstrous revolt of the creature against the Creator,
the criminal revolt of man lost in hatred against the Divine Power.
His disgusting saturnalias and his orgies against Nature are merely
sadism.”
In a small pamphlet arranged by Dr. Wynn West-
cott, Supreme Magus of Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia,
and published by John M. Watkins, Cecil Court, London,
1916, we are given what is called “ Data of the History
of the Rosicrucians.” What chiefly interests us are the
notes on the founding of the S.R.I.A. and later the
Golden Dawn as follows:
268 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
“ In 1865 the Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia was designed by
Robert Wentworth Little (who rescued some rituals from the
store-room of Freemasons’ Hall), and Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie,
who had received Rosicrucian initiation in Austria, while living
with Count Apponyi as an English tutor, and also Authority to
form an English Masonic Rosicrucian Society. In 1866 the
Metropolitan College was founded; R. W. Little was chosen
Supreme Magus. . . .
“ Frater R. W. Little died in 1878, and Dr. William Robert
Woodman became Supreme Magus. . . . In 1880 the Soc. Rosie,
in U.S.A. was founded and recognised.
“ In 1887, by permission of S.D.A. (‘ Sapiens Dominabitur
Astris’), a Continental Rosicrucian Adept, the Isis-Urania Temple
of Hermetic Students of the G.D. (Golden Dawn) was formed
to give instruction in the mediaeval Occult Sciences. Fratres
M. E. V. (Magna est Veritas et Praevalebit—Dr. Woodman),
Supreme Magus of S.R.I.A., with S.A. (Sapere Aude—Dr. Wynn
Westcott) and S.R.M.D. (S. Rioghail Mo Dhream Macgregor
Mathers), became the Chiefs, and the latter wrote the rituals in
modern English from old Rosicrucian MSS. (the property of
Frater S.A.), supplemented by his own literary researches. Frater
D.D.C.F. (Deo Duce Comito Ferro—Mathers’s Inner motto), in
1892, supplied the ritual of an Adept Grade from materials ob­
tained from a Frater, L.E.T. (Dr. Thiesen of Liege, ‘ Lux e
Tenebres,’ according to Dr. Wynn Westcott), a Continental
Adept. Several other Temples sprang from the Isis-Urania, viz.
the Osiris, at Weston-super-Mare; the Horus, at Bradford; the
Amen Ra, at Edinburgh, and the Ahathoor, in Paris, in 1884
(1894), which was consecrated by F.E.R. (Fortiter). Frater
S.A. (Dr. Wynn Westcott) resigned from the Association in 1897,
and the English Temples soon after fell into abeyance (1900,
when the Temple in London revolted against Mathers). . . .
“ The revived Rosicrucian Lodges on the Continent of Europe
are carried on with great privacy, and their members do not openly
confess to their admission and membership. Several centres are
in active work under conditions derived from previous centuries
of usefulness. While studying and teaching theories of life and
its duties, and admitting members by ceremonial and ritual, many
groups of the Continental Rosicrucians are, as formerly, of both
sexes, and so are not necessarily Freemasons. As in the earliest
times the Rosicrucians not only studied, but went about doing good
and healing the sick and diseased, so now the Fratres to-day are
concerned in the study and administration of medicines [such as
ALEISTER CROWLEY AND THE GOLDEN DAWN 2 6 9
Steiner!], and in their manufacture upon old lines; they also teach
and practise the curative [also magical] effects of coloured light,
and cultivate mental processes which are believed to induce
spiritual enlightenment [Steiner’s processes for rousing the kunda-
lini!] and extended powers of the human senses, especially in the
directions of clairvoyance and clairaudience. Their teaching does
not necessarily include any Indian or Egyptian symbolism.”
“ Dr. Woodman in 1891 died during Xmas week . . . and
early in 1892 Dr. Wynn Westcott . . . was installed as Supreme
Magus. . . .”
In 1900 the London Temple of the Golden Dawn
broke with Mathers, who was then recognised Chief.
For two years it was ruled by an appointed Committee,
but in 1902 it returned to the rule of three Chiefs, the
following being elected: Dr. Fellcin, Mr. Brodie Innis,
and Mr. Bullock. In 1903 this group took the name of
the Stella Matutina under the same chiefs. In 1913,
Dr. and Mrs. Felkin received certain higher grades on
the Continent and linked up with Dr. Steiner.
Neither Dr. Wynn Westcott nor Aleister Crowley
ever had any connection with the Stella Matutina, official
or otherwise The present writer was initiated into the
Stella Matutina in 1908, and was appointed one of the
Ruling Chiefs of the S.M. and R.R. et A.C. in 1916, and
at no time ever had anything to do with the Golden Dawn
or Aleister Crowley.
CHAPTER X II
AMERICAN GROUPS
W e find much about this mysterious “ Inner Govern­
ment of the World,” which apparently ruled Mrs. Besant
and through her the Theosophical Society, of which she
was head, in a book, Initiation Human and Solar, 1933,
by Mrs. Alice A. Bailey, occultist and theosophist, New
York. It is published by the Lucis Publishing Co., New
York, and is dedicated “ To the Master K. H. (Koot
Humi).” This is the same “ Koot Hoomi ” of Mme
Blavatsky and Mrs. Besant! Of these Masters Mrs.
Besant wrote in a pamphlet, The Masters, 1912:
“ A Master is a term applied by Theosophists to denote
certain human beings, who have completed their human evolution,
have attained human perfection . . . have reached what the Chris­
tians call ‘ Salvation ’ and the Hindus and Buddhists ‘ Libera­
tion.’ . . . Those who are named M. (Morya) and K. H. (Koot
Hoomi) in The Occult World by Mr. Sinnett were the two Masters
who founded the Theosophical Society, using Colonel Olcott and
H. P. Blavatsky, both disciples of M., to lay its foundations; and
who gave Mr. Sinnett the materials from which he wrote his
famous books, the one named above and Esoteric Buddhism which
brought the light of Theosophy to thousands in the West. H. P.
Blavatsky has told how she met the Master M. on the bank of
the Serpentine, when she visited London in 1851.”
We would add, to show how in reality all these
groups, whether Theosophical or Rosicrucian, are linked
up under one sinister group of esoteric men, fanatically
imbued with the idea of World Domination: Dr. Felkin,
late head of the R.R. et A.C., possessed a fine photo­
graph, said to be “ Maitreya,” which hung over his desk,
and his daughter had one of “ Koot Hoomi ” in her room;
both were looked upon, by their owners, as “ Holy ” !
In her book Mrs. Bailey writes that this Inner
270
AMERICAN GROUPS 271
Government is a Hierarchy of Light, Elder Brothers.
First, there is the King Sanat Kumara, who is said to live
in Shamballa, a somewhat mythical or perhaps mysticaL
centre in the Gobi desert; he is the Lord of the World
and initiator (representing the Creative Principle)—and
around him is the Triad of manifestation. Below him,
manifesting the light or energy to the world, is this Triad
of Departmental heads: (1) Manu: racial government,
founding, directing, and dissolving racial types, produc­
ing those required for their plans. He visualises that
which has to be done, and by sound transmits the required
creative and destructive energy to his assistants. He is
said to live at Shigatse in the Himalayas. (2) Lord
Maitreya: Religion, World Teacher or Christ, initiator
of the mysteries and liberator. He is said to live in the
Himalayas. (3) Manachohan: he manipulates the forces
of Nature, and brings about civilisation as required.
Under these, she says, work the Masters of the
(Great White) Lodge, representing the seven rays or
planetary aspects of the Light. These as regents hold in
their hands the reins of government for continents and
nations, guiding their destinies; they impress and inspire
statesmen and rulers; they pour forth mental energy on
governing groups, bringing about desired results
wherever co-operation and receptive intuition can be
found. They are: Master Jupiter: lives in the Nilgherry
Hills. Holds the reins of government of India and a
large part of the Northern Frontier, and he must even­
tually guide India out of her present chaos and unrest
and form her diverse people into a synthesis. Master
Morya: lives in Shigatse, but is a Rajput Prince. He
works in connection with many organisations of an
esoteric or occult kind as well as through the politicians
and statesmen of the world, influencing more especially
those with international ideals. Koot Humi: lives at
Shigatse, but is a Kashmiri. Is in the line for World
Teacher to the sixth root race. Was educated at a
British university, widely read in current literature.
Concerns himself with vitalising certain great philoso­
phies, and interested in philanthropic agencies. His work
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
272
is largely Love—awakening the brotherhood idea. Master
Jesus: he lives in a Syrian body somewhere in the Holy
Land. He works with the masses rather than in­
dividuals; he is preparing the way in Europe and America
for the eventual coming of the World Teacher. “ Certain
great prelates of the Anglican and Catholic Churches are
wise agents of his.” Master Djwal Khul: lives in
Shigatse, is a Tibetan, and is called “ The Mes­
senger of the Masters.” Has profound knowledge of
the rays and planetary and solar influences, and works
with healers, welfare and philanthropic world move­
ments, such as the Red Cross.
Master Rakoczi: is a Hungarian, and lives in the
Carpathian Mountains. Was known as Comte de St.
Germain, Roger Bacon, and later Francis Bacon.
Works with the occult side of affairs in Europe, largely
through esoteric ritual and ceremonial, being vitally in­
terested in the effects of the ceremonial of the Free­
masons, of various fraternities, and of the Churches.
Acts practically in America and Europe as general
manager for carrying out the plans of the executive
council of the Lodge, which is an inner group of Masters
round the Three Lords. Master Hilarion: is a Cretan,
but lives chiefly in Egypt. He works with those who are
developing intuition, and his energy is behind Psychical
Research, and he initiated the Spiritualistic Movement,
and has all higher psychics under observation. There
are two English Masters; one lives in Great Britain, and
guides the Anglo-Saxon race and is behind the Labour
movement throughout the world and guides rising demo­
cracy. The key for the future is to be co-operation, not
competition; distribution, not centralisation. Master
Serapis: called the Egyptian, energises music, painting,
and drama. Master P.: Irish, works under Rakoczi in
North America; works esoterically with Christian Science
and New Thought; is training disciples for the Coming
of the Christ towards the middle or close of the present
century. Some of the Masters are expected to come out
among men towards the close of the century.
Moreover, she says, prior to the Coming, adjust-
AMERICAN GROUPS 273
ments will be made, so that at the head of all great or­
ganisations will be found either a master or an initiate,
as also at the head of certain great occult groups of the
Freemasons of the World and of the various great
divisions of the Church, also residing among many of
the Great Nations. Everywhere they are gathering in
those who in any way show a tendency to respond to high
vibrations seeking to force their vibrations and fit them
to be of use at the time of the Coming. “ The work may
proceed through one medium or another (disciple or
movement), but always the life-force persists, shattering
the form where it is inadequate and utilising it when it
suffices for immediate need/’ At will these monstrous
masters would use their power to shape and hew, slay
and make alive!
With regard to her statement that “ at the head of
all great organisations will be found either a master or
initiate,” did not the Jewish writer, Dr. Angelo Rappo­
port, say in his book, The Pioneers of the Russian Revo­
lution :
“ There was not a political organisation in the vast Empire
which was not influenced by the Jews or directed by them; the
Social-Democrats, the Revolutionary Socialist Parties, the Polish
Socialist Party, all counted Jews among their directors; Plehve
was perhaps right when he said that the combat for political
emancipation in Russia and the Jewish question were practically
identical.”
As to the expected consummation towards the close
of the present century, in Cheiro’s World Predictions, we
find some significant statements, whether inspired or not
it is not possible to say:
“ From 1980 . . . will, in my opinion, see the restoration of
the Twelve Tribes of Israel as the dominant power in the world.
. . . Another law giver, like Moses, will arise . . . and so in
the end through this ‘ despised race * universal peace will be
established.”
In all illuminised sects the means of communication
with their unknown directors is to begin with invariably
18
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
274
pseudo-yoga in one form or another and later by
formulae. In another of her books, Letters on Occult
Meditation, she throws some interesting light on the
methods and nature of these Masters’ world schemes.
This book is dedicated “ To the Tibetan Teacher who
wrote these letters and authorized their publication,”
1922. Much is camouflage, meant to deceive; and to
cover themselves and the possibility, always great, of
harmful results from their diabolical experimentations
with men, women, and nations, they talk much of the
dangers to be encountered from “ Dark Brothers,” evil
entities, and elementals! It is more likely that they are
“ Dark Brothers ” themselves!
By means of this pseudo-yoga, the pupil’s personality
is in turn withdrawn from the physical, etheric, astral,
and mental bodies, until “ the man recognises himself as
a part of the Master’s consciousness. . . . The Master
is only interested in a man from the point of view of his
usefulness in the group soul and his capacity to help.”
The forces used and set in motion are “ those magnetic
currents of the universe, that vital fluid, these electric
rays ... the latent heat stored in all forms.” We are told
there are two special methods of setting these forces in
motion, so as to bring about unity with the Masters.
Mantrams—rhythmic sounds, words, and phrases, a com­
pelling force.
“ A mantram, when rightly sounded forth, creates a vacuum
in matter, resembling a funnel. The funnel is formed betwixt the
one who sounds it forth and the one who is reached by the sound.
There is then formed a direct channel of communication . . . [and
when] a similarity of vibration is somewhat achieved . . . the pupil
[becomes] custodian of a mantram whereby he may call his
Master. . . . It is purely scientific and based on vibration and the
knowledge of dynamics.”
It is destructive, removing obstacles; and construc­
tive, building up the Masters’ kingdom of power.
Rhythmic Movements, which, according to the
rhythm, brings “ those who use it into line with certain of
Nature’s forces . . . permitting of the rhythmic flow of
AMERICAN GROUPS 275
force in certain specified directions for certain specified
ends.” It stimulates the sex-organs and brings about
illumination. Its effect is tremendous, and can be world­
wide in its radius. Further, we are told this may be
applied on special occasions as follows:
Politically.—It is said the time is coming when those
who are manipulating nations, sitting in the assemblies of
the people, administering law and justice, “ will begin all
their work with great rhythmic ceremonies [ritual danc­
ing!],” putting themselves in touch with Manu, so as to
carry out his plans and intentions. The funnel made,
they will proceed to business, having placed two men in
their midst as the focal point for receiving the Master’s
instructions. What about the League of Nations?
Religious.—The priest will be the focal point, and
after due ceremony and rhythm the united congregation
will be the transmitter of forces and information from
Maitreya even as in the Liberal Catholic Church!
Educational.—All universities and schools will start
the sessions with this rhythmic ceremony, the teacher
being the focal point, thus stimulating the students
mentally and intuitionally, inspired through the funnel
by Mahachohan.
Here apparently we have an explanation of the
Steinerite Eurhythmy and the “ Goetheanum Speech
Chorus,” from Dornach; by rhythmic movement and
sound the kundalini is stimulated, the centres vivified,
and the vacuum created through which the required
forces and influences are directed by their Master, affect­
ing not only the performers, but the whole audience,
merging and orienting them for occult purposes. Mag­
netising the hall and preparing the people for illumina­
tion!
“ In all these three branches of service you will notice that
the faculty of working with groups is one of paramount import­
ance. . . . It may be either a band of Church workers among
the orthodox; it may be in social work, such as the labour move­
ments, or in the political arena; or it may be in the more definitely
pioneer movements of the world, such as the Theosophical Society,
etc. . . . I would add to this one branch of endeavour that may
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
276
surprise you. I mean, the movement of the Soviet in Russia and
all the aggressive radical bodies that sincerely serve under their
leaders for the betterment [.m
r] of the masses.”
These, then, are some of the tools and their rhythmic
methods of black magic, inspired by these mysterious
directors, with their camouflaged teachings, and camou­
flaged names, seeking for World Domination, not
through the betterment, but the enslavement and spiritual
death of mankind.
As de Luchet said with truth:
“ If several men mix together half qualities, they temper and
strengthen each other . . . the weak yield to the stronger, the most
skilful draw from each what he can supply. Some watch while
others act, and this formidable ensemble arrives at its goal, what­
ever it may be. . . . It was according to this principle that the
sect of the Illuminati was formed.”
The Illuminati are still with us, ruled from behind by
the same mysterious and invisible power!
Maurice Joly, in his revolutionary pamphlet, Dia­
logues aux Enfers, 1864, makes Machiavelli say: “ Before
thinking of actually directing the public opinion of all
peoples one must stun it. . . dazzle it by all sorts of move­
ments; mislead it insensibly in its ways.” From Mrs.
A. A. Bailey’s books we have shown the basis of the secret
World Government, its work and method of rhythmic
control. We will now consider, from the same source,
the establishment of a world-wide chain of occult schools,
whereby it proposes to impose its will upon all peoples.
Of these movements her Tibetan teacher says:
“ Experiments are being made now, unknown oft to the
subjects themselves . . . people in many civilised countries are
under supervision and a method of stimulation and intensification
is being applied which will bring to the knowledge of the Great
Ones Themselves a mass of information that may serve as guide
to their future efforts for the race. Especially are people in
America, Australia, India, Russia, Scotland, and Greece being
dealt with. A few in Belgium, Sweden, and Austria are likewise
under observation. . . . Schools have been already started . . .
when they are firmly grounded, when they are working smoothly
AMERICAN GROUPS 277
and with public recognition, and when the world of men is being
somewhat coloured by them and their subjective (astral) em­
phasis, when they are producing scholars, workers, politicians,
scientists, and educational leaders who make their impress on their
environment, then mayhap will come . . . the true occult school.
. . . This subjective reality being universally admitted, will
therefore permit of the founding of a chain of inner schools . . .
that will be publicly recognised (there will always be a secret
section). . . . H.P.B. [Mme Blavatsky] laid the foundation stone
of the first school . . . the keystone. . . . If all that is possible is
done, when the Great Lord comes with His Masters the work
will receive a still further impetus . . . and become a power in
the world."
And the whole idea of this tentative plan is to control the
bodies of man through the so-called “ God within,” link­
ing him by means of the Masters to this central control in
Shamballa. “ The Himalayan Brotherhood [of Light]
is the main channel of effort, power, and light. . . and is
the only school, without exception, that should control
the work and output of true occult students in the West.
It brooks -no rival.” The occult schools will be situated
where some old Mystery magnetism lingers.
The National subdivisions will be: Egypt: in Greece
and Syria the preparatory schools, and in Egypt, much
later, the advanced school profoundly occult. United
States: the preparatory school in the South Middle-West
and an extensive advanced occult college in California.
Latin countries: South France the preparatory school and
in Italy an advanced school. Great Britain: the prepara­
tory in one of the magnetised spots in Scotland or
Wales, and later, after Ireland has adjusted her internal
problems, the advanced school will be in one of her mag­
netised spots, and will be under Maitreya. In Sweden:
a preparatory school for Northern and German races.
Russia may later be the headquarters of a more advanced
school. New Zealand: preparatory school, and later an
advanced school in Australia. Japan: a preparatory
school and a most esoteric branch in West China under
Manu. None at present in South Africa nor in South
America. Preparatory schools are in process of being
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
278
founded, the more advanced will precede the Coming of
the Great Lord (1980). A beginning will be made with
members of the different occult schools, such as the
esoteric section of the Theosophical Society, etc.;the work
in Britain, America, and Australia is already started.
“ This much of the plan has been permitted publication
as an incentive to all of you to study and to work with
more strenuous application.” For what? slavery under
these masters!
Preparatory schools should be close to a big centre
or city, preferably near sea or expanse of water—water
is a conductor of force. Contact with many and varied
people is required as also outside mental training. The
advanced schools should be far from men in isolated
strongholds in mountainous regions; there they must
contact the Masters and the centre at Shamballa. The
preparatory staff consists of the Head, an accepted dis­
ciple, the focal point through which the Master’s forces
.flow. Six instructors, one at least clairvoyant, will be
complementary to each other, a miniature replica of the
Hierarchy of Light. To these will be added three women,
intuitive and good teachers. Under these will be others,
dealing with the emotional, physical, and mental equip­
ment of the pupils. The staff of the advanced school will
consist of an Initiate Head who, under the Master, will
be sole judge and autocrat. Under him two other
teachers, accepted disciples. Their work will be super­
visory, as all occultists are “ esoterically self-taught ”—
that is, directed by a Master. Much emphasis is laid on
so-called purification, physical, emotional, and mental, for
unless the body is purified and the brain stilled, the shat­
tering forces transmitted by the Masters, in their experi­
mentations, would, they well know, cause grave physical
and mental disease, even such as ever follows in the train
of these occult schools. This purification is attained
by dieting, and the use by the Masters of coloured lights
and sound, shattering, stilling, stimulating, and attract­
ing, until initiation or hypnotic control by the Central
Power is accomplished for “ the great Law of attraction
draws you to Him, and nought can withstand the Law ”
AMERICAN GROUPS 279
—the compelling force! The control is so complete that
the tool “ cares not if he loses friends, relations, children,
popularity, etc.; he cares not if he seems to work in the
dark, and is conscious of little result from his labours/*
His “ personal self ” is sacrificed!
When these so-called mysteries are restored, their
custodians will be “ the Church and the Masons ” ! That
was written first in 1922.
In 1934 Mrs. Bailey wrote a booklet, The Next Three
Years, purporting to be the World Plan, for the uplift of
Humanity by the realisation of man’s divinity through
the guidance of some so-called “ Elder Brothers or
Supermen.” According to Mrs. Bailey: “ Out of the
medley of ideas, theories, speculations, religions,
churches, cults, sects, and organisations, two main lines
of thought are demonstrating.” These are, she says, the
“ reactionary dogmatists,” who bow to a prophet, a bible,
or a church, and are doomed eventually to die out. The
other, the “ subjective group of intellectual mystics,”
regarding themselves as members of the Universal
Church, destined to grow and strengthen until they form
the new subjective religion. Apparently the latter are
not free as they bow to the authority of this unknown
Hierarchy of Elder Brothers, who seek to order and
dominate the world by the “ unification of effort in all
departments of human enterprise, religious, scientific,
and economic.”
Thus to-day, she writes, we have
“ a breaking away from old-established tradition, a revolt from
authority, a tendency towards self-determination and an over­
throwing of the old standards, of old barriers, of thought, and of
the divisions hitherto existing between races and faiths. Hence
we find ourselves passing through an intermediate stage of chaos
and of questioning, of rebellion, and of consequent licence.”
Or as Lady Emily Lutyens, one of Mrs. Besant’s
followers,, wrote in the Herald of the Star, March 1927:
“ We are witnessing the birth of a new world consciousness,
a world civilisation. . . . Old traditions are being broken down,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
280
old customs destroyed, old landmarks swept away. . . . There
must be anarchy before there can be creation.”
Thus they pave the way for the New Age, new
civilisation, new science, and the new religion of so-called
Illuminism and intuition.
Mrs. Bailey explains:
“ The Plan as at present sensed and for which the World
Knowers (under the Elder Brothers) are working might be defined
as follows: It is the production of a subjective synthesis in
humanity and of a telepathic interplay which will eventually anni­
hilate time . . . it will make men omnipresent . . . and omniscient.”
It is Illuminism! The time, she says, in which these
Elder Brothers must complete their Plan is limited by the
Law of Cycles, “ when forces, influences, and energies
are temporarily at work, and of these the World Knowers
seek to make use.” It is what they call the Aquarian
Age! “ which will last astronomically 2,500 years, and
which can, if duly utilised, bring about the unification,
consciously and intelligently, of mankind and so produce
the manifestation of what may be called ‘scientific
brotherhood.’ ” Therefore their aim is to break up
family, national, and racial pride.
Since the fifteenth century, she continues, in order
to build a more synthetic unity, seven groups have been
formed—cultural, political, religious, scientific, and later
philosophical, psychological, and financial. These were
to bring about certain preparatory conditions as part of
the Hierarchical programme. The philosophers, includ­
ing ancient Asiatic philosophers, powerfully mould
thought, psychologists talk about man’s urges and charac­
teristics, and the purpose of his being. Financiers control
and order means whereby man exists, “ constituting a
dictatorship over all modes of intercourse, commerce, and
exchange............Their work is most definitely planned
and guided. They are bringing about effects upon earth
which are most far-reaching.” All these groups, she
says, are co-operating with the Hierarchy and build for
posterity. These world workers
AMERICAN GROUPS 2 8 l
“ are necessarily cultured and widely read . . . they do not regard
their country and their political affiliations as of paramount im­
portance. They are equipped to organise, slowly and steadily,
that public opinion which will eventually divorce man from reli­
gious sectarianism, national exclusiveness, and racial bias.”
1934 to 1936 are to be test years. In politics, the
development of. an international consciousness, economic
synthesis among nations.
“ Material stress and strain, the wrecking of old political parties,
the overthrowing of trade relations . . . demonstrating the necessity
of establishing a spirit of international dependence and inter­
relation, so that the nations would be politically forced to realise
that isolation, separateness, and the cultivation of national egoism
must go.”
Thus bringing about the Brotherhood of Nations—a
World Federation State! She further classes together
the following dictatorships: The Soviet dictatorship of
the proletariat, “ . . . behind all the mistakes and the
cruelty, behind the rank materialism there lie great ideals
[Jewish!] ” ; the dictatorship of racial superiority in Ger­
many ; the dictatorship of organised business in America;
the dictatorship of empire in Britain; Italy, Turkey, etc.,
and all such national movements, according to Mrs.
Bailey, are in reality under the impelling impulse of the
ideas thrown into men’s minds by the secret Hierarchy,
but because of ignorance, they are “ distorted, selfishly
applied, and separately utilised.”
Further, from 1945 the World Faith will take shape,
and she explains: "The three words, electricity, light,
and life, express divinity and their synthesis is God.”
This is merely the life-force, and is sheer pantheism and
Illuminism. Again she says, the scientists set them­
selves the goal of expanding man’s consciousness, the
unfolding of his latent senses, and so widening his
horizon that a synthesis of the tangible and the intangible
will take place in education, science, and psychology.
Finally, for the next three years we are asked to drop
antagonisms, antipathies, hatreds, and racial differences,
and to think in terms of one family, one life, one hu-
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
282
manity. The end and aim being unification and mental
control by the so-called “ Hierarchy of Supermen.” Who
are they? What of the dreams and activities of L’Alli-
ance-tsraelite-universelle\ Such a monstrous robot is
even now showing signs of materialising, but the dream is
too fantastic and too fanatical to succeed among Western
peoples.
Theosophists are not alone in being dominated by
these mysterious “ Elder Brothers ” of the Great White
Lodge. A message was received in the New Zealand
Temple vault, 10 July, 1919, by the late High Chief,
Dr. Felkin, purporting to come from “ Christian Rosen-
kreutz,” that mythical Head of the Rosicrucians, in reply
to grave doubts expressed about these mysterious
Brethren, by one of the Ruling Chiefs of the London
R.R. et A.C. The message ran:
“ The Brethren are indeed the Elder Brethren and the mes­
sengers of the Lord [of Light], but they are neither infallible nor
do they belong to the company of the gods. They are but men
highly advanced indeed, and waiting for the torch [of Illuminism]
to be kindled in their midst, yet are they not of those of whom
ye know as Masters, and it is not in their power either to kindle
the torch nor yet to say at what day or hour the flame of Pentecost
[Illuminism] shall descend.”
We have already sketched the secret world plan of
these “ Elder Brothers ” as given by Mrs. Bailey, one of
their most faithful dupes and disciples. Some time ago
we received a book published in Canada, 1930, said to
be “ Unsigned Letters from an Elder Brother,” written
from January, to December, 1929, to a group working
under him. In the foreword he says:
“ The whole Earth is upon the very verge of that which
threatens it. This present year, 1930, and those immediately
following, shall see the dissolution of almost all these things upon
which men and nations do rely. First the overthrow—then the
Silence—then the Restoration. Think ye on these things.”
In this book a certain light is thrown on these
Brothers, their plans and methods of drawing unwary
AMERICAN GROUPS 283
and confiding men and women into their sinister and
deadening net of Illuminism.
“ Every Elder Brother is a ranking member of one or other
of the Twelve Hierarchies [the Great White Lodge and the twelve
signs of the Zodiac]. . . . He has no life apart from them.”
He can “ neither admit nor refuse admittance to the status of
discipleship.”
He trains students to receive the new knowledge by
direct contact, forming instruments to orient humanity.
This knowledge, the Elder Brothers say, is confined
to the Illuminati and initiates, who are few in number.
The existing order is to be overturned and destroyed,
they are preparing the way, by changing the thought
currents of the world, for the restoration of the Mys­
teries and the knowledge which underlies them. “ The
Knight Templars are gathering again,” they say, and
“ through their efforts the ranks of Freemasonry and
other similar orders will know a great Renaissance.”
None may enter discipleship and at the same time main­
tain allegiance to any occult order or teacher, but exist­
ing membership in Freemasonry, co-Masonic move­
ments, Oddfellows, or similar fraternal organisations is
not debarred. “ Our prohibition applies only in those
cases where religious or spiritual teaching is avowedly
the chief end or work.”
The one modern authority on the “ Masters ” whom
“ we entirely endorse is H. P. Blavatsky.” Those who
have been called
" are members of a select and powerful group. . . . We have
first to link, to draw together the scattered members of our Great
Order. . . . Later we will bind; through their efforts we will
unify many movements, giving them new knowledge, purpose, and
direction. . . . Plainly we wait for the breaking of the storm
which shall clear the ground for our own efforts. . . . From the
Centre there shall ultimately go forth Light, Knowledge, Leader­
ship, and finally Rulership. . . . Those who have the knowledge
and are in possession of the Plan will take up the reins. In that
day we will set up the Standard of the Lion and the Sun”
As Dr. Ranking said: “ During the Middle Ages
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
2 8 4
the main support of the Gnostic bodies and the main
repository of this'knowledge was the Society of the
Templars.” And we already know what their record
was.
The new knowledge is to be obtained by direct
contact with the Brotherhood, the means used being
Love—attraction and repulsion. Sex-force and passion,
or love, is not only a means of creating life in this world,
it creates forces on the psychic plane, it is “ a magnetic
and cosmic phenomenon,” attracting and binding the
negative instrument, the disciple, and the positive direct­
ing Brother using him. It means a fusion of dual con­
sciousness, mental and emotional.
“ Most often the Brothers work on the etheric and mental
levels of consciousness: they do not wear physical bodies, they
work indirectly through one or other of their attuned disciples,
giving him or her clearer ideas, intuitions, and a general fund of
knowledge far in advance of what he or she possesses in them­
selves.”
In this way many books are written. Not all
channels are clear, and lucid, personal ideas creep in.
“ If there is any obstinacy or personal pride or con­
tumaciousness, then that disciple is discarded, the in­
forming consciousness is withdrawn, and some other
channel is used.” Further, if the Brother is to work in
a physical body, he selects the parentage and environ­
ments, and in case of failure two bodies born about the
same time are prepared. “ He takes such a body in
order that the mind and will of the group as a whole
may be expressed through that personality.” If one
body fails it is cast adrift like a rudderless ship! By
such diabolical prostitution of Nature’s forces do these
fanatical Supermen seek to dominate and control
humanity!
Early in 1935 Mrs. Bailey was in this country
endeavouring to advertise the secret World Plan of these
Supermen as stated in The Next Three Years. She
distributed 25,000 copies, the object being to “ educate
public opinion,” and an attempt to form a defined active
AMERICAN GROUPS 2 8 5
group which “ can salvage a distressed world and bring
light and understanding to humanity.” Their aim is to
“ eventually divorce man from religious sectarianism,
national exclusiveness, and racial bias,” in preparation
for a World Federation State and World Illuminised
Religion! To forward this idea the pamphlet has been
translated into French, German, Italian, Spanish, and
Roumanian, but funds were lacking for printing this
attempt to inoculate Europe with this American virus of
pernicious Illuminism, as if Europe past and present
had not suffered enough from this terrible scourge which
so often ends in some mad, political, social, and pseudo­
religious obsession!
Silver Shirts
In “ The Silver Shirts ” of America we have an
example of the political plans of these “ Elder Brothers,”
being inaugurated and built up. According to their
magazine, Liberation, from which we have drawn our
information, the Silver Shirts of America claim to be a
Protestant, Christian organisation with a constructive
plan for “ turning the United States into a true
democracy, sensitive to the dictates of a sovereign people.”
A mass movement of units, “ A Christ Democracy,
under which the entire nation has been turned into a
Great Corporation with its voting citizens, the common
stockholders.”
To materialise this project a “ League of Liberation”
was formed by William Dudley Pelley at Ashville, N.C.,
the whole based on prophecy and inspiration received by
him clairaudiently via the “ psychic radio ” from so-
called “ Great Souls ” on the higher realms of life who
state that the Soviet rule is but “ a cog in their Plan,”
as also Hitlerism, and they speak of “ the temporary
upset of Jewry.” The leader is an unseen “ Prince of
Peace ” ! Under the auspices of this League he founded
the Galahad College, Ashville, where the following sub­
jects were taught to a maximum of 250 students a year:
Ethical History—studying from the Creation through
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
286
the civilisations and culture of Lemuria, Maya, Atlantis,
Egypt to the Jewish Dispersion and the Holy Roman
Empire as a background for modern times. Public
Stewardship—“ a gripping, battle of Light Forces
against Dark Cohorts.” Spiritual Eugenics—expound­
ing William Pelley’s psychic scripts and training students
how to receive similar communications. Social Meta­
psychics—training the student to recognise the light
and dark factors in the “ Great Obsessions ” of history,
recognising and dealing with similar factors in present-
day subversive movements. Christian Philosophy—new
economics, banks, and issue of money a governmental
function, public utilities owned by the public. Educa­
tional Therapy—applied suggestive therapy, doing away
with paupers and criminals. Cosmic Mathematics—
understanding the laws of vibrations, individual and
group. Here we have apparently a super-Americanised
College for training psychics!
William Pelley advocates development of the psychic
senses-—-super-seeing, clairvoyance; super-hearing, clair-
audience. He first realised these powers in himself May
1928, and says: “ I have left my mortal body in broad
daylight and travelled and been seen 3,000 miles
away. . . .” He further states that night after night he
has listened for and heard the “ voice of unseen but
living teachers ” whose teaching, as heard, he repeated
to a stenographer; their Life-Plan offers a complete
change of thinking about God and After-life, they believe
in passing through, it might be, 200 bodies, say, in
50,000 years! From the higher realms of life, in plain,
uncompromising words, were given the following
methods necessary to awaken these latent senses:
“ In the process called intimacy there is a moment when the
third eye of the spirit (pineal gland) is awakened or opened and
a tremendous rush of self-force is literally projected into the
other’s aura. That moment is precious in occult phenomena and
can be attained constantly by men and women attuning them­
selves to the enticements of love without the devitalising effects of
passion.”
That is, arousing and perverting the unused sex-forces
AMERICAN GROUPS 2 8 7
in order to bring about the required psychic conditions.
And as the teacher continues:
“ To persons of rightful attainments, sincerely desirous of
perfecting themselves in the Hidden Higher Truths, there comes
a time when the practice of certain rites awakens slumbering
senses, and such see beyond the known, and into the unknown.
. . . One of the capabilities . . . should be the going in and out
of the physical mechanism at will, in order to be the perfect instru­
ment.”
Although nominally protected, this might well end
in possession of the vacated body by some obsessing
teacher or mentor, so-called! As an inducement they
are told that with awakened senses “ they could command
men and women by the power of thought to do anything
at their bidding. They could heal even to raising the
dead. . . .” Vastly dangerous powers in the hands of
evil men, master or disciple!
As to their Protestant-Christianity, it might be
classed with the early Gnostics or even the Cabalistic
Jews as expressed to-day in many illuminised sects. As
William Pelley’s Mentor says:
“ We [as Christians] invent so to speak the Christos-idea,
we recognise in the Christ the Creative Principle set apart in a
peculiar order of Avatar Spirit . . . rendering a certain mission to
Itself and to the Man-Race, which likewise is ‘ part ’ of Itself. .. .
Christ Jesus the man, and Christos-Lord, the Holy Angelic avatar
Spirit come to earth to epitomise good [light] are as distinct and
separate ”
as adult and schoolchild. They go on to explain that
the ancient “ you,” in each man, is the God-spirit, the
God-stuff, the Christos Magic Man, the individualised
Logos, the individual word made flesh. This.is simply
the creative principle in each, positive and negative, the
Gnostic Good and Evil, light and matter.
Again we get the echo of the Manichaean “ phan­
tom ” Christ: “ The Jews as a people did not crucify
Christ.” He was crucified by certain “ deterrent and
malign £psyches ’ ” that incarnated in Jewish bodies “ to
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
288
strike back at the Logos of Light which they recognised
as having burst into flame in Jesus, the man. . . . It
was Jesus the Avatar psyche [illuminising force] that
they evilly schemed to get out of the way.”
William Pelley adopts the Great Pyramid teaching
of Dr. Davidson, declaring it contains a divine revela­
tion and is the key to all daily events, and asks:
“ How did it happen at the time of the American revolution,
when next to nothing was known of the mathematical interpreta­
tion of the great monument, that its symbolism was used in concrete
exactness on the Great Seal of the United States, indicating that
it was the part of America to reinstate the rule of Christ on
earth ? ”
Now Charles Sotheran, New York, Mason of many
degrees, initiate of the Rosy Cross and other secret
societies, wrote to Mme Blavatsky, 11 January, 1877:
“ In the last century the United States was freed from
the tyranny of the Mother country by the action of secret
societies more than is commonly imagined.” Was the
United States Seal not the inspiration of these secret
societies ?
It is curious to find the same Seal with the Statue
of Liberty used as symbols of the “ New Order of the
Ages,” Rosicrucian and Illuminism, whose head is Dr.
Swinburne Clvmer, apparently under the direction of the
mysterious International Secret Council of Nine, said to
be Rosicrucian, with its centre in France. Dr. Randolph,
original founder of the Group, 1864, takes the Rosicru-
cians, a vast Secret Brotherhood, back to the Sabeans
and calls them founders of the “ Semitic civilisation.”
William Pelley is hot-footed up against, above all, the
Jew of International Finance, but does not his mentor’s
psychic teaching of the Christos-Logos of Light point
to the Sabean primitive cult of the stars and the serpent,
out of which the “ Semitic civilisation ” arose ? He
knows nothing of his psychic mentors but what they have
chosen to impart to him; might not their aim be de-
Christianisation of the United States and establishment
of this “ Semitic civilisation,” a Gnostic so-called “ Christ
AMERICAN GROUPS 2 8 9
Democracy ” ruled and directed by “ voices unseen but
living teachers " ? As the Jewish Encyclopedia has
pointed out, Gnosticism “ was Jewish in character long
before it became Christian."
A pamphlet was issued giving a general idea of the
doctrine of this proposed “ Christ Democracy," from
which we give a few extracts:
“ Do you know that there are men and women in this nation
who are able to look into the immediate future with transcendant
vision and discern accurately a complete metamorphosis of our
present institutions along more wholesome lines ? This means in
plain language that they can see what improvements in our political
and economic order are going to arise from this present period of
distress and turmoil.
“ They see these improvements crystallising between 31
January, 1933, and 4 March, 1945, both dates written large in
Great Pyramid Prophecy. They see a real democracy established
in the United States, under the conditions of which the following
innovations are to be effected without altering our governmental
structure in the slightest:
“ A Christ Democracy under which the entire nation has been
turned into a Great Corporation with its voting citizens the
Common Stockholders.
“ A Christ Democracy in which these Common Stockholders
as one of the principles of citizenship, automatically and irrevoc­
ably receive a monthly dividend of 83*33 dollars from the Corpora­
tion to assure them a livelihood, and for ever keep them from
starvation attendant on unemployment.
“ A Christ Democracy in which large sums of the Great Cor­
poration’s dividend-paying Preferred Stock are issued to the
citizens in varying amounts from the lowest to the highest, to
furnish them with incentives towards initiative, industry, ambi­
tion, and thrift—such Stock paying dividends in addition to the
Starvation Dividend of the Common citizenship stock, which
cannot be bought, sold, or exchanged or otherwise manipulated
by predatory groups or individuals.
“ A Christ Democracy in which annual production is strictly
regulated by the consuming capacities of the whole citizenry and
not by their monetary buying power.
“ A Christ Democracy in which money in form of currency
is discarded as archaic, and all citizens do business by a form of
Cheque through a Federal Bank, which cheque is only used once
19
2 9 0 THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
exactly like express money orders of the present.
“ A Christ Democracy in which all rights to private and per­
sonal property are militantly conserved and protected by the
Government.
“ A Christ Democracy in which there are no more taxes on
the citizen of any description, taxation being as archaic as currency.
“ A Christ Democracy in which there are no rents for the
occupancy of homestead property, rents being as archaic and pre­
datory as currency taxes, and interest, but replaced by a system
under which every occupant paying to live in a structure is engaged
in buying that property, either in whole or part.
“ A Christ Democracy in which foreclosures on property for
any nature whatsoever are illegal.
“ A Christ Democracy in which all citizens enter a Federal
Civil Service that is rg:onstructed upon an efficiency basis and
graduated as to compensation according to a worker’s industry
or talents.
“ A Christ Democracy in which all legislation, no matter what
its character, cannot become law until it has been passed upon a
private vote of 51 per cent, of the citizenry to whom it applies.
“ A Christ Democracy in which dishonest or incompetent
officials can be instantly recalled by a 51 per cent, vote of the
citizenry in any district wherein they function.
“ A Christ Democracy in which all voting, either for or
against office holders, is done through the postal service instead of
the cumbersome and archaic polling place.
“ A Christ Democracy in which all votes so cast, for or against
a man or a measure, are preserved as public property and fully
published, thus forestalling dishonest tally of returns.
“ This neither Socialism nor Communism, but an entirely
different principle in human government which endured for
300,000 years in Atlantis, over untold generations in Peru before
the coming of Spaniards, and for 2,500 years in China before the
overthrow of the Manchus—details concerning which are rigor­
ously suppressed and censured by modern educational institutions
supported by endowments from the present predatory element in
the modern barbaric State.”
Such is the Government Plan proposed by William
Pelley’s “ Elder Brother,” under a mysterious “ Prince
of Peace.”
The following is a further example of the methods
of these invisible wire pullers who would govern the
AMERICAN GROUPS 291
world through trained and psychically developed men
and women. In this the Psychical Research of America
appears to be involved.
A friend in America sent us a little book, Let us in,
which purports to be communications received in 1931
from Professor William James, who died in 1910. It
is said, however, by one who for years lived near him,
that this book does not represent James either living or
dead! Judging from the contents, it can be concluded
that behind that name is in reality one of these mysterious
master minds. In this case a group of two men and a
woman (the receiver) were used as mediums, one being
Bligh Bond, then editor of Psychic Research for the
American Society of Psychical Research, also well known
to Spiritists and Illumines in this country through his
Glastonbury books, The Gate of Remembrance and The
Hill of Vision. In a note to this book he writes: “ Their
unseen control (William James and his group) of the
policies of Psychic Research has again and again been
impressed upon me in the course of my daily work here.”
A few extracts from Let us in will give an idea of this
secret communicator and his aims in using this group,
giving teaching which, when published, would orient
the psychically inclined public, drawing others into his
net.
Their God is the God of Masonry, the Yahveh of
the Jews: “ The inner secret of evolution is that God, the
life principle, is evolving from within his creation every
part thereof. . . .” Of the Manichaean dual forces, light
and darkness, good and evil, it is said:
“ It is of the utmost importance that men on earth should
fully realise the existence of these two camps and avail themselves
of the help of the Light-Bearers [Luciferian] whose weapons are
love and life. . . . The forces of ignorance have also rein­
carnated, and it is that war between darkness and light that is
now upon us. . . . The substance which we call love is more
enduring than steel . . . there are laws connected with its use.”
It is the magnetic fluid of the Rosicrucians! “ It is the
primary stuff of the universe. It is God himself, the
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
292
Ultimate (life-force). . . . It is manipulated by
thought and will.”
For mental healing: “ By your faith in the existence
of this great primary substance you are capable and at
liberty to employ it. Your spoken word or clearly for­
mulated thought is the wire, as it were, over which you
conduct the power to the person in need. . . . Then call
us in!” This magnetic healing, therefore, means linking
the patient to these Master-minds! And this is to be
used to remove so-called ■
“ invading entities,” but these
communicators must themselves be included under that
term, for they say: “ In reality it is not a case of let us
in; we are already in, and we want you to know it;
already in for good or ill!”
Again for political purposes:
“ Sit right where you are and turn the power of your thought
as directly on that far-away and perhaps powerful leader, calling
upon the help of your own special psychic forces (guide) to aid
you in bringing the God-power upon that person or group of
persons! . . .”
to co-operate with or controvert their schemes as suits
these masters! Again opening up a focal point of attack
for these hidden manipulators! In a similar way the
members of the R.R. et A.C. were taught to concentrate
on Russia in 1917-18!
Of Russia it is said:
“ The Russian problem is of the utmost importance. The
whole universe is constructed on the principle of focal points. . . .
Russia is the place where, by common consent of forces outside
your ordinary ken [!], an experiment is being launched which is
intended to involve the whole human race. This has been foreseen
for centuries. The events which led up to it, the seed from which
it sprang, were sown ages ago! ”—Illuminising Judaism!
What was said by the Mason de Luchet of Illumin-
ism in 1789 is just as true to-day: “ There are a certain
number of people who have arrived at the highest degree
of imposture. They have conceived the project of
AMERICAN GROUPS 293
reigning over . . . opinions and of conquering the
human mind.”
The Morning Post New York correspondent on
13 May, 1935, reported:
“ An editorial defence of a report by Dr. Harold Cummins,
published in London, on ectoplasmic finger-prints, has caused the
American Society of Psychical Research to dismiss Mr. Frederick
B. Bond, editor of its journal. . . .
“ Following his dismissal, Mr. Bond made the charge that
the policy of the trustees was fixed by a group ‘ more or less
pledged to support a particular interest, namely, the mediumship
of .Mrs. Crandon [“ Margery ”] and the advocacy of its super­
normal character.’ This is the second time that American psy­
chical circles have split over ‘ Margery.’ ”
So much for the value of investigations carried out
by the Psychical Research Society; they so often
drift into nothing but Spiritualistic seances and playing
around with mediumistic phenomena.
CHAPTER X III
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND
CHINA
T h e A.M.O.R.C.—The Ancient Mystic Order of the
Rosy Cross or Antiquce Arcance Ordinis Rosce Ruhece
et Aurece Cruzis—whose Supreme Grand Lodge is now
in San Jose, California, was founded by Dr. H. Spencer
Lewis, formerly president for many years of the New
York Institute for Psychical Research. He went to
France, it is said, in 1909, and there the European Rosi-
crucian Supreme Council agreed to his plans and
authorised the French Jurisdiction to sponsor them. He
returned to America, and after much official activity
their Supreme Council was organised in New York City,
1 April, 1915, and in 1916 a national convention was
held at Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania; a constitution was
adopted, and the order founded, which is now said to be
worked under a Charter received from the International
Council in Europe.
They claim that “ in the United States, etc., there are
College, University, and Lodge branches as well as study
groups in every important city and town ” ; also that its
foreign jurisdiction includes Grand Lodges “ in England,
Denmark, Holland, France, Germany, Austria, Russia,
China, Japan, East Indies, Australia, Switzerland, and
India. The College of the Order in the Orient is located
in India.” They have also a centre in London and ap­
parently headquarters in Bristol. Their magazine is
called, The Rosicrucian Digest.
They say they are “ not affiliated or connected in
any way with any other society, or with any cult or
movement,” but it is curious to note the similarity of
name with that of the Inner Order of the Stella Matutina
•
—Ordinis Rosce Ruhece et Aurece Cruets—which has also
5*94
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 295
a centre in Bristol! Further, besides having, according
to Rene Guenon, several theosophists as adherents, Mrs.
Ella Wheeler Wilcox, they say, was one of their strong
co-workers, and we know that her poems, for example
“ New Thought Pastels,” are also variously quoted in
support of the ideas both of the New Thought Move­
ment and Max Heindel’s Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception.
From information received from America, 1930, we learn
that A.M.O.R.C. had its temple fin Boylston Street,
Boston, Mass.; the Imperator was Harve Spencer
Lewis, Ph.D., F.R.C., who was also said to be Member
of the Supreme Council R.C. of the World, Legate of
the Order in France, Ordained Priest of the Ashrama
in India, Honorary Consular of the “ Corda Fratres ” of
Italy, Sri Sabhita, Great White Lodge, Tibet, Rex
Universitatis Illuminati, and Fellow of the Rose-Cross
College of the Rosicrucian Order. They finally claim to
be the only Rosicrucian organisation in America invited
to take part in all recent international conventions or
Council sessions held in foreign lands.
They look upon Egypt as one of the early arcane
schools of Light, hence their pamphlet, The Light of
Egypt, by Sri Ramatherio, 1931, in which they tell us
that their symbol is the cross with a single red rose in
the centre: the use, they say, of more roses is not the
ancient emblem. The Steinerites and Max Heindel use
seven! The R.R. et A.C. has one in the centre of the
cross, which is divided into twelve, seven and three petals
—the zodiac, planets, and elements, a symbol of the
universe—and in its heart is again the rose of ruby and
the cross of light, the whole signifying man or the
microcosm crucified on the cross of Illuminism, sacrificed
to the ambitions of the Power behind the Order. In the
registered emblem of the A.M.O.R.C., above the Red
Cross of sacrifice, is the Hebrew Talisman of power, the
Signet or Seal of Solomon, the interlaced Triangles—as
above so below.
In the U.S.A. they advertise their Order by holding
national conventions and by hundreds of newspaper and
magazine articles showing forth the advantages offered.
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
In this country, by full-paged magazine advertisements,
they promise personal power, success, health and pros­
perity to be attained by means of “ atonement with the
Cosmic creative forces and inspirational guidance.”
They claim to be non-sectarian, with no limitations of
race or sex, and they believe in universal brotherhood, as
do most other such cults. They further claim to be the
One Rosicrucian movement throughout the world operat­
ing as a unit.
One of their methods for attaining this unity is a
form of private correspondence-teaching, for study and
experiments in development of the psychic centres and
aura, and also methods for using the law of the Triangle,
involving breathing exercises, vibrations, thought forms,
rhythm, methods and experiments for receiving Cosmic
Illumination, all to be used and tested in daily affairs!
It is suggested that part of every Thursday evening
should be set aside for these experiments and concen­
trations, “ For this is the Rosicrucian Night throughout
the world, and it means greater power through the mul­
titudes who are thus attuned.” And in this union
universal and international, the A.M.O.R.C. offers its
members association with the master-minds of the laws
of nature—the Brethren of the Rosy Cross.
They talk of the urge of the Cosmic-Mind, the still
small voice which they call intuition, but is it not rather
the voice of the international master minds who, under
cover of “ saving civilisation,” are seeking to pervert
it and dominate the world through the united and
oriented dupes of all these never-ending illuminised
societies ?
2 9 6
C o n f e d e r a t io n o f I n i t i a t e s
Another Rosicrucian group is the Secret School,
Confederation of Initiates, using the Philosophical Pub­
lishing Company, Beverly Hall, Penn., U.S.A., and we
are told the latter superseded the Humanitarian Society,
founded in 1864, under the name of Rose-Cross Aid, by
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 2 9 7
Dr. Paschal Beverly Randolph—friend of Lincoln—who
also, it is said, started the American true Rose-Cross
Order in 1852. The Illuminati Rose-Cross College was
founded in the United States in 1774.
The present head of the Philosophical Publishing
Company is R. Swinburne Clymer, M.D., descendant of
George Clymer, who signed the Declaration of Inde­
pendence; he.practises in Philadelphia, lectures in various
medical colleges, is now about fifty-nine years old, and a
32nd degree Mason. In 1932 he was Supreme Grand
Master of the Order Sons of Isis and Osiris—38 degrees,
supports the College of the Holy Grail and the New
Church of Illumination. All three movements are in­
cluded in Man-Isis, the New Order of the Ages. Man-
Isis teaches the development of the ancient fire, the spark
of the Cosmic Christ, the dual creative forces in man,
bringing about deification; they welcome the coming of
the Grand Master John as forerunner to Apollonius of
Tyana, and to them the Essenes represented the Great
White Lodge (Jewish!). They profess to embrace the
esoteric side of all religions.
Dr. Clymer has written many books on Rosicrucians
and their teachings, and some, at least, have been fully
endorsed by the mysterious International Secret Council
of Nine, which apparently direct the Confederation of
Initiates. We have the following message purporting to
be issued by this Council with regard to the admission of
aspirants, dated 5 February, 1932:
“ This is the New Dispensation, and the work of the Spiritual
and Mystical Fraternities must be re-established throughout the
world, so that all peoples may be taught the Law and thereby
enabled to apply it towards universal improvement as the only
means of saving mankind. . . . We, the Council of Nine, have
selected your organisation, as one of the oldest in America, to help
do this work. This must be brought about in such a manner that
there can be no question of personal self-interest. May we sug­
gest that you select as your method that of the pre-Christian
Essenian Order in which Jesus was trained [ ? ] . . . accepting in
good faith all students who apply, on an absolutely freewill basis,
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
298
instructing them in the ancient manner and permitting these
students to compensate you on an exchange basis? . . . ”
(signed) Comte M. de St. Vincent, Premier Plenipoten­
tiary of the Council of Nine of the Confraternities of the world.
It is said that Dr. Randolph’s writings “ positively
fix the Secret School in France.” Further, he thus
“ authoritatively” explains Rosicrucians:
“ Many, though by no means all, the alchemists and hermetic
philosophers were acolytes of the vast Secret Brotherhood which
has thrived from the earliest ages . . . the members of this mystic
union were the Magi of old, who flourished in Chaldea ages before
one of its number left his native plains and on foreign soil founded
the Hebraic confederation. They were the original people of
Saba, the Sabeans, who for long ages preceded the Sages of
Chaldea. They were the men who founded the Semitic civilisa­
tion. . . . Of this Great Brotherhood sprung Brahma, Buddha,
Lotze, Zoroaster, the Gnostics, the Essenes, and there Jesus, who
was himself an Essene, preached the sacred doctrine of the Foun­
tain of Light. . . . They were the men who first discovered the
significance of fire. . . . Whatever of transcendent light now
illumines the world, comes from the torches which they lighted
at the Fountain whence all light streameth upon that mystic
mountain [of initiation]. . . . There is nothing original in
Thaumaturgy, Theology, Philosophy, Psychology, and Ontology,
but they gave it to the world. . . .”
Rosicrucians, therefore, are Illumines of that
Magical Cabala of the Jews, born by the Waters of
Babylon!
As Dr. Clymer quotes in his Philosophy of Fire:
" There is in Nature one most potent force, by means of
which a single person, who would possess himself of it, and know
how to direct it, could revolutionise and change the whole face
of the world. This force was known to the ancients and the
secret is possessed by the Secret Schools of the present day. It is
a universal agent, whose supreme law is equilibrium; and whereby,
if science can but learn how to control it, it will be possible to send
a thought in an. instant around the world; to heal or slay at a
distance; to give our words universal success, and to make them
reverberate everywhere.”
It is always the same explanation;
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 2 9 9
“ There is a Life Principle, a universal agent, wherein are
two natures and a double current of love and wrath. This ambient
fluid pervades everywhere . . . the Serpent devouring its own tail.
. . . With this electro-magnetic ether, this vital and luminous
caloric, developable in everyone, the ancients and alchemists were
familiar. . . . Quiescent, it is appreciable by no human sense;
disturbed, or in movement, none can explain its mode of action
except the Initiate, and to term it a ‘ fluid ’ and to speak of its
‘ currents’ is but to veil a profound mystery under a cloud of
words.”
Like the Jews of Alexandria, Dr. Clymer teaches
that the Sacred books of all religions, including those of
the Jews and the Christians, are no more than parables
and allegories of the Secret Doctrines of the inner
Mystery, the “creation or evolution of worlds and of
man. In the Secret Doctrine there was not one Christ
for the whole world, but a Potential Christ in every
man.” That is an illuminised man, the Pentagram!
Speaking of the Greco-Judaic literary falsifications
of the Jewish School of Alexandria, Silvestre de Sacy
notes in Saint-Croix’s book on the Mysteries of Pagan­
ism, 1817:
“ If some writers of to-day, notwithstanding their profound
learning, appear to be dupes of these impostures, it must not be
forgotten that often the indulgence in paganism increases propor­
tionately as the respect for revealed religion diminishes, and that
those who find in the mythology and beliefs of the Greeks, the
fundamental dogmas of an enlightened and spiritual religion, or
a system of subtle and transcendent philosophy, are oftenest, in
fact, those who see in the Old and New Testaments only a
mythology made for the childhood of society and adaptable only
to simple and rude men.”
J u l i a S e t o n
Another of these de-Christianising groups of Illum­
inati is “ The Modern Church,” and its School of
Illuminism, claimed to be founded in 1905 by Dr. Julia
Seton for the purpose of preparing the way for the
“ New Civilisation.” She calls herself an international
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
300
lecturer for U.S.A., Europe, and Australia. She tells
us that the
“ *New Church ’ . . . is redeemed out of all nations, all
races, all peoples, all creeds, into the One Life that is in all
[universal life-force] . . . shown forth in non-resistance, love,
service, and worship. . . . The Illuminati School is the modern
school of higher psychologyand mysticism, where ancient and
occult wisdom is revealed. It teaches new methods of social,
ethical, industrial, religious, international, and national liberty.
The teaching is standardising the world and passing all thought
into one great universal impulse.”
Again she writes: “ The New Age mind asks, ‘What
is God? ’ ” and the answer is:
“ God is Cosmic Spirit, manifesting in all and through all
as a ceaseless unerring intelligence; all nature is the body of God,
and manifests as a perfect plan of creation. . . . All things
emerge new-born from Cosmic Spirit, all things return reborn
to it. Cosmic Spirit is waiting to be acted upon and man is the
actor. . . . It cannot choose but bring forth after the kind of
intelligence which commands it.. . . Man is the highest expression
of Cosmic Spirit in form on earth. He is not part of God, nor
a creation by God; he is universal Intelligence or Cosmic Spirit
itself. . . . ”
That this is no new religion any student of ancient
pantheistic creeds will recognise. As M. Flavien Brenier,
in Les Juifs et la Talmud, says:
“ Now the dominating philosophic doctrine among learned
Chaldeans . . . was absolute pantheism . . . identified as a kind
of breath of Nature, uncreated and eternal; God emanated from
the world, not the world from God . . . ideas which they [Her­
metic Freemasonry] have inherited from the alchemists of the
Middle Ages, who held them from the Cabalistic Jews.”
Here we have the mindless-mind, the blind God of
Dr. Julia Seton’s “ Modern Church,” which is waiting to
be acted upon by man! Thus do we see in the making
the negative illuminised “ New Civilisation ” standard­
ised into one great universal impulse set in motion by the
Master minds of the “ Great White Lodge,” in ttye
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 3OI
name of Higher Psychology and Mysticism. It is Luci-
ferian perversion, an obsession.
Roerich
Another destroyer of Western civilisation is
Nicholas Roerich and his “ New Era ” creed.
In 1925 Serge Whitman wrote, in the Foreword:
“ We who search the paths of international understand­
ing and the structure of universal peace, must look upon
Roerich as the apostle and forerunner of the new world
of all nations.”
Nicholas Roerich, a Russian living for a time in
America, is a world-known painter, philosopher, and
scientist. He was secretary of the Society for the En­
couragement of Arts in Russia and director of its school,
organising and co-ordinating the native and new impulse
in painting, music, drama, and the dance, and his work
was appreciated by such men as Andriev, Gorky, Mes-
trovic, Zuloaga, Tagore, and others who represented
the newness. Later he was invited to exhibit his paint­
ings in America, and remaining there, he continued his
work, uniting arts so as to unite men. For that purpose
he established the Corona Mundi,'which in 1922 finally
took the form of the International Art Centre of the
Roerich Museum, New York.
In 1929 he presented the Roerich Museum, which
contained 734 of his own paintings, to the American
nation. The other affiliations to the Roerich Museum
are: the Master Institute, 1921, for teaching his new
ideals in all arts; the Roerich Museum Press, 1925, to
spread the New Era ideals by publication of books; also
Urusvati, Himalayan Research Institute, 1928, for scien­
tific research in medicine, botany, biology, geology, astro­
physics, archaeology, etc. Branches and groups of the
Roerich Society have been organised in Europe, Asia,
Africa, South and Central America, and the United
States.
From 1924 to 1928 he headed an expedition which
passed through India, Tibet, Turkestan, and Siberia. His
THE TRAIL O
F THE SERPENT
302
diary of these wanderings is^given in his book Altai
Himalaya, which is illustrated by many reproductions of
his mystical paintings. In his other book, Heart of
Asia, Part II, Shambhala—he gives an account of what
he believes this New Era will mean. It is the key to
his work and philosophy, and his resultant world in­
fluence. A few extracts will make this clear:
“ In the limitless desert of the Mongolian Gobi, the word
Shambhala, or the mysterious Kalapa of the Hindus, sounds like
the most realistic symbol of the great Future. . . . In the Temple
of Ghum monastery, not far from the Nepalese frontier, instead
of the usual central figure of Buddha you see a huge image of
the Buddha Maitreya, the coming Saviour and Ruler of Hu­
manity [probable date 1936]. . . . The teaching of Shambhala
is a true teaching of Life. As in Hindu Yogas, this teaching
indicates the use of the finest energies, which fill the macrocosm
[universe], and which are as powerfully manifested in our micro­
cosm [man] . . . [it expresses] not a mere Messianic creed, but
a New Era of mighty approaching energies and possibilities . . .
the epoch of Shambhala will be attended by a great evolutionary
momentum. . . . The teaching of Life by the Mahatmas of the
Himalayas speaks definitely of it. . . . That which but recently
was commonly known as the teaching of will power and con­
centration has now been evolved by Agni Yoga into a system
of mastering the energies which surround us. Through an ex­
pansion of consciousness and a training of spirit and body, with­
out isolating ourselves from the conditions of the present day,
this synthetic Yoga builds a happy future for humanity. . . .
“ Agni Yoga teaches: *Understand the great meaning of the
psychic energy—human thought and consciousness—as the great
creative factors. . . . People have forgotten that any energy
once set into motion creates a momentum. It is almost impossible
to stop this momentum; therefore every manifestation of psychic
energy continues its influence by momentum sometimes for a
long time. One may already have changed his thought, but the
effect of the previous transmission will nevertheless permeate
space. In this lies the power of psychic energy . . . [in order
to be receptive to this psychic energy man’s nerve centres must
be developed]. The centre of the third eye [pineal gland] acts
in co-ordinance with the chalice [heart or feeling knowledge] and
with kundalini [sex force]. This triad characterises in the best
way the basis of activity of the approaching epoch. [That is
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 303
perverting sex-force to bring about illumination and induce nega­
tive receptivity!] . . .
" During the development of the centres humanity will feel
incomprehensible symptoms, which science, in ignorance, will
attribute to the most unrelated ailments. Therefore the time has
come to write the book of observations regarding the fires of
Life. . . . Physicians do not neglect! ”
One might well wonder how many of present-day
mental, moral, and bodily ills are due to the psychic
practices of these innumerable esoteric and illuminised
cults which actually obsess a lar£e portion of modern
humanity! It is the making of a monstrous robot set
in motion by fiendish but unknown fanatics and madmen!
Although Roerich has written: “ The evolution of
the New Era rests on the corner-stone of Knowledge and
Beauty,” yet he says it is the Knowledge and Splendour
of Shambhala! And the spirit of all Roerich’s work
has been described by Claude Bragdon in his introduction
to Altai Himalaya as the search for “ the hidden truth,
the unrevealed beauty, the Lost Word, in fact.” That
is I.N.R.I.—Igne Natura Renovatur Integra—All nature
is renovated by fire. The fire of universal generation!
The Serpent Power!
Thus the new world is to be unified by means of
these cosmic and psychic energies, which would un­
doubtedly culminate in world domination and control by
some very powerful and positive group superior over all
others in development of will power and intense con­
centration, having profound knowledge of the laws of
these energies, as well as of human nature and its weak­
nesses, using these energies to prepare and rule negatively
developed men and women—a happy future indeed for
enslaved humanity!
Tibetan Initiation
Writing in Isis Unveiled, Mme Blavatsky said:
“ The astral and sidereal light as explained by the alchemists
and Eliphas Levi in his Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie, and
under the name of *Akasa ’ or life-principle, this all-pervading
force was known to the gymnosophists, Hindu magicians, and
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
304
adepts of all countries thousands of years ago; it is still known
to them and used by the Tibetan Lamas, fakirs, thaumaturgists
of all nationalities, and even by many of the Hindu ‘ jugglers.’ ”
Further, all Theosophists who derive their doctrines,
in part or in whole, from Mme Blavatsky’s writings
believe their Masters to be either dwellers in Tibet or
linked to some powerful hierarchy there.
In Tibet’s Great Yogi Milarepa, edited, with an in­
troduction, by W. Y. Evans Wentz, we are told that
“ throughout Tibet and extending into Nepal, Bhutan,
Sikkim, Kashmir, and parts of Mongolia there are three
chief schools of Buddhist philosophy.” In Tibet the ad­
herents of these schools are: (1) The Yellow Caps or Ge-
lug-pas, the established Church of Northern Buddhism,
wielding through its spiritual head, the Dalai Lama, both
spiritual and temporal power. (2) The Kargyutpas or
“ followers of the Apostolic Succession.” That is the
transmission of the “ Divine Grace ” from the Buddhas
through their Supreme Guru Dorje-Chang to the line
of Celestial Gurus and thence to the Apostolic Guru on
earth and from him to each subordinate Guru and by
them through the Mystic Initiation to each of the neo­
phytes. It is a veritable magnetic-chain. (3) The Red
Caps or Adi-Yoga school, the Unreformed Church. The
Yellow Caps acknowledge the superiority of the Red
Caps in all questions connected more or less with magic
and the occult sciences.
Then there are the Bons, known as Black Caps, sur­
viving monastic orders of primitive pre-Buddhistic reli­
gion. Evans Wentz also compares the Kargyutpas with
so-called Christian Gnostics, and says that, according to
some Gnostic schools, “ God the Father was mystically
the Primordial Man, the Anthropos or I.A.O. (the life
principle) comparable to the Adi-Buddha of the Kar­
gyutpas and other sects of Northern Buddhism.” In
both faiths Deliverance depends on one’s own efforts;
there is a similarity in the initiation ceremony, and both
use mantras; both personify the Female Principle in
nature as “ Wisdom,” both believe in rebirth. To the
Great Yogis there is one family, one nation—Humanity!
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 3O5
As for the Mystical Initiation, Mme A. David-Neel,
in her Initiations and Initiates in Tibet, gives us many
and enlightening details showing the close similarity of
the methods and beliefs of the Lamaist sects to those of
the many gnostic and cabalistic sects of to-day. In Tibet,
the idea of a Supreme personal God, an eternal omnipotent
Being, the Creator of the World, has never held sway;
they consider nothing but the law of cause and effect,
with its manifold combinations. Under the name of
esoteric or mystical methods, Lamaists really include a
positive psychic training and salvation [Liberation] is
an arduous and scientific attainment. The Tibetan Ini­
tiation or “ angkur ” is above all the transmission of a
power, a force, by a kind of psychic process, so as to
communicate to the initiate the capacity to perform some
particular act or to practise certain exercises which tend
to develop various physical or intellectual faculties.
There are three kinds of teachings, methods, and initia­
tions : exoteric, esoteric, and mystic.
Exoterically there are powerful beings or “ Yidams ”
who, they say, protect those who worship them. Eso-
terically these “ Yidama ” are depicted as occult forces,
and mystics regard them as manifestations of the energy
inherent in body and mind. Mystic Initiations are there­
fore psychic in character. The theory is that the energy
emanating from the Master or from some more occult
sources may be transmitted to the disciple who is capable
of “ drawing it off ” from the psychic waves into which
he is plunged during the celebration of the angkur rites.
The disciple is offered an opportunity “ of endowing him­
self with power.”
By meditation the Masters develop in their pupils
certain psychic faculties by means of telepathy or sym­
bolic gestures, a strong form of suggestion, awakening
ideas. Before a mystic angkur the initiating Lama for
a few days or several months, according to the degree
to be conferred, remains in a state of profound concen­
tration, or as Mme David-Neel expresses it: “ The Lama
stores himself with psychic energy just as an accumulator
stores itself with .electricity.”
20
306 the trail of the SERPENT
After the initiation the aspirant goes into retreat,
and mentally and physically prepares himself to receive
the force which will be transferred to him. He regulates
his religious practices, food, and sleep as directed by his
Master. “ He also endeavours to empty his mind of all
reasoning activity so that no mental or physical activity
may take place, and thus form an obstacle to the stream
of energy which is to be poured into him.” A certain
degree of skill in the exercise of Yoga, principally the
mastery of the art of breathing, is necessary for success.
The candidate of the “ Short Path,” when seeking ad­
mission as a disciple, is reminded of the risks he runs
of incurring dangerous illness, madness, and certain
occult happenings that may cause death. Considering
the forces being used, this can be understood. The disciple
must have faith in his initiating Master and in the effi­
cacy of the angkur he confers.
One can, therefore, realise the dangers to which the
adept is exposed in these high mystic and psychic initia­
tions, common to all gnostic and cabalistic sects, more
especially when one remembers that in all such modern
sects the initiating adept and teacher is himself merely
an intermediary, oriented and controlled, carrying out
the commands of some unknown and ambitious Hier­
archy of Supermen who, as related by Mrs. A. A. Bailey
of New York, would dominate the nations through such
tools, moulded to occupy their several appointed posts,
light bearers of darkness leading the peoples to commit
mental, religious, national, and racial suicide so as to
make way for some monstrous New Era, new civilisation,
new subjective religion.
Secret Societies in China
In Les Societes Secretes en Chine, 1933, Lieut.-
Colonel B. Favre shows the antiquity of these Chinese
secret societies and how their methods and organisations
are in many ways similar to those in Europe and else­
where, and above all, how their influence was manifested
during the revolts of the eighteenth and nineteenth cen-
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 307
turies. He states that discoveries made during little
more than twenty years in Turkestan, China, Mongolia,
Persia, and Afghanistan reveal a closer connection be­
tween ancient peoples than has hitherto been believed.
The secret of these societies, he says, veils their work,
and a complicated ritual, magical and religious practices,
and ceremonies of initiation create among members,
bound by an oath, the necessary atmosphere to awaken
great enthusiasm. “ To lead the people is to place the
passions at the service of an idea.” In China these poli­
tical secret societies rest chiefly on Taoism and Con­
fucianism, and the family and clan idea is utilised to
bind members together.
He tells us that the Han Dynasty was one of the
most brilliant in Chinese history; immense conquests
brought the Empire in contact with distant peoples, cul­
tural interchanges of the greatest importance were estab­
lished, and during this period, when passions of all sorts
were displayed in the extreme, secret societies flourished.
After the fall of the Han, Buddhism attained consider­
able development, and among the ten great Buddhist
schools or sects which arose in China, one of the most
ancient was the Lotus, known as Amidism, founded in
China in the fourth century. It was not primitive
Buddhism, and possibly received its gods from Persia or
Syria; later it was called Lotus Blanc, and was a religion
of love, pity, and naive devotion, which conquered China
and Japan, and is strong to-day.
Later again, under the name “ Association of the
Lotus Blanc,” it ceased to be a religious brotherhood.
In the fourteenth century, still Buddhist, the sect burnt
perfumes, practised divination, used pentacles, and was,
above all, Messianic; they announced the incarnation of
Maitreya, the future Buddha, so often looked for at
various dates. Here the author notes the probable con­
nection between the name Maitreya, the Persian Mithra,
and the Mi che ho, the Manichaean Messiah. The Lotus
Blanc having co-operated in the fall of the Yuan and
Ming dynasties, had to assist in the overthrow of the
Tsing. The “ Nuage Blanc,” sometimes confounded
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
with the Lotus Blanc, was, according to Father Wieger,
tainted with Manichaeism; its chief affected philanthropy,
vegetarianism, invoked spirits, and his adepts, like the
Manichaeans, did not marry and refused to procreate.
During the nineteenth century the affiliations of the Lotus
Blanc exercised considerable influence over historical
events in China, and to-day they still exist.
The Triad or Hong is an association, known under
various names in China, and in the Chinese colonies of
Sonde, Straits Settlements, and Indo-China; its origin
is unknown, but it first appeared for certain in 1787. It
is probable, the author says, that the Hong (Triad) was
formed about the beginning of the eighteenth century, as
it was spoken of from 1749 to 1832 in several official
edicts, in connection with seditious movements in which
it participated. The Chinese believe in occultism and
magic; it is for them a scientific discipline, a philosophical
and practical system which permits them to penetrate
beyond the sensible and dominate the forces which sur­
round them; it has its laws and logic. Their chief officer
or “ Venerable ” was known as “ Elder Brother.” There
are also many apparent links between the Triad and
Freemasonry: both practise fraternity and aim at the
moral perfection of mankind. They have the same con­
ception of the Universe which is shown in the Chinese
duality—Yin and Yang, and in Masonry by the Pillars
of Jakin and Boaz. Both see the “ Light ” and a certain
number of symbols and rites are common to both; the
sign of Fire in Hong1is also Masonic. One might ask,
are they not both of Sabeist origin? According to
Confucius, Chang-ti, the universal principle of existence,
is represented under the general emblem of the visible
firmament as well as under the particular symbols of
Sun, Moon, and Earth.
The political activities of the Triad became intense
during the years preceding the revolution of1911. These
secret societies acted for three centuries alternately in
the revolutionary domain and in various forms of
brigandage. Sun Yat-sen thus explains why the
Nationalists from the beginning made use of this collec-
3 0 8
SECRET SOCIETIES IN AMERICA, TIBET, AND CHINA 3 0 9
tion of men, vagabonds without family; the Nationalists
could no longer confide their ideas to the elite, they had
to put them into a receptacle of repulsive aspect, the
Hong-men, which no /one would dream of searching.
These ideas were transmitted orally, following the tradi­
tion of secret societies, and were kept secret. Sun Yat-
sen realised that he could no longer utilise them without
danger after the overthrow of the Tsing. The survival
of the Triad must therefore be looked for among the
bands, red or not, who, after the civil wars, swarmed in
most provinces devoting themselves to dark exploits.
Concerning these bandits and their societies the
author quotes an open letter from a Tientsin journal,
Ta pong pao, of 4 November, 1930, which was called
“ Brigands in the region of K’ouang p’ing.” It said
that after the fall of the Ming dynasty when the revolt
aimed at overthrowing the Tsing in order to restore the
Ming, secret societies gathered together these vagabonds
or bandits into the Society of the Ko-lao houei, the “ Old
Brothers.” Most masters of junks and sampans are
affiliated to bandits, and the affiliated members must be
closely united, observe justice, be subject to rigorous
discipline; those who default must be severely judged;
all are equal and must not give themselves up to debauch
and robbery. They pay homage to ancestors of
dynasties; entering their own houses they must revere
the Heaven, the Earth, Sun, Moon and Stars, the saints,
the Masters of the three doctrines and the five elements.
A secret language is used, and they recognise each other
by questions put and answered as required.
Therefore, Colonel Favre adds: “ These men within
these associations have a statute, a ritual; but mystic
habits have disappeared; the ritual is democratised, it
remains religious and moral. But there is something
paradoxical in it since those bands live on cruelty and
pillage.” The sarpe apparent paradox is found in modern
secret societies in Europe and America; superficially they
appear religious and moral bodies, but under all runs the
eternal cry of revolt: “ Everything, yes, everything must
be destroyed, since everything must be renewed.”
CHAPTER XIV
THE SYNARCHY OF AGARTTHA
Marcel; Lallemand writes in Notes on Occultism:
“ Under the influence of Theosophy, occultism is asso­
ciated with visions of libraries buried in the caves of
the Himalayas.” For many years much has been written
among certain of these secret societies about the mys­
terious hierarchy and subterranean libraries of Agarttha.
Having read Mission de VInde en Europe, Mission de
I’Europe en Asie, written in 1886 by Saint-Yves d’Al-
veydre, we are led to conclude that it is more or less
symbolic, that Agarttha is of no one country, of no one
nation, but universal; that the hierarchy is, apparently, a
group of cabalistic and gnostic magi and initiates, having
links with the Jewish School of Alexandria, seeking by
means of unification, through many Judaeo-Christian
sects, to dominate and secretly rule the Western World
and eventually unite the East with the West; that in all
probability the mysterious subterranean libraries merely
consist of what is known as the “ Akashic Records ”—
akasa meaning ether, which according to these initiates
has imprinted upon it all past, present, and future world
happenings. Therefore they claim to be able to tap the
ether and get back the nature and beginnings of pre­
historic man and ancient civilisations, as for example
their mystical accounts of the Lemurian and Atlantean
epochs.
In writing of these ancient epochs of Lemuria and
Atlantis Edouard Schure in From Sphinx to Christ ex­
plains: “ Dr. Rudolf Steiner, endowed with esoteric
knowledge and highly developed clairvoyance, has fur­
nished us with many novel and striking glimpses of the
physical and psychical constitution of the Atlanteans in
relation to anterior and posterior human evolution.”
310
THE SYNARCHY OF AGARTTHA 3 I I
There is, however, reason to suspect that Steiner’s clair­
voyance was more or less the thought-forms of his
powerful Masters using him as an instrument to restore
the mysteries and illuminise the Western World. More­
over, his teachings on the evolution of the world and man
are wholly based on these said visions of the primary,
Lemurian, and Atlantean epochs, and the result is like
some horrible nightmare, entirely anti-Christian, reeking
of ancient Sabeism intermingled with the perverted
Christianity of the Hellenised Jews of Alexandria.
Schure, Max Heindel, and Steiner himself in his
Outline of Occult Science, all expound this mythological
mystery. The early Lemurians are described as eyeless,
mindless, vapoury hermaphrodites, ruled by planetary
gods, guided by angels, and aided by Luciferian spirits.
Later the sexes were separated, bringing terrible sexual
disorder, and finally Lemuria was submerged. According
to Schure the priests of Ancient Egypt preserved the
tradition of a vast Continent which had formerly occu­
pied a great part of the Atlantic Ocean from Africa and
Europe to America, and of a powerful civilisation which
was engulfed in some prehistoric catastrophe. The
priests claimed to have received it from the Atlanteans
themselves through some far-back connection; in turn
they told Solon of the tradition, and Plato, borrowing
from him, wrote of it in his dialogue, the Timceus. The
whole tradition is a vast legend,, although there are
scientific proofs that such a Continent had probably
existed. Some of the Lemurians, it is said, survived and
settled in Atlantis, which, as Schure explains, was a
tropical Eden with a primitive humanity; then came a
long period of wars, followed by a Federation of Initiate-
Kings, and finally decadence and a reign of black magic,
and the Continent was gradually rent and destroyed by
subterranean fires.
These primitive people, according to Schure, were
powerful psychics: “ His sparkling serpent-like eye
seemed to see through the soil and the bark of the trees
and to penetrate the souls of animals. His ear could
hear the grass growing and the ants walking ” ; they
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
3 1 2
spent their nights is astral dreams and visions, believing
they contacted and conversed with the gods. Again
Steiner says that the Atlantean Kings had spirit guides in
human form, “ Messengers of the Gods ” (Elder
Brothers), who actually ruled men through the kings. As
he explains, these guides were under Luciferian influence,
but used it progressively to free themselves from error by
becoming initiates of the Solar-Christ Being—they be­
came Illumines! They imparted the mysteries to disciples
and in fact became Christ-oracles. Matter in the form of
Ahriman came along and intellect was born and the gods
receded from among men. In the later Atlantean evolu­
tion the mysteries, he said, had to be kept secret so
that the knowledge of how to control and direct Nature’s
forces should not be used for evil and sensual purposes,
but in time these powers became known, black magic
became rampant, and Atlantis was destroyed.
Then according to Steiner, Europe, Asia, Africa,
etc., were colonised by the descendants of Atlantis and
with them came the initiates of the oracle-mysteries.
Yarker in his Arcane Schools states: “ When the island
of Atlantis sank a pass was reft which drained the
Desert of Gobi... . Tibet has preserved many details of
the wars of this lost Atlantis, charging the cause of its
destruction to the cultivation . . . of black magic.” Fur­
ther he quotes the Popul-Vuk, or Book of the Azure Veil,
of the Mexicans which tells us that these Atlanteans were
a race that “ Knew all things by intuition,” and repeats
the charge of black magic. Yarker adds: “ This book
allegorises and personifies the forces of nature.” Thus
we might conclude that much of the legend of Atlantis is
also an allegory, personifying Nature’s secret and per­
ceptible forces, as found in all mythologies. And upon
this web woven out of the astral light Steiner has built
up much of his Occult Science and Christian Illuminism.
In support of our opinion of the nature of Agarttha
we quote from the above book by Saint-Yves d’Alveydre.
He explains that “ the name Agarttha signifies impos­
sible to be taken by violence and inaccessible to anarchy.”
In itself he says it is a Trinitarian unity and Synarchy of
THE SYNARCHY OF AGARTTHA 313
Judaeo-Chrlstians, as opposed to “ general government
by brute force, that is, military conquest, political
tyranny, sectarian intolerance, and colonial rapacity.”
Everywhere to-day it looks as if an attempt were being
made to rule the world by some such Synarchic hierarchy
of men, politically, religiously, and economically.
He continues:
“ Suffice it to know that in certain regions of the Himalayas,
among twenty-two temples representing the twenty-two Arcana of
Hermes (the cabalistic keys of the Tarot Cards) and the twenty-
two letters of certain sacred alphabets (among others Greek and
Hebrew), Agarttha forms the mystic Zero, the undiscoverable.
The Zero, that is to say, All or Nothing, all by harmonious unity,
nothing without it, all by Synarchy, nothing by Anarchy.”
The Zero is the Fool of these Hermetic Arcana, whose
symbol is air, and which is found on one of the paths
uniting the Sephiroth of the Supreme Creative Triad at
the summit of the Cabalistic Tree of Life. It repre­
sents idealism which has lost its foothold on the material
world; metaphorically speaking, it is in the air!
“ The sacred territory of Agarttha is independent,
synarchically organised, and composed of a population
rising to the figure of nearly 20 million souls.” That is,
Yogis, adepts, and initiates, who, all over the world,
practise Yoga, Eastern or Western, and are united on
the astral by the magnetic life-principle which penetrates
all peoples and all nature. “ Agarttha is a faithful image
of the eternal Word throughout all Creation.” Its
symbol is the Triangle of Fire, the manifestation of the
Creative Principle. “ The highest circle and the nearest
to the mystical Centre is composed of twelve members.
These last represent Supreme initiation, and correspond,
among other things, to the Zodiacal Zone. In celebrat­
ing their magical Mysteries they wear the symbols of
the signs of the Zodiac, as also certain hierarchic letters.”
They also represent the twelve tribes of Israel.
“ These libraries, which contain the true substance of all
ancient arts and sciences going back to 556 centuries, are in­
accessible to all profane eyes and to all attacks. . . . Alone in
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
3H
his Supreme Initiation, the Supreme Pontiff, with his principal
assessors, holds the complete knowledge of the sacred catalogue
of this planetary library,”
He alone possesses the key to open it and the knowledge
of the contents of this “ Cosmic Book.” Therefore there
is reason io put these libraries down as “ Akashic
Records,” said to be opened and read by means of
Hermetic and Cabalistic magical symbols and formulae.
Further, he says, the priests and learned men, by
entering into this Ancient and Universal Alliance, where-
ever there was to be found the grave of a vanished
civilisation, “ not only would the earth deliver up its
secrets,” but these men would have the golden key of
entrance, and would gain complete knowledge of them.
“ On the spot they would piously rebuild the antiquity
of Egypt, Ethiopia, Chaldea, Syria, Armenia, Persia,
Thrace, the Caucasus, and even the plateau of High
Tartary.” By Illuminism all would be known from the
highest heaven to the central fire of the earth. There
would be no evil, intellectual, moral, or physical, for which
union of Man with Divinity could not bring a certain
remedy. It is wholly a work of magic, as is Agarttha
itself.
“ Finally, to pass from the public law of to-day to the
Synarchic Alliance of to-morrow, it will be sufficient for us that
circumstances should allow a Sovereign Pontiff to rise up at the
head of the whole social Judaeo-Christian body, to set up its
Authority and synthetic spirit and, supported by the conscience
of all peoples who are attentive to the voice of truth, to call
Governments to the law of intelligence and love, which should
reunite and reorganise them.”
Then we appear to come to a League of Nations:
“ For the first time, European States will be able without
danger, under guarantee of this great intellectual and arbitral
Authority, supported by the public conscience of Europe, to
proceed to enthrone a general Government of Justice and not
of diplomatic ruse and military antagonism. For the first time
under the double guarantee of these two Supreme Councils, the
Teaching Authority and this Power of Justice, Emperors, Kings,
THE SYNARCHY OF AGARTTHA 3 1 5
or Presidents of Republics forming an integral part of the latter,
will be able to call Judaeo-Christian nations to form a great eco­
nomic assembly. Thus the Synarchy can accomplish itself ex ­
cathedra under the banner of the European Sovereign Pontiff,
and become accessible to all Judaeo-Christians without exclusion of
cults, universities or peoples. This supra-national reorganisation
is the possible corner-stone of the whole European social State.
. . . This holy, pacific, synarchic authority, fifty-five thousand
years old, uniting Science and religion, blessing all cults, all
universities, all nations, embracing entire Humanity and Heaven
in one and the same intelligence, in one and the same love. . . .
In fact, it is not an ordinary work, nor can any century under­
take it without the aid of initiates of the highest grade, this
synthetic work which was accomplished at Alexandria under the
invisible breath of Christ; although under the eyes and hand of
Caesarism, the Epoptes who, visible or invisible, presided at this
synthetic work had to mask esotericism under exotericism,
Israelito-Christianity under Helleno-Christianity. . . . It is thus
that the Helleno-Christianity included nominally or really all the
degrees corresponding to the initiations of the ancient univer­
sities, of the Jewish Cabala, of Chaldea, of Egypt, of Thrace, etc.
. . . In all antiquity the Law signified the Science of things
natural, human, and divine.”
He further speaks of
“ The Cosmic Mysteries such as are revered not only by
Judaeo-Christian cabalists. such as are practised in secret, net only
by the actual disciples of John the Baptist and certain esoteric
schools of Cairo, Sinai, Arabia, but also as are scientifically pro­
fessed by the Magi of Agarttha.”
Again he explains “ This spirit is always that of the
Universal Alliance of all members of Humanity, that
of the indissoluble Union of Science and of Religion in
all their universality.” Now we know that, according
to himself, Steiner’s mission was: “ To link together
Science and Religion. Bring God into Science and
nature into religion, and so fecundate anew Art and
Life.” It was Agarttha too “ who, at the beginning of
modern times, everywhere renewed, through the Judaeo-
Christians, the thousands of associations developed to­
day under the name of Freemasonry.” As Schure
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
3l6
wrote: “ The tradition of esoteric Christianity, properly
speaking, is directly and uninterruptedly attached to the
famous and mysterious Manes, founder of Manichaeism,
who lived in Persia in the fourth century.” This sect
arose out of the influence of the Jewish School of
Alexandria.
Like Mazzini who cried: Associate! Associate!
Associate! Saint-Yves d’Alveydre’s cry was:
“ Synarchy! Synarchy! Synarchy! thus save your tiaras,
your universities, your crowns, your republics, all that is yours,
all, including what was legitimate in the Revolution of 1789 in its
social promises, that the Synarchy Judaeo-Christian alone can main­
tain and accomplish. Unite in that Law, teaching bodies,
ecclesiastic or laic; juridical bodies; economic bodies.”
Once more Steiner’s teaching corresponds, for his
" Threefold State ” is Economic life; Public Rights; In­
tellectual and Spiritual life—religion, teaching, art, etc.!
In conclusion:
“ This holy Agarttha which I have revealed to you in this
present book is anti-sectarian pair excellence, and far from using
its influence over Asia to obstruct a European Synarchy, it only
awaits a gesture from you, in this sense, to give you gradually
the fraternal communion of all sciences, of all arts which it con­
ceals under the secret of the Mysteries, the nomenclature of which
is contained in the, texts of our admirable Judaeo-Christian Reli­
gion. . . . Thus, finally united anew by the Synarchic Law, the
Judaeo-Christians of the Promise and with them the other human
communions will see above in the clouds, surrounded by angels,
spirits, and souls of saints the glorious body of Christ, and be­
hind the solar aureole of his head, the Triangle of Fire bearing
the sacred name of Yod, He, Vau, He [the Tetragrammaton of
the Jews and the Gnostic Solar Christ!].”
And to-day are we not fast coming under the three­
fold Law of some such secret Synarchy: Religions—the
cry of unification of sects and cults under the propaganda
of the New York Theosophist, Mrs. Alice A. Bailey,
under her Tibet Master and Hierarchy of Supermen—
one family, one humanity, one life? Also in the earlier
THE SYNARCHY OF AGARTTHA 317
“ Parliament of Religions/’ in Chicago. Economic—the
insidious P.E.P.—Political Economic Planning—of
Israel Moses Sieff, which has got such a hold upon this
country and is in apparent partnership with G. D. H.
Cole’s Principles of Economic Planning which has ap­
peared under the banner of Zionism and Freemasonry!
International Politics—the Judseo-Masonic League of
Nations!
In 1869 the Chevalier Gougenot des Mousseaux
wrote in his book, Le Juif, Le Judaisme et La Judaisation
des Peuples Chretiens:
“ The anti-religious but, above all, anti-Christian efforts
which distinguish the present epoch have a character of con­
centration and universality which marks the stamp of the Jew,
the supreme patron of the unification of peoples, because he is the
cosmopolitan people par excellence; because the Jew prepares by
the licence of libre-pensee, the era called by him Messianic—the
day of his universal triumph. . . . The character of universality
will be noted in L’Alliance-israelite-universelle, in the Universal
Association of Freemasonry. . . .”
Moreover, in support of the above, we quote, in
Jewish World of 9 and 16 February, 1883:
“ The dispersion of the Jews has rendered them a cosmo­
politan people. They are the only cosmopolitan people, and in
this capacity must act, and are acting, as a solvent of national
and racial differences. The great Ideal of Judaism is not that
Jews shall be allowed to flock together one day in some hole-
and-corner fashion, for, if not tribal, at any rate separatist objects;
but that the whole world shall be imbued with Jewish teachings,
and that in a Universal Brotherhood of Nations—a greater Juda­
ism, in fact—all the separate races and religions shall disappear.
. . . The new Constitution of the [Jewish] Board of Deputies
marks an epoch in the history of that important institution. . . .
The real importance of the new Constitution is . . . that it provides
a machinery for enabling the Jews of England to work together
when the occasion requires—that in short it organises the Jews of
the whole Empire, and renders their aggregate force available
in cases of emergency.”
And of these cabalistic sects, east and west, des
THE TRAIL OF THE SERPENT
318
Mousseaux, in 1869, raised a voice of warning, all un­
heeded :
“ There will burst forth one fine evening one of these for­
midable crises which will shake the earth and which occult
societies have long prepared for Christian society, and then per­
haps will suddenly appear in open day, throughout the entire
world, all the militia, all the fraternal and unknown sects of the
Cabala. The ignorance, the carelessness in which we live, of
their sinister existence, their affinities, and their immense ramifi­
cations will in no way prevent them from recognising each other,
and under the banner of no matter what universal alliance, giving
each other the kiss of Peace, they will hasten to gather together
under one Chief. . .
The above book of Gougenot des Mousseaux was
published in 1869 and was immediately bought up, and
save for a few odd copies completely disappeared! It
was not until ten years after his mysterious death that
a second edition was allowed to be published in 1886, and
finally circulated.
In conclusion, these, then, are the results of our
further investigations into the many secret and occult
societies both of yesterday and to-day, as published in
the jPatriot from 19^0 to 1935. Everything seems to
point to the cabalistic and revolutionary Jew as the
Master-mind working behind them, using them as pawns
in his great gamble and world-wide conspiracy, which
would disintegrate and destroy, not only the Christian
Faith, but the entire traditions of Western civilisation.
His weapon of control and attack being the Triangle of
Fire, these magnetic-forces of Life which' can both slay
and make alive, and by which he professes to free and
enlighten the peoples, only the more surely to bind,
unify, and enslave them under some unknown and alien
Ruler. Moreover, to forward this sinister gamble he
entraps and blinds them with the ancient catch-words:
“ Know Thyself ” and “ Ye shall be as Gods.” That is
Illuminism or so-called Liberation of Man—Free not to
use his freedom for himself, but to fulfil the Plans of
the Great Conspiracy and its Supreme Pontiff!
I N D E X
A
Agarttha, 310—316
“ Akashic Records,” 311, 314
Albigenses, 20, 229
Algerian Problem, 131—134
Alliance internationale de la
democratie-socialiste, 104
Alliance-israelite-universelle, 77>
96—99, 191
Alliance - republicaine - univer-
selle, 95
Ameer Ali, 38
Amis reunis, 71, 74
A.M.O.R.C., 294—296
Anatomy of Revolution, 20, I73>
180, 203, 256
Ancient Masonry, 197
Andrea Jean Valentin, 51, 54
Annales maqonniques universelles,
156
Anthroposophical Society, 178,
203, 234
Anthroposophical Society—Agri­
culture, 213
Anthroposophical Society—As­
tronomy, 216
Anthroposophical Society—New
Therapy, 216
Anti-Defamation League, 130
Anti-Semitism, 120, 121, 126,
129—131, 136, 223
Arcane Schools, 19, 33, 178
Archives israelites, 97, 98, 99, 191
Arundale, Dr. George Sidney, 196
Assassins, 34, 38—42, 66, 184
Association magonnique inter-
nationale, 149, 153—157, 160
Atlantean Adepts, 257, 262
Atlantis, 223, 310—312
Avalon, Arthur, 236
B
Babalon, Lady, 260
Badmaev, 171, 172
Bahai Movement, 191
Bailey, Mrs. Alice A., 174, 207,
264, 270 et seq., 284, 316
Bakunin, 80, 104, 105, 107, 120
Baphomet, 41, 66, 257, 560
Bartlett, Ashmead, 186
Batault, George, 28, 124
Beausobre, de, 31
Bela Kuhn, 134, 143
B’nai B’rith, 98, 99
Benamozegh, Rabbi, 255
Besant. Mrs., 173, 180, 181, 188,
190, 194
Betyies, 2 et seq.
B i n e , L e v y . 9 9
Black Magic, 263, 264, 265, 266
Black Mass, 49, 265, 267
Blanc, Louis, 63, 74, 82
Blavatsky, Mme, 43, 44, 91, 173,
180, 277, 283, 303
Blood sacrifice, 259, 260
Bock, Baron de, 101
Boehme, Jacob, 58, 171, 221, 222
Bond, Bligh, 291, 293
Bord, Gustave, 52, 55, 74, 137,
221
Brenier, Flavien, 255, 300
Bricaud, Joanny, 58, 171, 176,
242, 265, 267
British Weleda Co., Ltd., 216
Brotherhood of Light, 10, 27
Brothers of Service, 186
Brunelliere, F., 70
Brunton, Paul, 247, 248
C
Cabala, Magical, 25, 56, 58
Cabala, Theoretical, 21, 25, 56
Cabalistic and Gnostic renais­
sance, 176
Cabalists, 20, 176
Cabiri, 2, 4, 5, 7
Cabiric gods, 3
Caduceus, 8, 41, 237
INDEX
320
Cagliostro, 63, 72 et seq., 89, 173
Canon, 11
Caps, black, 304
Caps, red, 304
Caps, yellow, 304
Carbonari, 91 et seq., 139, J7 3 »
177
Carpocratians, 30
Cerfberr#de Medelheim, 122
Chaldeans, 11, 17, 33, 47, 264
Charbonnerie, 93
“ Cheiro,” 273
Christ Democracy, 285, 289
Christian Community Church, 228
Christgemeinschaft, 207, 228
Chymical Wedding, 54
Clavel, 72, 80, 88, 100
Clootz, Anacharsis, 213
Clymer, Dr. Swinburne, 297
Cohen, Kadmi, 117 et seq., 210
Co-Masonry, 159, 183, 194, 195
Commonweal, 186
Commonwealth of India Bill, 187,
188
Communeros, 93, 148
Communes, 103, 148
Confederation of Initiates, 296
Confederation of Philosophers, 11
Cooke, H. P., 14
Corduero, 23
Correspondences, 235
Corybantes, 6, 38
"Cosmic Christ,” 217, 3x6
Cr^mieux, 74, 96, 97, 98, 132
Crowley, Aleister, 179, 234, 256—
263
Crux Ansata, 14
Cumont, Franz, 17
Curetes, 7
D
Dactyles, 6, 38
“ Dargon,” or G.G., 20, 173, 180,
203, 256
Daste, Louis, 55, 70, 74
Daudet, Leon, 165
David-Neel, Mme, 305
Deraismes, Maria, 192
Dervishes, 44
Deschamps and Jannet, 74, 85, 86,
96, 138, 149, 150
Disraeli, 70, 109
Doinel, 74, 176
Dollinger, 5
Drach, Rabbi, 3
Droit Humain, 82, 159, 192—194,
195
Druids, 7
Drumont, Edouard, 97
Druses, 42, 177
E
Egg, 4
Egyptian Mysteries, 10
“ Elder Brothers,” 230, 239, 251,
279, 282, 283, 290
Eleusis, Mysteries of, 8, 10
Elus Coens, 55—58
Emerald Tablet, 238
Encyclopaedists, 56, 68, 77, 88,
103, 106, 147
Engel, Leopold, 177, 256
Equinox, 257
Essenes, 29, 218
Etude abrigee de la Franc-magon-
nerie Mixte, 192
Eurhythmy, 253
F
Faber, 12
Favre, Lieut.-Col., 306
Federation jurassienne, 105
Felkin, Dr., 40, 178, 238, 282
Ferguson, Charles W., 242
“ Fishers of Men,” 227
Forestier, R. le, 55, 68, 71, 256
Fortune, Dion, 27, 230—239, 263
Franck, Adolphe, 21, 54
Francs-juges, 101
Fraternity of Ancient Free­
masons, 198, 199
Fraternity of Inner Light, 230
et seq.
Freemasons, Continental, 137
Fiilop-Miller, Rene, 68, 88, 128
G
Gaetano, 92
Gandhi, 181, 187, 189
INDEX
Ge-lug-pas, 304
Generation, universal, 13, 80
Gnostic Church, Universal—
O.T.O., 260
Gnostics, 25, 176
Gobi Desert, 271, 302, 312
“ Goetheanum Speech Chorus,”
275
Golden Dawn, 178, 234, 252, 257,
267
Gombos, Julius, 135
Gosse, Miss Bothwell, 198
Grabianka, 59, 138
Grand Lodge of England and
Women Masons, 201
Great White Lodge, 230, 265, 271
Guenon, Rene, 43, no, 175, 179,
253
Guillebert, Henri de, 219
Gurdjieff, 242
Guyot, Felix, 249—251
H
Hagel, Charles, 131
Hague Court of Justice, 160
Hammer, von, 34, 35, 37, 40, 42
Hartmann, Franz, 177, 178
Heart of Asia, 302
Heindel, Max, 179, 220, 232, 238,
311
Helmont, van, 56
Hermetic Brotherhood of Light,
258
Herzl, Theodore, i2r, 122
Hitler, Adolphe, 145
Holy Royal Arch degree, 196
Hong or Triad, 308
Hotel d’Holbach, 103
House of Wisdom, Cairo, 34, 38
I
I.A.O., 2, 304
Illuminati, Bavarian, 67—71, 77
Illuminis d'Avignon, 58, 72
Illuminising the Lodges, 72
India: Bond or Free?, 181, 188
Indian Commonwealth Bill, 187,
188
321
Indian Home Rule League, 186,
187 .
Initiations and Initiates in Tibet,
305
I.N.R.I., 53, 83, 84, 303
“ Inner Government of the
World”—Mrs. Besant, 183;
Mrs. Bailey, 271
Interlaced Triangle, 117, 254
International Association of
Workers, 104
Invisible Control—Mrs. Meurig
Morris, 251
Ismailis, 34
Israel aux mystSrieux destins,
121
J
James, William, 291
Jannet, Claudio, 79, 109
Jesuits, 68
Jeune-Allemagne, Jeune-Europe,
Jeune-Italie, 95
Jewish Captivity, 24
Jewish Chronicle, 98, 122, 127
Jewish Messenger, 98
Jewish Pageant, 114
Jewish Question, 114, 136, 140
Jewish State, 121
Jewish World, 98, 106, 317
Jews of Alexandria, 26, 27, 29,
39, 40, 123, 125, 299, 310, 315
Jews in Germany, 126
Jews in Hungary, 127, 128, 134
Jews and Weishaupt, 69
Johannism, 63
Joly, Maurice, 276
Judaeo-Christians, Agarttha, 313
et seq.
Juges-philosophes-inconnus, 64
K
Kadosch Grade, 64, 72, 79, 85—
87
Kargyutpas, 304
Karmathites, 34
Keys of the East, 253
Khlysty, 41, 128
21
INDEX
Krishnamurti, 195, 197
Kropotkin, 105, 108
Kundalini, 209, 236
Kundalini Yoga, 235
322
L
Lallemand, Marcel, 170
Lamas, 304, 305
Lambelin, Roger, 130
Lantoine, Albert, 87, 193, 198
Law against secret societies in
Britain, 267
Lazare, Bernard, 25, 28, 69, 123
Lead, Jane, 54, 221, 222
Leadbeater, 195
League of Nations, 95, 99, 160—
165, 191, 192, 314
League of Neighbours, 191, 192
Lebey, Andre, 162
Le Couteulx de Canteleu, 10, 66,
72, 101, 161
Lemuria, 223, 310, 311
Lennhof, 144
L et us in, 291
Levy, Eliphas, 57, 58, 62, 90, 174,
253. 254, 263
Levy, Oscar, 91
Lewis, Harve Spencer, 295
Liberation, 285
Libraries, Himalayan, 170, 310,
313
Light of E gypt, 295
Ligue internationale des F .\ M .\,
1 44. 159
Loge N ationale a.ux Trois Globes,
La Grande, 102, 145
Loge Royal York A V A m itii, La
Grande, 102, 145
Loic, Georges, 159—161
Long L ivers, The, 55
Lost Word, 83, 303
Lotus Blanc, 307
Loyer, P., 150
Luchet, de, 67, 221, 234, 276
Lutyens, Lady Emily, 279
M
MacDonald, Ramsay, 156, 189
Mackay, Albert G., 20, 21, 55
Macrisi, 35
M agick, 234, 258
Magnetic Fluid, 52, 56
Maitreya, 271, 307
Manichaeans, 30—33, 206, 308
M an-Isis, 297
Mantrams, 274
Marie-Antoinette, 63, 70, 73—77
Marmontel, 73
Marques-Riviere, 137
Martin, Dr. Georges, 192
Martinists, 60, 140, 172, 176
Marx, Karl, 103 et seq.
Masonry, Belgium, 159
Masonry, Blue, 78
Masonry, Germany, 102, 145
Masonry, Hungary, 134, 143
Masonry, Poland, 141—143
Masonry, Portugal, 150
Masonry, Russia, 138—140
Masonry, Spain, 146—150
Masonry & Stavisky, 165—169
Masters, Theosophical, 270, 271,
272
Mazdaism, 16
Mazzini, 94, 96, 104, nr, 173
Meadows-Taylor, 184
Meher Baba, Shri, 246—248
Mendelssohn, Moses, 69, 99, 126
Metternich, Prince de, 92, 93, 138
Misraim Rite, 86, 89
Mithraism, 16—19, 30, 56
“ Modern Church,” 299
M orals and Dogmas, 1, 15
Mousseaux, Gougenot des, r, 4,
29, 47, 92, 96, 122, 251, 317, 318
M ystkres du Paganisme, 6
Mysteria- M ystica M axim a, 262
M ysterie of the Rosie Cross, 53>
54
“ Mystery of Golgotha,” 208
Mystic Repast, 14, 84, 261
N
National Congress, India, 181,
186—189
Necklace Affair, 74
Necromancy, 264
Nehru, Jawaharlal, 181, 189
“ New Era,” 301
INDEX 323
N ew India, 183, 186
N ew O rder of the Age$, 200, 288,
297
N ext Three Years, 279, 284
Nicolas II, 140, 171
Nihilists, 105
Nom ades, 117—120
Nossig, Dr. Alfred, 192
Nowaira, 35
Nubius, 91, 92, 93
O
Oaths, 30, 65, 101, 233
Occult Schools, Future, 276
O’Dwyer, Sir Michael, 187
Olcott, Col., 178
Oliphant, Laurence, 43
“ Order of Christ,” 64
O rdre de la Rose-Croix esotirique,
17 7 , 256
Ordre des Tem pliers Orientaux,
178
O.T.O., 178, 257, 260
Ordre renove des Illuminati Ger­
m ania, 177, 256
Ormuzd, 16, 22
Ouspensky, 239
P
Paleologue, 172
Panacea Society, 54, 221 et seq.
“ Papus,” Dr. G. Encausse, 61,
140. 171, 263
Paracelsus, 52, 264
Parliament 6f Religions, 190, 191
Pasqually, Martines de, 55—58,
173
Patriot, the, v, 136, 173, 203, 257
Pelley, William Dudley, 285 et
seq.
Pentagram, 13, 83, 209
P. E. P., 317
Pernety, 58, 59
Pestel, 139, 140
Philadelphians, 222
Philalethes, 55, 72
Philippe, Maitre, 140, 171, 173
Philo of Alexandria, 25, 26, 40,
208
Philosophy of Fire, 298, 299
Piccolo Tigre, 91, 94
Pike, Albert, r, 4, n , 14, i 5>25,
63
Pillars, cabalistic, 80, 238, 308
Pineal Gland, 237
Plantagenet, Edouard, 156
Plato, 25, 208
Poncins, Leon de, 77, 99, 123, 130,
134, 143, 152, 170
Portuguese Revolution, 77
Press, 129—131
Price, Harry, 266
Problbme Juif, 28, 29, 124
Pro Flacco, 125
Psychical Research Society, 266,
291, 293, 294
Pythagoras, 26, 29
Pythoness, 250, 251'
R
Ragoczy, 173, 272
Ragon, 63, 64, 78, 81, 83, 85, 86,
89
Rais, Gilles de, 265
Ramakrishna, Yogi, 242
Randolph, Dr., 297, 298
Rappoport, Dr. Angelo, 105, 106,
140
Rasputin, 140, 171, 172
Reghellini de Schio, 29, 198
Reichenbach, 215
Revolution, French, 67 et seq.
Revolution, Russian, 103, 126, 129
Revolution, Spanish, 149
Revue Internationale des Societes
Secretes, R .I.S.S., 49, 102,
108, 112, 141, 150, 159, 168,
176, 199
Rhythmic Movement, 253, 274
Ribot, 6
Roerich, Nicholas, 301—303
Romance of a People, 114—117
R. R. et A. C., 14, 5 3 , 57 , 178,
198, 209, 215, 252, 257, 282
Rose-Croix grade, 64, 77, 79, 81—
85
Rosenkreutz, Christian, 50 et seq.,
174, 206, 209, 282
Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception,
179, 238
Rosicrucian Fellowship, 179, 234
324
Rosicrucians, 50—55
Russian Sects, 128
•S
’
Sabeism, 1 et seq., II, 47
Sacy, Silvestre de, 6, 34, 299
Sainte-Croix, 6
Saint-Germain, 73, 173—175, 272
Saint-Martin, 59, 72, 73, 86
Saint-Yves d’AIveydre, 310
Samber, Robert, 55
Sanctum Regnum, 254
Sat-Sanga, 245
Savalette de Langes, 71, 73
Schiff, Jacob, 106
Schure, Edouard, 191, 204, 217,
3ii
S.C.R., 213
Seabrook, W. B., 47
Seal or Signet of Solomon, 117,
254
S ecret Sects of Syria, 18, 28, 33,
3 9
Secret Societies of China, 306
Sepher Yetzirah, 21, 27, 57
Sephiroth, 21
“ Serpent Power,” 236, 299
Seton, Dr. Julia, 299—301'
Shambhala, 271, 277, 302
Shekinah, 23
Shemahamphoras, 90
Silver Shirts, 285
Silver Shirts, doctrine, 289
Sleeman, 184
Sokoloff, 172
Sorcery, illusion, 7, 8, 11, 38, 44,
263
Sotheran, Charles, 288
Southcott, Joanna, 225—227
Soviet Russia, 135, 276, 281, 295
Spedalieri, Baron, 253
Sphinx to Christ, From, 217, 310
Springett, Bernard, 18, 28, 33, 38,
42, 45, 46, 48
S.R.I.A., 267
Stavisky Scandals, 165—169
Steed, Wickham, 134
Steffen, Albert, 207, 228
Steiner, Dr. Rudolf, 41, 9 1* I03 >
178, 196, 203 et seq., 238, 310,
3 i i , 315
INDEX
Stella M atutina, 5, 14, 27, 40, 45,
57, no, 178
Sufees, 44
Sun Yat-sen, 308, 309
Supreme Councils, Charleston, 198
Swara, 214, 236
Swedenborg, 58, 59, 60, 61, 7r,
72, 171, 178, 203
Sydenham, Lord, 183
T
Teder; Martinist ritual, 60
Telechines, 6
Templars, 38, 62, 65, 101, 283,
284
Tetragrammaton, 116, 316
Theosophical Society, 159, 170,
173, 177—202, 234
Thesmophories, 9
Threefold Movement, 190
Threefold State, 211—213, 316
Thugs, 184—186
Tibet’s Great Y ogi M ilarepa, 304
Tilly, Comte de Grasse, 146, 159,
198
Tormay, Cecile de, 127, 134
Tree of Life, Cabalistic, 21
Triangle of Fire, 5, 81, 116, 316
Trinity, Gnostic, 209
Turanians, 43
U
Union and Progress, Committee
of, 158
“ Universal Kingdom,” 254
Universal Republic, Mazzini, 9 5 ,
96 _
Universe Israelite, 98, 135
“ Unsigned Letters,” 282
V
Vallery-Radot, 106, 108, 109, in
Vehm, H oly, 100, 101
Vibrations, 57, 207, 232, 253, 296
Vivekananda, Swami, 190, 242,
244
Vulliaud, Paul, 52, 221
INDEX
W
325
Waite, A. E., 178
Weishaupt, 67—71, 80, 87, 103,
173, *77
West, Geoffrey, 189
Wilhelmsbad Congress, 60, 70
Wilmshurst, W. L., 196
Wirth, Oswald, 199, 200, 202
W issend, 100
Witt, Jean, 94
Women’s Masonry, 87
World Faith, 281
“ World Federation State,” 281
Wynn Westcott, Dr. Wm., 178,
1 79. 239, 2 5 3 , 267
Y
Yarker, J., 19, 33, 43, 55, 178,
1 9 4 , 3 1 2
Yezidis, 46—49
Yoga, 240, 241, 244
Yogananda, Swami, 190, 244
Yoga for the W est, 249
Yogoda, 245
Z
Zohar, 21, 22, 27, 54, 57
Zoroastrianism, 16, 27
