{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__leo-wold___remarks_on_the_abracadabra_of_the_nineteenth_century.pdf","mytitle":"Remarks On The Abracadabra Of The Nineteenth Century","mylang":"de"}
REMARKS
ON
THE ABRACADABRA
• • < •
OI'TB8
NfnrttmtfJ ~mtury ;
08 ON'' . .•..,
Da. SAMUEL HAHNEMANN'S
HOM<EOPATHIC MEDICINE,
1'I'ITII PABTICVLA.B Blln.UNCB TO
Da. CONSTANTINE HERING'S
"OONCJSE vtEW Ot' TBB BIBB AND PROGRB88 OP HOM<EOPATBIC MEDICINE,"
l'blladtlpbla, Rill
BY
WILLIA.M LEO-WOLF, M.D.
,.
When thu• ripe Ilea are to perfection eprung,
Full~rrowo aod lit tu grace " mortal tongue,
ThroTthouaand vente implllient forth they flow,
And ruah In mllliooeoo the world beluw.-Pol'B.
NEW-YORK:
1835.
PUBU8H&D BY CAREY, LEA AND BLANCHARD, IN l'lllLAI•ELPHIA.
Digitized by Google
•
•
(
'\
c
-·
8IOLOft
UBP·~··
Ellft&&D according to Act of Congreee, in the. year 1885, by WILLI.ur Lao-Wor.r,
M.D. in the Clerk'• Oaice of the District Court ofthe Southem District of New-
York.
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
Hiatorical and biographical sketch of the hOIDG!Opllthic doctrine and of
....
Hahnemann t
Remarks on Dr. Hering'a reproach of the incapability and dishonesty of
the apothecariea at Leipzig, and on the state ofplwmacyin GermaDy M
Fragmentaryremarks on the pteaent ata&e ofpractical medicine andaurgery _.,
V On the homceopathic doctrine gene~y 68
VThe three fundamental muima ofh011U80pathia in general 11
Reaults of experiments with aimple drugs on healthy peraona U
The homceopathic "law ofnatnte," or the maxim, aimilia aimilibuaourantur 76
Hahoemann'a "greattruth," that itchiathe onlycanae ofallchroDicdiaeaaea 168
·t The third henueopathic maxim, or that it ia impoaaible to adminiater too
amall a doae ofa drug - 179
Medical virtuea developed from all natural aobetancea, and eapecially from
eimple drugs - 181
VThe energy ofeolut.iona of medicinal aubatancea exceaeively increued by
their tranamiasion from place to place - - - - - 5118
r Direful conaequencea ofthe homceopathic auperatition ifgenerally adopted 13'7
Homceopathia contradicted by Hahnemaon'a earlier public atatemellta, hia
later retractions, etc. - - 139
Conclnaion - 163
EXPLANATION OF THE VIGNETTE.
The "old~."aittiog in themegic diacnm.proclaims to the world tbecbarm olhill'
discovered "z- iijftlltUU" wriuen in the iaverae abape of.the old .A~<- pap
262) Uul containing the IIIIID8 uneven number of letters,-" numero deus imE gaud~n
- Virg. BuccoL He ia just engapd in developing ~ from a simple drug trituration,
u ia clearly aeen by a very large and fiery one-"ignea ineat illia via"-whi ia eacapiq
from the mortar at the command of hie macic wand, and which, On account of ita aise,
appears to belong, at leaat, to the awieth poteu.-The negro, thankful for lhe gratif1inJ.
p~cta of hie physical emancipation, which hu already happily succeeded witli one half
of hie sooty skiD, uaiata the "gnat ~IIClor of ~ in hie "gipntic _.l," and de-
velopea the thirtieth potenz from table salt, by aliakinJt "frtma a6ow ~."-It apJiftl'll
hie Zeal actuated him too much, and tbat he hu ehalten, contrary te the directions of the
"grllllt rifortMt'," too violently and too often, as numerous spirits rush out of the vial. One
ot them, probabl:r in consequence of his particularly glorifoid antipeoric nature, gets hold of
the great croae of the order of the ITOH, which, it is rumoured, hU lately been created br
the great magician, in spite of the "boyorMU qf t1u Trm.f• ad prirtea of Ewt1pe;"' and
ia reserved particularly aa a mllllilicent reward lor the anJuoua zs8l of hie miasionariea, in
propagating the "gnat ,..,.,.. in "EIVIJt tlu llJIItd of_,.. ad tlu ~ pltl OIHIII,"
Ud particularly in A.merica.-The EtmLlema ofall the "kant«llulftbcr" of the 11ea11nc an,
accumulated for acorea of centuries, have ·"falleta to tlu ,.-d;"' the aticlt of...Escu18piua
u well u the scutcheon of Minerva are broken to pieces; and eYeD the favorite biM a£
A.thene, which so Jon~ hu been her faithful companion, ia dead ;-••nequidquam HI08
e:rercet noctua canlllB, '-Virg. Georg. It died however, not from the hellebore, which
lUJ:Uriantly grows around the mysterious grotto, without any remedial effect : but of grief,
at seeing the new mathematical orinciples, and the other marveUoua reforms a£ the --
pe&itor of " GalWo adl14rwy:"
• • • IDe zue contra non immemor artie.
Omnia tranaformat - in miraoula rerwn.-VW,. 0..·
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Goog1e·
PREFACE.
The only probable reason for the long continuance of
those prejudices and superstitions which are not sus-
tained by the interests of large privileged classes ofso-
ciety, is, that when intelligent men know the tenets of
a doctrine to be inconsistent and false, they do not think
it worth while to examine it minutely, but leave the sub-
ject to the weak-minded and credulous, who, considering
siJence or mere satire as an indirect admission of their
extravagant and fanciful conceptions, generally become
firmer in their belief and bolder in their public conduct.
This appears also the principal reason why homreopa-
thia bas existed so long.
Adverse to controversy, the author of these remarks
never thought of expressing publicly his opinion of ho-
mooopathia until towards the end ofthe last year, when
he accidentally became acquainted with Dr. Hering's
" Concise View ofthe rise and progress ofthe homreo-
" pathic doctrine." He then clearly saw that the vota-
ries of this medical superstition had selected the United
States as the most propitious field for its propagation,
and that they would leave no stone unturned to pre-
possess the public in their favor.
Aware of the benefits to be derived by his adopted
country, from a faithful exposition of this new medical
doctrine, the original works of which are inaccessible to
those unacquainted, with the German language ; the au-
thor was instigated to this tedious task by the desire
also of vindicating the ·literary honor of Germany, his
native country, so much abused by the false reports of
the persecutions which Hahnemann had to suffer there
for truth's sake, of the high respect which he now
enjoys as a man and as a reformer of medicine, and by
Digitizep by Google
6
the wron~ statements in regard to the large number of
her distinguished physicians, said to have zealously
adopted this mode of treatment.
The following remarks were written merely as a re-
view, and were at first intended for an American medical
.periodical. As they ·did not appear in that form, the
author lately yielded to the repeated wishes of his pro-
fessional friends, collected the fragments, and now offers
them in their present form. The original destina-
tion of these remarks, the great difficulties of writing
in a foreign idiom, of correcting tJie manuscript, and
many other reasons, will explain the non-observance
ofa strict logical order, the occurrence offrequent repe-
titions. the long and numerous notes, and other defects,
for which the kind indulgence of the reader is humbly
requested. The author must state that a part ofthese de-
fects is to·be attributed also to the hope, cherished to the
last moment, ofbeing releasedfrom thispublication bythe
abler pen of some American colleague. Aod indeed, it is
difficult to comprehend, why such a pamphlet- as the
Concise View, could have been circulated for upwards
of eighteen months in a populous and enlightened city,
possessing a celebrated university, and so many distin-
guished professional men, without any pertinent public
censure ; and it must appear still more strange, that in
this city likewise, such a disgraceful publication as that
contained in theNew-York CommercialAdvertiser ofthe
7th of February last, and which will be mentioned here-
after, could also have remained unnoticed.-It cannot
be justly expected that well educated physicians and me-
dical authors should be constantly warring against all
kinds of charlatanism. Common quackery claims not to
be founded on scientific principles, it merely demands
implicit beliefin its arcana usually recommended for spe-
cial cases only, and does not, therefore, directly involve
misconceptions of a general character in regard to the
Digitized by Google
7
healing att ; hence, the injury done by it, is confiDed to
the credulity ofindividuals who, ifthey are disappointed,
must suffer the natural consequences of all imprudence.
But when charlatanism adopts the features ofa medical
system, and pretends to reform the healing art, by reject-
ing the fundamental principles of the human intellect
and the truths of all experience hitherto acknowledged,
by inventing supernatural powers, under the term laws of
nature, and by relying on false statements and illusory
facts; and when its adherents, either from ignorance
and self-deception, or from egoti!m and self-intere!t,
palm upon the public, under the cloak of philanthropy
and professional zeal, the grossest misconceptions, and
the most noxious superstitions; then the injury can easily
increase to an alarming extent before the public is un-
deceived, and it then becomes the imperative duty ofthe
profession frankly to state the true facts, and to explain
the true bearings ofso important a subject.
The author would farther state, that he has nevet read
one of the different German publicati9ns in opposition
to Hahnemannism, except some few lines of a review of
the Pseudomessias Medicus, written by one of his for-
mer respected colleagues,Doctor Simon, junior, at Ham-
burg, and published in the Allgemeine Medizinishe An·
nalen, (Feb. 1832), of his distinguished friend, Professor
Hecker, at Berlin; he has merely seen their titles in the
Leipzig book-catalogues, and is therefore ignorant whe•
ther he bas taken the same ground with other opposers
of Hahnemann's, or.not. It appears from the title of the
work mentioned, and similar ones subsequently published
by Dr. Simon, that this learned ~uthor bas dipped his
pen principally in the ink of ridicule and satire. Though
this course is almost inevitable to any one who writes
againstHahnemannism,asubject ofsuchvital importance
should, however, be examined differently; particularly
as the discussions which homreopathia, like similar su-
Digitized by Google
8
peratitions, excite, are so intimately connected with the
most subtile investigations in the natural sciences.and
metaphysi~, that they offer inexhaustible means for a
rational polemic. The author who advocates truth
should also remember, that it will never be sufficient
merely to ridicule and to despise such subjects, however
ridiculous and contemptible they may be. Rational
arguments, derived from the impartial scrutiny of expe-
rience, are, if any, the only ones, capable ofsuccessfully
combating the general predilection of man for the ex-
traordinary and miraculous, and of destroying the noxi-
ous infb,tence pf sophisms and pr~judices, rooted in ig-
norance and extravagant f8.Jlcy, or in the implicit belief
ofnak~d and delusive facts.
The author has also briefly alluded to some topics,
whi~h, ~hough not directly connected with homreopa-
~i~, appear to him worth noticing as erroneous con-
ceptions and obnoxious prejudices still existing ,among
the profession and the public. He wishes, however, that
these remarks may be considered only as th~ abstract
of his individual researches and experience, which he
thought his duty not to withhold, as they might, even if
he should be in the wrong. call forth an exchange of
opinions on these important subjects, which would be-
~efit the public and the profession.
ln CQn(flusion, the author will state that he will meet
all 'objections which may be made to his remarks in
a scientific and d!gnified manner ; if proffered in any
other mode, they wiJJ remain unanswered.-" Et refellere
" sine pertinacia, et refelli sine iracundia parati su-
" mus."-Cicero.
N~:w.You:, DecemlJer, 1834.
Digitized by Google
REMARKS ON HOMffiOPATHIA,
~c., ~c.
ALTHOUGH the doctrine of Hahnemann,or the homreopathic doc-
trine has within the last few years been adopted in this country
as the leading principle of medical practice by some respectable
physicians; it has, however, remained unknown to the mass of
the medical profeSiion, and has been but little noticed by the
medical periodicals.
The task of introducing this doctrine to the American public
has devolved upon Dr. Constantine Hering, of Philadelphia, who,
in his pamphlet entitled " A concise view of the rise and progress
of homreopathic medicine," Philadelphia, 1833, has given a brief
sketch of this remarkable literary phenomenon of the present age.
~ long as any doctrine or practi~ of the healing art remains
the rule of individual practitioners only, no one bas a right to
criticize it publicly; but if this doctrine is promulgated in such a·
manner as to mislead, and even to injure, the young medical
student as well as the public, it then becomes the imperative duty
ofevery man, who believes the whole doctrine to be founded upon
the grossest errors and cOntradictions, and who knows facts which
differ widely from the statements published, not to withhold the
&ruth, and to examine the subject by the tests of .reason and ex~
perience.
In order to remove any suspicions that the following pages are
more or less dictated by personal feelings, we must state, that in
our present retirement we are more than ever indifferent what
course of practice physicians may pursue to promote the interest of
their patients or their own. Had it not been for our reluctance to
appear before the public, and more especially in a controversy, we
sbould have vindicated our native country and the honor of
its prof&!Sional men, on a former occasion, when one of our
r•pected colleagues, in New-York, thought proper to honor; '
publicly, the homreopathic treatment of the Asiatic cholera by
camphor •ith the term " German treatment"
9
Digitized by Google
10
We regret very much, that the author of the above men&ioned
pamphlet did not submit the subject scientifi~lly to the profession
alone, before addressing it to the public ; and also, that he has
attempted to forestall public opinion, by blending the moral and
intellectual standing of the author of homorepathia with the
doctrine itself. Had his course been otherwise, the whole contro-
versy would have been confined within the limits of a free scientific
discussion, and it would not have been necessary to divest the
subject of personal considerations not belonging to it, nor to dispel
the halo cast over Hahneinann by,his disciples and followers. As
he has done this, however, without due regard to the dignity
of one of the most noble and beneficial sciences and of its faithful
servants, it is obvious, that studied delicacy cannot be reciprocally
expected from any man, who bas always been zealously attached
to his profession, who is conscious of what mankind owes to the
noble exertions of those distinguished in the history and literature
of medicine, and who will neYer consent to receive, in place of the
latter, a methodical charlatanism, based upon the most absurd
conceptions and the rudest empiricism.
Every impartial reader of the "Concise View" must be gratified
to find in the author a man of learning and of professional cha-
·racter. No one could object to his zeal for adopting the homreo-
pathic doctrine, and for introducing it into this country. The
pursuit (I( such high objects as the health and life of his fellow-men,
must claim indulgence for every one, an~ especially for him who
devotes himself to the healing art, even if his scientific views;
whether original or embraced from other sources, should be con-
tradictory to common sense and to the experience of the most
eminent men of. this and former ages. . How many men of the
greatest attainments in particular sciences and arts, and of the
purest moral character, have believed and even now admit things
incompatible with the laws of human intellect, and contrary to all
experience ! How numerous the confirmations of Cicero's re-
mark, " Nihil tam absurde dici potest, quod non dicatur ab aliquo
" philosophorum !" But if a man is so led away by his zeal, or by
any other motives, as to publish for facts, statements which are
erroneous, and by which the public min~ may easily be misguided,
' concerning such valuable and irreparable objects as life and health ;
then, the most charitable conjecture is his want of true information
on the subject.
Digitized by Google
11
It is a very remarkable, and in fact a characteristic feature of the
bomc::eopathic doctrine, that most of its follower8, and also the
author of the concise view, are obliged, in its support, to disregard
not only all medical knowledge hitherto considered as highly
valuable by the profession ; but to proclaim its inventor, Samuel
Hahnemann, the greatest philosopher, the first medical genius of
every age, and almost a saint. It appears as if they felt their
doctrhae to he inconsistent with every law of the human under-
standing, and endeavored to compensate for its contradictions and
defects by representing Hahnemann as a martyr for truth, by
canonizing him though yet alive, and by making his suggestions
and tenets the objects of implicit faith and worship.-But what has
a medical doctrine, or any other scientific hypothesis, to do with
the character of its founder? Francis Bacon says very correctly
in his Organon: "Pessima enim res est errorum apotheosis, et pro
"peste in~llectus habenda est, si vanis accedit veneratio." Kepler's
and Newton's immensely valuable discoveries would be equally
esteemed, had their characters as men been less pious and moral.
The life of Francis Bacon, whom we have just quoted, was by no
means pure, still his Organon and his other writings have lasted
for centuries ; and will ever be known as the master works of the
human intellect.* John Brown's intemperate habits were known
to all his followers, yet this did not prevent the adoption and ex-
tension of his doctrine.
On the first page of his pamphlet, we read with the greatest
astonishmentthe following: "Het who had himselfnever assumed
"an offensive attitude, and the truth of whose doctrines only could
"with'propriety be combated, ought to have been treated withdue
• As Dr. Hering eeems.., compere, also, the abeurditiea and ra~ ofhia "great
medical genius," with this master work ofFr&Rcia Bacon above mentioned, (see I. c.
p. 6.) we shall quote many paasagea of this and the other works of thia truly great
reformer of all natural11Cieacea, who 80 gallantly combated the ach~laatic philosophy,
tbia mother of doctrines equally superstitious, and similar to those of Hahnemann.
If ho111180pathiats had eTer read and understood one page of Bacoo'e Organon, they
would DeTer hue beea ao childish as to believe, that Habnemann's Organon muat be
equally valuable, because he was bold enough to give to his miserable patch-work the
-e title, under the fooliah impreaaion that it will reiOrm medicine; they would then
also hew, that no man waa more cautious against all delueions of the senses, and
all \be miatakes and false concluaions, ariaing from false conceptions, than Francis
Bacon; and -that he waa always particularly anxious to recoiDIBend the minute m.
Yealigation of the catue& of phenomena, saying, " recte ponitur: vere scire eeae per
eausaa acire." A maxim 80 much ridiculed and deapiae4 by HahneiiiUIIl and his
followers!
.I He, in the language of homreopathiata, always refers to Hahnemann; like the dis-
Cipl88 of Pythagoras, they think to prove the ·truth of any thiag, by saying " cuw~
•·" "He has said it."
Digitized by Google
12
"respect; which I regret to say, be did not receiYe at the hands ot
"some ofthe physicians in Germany." Now these things may well
be stated in a country, where this whole controversy is little
known, and will never be fully understood ; for it is not probable
that any American would undertake the tedious task of perusing
all the essays published pro and coo, in Germany, on this subject.
Every German, however, who is well acquainted with the literary
history of the age, and with the origin and progress of the homceo-
pathic doctrine in his native country must admit, that since the
time of Paracelsus, who was in many respects truly distinguished
as a great medical genius, no professional author bas treated the
greatest physicians and medical authors of past and present ages,
with less reepect and more unblushing impudence than Samuel
Hahnemann, though he was guilty ofthe grossest and repea~d im-
positions upon the public. About the year 1800 he advertised, ex-
tensively, a new salt, the discovery of which he chi.imed and which
he offered for sale, under the name of alkalipneum, at the moderate
price of one louisd'or (about $4) per ounce. The society for the
promotion of natural sciences at Berlin desired to become ac-
quainted with this new substance, which, as Hahnemann stated,
would exercise a great influence upon chemistry. They procured an
ounce of it from his agent at Leipzig, which was analyzed by some
of the. greatest chemists of the age, Professors Karsten, Hermb-
staedt and Klaproth ; and these men pronounced it, in the trans-
actions of that society, as nothing but common borax, a pound of
which costs but a few cents.* Shortly afterwards, be advertised
his "infallible preventive of scarlet fever," as he termed it; the
priceof this, also, was a louisd'or; but being disappointed in the sale
thereof, be afterwards confessed it to consist of nothing but a few
grains of the extract of belladonna dissolved in water; also,
worth aboutafew cents. Who, now, we ask, would consider a man
trustworthy and honorable, particularly a physician, distinguished
for some knowledge and talents who, from the basest interest
becomes a public impostor, and withholds from his fellow-men,
even for a single hcmr, what be considers to be a preventive of a
dangerous and frequently fatal disease, merely because poor people
are unable to pay him four dollars for what costs him but a few cents1
The able Professor Joerg, at Leipzig, has proved by laborious
* See the celebrated German Literary Gazette, the Jen•er Literatur-Zeitung
Beylage fur 1801, No. 1. ,
Digitized by Google
13
investigations that many of the quotations from old medical authors,
made by Hahnemann in support of his doctrine, are adulterated
and false. Can any one confide in the veracity of such a man
without the most unquestionable evidence 1
The eminent talents and merits of Hahneman before he wrote
upon homreopathia, are also held forth ~ the public, with a view to
prejudice them in favour of this " new Art of Healing," as we read
on pages 1 and 2 of Dr. Hering's pamphlet: "Nor were his ex-
"traordinary talents, which in riper years rendered him one of the
"greatest medical geniuAes, unknown at that time." We are really
at a loss to express the juet indignation which every one, even but
slightly acquainted with the history ofmedicine,must feel at hearing
such humbuggery! About thirty-four years ago we had the good
fortune to become acquainted with this " greatest medical genius,"
shortly after we had settled at Altona, a Danish city near Ham-
burg. Hahnemann intended to pr~ctise his profession at the lat-
ter place, which, being at that time without a regulated medical
police, offered a large field for his arcana and other quackeries,
Oil account of which he had already been obliged to leave several
places, and to wander about in his native country, even when nearly
forty-five years old. Unable to succeed at Hamburg, he left this
place also, after a short stay. We well remember someconversation
held with him on different professional subjects, especially on John
Brown's system then in vogue, in which, however, he not only
displayed no extraordinary acquirements or talents, but without
mentioningany results of his homreopathic doctrine, the same shal-
lowness of judgment and propensity to mysteries and absurdities,
which have distinguished him through his whole life. Although
at that time he had been known for upwards of twenty-four years
as a good scholar, as the translator of several works from foreign
languages, and also by his discoveries of the adulteration of wines
by lead, the detection of poisoning by arsenic, and his mercurius
solubilis, still he was never, to our knowledge, appointed a professor
in any medical institution, nor was he engaged in an extensive
practice; probably because he was not qualified; for at that time
Germany was by no means as well provided with physician!! as at
present; and now there are still wealthy provinces in Prussia, where
the ratio of the physicians to th& population is as 1 to 7000, and in
several provinces of Bohemia, as 1 to 60,000 inhabitants.• E\;ery
• See Ds. Streintz in MediciniRche Iahrbuecher des K. K.Oesterreichischen Staates
•
Digitized by Google
•
14
German physician, therefore, who has no particular religious or
political object,ons to a stay in his native country, has many more
chances of obtaining a large and pro.litable practice there, than in
any other, provided he can pass the rigor?us state-examinations,
now established by law, independent of the academical gradu-
ation, because many medical faculties did confer the degree of Medi-
ein~e Doctor upon ignomnt individuals. Our author is, therefore,
very much mistaken in saying, on p. 1, " previously to his appear-
" ance as the reformer ofmedicine, he had been known and esteemed
"as one of the most learned, accomplished and meritorious physi-
"cians in Germany." Hahnemann excepted, we cannot recollect a
single instance, for upwards ofthirty years, where a physicianofbut
moderate talents was obliged to travel about .in search of practice j
and it would require but verylittle knowledgeofpractical medicine to
prove, as we shall attempt hereafter, by many passages from Hah-
nemann's works, that he could never have been engaged in exten-
sive practice, although, we believe, many of his false assertions are
made not from ignorance, but from his egotism and his contempt
for tbe opinions of others. .Exclusive of Hahnemann's works upon
his doctrine, his other medical productions are very trivial, and
composed chiefl.y of compilations and translations, not worthy of
a "great genius," who should.certainly have found other subjects
in the vast extent of the natural and medical sciences to engage
his elevated mind ! In regard to the distinguished discoveries in
chemistry, which our author claims for his master, the learned
professors of this science can name no discovery or improvement,
suggested by Hahnemann, except those above mentioned ; two of
which, the ascertaining of the adulteration of wine by lead, and
of poisoning by arsenic, have prond insufficient from the pro-
gress made in analytical chemistry ; and the third, his mercurius
solubilis, (the very name of which is incorrect, because it is soluble
neither in water nor alcohol,) is nearly the same as the mercurius
cinerius Blackii or Edinburgensium, kn.
own long before his time,
and.proved to be a very unsafe preparation; yet, about forty years
Vol. Vll. No.1, 3, 4, for 1832. The ratio ofwell educated, examiued and licensed sur-
geons, who are permitted to administer medical aid in urgent cases, is about 1 to J500.
The governments of Austria and Prussia, convinced of the importance of thorough·
bred physicians, whose edueation embraces also a minute knowledge ofall the philoso-
p~ealsciences, wisely enforce the strictest qualifications for medical practitioners of a
tugker order, and prefer to leave many districts but scantily provided with them, rather
than to entrust the lives of their people to men who, in times of extreme danger, might
prove incompetent.
Digitized by Google
15
ago Hahnemann, with his accustomed charlatanism, asserted not
only that it would destroy the very existence of all syphilitic and_
many other tlfseases, but also, that it would never salivate, which it
does more than any other preparation of mercury. His causti-
cum, which the author of the concise view is pleased to term on
page 23, "a new substance discovered by Hahnemann," has
proved to be a diseovery something like that of his alkali pneum-
notbing but an impure alkali.-lndeed, it must appear strange to
every scientific mao, that in our time a new substance, and espe-
cially a valuable remedy, should have remained so long unnoticed
by all the chemists, (Lnd not mentioned in the large and valuable
works of Thenard, Berzelius, Gmelin, or any other author on che-
mistry. Hahnemann is, on the contrary, so ignorant of the great
progress in chemistry during the last halfcentury, that he appears to
the reader of his works, who is acquainted only with the elements
of this immense science in its present state, more ignorant than an
author of ages long past, who had, at least, a clear conception of
Stahl's phlogiston, Meyer's acidum piogue, or of similar hypothe-
aes and technical ter~s then used. Thus, in explaining his pre-
paration of silicea (see Chronic Disease&, Vol. III. p. 208), he
speaks of a "causticum" {phlogiston probably), which the natrum
acquires while melting with 6int, and which, combined with the
oxygen of the atmosphere, generates carbonic acid, which is evi-
dently nonsense, even according to the old phlogistic theory. He
considers further the precipitated silicea to be soluble in alcohol,
although it is regarded as insoluble by all other chemists. He
also states that sulphur is very soluble in alcohol, while according
to all chemists, it iii but slightly soluble in its gtll:leous state, in the
vapour of water, and is perfectly insoluble in alcohol or liquid
water. With all this he had the unparalleled boldness and impu-
dence to say (Chronic Dis. Vol. I. p. 183), in regard to the present
aiate of chemistry, " The over refined chemistry of our time is yet
" ignorant of the easy solubility of sulphur in alcohol, and also of
11 the solubility of metals and earths in the same, after they have
been potenzised* ,ten thousand or a million times by triturition."
AU this nonsense is, neverthele881 considered by the infatuated
* The term "potenziaed" is correlative to the expre11ion "developed drug-virtue;"
and though not often used in the English langua,te, we are obliged to adopt it to
u:pr888 briefly the power alledged to be developed lrom the atoms of simple drugs by
hoiDcNpa&hic manipulation, and which may be conai4ered similar to the powers of
numben or of o&ber signa used by mathematicians.
Digitized by Google
16
foUowers of Hahnemann, as more wise and true than the resul&s
of the minutest chemical investigations of a Humphrey Davy,
Berzelius, Faraday, Gay-Lussac, &c. This " great geoiusn and
his followers have a natural philosophy, chemistry, a materia
medica, therapia, etc.; nay, even an arithmetic of their own, as
we shall prove hereafter more minutely.
Thia however is no reasonable objection to the intrinsic value
and truths of the homreopathic doctrine, since many highly inter-
esting discoveries in almost every science, and particularly in me-
dicine, have been made by men of incoosiderable talent, whim-
sical conceptions and doubtful character. An extensive practice
of more than half a century often. fails to promote the science ;
while the minute observation of a few cases only may richly en-
large iL Statements, however, unconnected with the objects in
view are uncalled for,andshould not he perverted in order to forestall
public sentimenL This coul'Be has been pursued by Hahnemann
and moet of ~is disciples, a&d his opponents are therefore also
compelled to tear the unmerited laurels from the head of the maD,
before considering the falsehood and inconsistency of his doctrine.
On page 15 of his pamphlet, Dr. Hering says, "Amoog the
"contemporary pro{e.,rs of medicine, of which there were more
"than two hundred, who received salaries in Germany, among all
"thehospitalphysicians,there was not one who was induced to study
"it." Thisassertion, supposing that Dr. Hering knew by inspiration
exactly, the course of reading pursued by all these men, corresponds
but little with his remarks a few lines previous : " The labors of the
"Germans, who constantly and eagerly borrow all that ia ID03l
" valuable in the arts and sciences from the available sources of all
" times and ofevery nation, &c.," nor with his emphatic expressions
of " the depth and solidity of the Germans,'' of" the worth of
" German science," &c., nor even with his statement on page 15.
" The German savans appeared sensible, that if both these propo-
'' sitions were established, &c., then all the learned lumber which
" theoristS had been accumulating for two thousand years must fall
" to the ground." Foreigners, unacquainted with the character and
standing of the German professors, might suppose these assertions,
although contradicting each other, to proceed not only from pro-
hibitory measures of the government, but also from party spirit
and ~be fears entertained by th~ German practitioners, that this
new doctrine might il1jure their practice. This mistake we feel
Digitized by Google
17
it our duty to rectify. No pamphlet or larger work in any lan-
guage would long remain unnoticed or uncriticiaed in Germany,
if it should contain a single important scientific idea or experi-
ment. The German literary institutions publish upwards of sixty
periodicals devoted to natural sciences only, more than one half of
. which ace appropriated to medical essays and review& Most of
these periodicals are issued in protestant states, where men poesess,
even on religious topics, an independence and liberty of diacussion
which, when we redect upon the intimate connection between
church and stat.e still existing there, may justly be considered as
unparalleled in any part of the civilized world. It must there-
fore be evident that -such objects as are but distantly connected
with the prerogatives and interests of monarchical governments,
as for instance all the natural sciences and particularly medicine,
are open to free discussion all over Germany. Most of the pro-
fessors of medicine in the German universities are ardently at-
tached oo the sciences, and are also perfectly independent in their
circumstances.• Hence they are generally quite indifferent about
obtaining private medical praotice, tlnd those particularly who are
engaged as physicians of hospitals and dispenso.ries, feel them-
selves in duty bound to subject every new method of treatment
and every newly recommended drug to the test of experieD.Ce in
the presence of their students. In no mher country therefore
have new medical theories or modes of treatment spread so rapidly
and iiO widely among the greater part of the profession, as in Ger-
many; and in no other country have the oldest professors and
practitioners so publicly avowed their long cherished errors and
mistakes, and have received; upon the slightest appearance of
truth, a new doctrine with greater candor or with more perfect
disinterestedness. This was the case with John Brown's theory,
which was zealously adopted by one of the greatest physicians
of the age, John Peter Frank, when he was nearly seventy years
old; and this was the case in our times also with the no less
erroneous doctrine of Broussais.t But in every instance some ap-
pearance of reason, I:!Ome consistency, is required.
• Their salaries are from one to upwards of ten thoueand dolllln per annum, be-
lidee their tieke118 for their leeturea, aDd their abarea ae members of medical faculties,
• enminatxtra, &c.,which, in some eases, incre- their income to more than twenty
&ho-d dollan per anilum. . . . . . . .
f It ia not our object to leBeen the respect duu to thiS d1atmgu~ahed phys1c1an and
author, though we deny tbe propriety of calling bia doctrine pre-eminemly " ph;r~iolo
gical medicine," and also, that he deserves the name, " father of modern medicme,"
3
Digitized by Gbogle
18
Perhaps, the Germans generally appreciate the merits of their
own countrymen less than those of foreigners, and are rather too
much disposed to listen readily to scientific suggestionsfrom abroad.
This fault is owing to their natural want of petty literary egotism,
which always exists in an inverse ratio with the extent oflearning
and acquirements; and to a want of national pride, arising from
the political condition of that country. We may partly asuibe to
this predilection for foreign suggestions the fact, that the practice
of medicine bas there also rather declined than improved for the
last thirty years, although all the branches of theoretical medicine
and surgery have attained a degree of perfection unsurpassed, if
not unparalleled, iu the literary history of all countries and ages.
But, without the elevated self-respect of her literary men in
scientific pursuits, the immense medical literature of Germany
could not exist; many indispensable branches of the profession, for
instance, medical jurisprudence, political, and especially psychical
medicine, could not have originated in Germany, or attained there a
perfection unheard of in other countries ; nor would discoveries
of their own medical men have been acknowledged for their
intrinsic value, and pursued with perseverance, however little they
have been noticed abroad. Thus animal magnetism, first men-
tioned about three centuries ago by Paracelsus, a German, and
introduced as a remedy about sixty years since, by Mesmer, also
a German, remained almost unnoticed by all other nations,-"he
French excepted, although many professional men in Germany
still apply this great agent as a remedy which, hereafter, will be
10 emphatically bestowed upon him, particularly in the medical works of thia country·
D11pending almost entirely on the evidence ofpost mortem examinations,and neglecting
aU biper philo10phical conceP.tions, he directed his mind only to the palpable results
of his investigations, and eastly found by them what his favorite opinion had sought
for. Like all those who rretend to be reformers in medicine, be cherished his hypo-
thesis more thllll impartiB scrutifty, by rejecting indiscriminately the truths contained
in former medical doctrines. Partially opposed to abstract ideas, called by him " on-
tological abstractione," Broussais, however, introduced in hie "irritation" an abetract ·
conception, more ngue and narrow than many similar ones before him, and which is
al10 discordant with the gross materialism so much advocated by him in his writings,
and ~cularly in his work "On lrritation and Insanity," in a manner which we must
constder unworthy of an elevated mind.-A systematic doctrine of practical medicine,
without regard to physiological principles, could be nothing but rude empiricism ; and
as every meritorious w~rk on practical medicine must necessarily be founded on physi-
ology, wecannot acknowledge that his system has any special claim to the term pbysi-
olo~l system. We know ofno important anatomical or physiological discovery for
which the profeuion is particularly indebted to him, as it is to 10 many of his highly
distinguished cou.ntrymen, ~h?, like B!chat, Ma~endie, and many others, have in
put and present ttmes, so bulhantly enrtehed ud trnproved the healing art.-" Pal-
roam qui meruit, ferat."
Digitized by Google
19
more generally appreciated, when likewise divested of the mystery
which fancy and credulity have so long combined with it.
Why, then, should Hahnemann's works have remaiDed so long
unnoticed in his own country, as Dr. Hering states 1 They were
DOt; they have been frequently reviewed in the German periodi-
cals. But the darkness of the middle ages bad, at least in regard
to the natural sciences and medicine, fortunately been dispersed in
Germany too long for a favorable reception of Hahnemann's works.
His disciples and adherents excepted, most medical authors and
physicians, from the first promulgation of his doctrine down to the
present time, have agreed that no apology could be offered for a
man who boldly endeavours to d~troy all that is rational in
medicine, in order to substitute for it the rudest empiricism ever
practised, and who had made, in his Organon and other works, a
multitude of assertions and suggestions, totally at variance with
common sense and with all the laws of nature, confirmed by the
experience of centuries. We remember a review, published many
years ago, in which the author asserted, that Hahnemann could
have written his Organon only to revenge himself on the whole
profession in return for their contempt of his Arcana.• The fact
is, that we know of no work pretending to be scientific, and pub-
lished within the last or present centJuy,which is more crowded with
contradictioQs, falsehoods and absurdities than Habnemann's Or-
ganon, this treasure of the homreopathists, this "great result of
twenty years investigation," which Dr. Hering compares (see page
9,) with the discoveries of a Galileo, a Harvey, a Columbus! This
is obvious, not only to every well educated and judicious physician
. * We candidly confess we believe it to be so, particularly since he publiehed hie last
work on chronic dieeasea ; tho~ there are aome pathognomonical symptoms ofcra-
ziness observable in him, especially in those passages where be really speaks of Ilia
doctrine as a fan11tic false prophet does of hie new revelation. Thus, he eaya of his
doctrines, on page 7, vol. iii., of his materia medica, " ignea inest iJtie vie et creleatis
origo," "they possess a fiery power, and come from heaven." In a scientific view no
regard should be paid to hie motives ; and hie e1:preaaiona are interesting in a moral
viewonly, as being or not being a part of bia old public impo1itione. " Multum inter-
" eat utrum peecare quia nolit aut nesciat."-Seneca.
Kahnemann was too good a scholar, too well educated in hie profeaaion, his
doctrine originated at too mature an age, when such fancies as his are generally no
longer the product of an exalted imagination, and last not least, his whole life was
too much calcnlated for the promotion of his own interest, to reject entirely the
conjecture of the reviewer mentioned. Should it be true, and should he, feeling his
departUre from this world of vain deception to be near, be conscious of his entering
the world of bril!ht unclouded truth, we would wish that he might secure to himaelfa
better place in the history of medicine, by iuforming posterity of his true opinion, and
of the stepe which he took to prove to what extent the groeaeet enors and illusiona
can still be palmed upon ao ml\ny. We sincerely wish that he may still.live long, but a
confesaion of this kind would be of much more value to the profeaa1on and to man.
kind, than ifeven the tenth part of all his suggestions were true. '
Digitized by Google
.
..
20
who has practised any length of time, but to any one who knows
how to read a book with attention, and can judge impartially.
We hope that the. time is near when that book, at least, will be
accessible to the enlightened part of our professional brethren in
this country; although it would be difficult for any faithful trana-
lator to preserve the vulgar style and tone which characterize this
and all Hahnemann's works. Even those who think well of some
of his tenets and suggestions, will admit the propriety of these
remarks on reading some of our faithful quotations from Hahne-
ruano's books ; to quote all his nonsense, we should be obliged to
translate almost all his works.
Many entertain the erroneous opinion, that the homreopalhic
and other doctrines of Hahnemann affect only practical medicine;
and that tthey merely teach a new method of curing diseases,
which, like other medical methods, may sometimes be righl, and
sometimes wrong. We shall endeavor to prove, that in adopt-
ing this doctrine in its whole extent, the very foundation of t.he
human intellect would be shaken ; and that aU experience in the
whole range of natural philosophy, scarcely excepting that which
admits of a mathematical demonstration, would be much more
unsafe ·now than it was in the darkest ages of superstition.
The debasement of t.he healing art, by Hahnemann and his
followers, is obvious when we consider that they themselves state,
that bomreopathia is not only totally independent of, and incom-
patible with all other medical theories ; but explicitly declare war
against all reason and experience, saying, (see C. V. page 15,) t.hat
" all the learned lumber which theorists have been accumulating
" for two thousand years must fall to the ground." Indeed, if these
propositions be correct, and the medical profession, rejecting all
theoretical expositions, should rely only upon naked facts, this noble
science would soon be carried back far beyond the age of Hippo-
crates, when medicine was .practised only by priests in temples,
and when after a person was cured of a disease, besides the offer-
ing made to the deity, and the presents given to the priests, tablets
were hung upon the wal!s of the temples, containing only the two
requisites of homreopathia ; the symptoms of the disease, and the
simple remedy which proved successful, a time about which an
able medical author, two centuries ago, (Meibom. in Diss. de incu-
bat. § 2,) very correctly says, " tunc non sanabat medicina, sed
" quidquid videbatur sanasse erat medicina," '' at that time medi·
Digitized by Google
21
"cine did not cure, but whatever appeared to have cured was con-
.: sidered to be a remedy."
Although our author, in accordance with Hahnemann in some
passages ofhis works pretends, that great knowledge is requisite
fi,r the homreopathic practice, we appeal to any one whose judg-
ment ie sound and not prejudiced by party spirit or interest, wh~
ther be can conceive that any science whatever is indispensable Gl'
particularly useful t.O the homreopathic practitiooer, sioce a minute
knowledge ofthe symptoms ofdiseases,and ofthe properties ofdrugs
are amply sufficient to eonstitute a bomooope.thic Doctor, -.nd ao
faculty of the mind is required except a good memory aided only
by penect external senses. The faithful homreopathist may also
pussess all the great advantages of an accomplished education, if
this is compatible with homc:eopllthia, may be a gref\1. chemist,
anatomist, botanist, &c., in shorl, may be a true polyhistor ; but.
all his knowledge is quite useless in respect to his vocati~n. To
ao. a.llopathist, a name applied by Hahnemano to aU physicians
who are not in favor of his doctrine-even the koowlec\ge of a
common trade* would be more useful for his practice, than a fami-
liarity with anatomy,t physiology, chemistryt&c. istoao homreo-
• It ie often hiJrhly important ~r the rational phyeieian, relying more on the caueea
of the diee1111es than upon their delusive symptoms, to know to what particular injury
an iadividual is exposed by his trad~. The profession is much in need of a work ai-
milar to that ofRamazzini," de Morbis Opificum," 1718, which aball detail those par-
ticulars, not only in respect to the new trades brought into existence during the last
eentury, but also to the changes produced by machinery, &c. in the old trades.
t It would appearalmost incredible that in the nineteenth century there should be
Christian countnea where the study of anatomy is restrained by lawa, more worthy of
the superstition ef the middle ages than of oar times, while we see even the Turkish
Sultan and the Pacha of Egypt encourage ita study, however much it is opposed to the
tenets of the Koraa. There are some eminent men who can overcom. .tJoee ruUic-
tions by their diligent st11dy andextraordinary talents ; but the profession at large can
never attain the requisite ~rfection without the moat liberal provision• for this
acience, which muat be constdered u the key-atone ofallliHidicine and surgery. The
opposition of the public to _post mortem examinations in private practice,, particularly
in rare cases, where exammations may be useful for the treatment of similar cases,
tends to retard the advance of acience, and is also unworthy of the present age. The-
corpsa should juatly be considered as a mere substance, doomed to decay, and as th&
property of the human society at large, and not as a person. " Curatio funeria, conditto.
sepultune, pompa exequiarum, magis aunt vivorum solatia, quam aubsidia mortuOIIUII,..
(Augustinus de Civ. c. 12.) It may here also be not improper to allude to the prevalellt
prejudice, dJat the healing art rests mostly on ita practical branches, and tha'- if suf-
6aient provisions are made for theae, the _Profession and the public will be more bene-
fited than by promoting its theoreticalactencea. It.is a prejudice by which the most
talented youiiJ studenta of medicine lose the beat opportUBity of really attaining a
high standing tn their profession, and are forced to remain, for ever,common routiniers.
A country which provides in the best manner for the study of anatomy, pb.J!siology,
chemistry, and for the other branches of theoretical medicine, without the least pro-
visions for observing the treatment of patients, would soon possess ten times as many
distinguished physicians and respected medical authors, than another country which
provicfea amply for the premotion of practical instruction in hO&pital~ and abuabouses,
Digitized by Google
22
patbist, although Hahnemann in his Organon (see p.p.184 andj185,
4th edit.) urges particularly a due regard to the pursuit of the pa-
tient; more however with a view to promote the interest ofthe phy-
sician by making him intimately acquainted with family secrets,
than with the intent of influencing a treatment, which, according
to his doctrine of the origin and treatment of all chronic diseases,
must always depend upon the removal of one and the same cause.
But we wish seriously, that any homreopathist would explain to
us of what use anatomy is to him, since, if he confines himself to
medical practice, he can observe all the imaginable symptoms of
the diseased state in the sense of his doctrine, without even the
first rudiments of that science 1 Physiology, a science of which
Hahnemann himself could never have bad any sound conception,
is so much crowded with hypotheses, conjectures, and " learned
lumber," that it must appear to a homreopathist very fanciful and
useless. Chemistry, in the eyes of the greatgenius, so" over-refined
" in our age," and so defective, that the properties of the most com-
mon substances, the solubility of flint and sulphur in water for
instance, or their transmutation into infinite spirits by their re-
moval " from place to place in a fluid state," remained hitherto
unknown to all the chemists of both hemispheres; mineralogy,
botany, &c. are still more unnecessary to him, because others may
collect the plants and simples, he himself being only obliged to
dilute and rub them down," secundum artis magicre leges," and he
must indeed do so ifbe attends but a few patients daily, as so many
hours are req!Jired to learn all the symptoms and all the minutire
of the patient's whole life, and as (seep. 25 C. V.) "the advan-
tages of short visits and quickly writing a recipe," " cannot be
" reconciled with homreopathia." Although the author of the con-
cise view tells us (page 21) that his master recognises the anato-
mical and physiological sciences as by all means indispensable,
but pays but little regard to the theory. This may easily be proved by tbe low standing
of the original medical literature ofsuch countries, and by their necessary dependance
on foreign literature. It may be asserted with the greatest propriety, that no science
requires more the minutest study of ito theoretical branches than medicine, since
none admits of a greater variety ofindividual cases, the proper treatment of which
depends mostly on general principles ; for otherwise the old Intelligent norse would
be the best physician, and the oldest herb-collector the greatest botanist. Prac-
tical acq11irements are easily and quickly obtained in all scientific pursuits, where
sound principles previously derived from a close study of their theory, are combined
with natural talent, but not the reverse. Thus a man, thoroughly acquainted with
geometry, trigonometry, and the other branches of pure mathematics, will learn in a
few weeks, by himselfor by a practical teacher, to be a good surveyor, whilst a merely
practical man, without such acquirements, will never become eminent in his vocation,
and will never be able to compete with the other in extraordinary cases.
Digitized by Google
.
23
and admits the general study of the prevailing systems of medi-
cine, on account of the historical knowledge and controvers-ieawith
other physicians, still we do not see the least advantage which
either the homreopatbist or his patients could derive from such
" learned lumber." It is even probable that in regard to contro-
versies with allopathists, if such '' murderers" should continue to
exist, contrary to the proph~ies and hopes of the homreopathists1
the latter will be as unfortunate as their great master, who, notsuc-
ceeding in his controversies, at last concluded that he alone knew
better in what the healing art consists, than all the professional
·men from Hip~X~Crates down to bis age, and that it never was, and
never will be, necessary to be acquainted with any thing but the
symptoms of natur8.l diseases, and of those artificially produced in
healthy persons by drugs, to perform the greatest,safest and most du-
rable cures. (C. V. page2&.) Itis evident how easily this knowledge
can be acquired by any body who, perhaps unfitted for any other
occupation, finds it convenient to make his living in this very
commodious and pleasant manner. What an enviable situation
such a worthy priest of lEsculapius has, in comparison with the
industrious sturdy m~hanic who, after serving an apprenticeship
of four or five years, must expose his life and health all day to earn
what the former can obtain in an hour without the least bodily or
mental exertion ! No wonder that this " new art of healing" now
attracts those who, like many young people in our times. wish to
reap without incurring the trouble and pains of ploughing and
sowing, and that many are anxious to adopt this marvellous
doctrine, even in countries where the degree of M. D. and the pri-
vilege of guarding the life and health ofmankind; are conferred in
less than a third ofthe time demanded by a cobbler for an apprentice
of his trade. We could name instances where men without the
least knowledge of medicine have been taught and declared qua-
lift~ for practice, by a German homreopathist in this country, in
lesslhan three months; and it is well known to many professional
men here, that an American homceopathist, who ~as also usurped
this privilege, was prevented only by the conflicting interests of
olhers from continuingto confer the degree of M.D. on those, whom
he alone considered as worthy to practise according to the rules
of this new " Art of Healing." The study of the history of me-
"dicine also recommended by Hahnemann, would rather appear to
lead a man astray from the paths of homreopathia and injure
Digitized by Google
24
himself and his patients ; because, it would impair his allegiance
co the infallible doctrines of Hahnemann, who, in many pusages
of bill works, explicitly forbids any reasoning on homc:eopathia,
and demands of his disciples and followers more implicit faith\
" without doubting, reasoning, interpreting or phil01:10pbizing
" upon them" (see these expressions in Archiv fuer Homreopatische
Heilkunde, Vol. IX. No.3, and in Chron. Krankheiten,Vol.l.p.213),
than any orthodox or other religious creed requires ofits confessors.
Moreover all records in the history of medicine of the cure of dis-
eases, in a manner different from his, are, aecording to Hahne-
mann, entirely false, and even one single speedy and permanent
cure among hundreds. of patients by the physicians of all ages,
has been performed only by mere good fortune. (See Organon,
p. p. 95 and 96.) The true history of the healing art begins with
him-" qui se unus aapientem profiteri sit ausus (Cic. de fin.),
and has, iu his own time, and by the exertions of himself and his
adherents, attained its highest degree of perfection ; and all that
appears to be left to poeterity, is to observe a few JDQi-e symp&oms
and to institute a few more trials with drugs!* It appears obvious
that, if according to this new doctrine, the healing art can be so
easily acquired by any body who can read, the public will find it
quite superfluous to apply to the privileged class of physicians, as
soon as the bomreopathic text-books, the symptom-and-drug-
sickDeliS-dictionaries are accessible to them. All efforts of the
homreopathiscs, who now appear to act in a body for the purpo8e
of obtaining exclusively medical practice, and send m~ionaries
to all quarters of the world to preach the new medical gospel in
the unrivalled manner of the author of" A Concise View," will
be unable to prevent this; particularly if we consider the confi-
dence required of the patients, to submit to the minute and often
indelicate cros8-examination of a homreopathist (see Organon, p. p.
183 and 184), in order to ascertain where a small wart or a pimple
" As a little specimen ofthe extraordinary modesty and meeknesa of Habnetnaon,
" who bad himself never assumed an offensive attitude," as Dr. Hering asserts, we
quote here the following remarkable words of Hahnemann in the preface to his Or-
ganon: "It must be admitted that the true art of healing liegins w1th me."
In order also to prove that our opinion of the requisites of a homreovathic physician
ia not erroneous, we quote here Habnemaoo's own worda on this subject; after ex·
plaining the mode of rocognizing a disease, he says in his Organon, p. 76 : " This
examination of an individual case, ofwhich I have giYen only a general sketch, and of
wlaicb the examiner retains only what ia applicable to the case before him, demands
nothing but freedom frclm prejudices, perfect senses, a\tention in observing, and fidelity
in deacribing the di.eaee."
Digitized by Google
25
inay be located, &c., (See c. v. p. 22,) and which, however, is useless
in most cases, since Hahnemann himself commands his followers
' not to rely upon the statements elicited by those severe examina-
tions, if the result contradicts his latest axioma laid down in his
r>'\Cvellous work on chronic diseases-viz. that all such patients
mus ·
. be considered as itchy (see Organon, from p. 177 to 188,
an'! in different places of the Treatise on Chr. Dis.) If we add
to this, that many external diseases, generally considered as ob-
jects ofsurgical treatment, such as aneurism, necrosis, fistula ani
and others (see Organon, p. 12), nay! even hernia inguinalis no
longenequire any surgical aid (see Chron. Dis. Vol. I. p. 188), the
whole profession may soon be dispensed with.-lt would really
almost appear that Providence, having ~n her eternal wisdom and
mercy iofiicted mortality and painful diseases upon the human
race, had now blessed mankind with a Hahnemann, who so rea-
dily teaches his infallible healing art to the most stupid as well as
to the wisest of men ! Henceforth, the well educated physicians,
these murderers of their fellow-men, with all, their " learned
"lumber,aocumulatedduring two thousand years,"are unnecessary;
the human intellect and imagination, and the talents of thou-
eands, hitherte squandered for nothing but professional mischief
and injury, may be exercised for other and more worthy purposes.;
ia medi~ioe they have been and will be of no value whatever !
Who would be so stubborn, so heartless and abject, as not to hail
such as a golden age, an age in which mankind has obtained
blessings of more value than half of the long desired millenium,
when,
" The dumb shall sing, the lame his crotch forego,
And leap exulting like the bounding roe."-Pope.
But alas! such prophecies, like those of the author of the Concise
View, (seec.v. pages 28and 29,) and his brethren, are utterly whim-
sical and false. Samuel Hahnemann, as we shall endeavor to prove
hereafter, with all his fanciful productions and atoms of drugs, has
not yet found one atom of the philosopher's stone. Some informa-
tion and useful suggestions may be selected from the immense
rubbish of his works1 and m~y, if rightly appreciated, contribute to
pave the way for a new and better era of practical medicine,
which is so very much needed ; but as homreopathia stands at
present, we can only consider it compounded of the grossest errors
4
•
Digitized by Google
26
and falsehoods ever palmed upon the public, either by a morbid
imagination and ignorance, or by intentional imposition.
From these general characteristics of Hahnemann and his
works, it may easily be seen, why this new prophet and bisdoctrine
remained so long unnoticed in his native country, and are still
either disregarded or despised by her professors and physicians of
repute. With the exception of Dr. Kopp, of Hanau, of whom we
shall say a few words hereafter, not one distinguished professor,
author or practitioner in Germany has, to our knowledge, hitherto
declared in favor of homreopathia. With the exception of Hahne-
mann's disciples and adherents, who were not known in medical
literature before they followed this doctrine, Dr. Hering, with his
brother homreopathists cannot name a single one. The remarks
on page 17, of his Concise View: "but day by day new adherents
" were acquired, and mostly among the old practitioners, a pheno-
''menon, in new systems, entirely unheard of," is, therefore, a gross
error. His statements, however, on the same page, in regard to
several individuals of distinguished rank and reputation, not phy-
sicians, are correct. In many countries, we find some who admire
and follow Hahnemann's doctrines, until they have paid by the
loss of their own health or life, or by that of their relatives and
friends, for trusting in homreopathic treatment, or for believing, that
the healing art is now ·rendered easily accessible to every one,
merely by studying homreopathic text-books for a few months;
since they think, that excepting a minute knowledge of homreo-
pathic disease-symptoms, and their corresponding drug-symp-
toms, all professional acquirements are, altogether, mere trash. We
know that in every age and country, and individuals_in every class
of society have been eager to play the physician, whenever they
could, although they have formerly been aware of the long and
careful study usually required by the profession ; it is therefore not
strange, that by the immense facilities offered by homreopathia to
its votaries, many military men, merchants, tradesmen, and some-
times also a poet have raised their voices for this new doctrine, in
Germany;" and, that it now niay be said, with more propriety :
" Fingu"t se medicos omnes, idiots, sacerdos,
"Jod8lus, monachos, histrio, rasor, anus."
* Moat of our readers may find our description of the briUianL state of literature in
Germany, quite in contradiction with uur statement in regard to even the slightsuccess
of Haboemann's works, and the more so, if we acknowledge that some well educated
•
•
Digitized by Google
27
Y9ung physicians, attracted either by the novelty of this medical
treatment, or too ignorant to succeed in the practice of rational
medicine, have embraced homreopathia; some few, also, who are
well educated, adopt it as a fashionable money-making business,
and follow the practical, but dishonest maxim, " Mundus vult
decipi, ergo decipiatur."
The admiration of homreopathia among the classes just named,
attracted the attention of the two greatest German governments,
Prussia and Austria, and afterwards also of Russia.
The Prussian government, a few years since, ordered a public
trial of homceopathia to be made in the largest hospital of Berlin,
the Charite, by one of Hahnemnnn's disciples, particularly recom-
mended by him for that purpose. Although of the many hundred
patients in that hospita~ he selected twenty-five cases, which he
considered most suitable for his experiments not one was cured.
As Habnemann afterwards asserted that the incompetency of his
disciple must have been the only cause of failure, a second pupil
was dispatched by him to Berlin ; the same misfortune attendin~
his practice also, he was dismissed.
The experiments instituted by the Austrian government in a
large hospital at Vienna, were attended with the same results.
Dr. Herrmann, of Saxony, one'of the oldest disciples of Hahne-
mann, and probably the same, whose name is quoted so frequently
yoong phy•icians and other geotlemen in Germany, have zealously adopted and
advocated this doctrine. But, amdng the many other peculiarities, which the native
country of Kepler, Leibnitz, Kant, &.c., presents to the observing foreigner, he will
be surprised at seeing occasionally, productions totally unworthy of the elevated
standing of her literature which still abounds, as it'has for centuries, in master works in
all arts and sciences; similar to the ovenich soil, which in producing its gigantic syca-
mores, luxuriantly favora likewise the growth of many common weeds. Those
foreigners who, ignorant of the German .language, seldom become acquainted with
distinguished German savans, and with the philosophical spirit which pervades the
weD educated classes of German society, and those who merely travel through that
country, will with equal propriety consider it to be, in several respects, still many
centuries behind the present age, whilst in others it has advanced many centuries
before most other countries. Those, only, who have for a long time minutely ex-
amined the state of literature and arts in Germany, will be convinced that it may justly
be considered in that respect as the modern Greece, though the general educatton of
the people has not advanced in proportion 19 its advancement in other countries ;
notwithstanding the most praiseworthy exertions of the different governments, and
particularly of Prussia, to improve it. The opinion of Americana of the medical
profession in Germany, when formed from the German barbers and druggists, who on
coming to this country bonow or assume the title of M. D., would be as erroneous, as
woold be that of the Germans, if overlooking the distinguished merits of Physick,
Barton, Mott, Hosack, Francis, Warren, and others, they should judge of the Ameri-
can medical profession from the shoemakerd and schoolmasters, who hue turned
hollla!opathisls, or from the clerka and farmers, who after attending medical lectures
for eight months have been awarded with a medical diploma.
Digitized by Google
28
n the experiments described in Hahnemann's materia medica, was
expressly sent for by the Russian government, to try the new
method in a military hospital ; being completely unsucceesful, he
was dismissed, and the homreopathic practice was entirely pro-
hibited in all the Russian military hospitals. For the sake of
experiment an equal number of patients, and so far as eould be
ascertained by minute examination, quite similar to those under
the care of Dr. Herrmann, were at the same time publicly treated
by Dr. Giggler, surgeon-general of the Russian army, methodo
expectativa,,or by mere diet, without administering any medicine,
and the result was similar to that obtained by the homreopatbic
treatment of Dr. Herrmann, (see Hecker's Annalen der ges.
Heilk. December, 1832.)
The author of the pamphlet before us says, also, on page 17,
"It was carried to Naples, and in that kingdom obtained steadfast
" adherents." Whilst reading this, we fully expected to find this
slatement incorrect; we thought that Italy, the cradle of all modem
civilizationand the native countryofa Baglivi,aMorgagni, a Scarpa,
&c., where the medical profession holds still as high a rank as in
any other land, could not disgrace herself by the adoption of such
a superstitious and rude empiricism as homreopathia presented to
her. We were not mistaken ; for the statement of Dr. Hering has
been contradicted in toto, by a long and very interesting letter,
directed to Dr. Hufeland, at Berlin, and lately published in the
Heidelberger Annalen, (vol. viii., No. 3, for 1832.) The dis-
tinguished editors of that journal, Professors Chelius, Naegele, and
Pucbelt, of Heidelberg, and Professor Har1ess, of the University of
Bonn, assert, that the writer of that anonymous letter, is not only
an accomplished physician, but an author of the highest standing
in the profession, and ofstrictly veracious and honorable character.
It results from this letter, that in Naples, Rome, and other Italian
cities, no physician can now express himself in favor of homreopa-
unless it. be at ·the risk of his reputation, in consequence of the
number of failures, and even de.."tths, which have attended the
practice of one of Hahnemann's disciples, and of some enthusiastic
young Italian physicians. The homreopathist who introduced
this prnctice at Naples, although an ignorant Bohemian barber,
enjoyed the splendid patronage of the commanding Austrian
general, to whom he was particularly recommended by Hahne-
. mann. The public as well as some talented young physicians,
Digitized by Google
29
who embraced homreopathia with so much zeal, awoke from their
illusive credulity, but not until the general, with many other per-
B~mages of distinguished rank, had died, or were injured by this
all-curing new healing art. We have not yet seen the reports in
I faVOr Of h0m000pathia from " the sanguinary gold COftSt, and from
Egypt, the land of monsters," as stated by Dr. Hering, on page IS;
but we are willing to admit them as correct.-" Tot Galata, tot
•'Pontus eat, tot Lydia oummis!"-Io countries where medicine is
still in its infancy, and where medical praet.ice is considered as a
common trade, rather than as a scientific art, and where powerful
prescriptions are administered with rash ignorance, homc:eopathia
will best' satisfy the credulity of the uneducated, nod must be
regarded as a bl~ing, on account ofits decided negativeusefulnees.
We would, therefore, coftsider it almost a crime to' weaken the con-
fidence of the people in the homreopathic treatment, in countries
where the study of rationalmedicine is much neglected, and where
the health and lives of the public are endangered by the abeence
of a protective medical police ; but it is morally certain, that any
thing is too dear, if purchased at the expense of truth or at the
risk of destroying the foundation of all rational sciences ; and
nothing is more injurious to the physical as well as the moral hap-
piness of men than superstition. Hence Bacon says, and corred.ly,
that even atheism is far less injurious than superstition: " Atheis-
"mus non prorsus coovellit dictamina sensus, non philosophiam,
"affectus naturales, leges, bome famre desiderium ; qure omnia,
"licet religio absesset, morali cuidam virtuti externre cooducere
"possunt: ac superstitio hrec omnia dejicit, et tyrannidem absolutam
"in animis execret." (See his Treatise de Superstitione.)
With regard to " the real triumph" of this new method of treat-
ing "the most violent and malignant forms of the Asiatic cholera,"
of which Dr. Hering says, on page 27: "however varied were its
c, forms in the different countries, and in different individua.;, and
"as multiform and strange and malignant as it was, they cured as
"well in Russia as in Hungary, in Vienna and Prague as well as in
" Berlin,in Philadelphia as well as in Germany, with equal success.
"The most recent statements received from all quarters have bril-
"liantly established this;" our accounts, however, vary much from
those ofour veraciolls author, and, moreover, unfortunately for him
and his cause, they are even contradicted, by some of his homc:oo-
patbic brethren, like many other accounts quoted by him. In the
Digitized by Google
30
very periodical which he values so highly on page 18, and which
may beconsidered as the trumpet of the homreopathic propaganda,
viz. in the Archiv fuer H0'11U130p0Jhische Heil!.:unde, Vol. XII.
No. 1, &c., many of Habnemann's disciples, and particularly Dr.
Schroeter, at Lemberg, in Poland, and several homceopathic
practitioners, at Berlin, have declared, that the treatment of Asiatic
cholera, with camphor, as well as Habnemann's otber·suggestions,
had proved uuerly abortive in practice. Dr. Tbummel, one of
the ward physicians of Berlin, during the prevalence of Asiatic
cholera in that city, bas reported, that of the many cholera pa·
tients who were treated by homreopathists in his ward, only one
recovered, (see Berlin Med. Zeitung: 1832.)-It is really not a
little surprising, that our author, with his brother homceopathists
of this country, so confident ofthe infallibility oftheir treatment,
and of the pontive and curative power of camphor in Asiatic cho-
lera, did not follow the praiseworthy example of the noble and
highminded French physicians, Drs. Bailly, Pariset and others,
who, for the sake of philanthropy and professional investigation,
went to places affected with the yellow fever and the otiental
plague, to ascertain the character and treatment of these fatal
diseases, without any specific or protective " real triumph" in their
pockets. The American bomreopathists however, remained quietly
in their eastern residences, without hastening, from motives of
philanthropyand professional duty, or from reallypraiseworthy zeal
for the propagation of their infallible doctrine, to the u_nfortunate
countrielil of the west, where thousands fell victims to thi~ scourge;
al~bough certainly none of the ben~volent citizens of the other
states, wDuld have denied them a liberal support if called upon,
in order to save the lives of their fellow citizens. This would
have been the proper occasion for them to prove their disinterested
humanity, and their implicit confidence in the pledge of their
great medical genius, Samuel Hahnemann, who, in his first
treatise on Asiatic cholera, prophesied, in the year 1831, " I hope
"that no body will henceforth die, to whom this treatment (with
" camphor) shall be applied early."-We are sorry to mention,
that, on the contrary, we know of instances, where homreopathic
physicians, attacked by cholerophobia, left their places of resi-
dence upon the approach of this dreadful epidemic, and did not re-
turn, until they could earn their dollars again, without exposing
their valuable lives and health ; which certainly proves anything
Digitized by <boogle
31
but confidence in the infallible .protection and cure, promised by
their " illustrious" masler, provided they have to stake any thing
more than the paltry _pains of a refined charlatanism.-
" The better pan of valoUJ ie, diiCretion."-SW..
As an impartial critic we must however state that, according
to the latest accounts contained in German newspapers, some of ·
the governments there, have again noticed homreopathia, by or-
dering new trials of its treatment to be instituted. From this we
may infer, that there is no necessity for the particular protection
clainwd by Dr. Hering from the American people·in behalfof ho-
mreopathia, as for a distinguished demagogue who, forced to leave
his native country in distress, takes refuge in this free and happ)l
land. We, at least, have not beard any thing like the extremely
ridiculous story (on page 29, c. v.} that the "kings and princes
" of Europe, &c. impede t~ progress of the new art by prooesses,
"penalties and bayonets, their other and more important cares
"notwithstanding." On the contrary, as far as we know, " the
"old philosopher" reposes quietly upon his laurels in his high pon-
tifical see at Coethen, undisturbed by any military force. ·
We have already alludedto'the causes which made many laymen
of rank in Germany partial for homreopathia. The last accounts
from tbeBce (contained in the Allgemeine Zeitung) state, that
the chamber of deputies of Baden have resolved, almost unani-
mously, to have a special chair of homreopathia in the Heidelberg
university; the ~me we are told was resolved by the Bavarian
government for the university of Munich. We may justly sup-
pose, that these respectable authorities have never minutely con-
sidered the bearings of homreopathia, otherwise it would be ex-
ceedingly foolish to consider the whole Of any doctrine useful,
while its single parts consist of the most palpable nonsense. · " An
" quidquam stultitius, quam quod singul011 contemnas, eos aliquid
" putare esse universos1" (Cic. Tusc.) Nevertheless these revolu·
lutions prove clearly, that this doctrine is there considered quite
different from all rational medicine, since, if it were only a uew
mode of the latter for curing diseases, it would be no more required
to establish a particular professorship for this, than it bas been
hitherto necessary to appoint a professor exclusively for the systems
of Brown, Broussais, &c. or for any other new and different me-
dical theory; these having always been left to thejudicious consi-
deration of the professors of practical medicine, or of medical his-
o;9.t.zed by Google
32
tory and literature. We are told also by men upon whose veracity
we can rely, that new uials of hommopathia are contemplated in
some other capitals of Germany, in consequence of the wishes
expressed by many distinguished individuals in the armies and in
official stations, who ~ave said they were cured by homreopa-
thist.H, after they had been. long and uosuooessfully ueated. by
ether physicians; perhaps also, because Dr. Kopp, known as a
learned and experienced practitioner and author on legal and
praetical medicine, has seemingly joined the hommopathic ranks.
The best medical periodicals, however, which have reached us,
scarcely allude to the existence of homreopathia.; whenever they
mention it, it is only to ridicule its frequent failures and the sin-
gular steps taken by its adherents.
Whoever deliberates on the great advantages. whidl European
~ernments might easily derive, directly or indirectly, from this
new doc:trine, wrn:wve them great credit for not embracing hoJD<BO-
patbia. more anxiously, and not enforcing it long sinee, simplyon ac-
count -of their humanity and predilection for the promotion ()f truly
scientific edueat.ion. Willing to gratify the public voice, whenever
expressing itself in favor of objects, unconnected with politics, ho-
rnreopathia would have oftered to them the best means to check
the progress of the human intellect, also in regard to their political
objects in view. For what oould be better ealrula.ted .to counteract
and to eradicate all reasonable or extravagant excitements for un-
restricted religious and political liberty, than credulity and super-
stition, particularly in regard ·k) objects of such general and g.rea.t
importance as health and ·life 1 People who believe, that the noble
exertions of the moet talented and learned men of all ages to uo.-
. veil and discover the laws of nature, and to promote truth, have
led only to errors and mistakes in the first principles of all
sciences, and who are persuaded that, besides the great wenders of
nature which the human intellect endeavours to divest of its mi-
raculous features, there exist miracles at the disposal of men, will
be unquestionably more disposed to admit also the divine rights
bestowed by birth or by a sacred unction. Nations, infatuated
by an implicit belief in the miracles.of magic and witchcraft, will
nnquestionably submit more quietly to their fate, however ep-
pressive it may really or apparently be, than strive to attain that,
which the history of all ages proves to them either more or less
abortive, or at least to be attainable only by those terriik dangers
Digitized by Google
33
which have always attended religious and political revolutions.
The great advantages which the treasury and other important
branches of the government would derive from homrepathia, if it
should be found as certain and beneficial as Hahnemann and his
adherents assert, would prove still more, that the European gov·
ernments ought to have forced it long since upon their people,
even in opposition to the selfiE'h obstinacy and low interest of the
dissenting allopathic physicians and apothecaries, who, after all,
constitute but a small part of the whole population. Hundreds of
millions of dollars would be saved, which have hitherto been
squandered by the learned fancy or the ignorant prejudices of the
perniciolliJ class of allopathic physicians, for immense quantities of
costly drugs; the great number of professors, appointed at heavy
expenses, for so much "learned lumber" would no longer be of
any use, as ~very one could attend to his own health by the aid of
his homreopathic guide and a few shillings' worth of drugs.
In time ofwar, also, homreopathia would offer immense advan-
tages, not only by the facility with which large armies might be
victualled by the developed virtues of liquid and solid nourish-
ment ; but also by preserving the lives of the soldiers not slain .in
battle, who would otherwise be sacrificed by the murderous treat-
ment of allopathic physicians, (see 0. V. p. 28.) The whole. class
of military physicians might be dismissed, and a few ignorant
homreopathic surgeons only would be required, especially if they
were assisted by a symptom-secretary, and a duly initiated drug-
triturator ; they might then also officiate as apothecaries, and thus
become medico-chirurgical fac-totums for a large army, of which
the whole drug store and laboratory might be contained in a small
chest, measuring only a cubic foot, and be easily carried, together
with the whole surgical apparatus, by a donkey.-"Misce stultitiam
consiliis brevem." (Hor.)-With such valuable advantages to the
European governments, to the public at large, to the wealthy and
the poor ; it is indeed astenishing that kings and princes have
been hitherto ·so short sighted, as not to promote the progress of
bomreopathia! The humane and patriotic apprehensions for our
common native country, expressed by Dr. Hering, on page 29,
will, however, be appeased, at least for a short tim~ ; for even the
opposition of the intelligent will there also promote its extension,
as this has always been found to be the most efficient mode of
111aking uneducated people still more partial for objects of credulity
5
Digitized by GoogIe
34
and supel'Btition, until and experience bas enlightened their dim-
sighted eyes. The celebrated author on demonology and witch-
craft says very correctly, "It has always been remarked that those
"morbid affections of mind which depend on imagination, are sure
''to become more common, in proportion as public attention is
"fastened on stories connected with their display." We may ration-
ally expect, that in Germany particularly, many more weak-minded
physicians will be seriously attacked by this mental influenza,
though not for a long time, as the benefits of profound erudition,
and especially of philosophical studies, will soon radically cure this
spiritual epidemic. "If Germany furnishes the bane, it gives us
"the antidote too," (c. v. page 6.) We merely hope and wish in
this case, not in a homc:eopatbic dose !
Our able author of the "Concise "View," complains all!o on
page 16, of "the united intrigues of the apothecaries at Leipzig;''
(the literary emporium of the whole world, which for upwards of
four centuries has possessed a university, distinguished by its pro-
fessors in all sciences, and particularly in medicine,) and of "the
."laws which prohibit the dispensing of medicines by physicians,
"under a heavy penalty, and permit it only to the pri-qileged
"apothecaries;" and further, that these laws "were brought to
"bear against him.-Hahnemann, who always gave the simple
" medicine, in his entirely novel preparations, in which an extra-
,, ordinary care and accuracy were indispensable, could not pos-
., sibly commit this labor, upon which the certainty of the result
',and the welfare of his patient depended, to the apothecaries; who
,, not at all familiar in such unheardof niceties, regarded the whole
It business as absurd, and whose pecuniary interests had to suffer
"thereby, quite as much as the pecuniary interests of the patients
" were benefitted."-We cannot conceive why Dr. Hering, provided
he has not yet forgotten the necessity of apothecaries for allopathic
practice, and provided he admits in justice, that unless "the great
truth" has been generally adopted, tbe regulations suggested by
him on page 4, "to render their entire profession supertluous," could
not be anticipated,-we say, wecannot conceive why he, himself a
German, objects to the old regulations above quoted. Among the
many wise laws of the Germa!l governments, which partly com-
pensate fer the restrictions of religious and political liberty, we
must consider those as most beneficial, which are passed for the
liberal promotion of the sciences and arts, and more particularly
D1g1tized by Google
35
•
...
for the protection of the liftS and.health of their people by a strict
medical police.. It is difficult to explain, why republican govern-
ments of the present age, are so anxious to protect by law a1l other
property of their citizens, while they leave almost unprotected the
most valuable and irreparable kind of property, life and health.
This.cannot, of course, be an inevitable consequence of reasonably
unrestricted liberty itself, as the most trifling violation of laws and
privileges, are often more severely punished there, than in monarchi-
cal governments. We tree, for instance, that in such a republican
country, a farmer runs the risk of having his entire market stock
of butter confiscated, if half an .ounce or less is wanting to the
pound, perhaps by earelessnees only; although every citizen would
prefer to- be wronged in this and in similar trifles, which moreover
he may easily prevent, rather than risk the lives of his family by
the ignorance and carelessness of an uneducated physician or
druggist. In some European countries, and especially in Germany,
the laws on these points are very strict, and are beneficial in pro-
tecting the health of the public: it. is therefore particularly strange,
that our author, as a German ofprofessional education, should find
fault with such salutary regulations. We are sorry to observe in
this a new proof, that even·men of talent, and perhaps unobjection-
able moral principles, when in6uenced by fixed ideas and party
spirit, loose sight of every thing, even of that which must injure
their own reputation, bringing upon themselves the odium of their
indisGreet and unjust degradation of a highly respectable class of
their countrymen. A publica accusat_
ion from any other pel'80n, that
the labor of composing simple medicines could not possibly be com-
mitted to German apothecaries, becausethey are not at allfamiliar
tDith. such unheard tf niceties, and because it 'tDOUltl interfere
tDith their pecuniary interests, should appear ridiculous and puerile
even to a German hom<Bopathist, as he must know, that before
an apothecary in Germany is examined as an assistant, or has a
lieence granted to him, he- must exhibit proofs of a classical edu-
cation, and of a course of study for at least five years; that he
further has to bind himself by an oath, and under heavy pemdties,
to prepare,.ith the utmost exactitude and nicety the prescriptions
of every regular physician, unless it appears to him·evident, that
the dose prescribed is dangerously large, and might be a written
error of the physician, of whom he is then bound to inquire about
it; a case which could never happen to homreopathists who pre..
Digitized by Google
36
scribe such infinitely amall doses.* This outrageous abuse of aa
• I
entire clu; of respectable men by Dr. Hering, is paralleled only by
•"In eom~> of the Germaa States, for inatance, in Heasen-Caaael, the government is
110 excessively anxious to trust the apothecary busineaa to such men only, as are con-
stantly io the practice ofit, that nen those who have fulfilled all the rl'quisites of the
law, but hav11 remained idle, or have embarked in another occupation for two yeara
only, must, in order to obtain a second licence for the practice of pharmacy, subject
themaeJyea again to a new and rigorous examination, in which tome chemical pre-
parations are required to be made. The importance of the subject demands a few
farther remarks. If we except a few common medicines, no physician can rely upoa
the genuineness of drugs in thia country, at least to our knowledge and experieuce;
though there are some very distinguished chemists and pharmacopoliats among the
immenae number of, eo called, apothecaries. The principal reason is, that in moat of
the States uy body, however ignorant, can open a drug-store, and compete with the
beat educated and faithful apothecary; the IaUer, instead of making his living honestly,
would thus be obliged, by co~tition, to eacri6ce many hundred dollars yearly by
keeping a good store of genome drugs and other preparations, many of which are
decomposed or spoiled in a short time ; and as he is not indemnified by a regular set
of customers, he is obliged to regard cheapness much more than genuineness ; and
even as the only means of subsistence. This is, aleo, the reason why many wholesale
druggists, in large American commercial cities, to our knowledge, deal only in the
cheapest kind of drugs for inland consumption, and refuse to purchase at a high
price, genuine drugs, except they can export them, at good profit, to Europe; con-
vinced by repeated experieDce, that their high prices would prevent their sale here.
This fact explains why, in a country where labor is so clear, a compound medtcine
is generally cheaper than one of its ingredients would be if it were good, for instaDce,
lunar caustic is much cheaper than the weight of silver which it should contain when
pure ; and, also, why a pulverized drug is often sold for less than one half the price of
the crude but unadulterated article, aa we have often experienced. Can it well be
expected from a common uneducated retail dr11ggist, who has to pay high for hia rent,
and for eo many requisites to make his establishment fashionable and elegant,
and who of course intends to make aa much money as possible, that he will keep
genuine drugs, or such as are seldom asked for, and that he will pay the highest
prices for drugs, which he frequently can purchase for leas than one-third what the
beat kind would coat him; as he is not subject to any law or control, which would
oblige him to keep only the beat articles oa hand! The public cannot judge of drop
as they can of bread and other articles of food and drink when in good health; the
law, therefore, should protect them as much aa poaaible. The injury to the public
must be evidently incalculable, when we consider that the degrees of adulteration
are very numerous, while the statements or directions of the medical profession are
always based onthe genuine article. It is revolting for every honest and conscientious
physician, to aee publicly offer!!d for sale, at ditrerent prices, the moat important drugs,
when every patient confidently hopes, to have at leut the best drug administered to
him. If we consider how often a few drops of stale or adulterated wine injure a
patient, we may easily comprehend that drugs, which, when properly prepared, are
beneficial,. become highly detrimental by the least alteration or adulteration. The
preparation of many medicines, particularly of narcotic extracts, depends eo much on
minutie and on their freshneas, that one grain may be beneficial, and a drachm of no
effect at all ; hence it must be considered a defect even in European countries, that
all those preparations which vary so much by the time of collecting the plant, pre-
paring the medicine, &c., pa~tic~larly the extrac~ of narcotic indigenous plants, are
not entrusted to one central JDS~ttutton, from wh~ch all druggists of a large city or
county are bound to draw then .supply. BJ: th11, also, m_uch. more uniformity in
regard to the effect of pharmaceuttcal preparations would extst, mstead'of which one
physician now considers~ ~;Dedi~ine llighly valuable, while an?ther regards it as useleaa.
The want of good medtcmes 10 one coun~ry, compared w1th another, is frequently
the only cause why htghly valuable experumces of the profession in the one, are
frequently lost or ridic11led in another. If, for instance, a well educated American
physician, not in favor of homreopathic conceptions, should read in a German treatise
of six drops of laudanum in a mixture of six ounces, he would smile at such a dose of
laudanum, because he is accustomed to prescribe sixty and more in the same quantity
of mixture. The German would, in return, consider. an experiment with such a
Digitized by Google
37
the greatest absurdity perhaps eve( priated in this country. On
page 13, of his "Concise View," we read, "He (Hahnemann,)
"discovered a mode, by which one drop could be accurately divided
"into any desirable number of parts." Any one will admit, that
it would be difficult to find in the United States a school-boy, who
if possessed of a sound mind, and familiar only with the first rules
of arithmetic, would be for a moment at a loss, to find out instan-
taneously the great discooery, proclaimed with so much emphasis
as if worthy of a Leibnitz, a Newton, or Legendre, viz : how one
drop of any solution of a drug or another soluble substance is to
be divided by water or alcohol into rh, nrln or any similar
fraction ! And yet, with all these frothy pretensions, this great
problem is even not solved correctly. The same boy could un-
questionably prove to such great dealers in "trifles and unheard
of niceties," that with all their ·mystifications, they are ignorant
even of the first rules of arithmetic, for if one grain of an extract 1 ~ 9'/ ~
be dissolved in a hundred drops of alcohol ; and one drop of this
solution be diluted by another hundred drops, we have one hundred ..,...~~ -
and one drops, and one drop of the last dilution will contain, with
all their shakings, not,as stated in the Concise View, page 12, the
yt1
tn but the uh·1" part of a grain of the extract, and thu~
quantity of laudanum extremely dangerous, and if he would prescribe twenty drops
only, he would find the American statement about the cure of a disease false, though
it was true and repeatedly confirmed by minute obee"ations. The only reason is
that the Germaa apothecary is in duty bound to prepare the laudanum exactly ac-
cording to the prescription of Sydenham, ita fire• inventor, whereas in this country the
apothecary being under no legal obligations, but at liberty to keep, to prepare and to
sell what and how he pleases, this indispensable medicine is generally nothing but a
poor solution of the worat kind of opium in common brandy, which, in many in-
etancea, especially in diseases of children, injures almost as much by the quantity of
brandy as of opium. No wonder, therefore, that manyAmerican druggists can sell an
ounce of such miserable stuff, the vial included, for a sixpence, though, if made
exactly according to the prescription from the best ingredients, one ounce would cost
the druggist himself at least upwards oftwo llhillings. It is diillcul& to procure, even
in large commercial cities like New York and Philadelphia, small quantities of drugs.
considered by the profession in Europe as very valuable, and even as indispensable ;
and most of the American physicians, and even the professors, must therefore re-
main ignorant about their use. Musk and castoreum moseoviticum for instance, for
which the poor Germans pay higher than for gold, because experience has taught them
for more than centuries, that in many diseases, especially of children and women, as
for instance in asthma spasmodicum Millari, typhus fever, ne"ous affections, &.c.,
their place cannot be substituted by any other drug. Many distinguished physicians
ofthis country, consider however both as obsolete and valueless; and even Professor
Cox of Philadelphia, who baa taught materia medica for so many years, continues to
wert in the 8th edition of his Materia Medica, published 1832, that musk is an obao-
lete drug, not worth more than other kinds of dried animal excrements, likewise
recommended by old authors as·medicines. No wonder! for he, together with Pro-
feasor Bigelow, who in his Materia Medica, considers also musk and castoreum aa
111perlluoua, have probably never used them when genuine,and have neverseen them
applied by others, though many distinguished English authors, each aa Cullen, Rober~
Wbyte, &.e., have recommended them highly.
Digitized by Google
38
continued, the 6th dilution for instance, does not contain
T
-
nndnnn but nnnn\mm part of a grain; making a
difference of the TnTTfTlnnnT part of a grain-a monstrous,
nay perhaps homicidal error to the unfortunate patient. of a
full-blooded hom<eopathist !-now this error increases so im-
mensely in the lOth, 20th, or even 60th dilution, that the lives of
an immense number of patients may be endangered! This
shocking error, committed by Halmemann in the first edition of his
Organon, published in 1810, will still be observed in its last edition
of 1829, and in his other works. The fact, that none of his dis-
ciples or adherents have 11 yet observed or altered these prescrip-
tions, may be considered as a very striking proof of the implicit
faith of men in the tenets of their master, be they ever so absurd.
Although we do not claim any minute knowledge of deep rna.
thematical calculations, we feel it our professional duty to teach
homreopathists, how to avoid in future such palpable and important
mistakes, by the following formula, the substance of which is,
that they should always add only ninety-nine drops, instead of a
hundred, after the first solution is made, and the same should be
observed from the beginning, if one grain of a drug is to be
rubbed down with sugar of milk. Taking :r equal to one graio
of the extract, and n equal to the intended degree of dilution, the
whole progression of the different dilutions, rising in their de-
veloped virtue, would then present the following formula : first
solution, or :& is equal to....!._, second dilution or :r' = .!.., third
w~ 104
dilution or :c• = 1~ , • . . . ntlt dilution or :&" = to 1:,._; oreach
desired dilution contains a fraction of the original grain of the
extract, equal to one divided by the power of ten, double the index
of the degree of the solution. By following their above stated
wrong calculation, of always adding a hundred drops to their first
dilution, $" contains a quantity equal to 102 (lO' ~ 1) .. _1 part
of ·a grain ; the general formula of this progression would pre-
sent the first solution or :&1, equal to 1~,, second solution or z2 =
10, (10! + 1) third solution or :&3
= 101 {10~+ l), . . . ...
ntA dilution or :c" = l02(l02l+ l)"-' The formula for triturat-
Digitized by Google
39
ing can be easily deduced in the same· manner.• Still greater.
errors will be found in Hahnemann's works, utterly inconsistent
with his whimsical dilutions and triturations, as we shall state
hereafter, although he calls (Vol. I. Chron. Dis. p. 2), homreopathia,
"the great gift of God," and according to Dr. Hering, (on page 21,
C.V.)"he urges upon hispupils the propriety ofaddicting themselves
' "to close thinking by the study of mathematics." But we can-
' not reconcile the necessity of thinking at all, and much less of
" close thinking," with the bomceopathic doctrine and practice,
both ofwhich, as we have seen, depend, according to the suggestion
ofHabnemann himself, only upon. good aenses and a good me-
mory, in addition to implicit faith in his dictates. We must,
however, approve of this wise advice, provided the" great genius"
is not eo ignorant.in modern mathematics, as be is in inodem che-
mistry. It appears almost, that he confouods this mother ofall ex-
act seiences, in its present atate, with the " ars mathematica'' of the
dark middle age~~, which contained the most horrible superstitions
in magic, demonology and witchcraft, all of which he seems to
favor.
As to our author's complaints in regard to the obstacles Hahne-
mann met with, we must state to the contrary, that the king of
Saxony, as well as the city authorities at Leipzig, did in no way
interfere iQ his practice or that of his disciples, except requiring of
them to observe the laws passed long before, which prohibited the
dispensing of medicines by physicians. These were the more to be
enforced with regard to a. man, who had exPoseci himself to pub-
lie contempt by his alcali pneum, and by his pretended secret pre-
ventive against scarlet fever, and who continued to involve his
practice in mystery, recalling the days of rude superstition, when
only the bands, consecrated by the Jiigb priest, were considered
adequate to dilute or rub down a grain of a drug. Besides, it was
but just and proper for the authorities at Leipzig, to protect the
respectable class of apothecaries, who cannot establish in Germany,
as they can in many other countries, a retail drug store without
the knowledge required for so important an occupation, and with-
out an ample pledge for their capacity to the public. It is only
after a. strict theoretical and practical examination in chemistry,
pharmacy, botany, mineralogy, &c. that they are permitted to buy
• We ban prefened the more uaual power of t~n, to that of one hundre.d, whieb
would have made &be formula atill more simple:
Digitized by Google
40
a privileged establishment, and the number of apothecaries is ju-
diciously limited in proportion to the population." The apothecary
being bound to keep a large stock of the best drugs constantly on
hand, many of which are spoiled within a few weeks or months
and are therefore to be renewed at great expense, and obliged to
have a laboratory, chemical apparatus, &c, could not be indemni-
fied, even by a profit of a thousand per cent, nor could he make
his living honestly, without a considerable number of customers,
on whom he could confidently rely.
Nothing but his old predilection for arcana and nostrums, could
have prevented Habnemann from writing his prescriptions ,as all
physicians are bound by law to do in Germany, and none but
one of his infatuated disciples could assert, that in a city like
Leipzig, there was no apothecary capable of being made " fami-
" liar in such unheard-of niceties," which any boy of twelve years
of age could perform iatisfactorily. The laws against the dispens-
ing ofmedicines should be enforced with no physicians more than
with bomreopathists, not to prevent their most innocent practice,
but to guard against all unnecessary mystery in a subject, which is
yet in all its features so opposed to the human intellect and to all
experience. It is evident that no physician, when he himself fur-
nishes medicines to his patients, can be held amenable to the
laws for any mal-practice, and that it is as satisfactory to every
honest physician, as it is to the public, to have deposited by his
prescriptions valuable documents of his circumspect, careful and
conscientious treatment, in the hand of a third party, the apothe-
cary, who is bound to preserve and to copy them. For if the
patient grows worse or dies, the relatives are at liberty to have the
prescriptions examined by impartial and competent judges, and
•
the physician likewise may rely on them at any time, for his de-
fence. How highly important are such regulations in a legal point
of view; in a criminal case, for instance, where the physician is
suspected of having murdered his patient on account of his large
* In Berlin, for instance, the wealthy capital of Prussia, with a population ofabout
two hundred and fifty thousand, there are only twenty-eight apothecaries. On this
account retail drug-stores in large German cities, including the licence, which, for
public convenience, belongs to the building, coBt from thirty thousand to upwards of
eighty thousand dollars. Once every year they are unexpectedly visited by a com-
mittee of magistrate• and professional men, appointed by the government to examine
the genuineness 11nd quality of die stock on hand, the laboratory, &c. Every error
or defect ofimportance, subjects the owner to serious reproaches, and by repeated in-
stances, by meddling with medical practice, or by the illegal sale af poisons, &c. he
risks the loss of his privilege.
Digitized by Google
41
fortune or from other motives.• The ignorant and careless phy-
sician will be always aware of these checks, and the miser has
no opportunity to administer to his patients cheap drugs for wbicli
he charges extravagantly, where expensive ones might have been
required. The advantages which the medical sciences as well as the
p11blie derive from the wise regulations mentioned, would be totally
lost; and no honest retail druggist could subsist in Germany, or in
any other country, where a strict medical police is considered in-
dispensable, if physicians should be permitted to dispense their
medicines themselves under any nugatory pretext: By the strict
• maintenance of these laws, all danger and mysterious quackery
are removed, the health and life of the people are protected by the
oecupations of the physician and apothecary being independent of
each other, and proper care can be taken by a vigilant medical
police, that both do their duty and that justice is done to them.
Let us for a moment even admit, that a homreopathic physician,
either regularly educated before adopting this" new art," or having
acquired it in a few weeks, (as was the case with an American
shoemaker who, tired of his trade, became, by the aid of a bene- '
volent homreopatbist a doctor,) can cure most of his patients ;
still every honest homreopathist, Hahnemann and Dr. Hering ex-
cepted, will admit that cases: be they ever so rare, may exist,
whioh will not yield to homreopathic but to allopathic treatment. In
sucha case, even the well educatedhomreopathist, who is forced to
leave his usual practice, by adopting a method which he might have
forgotten, or at least have been unacoostomed to employ, may
resort to measures which can easily do great injury ; but if he js
obliged to prescribe his recipe regularly, he will be more carefui,
and also be prevented f~om injuring the patient, by the control of
the apOthecary. The history of the Asiatic cholera proves that
our apprehensions are not imaginary, but that in fact, where
bomreopathists, who had been well educated in the principJea of
rational medicine,and had adoptedhomreopathiafor a certain length
of time, were afterwards obliged to recur to the allopathic treat-
ment; ·they prescribed medicines in much larger doses than were
ever approved of by any former school. Thus, if the homreopa-
thic doses of camphor, recommended by Hahnemann as an infal-
lible cure for this disease, proved unsuccessful, they nearly deluged
* An instance of this kind happened a few years ago at Paris, and the suspecteq
physician was oonvicted and executed.
6
Digitized by Google
thei.r patients with it. (See Allgem. Anzeiger &.c., der Deutscheo,
1831, No. li3, p. 2356 and Kopp l. c.) What mischief may
then be expected from a man like our hommopathic shoemaker,
in such cases, who is entirely ignorant of all the " learned lumber"
which is indispensable to the allopathic practice, if uncontrolled
by a well educated apothecary, who might prev~nt him from in-
creasing, to a great extent, the doses of the powerful hom~opa­
thic drugs, such as belladonna, nux vomica, arsenic, kc., as his
brethren did those of camphor, in the treatment of cholera1
The self-dispensing of medicines appears to be an innate pro-
pensity, the ~ery foible of all homreopathists, from thei.r master
down to the .homreopathical doctors, barbers, shoemakers, &c.
No wonder! if we consider, that it is extremely profitable to buy,
on commencing practice, about twenty dollars worth of drugs,
which may produce every year several hundred dollars profit, and
by adding annuaUy a few dollars worth, may become a profitable
stock, sufficient even for the great·grandson of the disinterested
and benevolent doctor; undoubtec.lly far better than any stock
of a bank, a rail-road, &c., ever will be. We may well exclaim
with the author of the Concise View, on page 29, " a treasure like
" this new art must quickly be estimated in a degree commensu-
" rate with its real value."" This is probably one of the principal
reasons why most homreopathists are so extremely anxious to
mystify the great art of homreopathic triturations, dilutions and
shakings of their drug-atoms, which tltey only can perform well;
and though they willingly may renounce the old meaning of the
initials M. D. on account of the " learned lumber'' still indispens-
ably connected with that signature in many countries, they are
anxious to preserve it probably in the sense of the signature of the
old Roman emperors, " Manu Divina.''
To prove further, that the quotations from Dr. Hering's" Von·
"cise.View," are not to be c-onsidered as a lapsus lingure, it being
~ ~xcep~ing the little trouble of shaking or rubbing down the drugs, the smallest
c~~ lD ~netence w~uld pay many thousand per cent profit for any homoopathic me·
d1cane, sance one gram of any dmg would be more than amply sufficient for the prac·
tic~ ofa homceopathist,. even if he lived ten times as long as Methusaleh, and aUended
d~y tbousa~~ of patients. Gener~y, b~wever, they mak.e their patients pay very
high for medicmes as well as for theu serv1ces ; and we know of instances where ho-
mmopatbiate, bein~ obliged to p1escribe a recipe in urgent cases, or where the pntjent
insia~ upon theu so doing, anxiously.e~deavoured to prevent the apothecary from
cbargmg .only a few cents for the med1cme, as he might feel bound to do, but re-
quested ~1m to charge half a dollar, apparently intending to avoid the suspicion of
theu Jl!-tlenta tha\ the medicine was of no value, bat in reality to make their usual
impositions ofthat kind lese conspicuous.
Digitized by Google
43
originally delivered as a speech: but that he believes these ab-
surdities and would make them also credible by others, we r.efer in
addition to pages 12 and 13, where, in speaking of the high dilu-
tions, he says," however striking this phenomenon was in itself,
" and however wonderful and strange it must have appeared to
'' Hahnemann, it nevertheless has been indieputably the result of
"his manipulations." Now, we ask any one of common sense,
whether this is not witchcraft, white magic, a kind ofchiromancy,
kc. revived in optima forma 'J It is impossible to see such things
printed in 1833, without dreading that the grossest superstition
may again for a time eclipse the beams of reason. It is therefore
extremely creditable to the Austrian and Russian governments,
that they have not only published the abortive results of the ex-
periments with the homreopllt.hic treatment in the hospitals, but
have, as far as we know, forbidden it,s further application.
On examining more closely the homreopathic doctrine, as con-
tained in Dr. Hering's "Concise View," which forms a faithful,
though very defective, abstract of Hahnemann's works, we know
not whether to be more amazed at his boldness in rejecting the
experience of the professio~ accumulated for upwards of two thou-
sand years, and constan~ly confirmed by the minuteobservations of
so many distinguished physicians, or to express the just indignation,
which every one must feel, who redects on the nonsense, the in-
consistency and falsehotxl ofthe doctrine itself. The indispensable
reference to Hahnemann's works renders this task much more
difficult and tedious, as it is not sufficient to read only one edition
of one and the same work, but to compare its different editions, to
prove the gross retractions and eontradictionA published at different
times ; the tenets and prescriptions once maintained by him as
eternal truths, being afterwards even rejected as false by himself.
Dr. Stieglitz, private physician ,to his H. B. M. and president of
the medical college of Hanover, one of the most renowned medical
authors and practitioners of Germany, says very properly in his
last valuable work, (Pathologische Untersuchungen, 1832, Vol. n
page 359), "No truly distingui.,hed thinker or eminent physician
" has as yet joined with Hahnemann, or declared himself fa-
" votable to the mass of nonsense contained in homreopathia ; a
" doctrine which deserves no refutation, because it admits of
" none ; boasting of rejecting all scientific discussion, and deriving
" its only support from propositions, opposed to .tle foundation of
Digitized by Google
44
"all inteJlect and knowledge." The only exception to this state:
men4 which also contradicts the report of our author and his
brethren in this country, respecting the rapid spread of this doc-
trine in Germany, is Dr. Kopp, at Hanan, well known in Ger-
many as an eminent practitioner and an honest man, to whose
publications the profession is very much indebted. He states, in
the introduction to his latest work, (Erfahrungen und Bemerkun-
gen bey einer pruefenden Anwendung der Homreopathie am
Krankenbette. Frankfurt, 1832.), that after studying diligently all
works belonging to the homreopathic doctrine.for two years, he had
subjected it to an impartial trial for about three years. Dr. Kopp
bas taken the very ground, which Hahnemann and his followers
have constantly urged physicians to take, viz. experiments faith-
fully instituted; he confirms the ~rectness of the homooopathic
treatment by 11. comparatively considerable number of cases,
though by no means to the extent of the assertions ofHahnemann
and his party. In many instances he did not succeed, and was
oblig~ to recur to the allopathic method. He .exposes the incon-
sistencies and whimsical conceptions of' Hahnemann in a very
striking, though a lenient and even very superficial manner ; evi-
dently from his want of critical acuteness and depth of intellect;
he appears also much influenced by the honour which he believes
he has conferred on this doctrine, as well as by the great credit
which he thinks due to him, being the first old medical author
of reputation in Germany, who had subjected this mode of treat-
ment to a trial and publicly confessed it. If this had not been
the case, he would not have considered so short a time; exclusively
spent in pr·ivate practice, as sufficient for any certain opinion with
regard to a treatment, totally at variance with common sense,
with aU rational principles and the experience of all ages. He
would have adverted more particularly to some remarkable results
of his experiments, obvious to the attentive reader of his works;
for instance, that the homreopathic treatment proved to him chiefly
effectual in chronic nervous complaints, which, as every physician
knows, is any thing but a certain test of the worth of a specific
treatment, since these complaints are frequently cured by mental
impressions alone, or by the simultaneous use of coloured pump-
water, bread pills, &c. Further, he always combined with the .
homreopathic treatment a strict diet, especially at the commence-
ment of acute diseases, and, nevertheless, in most of them be
Digitized by Google
45
could not dispense with the old rational or allopathic treatment.
In our opinion great credit is due to Dr. Kopp for his candor, but
not for his talent. He has proved again in this, as he did in his
earlier works on practical medicine, that he is incapable of an acute
philosophical investigation : this is obvious also by the whole em-
pirical tenor of this work, and even by its commencement, in
§1, where be suggests as an indirect vindication for homreopathia,
" that the adoption Qf general indications (principles) has injured
" the practice of medicine." Who would deny that this is not only
true with regard to medicine, but, in a certain respect, more or
less applicable also to all sciences, which are not founded on the cer-
tainty of mathematical calculations. Should we, for this reason,
desist from trying to obtain general principles, and to free ex-
periments from the illusions of our defective senses, and from all
errors to which the human intellect bas been and ever will be
subjected'!- Should we therefore totally renounce the indispensable
and beneficial influence of our higher mental capacities in all ob-
jects not palpable or measurable, and, by despairing to find during
our short life what truth is, sanction mere empiricism, or trust to
phantoms of credulity and superstition 1 It is true, Dr. Kopp's
frank explanation of his predilection for homreopathia, appears to
render his statement still more authentic ; his love for truth must,
indeed, be very great, since, favorably prepossessed as be was, be
did not find every thing true in this ~arvellous doctrine. We may
credit the facts as he states them, as we would the assertions of ·
a man who, believing in the existence of ghosts, visits the church
yard at midnight to see them, but says there were none there.
No lover of truth can assert, that the doctrines of practical me:
dicine, erroneously termed systems, have either fully satisfied
the higher requisites and faculties of the human mind, or the ar-
dent and just wishes of the true philanthropist. Of what ecieoce,
or of what art, even if it depends much less on conjecture and
experience than medicine, can . it be so truly said that, with
the immense treasures of all the natural sciences, of which me-
dicine is only a branch, and even with the great discoveries in
anatomy and physiology, &c. practical medicine standa before us
equally as uncertain, defective and chiefly dependent upo!J personal
.talent, as it did two thousand years ago 1 Let us ask any judi-
cious and candid physician, if he himself should require profes~
Digitized ~YGoogle
46
sional assistance,• and could choose from among all his colleagues,
from Hippocrates down to the present age, whether he would not
prefer the father of the healing art to any-'Of his contemporaries,
though Hippocrates could not even anticipate the innumerable
later discoveries, any one of which would appear sufficiently im-
portant to advance medicine for centuries1 Let him answer sin-
cerely, if at liberty to select from among the celebrated phyeieians
ofthe last three centuries, whether he would not at once prefer
a Sydenham, Fredrick Hoffman or Boerhaave to any physician
of the last twenty years, although these truly great men were
ignorant of hundreds of the most valuable discoveries, more or less
intimately connected with the healing art, and indispensable to
the medical practice of the present age 1 It appears almost incre-
dible, but it is nevertheless true, that medicine, one of ·the most
important and fertile branches of natural science, in respect to its
theory, and constantly cultivated by thousands of intelligent and
well educated men, has generally remained unimproved in its
practical application, and has almost become more uncertain and
hazardous than before, whilst most other occupations have been,
and are still, daily benefitted by the rapid progress of all sciences
and arts. In this respect we are nearly forced to admit the re-
proaches of Hahnemann against practical medicine of all agee, if
we could but depreciate the high degree of perfection which theo-
retical medicine has attained, the great advantages which practical
medicine will amply derive therefrom, after abandoning rude em-
piricism and relying more upon true experience and philoso-
phical inqpiry ; or if we could but reasonably admire an Heros-
tratus, because he destroyed one of the greatest wonders of human
art in antiquity, in order to secure himself a place in history,·as
the author of homreopathia attempts with rational medicine.
· The profession would be indebted to Hahnemann, not only for
the discovery of some new remedies and the specific actions of
some.older ones on the human body, but also in generalfor his ex-
posing the common track of medical practice and urging the great
necessity of improving it, had he examined with genuine critical
talent and faithful love of truth, the hitherto prominent systems
and methods of practical medicine, and had he not wantonly endea-
voured to destroy all rational principles in this science and all learn~
ing belonging to it, in substituting for both, whimsical conceptione
Digitized by Google
47
and suggestions, drawn from a. comparatively few, defective and
partial experiments.*
• Our remarka in these pages, and many other facta may prove that ouropposition &o
homc:eopathia arises neither from orthodox partiality for any medical system, nor from
predilection for any particular mode of medical practice. Faithful hommopsthiste
ueepted, there is hardly a profeasional man, engaged as we have been in an exten-
aiYe hospital, dispensary, and private practice for upwards of thirty years, who,
though faithfully selecting from all systems whatever appeared to him the most
ueful, has pursued, more than ourselves, a mede, which in many reepecta would have
made him partiat for the hommopathic doctrine, if there had been any trace of com-
mon senae m it. In order briefly to substantiate our auertion, we would etate, that
ill the whole of our practice we have never prescribed six venesections, nor about fifty
emetics, nor five pounds of cathartic salts, nor five ounces of jalap, nor two bottles
of eutor oil, nor ooe pound of Peruvian-bark in substance, and so in proportion to
other drugs which arc commonly used in large doses by physiciansof all schools; thus
alao for inst3Dce, croup excepted, we have never prescribed more than three grains
of calomel at a dose, and delirium tremens excepted, never more than three grains of
opium; though the aboYe mentioned extent of our private practice alone, yielded at an
nsrage, no& less tban fifty patients per day. We may ny that, when some of our
colleagues scarcely reflected on drachma to be given, we weighed grains, and one
drop of laudanum more or less in a mixture of six ounces, or one grain of camphor
was 1111 object of high consideration for us ; as experience bas clearly taught us from
the beginning of our career, at the age of eighteen, that in no human occupation the
cooceptions of smallness and largeness prove to be more relativethan in practacal medi·
cille, and that, to a certain reasonable extent, the smallest dose of a medicine may be
too large, the largest too small. We were therefore, also in favor of tire most
ptwerful drugs, and of Yery large doses when smaller ones did no senice, ud our
'patients were generally'the best customers of the apothecaries.-We should plead
eurselns guilty of the grossest quackery, did we claim greater talents than others, or
boldly assert, that by our deviating so far from aU methods of treatment, generally
adopted, we have always only witaessed its salatsry effects. But we ahould feel
Ulljll"8ful toward• the mercy of Pro'Yidence, beetowed upon our exertions, and should
belaen ourselYes po111eased of a too refined egotism, if, from misplaced professional
delicacy and from too anxioualy avoiding the unjust reproach of public ostentation,
we ahoufd withhold the truth, which, in our present situation, can only be useful to
otllers, and to which many of our former respected colleagues at Altona and Ham-
burg, and the l1uge enlightened communities of both those cities, will not refuse to
teaUfy. We have reason to acknowledge with pious gratitude, that generally, the
ra•ulta,of our treatment were"by no means behind those of others, but inmany respects
diltinguisbed bf a comparatively short convalescence and durable health after re-
CO'Yecy; resulte which are only observable when a physician bas retained for a long
aeries of years the same reeidence, and has enjoyed during so long a time the most
unreetricted c()llfideru:e of many families. We may unconsciously possess peejudices
as aU men do more or leas,-bomo sum et humani nil a me alienum p11to--but' in
doing j111tice &o oursel'Y~s, we confess that we have always been particularly anxious
to destroy all those prejudices which might in any way influence our vocation ; being
aware that truth and error are not dependent upon authorities of men and upon the
majority of votes, nor upon the length of their duration ; that amo~ all colljecf.IJral
sciencet1 none is more uncertain and liable to prejudice, errors and mastakes than the
bealing art, and that it might be more pardonable to any other than to a physician,
conscientiously reflecting on the important sequels of his arduous vecation, wilfully
to entertain prejudices, and to worship the suggeetions of others, may they be e¥er so
mnch supported by delusive facts, in being opposed to his own judgment and his
faithful experiments. · .
Our views of medical practice, however, ape with some of Hahnemann's fanciful
conceptions, not simply m attention to minatim; for, upwards of thirty-be years ago,
when the cow-pox was first known as a preventive against small-pox, having been
ICtively engaged in vaccination, we opposed and have continued to opposa the erume·
-oos mode of ita propagation as generally adOpted and hitherto pursued by th•"Profell-
aion, from reasons similar in some respect, to the auggestions of Hahnemann. Our
repeated aad predictions, in private as well sa in public, especially those made in a
treatise published 1S22, and entitled, "On the dangers of the meuures hitherto
dopted for the propagation of cow·pox.-(Die Gefahren der bieber befolgten lllau-
Digitized by Google
48
Raving been for upwards of thirty years engaged in an extensive
public and private practice, we have attended closely to all that
bas happened around us in the profession, and we have at least
been anxious not to be prepossessed by any prejudice against any
suggestion from abroad, or from any lilOUrce whatever, if it appeared
to us consistent with reason and experience. Educated in the old
gastric school, we commenced practice at a time when John
Brown's system of medicine was much admired and followed in
Germany. It appeared to us that this doctrine, though many of
its tenets had been alluded to long before by Friederich Hoffman,
Ernst Stahl and some other distinguished authors, was founded on
some highly important rational principles of physiology and pa-
thogeny. We however soon observed that, even with the great
changes and improvements made in this doctrine by eminent
German professors in philosophy and medicine, it was too narrow
in its explanations of the conditions of human life during the
healthy and diseased states, and that most of our contemporaries,
who were then implicitly devoted to this doctrine, applied it without
impartial judgment, without due regard to the contradictory ex-·
regain zur Verbreitung der Kuhpocken,) have since been confirmed by many pro-
fessional men, viz: that the cow-pox, in itself a munificent gift of Providence, by ita
unquestionable protection against the destructive small-pox, when pure and properly
managed, has become,by the negligence and carelessness ofthe medlcalJ?rofeasion and
the public authorities, one of the greatest scourges with which mankind na ever
aftlicted ; for it has not merely ceased to be protective, but, if things continue as
they are, we may predict with great probability, that in less than halfa century, almost
every one will be .affected by one or more dyscrasie, from the indifference of most
physicians, and the ignorance of the public; whether their healthy child be vaccinated
from another, who is perfectly healthy, or with vaccine-virus, perhaps contaminated by
syphilis, itch, herpes, scrophulosis, &c. We repeat it frankly, the cow-pox has,
merely from the reasons mentioned, ceased to protect against small-pox; notwith-
standing, by professional caprice, the term varioloid or any other name be applied to
the eruptive disease, whiclt in many cases deforms and destroys like the small-pox.
Parents bereaved by varioloid, may be temporarily comforted by tables of mortality,
showing that cow-pox protects against small-pox; but the time will come, wheu the
public and the profession will be awake to this subject. We only hope, that it wiU
.be t!lbOn enough, to prevent the imprecations ofposter1ty upon their anceators, and upon
a discovery, which could have done them 80 much benefit, and has done them so
great and almost irreparable injury. Without many verified documents, posterity would
not believe, thafin an age, when thouasnds have been 80 infatuated as to admit, that
spirits and miracles maybe developed from the many millionth part ofa grain of table
salt, charcoal, flint, &c., by mere triturations and shakings, the proportionally million
times larger quantity of a syphilitic or any other infectious matter, contained in a drop
of cow-pox lymph, and multiplied by the immensely more powerful processes of the
li'fing human body, should have been regarded as nothing! Had Hahnemann ever
seriously rellected on this subject, which approaches 80 near to his singular conceptions
about .the iuamense action of the smallest doses of drugs, and still more so to his
fooliab ·theory of all chronic diseases, that it is almost incredible, how he and all his
followera .could have missed it; he would have amply c.
ompensated for all his impo-
sitions and absurditios, in using his unmerited authority, for the protection ofmillions
against such great injuries.-Hahnemann is, on the contrary, rather partial to unre-.
strained vaccination, and opposed to revaccination, which should be tnstituted after
purberty, from reasons suggested ami published by us, in Rust's Magaz.d. ges. Heilk.,
Berlin, 1827.
Digitized by Google
49
perience of past times and of their dissenting fellow-practitioners,
and therefore to the manifest injury of their patients. With regard
totbe theory ofBrown's doctrine, it must have been obvious to every
unprejudiced observer, that the living body, in its healthy and dis-
eased state, could not be dependent only upon the plus or minus re-
lation between its excitability and external stimulants generally,
witbout regard to the specific quality of the latter, the specific
structure, and the thereby specifically modified excitability of the
single systems and organs; and that neither the rude conceptions
of the Brunonian in regard to nature, considering himself her
master, could be true, nor that the lancet, opium, brandy, and a few
similar articlescould be the only remedies granted by Providence for
the great variety of diseases. The important objection made by
Brown's opposers to one of his fundamental principles, viz. that all
vital action must be considered only as the result of the correlative
inverse ratio between the excitability ~nd the stimulant, was never
aoawered satisfactorily by its defenders, although if this proposition
were true, it would be difficult to comprehend the existence of any
dynam~disease. On the other sideBrown himself, however unbi-
a&led by almost all.other acknowledged professional dogm&~~,-as all
reformers in medicine or those who pretend to be so usually are,-
believed in the existence of a state termed general llypersthenia.
This opinion, though adopted by all medical schools, appears
nevertheless conuary to the laws of nature, inasmuch as any
machine, living or not, cannot be diminished or disturbed the
least in its total action by the proportionaUy increased strength of
all its siogle parts; this implying rather a state, which must be
less subjected to any derangement than any other state imaginable.
The judicious physician, however, aware of this and similar defects
and inconsistencies of that medical theory, some fundamental
principlesof which will last as long as rational physiology and prac-
tical medicine shall exist, may they be ever so much neglected for
a short time-will be better satisfied with its cautious application,
than with many vague conceptions and prescriptions of the older
schools. It was principally the rude manner in which Brown, and
his followers more particularly, ventured to apply his energetic mode
of treatment, that caused the sudden downfall of a doctrine which
at first had been received with so much enthusiasm by the most
disl.inguiahed practitioners, aqd which had promised to last for
centuries. This doctrine gave way after a comparatively short
7
•
Digitized by Google
existence to another method, which, accordant to similar epochs in
the history of medicine immediately following each other, was
quite the opposi,te, instead of avoiding the faults and mistakes, and
improving the truths and benefits of ils predecessor. · When the
orthodox Brunonist imagined every one of his patients lost by
asthenia, unless saved by madeira, opium or bark, his succeed-
ing younger colleagues ·or he himself, witnessing the frequent
failures and disasters of their former method, became converted
into orthodox antiphlogists or gastricists ; they considered all dis-
eases as arising from a general superabundance of blood, from a dia-
thesis in6ammatoria ororgasmus, or also from a morbidly increased
accumulation of bile, mucus, &c., which were either quite imagi-
nary or rested on delusive symptoms only. Without regard to the
true causes of these different symptoms, they neglected properly to
value the general as weR as specific actions of the vital power, as
partly dependent upon and modified by the different tissues and
their sympathetical connexions, which jointly constitute the living
functions of the animal and particularly of the human body. The
profession, overlooking, more than ever, all other causes of dis-
eases, now again presumed in most patients an inflammation, sub-
inflammation, or changes dependent upon them. The results of
most post mortem examinations, seldom failed to confirm such a
state of things supposed during life, and to demonstrate some dis-
coloured, indurated or suppurated part; and frequently in this
manner a new species of "itis" was created, in order to swell stiR
more the large cata1ogue of these kinds of diseases, which appear
at present to be a1most the only ones by which the human race is
affiicted. It will without doubt be conclusively proved by posterity,
that pathological anatomy,-which if duly appreciated is not only
extremely valuable, but indispensable to the practice of medicine,
especially as it has thrown so much light in modern ages on the
diagnosis of many diseases,-has, particularly in our times, fre-
quently been made of immense injury, by over-valuing its results,
and by causing false conclusions, drawn from one state of things,
death, to be applied to another one widely different, life. The
secret recesses of the animal body, wherein the processes of life
have been performed, will always remain inaccessible to the scalpel
of the anatomist, and when a post mortem examination shows
correctly to the minute investigator the seat of the fatal disease,
he will nevertheless remain ignorant of its cause and developement.
Digitized by Google
:»I
" Omnia inurta et in naturre majestate alxlita. (Plio. hist. nat.
"Lib. 2.") It deserves alsoparticular notice, that such examinations
are sel~om instituted without previous medical treatment, and that
therefore, besides the great differenu which must exist between
the commencement of a disease and its termination, after days,
wee.ks, or even months have .elapsed; the state of things should
DQt be ooosidered as unmixed and only as the consequenu of the
d~ itself, but also as the possible result of the treatment. False
opinio~ of the very nature of many diseases have thus been san~­
tiooed for a much longer time than they would otherwise have
been, and have greatly injured the true advancement of the pro-
f~n.
The hiatory of medicine will justly censure the rude empiricism
ioto wbicb the profession has relapsed at a period, so distinguished
by many valuable discoveries in all the natural sciences, and will
record alao the singular fact that those discoveries, particularly in
aat.ural philoeophy, chemistry, anatomy and physiology, which
might. ha'Ve improved practical medicine, should have remained,
ahnos&. uaPOticed by the same nation, whose Blumenbach, Bur-
4Mb, Tiedemann, Treviranus and others had continued, with un-
paralleled.zeal and success, the great work commenced by Albertus
Haller, the father of physiology. Now and then old controversies
of a general interest to practical medicine were renewed, but in a
IDAUlel' unworthy of the great progress in physiology and che-
mistry; for instance, the disputes between the solidists and the
bllftloral pathologists, and especially with regard to the former,
whether.the action of the nervous system should be considered as
the ooly excitior and regulatiDg power in the living animal eco-
llePly, or not. Of the number of professors and authors on prac-
tical medicine tllere were, in our times, but few1 who thought with
more true phil<lsophical acuteness and consistency, that animal
life i~ general, especially its physical functions, should be consi-
dered as particularly influenced by the universal powers of nature;
that all the single systems, organs and parts of the living animal,
are more or less endowed with the same power, and that their va-
rious functions depend upon their particular primitive and subse-
queot furmation and chemical composition, by which their at-
tractive .00 repulsive powers, or their livi~g electro-chemical pro-
eeaees,as well as their other manifestations of life, are .only modified
toDd diversified, eo as to form an harmonious or inharmonious indi-
Digitized by Google
52
vidual whole, in the healthy and diseased Btate. The majority of
the professi6n recommenced, on a larger scale than before, to treat
diseases merely upon symptoms, which were generally connected
only accidentally with the cause of the symptoms, or, at least were
incident also to opposite causes, instead ofconsidering all the consti-
tuent parts ofthe livingbody, from the brain down to the excremen-
titious matter not yet excreted, as possessing life; although all these
single parts constituting the living whole, pro tern., gradually in-
crease in their importance, from the excrementitious matterand the
hair, bones, blood, &c., up to the brain, by which the finite or
material world is reciprocally connected with the infinite or imma-
terial empire of ideas, feelings, imagination and volition.-Thus,
if a vigorous individual is suddenly attacked with symptoms of
pleurisy or ofinflammation of the brain, liver,&c., after mental ex·
citement or after the abuse of spirituous drinks, &c., immediately
previous to a cold, &c. it is not considered worth while minutely to
examine the causes, and to distinguish whether the case is a ·ge-
nuineinflammation of the serous coatofthe lungs, ofthe brain, &c.,
or whether it is only a catarrhal, rheumatic or a similar affection,
arising from a checked or perverse conductive capacity of the ner-
vous system, which may be easily reestablished without resorting
to violent measures; no, the whole morbid process is instantane-
ously considered as a violent inflammation, arising from t1. supera-
bundance or an orgasmus of the blood, though no one can de-
monstrate what cause could well have generated an orgasmus, or
much less have increased so suddenly the quantity of blood. Sup-
posing even this conjecture right, and the focal inflammation to be
unquestionably a genuine one, though no well educated physician
will totally deny the necessity of large bleedings or other rea-
sons, no regard is paid to the plain objection which might be raised
against all large general abstractions of blood, viz. that they cannot
remedy the disease directly, on account of the simple fact, that,
if an even quantity be deducted from an uneven one, the un-
evenness must naturally remain the same as before, and that
the most valuable material for all vital exertions, the blood, is
lost in addition, ·frequently without any other advantage than the
chance offered to the energetic constitution and the good fortune
of the patient to overcome, not only the disease itself, but also the
bad effect of the injudicious treatment. A few such cases, from
which the patients fortunately escaped, are held forth as the tro
D1g1tized by Google
53
phies of the art"; many faitlafully recorded aat fatal, either immedi·
ately or after a lingering chronic disease, are attributed to other
accidents by the followers of the dominant method, and thouaande
fall victims to the same ill treatment without being noticed.
When after a short delusive relief by bleeding, cupping, leeching,
purging, &c., the symptoms again become aggravated, though
nothing could justify the opinion of a renewed increase of blOod,
&c., one would suppose that these fancied causes would henceforth
remain out of the question, and that the patient would be subjected
to another treatment ; far from this, the lancet, cathartics, &c. are
again and again employed, until the poor sufferer is reduced to the
utmost, and the physician, suddenly. inspired by meek devotion,
invokes the· aid of the same healing power of nature, to the voice
of whieh he was quite deafa few hours p~viftut., or which he con-
sidered shortly before as impotent, though this very healing power
of nature, properly supported and directed, would probably have
saved the patient, whom now all those invocations and all the large
doses of ether, musk, opium and bar~ are unable to restore. The
gr088est misconceptions continued to prevail in the practice of me-
dicine at the time, whe.n the great discoveries about electro-
chemical processes ahould have attracted the closest attention of
the practitioner, in order to enlighten his conceptions in regard to
c&UIJe& of disease and the action of drugs. This great agent,
attending most if not all the operations of physical nature, pro-
ducing immense effects in the most subtile manner, and wit~meana
apparently quite disproportionate, seems to have attracted hitherto
only the attention of the natural philosopher and chemist, although
the highly important identity of electricity and magnetism, as dis-
covered by Oersted, the undeniable and remarkable phenomena of
animal mag.netism, and thestructure and functions of the nervous
system from its first lineaments to its perfect developement, so much
elucidated in modern times by Bichat, EeU, Magendie, Tiedemann,
and others, should have led to different results in regard to the
treatment of diseases in general, and more particularly to the quan-
tities, in which drugs may be properly administered. ,Disregarding
the two golden maxims, " quid fieri potest per pauca non fieri debet
" per multa," and " omne nimium vertitur in contrarium," almost
every patient, if dangerously ill, resembles, in the eyes of the phy-
sician, a strong castle, with its obstinate commander, in a pro-
tracted siege, to be destroyed and levelled rather than preserved
Digitized by Google
and conquered by skilful and prudent rnanreuvrea and neaoc.ia-
tions ;-his principal object appeare to subdue the disease a& all
events, without thinking, that in consequence of the v~nt mea-
sures taken, and the surplus of powerful drugs given, the patient
might either die, or suffer through his whole life, wilh aU the pains
and inconveniences of a broken constitution.
Even the two lateral branches of medicine, surgery and obs-
tetrics, both so intimately connected with and dependent on tbe
former, have not derived advantagea proport.iooa&e to the great
progress which they have made in their own epheres within the
last thirty years, only on account of the stationary or rather retro-
grade state of practical medicine, within the same period.
Operative surgerr has in itself attatned in our preeent times, by
distinguished merfI every civilized nation, a degree of pedectioo
hardly imagined in former ages. The diagnosis of surgical eases
has been greatly improved, and operations sucx:.e.afully executed,
which justly claim the greatest respect and gratitude for the skill,
talents and dexterity of many eminent surgeons of the preseot
age ; but with regard to the preservation of the human frame by
judicious medi~hirurgical treatment, either to prevent the necee-
sity of painful and dangerous operations, or to ensure their suecess
by a circumspect after-treatment, we venture to aseert that the
results are by no means equal to what they might be. Altbougb
not a· practical surgeon, we have known many cases to prove
fatal, where in all probability by a less active or at least by a beUer
mode of medical after-treatment, life woul dhave been saved, or
where the unfortunate patient would have recovered without beiog
mutilated and deformed. The minute diagnosis of the differeot
speciesofstrangulated hernia for instance, has been 80 astonishingly
improved by the great talents and uuited exertions of men like
Scarpa, Astley Cooper, Dupuytren, Heeselbach and othen~, that we
can consider this important chapter of practical surgery, not only as
quite different from what. it was a century ago, but as almost per·
feet. Are the results of these great improvements, proportionally
more fortunate tban those of past ages, when snch cases were 80
roughly handled by rude empirics1 We venture to say,by no means.
Many, endangered by the premature operation for strangulated
hernia, could have been saved, either without any operation, by a
judicious medical treatment, or at least after the necessary operation
had been circumspecllyperformed,ifthe common pernicious opinion
Digitized by Google
55
!lad not prevailed, that the patient must immediately swallow im-
mense doses of salts,castor oil, calomel,jalap, &c., and besubmitted
indiscriminately to repeated bleediDg18, leeching, &c., in order to en-
force at all hazards the natural functions of the bowels, which had
been so long morbidly affected and severely injured. No attentioR
is paid to the more reasonable supposition, strikingly confirmed
by daily experience, that nothing is more beneficial, and that
nothing can more contribute to restore the healthy funetions ofany
organ which has suffered by a disease or by a painful operation,
than rest, and the careful removal of any thing which might force
it to perform its functioM, which according to the laws of nature,
mustalways remain morbidlyaffected orsuspended fora certain time
after the meehauical hindrance bas been removed by art. How
many fractured bones, after being well set, might have been quickly
and safely cured by a proper medical treatment, instead of which
the patients have suffered for years, at the risk of looeing the limb
at last by amputation, under more aggravated circumstances than
in the beginning, or have remained through life lame and sickly,
in consequence of the methodical ill-treatment which was intended
to prevent danger, but which really caused it! This is plainly
seen by impartially analyzing such a course, and by considering
what woUld probably be the natural effect upon the stoutest
labourer, who \Vhile enjoying perfect health should be eonfined at
once to a bed with a diet of gruel, lemonade and a little toast ; then
largely bled, leeched, purged; the next day forced to swallow re-
peated large doses of anodynes ; then bled again, and so alternately
for a week only ! Every one will admit that such a man will fall
dangerously i11, and that perhaps he will be affected with sonte
local complaint, as erysipelas, rheumatism, or the like. Will not
this be much more the case if he has unfot"tunately fractured a
limb1 Can it be wondered at, that under such improper treat-
ment, frequently pursued by eminent surgeons, the patient soon
becomes feverish, delirious, and perhapseven, at an unfavorable sea-
son, affected by locked-jaw, that all the functions ~..orne disordered,
that the limb while yet morbidly affected by the mechanical injury
and the local irritation, is forced to become the centre. of a general
sympathetical morbid reaction of all the systems and many im-
portant organs ; that by this the fracture does not join after many
months, though it would have perhaps been cored in six weeks ; or ·
the local inflammation being artificially protracted,and transmuted
Digitized by Google
56
mto no asthenic one, instead of the secretion of 11uids, ricb with
sound fibrin and osseouil substance, and well adapted for a healthy_
substantial caUus, sanies becomes secreted, fistula, caries,&c.,ensue;
and at last, if amputation does not fortunately check all these de-
structive processes, incurable consumption follows1 The greai
number of middle-aged individuals with mutilated limbe, which are
not caused by war or any similar calamity, now more common
than formerly, in large cities, show that the surgeops of our age
are generally more skilful in cutting offa limb, than in preserving
it, though it may easily be proved that in most of these cases the
loss of a limb postpones, merely for a number of years, premature
death, and that its preservation is therefore to be considered an
iodicatio vitalis, aa much as the amputation generally is.
The case is nearly the same with the practice of midwifery,
notwithstanding the great improvements made in this branch of
medicine by many distinguished professors and authors. Without
pretending to judge of the minutire of an art which we have never
practically pursued, we may however notice, that we seldom met
with accoucheurs, who did not abuse the application ofinstruments
or other artificial aid, in cases which nature alone would have over-
come with ease, if sufficient time had been allowed her. This ia
particularly the case in countries where this art is not entrusted to
the care of well instructed women, who in many case~ not requir-
ing professional interference, are naturally more disposed to wait
patiently, as they know by their own experience, the slow but
safe operation of nature better than men, who generally en-
gaged in a large medical and surgical practice, frequently ne-
glect one of their duties by overhastening. Most accoucheurs
are also anxious to interfere improperly with the natural expul-
sion of the placenta, which, as sound physiological principles and
many experiences demonstrate, may mostly be left to nature her-
self, with great benefit to the confined woman ; few urgent and
tedious cases excepted, which the enlightened art bas minutely
defined, but which never should form a general rule. In the
medical treatment of the lying-in-woman great and very obnoxious
prejudices still prevail. Hremorrbages are now generally checked,
without regard to the great variety of causes, by bleeding, cold
water, ice, and by the strongest astringents, applied internally and
externally ; the rational accoucheur of former times removed
them perhaps not as quickly, but safer by the tincture of cinnamon,
Digitized by Google
57
small doses of laudanum, ipecacuan~a, refracta dosi, and by other
remedies' appropriate to the different prevailing causes. Many
accoucheurs at present do not generally ~<maider, although they
may quickly remove the prominent symptom, yet that the imme-
diate and still more the later consequences are often very serious.
Thus, to say nothmg.of subsequent sterility, many chronic diseases
of the uterus at a late age, such as polypus, ·scirrhus, cancer, &c.,
which are now more frequent than ever, and increase yearly at a
shocking ratio, (see Siebold's Journal, f. Geburtsh. Vol. VIII., No. 3,)
are partly caused by the illtreatment referred to, and by many
similar prescriptions, dictated by a rude empiricism. Other causes,
moral as well as physical, which we shall perhaps quote occasion- .
ally, may be the reason why young married ladies are now more
afFected in their health and beauty after one pregnancy, than their
ancestors were after a dozen, though many other professional and
popular prejndices respeeting puberty, pregRancy, Jabour and con-
finement, and the present defective system of education, bear un-
doubtedly a part of the charges.•
• By combining the practice of medicine with that of surgery and midwifery, the
progreas of the former hae been much impeded. An impartial observer, who does not
IJelieve that the mental capacities of men have improved much during the laet cen-
turies, must thiak it strange, that with the immaosely increased extent ofall medical
and eurgical eciencea, practical medicine and practical surgery are at present combined
in the same pereoo in most countries ; it wae formerly but seldom the ca~, and does
not exist no• 80 extensively in England 1¥1d France, ae in Germany and other coun-
tries. The history of literature and arts may raise the question, whether the intel-
lectual capacities of individuals are as great now as formerly, particularly ifwe do
jaatice to our ancestors, and consider the much greater difficulties which they had to
eocounter and their far more limited meana. The anawer will unquestionably be
still more in faYor of our ancestors, also in regard to their literary acquirements, if
we reflect on the stupendous works of men, as Martin Luther, Gnevius, Friedrich
Hoffmann, Linne, Albertua Haller. &c., some of which are 80 voluminous that copying
them only, would almost require more than one mao's life. The present coonexion
of practical medicine with surgery must be atill more remarkable to one who reflects,
that the father of the healing att emphatically exclaimed, upwards of twenty-five
ceotariee ago, "bow short is human life, and bow long the art !" ROd who rellects also
that, in modern timea, nothing bae more promoted the rapid improvements in almost
all branches of industry than the division of labor. We must admit, that all nations
of high standing may pride themeelvea upon posae88ing few men equally distinguished
by their great acquirements and talents in medicine ae well ae in surgery, and that
in general the people, eapecially when their number is but amall in comparison to their
extent of country, could rather dispense with good physicians than with good sur-
pone, and will detive much greater benefit from thetr professional men, if they can
oticiate ae physicians equally as well as surgeons and accoucheurs. In general, how-
ner, ae Providence bae prominently distinguished certain nations with particular mo-
ral and intellectual diepoaitions and feeliuj{s, and ae no nation c;ao, with propriety,
claim to combine in her natural character the virtue•, talents and acquirement• of all
the others, ao Providence bas al80 seldom endowed one individual with the qualifica-
tions oeceaaary for medical practice and for the other two aciencea, which must be
considered more aa arta and therefore as belonging together. The natural diapoeitioo11
for the physicians on one 1ide, and for the surgeon and accoucheur on the other,
dilfer widely. Medicine depends more prominently upon a disposition for abstract
phiiOttOpbical ill<luiriea, upon a lively imaginatien and sympathy; the other two more
8
... --·-·
Digitized by Google
58
With this brief sketch of the practice of medicine in our age, &o
which we shall occasionally add a few remarks, the dissatisfaetion
particularly upon a faithful memory, upon mechanical ingenuity and dexterity, and
UJIOn a certain degree of apathy. The surgeon has generally to operate upori the
human body, when suddenly injured by some mechanical power, while enjoyinJ
health; the physician is more commonly called in, aftera succession of causes, and therr
correspondent effects, have long undermined the free vital action• of the body. The
province of the physician is more in the injured, or rather restricted actions of the
dynamical relations of the human body, more or less involved in mystery, and there-
fore mostly objects of conjecture ; the provinces of the other two are more the ge-
chanical hindrances and checks to the healthy functions of the human body, which are
mach more palpable and consequently are more readily discerned. Farther, while the
aurgeon ie eaaily misled by a too.Jively imagination, the talented,physician c&IJnot do
without it, since he must form an intellectual picture ofthe state ofthings, frequently
Ieee dependent upon previous events and preeent phenomena, than upon hie sympathy
with the feelings and sensations of the patient. Fr. Bacon says, very properly, in
hie work de Augment. SGient : " Quare apud poetaa summa ratione musica cum
" medicina in Apolline conjungitur; quia aimilis fere sit utriuaque artis ~eniua; atque
" in ea conaistat plane medici officium, ut sciat corporis humani lyram Jt.a tendere et
"pulaare, ut reddatur concentus minime discors et insuavis." No one thoroughly
acquainted with the profession, will depreciate surgery, and can deny the high credit
due to the accomplished surgeon, especially now that surgery has attained so much
perfection, and since so many are saved from premature death, or from a painful
miserable existence, merely by surgical skill. One severe case of typhus or scarlet
fever, of consumption, paralysis, &c., however, requires more philosophical acutt>ness
and depth, than most surgical operations, though, to a certain extent, the mistake& of
the physician are frequently much more ameliorated by the aid of nature than thoee
of the surgeon, since the slightest awkward or injudicious movement of the aurgt'OD
mav endanger the life of his patient, aml his ignorance in the treatment of a dislocat-
ed or fractured limb &c., can never be repaired by the aid of nature. From their diffe-
rent natural diapnsitions and occupations we find therefore, generally, that eminent
surgeons either undervalue all medical assistance, or, when acting as physicians, de-
cide too quickly ; they are much more in favor of too powerful and too large doeee of
drugs, payin~ Jess regard to minutilll than the physician, who, .devol.ing his life exclu-
sively to medscsl practice, has learned by it, that one ounce of blood unnecessarily ab-
stracted, or one drop of laudaaum improperly applied, may frequently decide on life
·and death. The surgeon generally deals by wholesale with the vital power, the phy-
sician more by retail, and we seldom find even wholesale merchants and retailers
equally attentive to minutil!l and equally successful in exchanging one kind of busi-
ness for the other. It would materially injure the surgeon, and degrade him to
a level with the lowest mechanic, if he were not thoroughly acquainted with the
whole extent ofthe medical profession; and no well educated physician can dispenee
with a minute knowledge of surgery; but where it is possible to separate the practice
of both, it will prove highly beneficial to the public, directly and indirectly, aa
both will be advanced. During the last twenty years the students ofmedicine direct
their attention more to surgery than to the acquirements of a philosophical insight into
the theory of medicine, which would best promote the elevation of their minds o•er a
rude empiricism. The complaints made upwards of a century ago by one of the
greatest pr&ctitioners and ablest medical authors, have become again but too troe.
Bernh. Ramazzini says, ia his Oper. "quando nostra hac ~etate medicina ad mecha-
" nismum tota prene redacta est, et schohe nil magis quam automatismum crepant"
It would not be difficult for an author, abler than oureelves, by minutely reviewing t.be
medical literature in the present age, to !'rove that medicine, by its amalgamation
with surgery, has rather adopted all the features of the latter, by relying more exclu-
sively on the palpable, especially if he should advert to the numerous medical and
surgical periodicals of England, France and Germany, and the proportional scarcity of
original medical works like those of Sydenham, Portal, J.·P. Frank, Benjamin Rueb,
&c., ·which are truly valuable for their abstracts of minute investigations during a
long and exclusively medical practice. An extensive periodical literature must be
considered as proving, that education and learning are extensively diffused, as we may
judge from the quantity of newspapers of the lively interest which a people is per-
mitted to take in ita political institutions, or really takes in its self-government.
Where the periodical literature of a certain science, which embraces many votaries
Digitized by Google
59
of many young physicians, aware of the many and great profes.
sional desiderata on commencing practice, could easily be explain-
ed, and would do honor to their intellect as well M to their huma-
nity and professional zeal. A large field is open to them, to find
out less hazardous andmore rational motles of cure, the materials
for which exist in the voluminous writings of many distinguished
authors, from Hippocrates down to the present time, and also in
the immense treasures, offered to the philosophical and scrutinizing
physician, by the high degree of perfection which all the natural
sciences, and especially physiology and pathologir.al anatomy,
have attained. But should the young physici1m, misled by igno-
rant fanatics, or by men who, being inconscious of the high duties
of their vocation, are anxious only to satisfy their morbid fancy
or low interest, reject all closer investigations after truth, as mere
" learned lumber;" and should he prefer to listen to the rudest
empiricism, rather than to the dictates of rational medicine, to the
temptations of a miserable quackery rather than to the warning
voices of his conscience and of so many distinguished physicians
deee not •ucceed, there·the low standing of profe88ional education ca~ot be ·doubted,
becauee well educated men of every jnofeseion must keep pace with the new disco-
leries and interesting suggestions· in their profession. But inaemuch as a great
llaleeman cannot be fonned or become satisfied only by the perusal of newspapers,
10 too in regard to sciences, no solid knowledge can be drawn from. periodicals and
re.iews only; they promote a superficial knowledge of scientific objects, and produce,
as b,as been proved in modern times in respect to medicine, many vague suggestions,
frequently not confirmed by experience. It is however evident that no other science or
~can ill this respect be compared with medicine and surgery, since in no other voca-
~on is the neglect of study so injurious. The artist, if unacquainted with the latest
diecoveries and improvement" in his art, will injure himselfonly, or may thue even pre-
te"e his origin'lllity; the lawyer, ifhe is not a distinguished scientific man, an author or
aprofessor, may easily be eatisfied by knowing the few alterations made in the laws
lid statutes, and, like the clergyman, who is thoroughly versed in his profe88ional
ltudies before entering into office, he may consider hts continued study more aa va-
luable meane to improve his intellect, and as an amusement worthy ofhia refined taste
llld of his vocation, rather thanas a duty. But the conscientiousphysicianand surgeon
lbould not be satisfied with the knowledge they attained before their examination
lid ~nation: and no patient will be contented with the knowledge o.f his pbysitian
tcqutred thirty or forty years ago, nor be satiefied if he remains uncured, or is even
!Datsrially injured, because his doctot has lost a good share of the old stock by the
llple ef eo many years, and has remained ignorant of the many improvements and
~overiea made during so long a period ; certainly not ! he silently wi~hes and is
entitled to demand, that he may be saved or rehevt>d by all the means whtch the pro-
ieasion offers at the moment he calla for its aid, whether this be practicable only by
anew discovery or suggestion recently made in his own or in any foreign country.
Both the physician and surgeon are therefore bound to continue their study, and free
themtelns from the reproach of beinJ, from neglected study, in many cases, the ne-
gative cause of great mischief and mjury. Every impartial and intelligent layman
will find it difficult to comprehend how this can be done by a man, even if J>OSse.ssmg
extraordinary mental capacities, talents, &c., when he is engaged day and mght m hts
bitpractice aa a physician, a surgeon, an Accoucheur, and perhapsalso as an &J>Othecary
~ druggiet. Is not indeed our life a little too short, to perform all these Important
duties conscientiously!
Digitized by Google
60
of all ages : be will repent, when too late, the irreparable ba oi .
his own happiness, by having entered the bygieian temple unpre-
pared for such an arduous task.
The reason why 80 many young men enter the medieal pro-
fession unaware of its extraordinary requisites and duties, and fee~
at a later period of their life, unhappy in the choice of their voca-
tion, may principally be ascribed to the toot~ ignorance of the pub-
lie in regard to medicine generally. No art, no science is indeed
more unknown to laymen, although in none they are more deeply
interested and of none they pretend to judge better. The true
and only cause of this is the want of proper information with
regard to the different sciences belonging to the study of medicine,
and especially to the want of a general philosophical edueatioo,
which is 80 much neglected in our time, although 80 indispensable
to all special scientific investigations, not only generally for the
formation of a sound judgment, but also for the acquisition of a
proper insight into the foundation and structure of all the sciences
and arts. We therefore frequently bear the most absurd asser-
tions about the profession and its practitioners, and see particular
confidence Jftaced in the unlearned and uneducated, whose con·
ceptions and prejudices harmonize more with those of the pu~c,
and who are devoid of that discreet and una~ modesty and
dignity which always distinguish the man of education and real
talent, and which render him less familiar with common-place
topics. Th~ are the principal reasons why the profession is
highly valued only among the rudest and the most civilized na·
tions, while its slanding is the lowest among those, whose state of
ci~ization is more calculated for useful knowledge than for ge-
neral philosophical inquiries into scientific matters, especially if
the legal requisites for entering the profession are at the same time
trifling, so that a large stock ofprofessional men is always at com·
mand. The large number of popular treatises on the cure of
diseases has also contributed much to perpetuate noxious preju·
dices and to promote very defective knowledge, which is much
worse than none at all, whenever the great difference of two or
more apparently similar eases depends on minute. distinctions, de-
rivable only from an intimate knowledge of the separate depart·
menta of the art. Very few and urgent eases excepted, in nine
times out often, the adoption ofprescriptions recommended in such
works leads to mischief much greater, than if nature is left. undis-
Digitized by Google
61
turbed, especially as such prescriptions are generally unconditiona~
and by not adverting to the great importance of the ddferent
eauses, promote the obnoxious opinion, that all medic:al practice
consists only in the close observation of the symptoms, and in
the application of the medMines recommended by the profession
for the differeat names of diseaaes. This erroneous opinion has
principally paved the way for the zealous adoption of homOlOpatbia
by 1na0y in Germany, the well educated and judicious pbysieians
excepted. Of all medical doctrines hitherto promulgated, no one
tends to promote prejudices against rational medieine more tbaa
hoiDCBopathia, although the present time is particularly propitious
for enlightening the public, and for re&t.ricting also the detrimenu.l
abuse of powerful domeetic medicines.
During the long interregnum of rational medicine, and the pre-
valence of many favourable circumstances, the author of hoDUBp&-
thia, even with his moderate talents, might have much promoted
practical medicine, if he had tried t.p confirm some of hi9 disooveriee
by ianpartial experiments, and to combine them with the indie-
pensable requisites of the rational healing art, instead ofdestroying
the latter in a manner unparalleled in the history of any seience,
eince the restoration of the sciences and arts, and worthy only of a
tJCieotific Vandalism. That this has been the course ofHahnem&IHl
and hie followers, we feel particularly bound to prove, by the fOl-
lowing review .of the principle8 or rather maxims of homceo-
patbia ; these maxims are-
1st. All simple drugs given to individuals in health, produce in
them, under all circumstances, certain definite morbid symptoms,
which are termed drug-symptoms, and which are similar to tbe
aymptoms observable in certain corresponding natural dile&888.
2nd. The direct curative power of each simple drug, and of all
medicines ~nerally, consists exactly and exclusively in the simi-
larity of the symptoms of a natural disease to their corresponding
drug-symptoms, or to those produced in healthy indiYiduals, by
administering certain simple drugs to them ; 80 that aU other o~
rations of drugs are to be considered ns capable only of admitti~
recovery indirectly, gr by chance.
3d. All natural substances, but especially all drugs aequire, by
certain meehani~l processes, certain medicinal powers, 80 that any
quantity of the substance or drug in question, however small, will
always operateabsolutely andunconditionallyas aneffectual remedy
Digitized by Google
62
in il.iJ appropriate disease, by its specific power properly developed,
which power or virtue, however, increases ad infinitum, in the
direct ratio of the mechanical processes mentioned, and in the in-
yerse ratio of the quantity of the substance.
To give a complete view of this doctrine, we must mention its
author's theory of all chronic diseases, published in 1828, 11bout
eighteen years after the first edition of his Organon, and twenty-
three years after his publication of the homc:eopathic doctrine.
We shall see hereafter, that in this new work, he has contradicted
and explicidy retracted the second fundamental maxim of homreo-
pathia, 80 that his doctrine, as it now stands, should be called Hah-
nemannism, rather than homreopathia.
At the very commencement of all horrireopathic doctrines, viz.
the experiments of simple drugs upon healthy individuals, we
meet with the great difficulty arising from Hahnemann's moral
aod scientific duplicity. To say nothing of the true conditions
of perfect health, which, in its strict physiological sense, is seldom
met with, and not ascertainable unless the person is thoroughly
known to the experimentalist from his infancy : wherever experi-
ments had been in11tituted by his opposers, exactly according• to
his first directions, and had proved abortive, he and his followers al-
leged, as a chief cause, the erroneous opinion entertained by these
opposers, that homreopatkic doses of a drug should affect healthy
persons. They afterwards stated, that to observe the truth of their
.experiments, it was necessary to apply the simpledrugt~ in question
in large allopathic doses, (see Hahnemann's Organon, 4th edit.
9120 and 121, Dr. Moritz Mueller in Archiv fuer Homreopathische
Heilkunde, Vol. III. No. 1, p. 30, Dr. Gross, ibid, No. 3, p. 133,
Dr. Rwnmel, ibid, Vol. V. No. I, p. 14.) Dr. Hering also alludes
to this, when he says, (I. c. p. 14), " medicines do not become salu-
" tary by their direct effecl.iJ, such as are manifested in experiments
"on healthy peri!IOns after strong and frequent doses, &c." Wilen
these experiments, thus altered by Hahnemann's explicit advice
had led his opposers again to results totally different from his state-
ments, and he found it difficult to verify other assertions of his
doctrine, he decided again in favor of his first suggestion of lw-
mmopathic doses. In this manner the author ofthe Concise View
repeals and contradicts, also (1. e. p. 20), his statements just quoted,
by saying : " But now its energies were developed, and displayed
"80 penetrating and powerful an influence upon the healthy
Digitized by Google
" subject of experiment, that the trials with it appertained eo the
" most diffieult and assaulting, so that higher developments were
''obliged to be made for further experiments; and for remedial
" purposes the d.evelopments were continued up to the thirtieth
·"power." Hahnemann himself explains this still more distinctly,
saying, wheu speaking of table-salt (Chron. Dis. Vol. IV. p. ~6),
" All these statements refer to trials generally iostitt,J&.ed oo robust.
"and healthy persons, with two or three dosetf of six little sugar-
" pellets, moistened with the deciUionth developed power. Only
" when tried on healthy persons, in such a high degree of develop-
" ment and solution, all other remedies also are capable of dis-
" playing their powers." It is evident that these contradictory
assertions caauot be reconciled with comQlon sense. Suppose
that A, when speaking of a substance, should say to B, test the
truth ofmy experiment, by taking once only the billionth part of a
grain of it, and B tried it without experiencing the desireJ effect ;
now A ridicules B for doing exactly what he, A, has repeatedly-
recommended, and t"!ays: " take it by ounces, three or more times
"a day, and then you will observe what I told you." B, howeYer,
in so doing, is, still unsuccessful; A now prescribes again what
he did at first, or a quantity of many thousand million times less;
every .one witnessing such a transaction would say, with the
greatest propriety, that A must be either a fool or an imposter; but
according tothe moral and intellectual conceptions Ofthe fanaticho-
mc:eopathists, ,! must be considered as " the strict and conscientious
" man, the earnest inquirer after truth, and the profound observer.".
(Dr.·Hering, 1. c. p. 14) !-In leaving Hahnemann's doses of drugs,
until we have arrived at the third maxim of homroopathia, we
refer at present to the experiments on healthy persons with larg~
doses of drugs. since, being forced to take one of both opposite
extremes, equally recommended by him, we consistently take that
oae which be has constantly used, until he l\ad in his experiments
lately resolved otherwise. We take this course also in favor of
homreopathia itself, because if the same dose of any substance or
drug should operate exactly the same in health and in a diseased
state, it would follow among other reasons to be mentioned, tha'
the substance or drug must IJe quite indifferent. ·
This point of view adopted, we shall find, however, palpable
contradictions, which, Hahnemann as well as his adherents, try in
vain to veil by the tinsel of a borrowed scietific language. Dr.
o;9;tized by Google
64
Hering says, in this IJfnnt, (I. c. page 14 :) "medicines do not
" become salu&ary by their direct effoots, such as are manifested in
"experiments oo healthy subjects after strong and frequent doees,
" but they are salutary by reason of their after-operation, or rather
''of the counteraction of the organization."
We should almost conclude from these suggestions, that the
injury of drugs, used in a manner not sanctioned by the tenets of
hommopathia, depends upon their not causing any counter-or-after-
action in the living organization. It appears impossible to com-
prebend how any substance could act otherwise on the living
body than by counter-action, or by directing the irritability, sen-
sibility, or whatever we may term the gene.ral or specific manifesta-
tion of the vital power to some primary action, from which, for a
longer or a shorter time, a series of. others, termed after-actions,
results. It would indeed be quite a novelty in physiology to believe
that medicines act oo healthy peri!Ons only, "by their direct effect,,
and that the "counter-action" is only a prerogative of the diseased
individual. It would also be difficult to comprehend, how any effect
can be perceptible without counteraction, and if it were really pos-
eible, how the homreopathic experiments on healthy persons l:iecame
manifest. If a substance does not produce counteraction in some-
way, then we can observe neither a beneficial nor a detrimental
action; it is a.n absolute nonentity, from which no positive con-
clusioB can be drawn. Without counteraction, the existence of
all diseases would be only imaginary, since life itself could not
exist ; the direct action of all external influences, precluding all
counteraction, being nothing but_death itself. But admitting .even
that the suggestion quoted implies counteraction in the diseased
and no counteraction in the healthy state, or a counteraction ma-
terially different in both ; this itself involves so great a difference
between the healthy and diseased states as reasonably to preclude
such inferences. Supposing eve~ the statement in the " Concise
View" to be correct, viz: that the immensely diluted drug acts 'IIUJ1'e
mildly and with less violence in the diseased state, notwithstand-
ing its vastly multiplied developed power, a proposition yet incon·
eistent in itself, we would ask for the present only, if the counter
action depends merely on the vital power, how can it.be explained
or proved, that their reaction is more energetic in the diseased than
in the healthy state, and that the spreading of any re-or-counter-
ac&ion, be it by association or antagonism of the different systems
Dig1t1zed by Coogle
and organs of the living body, always extends in the former more
than in the latter 1 This may be the case in a few instances of
hypermsthesia, but certainly not in aruesthesia or paralysis, and in
the former always only with regard to the extent, and not to the
intensive energy of the .vital reaction ; it appears more consistent
with reaeon and sound physiological principles, to say, that the
increase of intensive vital energy precludes all disorders and d~­
eases rather than promotes them. We are well aware that Hah-
nemann in his religious duplicity, utters also frequently, and almost
in the same breath, the most blasphemous and pious suggestions,
saying in many passages of his writings, and even in the preface
to his Organon, what no man of common sense has ever venturt>.d
to ptonounce, viz. that '' the vital powers are the most helpless,
"most undesigning, most stupid, generally unbeneficial and inju-
" rious, and only instinctive," altho~1gh in some othersections of his
Organon and other works, he graciously compliments nature by
leaving her some insignificant share in his all-curing method.
But believing in our humble devoutness, that lhe vital powers in
organized bodies, which form only a part of the universal powers
of nature, are the most accomplished, most energetic and most
beneficial, and perfectly worthy of the infinite wisdom and mercy
of their eternal and omnipotent Creator, we are forced to admit
also, that if these powers were possibly less restricted, and there-
fore more intensively energetic in any diseased state than in a
healthy one-a proposition contrary to common sense-they would
of themselveS be quite sufficient to remove all diseases in the quick-
est and safest manner, without any medical aid, which would then
beentirely useless or rather detrimental. The effect of substances
commonly used by healthy persons, which the author of the
"Concise View," calls in the sense of homreopathia, (page 26,)
"endowed with peculiarly active properties, as well as medicines
"properly so called, &.c., sueh as coffee, tobacco, saffron, all spirit-
" uous drinks," proves also the inconsistency of the assertion, that
medicines do not produce in healthy persons a counter-or after-
operation, since this must be true also respecting the named sub-
stances; which, ofcourse, would be absurd. To say nothing ofthe
effect, palpable to every body, if a glass of madeira be given to a
healthy infant, will it not produce a very serious counteraction, by
which a series of after-actions will begin 11nd continue, te~minating
probably in apoplexy, unless proper aid be quickly administered?
9
Digitized by GoogIe
' I
66
The same will be the ease with a strong dose of any suflleiently
powerful drug, when taken by a healthy adult. Dr; Hering ad-
mits the baneful in1luence of spirituous liquors when used habitu-
ally. Does not this prove the protracted counter-and after-operation
of substances termed by him medicinal, if applied to the healthy
body 1 How could the repeated abuse of brandy become 10 ex-
cessively detrimental to the physical and mental condition of mu,
if its effects were ,only immed~te and not pretracted by &DJ
coubter-or after·aperation, and herefore immediately extinct
after it is taken 1 Is habit any thing but the gradually diminished
and shortened counter-and after-action consecutory to a certain
and suft\ciently repeated external influence upon the living body1
A person who gives himself up to drunkenness, this horrible an•
worse than: brutal passion, begins by satisfying his taste with a
small quantity, but he is compelled to increase it gradually, not as
some recent authors assert, simply from a morbid irri&ability of the
stomach or a distemper of its nerves, but mostly rather from the
contrary cause, viz. from the physical insensibility of. the nenou
system, or from his reckless inclination to ~blunt, by this dee-
structive stimulus, the moral feelings and thoughts on one side,
and to animate the wrong ones on the other. Without the counter-
action and after-operation of all the systems, particularly of the
nenous system, and ofits animal and spiritual head-quarters, such
a wretched person would be obliged to drink incessantly, and evea
then would hardly attain his abject purpose.
The same remarks apply to all idiosyncrasies which, contrary ·
to Habnemann, ·are valued so highly by Dr. Hering, (l. c. page
25.) Hahnemann, in opposition to the daily experience of others,
and also in contradiction to his own statement, on page 205 of his
Organon, where he admits that all per10ns are not affected in the
same manner by drugs, says explicitlyon pages 197 and 198 of
the same work : " by idiosyncrasy a proper condition of the
"body is understood, in consequenceof which there is in the same,
" although considered healthy, an inclination to become more or
" less morbidly affected by certain things, which produce no im-
" pression or change in all other persons. But this defect of im-
" pression in all persons is merely imaginary," and on pages 121
and 122, §26, be says, "The physical and moral powers, whieb
" are termed morbid influences, do not posse8\ uneonditk,naUy
'the power of derangirrg health, but we only fall siek under
o;g;~;~ed by Google
67
"their ioiaenee, when our organism is SWJCeptible of the action of
'(morbi6e cauteS and beeomee affected, changed, distempered, and
"transmuted into abnormal eensat»ns and actions by them ;-
"those powerstherefore do not cause diseaees in all men, nor in the
"same man at all periods, &e.," and in ; 21. "But the case is far
"different with the artificial causes of diseases: termed drugs. In
" fact, every real medicine acts at any time, under all circum-
" stances, upon ,tn1et'1/ living individual, and excites in him i&a
"peculiar symptems, (perceptible if the dose is large enough,) eo
"tPt, it is e•ident that each living human orgnnism must at
''all times, and abaolutely (unconditionally) become affected and
"almost. infected by the drug-disease, which as I ha'\le already
'"es:plaioed, is not the case with natural diseases."" The technical
term, idioayncrasy, may be explained more clearly by the disposition
1o become affected, by one or more certain agents, in a manner
difficult to be subdued by habit, and unusual to the species to
which an animal, or to the class to which a person belongs. It
may depead upon the reaction of OM or more systems, ~r merely
of a single organ or part, and may be attributed to the peculiar
atructuN or specific chemical relation of the system or organ af·
fected, particulady of the nervous system, by which probably the
vital electro-chemical (magnetieal) process or that ofvital attraction
and repulsion, termed also (physical) sympathy and antipathy, is
abnormally altered. Such an idiosyncrasy may exist with regard to
common substances, as well as with unusual ones or drugs; not only
• TIHt indulgent reader will on anattentive perusal consider the whole of this quota-
tion, like most ofthe quotations from Hahnemann, as unintelligible and their single in-
telligible words and expreeaioM as bombastic cant. We can however aasure him, that
they are not intentionally selected, and rather chosen by chance from similar ones to
te"e ••r objection•; we have taken also the greatest pains to translate all these
q_uotationa faithfully, and have even frequently consulted the French translation of the
Organon, to render them as intelligible as poasible ; but of course no faithful
&riMiator ought to substituteeense for the original nonsense, (as is frequently done in
the incorrect French tranalstion,) even if be were more partial or indulgent for the
great mass of nonaense contained in the worka of Hahnemann and his followers, than
we pretend to be. Poasening only the 4th edition of Hahnemann's Organon, we are
ob~ to rely for some of our quotations on those older editions cited by Dr. Kopp,
in h11 work already mentioned, who by his acknowledged respect and partiality for
Hshnemann and his doctrines, will certainly have anxiously avoided all false quota·
tioll8. Even where the sense of a quotation is too plain to be misunderstood, tile
&oatic hoiDCilOpathista may charge as with an erroneous or falae interpretation ; these
linea however, are not written for them, but for the benefit of the profession and the
public, and we must leave such ch~trges to be finally decided by the competent and
Impartial critic. Fertunately, our library affords us valuable means, tu prove incontro-
ftrtibly the correctneas of some of our assertions belonging to the history ofhomceo-
pathia, and the biography of ita author, which at least to our knowledge have hitherto
been neglected by his opposers. We shall be much pleased to show these printer!
documente to every one who wishee to see them. ·
Digitized by·Google
68
in health, but also in diseases ; and this in such a manner that a
person, possessed of a certain idiosyncrasy when in health, may
lose it when sick, and vice versa; no one himself, and much less
another person, can be aware of this peculiar disposition until he
has observed it. Many of the healthy individuals on whom Hah-
nemann has made his experiments with drugs may have had such
an idiosyncrasy, by which the result was varied without knowing'
it, and this must have led him to great mistakes in practice, al-
though if all the individuals in question should have been quite
free from such an idiosyncrasy, the homreopathist with all,his
"careful attention to minutim" will frequently meet with the same
difficulties in patients possessing such an anomaly not known be·
fore. It would therefore at least be indispensable for homreopa.-
thists, unless they claim prophesy, to have minutely tried the
effects of all their drug-atoms upon their patients, previous to their
falling sick, and they ought not to employ any remedy with pa-
tients, who Wf:re strangers to them before. _ But this difficulty is
not removed even by an intimate acquaintance with persons when
in health, since, as stated above, it does not follow that the same
particular disposition continues when sick.-It might justly be
objected, that these difficulties are not peculiar to homreopatbia,
but affect also the allopathic treatment very much, and a judicious
physician is well aware of the important influence of many idi~yn­
crasies .upon a rational treatment. The difference however be-
tween these two is, that _the homreopathist, infallible in his own
opinion, will suppose, after he has ordered his patient to smell of a
sugar-pellet every month or less frequently, that the increase of the
disease is only the salutary counter-or after-action, produced by his
magical sugar-pellet ; and the patient must quietly endure this as
the sign of his infallible cure, since, even if he becomes a great
deal worse, this must be ascribed, instrict obedience to the dictates
of Hahnemann, (see Organon, 9 152,) to the beneficial effect of the
drug, rather than to the influence of idiosyncrasy or to any other
cause; whereas the allopathist, judiciously considering that no
substance whatever acts absolutely and unconditionally, that many
influences frequently alter the general effect of medicines, that
-some unexpected idiosyncrasy may prevail, &c., all of which are
known to him by his experience or literary acquirements, will soon
observe his mistake, and remedy it in time by anotber careful
Digitized by GoogIe
69
selection,. until he has overcome such extraordinary obstacles."
Exclusive of idiosyncrasy, the mind and body of the diseased
individual, generally differs from what they were, in a healthy
state ; .all his feelings, thoughts and resoh1tions are mpre or less
altered, I'JO that physicians e-ven, when sick themselves, are liable
to many errors, and are therefore forced to call in the aid of a col-
league. Pleasures to which we are accustomed when in health,
sueh as the use of wine, coffee, segars, &e., generally grow dis-
gusting to us when sick. This peculiarity extends even to those
changes of the human body: which are established upon the fun-
damental laws of organized bodies, and which should therefore not
be considered as diseased conditions; pregnancy, for instance, if
even otherwise quite normal, frequently causes great changes in
the physical actions of certain substances, so that healthy females
in this situation are unable to bear, what in other situations affords
them peculiar comfort ; to say nothing of their singular and often
irresistible propensities and other mental affections, frequently aris-
ing from want of a good education and from popular prejudices..
All experiments with drugs upon healthy persons must further
appear · very delusive, if we consider the constant inftt1ence of
the mind and the nervous excitement generally attending such
experiments. When a healthy or sick person is attentively ex-
*We were recently amused with a curious but true narrative, ebowin~ the obsti-
nate and implicit faith of homreopathists in the teQets and dictates of their doctrine,
which was told to us by a professional man, to whom the patient afterwards applied.
In a large American city, a German merchant excessively enraptured with homreopa-
thia, and forcing this " great treasure" upon his fellow-citizens by his constant obtru-
sive solicitatiGns, ind11ced a man, suffering from giddiness, 10 apply to his easy"and-
qoick-curing bomreopathic doctor. As the patient grew daily worse after swallowing
or smelling, we do not know exactly, a few atoms of some developed antipsoric
"drug-virtue," he complained to the doctor, and was consoled with the assurance
that this was the intended effect of the drug, being its "salutary counter-operation."
After continuing the old, or some new developed drug-virtue for several weeks, the
indisposition increased, the ~;iddiness, which before intermitted for hours or daya,
became constant, and the patient, on going down stairs, fell, and was near breaking
his neck. The patient remonstrated with the all-curing doctor, and on telling him
that he had almost broken his neck, tile doctor jumped up joyfully, and cheerfully
laughing, exclaimed, " Ob! excellent! delightful! that is just the salu'tary after-
" operation for which I so much wished! now you must believe yourself completely
" cured!" The indignant patient, fearing a still more deTeloped, similar after-ope-
ration, abandoned tliis frothy simpleton, applied to 'be allopatbtc physician mentioned
above, and was soon cured of his giddiness by rational treatment.-Thi.s mode of
saying to patients who feel no relief, or even feel worse, " you are mistaken, you
" must not only feel much alleviated, bot must now consider yourself complett;lY
" cured," is very common with homreopathic practitioners: it does not always anse
from intentional imposition, or from this modern mode of quackery, but may freq~ently
be uc:ribed only to the very characteristics of all honest fanatics, who, unconsciOusly
blind to the light of truth, would make the whole world so, if they could,.even by
willingly sacrificing all that is dearest to them.
Digitized by Google
\
70
amining hit own pulse, or the aperture of his own pupil, they oft.en
ehange from one moment to another, very remarkably, merely in
eonsequence of the induence of the mind. Should the person be
eonscious of having taken a medicine for experiment, and of being
watched attentively for its effects, he will undoubtedly present
many symptoms which do not depend the least on the drug, but
which are produced only by his mental excitement. This must
be still more the cue when he is already familiar with the ex-
pected symptoms, and therefore prepossessed, or even much inter-
~ in the result, by ambition, by scientific zeal, or by a similar
~UBe. It is therefore not surprising that experiments, with the
same drugs, minutely instituted on healthy persons, by qthers
with less prejudice and with more caution against error, as for
instance, those instituted by Professor Joerg at Leipzig, with his
etudents, have led to results, which, though likewise totally at
variance with all experience of their effect in diseases, are very
different from those of Hahnemann, who anxious to multiply the
morbid drug-symptoms produced by his experiments, has in-
creased these symptoms to an enormous number : for instance,
those of bark: which already amount to 1,143, (see Hahnemann's
Reine Arzneymittellehre, or Materia Medica, VoL III.,) and which
will increase still more at pleasure, with the continuance of
such delusive experiments.* Fortis imaginatio generat casum.
Let one drop of water, coloured by any indifferent admixture, be
administered to a person, especially ifdisposed to mental excitement,
with the understanding that it is an active drug, which will pro-
duce numerous definite symptoms, all of which are to be minutely
written down, by a close cross-examinator, and it is more than
probable, that be will feel all the presumed effects and many more.
How much prudent precaution must every circumspective physi-
cian take, not to be imposed on or misled by stories of his patients,
mostly involuntarily arising only from their physical imd mental
excitements. Physicians, frequently prepossessed by a professional
hobby, be it that they consider all diseases as inflammatory, venous.
*It appeal'8 that Hahnemann sometimes is duped in return by hia diaciples. We
are at least told by a trustworthy young phnician, aow in this country, who after be
had finiahed his studies in Frsnce and Germany, bad lived for some months with
Habnemann, chieftJ to become acquainted with his mode of treatment, that he wu
frequently induced by his fellow-students to follow their example, and make to Hab-
neanann fictitious statements about the drug-symptoms, after new trials with eucb
drugs as be made them take. Hahnemann appeared confidently to belieYe the most
absurd and ridiculous reports, and wrote them down with great satisfaction, probably
for a new work, or for the next edition of one of his old "gigantic" works.
Digitized by Google
71
nervous, gastric, &c., or as arising from morbid affectiooe of the
heart, liver, &e., or from syphilis, itch, cl,c., must therefore be par-
ticularly cautious, not to elicit, by their cross-examinations, fals8
statements from their patients.
In viewing theoretically these experiments with different dfug•
on healthy persons, in· order to ascertain effects correeponding
to the symptoms ofdifferent di~, it would appear strange, and
contrary to all former experiments, if they should ever lead to a-
tisfaet.ory results. .
Health must be considered as that state in which the individual
fulfils with intensive and extensive vital energy, its destination in
respect to its natural species, to its age, and to the circumstance8
in which it lives, and must necessarily be accompanied by eo~
fortable physical and mental feelings, as the natural oonsequenee8
of the perfectly harmonious actions of all the integrant parts ccm-
stituting the individual whole. Whenever this harmony ie m.
turbed to such a degree that this destination eannot be performed.
or that his feelings become uncomfortable, a more or less con-
siderable diseased state exists. Wemay justly suppoee tbe manifes-
tation of all life, and of course alao of both those states oforganized
beings in general, to be the product of two factors-one founded
on the innate capacity to become affected by, and to react upon
the agents external to the living body, and thus to preserve~
particular characteristics of their individual life, (physical eg0;
tism, or subjective condition of life); the other originating from
the action of the external agents themselves, (objective conditione
of life) which instigat~ and entertain the action of the former, but
are contemporaneously so restricted and modified by the same, that
those agents lose, to a certain degree, their properties usually ob-
&eJ;Vable in physical nature, and also a part of those which may be
conaidered as peculiar to the whole species to which the individual
belongs. Thus ulorie, electricity, poisons, &c. lose not only a
part of their physical properties in all living bodies, but also pecu-
liarly in every single individual, though often in so slight a degree
that we cannot perceiveit; facts which have made hitherto all exact
definitions of the term poison impossible. All attempts to explain
life in another manner might appear either inconsistent with OW'
intellect and experience, or will contain the same sense expressed
in different words ; since thereby we can best explain the physical
dualism prevalent in all the actions of nature, and its exc.iootioa
Digitized by GoogIe
72
by commutation into a I bird, both uniting together, viz., absolute
self-action of two opposite powen~, and I heir mutual restriction, in
order to form a third action resulting from them.-lt follows, bow-
ever, therefrom, that the healthy and diseased states are 80 far
identical, that both are s~bject to the same general laws of orga-
nized living bodies, and that in bo&.b states the individual is equally
liable to the loss of his life by agents absolutely destructive; but,
nevertheless, the difference betweea both states is very prominent
to a certain degree; for instance, poisons acting dynamieaUy,
are often used as antidotes with decided benefit in doses capable
of destroying the life of the same individual when healthy ; a fact
which induced the intelligent Greek, with all the richness of his
language, to use one and the same term for poisonsand medicines.
It naturally follows from the conditions of life in health and disease
just mentioned, that nothing in the world can act unconditionally
upon the living body, not even those agents which destroy life,
since it is probable tbat, however unconditional the final fatal re-
sults ofsuch deleterious agents may appear to us, they must never-
theless be regarded as a compound product of the agent itself, and
of the state of the living body, at the moment the former acted.
The same portion of a strong poison, for instance, does not kill aU
individuals equally quick, nor in exactly the same manner. We
may allude not only to the differences in the decomposition of
dead bodies varying in proportion to the absolute strength of the
destructive agent; for instance, 80 far we know the equally quick
decomposition of aU animals killed by lightning, &e. ; but, where
the agent was in itself less destructive, and all the circumstances
alike, the time and deg1ee of the decOmposition differ according to
the difference of the vital energy which existed before death.
Thus the fatal disease being precisely the same, the corpses of
I
children are generally decon1posed less quickly than those of adults,
probably because the vital reproductive power being much more
lively in them, it cannot be reduced, during life, so quickly as in
adults, and because their mental capacities are less developed; as ge-
nerally the~tion ofthemind inadults exhausts the vital powers aud
hence the cor)>des ofsome lunatics also decompose less quickly. One
and the same cause may therefore produce the most different diseases
and their sym.ptoms, according to the different states of the indivi-
dual upon whom it operated. Every one will admit. that to-day
we escape unhurt from those agents which to-morrow may make us
Digitized by G.
oogle
73
dangerously iU. Intemperance in food and drink, cold, passions,
kc., will oocasion, in a number of persons, either none or the most
cli8'erent. diseases, and ofcourse also their different symptoms, and
it is rare for one cause to produce uniformly the same disease.
Habnemaon, weD aware ofthese facts; acknowledged by common
eeoae and daily experience, was forced to the greatest absurdity
Mer committed by man, in claiming for hi8 drugs and for hu ex-
periments an uneonditional operation; Had this not been the
cue, be would have indirectly admitted, that aU his fortunate
oarea might be ascribed, not to his atoms, but to a strict diet, mental
eacitement, or other causes ; he would have indirectly admitted,
that a great many, if not all diseases, presenting, of coo..,, dif-
fereot symptoms, might be cured altogether by one and the Mme
drug, and that his whole materia .medica might be reduced to a
few, or even w one medicine. Thus, if be bad admitted that te.ble-
aalt and 8int, as well as causticum and calcaria, did not aet un-
cooditiooally, but that each of them, from different circumstante~,
aight produce different symptoms in healthy persons, as be solely
referred to their limilarity in natural diseases, he might have sub-
atitu&edoneofthesefourfor each ofthe others, and thus, perhaps, alao
ooe for aU his other drugs. The quackery of his whole doctrine
would have been more evident, as he must then recommend for all
diee8ses, on account of the frequent similarity oftheir symptoms, a
panacea,orone universal remedy, which,being a simple drug, would
have been credited by no one. He was forced, for these simple rea-
eons, to contradict all experience and principles ofthe profession, and
l.o reject even the sma,Uest allopathic doses of drugs, being cunaing
enough to expect the unaYoidable downfall of his whole doctrine
at its drat outset, even in the eyes of the most stupid, if, instead
of his chimerical atoms of drugs, which are absolutely equal to
nothing, the smallest allopathic doses were used ; for instance,
if, instead ofthe common remedi• to cheek vomiting or diarrh<ea,
common doee& of emetics and cathartics should be given in addi-
tion. We may predict therefore also with the greatest proba-
bility that, whenever homceopatbists resolve to exchange their.
fimeiful doses for common ones, as many do already secretly from
hypocrisy, and as all of them will soon be forced to do, especi-
ally in urgent eases, their whole doctrine will cease to exist on
account of its palpable injury.-lt is one of the most satisfactory
experieneee in rational medicine, which alone may be considered
10
•
Digitized by Google
•
74
snfficient to destroy the whole homreopathic doctrine, and to out-'
weigh all the suggestions of Hahnemann, that in some diseases,
where the physiological and pathogenetical relations betweencause
and its effect are more ·clearly understood, and where, at the same
time, the modus operandi of a drug is ~ore fully ascertained, the
drug loses its usual characteristic influence upon the body when in
health, or when affected by a:disease which eitherdid not correspond
from its beginning to the specific quality of the drug, or has ceased
to do so in the successful progress of the treatment. Under sucla
circumstances a drug may, therefore, be administered with the
greatest benefit in dosea a hundred times larger than the same ~
dividual would bear in his healthy state, until that disease is ex-
tinguished, when the drug immediately readopts its detrimental
influence. This is the case, for instance, with mercury in stphilitit
diseases,during which persons, who, when healthy, cannot take one
grain without beingsalivated,may takeitfor a length oftimewithout ·
this effect, until the disease is cured. A similar effect ofthis remedy
we observe also in all genuine inflammatory diseases ofthe mucous
membranes, especially of the respiratory organs, such as croup,
bronchitis, &c., in which the mercury appears onlytooperateagainst
the disease itself, and to neutralize, almost chemically, its cause,
viz., the increased plastic tendency of these membranes, without
any material influence upon the salivary glands, until the disease
begins to subside, when the mercury immediately reassumes its
noxious effect. The same may be said of bark and its prepara-
tions in intermittent fevers, and in other periodical diaeases. In
such cases, if we should conclude, from the effect of the drug ad-
ministered in health, upon its effect in disease, we should be very
much mistaken. It is as inconsistent with reason and with soullfl
pathogenetical conceptious of diseases generally, to suppose that
drugs, administered to a healthy person, would ever produce such
symptoms of diseases, and much lees that the latter themselves re-
semble or correspond to those which are termed natural diseases,
as it would be to believe the same definite product arising from
two factors would continue to be the same, if one factor is changed,
or both disproportionally. Let Hahnemann administer his drugs to
healthy persons by ounces or by atoms; by what other arguments
than his deceitful experiments can he prove that theouncesor atoms
of his drugs contain, qualitate as well as quantitate1 thesame mor-
bific agents as the atmosphere, the soil, &c. offer 1 Admitted evea
Digitized by Google
75
'
the foolish supposition of a qualitative identity or similarity, .must
we not adopt the still greater absurdity, that his ounces or atoms
are far more powerful than all natural agents!miasmata, contagia,
&e. since, with the most noxious intlneneesof the latter, during the
prevalence ofthe most fatalepidemics, thousandsescape,butfromhis
drug-diseases, as he asserts, not one individual can escape, because
they always act absolutely and unconditionally 1 Although this
wiU be explained more fully in, discussing the second maxim of
the homceopathie doctrine, we mention here only, that as all life
is to be considered as a definite product of the two factors, vary-
ing within certain limits in each individual at every moment, and
in every state, but.always under the supposition of the harmonious
action of all the systems and organs when in health, it evidently ·
l'ei!Ults from our objections just mentioned,,that the disturbance
of this definite product or harmonious action by a drug, cannot
admit of any sound conclusion upon the effect of the same drug,.
when the product is already altered by the change of one or both
factors, or more brietly, when the body is sick. Who but an
idiot can imagine, that two different prQduets, the one presenting
the healthy, the other the diseased state, could be changed by any
third factor into two other products, which are.either identical or
dmetrieally opposite to one another; the latter must however be
the ease, when the same dnig which makes the healthy sick, makes
the sickly healthy.
For these palpable reasons, the conclusions respecting the action ·
of a sabstance upon the diseased state from its action in health,
must lea.El to the grossest mistakes; just as if we were to conclude,
from the beneficial influence of the bright day-light on healthy
eyes, that it must be also beneficial in those diseases in which pho-
tophobia is the prominent symptom, and in which the patient
must be anxiously shielded from the li~ht until he is cured by
proper remedies, and even then must be gradually accustomed to
bear it. The experiments with drugs on healthy persons may be
oonsidered in certain· respects, though by far less scientific and
more fanciful, similar to many physiological experiments on living
animals, which also have sometimes led to very falae conclusions,
since tortured nature will present phenomena totally different from
those where nature is left free and undisturbed; just as the pages
of history, stained by the reports of tortured men, prove that this
dit!gracefully barbarous manner of eliciting statements, has murd-
Digitized by Google
76
ered more innocent pel'80ns tbaa it bas brought. guilty ones t.o
punishment.
The first fundamental principle of homreopatbia befere us, if we
dare call it 10, isso intimately connected with thesecond, which may
more properly deserve that term, viz: "similia similibus eurant.w,"
that we must now discuss them together. The objectionsalready
offered will appear to the impartial critic as sufficient, clearly to
prove that, if the result of any experiment with a drug, upon
a healthy individual, admits of no co,rreet cooelusion as to the
salutary effect of the 8ame drug when applied to tke same
individual, in its corresponding natural disease ; all such experi-
ments, instituted with a view to draw practical inferences, in respeet.
to all individuals of one species when similarly affected, must a
~rtiori lead to the greatest errors and miatakes. Such experiments
may be interesting for some physiological and pathological in-
quiries and may lead indirectly to valuable results, by the detection
of speeifie medicinal properties contained in subata.nces, if they are
instituted with a minute knowledge of theoretical and practical
medicine, andwith an unprejudiced mind. The profession would be
thankfully indebted to Hahnemann, for some discoveries ascribed
to him, if be had acted in this manner; but in our opinion, even if
his suggestions and statements in regard to his drug-sickness were
as true, as most of them are false, a safe leading principle for
medical practice never can or will be drawn from them.
The second maxim ofHabnemann's doctrine constitutes homreo-
pathia itself: it asserts by "similia similibus curantur," that all
diseases will be most safely and quickly cured, by minutely regard-
ing the symptoms only, which are presented to the close observer
in each natural disease, and that such simple drugs only, which
produce in healthy persons symploms most similar to the symp-
toms of the natural dieease in question, :will also be not only the
proper but the only medicines for a direct or safe cure. Thus for
instance, calomel if taken by a healthy person will generally pro-
duce salivation, and if oontinued long enough, ulcers on the gums,
in the throat, &c.; homreopathia therefore considers calomel as the
best remedy where such symptoms are observed ; opium produces
in healthy persons drowsiness, stupor, costiveness, &c., it must
therefore be considered as the best remedy.for the cure of diseases
marked by drowsiness, stupor, costiveness, &c. Hahnemann, well
aware that these assertions could not for a moment be supported
~igitized by Google
77
by experiments made with oommon doses of medicioee, becaaee
calomel taken for salivation, or opium fureostivenese, in allopathic
doses, would soon, and not excepting one among many thoueanda,
increase the symptoms and all the dangers of the disease, wi...
therefore, as stated above, forced into the other absurdity, that these
and aU other homc:eopathic drugs are to be applied only in doeea
which cannot be rendered too small by the process of dilutions or
trituration&. The latter forming, however, the third propoeitioo or
maxim of bommopathia, we shall discuss it hereafter.
The medical profession was before Habnemann's doctrine, and
isas yet, generally divided into the following three principal claasee,
DOt to mention their numerous subdivisions: The first dass, or
the mere theorists, explain the nature and proximate cauees of
diseases not arising from external mechanical injury, by general
principles drawn from their knowledge of the universal physical
powers of nature, from the various changes and modifi(".ations pro-
tluced by the different structure and functions of organized living
bodies in general, and particularly by the human body, from
anatomy, physiology, psychology, &c. They are more in favor of
general hypothetical causes and of some mediealsystem, than of
e%perience. In tht'ir pathogeny and therapeutics they refer particu-
larly to the different external influences to which the patient was
exposed before be feU sick, to the general symptoms which the three
systems of the human body, the nervous, the vascular and re-
productive present, to the chemical qualities ofdrugs, &c.,and not to
special symptoms and to the mere empirical adbibition ofmedicines.
They are generally men of distinguished learning and talent, to
whom the theory of medicine owes great improvements, but they
are not practical men; being, by their too lively and too predomi-
nant imaginations, less able to institute minute observations, and to
act with sufficient impartiality and circumspection than to speculate
Tbey are the poets, or at least les beauz e8prit8 of the profession.
The second class, or the mere empirics, despise generally all
theoretical sciences and reasoning. Without reference to causes,
they regard only the symptoms of diseases offered to them by the
palpable functional disorders in the systems, organs and parts of
the human body, and the medicines recommended as the best
specifice for removing the symptoms. Considering all physiologi-
cal and pathogenetical researches as nugatory and use1ess, they
rely principally on the prescriptions oontained in the text-boob on
Digitized by Google
78
ma&eria medica and therapeutics, or on other practical,statementil.
If they, from professional consciousness or from scientific interest,
ar~ not satisfied with the practical knowledge acquired as students,
or by their own experience, but are eager and susceptibleof modem
discoveries, then they are much mor:e fascinated by a new symptom,
and new definite mode of treating a disease, or still more by a new
medicine recommended as a specific, than by the greatest dis-
coveries in physiology and the acutest elucidations in pathogeny
and general! therapeutics. Mostly from want of a thorough pro-
fessioaal education, prepossessed with implicit self-confidence aild
very liberal in their prognosis, and in their promises of quick and
sale cures, they generally.enjoy the confidence of the public; though
in fact, they are the common labourers of the profession. Without
being in favour or conscious of any general principle, their treat-
ment regards particularly the maxim, "cootraria contrariis cu-
rantur," or that the diseases are to be treated by such medicines
as are kaown to operate contrary to the symptoms; for instance if
a person is costive, they prescribe cathartics ; if the pulse of the
patient is full, hard, quick, frequent, and the feverish excitement
predominates, they bleed, leech, &c., even if these symptoms
originate in opposite causes ; or also, they attempt to substitute for
the existing disease, one of minor importance, and they do this
likewise without any judicious reason, and merely from their own
experience, or from statements contained in books ; thus they pre-
scribe powerful cathartics, leeches, blisters, or similar revulsives, to
generate a hremorrhoidal dux, or to cause an artificial exanthema,
when the brain or the lungs appear seriously affected, &c., whether
or not this course is indicated by a circumspective reference to the
true cause, and to particular important circumstances. Hahne-
mann in his elassification calls the latter, more properly, allopa-
thists, and the former of this seoond class, antipathists, from " """'
opposite, and 'll'd~ disease," or also enantiopathists, from " svuwn~
contrary," butas both ofthese belong to our second class, and do not
act similar to, (8!J.Of~) but different from (dAA.ol~) the symptoms of
the disease, they may both be, and are now generally embraced
under the term allopathists, or more correctly allreopathists.
Hahnemann and his followers give the latter name to all
those physicians who are not in favour of homreopnthia, and
therefore, of course, particularly to those belonging to the third
clua, who endeavour to combine the principles and maxims
Digitized by Google
79
of theoretical medicine with the results of faithful observation
and experience. Whenever it appears to their judgment, formed
by a minute knowledge of all professional and collaf,eral
sciences and by their. philosophical investigation, that a definite
cause of the disease may justly be supposed, they do not reilect
much upon the symptoms, but endeavour to remove the cause; bul
, where the existence of such a cause cannot be explained by phy-
siological reasons, they follow the directions whichasound diagnosis,
based on the results of poet mortem examinations, on a minute
symptomatology, &e. assign to them, in accordance with the many
faithful experiences on record. They value general pathogene-
tical and therapeutical principles more than naked experience,
though in regard to the exclusive general modes of treatment, par-
tially propounded in the so called medical systems, they are sceptics
or rather eclectics, convinced that no medical system has stood
or can stand the full test of impartial experience, although most
of them contain, more or less, some valuable truths. They never
lose sight of any thing which could, even distantly, benefit the
profession, but nevertheless they are not indueneed by any autho-
rity, and are anxious to remove even the delusive impressions
of their own fortu!!ate experiences, in order to individuate every
case minutely and without the least preconception. They are the
true artists of the profession and deserve the name of physicians,
in preference to all the others ; though being, from their want o(
implicit self-confidence, and from their contempt of even a refined
ehadatanism, cautious in their prognosis, and incapable of makinc
definite promises of cure, they are seldom deservedly esteemed by
the majority of the public, and enjoy merely the respect and confi-
dence of its well educated and enlightened minority.
Hahnemann, as a homceopathist, belongs, ifto any, most properly
to the lowest rank of the second class, or to the rude empirics, not-
withstanding all the abortive exertions of his followers to elevate his
doetrine to the highest order of rational medicine, and to redect
on themselves all the great respect, admiration and gratitude which
they believe due to him as the eminent reformer in medicine, and
as the greatest benefactor of mankind. The principal difference
between Hahnemann and the empirical aUopathists consists in
his maxim, " aimilia similibus curantur being the reverse of
"theirs, contraria contrariis curantur." Both of them, but Hah-
nemann particularly, are opposed to aU/reasoning about the causes
Digitized by Google
80
of di8888e8, which they consider not only useless but abeurd, be-
lieving that we know notbing about the causes and are therefore
not authorized to form any conjecture or opinion from them.
As Dr. Hering's" Concise View" is very defective with regard to
Hahnemann's exposition of the theory of homreopathia, we are
obliged, respecting this subject, to refer more particularly to Hab-
oemaon~s Organon, and to the different introductory treatises of
his large work, entitled, "Reim .At·zneymittellehre," or Pure Ma-
teria Medica, because its six volumes do not contain, like all worb
on materia medica hitherto known, the physical and medical pro-
perties of drugs and their application in different diseases, but
merely tire results of his experiments on healthy persons with
.about airty simple drugs, many of which are either long since con-
sidered by the profession as obsolete, or were introduced by him. It
.is almost impossible to follow exactly the track of his intellect, ifit
may be called so, on account of the total want of any logical order
and consistency, and the many retractions and contradictions
which we meet with in all his writings.
Hahnemann himself, by giving to his homreopathic doctrine the
'8Ublime name of "nature's law," says, (Organon§; 23 et seq.,)
that he is quite indifferent as to any scientific explanation. The
very name ci homreopathia" and still more his explicit maxim,
4« similia similibus eurantur," suppose however something like a
theory ; and we shall prove by the following extract from his re-
marks upon the infallibility of his" new art of healing," that he
bas some theoretical explanations in view, which; in the eyes of his
.adherents, are con~idered as highly scientific and acute. .
Hahnemann suggests, in different places of his works, and par·
tioularly in his Organon, the following theory of his homreopatbic
pathogeny and therapeutics. The vital powers of the human body
1>ecome, by some accident generally unknown, affected with a na-
tural disease ; upon this affection, the vital powers react auto-
matically, either with a force too little illld insufficient to remove
the disease, or in such a clumsy, violent, and noxious manner, like
the treatment of all allopathic physicians, that the patient must
-either succumb and die, or must bear sufferings, which, taking the
place of the first affection, are generally worse than the original
-disease. Nature, unaided by hom<eopathic remedies, can seldom
effect a cure, and much less can a cure be performed by an ·allo-
pathic treatment, which, iu hundreds of cases, may fortunately
Digitized by Google
81
cure only one patient. As every disease is only a dynamical
distem~r of the vital powers, manifesting itself by sensations and
actions, and therefore discoverable only by our senses; and again,
as this corresponds to the symptoms which are caused by the use
of drugs in healthy persons ; the disease cannot only be cured
by this drug, but the latter, administered in a dose, however small,
or in any degree of dilution, is always stronger, or more powerful
in its action, than the natural disease, and thus the drug always
possesses more power than is necessary to extinguish the disease.
Although the original disease is destroyed by this extinction at
all events, still a certain quantity of a slight drug-sickness always
remains, which may now be left for its total extinction to the vital
power; this secures for the patient a safe, quick and durable recovery.
If we were allowed the comparison, in regard to a subject which,
according to some passages in Hahnemann's work, must be con-
sidered as immaterial, we should say that the surplus quantity
of the drug-sickness always left, after it had extinguished the
natural disease, appears similar to the margin of a spot overreach-
ing by its g{eater size the spot extinguished or covered ; we know
no better expression, since he himself always uses the term "ex-
tinguish.'' We conclude from this suggestion of Hahnemann,
which occurs frequently in his writings and in those of his ad-
herents, that drugs do not act by their matter but by the infinite
power or virtue developed from them; that this power must always
be considered paramount to the power ofthe disease, and that it is
impossible to give too small a dose of any drug, since the margin
left by the covering drug could easily be too large to be extinguished
by the impotent vital power, without which a recovery appears to
him impossible.
This abstract ofHahuemann's doctrine presents one of_ the innu-
merable inconsistencies with which all his writings abound, and
which cannot be explained,even by admitting the maxim itselfto be
correct and his explanations to be intelligible. In §45 ofhis Organon
he says," Great nature herselfhas for homooopathic instruments to
" cure diseases, as we have seen, the following stationary miasmata,
" viz. : itch, measles and the small-pux, which, as remedies, are
" much more dangerous and terrible, than the disease to be cured
"by th~m, (as small-pox or measles) or which (as the itch) re-
" quire to be destroyed, after having performed their cure;" and
in the next section § 46, be says, " But see what great aJvautage
11
D1g1tized by Google
82
" man has over rude nature's accidental events ! How many thou-
'' sands of hommopathic powers to generate diseases, are at man's
" disposal, to aid his fellow brethren by means of drugs which are
" spread over the whole creation ! In them he posseSiles the power
" of making diseases, as various as the innumerable natural dis-
"eases, conceivable or not, to which he can afford homreopathie
"aid. They are morbid powers, the force of·which is extinct
" after the cure, and which require no other mode to extinguish
" them in turn, like the itch. They are morbid influences; (drugs)
" which the physician can dilute and divide, until they reach the
" very frontier of infinity, and the dose of which he can diminish
" until they are only a little stronger than the similar natural
" disease to be cured by them, so that this unparalleled method
" requires no violent assault on the organism to cure an old chro-
'' nic and obstinate disease, and the transition from a state of the
" greatest sufferings to one of perfect health, so much wished for,
" is easy1 imperceptible, and, nevertheless, often expeditious."
Leaving out of view the palpable nonsense contained in these
lines, and the rude conceptions which, by a tedious study we
might possibly derive, that any thing could adhere to the living
body, as a hat, a cloak, or coloured spot does to a wa11, without
affecting the vital powers so as to be, partly at least, a product of
their own independent action; we may ask, why, according to
these statements, cannot nature alone cure the bodily disease
better, or at least just as well, without the interference of the ho-
mreopathic drug1 If nature is as strong as the drug, then the
application ofthe drug is unnecessary for the removal of the symp-
toms. If nature is stroriger than the drug, then she will, if left
to herself, a fortiori, and much easier than the latter, remove the
whole disease at once, or a part of it immediately, and the remnant
afterwards also ; just as well, as Habnemann states, she can re-
move the remnant surplus of the curing drug·sickness. If the
drug is stronger than the " miserable and automatically acting
vital powers," and the latter only strong enough to extinguish the
surplus always left by the former, as Hahnemann unequivocally
asserts on pp. 16 and 17 of his Organon; then we may ask, why
be does not dilute or triturate his drugs ~:~till more, until it is suf·
ficiently weak or mild, so as not to leave to the miserable vital
powers any remnant to remove 1 He is then not obliged to trust to
the automatically and clumsy acting vital powers such an important
Digitized by Google
task, because the infinitely developed drug-virtues at his disposal
would always enable him to cure his patient in this manner much
more quickly ; for should the dilution be too mild to extinguish
the symptoms and to remove the disease, he would always be at
liberty, and we should think it more advisable, to apply again
another dose of the developed drug-virtue, rather than to risk any
interference of the allopathically and awkwardly acting vital
powers. If Hahnemann considers this work too difficult for his vir-
tues developed from drugs, it is palpable nonsense first to claim for
the latter a power always absolute and unconditional, and to admit
immediately afterwards, that this power is checked by such a trifling
obstacle I How can it be reconciled with common sen!!e, that the
vital powers are too weak and insufficient to remove any natural
disease or its symptoms, be they ever so trifling, without the aid of a
homreopathic drug, and nevertheless are powerful enough to re-
move the remaining part of the drug-sickness which is left after
the natural disease is extinguished ! Can any one comprehend
Lhat a power should be capable of overcoming a large obstacle
and, however, be incapable of removing at the same time a similar
and comparatively much smaller one !-Omne majus continet
in se minus.-Hahnemann despises the living powers of nature so
much, that he thinks them unable, without the aid of his ho-
mreopathic -drug-atoms to contribute any thing to the cure of
disease, and yet thinks them energetic enough to remove the much
stronger disease or symptoms, caused by administering drugs to
healthy persons; the drug-sickness being,as he s.tates, stronger t~an,
though similar to, th~ natural one 1 Is this because the vital powers
are to be considered unimpaired and more energetic in health,
while in disease they are miserable and weak 1 'l'hen it is dif-
ficult to explain the attack of any natural or drug-sickness in
health otherwise than by a kind of surprise, a " ruse de guerre,"
of the natural or drug-sickness. In n healthy person there is,
of course, no symptom to be extinguished, no spot to be cover-
ed, no disease to be cured; when a drug is administered, the
morbid affection is the mere effect of the drug, or the pure unmixed
drug-sickness; this being always stro~ger than the natural dis-
ease, we would ask : how can the vital powers remove from healthy
persons the presumed stronger and absolutely acting power of the
drug after its drug-sickness has become manifest, when they
Digitized by GoogIe
84
cannot resitat or remove any weaker natural disease, if surprised by
it, without homreopathic aid 1 This becomes more evident by the
following explanation: If we call V the vital power, D the power
ofthe drug, and N t.he natural disease; D = N and 0 < V, would
make N < V ; N < D, according to Hahnemann's general
proposition, makes, a fortiori, N < V; but his assertion N > V
in a person attacked with a natural disease, and V > Din the same
person when healthy and a drug is applied, would make, a fortiori,
N > D, contrary to his proposition, or to his cure ofN by D, which
is palpable nonsense. What power removes in healthy persons the
artificially generated drug-sickness1 In what disease does it termi-
nate 1 What benevolent miracle or spirit, of the many at the dis-
posal of the great philosopher, does here rescue the miserable and
wantonly" infected" profeBBiooal martyr from his sufferings which,
as we should think, must continue till he breathes no more, after
such an experiment, if he is not released '1 Hahnemann, to be con-
sistent, must here invoke a deus ex machina, or those unfortunate
persons, whom he has bereaved of their precious health, by sub-
jecting them to his baneful experiments, will not recover, until he
applies another drug as an antidote, which generates another drug-
sickness; but as the same, if not greater, difficulties arise from this
also, by again extinguishing too little, he must again apply to a new
antidote, and so again and again, ad infinitum, without ever at-
taining his desired end. But we find nothing of this mentioned in
his experiments on his healthy disciples and others ; they were, as
it appears, all doing very well, after they had presented, for a short
time, to their great master, the most remarkable mental and OCC!l·
sionally also, some physical symptoms of the artificially produced
drug-sicknesses, though they were forced to swallow doses ofdrugs,
sufficient to make the most healthy and stout person dangerously
ill for months; as we shall soon see. On the contrary we find,
page 213 of the Organon, the following singular suggestion : "Ex-
" perieoce shows, that the organism of the individual trying the
"drugs, becomes, by these repeated attacks upon his healthy
" state, more adroit in repelling all artificial and natural morbid
" nuisances, and grows more hardened against all injury by th~e
" moderate self-experiments with drugs. His health will be less
"exposed to any alteration, and, according to all experience, he
" will get more robust." This also is a new and luminous idea,
which this " great philosopher'' teaches to the world, hitherto so
Digitized by Google
85
short-sighted and ignorant as to believe, that every attack upon
health and every disease injure the constitution more or less,
and that a person will always, in direct proportion to his immunity
from previous diseases, be le.!a subject to new.attacks from morbid
influences. But we see that persons are much more subject to a
relapse of a natural disease, for instance, of intermittent fevers,
coughs, &c., than if they bad never before been affected by them ;
homreopathists,ofcourse,will saythatnatm:aldiseasesare inftict.ed by
the "clumsy and stupid" pbwers of uature, and have not undergone
such a high refinement as " the crude articles" which, by homreo-
pathic manipulations, lose all their original matter, "and are no
"longer possessed oftheir prejudicial character," (see c. v. p. 14).-
How great the hopes of longevity to be attained in this easy man-
ner! Even the poor druggists, who will now soon be ruined men
altogether, (see Dr. Hering's c. v. page 4), would have been saved
by Samuel Hahnemann, if bii! doses of drugs were only a little
less fanciful, since every one would, of course, be anxious to obtain
long life and health so easily.
The opinion hitherto entertained by all men of common sense,
viz: that the surest, safest and shortest way to remove any effect
is to remove its cause, is much ridiculed and despised by Hahne-
mann and hi:! followers; "Cessante causa, cessat etiam effectus.o
has hitherto been considered an axiom by all wise men.-" Felix qui
"rerum potestcognoscere causas."(Virg.)-The "old philosopher''
however," who boldly penetrated into the mysteries ofnature," bas
resolved otherwise, and explains the laws of nature as he under-
stands them.-It is true that in order to substantiate fully the mean
ing of this axiom, we should !.."1UYYIJ the cause. But in m0et cases
we cannot, and we must confess that Providence in His infinite
wisdom and mercy has not thought it beneficial for our happiness
during our present existence, that we should know any thing cer-
tain about the first cause, and many ofits subsequent effects, which
.appear to us only as causes, "non enim nos Deus ista scire sed
"tantummodo uti voluti,"(Cicero de Div.)-To promote our know-
ledge and improve our intellect, we must therefore adopt in all
sciences, not based on mathematical calculations, certain more or
less definite hypotheses which temporally explain best the pheno-
mena in view. Since mankind left the sad period of its infancy,
men endowed with distinguished intellect and with an ardent zeal
for truth, have been no longer satisfied with the mere sensual
Digitized by Google
•
•
86
observation of natural phenomena, but have been anxious to
investigate their causes, in order to deduce therefrom general prin-
ciples, so indispensable to the mental satisfaction and happiness of
man, and to all pursuits of social life. They were soon convinced
that the original causes were and would in most cases always
remain hidden from them, and they were therefore forced to frame
such hypothetical explanations of natural phenomena, as appeared
to them best adapted to comprise all phenomena belonging to one
class, and to deduce therefron1 general fundamental principles for
further investigations. They were well aware that future dis-
coveries and inquiries might unveil their errors and annihilate their
hypotheses and conjectures; but they were also convinced that. the
observation of naked facts, would not only confine their higher
intellectual faculties too narrowly, but expose them also to more
hi\Zl\rd, than if they attempted to find the outlet of the labyrinth,
without the thread of Ariadne. Thus by accurately and impar-
tially observing phenomena and conjecturing their causes, a defi-
!Jite theory or a systematical doctrine was gradually constructed;
that is, the abstract idea of what is common to all the facts~­
longing collectively to one class of phenomena, a(ld under what
circumstances they always or u11ually happen. Had they acted
otherwise, and had they merely encumbered their memory with
innumerable single statements, their experience would have been
useful only in cases exactly similar to, or rather identical with,
those remembered by them; but such an accident might probably
not happen during many centuries, to whatever class the fact in
question belonged; and hence all their knowledge would be en-
tirely useless in every new individual case, if they could nOt refer
to general principles, and if they were forced to abstain from all
hypotheses in regard to general causes. '' Nemo enim alicujus rei
" naturam in ipsa re felicitel' perscrutatur ; sed amplianda est
"inquisitio ad magis communia." (Bacon's Org.)-The value of
any hypothesis, with which even the practical departments of
mathematical sciences cannot dispenee, depends upon the simila-
rity of the whole mass offacts on which the hypothesis is founded,
and upon the consistency as well as the facility with which this by·
pothesis is applicable to similar new facts. All experiencesin regard
to a fact, though instituted \Vith due precaution against delusions
of our senses and against errors of judgment, logical conclusions,
&c., when it does not agree with the hypothesis laid down, materi-
Digitized by Google
87
ally impairs or destroys its validity. In some cases some philoso-
phers approve of one hypothesis, and others of another widely
different ; although both are derived from minute observations of
the same natural phenomena, both are equally acute and practi·
cable, and both egually stand even the test of mathematical calcu·
lations. This is the case, for instance, with the two hypotheses of
light: that of emanation adopted by Newton, and that of vibration
suggested by Euler, which has more advocates at present, in
consequence of the new interesting discoveries made by the late
Frauenhofer, by Brewster and others.-Men who adopt tenets,
prescriptions or results of naked facts, aither self-created and ob-
served, or received with implicit faith from others, without admitting
the value of minute and repeated impartial investigations, or of any
rational theory or hypothesis about the possible causeP, degrade
themselves to the level of common labourers or of credulous fana-
tics.-We have already mentioned the delusions of inferences
superficially drawn from facts, and that this is really the case in
regard to Hahnemann's experiments with drugs on healthy per·
sons. Had such a course as this been pursued with the investiga·
· tions in natural sciences, from their origin to the present age, we
should know but very little or nothing really interesting and useful
in regard to the laws ofnature, the great number ofvaluablefacts not-
withstanding.-Another proofofHahnemaun's total want of sound
reflection, and of his blind adherence to rude empiricism is seen in
his combating with so much passion the unmerited credit given to
him by some of his indulgent opposers, who believed that he has
followed sbme rational principle in adopting the identity of natural
diseases and of those produced by his experiments on healthy
persons. In the introductory discourse to the third volume of his
Pure Materia Medica, he says, amongst other remarks of the same
kind, under the head of "nota bene for my reviewers," the follow-
ing : " Never was the homreopathic doctrine inteuded to cure any
" disease by the same and identical potenz, by which it was gene-
" rated,-this has been minutely explained to my foolish opposers,
"already often enough, but as it appears in vain.-No! it cures
"naturally, only by a medicine never accordant with the cause of
" the disease ;.never by an equal potenz, but only by a medicine
" capable of producing a similar diseased state (8tJ-olo11 «'a8or.) Do
" not these people know even how to distinguish equal, (one and
the same), from similar? Are they altogether homreopathically
Digitized by GoogIe
88
"sick by the same malady of idiotism 1"-Very true! they deserve
this compliment from the great genius, who appears allopatltically
sick of idiotism.-Had Hahnemann only as~~erted that according
to repeated experiments, drugs applied to healthy persons cause cer-
tain morbid alteration~;, manifested by definite symptoms similar to
those caused by unknown natural influences ; and that, therefore, as
the former are removed by certain drugs, the latter will also be cured
by the same; as, for instance, that belladonna produces symptoms
similar to those of scarlatina levigata, and that as the former are
mitigated or C'emoved by acidE~, mercury, or whatever the treatmeut
may be, therefore the latter will be cured by the same remedies."
* We believe that, if medical practice ever derivea any advantage from fair trials
with drugs on heahhy persons, it wiJJ be this. And it appears remarkable that Hah·
aemann, aad particularly his followers, have not distantly thought of this rlain and
reasonable meaning of the expression, "similia similibus curantur," which, if simply
translated, signifies oaty, that diseases which are similar to each other will be cured
lly similar remedies. Rational medicine has hitherto, in some reapects, followed a
similar course in some diseases ; thus it pays no regard to the shape, colour, duration,
extent, &c. ef many chroaic exanthematous diseases, which presentso many varietit>s
and shades; but asks, whether it originates from a syphilitic, scrophulous or other in-
fection c
; and if nGne ef these cauaes can be ascertained, auch remediee are admi-
uistered as preve generally ueful in diseases ofthe reproductive aystem, attended by
chronic cutaneous eruptiona. So too the rational phyaician will prescribe the same
remediea in .,ery dif"eremblenorrh12as, as in phthisia pituitosa, chronic mucous diarr-
ltrea, &.c.; convtcced, by experience, oftheir ealutary effect in one species, he will try
them iu similar ones, without any other recommendation, when no apecial cause is
found to prenil; aince be will reasonably conjecture, from the anatomicalstructure,and
the phya10logical functions of all the mucous membranes, that a remedy, which is
uatoful in one speciea of bleaorrhrea will be so in another, and that in this respect, gleet,
chronic mucous bronchitis, the chronic affections of the large intestines consequent
on cholera, &.c., are similar. Hahnemann's interpretation of similia similibus curan-
tur, would nev~ have occurred to any intelligent man, and much len to an Albertus
Haller. If this great man recommends t~ials with simple drugs on healthy persons,
in saying, in the preface to the Pharmacopreia Helvetica, Basil, 1771, p. 12, " Nempe
" primum in corpore sano rnedela tentanda eat, sine peregrina ulla miscela," he did
so with the same views as those which, mutatis mutondis, led him to institute so
many cruel dissections of living animals: well knowing that these could never be
directly useful to the treatment of diseases, he made them for highly intere~:~ting phy-
siolo~ical purposea, which have largely, though indirectly, comributed to promote
practical medicine. , He likewise recommended trials with simple drugs on healthy
persona, certainly not in the sense of hom12opathia, but merely because he thought,
as does every judicious physician, that if made with care, they may contribute to show
particular effects of many drugs, which may lead indirectly to some results valuable
for the cure of diseases ; as many would try some newly diacovertd plant or other
substance te learn whether it contains wholesome nourishment, or some medical
property which may be successfully used in extraordinary cases, according to the
principle contraria contrariis curantur, or toany otherone : for instance, should auch a
substance, produce costiveness or increase the appetite in healthy rersons; it may
also alleviate or cure a chronic diarrhrea or dyspepsia. The history o medicine proves
~hat the healing art in its infancy baa exclusively followed this mode. No one but
a man partial for extraordinary absurdities would fancy, that the intimate connection
between cause and effect, everywhere confirmed by the laws of the human intellect
and of nature, would be suapended in man, justly considered as the culmination of
nature; and onlyan idiot will recommenda sound whipping with Urtica, (the stinging·
nettle) for a feverish exanthematous diaeaae, called ftobris urticata, (nettle-rash,) on
.account of its greatsimilarity with the appearance of the skinof those whoare whipped
with the fresh plant mentioned! ·
Digitized by Google
89
His doctrine might not have essentially sufkred by such a
theory, but might have appeared to rest at. least upon some rational
connexion between cause and effect; and therefore, if otherwise
not contradicted by minute and impartial experiments stdliciently
repeated, would have appeared less absurd, and perhaps would
have led to some valuable practical results. But what confidence
can any one, not prepossessed by implicit faith in the dictates of
others, .place in a doctrine which teaches, contrary to common
sense and experience, that the similarity between two cases shall
form a leading principle for practice, so as to use the cause of one
effect for destroying another effect., seemingly eimilar in its symp-
toms, but evidently produced by a totally different cause? We see
nothing .of this in nature. Two cubes, spheres, or bodies of
any other shape, and which may consist of very different.
substances, cannot only be geometrically 11imilar, but identical in
all their dimensions ; and nevertheless their reciprocal relations,
or those toward a third body, may vary very much or be diame-
trically opposite; the one, for instance,.may be of glaAS, and the
other of gold. The isomorphical formations of many minerals,
lately demonstrated by Professor Mitscllerlich, at Berlin, prove that
the principal characteristics obvious to our senses in these cases, as
cohesion, colour, crystallization, &c. may be quite identical in two
or more minerals, although chemical analysis proves them to be
widely different from each other, in the absolute as well as relative
condition and proportion of their integral parts. Nature presents
to us, on the other side again, many isomerical substances, in which
tbe chemical analysis can find, neither a qualitative nor a quanti-
tative difference of their constituent parlt!, although their external
characteristics are quite dissimilar. Who would, for instance: judge,
from their external appearance, that a diamond and a piece of
charroal, or graphite, of the same size, are the same in the eye!'! o(
the modern analytical chemist. ; and who but a Newton could have
predicted, from optical reasons, the combustibility of the diamond,
almost. a century before Lavoisier proved it by his experiments!
Many plants, although very similar to each other, according to
the natural and artificial systems of botany, differ widely in their
action on the living animal body, and probably also in their
constituent parts ; as, for instance, the different species of Sola-
num. If therefore the laws of nature are more simple in minerals
lhan in plants, in these more so than in the lower classes of ani-
12
Digitized by Google
90
mats, and so on gradually until we arrive at the most compound
and perfect organization of man, whose existence depends partly
on the .immaterial world of ideas and feelings ; and if, neverthe-
less, in the lowest of this series of bodies and beings, we meet with
an external similarity not corresponding with the real causes of
their true characteristics, by which the certainty of any conclusion,
from their similarity upon their r.ausal identity, could be justified
beforehand : how much less probable must it be, a priori, that the
similarity of symptoms, generally observable under very different
conditions, in man; could admit of any satisfactory conclusion, as
to the similarity or identity of their causes also 1 , Such superficial
and totally unphilosophical conclusions have always led, and will
still lead, if admitted, to the most erroneous conceptions ; which,
in their practical application, must unavoidably impair our own
happiness and that of our fellow-men. Thus we should soon wit-
ness the greatest injustice and foolish mistakes, if ever Lavater's
physiognomical or Gall's cranioscopical observations, should in the
least influence our manner of educating, or our criminal jurispru-
dence, because they rest on true and highly interesting facts, which
however have likewise led to very unphilosophical conclusions.
The symptomatical treatment of diseases has therefore always
been considered by the enlightened profession as very delusive and
uncertain, since different causes may present the same symptoms,
and vice versa; hence it is still adopted principally by the uneducated
and rude empirics, and is used by talented physicians only in urgent
cases, where the previous conditions and influences cannot be mi-
nutely ascertained, and where the causes of alarming symptoms
being unknown, dependance must be placed on the majority of ex-
periences on record, in which definite prescriptions were successfully
applied under certain prevailing symptoms. This mode is seldom
considered by rational physicians as affording more than a tem-
porary reliefi since frequently by removing the aymptoms, the
disease itself is increased by increasing its cause, and by producing
all the great injuries of an indirect treatment. We may justly
assert that the mere symptomatic treatment bas hitherto arrested
the progress of the healing art, and has frequently elevated the
less talented and less learned physician over his better educated
and conscientiou!! colleague in the eyes of the public, as they from
'J>Rrdonable ignorance rely more on the immediate and palliative
temporary relief than on the less showy but preventive and radical
Digitized by Google
91
treatment o( true rational medicine. Thus for instance, in sleep-
lessness and delirium, caused by genuine inflammatory cerebral
irritation, opium will perhaps subdue these prominent and also
alarming symptoms; but unquestionably either the disease itself
will increase to a fatal issue after a short relief, or it will cause,
particularly in children, water in the brain, or a chronic and in-
curable nervous debility, which is often observed after a seeming
recovery bas lasted for weeks or months. Hence a judicious phy-
sician will seldom prescribe such remedies as are only calculated to
subdue a prominent symptom, in cases where there is any hope of
a rational treatment, although t.he palliative method is often desired
by the patient or his relatives, from prejudices originating in the
rude empiricism of many doctors. We may with propriety com-
pare such treatment to that of many intellectual and moral faults,
where concessions made from temporary necessity or other minor
reasons, are also only of temporary avail, and rather promote the
commission of greater wrongs, though the latter would be best
prevented by a cure perhaps more protracted, but radical in render-
ing the individual sensible of his wrong. Empirics unable to con-
jecture the causes of the symptoms, adhere generally to those which
they have learned by heart, and if they accidentally meet with
symptoms which they do not remember, or which are not contained
in theh· text-book~.<, they are at a loss how to begin with the patient.
To this search for symptoms, which must not be confounded with
the indispensable study of rational diagnosis, we owe principally
the anxious desire of the profession to enlarge the yet superabun-
dant stoc_
k uf medicines, since if an empiric accidentally suc-
ceeds in removing a symptom already known, or recently discovered
by him, he at once obtrudes a new remedy on the profession, with
all the emphasis of a highly important discovery ; this ·however
is soon forgotten, as it generally fails in cases seemingly identical.
The mere symptomatic or indirect treatment of diseases is
the cause of all quackery in medicine, as a certain simple or
compound drug is generally recommended from ingorance or low
interest, for a certain number of symptoms termed collectively
by some technical name. And by this also the multitude o,.
our voluminous works on materia medica and special therapeutics
with all their minuteness and with their shining splendour of ex-
tensive learning, very few excepted, have hitherto retained, only
upon a larger scale, all the irrational anJ motlt:y features of similar
Digitized by Google
92
older works, which led the mere emptnc to do more evil than
good to the ma~;s of his patients.-We are well aware that the
symptomatic treatmentofthe homreopathic doctrine is very different
from the one hitherto so termed, since it pretends always to rest
not only on one or more symptoms, but on their minute similarity
with the symptoms of the drug-sickness, and pays no regard to the
name of the disease. Hahnemann's general objections against the
nomenclature of diseases, in many parts of his works, are to some
extent correct, as no individual case of any disease will resemble
exactly the minute description of it, M given in any catalogue or
system of aosology ; but. be is very wrong in asserting that in
this the great mistakes of allopathic medicine principally consist,
and his anxious warnings to his disciples (see Organon § 75)
never to use the customary language of the older schools, in
regard to distinct names, but always to say, "~kind of dropsy, a
kind of typhus fever, &c." are exceedingly puerile and ridiculous.
The descriptions contained in nosological systems, are the abstracts
of many close observations, made by the profession for centuries,
and, ifcorrect, are to be considered similar to the ideal of the artist,
which is likewise the abstract of many individualities, seldom or
never exactly occurring in one person. Both are very valuable,
although the physician in a special case, as well as the artist who
wishes to obtain a true likeness, would never gain the desired end,
without minutely referring to the individual case. It would be
impossible for any systematical nosologist to describe the genera,
species and the innumerable varieties of diseases, on account of
the multifarious combinations of the symptoms. The plan
hitherto followed by them was intended simply to teach this branch
of practical medicine systematically; their works are only glossa-
ries of the profession, by which physicians can speak of its objects
in intelligible and brief terms. Nojudicious physician will consider
the case before him only with regard to the name given in his
nosological text-book, whether the description of it, there presented,
be similar to the case or not; he will always recur to the principles
of physiology, general pathology and therapeutics, the only true
and safe resources of all rational treatment ;• he will use the
* We candidly confess, that among thousands of patients entrusted to our care,
we have seldom been able to name a disease, distinctly corresponding to any nosology
or to its popular name, though patients and their relatives are frequently more anxious
about the name of the disease than about the curP, and the relatives are often bettt>r
satisfied with that physician, whose patient dit>d, provided he had gi.ven to the disease
a name, than with him, whose patient recovered, but who had not named thedisea•e;
Digitized by Google
93
ehortest and mget suitable terms, merely to avoid the tedious and
useless minute description, ·belonging to monographies or to ac-
curate ··accounts of interesting and. complicated rartl CMes. The
contempt of all nosological terminology by Hahnem.ann and his ad-
herents evidently does not promote medical knowledge in the
leaet; it checks the progress of the profession by increasing the dif-
ficulties of scientific discussion, and it makes, of course, no diffe-
rence, if a mistake be made in the diagnosis of an individual case,
whether a name may have been given to it or not. The great
evils which always arise from the abuse of nosological systems may
be regarded as additional proofs, how little advantage can be de-
rived from symptoms, and that the reliance upon the causes or
upon a judiciout~ ~etiology, derived from a minute anamnesis,
offer by far the surest aid to medical practice. It is also true, that
the inconveniencies mentioned, arising from the mere reliance on
symptoms, are not peculiar to the homreopathic maxim, " similia
similibus curantur," but almost in the same degree also to the
opposite maxim, '' contraria contrariis cnrantur," since both refer
only to the relation between symptoms and their appropriate me-
dicines, both avoid all close rational investigation into the causes
of the diseased state, and both neglect the truth, that in the nar-
row compass of our senses, one and the same cause, acting in
different diseases, may produce different symptoms, and one and
the same symptom may arise from different caut~es. If, therefore,
doctors are, therefore, from prudence, seldom at a Joss to give a name.-lndeed, it
seems very remarkable to a physician, who has studied men during his long practical
career, bow utterly ignorant laymen in general are in regard to medicine, althoush
most of them, who would not interfere with the business of the lowest mechantc, ·
profess to know minutely what belonga to the healing art : they will DDt be satisfied
unleas they see signs and wonders elicited by the bold treatment of the doctor. Should
the doctor not prescribe large bleedings, powerful emetics, cathartics, leeches, epis-
pastica, blisters, and similar remedies, the effects of which are palpable, they would
question his talents more, even if the patient recovered, than they would ifhe died, after
every remedy which they knew had been prescribed. In what order the docaor was
pleased to employ the whole apparatus of hie art, is of leu or no consequence, al-
though none of them would be contented with the builder, who would apologise for
his ignorance, in putting at the top of the building what belongs to the foundation, and
vice versa, by poanting out among its ruins, all the integral parts of a durable edifice.
Theusands of human lives would be preserved annually, and many be spared the suf-
ferings arising from bad treatment, if the public would abstain from all interference
with an art, for which the life and assiduous study of many centuries would be too
short, and if, after becoming acquainted with the vast extent of the healing art, and
with the many requisites of ita true and faithful servants, they would rather amply
provide for and msiet upon a thoroughly classical and profeeaional education and
upon rigorous public examinations of their" physicians, before these are intrusted
with the lives and health of so many. Then also, but only then, the profession woald
be elevated to that dignity and enjoy that respect which it so juatly deserves, and
then would h be no more necessary to combat such a superstitious doctrine as homreo-
pathia, because like all rude empiricism and quackery, it could not exist for one day.
Digitized by Google
94
the latter or the maxim termed, "antipathic," or "enanthiopathic,"
by Hahnemano, is declared faJse by him, it follows from this
point of view, that the homreopathic maxim is so likewise. Ab-
stracted from further objections, which we shall endettvour to ex-
plain on arriving at the third maxim of homreopathia, the an-
tipathic maxim might easily be proved to be far more consistent
with the genera] laws of nature and the human intellect particu-
larly, although it is evident that, from its nature, its relative greater
correctness cannot be ascertained by the tests of experiments on
healthy persons. The medical literature of every century, since
the beginning of the healing art, abounds in cases in favour of
the maxim, contraria contrariis curantur; how few in compari-
son with these are the instances quoted by Hahnemann in favour
of his doctrine, from the same sources, which, even if his quotations
were correct, would not be in his favor, and much less now after
he hllB altered and distorted them. Who, inclined to trust on such
important subjects, merely to the majority and validity of autho-
rities, would therefore hesitate for a moment to prefer the antipathic
maxim 1 If Hahnemann was even guilty of being consistent, every
one would allow that he has imprudently furnished to his op-
posers the strongest weapons against himself, by quoting instances
of cures, from the oldest records of the prefession 'down to the
present century : not only because he asserts that the true healing
art has not existed before him, (see Organon, preface) but also
because these cases prove at a glance, that not one wasever treated
·in his manner, if we only reflect on his and their dosea-of drugs,
may one or theother or both be considered,comparatively, immensely
large or small. Who, but an idiot, would consider it an argument,
that the power of the many billionth part of one grain must prove
immensely great,because a drachm ofthe same substance has some-
times shown some similar but much smaller effects, or vice versa1
It would appear, at least, much more prudent for him, to take no
notice of such records, which are otherwise so useless in his eyes,
and to let homreopathia rest on its own intrinsic worth, if he did
not intend to influence the weak-minded by learned quotations.
Hahnemann's singular conceptions of the manner in which
homreopathic drugs act, is so intimately connected with his
maxim about the doses of his simple drugs and their developed
virtues, that we should be more guilty of repetitions than we are
already, in consequence of his multiplied contradictions, if we did
Digitized by Google
95
uot leave a part of this discussion also, until we have arived ai
the third maxim of homreopathia, which comprises all its maxims
together. We feel, however,. obliged to add a few pertinent re-
marks about the maxim, similia similibus.curantur, to vindicate
our assertion, that lhe maxim opposite to his, corresponds ~till more
to the laws of nature ~nd to the human understanding. Hahne-
mann, justly opposed to all corpuscular action of drugs in
the cure of diseases, says, in his introduction to the second vo-
lume of his Materia Medica, on page 13, under the head of
" Spirit of the Homreope,thic Doctrine :"-" But it is evident, that
"medicines, acting in a heterogeneous or allopathic manner, with ,
" the intention to produce other symptoms in a healthy person,
11 than those of the disease to be cured, cannot, .according to the '
"' nature of the subject, be either suitable or salutary, but must
" act in an oblique direction ; otherwise every disease would be
"cured quickly, safely, and durably, by any medicine ever so dif-
" ferent~ which would form a direct contradiction (contradictionem
" in adjecto), because every drug possesses an action different from
" all others, and every disease generates, by the eternal laws of
" nature, a distemper deviating from other similar ones, and this
"would involve the impossibility of a good success, since every
" change can only be produced by its appropriate cause, and not
I
" per quamlibet causam. And thus it is also confirmed by daily
" experience, that the vulgar medical practice of prescribing
" in diseases motley recipes of unknown medicines, produces se-
" veral effects, but, least of all, cure."-Let him, who can, under-
stand this gallimatia ; although faithfully translated, we confess
we cannot !-The only sound inference which may be dr~wn
from this explanation, as well as from the above mentioned mode;
in which we are told that the homreopathic drug extinguishes
the symptoms of the disease, and by this the latter itself, is, that
HahneQlann considering-in other places his virtues deveioped from
drugs a8 acting like infinite beings, spirits, &c., alludes here to the
grossest mechanical notions. It is impossible to comprehend why,
if his propositions were not correct, it m~st follow that a drug
"must act in an oblique manner," and why o~herwise "every
" disease would be quickly, safely and durably cured 1" It would .
appear to follow therefro.m, that he admits, contrary to his whole
doctrine, that two directions are left for the cure of all diseases,
viz., one from before, and another from behind. In foiJowing
Digitized by Google
96
this ridiculous explanations of Hahnemann, we should think it
evident that as any mechanical power, which counteracts another,
can act neither in a direction parallel to the first, nor in the same·
direction behind it, but either in an opposite or in an oblique di-
rection, these last will check the original power according to their
relative degrees; the oblique, however, according to the power
resulting from the two originally counteracting powers, in conse-
quence of the known physical law of the diagonal direction in
the parallellogram of two forces.
Hahnemann extending his reform, or rather his creation of the
genuine healing art most graciously, not only to the whole class of
diseases called bodily, lmt also to those called mental, and alluding
to the latter in many places of his works says, (see Materia Medica,
Vol. JI., page 23,) " •.•• in the same manner the melancholy
" girl would, in her solitude, afterwards be sunk ia still deeper
"affliction, about the death of her friend, if she should have been
"enlivened for a few hours, only palliatively, by a gay party,
4' because this influence was only contrary, enantiopathic." Ac-
cording to this old philosopher, " who boldly penetrates still deeper
" in the mysteries of nature," (see Dr. Hering, I. c. p. 13,) we have
to look also for a great reform in the treatment of all mental affec-
tions, and consistent with his wise inference just quoted and
selected from similar ones, it would not for inetance, be advisable to
console a sorrowful and deeply afflicted lady, who had justsuddenly
lost her beloved husband, by telling her the glad tidings that her
dear and only son, whom she had long considered as dead, had
happily arrived. No! God forbid ! to risk such an allopathic or
rather antipathic mode which might kill her, as such remedies
always do; better to invent, and to tell her some additional great
misfortune ; that will unquestionably console her more and dispel
all danger of a mental derangement ; it will make her feel quite
happy and cheerful, because it is a homreopathieremedy, a simile,
" 0! sancte Apollo qui umbilicum terrarum obtines !"
In order to do summary justice to the homreopathic maxim,
similia similibus curantur, and if possible to sustain its correctness,
we shall advoeate it for a few moments in the sense of its author,
and admit that it may accord with the law of nature, that of
causes and their effects, which are so intimately connected, that one
cannot change without a simultaneous change of the other, and
that therefore as the effects constitute the symptoms, an implicit
Digitized by Google
97
reliance on these symptoms is not only useful~ but quite sufficient
for medical treatment. .It would be reasonable to suppose that the
least cha.nges of the causes must naturally produce corresponding
manges of their effects. Hahnemann in support of this proposi-
tion of his doctri~, concerning the great value of symptoms in
general, could have cited a great many natural phenomena, which
confirrp the·abstract couectness of this proposition. From different
illolltancesofthat kind, we may select from natural pbilaeophy a mo-
dern interesting one, viz. the polarization of light, which has been
so much improved by the ingenious and learned Brewster. It led
to the presumption that there might stHl exist a difference, bow-
ever small, in the proportion of the constituent parts of some sub-
stances, hitherto considered chemically alike ; and indeed minute
chemical analyses, instituted on account o( the difference in the
polarization of light, by these .substances have confirmed it. But if
we consider the immense multitude of organs and P,'fts of the
human body, each of which may present a symptom to the close
observer, independent even of the mental functions, which we
never &baH be able to refer with any probability tQ single organs and
parts; if we re1lect on the immense number of symptoms which
natarally arise by their various c~mbinations, as depending on the
primary and sympathetical affections of all these systems, organs
and pal1s ; could we discern minutely with our imperfect senses
one single case in praxi 1 We answer, no; even if the age of
Methusaleh were granted to the physician and his patient. The
combined actions ofall the parts of the living OOdy, caused by the
constant influence of external agents,. bothof \\·hich are oontinually
varying, would preclude still more the cocrectness of all conclusions
for the next moment, as the appearance of the disease may in all
probability then be again totally 11ltered from what it Watl a few
moments before. No physician can is,olate his patient and perform
experiments upon him, as he would do if investigating a topic
of natural philosophy, &c. The most ample exptlriments of this
kind repeatedly instituted by tile phil~opher with the greatest care
and accuracy, and aided by the numerous modern improvements in
philosophical Instruments, are frequently insufficient to protect him
against errors and mistakes ; how much less then can the physician
whohas to contend with so manyand sogreat obstacles,tely with cer-
tainty on his experiments at the bedside of his patient, without such
ample means at his dispooal ~ With all the hare-brained nonsense
- 13
Digitized by Google
G( Hahnemann, auerting that homceopathic drugs alone act a61...
ltctely and unconditionally, do not common sense and experi-
ence claim also for the immense multitude of agents in all sur-
rounding nature; at least a little fiiOre to excite the same coun-
ter-and-after-actions which be claims for his io6nite atoms1 Are
all men, independent of the differences in their features, stature,
&c., formed so much alike, that we can rely with any certainty
upon symptoms1 Is there not something peculiar in the constru~
tion of the different organs, in their situation, &c., which though
perhaps of no great influence during health, may produce in the
diseased state, symptoms quite different from those established by
the bommopathic symptomatology, if we enn could admit its
correctness 1. And as we never see two men with exactly the same
features, and much less two whose lives are &Uended with similar
incidems, may we not also, a priori~ expeet the same disease in
one person to presentvery different symptoms from those in another;
and that particularly in chronic diseases, many symptoms termed,
from their predominance, pathognomonical, are often observed only
where the local affection is so severe, that the cure is frequently
almost beyond the control of the art? How different and delusive
are the symptoms in the different organic and funCtional diseases
of the heart, as stated by many most distinguished and trustworthy
modern authors! Two great physicians, Burns and Abernethy,
have observed in post mortem examinations the~greatest abnormal
formations in the heart, the one however mostly without the least,
the other almost always with prominent, symptoms during life.
Pe!cussion ef the chest, which was mentioned by Hippocrates, was
again introduced and much improved for practical purposea about
seventy years since, by Auenbrugger, a German, and was carried
to great perfection, by combining immediate with mediate auscul-
tation, by the great French physician, Laennec, and many of
his distinguished countrymen, for the minute diagnosis of the
different deformities and other morbid affections of the heart, the
lungs and other parts. How much have the many symptom•
elicited by all these,valuable experiments, contributed to point out
with certainty the real state of the body during life, or to improve
the treatment of the corresponding diseases 1 Very little to the
one and nothing to the other.•
" Notwithatanding these great improvements in the diagnosis of diseasea of the
cheat, the DUmber of deatbli by pulmonary consumption increases in all the large
Digitized by Google
'Moreover, it would alone require the ci(IBe study of many years,
• very sharp hearing, and a11 uncommonly good memory, in order
to distinguishcorrectly,~by tire etetbOEICOp8, plessimeter, and similar
modern implements, the different sounds of pectoriloquy, egopho-
ny, garguoillement, etc. in tbe -various diseases of the chest; and
when, as is generally tbe case, two or more of these sounds are
combined together, one shade of a sound might prevent the per-
ception of the other, and by rendering the <experiment illusive,
leave the treatment as uncertain as it has been heretofore: nay,
perhaps still more so, since, as we have smnetimes witnessed, phy-
sicians, prejudiced by such a sorutiny, have considered cases as ab-
solutely hopeless, which have aAerwards been cured. Frequently
these highly valuable modes of~nquiryeootribute only to th~ char-
latanism of doctors, who, anxious :to show by them that they are
not behind modern discoveries, -
run about with their stethoscope,
pl~simeter, etc. under their arm, and apply them with a grave
face, as if they could hear the grass grow by them ; and then pro-
nounce -a fatal prognosis,with such an unconditional certainty and
selfcon~denoe, .as ,if they possessed the very means of weighing
minutely dte living powers of nature in their remotest recesses ;
and if the relatives of the patient trust their prophesy and follow
their advice to use nothing but trifling domestic medicines and to
'()espair, it will be also fulfilled.
How frequently is the practitioner misled by symptoms, consi-
dered as pathognomonical, in diseases of the abdomen ; and meets,
in post mortem examinations, with defects and deformities never
anticipated during life.• The same is the case with the many -lis-
eases of the brain, an organ which our sensual age, so poor in ele-
vated conception~ of true philosophy and poetry, and so rich in all
cities of Europe and America to an alarming extent. Thus, in New York, accQrding
to the public reports, the number of such cues has increased, within four years, from
eighteen to npwarde of thirty-six weekly; an inereaeeof a hundred per cent.; whereu
within the same period, the population haa increased, at the most, only teo per cent.
We predict that the ratio will increase still more, as all chronic diseases do, which
depend on a syphilitic, acrophuloas, tubercular, &c. infection, such as cancer, dothi
enteritis, abdominal consumptiun, &c. Hundreds whose lives could have been aned,
will fall victims to th- diteaaee, and particularly to pulmonary consumption, if the
faults in the physical and psychical education, the careleesneu of the public and of the
profe11ion, in regard to ita prevention and treatment, are not remedied; but above all,
tf the murderous mode of dilfueiog the spurioue and contaminated cow-pox should
continue.
• "Suhtilitae natur111 aubtilitatem aeneus et intellectos multia partibus superat."
{F. Bacon's Organon.) In post mortem examinations we have found both lunga very
much diseased, iu eases which presented nosymptoms of pulmonary a1fection during
life, and have read of instances where both kitlneys were totally det~troyed and chang-
ed into large bladders, filled also with sharp-angled calculi, anti yet the urine waa
neither considerably aoppressed nor much changed in character. {See Lebkuechner's
Report, in Med. Correepondenz Bl. d. Wuertemb. Aen:tl. Vereins, 18M, No.7.)
Digitized by Google
){)()
tbe common-plnte results of a fiat and prosaic materialism, trietf
minutely to connect with the functions of tbe human mind and its
various morbid affections ! Would those who, in our time, always
merely rely on the palpable, ever have expected, from the symp-
toms obvious in lunatics, that, in some ofthem, no other deviation
from the healthy state bas been found, but a more or less perpen·
dicular direction of the transverse colon ; a part, as it appears, so
little connected with the functions of the human brain. This re-
mark was first made upwards of seventy years .ago, by Pyl, a dis-
tinguished German author on legal medicine, and has recently beell
·confirmed by the celebrated EsquiroL Many large and interesting
volumes have been written, for almost half a century past, on the
symptoms of the different states ofthe brain after external violence,
in order to ascertain where trepanning is or is not indispensably
required; and yet nearly the same uncertainty prevails with re-
gard to the most contradictory statements of symptoms. We ob-
serve almost daily in8tances recorded in surgical periOdicals, where
trepanning proved fatal, after having been instituted according to
the modern advice, never to neglect it in cases the least doubtful,
whether the skull is much broken, depressed, etc., or not, and we
know cases ofdepression, fractures,&c., much more desperate, which
were cured without any surgical aid, merely by a long continued,
rigorous antiphlogistic treatment.
If such obscurities in respect to symptoms still exist in regard
to the principal organs of the human body, after all the minute
'Observations, at the bedside as well as in post mortem examina-
tion.,s, how much less can we rely on symptoms relating to parts of
less importance or of less intimate connection with the whole body;
how much less can we rely on those symptoms which rest mostly
upon feelings so exceedingly illusive, and still less ihhey are founded
upon novel observations, avowedly made for by far too short a time
for any positive result in such su~ects, and reported by a man so
little trustworthy as Hahnemann has proved himself to be 1 Do
we further. not sometimes observe very remarkable deviations in
nations almost adjacent to each other, which although ofno material
importance for rational medicine, would however be important in
regard to the strictness seemingly required by the bomreopathic
symptomatology 1 Thus, Rosenmueller has found by his many
dissections, in the commencement of the revolutionary war between
France and the Allied Powers, that many individuals of the
western and southern nations of Europe, possess two or more small
Digitized by Google
101
.Mditional spleens, whereas the northern and eastern nations 'have
hut one. So is it also well-known, that the former aremore affected
by one kind of tape-worm, (Trenia lata, Brems.) the northern and
eastern by another (Trenia cucurbitioa.) Ifit be so indispensable for
the never failing homreopathic treatment, (see Organon from §§ 77
to 92,) and Dr. Hering (p. 22, l. c.) to know minutely the external
place of the complaint, whether the symptoms appear on the right
9r left limb, it would seem of much greater importance to know
the abnormal situation and formation of one or more important
organs, which as above stated, are frequently obsened in post
mortem examinations.only, although no symptoms whatever ex-
isted' previously during life. According to the great worth claimed
by homreopathists for their minute symptomatology, how could
they consistently answer for their treatment, if a patient dies and
;presents .to them in a post mortem examination, as many instances
.are on record, the .total defect or a surplus of parts on which de-
pended a considerable portionoftheir symptoms? But with all their
great respect for " trifles and unheard of niceties," the proceedings
-.of the homreopathists, even with regard to symptoms, are so de-
fective and strange that, excepting the immense number of sin-
-gular feelings, it appears almost as if the human body were in
their eyes hollow like a polypus or a volvox globator, offering only
a surfare to the superficial observer. We have at least been unable,
in the vast multitude of their symptoms, which often amount to
upwards ofa thousand for one drug, to discover proper remarks of
the necessity of closely investigating the functions of the res-
piratory, digestive and other highly important organs by minutely
examining their morbid excrementitious matters, the exr.ecto-
rated mucus or pus, the urine, &c., though these signs ar~ ex-
tremely important in the diagnosis of many diseases : thus a
knowledge of the chemical condition of the urine is indispensable,
in order to ascertain in lithiasis, whether phosphate of lime, uric
acid, or what other matter predominates, so as not to increase the
disease from ignorance, instead ofalleviating it. Are not these data,
at least, as valuable as what Dr. Hering thinks impQTtant mi-
nutely to examine "a small wart oflong standing upon the right
" cheek," a " weakneBB ofthe right ankle," or a " proneness of the
" same to frequent sprains," (see I. c. p. 22), &c., or as Hahne-
mann's large catalogue of feelings, many of which are newly
created by him only to satisfy his and his disciples' most extrava-
Dig1t1zed by Coogle
/
102
gant fancy, and which are even to the German often so strange,
that scarcely any one can form a clear conception of them 1 The
homreopatbicalsymptomatology, according to its many and great
requisitet, must be, of course, entirely inapplicable, when the pa-
tient bas only one foot or arm, and those persons crippled in
birth or by accident, are also so unfortunate, as to be excluded,
when sick, from all the " great blessings" of this " new art of
" healing," since hitherto no experiments with drugs have been
instituted with such persons. The high value which bomreopa-
tbists ascribe to the most subtle shades of symptoms, the names
of which require the minutest acquaintance with the G~rman
language, (so~e of Hahnemann's expressions are foreign to this
and to every language,) must render the large collection of drug-
and disease-symptoms comprehensible only by Germans, who
have studied, or rather learned by heart homreopathia for years.
Thus the ridiculous opinion, that a physician can be skilful only
in his own country, and must be considered in a foreign land in-
ferior to a native, may he be ever so superior in professional edu·
cation, talent, experience, &c., is indirectly advocated by homreopa-
thia ; though this opinion is excusable only in a man destitute of
general scientific education, however distinguished he might be as
an editor, poet, &e. For a man of a good general education should
be sufficiently acquainted with the encyclopredical abstract ofall sci-
ences, so as to know also what materially belongs to the medical
profession; he should know even by his common sense, that at least
anatomy, physiology, pathology, &c., must be less national than
other sciences, if he thinks them not altogether the same over the
w}10le globe. The differences ofclimate, the epidemic and endemic
diseases &c. ofa foreign country,must besufficiently known to every
well educated physician, so that he can adapt the rational prin-
ciples of the profession to any case with the same facility in a fo-
reign land as in his native country. Indeed! this opinion, which
we have frequently beard expressed by men of high standing in
different countries, must appear as foolish, as if any body were to
assert that only an American can describe minutely the geogra-
phical, geological, and all similar conditions of his country, because,
besides this singular birth-right, be bas travelled in American steam-
boats, rail-road-cars, &c., and vice versa, that an able American
astronomer or geologist could not claim any minute knowledge of
a foreign distant country, because he was not born there, and did
Digitized·by Google
103
not live there from his infancy. Humphrey Davy says very cor-
rectly, in one of his speeches," science, like that nature to which
" it belongs, is neither limited by time nor space ; it belong• to the
" world, and is of no country and of no age." But homceopathists
may justly be considered as " glebe adscripti," not only on ac-
count of the difficulties mentioned, but on account of the great
diffe.renoes ofclimate,customs, and particularly theabuse ofsubstan-
ces, " classed by him (Hahnemann) among the important remedial
" subetances ;., all of which mus~ necessarily lead the practice of
German homceopathists, in foreign countries, to results very dif-
ferent from the experiments with drugs instituted at Leipzig and
Coetben ; and if they wished to be in any manner consistent,
they should commence a new series of experiments with drugs on
healthy persons, as accurate as those of their master, before they
venture to practise in any foreign country with safety. How, for
instance, can they conscientiously prescribe the virtue developed
from an atom of opium for Turks, and other nations who daily
use very large allopathic doses of it'J How can they administer to
the inhabitants of the Phillippine islands, and other tropical coun-
tries, who are surrounded with forests of cloves, cassia, pepper,
and so many other plan~, constantly impregnating the atmos-
phere with the largest allopathic doses of substances, classed by
them amongst the most important remedial agents 1 What effect
can be well expected if a native of these regions should smell in
a severe malady on " a sugar-pellet not larger than'a hemp-seed,"
and moistened with an infinite part of a grain of such an " im-
" portant remedial substance,., of which he bas inhaled large
quantities, at least thirty times every minute, during, perhaps, up-
wards of sixty years 'J Homceopathists, faithful to Hahnemann's
cunning advice, (see Chron. Dis. Vol. I. p. 200), to avoid under-
taking the treatment of patients, who have been previously
marred by an allopatbist, must consistently renounce all practice,
where 11 the miserable, clumsy, and automatically acting nature,"
has been the murderous allopathist. Unfortunate nations ! In re-
turn for the great and extensive blessings which nature bas hitherto
bestowed upon the inhabitants ofthe tropics, they are at present vi-
sitedby twosevere adversities; their valuable propertywill henceforth
be entirely worthless, since in future, instead ofmanyIndiameo,an-
nually arriving, with their valuable cargoes of drugs and spices, the
smallest vessel once very century will be fully sufficient to provide
Digitized by Google
J04
an Europe and America with the requisite quantity of these drup
and "important remedial substances," and in addition, these un-
fortunate people are unqualified for all the benefits of "the great
"discovery, which with blessings on its wings, reached to every
"quarter of the earth."" The best adrice which we can give them
from true commiseration is, to join with the many ruined drug-
gists, apothecaries and obstinate allopathists of all other sections of
the globe, and to migrate to "Egypt the land of monsters," or
to the " sanguinary gold-coast," in order to partake at least there of
the great blessings of homreopathia, if they are willing to believe
the cheerful reports of the respected author of the "C6ncise View,"
on page 18.
The great veneration paid by all the homreopathists to their
: 1 illustrious" master, may be pardonable, particularly when they
consider themselves the blessed apostles of him, with whom the
healing art has "dawned" and has continued "brilliantly" to
shine, like summer's brightest mid-day. Let them continue to say
to the American people, " no error is possible," :I injury cannot
" indeed result from a false selection." Let them tell also that the
very existence of the human understanding has begun with
Samuel Hahnemann, and that since his di:lcovery all premature
death by disease, would have ceased to afflict man, if the allopa-
thic murderers were less obstinate. How many allowances have
mankind been forced to make to infatuated fanatics in every cen-
tury ! But after disparaging all other medicine, all learning and
experience, let them not wantonly destroy also the last remnant of
• To prove that our sympathy for those unfortunate naLions is not visionary, we will
state, that on reproaching homreopathists for their failures in different cases, cont~
dieting their bold assertions to cure all diseases so easily, safely and quickly, aome of
themanswered for their defence: that inlarge, and espe.:ially in commercial cities, their
treatment 6mnetimea fails, on account of the many "remedial inft!U11cea," diffoeed in
the atmosphere. One of the principal homreopathic remedies, the thorn apple, (Da-
tura stramonium, L.) will consequently be quite ineffectual in cities, like New York
and Philadelphia, where the surrounding country aboundawith that exceedingly poiteo-
ous plant. We always considered it very wrong that this and similar poiaonous plants
should be suffered to grow in abundance near dwellings, as they may frequently be
nry injurious, particularly to children. But now we have still greater reaaon to call
the attention of the civil authorities to this nuisance, in order not to •leprive
themselves and their fellow-citizens of the great benefits of homreopathia. The bad
influences of other remedial agents, such as coflee, saffron, capsicum, imported from
abroad, tobacco and even parsley, (vid 26, I. c.)-this plant hitherto considered so inno-
cent and wholesome-will cease spontat\eously, as soon as this newly discovered h1w
ofnature shall be acknowledged as indispensable to health, and "the domestic felicity of
growing thousands here ae w~ll liS in Germany," (see Concise View, page 29.) Wby
are not En!Jland, France, and the many other countries also included in this prophecy.
of Dr. Hermg! Are they not also christians1 or by what have they made them~elvelO.
unworthy of the blessings of" the great truth 1"
Digitized by Google
105
the .merits. of the deserving professional men who have existed and
still exist, by such barefaced falsehood .and bold ignorance, as we
read)n the following remarks, made by the author of the 'iConcise
View," in the idiom of his party, (on page 22, of his C. V.) "Hah-
" nemann was the first physician who recognized it as indispens-
able in any disease, to regard man as a whole/' Does the learned
Dr. Hering not know, that Empedocles who lived long beforeHq,.;
pocrates, about 24 centuries ago, has considered man aa a whole;
ia his work "on the philosophy of nature," where he states that
love combines the dissimilar and hatred the similar parisofthe four
elements, which are cOntained in the whole body; which remark
is attended to by Aristotle, who himself had such clear conceptions
of man as a whole, that on a nearer comparative analysis of their
respective oonceptions; the author of homreopathia would rather
lose than gain. Does be not know that Hippocrates by his terms:
fild"• esiov, Eillifi'OV, proved the same; that also Aretreu's, Galen, Bel-
mont, Ernestus Stahl, Albertus Haller, like all other real great
reformers of medicine, have oonsidere:d man aa a whole, under the
different expressions of psyche, archaeus, soul,- vital poW'er, sen-
sibility, irritability, &c.* No medical doctrine has ever been so'
• We would recommend tb Dr. Hering arid his homreopatllic brethren the elucJ'i ot"
the history of medicine, particularly the learned and ingenious work of our respected
friend, Professor Hecker of Berlm, whose " Ge8chichte der Heilkuruk,' nach QueUen'
btarbtitet, in two volumes, Berlin, 1822 and 1829," is more pragmatical and concise
than the celebrated work of Professor Curt Sprengel. They would think then with
more modesty ofthemselves, with more respect of the talents and exertions of really
great men, and would also ga'in some useful instruction from the study now considered'
by them as " learned lumber." Lauth in his interesting work, "De I'esprit de l'in-
" struction publique, Strasbourg, 1816," says very co~rectly Qn page 142, "rhidoirt:
"d'unes cience contient l'hi8toire des erreurs de ['esprit humai11; lu Cbnnaitre c'e1t
"po88eder le8 muyena de le~ e'lliter, tandia 'que, par ltur ignorance, chaiju, homme e8t
"expoae ayretomber."-The well educated physician considers not only man, but
also the plan of treatment of every case, as a whole, which therefore in most easel'
is best executed by one; hence, he is reluctant to yield to one of the most erroneous
prejudices of the pnblic in' regardto medical consul!alions. Laymen being generally
Jgnoraut of the philosophical spirit of rational medicine, and of the higher mental re-
quisites of a judicious treatment, consider it as depending only upon the acutene88 of
the external senses and a faithful memory; and hence that six eyeM are naturally able
to see three times as much as two, and that three doctors can remembera symptom and
a useful remedy three times as ~ell as one. These ideas may be correct in regard to
the homreopathists, whose whole talents consist in remembering many thousand symp-
toms, and who by the aid of a brother homreopathist have Jess need of going home
to consult their hom·books, before they prescribe their atoms ; as they gen~rally do,
according to Hahnemann's direction. But in regard to rafional medicine thi1 preju-
dice is of great injury, for the following reasons: the conscientious physician, never
prepossessed by his own learning and talent, will also feel bound from honesty towards
his colleagues, who are charged to act with hi'm harmoniously, riot to alter his treat-
ment without their consent. In urgent cases therefore, many consultations might be
required daily, which cannot be attended by physicians who are engaged inbut a
moderate practice, and the most auspicious moments to relieve ot to save the patient,
by au instantaneous alteration of the piau of treatment adopted before might eaaily be·
14.
Digitized by GoogIe
106
narrow in iUI conceptions, so destitute of all rensonable conjectures,
and has therefore less considered mao as a whole than homreopa-
thia, in regarding the superficial symptomsand delusive feelings of
the patient as the only true lending thread in the dark pathway of
medical practite ; excluding all higher mental faculties, all reason-
ing about the immeo'Se'and constantinfluence of the vast multitude
of the surrounding physical and mental agents'; rejecting all
reference to any cause whate•er, &e. It is true, that the history
of medicine presents, from its ~ginning, a motley list of the most
imaginary and absurd conceptions about the causes of diseases,
and t1ais·will continue to be so, more or less, because probably it was
and will ever remain impossible for any mortal being to know
exactly wbat life really is, and in what it essentially consists; all
conjectures of the proximate caoses of the different diseassed states,
have been and always will remain hypotheticaL "Latent ista om-
rria crassis occultate: et circumfusa tenebris; ut nuDa aeies bumaoi
ingenii t:anta: sit,· qu~ penetrare In crelum, terram intrare possiL-
for enr lott. This will be the c-, el'en where the phyeiciane agree in their 'fie-
and in their profeeeional creed, ae is probably not &be ceee with two out ofa handreJ.
Iflhe profeeeional views of two or more consulting pbysiciaas dift'er, lhe eiluatioa of
the patient ie much woree, ae the treatment then is generally the resuh of a compro-
mise of two or more mostly diametrically opposite opinions, combined from mutual
courtesy or from prudence, neither of them being willing to be responsible for the
reeult ofbie plan, when seriously oppC18ed by tile other. The public, unaware of these
great inconveniences, will from bad customs, ehow or faebion, insiet in proportion to
&heir wealth, upon the consultations of more or lese phyeicians, and will therefore fre-
quently see members of their families dead, or otherwise injured, who if they were
poor and forced to feel eatisfied with the advice of only one good physician, would
have been saved. Tbe more ingenious the proposed two plans of treatment, the lese
probabilityie there of euccees, provided both be followed, or a third mode be formed
from them. Two empiric&, therefore, will agree together better than two rational
phyaiciane of' different schools and practical viewa.-Every work depending upon the
higher functions ofthe human intP.llect, upon conjectural principles, and upon a rational
plan to be· immediately changed according to circumstances which happen, should
always be consid'ered best performed by one; the probability of success in medical
treatment mayjustly be considered ae inverse to the numberofconsulting physicians,
and the true benefit derived' by the patient from medical attendance is generally equal
to the fraction of one divided by tbe number of consu!Ling physiciane. Even the
enore of a physician are obse"ed and remedied by bimselfbetter than by another, and
many successful modes of treatment are frustrated by the frequent change of physi-
cians. Thie remark is intimately connected with a no less important inconsistency,
likewiee arisin~ from want of sound'reflection on the part of the public generally, in re-
regard to med1cine. Many persona have but slight confidence 10 the healing art, and
consider it useless to consult a physician in the beginning of a disease, but they are
aaxioaa for hie aeaistence when they become more seriously all'ected. We should think
that ifthe confidence in the healing art is but small, it should consiatently decreue in
proportion with the difficulties to be removed,so that it must appear more adviaableto
eaU medical aesistence in the begiunning of a di$81\se, when all the morbid proceeaea
are but trilling, and easily removed', than at a later time, when by long duration and
perhaps wrong meaeures, the first cause and its simple effects have been chan~ed into
a aeries of more or lesa complicated and' aggravated morbid processes. A cb1ld may
ehange the course of the largest river at ita •ource, but no human power can alter ita
cunene at a conaiderable distance.
Digitized by Google
107
(Cic. acad. qutUt.) But this d~ not prevent us from comparing
the different manifestations and conditions of man's life with thoee
of other living organized bodies, ~hich we can observe more mi-
nutely, and submit to our experime_1lts; nor from considering the
phenomena and laws ofuniversal nature, and their influence on the .
body in its different states, from which collectively we may conclude
upon tbe state of things in diseases and upon the best means of
remedying them in a manner, which, though not satisfactory to
our unattainable ideal of certainty and perfection, yet fills our
hearts with gratitude to a mere<iful Providence. But being unable to
attain a consummate insightinto the causes, shall we therefor~ desist
from thankfully and ratim).a)Jy using all that the i@nite wiedoPl.
and mercy of our Cre~or h~ granted to our intellect, and offered
to our investigation 1 Thus, ought the natural philesopher tore-
nounce his belief in a power of gravity, and observe only its pheno-
mena, without establishing the said general principle and its
laws, because he cannot and will never see or grasp the power
itself~ SupPQSing e~en that it will soon be found, todepend only
upon a modification of the universal electro-chemical or magnetieal
agent., will not the very nature of this pow~r simply change the
Corm of the great 'mystery, and give rise to many new hypotheses,
however much tbe principle may be simplified 1 Indeed it is ex-
tremely inconsistent and absurd that, while -on one side lwmooo-
pathjsts are more credulous and SQperstitious than ever a class of
men have been, and affect to be so pious and faithful as to consider
the investigation of the causes of natura). phenomena a heavy sin ;
they are on the other side such strict sceptics, as almost to require
laying down before them visibly an<J palpably, the matter of gravity
itself, if it should exist, or !lPY ~jmilar agency ofnature, in the same
manner as they can see .
11-nd grasp "a small wart of long standing
upon the right cheek," and are such infidels as to think their wis-
dom paramount to the vital powers, and to regard these always as
injurious in diseases, if they do not assist them! We may justly
ask Dr. Hering ancl his brethren: who considers man most I!B a
whole, he who is contented simply to observe and writ~ d,own th~
symptoms whi~h are gained from true st!lteroents, Qr wlrlch are
elicited from such defective experiments as we have mentioned,
without any minute raqocinatiop. or any higher intellectual exer-
tion; or he, who notcontent with what is only obvious to his senses,
is anxious to inquire minutely into the probable causes and their
Digitized by Google
I
~
108
.connection with the accurately observed various effects, in order to
~tabl!.sb general principles,·which are. applic~ble to many cases,
without any reference to but seldomly similar, and mostly illusive
symptoms'l Who values man practically more as a whole, the
bomc:eopatbist, who according to his doctrine, believing that the
developed virt~es of drug-atoms are only to be applied with BUCCe88
t.hrough the mouth or the nose, and therefore rejects the use of all
~xternal remedies ; or the rational physician, who considers every
point of ~he living body ~o be endowed with a proportionate and
modified part of the sam,e power, which animates and moves the
whole, so that any appropriate influence upol} the smallest point,
will be distributed over all the systems, organs and parts of the
living individual; and who believes on that account, that a great
many diseases may be radically cured only by the use of external
remedies, or by psychical directions'I Homreopathia with its maxim,
similia similibos curaotur, would therefore justly be the last of all
JDedical doctrines which could pretend with propriety to consider
JOan as a whole, even if all experiments should fully confirm the
~rrectness of the said maxim, much less so however, with its great
deficiencies, delusions, contradictions, inconsistencies nod absur-
~ities.
Adq1itting that Hahnemann has in good fuith adopted his doc-
Jrine, still it appears' that be was misled by many observations
which he claims to have discovered, but which were observed long
J>efore his time : viz. that powerful dr!)gs, applied in a stronger
~ose or for a longer time than is necessary for removing the dis-
~ase, produce symptoms which apparently belong to the subdued
,Jisease itsel~ but which are caused mostly by the surplus of the
given drug; or in ~~ses where the drug was notrequired, and where
the original disease nevertheless disappeared, upon the improper
selection of the drug. lt was, for instance, known long before
llahnemann's first publicaq()n of his doctrine, and it was explicitly
remarked by all eminent authors, that mercury, if used without
sufficient reason, or if continued too long and in too large doses
for syphiijti~ disejlses, frequently produces syQ)ptoms resembling
those of syphilis, and which do not subside, unJil the use of mer-
~ury is suspended and an ppp()site treatment adopted. But it
would ~ertainly be very poor diagnosis·, if a physician should
consider mercurial and syphilitic ulcers as i!)entical ; they are
aimilar to ea~h othert })ut opt ali~e1 as is al$o proved by the sue-
• Digitized by Google
109
ceesful mode of treatment generallyfoDowed b'all judicioas pl'ac-
tkioners : hence the former were termed abo, long before Dune-
mann's doctrine, "mercurial wlcen", (1\lerc•riai-Gesh\nere) and
tbe cqmplex of all the symptoms prodaced by misapplied mercury
was called "mer~rial diseate" (Mercuriai-Krankheit;) this is, mu-
tatis matandis, quite the saDJjt as the term drug-sickDeU used by
Habn~mann, and considered by his infatuated f4lllowers to be u
gigantic a discovery as ifhe bad found the quadratuoe of the cirde.
The 1ame may be said ofotl¥r remedies; if applied io too larp
doses, they will injure alwaysin a direct proportion totheir efficacy,
to their dose, to the age, the constitution, the habit, the idiosyn-
crasy ofthe patient, etc. etc. They could not injure otherwise than
by pro~ucing a dis~sed state, manifested by some symptoms. But
impartial observation wiJI sbow, tha' the drug given in excess,
will rarely produce a state, which originated directiJ frot~~ the spe-
ciiic properties of the given drug, eEpressed by Hahoemann as
drug-sickness (Anney-Krapkheit ;) it will onlycause a bad e4'ect
jn general, depending upon the just named individual conditions,
and ~bservable either by aJ)otber disease totally di4'erent from tbe
former, or by one combjned with a higher or lower degree of the
old disease, or also by a more protracted convalescence. Not
only the drug, but any thing else which the sick person bas im-
properly taken may have these e4'ects, Thus, for instance, of
three apoplectics, one bas eaten too much 1alted bering, and be-
comes violently delirious, another has indulged too much in water
melons, and gets cholera, ancl the *bird was intemperate with
whis~ey, IPld is a4'ected with blood-spitting; nobody perhaps but
an homP!opathist~ would be so fooDsh as to term the first cue Aer-
ring-lic/meiB; the set=ond, fDQter-flleltna-.tclmeu, and the third
tikiBke!J-Iiclmu•, and np one but a homc:eopathist, would recom-
mend to the first a microscopic slice of a herring ; to the second,
that of a water~melon, and to the third, the virtue developed from
wbiskey.-Hahnemann's obse"ations therefore in support of the
homreopathic maxim before us, do not depend upon the cor-
rectness of that maxim, hut upon the natural cousequencea of aU
agents which are·used in excess-omne nimium vertitur in coo-
trariam. A relatively small quantity of wine, opium, etc. for in-
stance, exhilarates, alarger one makes morose and drowsy ; to
quote a common-place occurrence, a carpenter who intends to fu.
Digitized by Google
110
tea a board, loosens it again by using too many nails and striking
too much. Many similar incidents often happen in sickoeu, and
may be explained by considering the hea1thy state as a paralleliam
of two straight lines, and the diseased state as a divergence of the
same, which increasing at every moment of its duration, increua
alao the difficulties in re-establishing the parallelism or health ;
but it is obvious, that a power acting with more force than is re-
quired merely to re-establish the parallelism, will produce a simi-
lar and still larger divergence on the other side, and thus prove
more injurious than beneficial, though it did not depend upon the
wrong quality but upon the disproportionate quantity ofthe force
applied.-Hahnemann is not aware that be himself np1Jifies his
maxim of homreopathia, by very judiciously saying on the third
page ofhis Organon :-" According to common sense the cause of
an) thing can never be the thing itself., We would only add to this
aegative proposition, which aft'ects the old and long unsettled dis-
pute about the identity of the proximate cause of a disease with the
latter itself-the catUe of any effect wiJI much less destroy the
t.fect ofa dissimilar and even not of a similar cause. Common
sense must adopt equal causes for equal effects; the same reasoning
is applicable to two or more effects, reaJiy similar to each other io
most of their single parts and vice versa.-To explain this more
clearly, let us suppose the drug, d, to be the cause, c, of a certain
number of drug-symptoms, s, in beaJthy persons, and let u call X
the unknown cause of the symptoms, S, of the natural disease,
ealled D. If we now meet with these similar symptoms, or S, in
a natural disease, D, it would be contrary to aJI common senseto
eonjecture that d must destroy S, because it has produced s,
which is similar to S ; any one would more reasonably think, that
it must sooner increase S and D belonging to it, because in all
probability if s is quite similar to S, then the unknown cause X
of S and its D, must be also similar to c of s; and as c is said to
destroy absolutely il and its D, it destroys what its similar X always
generates, which is absurd. It is here immaterial whether X,
tbe unknown cause and S or D, its effect (proximate cause and
disease,) are the same or not; the just reproach of Hahnemann,
and of some of his reflecting disciples, that we know nothing cer·
tain about the proximate causes of diseases, does not the least
affect our eonclusions, since by adopting X, we admit that we do
Digitized by Google
HI
not know exacdy t1ae callse, but only a cause. If he on Iris part,
does admit no cause X, then be adopts an edect which has no cause;
if he admits one, then he admits what we have jnst proved to be
absurd.-We see by this dilemma, that even in regard to the simi-
larity cJf symptoOJs; tire bom<eopatbic doctrine is merely seemingly
correct.'-TriJe; Hahnemann says, {Org.: § 7.) "Tile phylieian,
"in his treatment, is aided by data which most probably were the
"catUJe of the acnte disease~ and by the most prominent incidents
"o( th~ whole history ofthe chronic disease, in order to ascertain
"its fU11damet&toJ catue," &c. But who would believe that this his
judicious advice, expressed by him moreover in italics, is retracted
by him in the same work, and on the same page, where he says,
" Is not that which is recognisable by our senses, in the symp-
" toms f1fdiseases, the same with that which is internally existing
'~ and not recognisable in itselO lw not the latter the side unat-
" tainable and unrecognisable by us ;. but the former that side of
" the ~ante dileale; which is evidently and positively recogaisable
" by oul' soaod senses, and given to us by nature as the principal
" object of cure'? Who can·prQ\ie the contrary ? Is it not there-
" fore fooJish to make the invisible, internal state of any disease,
" the state termed prima cama morbi, the object or'cure, but to _
" reject, and haughtily to contemn, the· sensibly and clearly ob-
" servabJe side of the slurre·disease, the symptoms which chiefly
" speak to us as objects oftreatment ?"
And again, 0'11 § 12 of the same work, he says, " Whereas,
" therefore, the retoo'fal of all the recognisable symptoms and in-
" cidents ofthe diseaS'e removes also these changes, on wlaich the
" latter is founded--oF course~ therefore, the totality of the dis-
" ease-it follows, that it is the duty of the physician only to re-
" move the symptoms, in order to erase and.to destroy, at the
" same time, the internal changes ; of course, therefore, tlte total-
" ity ofthe disease, the dilease ttselj."
We leave it to the acuteness of the Impartial critic to select any
sense from this motley phraseology : far instance, how it is pos-
sible to reconcile with common sense, that the symptoms ofa disease
and the latter itself, are absolutely tke BatM, and nevertheless not
tke 1ame; we should think if both are the same,·botk most be also
recognilable, or tmrecognillible, &c. If the critic succeeds,· after
his great exertion, he will observe the grossest tontradictieas ia
Digitized by Google
112
these quotations.-ln regard to the maxim, similia similibus cu-
raotur, Habnemann was c0111istent in his practice only to tbe'
utmost extreme, until a few years ago, when he substituted fOl" it,
his "great trut/u."
The foiJowin~ few interesting specimem muy satisfy the curiosity
of our indulgent reader, and show the ptactital application wbieh
Habnemann bas made of this maxim.
• Jf a man his taken his dinner too bastUy, bas swallowed many
indigestible things, has draak too much spirituous liquors, or lias
eaten some taioted food; in abort, if it be evident that be·bas illjur-
ed his stomach in some such manner before be fell sick, every mlin
of common sense would prescribe a oontrarU.m, Ti&. an emetic, as
the best remedy; the beneficial effects of which are morecwer co&-
firmed by innumerable instances. .Haboemann thinks, ia bis Or-
ganon, (pp. 6 and 7) such a real catual treatment, unaginary
and highly obnoxious, and, instead of the emetic, recommends, as
the best remedy, to nneU of a sugar-pellet; made of starch and
sugar, not larger than a hempseed, aud sl~h&ly moistened with a
/Hgh solution of the juice of PulsatiJla ; tba:t is, at least, with the
_l- part of a grain of the said juice, or a fractiun equal io one,
1000
divided by one with ftxt!J ~er01.
On Org. p. 59, Hahoemann quotes l". H. Lange, au old authOr
on domestic medicine* who has found autmeg salutary in hyster·
ics. This lingle authority is sufficient for him to add, " Ofcourse
" for no other thau the same homreopathic reason ; since, accord-
" ing to F; Schmid and Cullen, it also caused, when given in large
" doses tO" healthy personr1 a fainting ofthe sen1es and a general
" senselessness.'' Tbat any substance, even the most innocent
and wholesome food a:nd drink, when taken to excess, will always
cause,. in pers.ons easily subjected to hysterics, etc. such affections,
and that none but a fool would draw from such a single instance
any conclusion, is no object of consideration to the close-thinking
bomreopathiSls; who, however, find no fault that their master re-
jects, on the other side, all statements confirmed by thousands of
trust-worthy men. This and similar inferences, drawn from d~
mestic substances, by Hahnemann, refute his assertion, on page
53, where he explains, why such large doses of homreopatbically
actittg drugs were found salutary by many authors quoted by him,
Digitized by Google
113
though tbey must have ralher been of great injury. He states,
tbat this may be ascribed to the use of.tbe drugs, by which they
bave lost their efficacy ; or to .thei~ operation as cathartics, by
which they were soon evacuated ; or also to the simultaneous use •
ofdruga, which acted as antidotes to them. The first reason can·
not be true of such substances as nutmeg, and i~ . also a supposi-
tion demanding proof; because every one will 'believe, that,
among all these distinguished men, some at least bave been hO-
nest, and anxioUS to administer to their patients the best drugs
and the best preparations. The second reason refutes his expla-
nation of-the first-and after-operathms, and jfcombined with the
third reason, contradicts the absolute and unconditional salutary
effect of his bomoeopathic drugs.
Ladies, suffering from giddiness or oppression, must not object
if their homoeopathic doctorvisits them smoking a pipe or a cigar; ·•
for, on page 55 of the Organon, Hahnemann proves the salutary
elfectsoftobacco for such indit~positions, by~ onequotation from
Diemerbroek, one ofthe ·greatest physicians in Amsterdam, two
centuries ago, who cured himself from similar affections duriar
an extensive epidemic ; though ptobably t.bis ingenious Dutch-
man did it merely, as many physicians still do in Germany and
Holland on similar occasions, ~cause he found his pipe very piea-
sant and useful for offensive smells, and protective against infection,
to which he was exposed as an able and extensive practitioner.
On page 61 of the same work he asks whether, if any one being
exposed to a cold wet air, take a little bitter-sweet, (Solanum
dulcamara, L.) and catches a severe cold, it is not a proof
that this plant produces the symptoms of a cold, 'lnd must there-
fore also cure colds ? This " great genius, by whose.watckfol
" attetttion to minutire a new era has dawned upon all the natural
" sciences." as Dr. Hering teJls the,Americans, on page 24 of his
Concise View, considers here us a mere nothing the influence of a
cold wet air, which daily experience proves fully ~ufficient for
produeiog a severe cold, a catarrhal or rheumatic fever, and fre-
quently tbe most dangerous acute or chronic diseases. But he
think• the infinite part of this plant, which every body kriows is
quite inoffensive in small allopathic doses, to be so highly in-
jurious, that it is not worth while for .him to mention a cold damp
air, even only as an accessory cause! No wonder, on pp. 246
15
Digitized by Google
•
114
and 247 of his Organon, he suggests explicitly to the homreopa-
tbic physician, not to mind the stories of their patients, relating,
as the cause of their long soft"erings, " a cold acquired long ago,
"(by getting wet all over, or by acold drink after over-heating,) a
" fright, a distortion of a limb, (also " sometimes a bewitching,
" &c."•) " AlJ these things arf!'too trifling to produce, in kealt/f1
"person~, diseases oflong standing,which grow worse from year to
"year, as is the nature of all chronic diseases arising from itch."
Among the great discoveries of Hahnemaon, drawn from " his
exceedingly pure and simple observations," we may name fore-
most his assertion, that ophthalmia, or inflammation ofthe eyes, is
frequently caused by Ro~es. All must fly, therefore, from places
" Where o'er the verdant ground
" Her living carpet nature spreada ;
" Where the green bower, with rrne11 crown'd,
" In showera its fragrant foliage sheds."
Oldauthors mention to us many very singular causeswhich injure
this,.our noblest sense; and Ovid, in his Remed. Amor. lib. 2.
already says,-
" Dum spec:tant oculi lesoe, l&lduntur et ipei,
" Multaque corporibus transitione nocent."
But hitherto nobody was aware of the great risli he runs by
smelling this delightful gift of spring, tbis beautiful flower consi-
dered by all poets as the emblem of innocence ! What reason has
the old philosopher to make such a cruel accusation of our favor-
ite flower, the Rose? Is it the result ofkil Rot" over-.refined" che-
mical analysis, or, at least, of some experiments which, li~e so
many others, he only bas made? No: some obscure old medical
author, who, as a stupid allopathist, deserves of course no credit
for any thing else, bas told him so : but as he says, nobody can
doubt it, principally because rose-water is an old domestic remedy
for inflamed or sore eyes. It could not, however, be so favorite
a remedy in the spirit of the homreopathic maxim, similia simili-
bus cnrantur, unless it produces ophthalmia; ergo, every one
.who smells ofroses will unavoidably have his eyes inflamed.
Ancient authors must have been ignorant of the danger to
* We would advert here to this expression of Hahnemann, by which he ranks
"bewitching" with other important causes, which are, in hi• opinion, erroneously al-
leged by the patient. The discussion about his third maxim will exphun this more
minutely.
Digitized by Google
115
smell of roses ; for Cicero, (in Verrem. II) states, tbat it was cus-
tomary with the kings in Bithynia to fill the cushions oftheir beds
or sofas with roses : and Virgil sings, " Nescio quis teneros oculos
mibi fascinat agnos." It is also an object of curiosity to know,
by what antidote the people in many oriental countries are pro-
tected against ophthalmia, who distil sucb large quantities ofessen-
tial oil of roses, and use it so frequently as a cosmetic. We have
never ,een it mentioned by any traveller, not even by Lady Mon-
tague, thatthe beautiful Circassian girls suffer on that ac~ount with
inflamed eyes. But no matter, it must be true! Ire says so, in
his Organon, on pp. 5,9 and 60.
In our humble opinion, Hahnemann, by whom, according to
Dr. Hering, on page IP, "the most important medicinal energies
ofnature have been investigated," could have recommended a
much surer homreopathic remedy against inflamed eyes, drawn
also from roses. Every one will certainly admit that few
healthy men, or even animals, will escape from having their
eyes inflamed, w~en pricked or scarified with the thorns of
roses, for which Hahnemann could have quoted still older and
also modern authori~ies ; although this operation, called ophthal-
moxysis, was originally performed with ears of barley or rye.
Samuel Hahnemann, whom we have seen so exceedingly
averse to all names ofdiseases, enriches, however, the profession,on
page 67 of his Organon, with a new disease, termed by him ctmtu-
lion-Bickne88. He says, that the symptoms of the drug-sickness, pro-
duced in healthy persons by the use of Arnica montana, L. are simi-
to the symptoms which partly sometimes happen after a more or
less violent contusion of a part. Arnica must therefore, ofcourse,
be considered as a specific remedy against the consequences of all
contusions. In his opinion it is only downright allopathic non-
sense to bleed, leech, foment, or even to resort to trepanning, in
severe cases of such a kind ; a trillionth or decillionth part of a
grain of arnica-juice will cure all contusions easily, safely, and
quickly.
It appears that Hahnemann's attention was particularly attract-
ed by the less common German name, amongst half a dozen, for
Arnica, viz. Fallkraut,(falling-herb). According to the many drug-
sickness symptoms, mentioned in vol. I. of his Materia Medica,
Digitized by Google
116
it is a very singular plant : it makes, for instance, healthy persoos
exceedingly melancholy, and at the same time very gay. Preach-
en, lawyrrs, members ofcongres&, in short, all who are and must
be very.eloquent, should be cautious not to take a dose ofArnica,
for the same rrason, as it is worth recommending to some particu-
larly blessed married men, for the stiJI greater promotion oftheir
"domestic felicity," because it makes talkative, and ofcourse where
loquacity prevails it will cure it. (See 1\lat. Med. Vol. I, p. 504.)
In pure inflammatory fevers, encephalitis, or ioflaoimatioo of
the brain, with delirium, iu which a few drops of a spiritu.ous drink
are considered by every allopathist as equivalent to poison, Hah-
nemann recommends (Organon, p. 73) strong wine in small doses,
because a few cases nre recorded where it bas proved ulleful.
By quoting (Organ.1p. 73), in support of this luminous opi·
nion an old treatise in Epbem. Natur. Cur. entitled," febris ardeos
" spirituosis curata," he shows an ignorance hardly to be met with
in a well educated physician, since febris ardens is not an inflam·
matory disease, but the same as causus, generally a typhus or
putridfever, where rational medicine has always considered good old
wine a great and almost indispensable remedy. He recommends
wine in encephalitis particularly, because, when taken in excess,
it frequently produces; among other inflammatory symptom!!, those
of the tissues of the brain also, and ridicules, on p. 152, the com·
mon allopathist, who is so fooliE:th as to give wil)e, in order to
strengthen persons exhausted by long sufferings or by othec
causes, because its first effect (Erstwirkung) produces only the
feelings of strengtl,, and its after-action (Nachwirkung), is always
exhausting and relaxing. He should, consistently, also recom·
mend a sumptuous dinner with some dozens of hot spiced dishes
as a very salutary remedy in inflammations ofthe brain, lungs,&.c.,
where sleeplessness prevails, because the after-operation of such
a dinner is to make one feel sleepy.-We know not why Dr. Her-
ing, (1. c. p. 26,) objects to " the dieting system," and to " starva·
" tion," since, as Hahnemann considers the after·operation so im-
portant, be must know that a small quantity of food administered
to a person almost starved to death, will produee a very pleasant
after-operation ; and, to be consistent, the best mode of restoring
persons, suffering by consumptive diseases, would be to starve and
to diet them alternately.-lt is lucky for the patients of homreo-'
pa.thists, that they are.opposed to external remedies, and are bound
D1g1tized by Google
117
to pr.eecribe euch fancifully smalldoses. Their singular concf'ptions
about the first-and after-operations, would sometimes induce ;oome
of their rude brethnm to borse-whip theifpatients; for, provided
no wounds are inflicted, the martyr of their "law of nature,"
will feel a very pleasant after-operation, when the dose has been
applied. Rude allopathists and their patients are frequenlly in a
similar manner deceived by the same feelings of eat<e and com-
fort, when powerful emetics, and similar injudicious pr~ript.ions,
have cea.Sed to operate.
Hahnemann, though opposed to all external remedies, alludet~,Org.
p.· 95, t6 the beneficial effects of fomentations with hot water over
the head, when the brain is inflamed by a 8lroke oftheaun, or ifthe
head is in any other manner morbidly affected by its expos.ure to
excessive heat: quite natural ; because a dangerous inflammation
of the brain arises from the same cause, and the mode of applying
cold fomentations is considered one of the most superior allopathic
remedies ; and ergo-most foolish and murderous in his eyes.
The learned Dr. Hering proclaims tG the world, on page 16 of
his .Concise View, that," physicians must again become students,
" and that they were unwilling to do :" we shall continue to prove
how correct he is, but not only with regard to physicians, but to all
mankind, interested in such great discoveries..-Hahnemao, Org.p.
84, asks : " what willsuffocate sooner than the vapor ofburningsul-
" phur'l and the same vapor ofburning sulphur," he says, "is found
"to be the best remedy torevive personsasphyctic from other suffocat-
" ingcauses." Indeed ! it il; strange that this" great benefactor ofhis
"race," did not recommend also the rope as an excellent remedy
to revive asphyctic persons, since it is prima facie evident, that it
answers extremely well his homreopathic maxim and the inge-
nious applications which he makes ofit. How many worthy men
would have been preserved to the world and their families, espe-
cially in a certain highly civilised country, if this marvelous
hornreopathic after-operation of a rope should have been known
long since !-Is it not to be seriously deplored that " with blessings
" on its wings, the great discovery reached to every quarter of the
"ea.rth".,.-eo late !-We believe our Samuel abstained from mi-
nutely mentioning thil!l further application of his reviving mea-
sures only on account of his professed aversion to all external re-
me«lies. Our conjecture appears confirmed by his comments on
pages 93 and 94 of the same work; "electricity, as is known," he
Digitized by Google
118
says, " canses a shortening of the muscles, which resembles tha
" in convulsions, &c., and Tbeden restored by electricity a girl
" ten years old, who by lightning had lost her voice, and had be-
" come almost lame in her left arm, though her arms and legs
" were .in a constant and involuntary motion, and her left fingers
" in a constant spasmodic contraction.11 We learn also from this
remark, that, maugre the above quoted duplicity of Hahnemann
and his disciples, in regard to the large and again small doses of
drugs for their experiments on healthy persons, they are more in
favor of the large than of the small ones for their trials on healthy
persons, and that we have been correct in adopting the former as
th~ basis of our discussioR: for nobody, a 11 close thinking" ho-
mmopathist excepted, will deny, that a thunder-stroke contains a
pretty large allopathic dose of electricity.
The conception of Hahnemann in regard to the protection of
the cow-pox against small-pox is likewise very remarkable and
contradictory to his maxim, similia similibus curantur. Discordant
with his repeated and really blasphemous expressions in regard to
the vital powers of nature, saying, for instance, on page 26 of his
Organon, " The wretched and exceedingly imperfect effort of the
" vital power in curing acute diseases without assistance, is a spec-
" tacle which challenges all mankind to active commiseration,
" and ns to the exertion of all our intellectual powers, to put an '
11 end to this self-torinent, by a gen~ine salutary cure, &c.'~-he
exclaims on page 80 of the same work, " can cow-pox protect
" against small-pox otherwise than in a homreopathic ·manner 1
" This dis~ which, besidesother similarities with the small-pox,
"appears only once during the whole human life, leaves the same
" deep cicatrices and presents also the sameswelling of the axillary
" glands, a similar fever, the same areola, and even the same oph-
" tbalmia and convulsions, which the small-pox produce<!, The
" cow-pox would extinguish and cure the small-pox even after it
" bad appeared, provided the small-pox were not stronger than
" the cow-pox; the latter wants therefore only a higher degree of
"strength to cure the di~ which, according to the law of
" nature, is required in addition, to the homreopathic similarity for
"the cure. We can therefore apply this homreopa.thic remedy
" only in advance, before the small-pox affects the body," &.c•
.Leaving unnoticed many material objections which could be made
to theae false statements, in subjects of daily occurrence to the
D1g1tized by Google
119
profession, they contradict palpably the honl<P.opathic maxims:
lat. That no homc:eopathic remedy ca~ be used in too amall a dose,
&c., because, the smallest quantity of vaccine virus used fur vacci-
nation, will always be many billion times larger than aoy ho-
mreopathic dose of a drug; 2d. According t.o the maxim similia
similibus curantur, and according to Hahnemann's explana-
tions, as stated above, it is not explained why the cow-pox t~hould
not extinguidh, check or destroy the small-pox at .any time
of its existence, as all homc:eopathic drugs are said t.o do, which
therefore also are not used as prophylactics, but as 1·emed·ies for
the existing disease. Should this not be the meaning of Hahne-
mann, he could not claim to cure diseases already exh!ting, and it
would follow therefrom, that every person, being ign~rant what
disease may befal him, would be obliged to take, through his wl10le
lifetime, every month at least, one dose of all known homreopathic
drugs, if he wishes to be protected against all diseases.
The author of the Concise View recommends, (page 17) in con-
formity with his master, the application of heat to a scalded limb,
and on the contrary, cold to a frost-bitten one. Hahnemaun ac-
count.s on page 157 of his Organon for this advice, by the com-
mon experiment, in which, if one band only is' bathed with hot
water, it feels ofcourse much warmer than the other hand left fr~e
(first-operation, Erstwirkung,) but removed from the hot bath and
dried, it will afterwards feel cold~r than the other, (after-opea·atioo,
Nachwirkung,) and the contrary will prove true if ice be_used.
Both our authors support these experiments by iustances on re-
cord, in which the treatment performed in accordance with th~se
experiments succeeded. Ignorant of the physical causes of these
phenomena, which, as belonging to the third maxim, we shall dis-
cuss afterwards, they take no notice of the majority ofcases, where
cold applied to scalded limbs, and warmth to those w}lich were
frost-bitten, afforded safe relief and cure, provided that both were
judiciously applied in respect to the degree of the a1fection.
On &he same page of his paruphlet, Dr. Hering mentions, in
further corroboration of bomc:eopathia, that the cure of certain
cases of acidity ofthe stomach, suggested to him by an American,
may be best e1fected, not with magnesia, a contrarium, but with
lemon juice, a simile. We doubt very much whether he would
succeed in curing all kinds of acidity of the stomach with lemon-
juice, even in allopathic ~oses, as it was probably used by our
Digitized by Google
120
American colleague. Tbe learned Dr. Hering ought to know,
that other acids, as particularly Haller's elhir ofvitriol, were long
since highly recommended for the same symptom, but nevertheless
tbey fail in many cases, where drugs very different from, or rather
opposite to acids, as the alkalies, aromatics, bitters, &c., are more
salutary. These cases, though generally of minor importance,
may clearly prove the preference of general prindples, drawn
from causes and not merely from symptoms. Rational medicine
does not consider pyrosis itself as a disease, but only as a com-
mon symptom 'of dyspepsia, which may co-exist or not with the
latter•. One who uses lemon-juice or any similar ~medy to cure
pyrosis, upon the principle similia similibus curantur, will unques-
tionably cure those cases in which the caase is removed by it, as
in hyperresthesia or parresthesia of the stomach, in some func-
tional diRorder of the liver, &c., but he will be unsuccessful and
even do injury in many others, in anresthesia of the stomach, hys-
teria, &c· which another one, trusting to the opposite but less er-
roneous maxim, contraria contrariis curantur, wiJJ perhaps cure
by his antacids. But there are many cases which will yield to
.neither method, and where both practitioners will fail, because they
are merely guided by delusive symptoms, whereas the rational phy-
sician viewing correctly the proper cause of this symptom, will re-
sort probably with immediate success, to the proper medicines,
without believing the processes in tbe stomach to be similar to
those instituted by the chemist in his retort or crucible.
An over-estimate of the symptoms, particuli1rly of those which
may be referred to topical diseases, without due reference to the
much more importan~ anamnesis, or the minute scrutiny of the
occasional causes of a disease, may in many cases be very fatal to
the patient. We have already alluded to these subjects above,
and hope' on another occasion, to detail the results of our prac-
tice, and the great injuries which we have frequently seen inflict-
ed by similar rude modes of a mere symptomatic treatment. We
may, however, be permitted to add a few words, illu~>tratrng still
more the great injuries of a merely symptomatic method, which
will affect homreopatbia particularly, when, as may be expected,
its votaries will soon abandon the third maxim about the small
doses, and merely sustain for a short time the second, about the
·similarity of the drug-and-disease-symptoms. Two cases may
Digitized by Google
121
not only present similar symptoms, but, may also be rightly ~
ferred to the same aft"ected organ, and nevertheless differ so wid~
ly, that the life of the patient is endangered in a few hours, by the
least disregard ofthe previous state of the patient, and ofwhat hap-
pened before the attack. In illustration of this, we cannot find a
better instance, than the illusive similarity ofa high degree of in-
toxication to delirium tremens, so satisfactorily explained by Dr.
Samuel Jackson, of Northumberland in Pennsylvania, in his able
treatise, published in the American Journal of :Medical Sciences,
No. XIV. Feb. 1831. We have long entertained the opinion,
that the two opposite modes of treatment, so frequently recorded
by.faitbful authors, must depend npoh an error in the anamnesis;
some recommending, as the abstract of their practice, Sutton's
method with large doses of opium, others, for the same reason,
the strict antiphlogistic method, by bleeding, leeching, cold fomen-
tations, &c. Intoxication and delirium tremens are neither of
them as frequent in the place ofour former residence, nor over the
whole of Germany at present, as they are in this country, though
intemperance has been, according to the oldest statements on re-
cord, among the most prominent vices of the Germans. Tacitus
for instance, says in his Germania : " Diem noctemque continnare
" potando, nulli probrum, crebrre ut inter vinolentos, rixre, raro
"conviciis, srepius crede et vulneribus transigunturl."-ln a
hospital and large dispensary, entrusted to our care for upwards
offifteen years, we very'seldom saw a case, and therefore we only
could observe the correctness of Dr. Jackson's remarks in but a
few instances.* But it is evident, in this respect, that so much
does not depend upon the similarity of the symptoms, which is very
great, as -upon a~ acute induction, drawn from different particu-
lars and forming together a clear retiology, as the very founda-
tion of a safe rational treatment. For, opium given in large doses
to a highly intoxicated person, would unquestionably increase the
• We sltltll perhaps mention at anotheropportunity, the reasons whyintemperance is
now less common in Germany than in many other countries. We would mention here,
only that the Germans are generally moreintemperate in wine, and particul:uly in beer,
tbao in brandy, and we think they do not become so easily drunk as the people in this
country, owing probably to the greater 11niformity of their climate, to their frequent
amusements by music, dancing, and by other national pleasure;; and fetes. It may
el10 be easily explained by psychical principles, why cheerful entertainments lessen
the inclination to the higher degrees of intemperance, and absorb or consume a con-
siderable part of the noxious influence .of liquors, whereas the propensity to intempe-
!&tlee in persons who live retired from company and arc apt to muse, is not only
greater but also in itself more ruinous.
16
• Digitized by Google
122
danger of bis statt> equally as much as a powerful antiphlogistic
treatment would injure the other one ad'ected by delirium tremens,
whereas the inverse method would prove salutary to both ef them.
The rational physician, engaged in an extensive practice, will
every day meet with similar cases, where life depends upon an
equally minute distinction, acquired from the information of the
previous and existing particular conditions of the case, and itt
more or less remote causes. Such minute and mostly very impor-
tant data, which are known much better and more easily by tbe
family physician than by another, enable him therefore, to detect
the true cause of a disease much more quickly, and thereby, all
other things being equal, more to benefit the patient.
We may refer also to the similarity of symptoms produced by
di1ferent poisons, belonging to the same class, which if taken in a
sufficient quantity, will soon destroy life, if proper aid be not im-
immediately administered, which depends.not only on the general
treatment, but must also correspond to the specific chemical quality
of the poison. Admitted that every metallic or narcotic poison
wilJ present on a very minute examination, besides the general
symptoms of all metallic or narcotic poisons, also specific symp-
toms; bot tht>y are certainly not always observable immediately.
A homc:2opathist, especialJy one of those finished without the least
professional education in a couple of months, and relying only on
his symptoms, would, as they generally do, particularly in such
extraordinary cases, run home to consult his drug-symptom-text-
book, then institute possibly, a long cross-examination and write
down minutely its results, in strict accordance with Hahot>mann's
explicit advice, and at last he would apply the virtue developedfrom
one of his drug-atoms, developed, according to similia similibos
curantur, from the same poison which has caused the danger;
and thus undoubtedly, as in many other less conspicuous instances,
be the negative cause of the death of an unfortunate individual,
who might probably have been restored, if a stomach-pomp, the
•
proper antidote, and other remedies prescribed by rational me-
dicine, had been applied in time.
After attempting to demonstrate by the preceding remarks, that
with our imperfect senses, we can by no means rely upon symp-
toms alone for a correct diagnosis, since similar symptoms fre-
quently depend upon very different causes, we wilJ now endeuour
Digitized by Google
123
to prove by a few instances, that also rery di.ffeJ'ent symptoms may
be attributed in the same manner to one and the same cause, and
that therefore very different diseases may be radicaJty cured by
the same treatment. Let us suppose that teo persons, alike in sex,
age, apparent constitution, and other respects, have exposed them-
selves to ·the same obnoxious causes, for instance, after being ex-
cited and profusely perspiring from dancing, drinking spirituous
liquors, &c. have exposed their feet to wet cold. In all probability
eaoh of them wiJl be affected differently, in consequence of some
particular local disposition, of which, however, none of them was
ever before aware ; one, for instance, will be attacked with pleu-
risy, another with angina, a third with ophthalmia, &to. &c. A
rational physician, if called in, and informed of the occasional
causes of their sufferings, which collectively have produced the
proximate general cause of their different sickness, viz: checked
perspiration, injured conductive capacity of the cutaneous nerves,
plethoric accumulation ofthe'blood in different organs with a pro-
pensity to intlammation, or the latter ilself, &'C. wiJl probably cure
them all readily, by the same method of treatment, varying only
very slightly ; according to the parts affectE'd, such as removing
the light·from the inflamed eyes, forbidding much speaking to
the pleuritic, &c. ; be will probably attain his maia object by pre-
scribing warm stimulating foot-baths, gentle diaphoretics, &c.
whilst. the homreopathist, directing his whole attention only to the
symptoms, after comparing them with the image of the corres-
ponding drug-sickness, &c., not only loses much time to no pur-
pose, but leaves perhaps all these patients uncured by the use of
his drug-virtues developed from an atom ofAconitum for the pleu-
ritis, of Pulsatilla for the ophthalmia, of Spongia usta for the an-
gina, &c. &c. If, for instance, one of these patients is affected
by gout, and is attacked by a chemosis, which, unless treated very
actively by antiphlogistics, will destroy ·the eyes in less than twen-
ty-four IJours, the immense injury ofsuch a nonsensical symptom
atie treatment by an homreopatbist will be still more evident.
In eases like these, where the connection between the cause of
the morbid process and ita consequences is so clear, the rational
physician can generally restore health safely and quickly without
recurring to symptoms; the morbid process not being yet compli-
cated by the rapid progress of multiplied connections, either direct or
Digitized by Google
124
antagonistical, with the different systemt~ and organs ; the depend-
ance of the effect upon its cauqe is so plainly manifest, as to
admit a speedy restoration, being apparently almost like a me-
chanical connection between both, though we would by no means
compare the vital actions to any mechanical power. In such cases
rational medicine shines forth in splendor, and shows its great
preponderance over all empiricism, so that an enlightened class of
people, anxious to have the_ slightest indisposition removed by their
physician, will enjoy, in a·series ofyears, great advantages in their
healthy conditions and vigour, ifcompared with another class,which
call only for assistance upon their physicians when the disease
has considerably advanced. In the machinery of an organii!ed
living body, and especially of man, which is so many times more
complicated than the most compound artificial machine, aod upon
'
· which so many, and even quite another world of mental influences
are operating, the effect of a cause seldom remains stationary,
without spreading and combining with many others sympatheti-
cally, which become again the cause of other effects, and so on
reciprocally to an indefinite large number of causes and their
effects, till the last of them are recognisable by us as symptoms.
No homc:eopathist can deny this to be the course, if he attaches
any meaning toHahnemann's expressions, "first-,counter-,and after-
" operation," and he must at least admit, t,hat his object is not
merely to remove the S'!Jmptoms, but to remove the disease itself,
'or to cure the patient by removing the symptoms. If therefore a
disease has lasted a long time, before the homreopathist has been
called to attend, h~, in referring only to the symptoms present, will
not observe the symptom produced by the first original cause,
(symptoma causre) but the consecutive and different ones, which are
very distantly referable to the first effect, resulting from the original
cause, (symptomataliymptomatum.) Even in successfully applying
his drug to all the presentsymptoms, forming what the homreopa·
thist terms, " the image of the natural disease, (Kl'ankheitsbild,)"
with all the minute prominent symptoms, their shades, &c., they do
notaffect the original symptoms, but only those which arise from the
many preceding effects,all ofwhich are moreor less complicated and
dissimilar to the former, as they are more or less distant from them
by going through the many different periods and developments of
the disease. If, therefore, Hahnemann's assertions should be cre-
dited, viz. that one atom of his drug, though taken only once a
Digitized by Google
125
week, or sometimes only once every six weeks, should be sufficient
to "extinguish" aU the causes and effects, or all the symptoms,
the originalas weU as the consecutive, " without ever doing any in-
jury," this a\one would require au implicit. beliefin the supernatural
powers of his virtues developed from atoms, which act almost w~th
more judicious discernment than rational beings. These ratioci-
nations can alone explain easily; why the trials with the bomroo-
patbic method, instituted by homceopathists under the eyes of im-
partial observers, as we have stated in the beginning of this trea-
tise, have either entirely failed, or have succeeded only in the same
ratio with other similar eases, which were left entirely to the OPe-
rations of nature. We doubt very much, whether by the multi-
plicalion of drug-symptoms, which, in some cases have already
been increased to upwards of a theusand, the prophecy of Dr.
Hering will ever be fulfilled, when he says, on p. 24, I. c. " in fu-
" ture times the new pathology will as far excel the old, as do the
" natural sciences of the present. period those of the last century
" .But, at the bed-side of the patient, the homreopathic physician
" is unmindful of this future science." (-no doubt, ofcourse!-)
" His sole inquiry is after the symptoms, because the symptoms
" alone determine his choice of the remedy, and upon the fuloess
" and accuracy with which these are noted, rests the entire mn-
" nageroent of the cure. All, therefore, depends upon the correct
" examination of the patient, but not upon any possible opinions
" concerning the nature and essence of the disease, nor upon learn-
" ed views concerning its concealed seat."
.We doubt whether the most zealous and partial opposer of this
professional fanaticism could give a better descriptio~ of it, than
that which we read in these few lines. Though a faithful abstract
of many similar expressions in Hahnemann's works, none indeed
.could express with more frankness the open tendency of homceo-
pathia to the rudest empiricism. Beware oi any possible opinion!
Guard against a11!J tJiet.DI Q1' conjftduru which might perhaps lead
to the discovery of the concealed aeat of the disease ! Renounce
all the higher intellectual faculties, and believe blindly and impli-
citly in the dictates of a man, who says, that the healing art be-
gins .with him, that he alone has discovered the.great truth, by
a superficial glance, without philosophy, without chemistry, with-
out anatomy, physiology, and all the other sciences hitherto con-
sidered indispensable to spy the mysteries of nature ; that he
Digitized by Google
126
alone knows now to expound her laws and to interpret her aetioas
in the remotest recesses of animal life, hitherto concealed from all
other mortal eyes ! Such are the watch-words o(these infatuated
fanatics. How correctly Fr. Bacon says, in his work, De Augm.
Scient. " Licet de factis ipsis, licet hnmani animi pignora sint
" Cflrtissima, non prorsus tamen fidendum ; nisi diligeoter ac
" attente pensitatis prius illorum et magnitudine et proprietate.-
" lllud enim veriuimum ; fraus sibi in parvis.fidem prrestruit ut
" majore emolumeoto fallat."
To say nothing of all other absordities of this whole doctrine,
if such maxims should ever prev!dl in the medical profession, it
might be predicted with the most possible ct'rtaioty, that all the
great advantages acquired in medicine for many centuries would
be tota11y lost and all advancements entirely checked.
No rational physician will deny the great value and necessity
of a minute symptomatology, which, though erroneously consi-
dered identical with the diagnosis, only partly belongs to that im-
portant branch of practical medicine.-Symptomatology is as in-
dispensable for the diagnosis, as records faithfully collected by
the chronicler or annalist, are for the historian : but never will
these be considered fully sufficient for a philosophical history of
a civilized nation in any period of its existence ; nor will the mere
catalogue of the deeds and the fate o.fa man distinguished in his-
tory, even with the addition of his faithful likeness, be a substi-
tute for his instructive. pragmatical biography.
The rational physician, estimating the symptoms, not as the
only or principal points, but as very uncertain and delusive signs,
will, from the symptoms, (symptomatology) from the whole his-
tory oftbe case, and many other data, which have occurred pre-
vious to ibe attack (anamnesis and retiology) form a whole (diag- .
nosis), from which he derives a general plan oftreatment, (general
therapia) divided into more or less different sections, (special the-
rapia) which be will retain or alter, according to circumstances,
showing either the correctness or incorrectness of his whole plan
and its single sections. He will consider a disease which has al-
ready lasted some time, as a compound of many causes and their
' effects originating from one fundamental cause, similar to a larger
or smaller ball of thread, containing one nucleus, which lie endea-
vours to unwind until he comes to the nucleus, to the primitive
Digitized by Google
127
eause itlelf, or at least to its primary e«ect.-His task resembles
the lllltired exertions of a true philanthropist, who undertakes to
rescae a wretched person, sunk by a bad ~ducation and by mis-
fortune into vice and misery : he will notice minutely his counte-
nance, the expreasions of his thoughts and feelings, and even his
negligeat dress ; bot be will pay most particular regard to his tnie
biography, be will scrutinize minutely the di8'erent causes and
their e8'ects obvious in the biography, until be can arrive at one
original cause, and project a circumspect plan for soccessin ope-
rations, to remoYe the first cause, if possible ; and will not fancy
that he can make him sensible ofthe delights, happiness, and self-
satisfaction of a virtuous life, by one moral speech, or, nrucb less,
by another dress : and only then, if be cannot find the primitive
cause, or cannot successfully combat it, be will attempt to amelio-
rate or to remove the external conditions, the symptoms : he may,
by so doing, afterwards succeed in ameliorating or removing the
first cause also ; but this evidently depends more on mere chance
· than the first plan.
With regard to the unwinding of the disease to its commence-
ment from a simple or more or less compound cause, it is indeed
very remarkable, how often a close observer will find nature pur-
suing this course in re-establishing health, sometimes even with-
out medical assistance ; though all advocates of methods which
rely only upon symptoms, and especially homceopathists, have not
the least conception thereo£ Thus, severe inflammatory diseases
of the serous membranes ofthe brain, or ofthe mucous membranes
of the throat, ofthe intestines, etc. in children, frequently arising
from a suppressed cold, or from a badly treated chronic eruption
ofthe skin, &c. appear generally to be not safely cured, until t,.be
.original local a8'ection is re-established and properly treated. The
profession bas, on that account, in almost all ages,·mistaken si-
milar processes for critical evacuations, by which a morbid mat-
ter is thrown outoftbe body,which the fancy oftbe physicians prt-
swnes to be the only cause ofthe disease; whereas it is to be regard-
ed merely as the natural coaseqoence of the m~re energedc gene-
nl vital reaction, and ·of the re-beginning healthy functions of
the secretory organs, unable immediately to prepare a sound se-
cretory or excretory matter ; or of processes which tend to restore
the former general degree of relative be'alth, and endeavolll' also
•
Digitized by Google
I '
128
to re-establish the less important disease ; being the accessory aad
simultaneous acts of nature in Iter operations to restore health.
Such presumed critical evacuations or deposits, if forced by drugs
directly, instead of judiciously supporting their beneficial cause,
must do mueh injury. Critical symptoms, as well as the critical pe·
riods of most acute diseases, are for this reason, undoubtedly highly
important, not only for the prognosis but also for the treatment,
iuiUJmuch as their appearance, after foreboding favorable symptomB
aud ~:~imultaneous marks, is moetly a sign, but not a cause of the
patients approaching 1ecovery; byfollowing thissuggestion,thegreat
value of their minute knowledge, to be drawn from the writings of
creditable practitioners of aU ages and at the bed-sides of patients,
will be increased rather than lessened. Wherever, in compli·
cated cases, the profession acts in conformity with nature, we may
consider it generally a certain sign of convalescence, if slighter
symptoms, which accompanied the first outset of the disease, reap-
pear ; a process which clearly explains the suggestions above ex·
pressed, in regard to the numerous changes of the causes and their
effects into other causes, &c., and which is very properly called by
some modern German authors, retroformation (Rueckbildung.)
In children, for instance, in whom nature operate~:~ more regu· •
larly, especially in regard to the re-productive processes,the recovery
from very severe diseases, frequently arising from neglected cold,
!:!eldom fails, even under the continuance of the pathognomonical
symptoms,when they begin to sneeze, and when their Schneiderian
membrane rebegins to secrete mucus profusely ; except in the last
stages of scarlet fever, with diphtheritis maligna anJ inflammatory
affections of the brain, where this symptom proves generally very
ominous, or is, as the profession used to term such signs, only a
symptomatic one.
Among the many morbid phenomena which caused the most
erroneous suggestions,in theold medical schools aswell as inhomreo-
pathia, we may mention t!Uch morbid functions as became habitual,
or those which by their long continuance became not only com-
patible with tolerable good health, but seemed essential!y tobelong to
the latter, so as to cause, when suppressed, severe diseases. The ge-
neral opinion, still maintained by most physicians, that the suspeo·
. sion of the habitual morbid process itself, is th~ cause of a merely
contemporaneous disease, is owing also to their superficial reliance
upon symptoms: being not aware that the absence or coexistence of
Digitized by Google
129
two or more symptoms does not imply their dependence upon eaeb
other as cause and eft'eet, but authorizes us rather to adopt with
more propriety, a common cause, producing both the suspension o{
lbe habitual morbid function as well as the new·disease. In eon~~e­
queaeeofthese false conceptions their plan oftreatment being in ge-
neralexdusivelydireeted &o restorethe suppressed habitualsecretion,
is usually injurious. Hahnemann, in his Organon aad in his werk
on chronic diseases, considers all habitual morbid functions ae
produced by the rude and impetuously acting vital powers, which
being, by this their allopathic mode of cure, incapable of directly
removing the very cause ofall'll08t all the chronic diseases, aamely
it.ch, sub8titute for tbis general disease a local one, generally woree
tha.a t.he former. We shall eoon see in what this, his lateet doctrine,
consists, aDCI mention here only that the plan generally adopted by
the profession, for the cure of such suppressed habitual morbid
fUnctions -must frequently fail ; if it however sueceeds, the consti-
tution of the patient is often more or less impaired by it, leaving
him disposed either to a severer relapse of the same habitual disease
or to some other chronic one, as all indirect treatment usuallydoes.
We have often observed these natural consequences of such erro-
neous medical treatment, 10r instance, when the wppressed be-
monhoidal dux,• or th~ suppressed menstruation itself have been
coasidered &be causes of the disease, and patients suffering with
lhe latter, and illtteated with repeated bleedings, leeehes, the
strongest emmenagogues, &c., fell, like many others, victiDIB to
• This i1 DOt the proper place to diaeuBS more mino&ely 1neh topic• ; but from
long experience we feel entitled to 1uggeat that hemorrhoid• or pile1, whether ftwent
or not, mherited or not, in young as well as in old person1, mostly depend not upon a
plethora, or orgaemus in the nna ponarom, obetnetion• in the linr and other abdo·
minal organa, &c., nor upon a predominant venoaity, ao mueh advocated in modern
times as tbe cauee of many dieeaeee, but upon a morbid action of the lower pan of the
apinal marrow, the nerves arising from it, and their important anatomical and func•
tiona! connections with the abdominal and other ganglia. The ddferent morbid dec·
Liens heretofore named, may them~elve8 be cooaider8d u tbe c~ence of thia
cause ; 1111d this will be beet explained by the intimate connexio11 of h<emorrhoida
with 80 many dangerous chronic diseases, and the salutary use of internal and exter·
aal remediea belonging to the clue of nenina, when aided by eligM digeMina and a
proper mental and physical regimen. Though the diseases ofthe spinal marrow, after
king to long neglected by tbe profeeaion, have become lately a booby with some
diatinguished pr~ctitioners, especially in Ge1111any, they lllllJ howenr be coueidered to
a much larger extent than the profeseiou is still aware of, as the original c_
ause o(
lllaDJ MtiOOI alld eepec:ially chronic dilea-. Hypoobondria, bJetaria, dtabetee,
fittula ani, and similar important diseases .in the abdominal organs, may depend upon
the morbid innervation of th- respective orgaus from smalfdiHaaed places of ~e
apiDal marrow, and the nervee orWn&ting frOJP lb4lm, 80 daat very email dts&a~cea Ill
the spine may decide on the formatton ofone, in preference to another of the dteeasee
llleDCiooed, and th- may therefore be al1o - t eaeily and quickly remedied, by
a minute reference to· the origin of the nerves belonging to the diseased organs, and
to Charles Bell's great diacovery regarding tbe dDferent origin of the nerve• of &en•
aaUoo and of motion.
17
Digitized by Google
130
consumption, dropsy, paralysis,&e., from inaaitioo, with or wilhout
the reappearance of the habitual hlllmorrhoidal or menstrual fiux,
so long desired; while on the contrary, in similar ~ pauents
have easily beenre8tored,by relyingonly upon general principles and
indications, without particular regard to the reappearance or non-
appearance ofthe former symptom, the habitual morbid evacuation,
wbich1 in nine times outoften, is suppressed merely from debility, or
from sympathetiealcauses, to the benefit rather than to the injury of
the patient, until the removal of the true cause admi\s their spon-
taneous, and only then also, salutary reappearance. In several
diseases such habitual morbid secretions will, therefore, be ob-
served to continue and to increase considerably, and, nevertheless,
the health notbe restored,but rather s_illl more seriouslyinjured,Wltil
the increased morbid secretion is again reduced to its former degree;
and this frequently is done best by such remedies as in healthy
persons or in other diseases, would produce the same. As we
have seen, these facts belong to the moet prominent pillan on
which the author of homreopathia has founded and constructed
his maxim, similia similibus curantur ; they readily dazzle the
eyes of many, who are easily misled by their want of judgment
and practical talent. Indeed, the statement being correct, that the
same remedies which in many eases contribute to increase a secre-
tion, are eff~tual in checking it. when superabundant, was too
striking not to be used in support of a doctrine, which even in it.
few truths relies solely upon statements or merely palpable faetsr
and is advocated by those only, who, ignorant of sound physiological
and pathogenetical principles, depend only on phenomena and
care not to investigate their various causes. The old proverb,
"omne simile claudicat," which is true of homreopathia in general,
is particularly applicable in these cases. On a nearer examination
they provejust thecontrary to what they were intended to prove, viz.
that a mere reliance on symptoms is delusive, whereas on the con-
trary, the conditions under which these phenomena generally
appear, prove to be accessory effects only of the rational treatment,
which operated indirectly or rather apparently upon the symptom,
being however directed to counteract directly the cause only.-
Should these cases offer such positive arguments for the correctness
of the homreopathic fundamental maxim, similia similibus curan-
tur, we should find no ease totally at variance with it, and
much less would it be pregnant with the many absurdities which ·
Digitized by Google
131
we have already q\1oted, and which we shall more fully mention
laereafter. The fact that the same drugs which in most cases ag-
gravated a disease, by increasing a superabundant secretion, check
and core the same in a few similar cases, proves conclusively, that
the latter cases mWft depend upon acceoesry or unknown causes,
or more properly upon such as are opposite to thoee ofthe former. It
is a bad I'Ule that will not work both ways, and an old but always
tr11e saying, "cir~mstances alter the case." Nobody, for instance,
will assert that water must be the best material for preserving fire,
because in some instances in which it became decomposed by the
heated substances, the violence of the dames was exceedingly in-
creased by it !
. Death, by external violence or poison excepted,lthe rational phy-
sician does not acknowledge the unconditional and absolute action
ofany treatment,or of anyspecific remedy : he uses the same reme-
dies in GaseS apparently different, and different remedies in cases ap-
parently identical or similar; his only intention is, and must always
be, to prescribe the same treatment, where he has reason to pre-
sume the same -causes. In the cases before us he cannot therefore
admit, either the absolute antipathic, or much less the homreo-
pathic property of the drug, as directly restraining the profuse
morbid secretion, but must believe that it became restricted by the
conseeutory and beneficial effect of the rational treatment upon·
the vital powers in general, which could not suffer the cause of the
symptoms longer to prevail ; or that it was the contemporaneous
tpeeific aetion of the drug upon the affected secretory organ, pro-
moting the same end. This will be the more evident in observing,
that it is not sufficient only to reduce the superabundant morbid
aeeretion to its former quantity, but also to its former quality, and
that only when th~ takes place, we may conficlently hope that the
vital functions of the whole body and of the diseased secretory
organ are in the best way ofrecovery. Every attentive practitioner
will, for instance, often observe, that as a very abundant perspira-
tion is a symptom of many acute fevers and of other diseases ; the
former beloug mostly to the class <lf bilious remittent <lr typhus
fevers, which, if they do not originate from a marsh or another
miasma, or from contagion, frequently arise from checked perspi·
ration, and commence from the neglect or illtreatment of the
alight catarrhal or rheumatic affections, which they present in the
becinning. Unless important organs are so affected as to require
.
Digitized by Google
132
particular eare, these fevers and the excessive perspiration will be
safely femoved, only when, by a judicious diaphoretic treatment
with ammonia, camphor and similar diffusible sudorifics, the quan·
tity and quality of the perspiration are altered. The profession
uses, particularly in such cases, the term " critical evacuation,"
under the erroneous impression that the matter perspired, being
offensive and chemically different from what it was before, during
the state termed " crude," is the cause of the disease, while, how·
ever, it is merely the consequt>oce of the rebeginniog healthy state
of the before suppressed or morbidly altered secretory functions
and normal nervous actions in the skin, and other organs sympa-
thetically connected with it. With similar views the celebrated
German physician, Lentin, stated, about forty years ago, {and we.
have often found it correct), that maay severe and obstinate chronic
diseases arise only from the sudden suppression of an offensive
habitual perspiration of the feet, and that the disease is with diffi·
culty removed by any remedy, not even by those which abun-
dantly increase tbe perspiration of _
the feet, unless its original ha·
bitual offensiveness becomes restored, which be thinks is generally
very difficult. Professor J. J. Albers, at Bonn, in his able treatise
on ulcers of the intestines, (Ueber Darmgeshwuere, 1831), ascribes
some eases of dothienteritis, and its common fatal termination by
abdominal consumption, to the ~me cause.
From the oldeet ages down to the present time, few prejudices
have been retained so firmly as this, that tbe cure of old
natural ulcers or &flificial issues may be very injurious. 'l'he
former are often produced by nature, the latter by art, for real aJI&-
pa.thic purposes, so much condemned by Hahnemann, though it is
justly considered in medicine, as in all occurrences of common
life, fortunate to acquire for a greater evil or inconvenience, a rela-
tively smaller one. Intimatelyconnected, by their long continuance,
with the whole humo.n economy, their inconsiderate remo.-al by
means which render the individual still more sickly, sueh a8 the
constant use of purgatives, antidyscrasics, &c. with a view to re-
move a virulent matter, with or without the topiC!ll application of
astringents, desiccatives, or similar remedies, must prove detri-
mental, either directly, because they check a process which habit
bas rendered indispensable for tolerable good health, or indirectly,
by reducing the vital energy to such a degree, that it can no longer
~ntinue this process at a distance from important organs, where it
Digitized by GoogIe
133
was less iujwious, and which, therefore, now occurs in a more
important part. The chronic ulcer is certainly a very important
di:Jease, which shouW be cured, if possible, but not merely sup-
pressed. , The issue may be salutary in many serious diseutJe&
which ar~ not as easily cured by any other remedy ; but the pre-
sumed necessity of maintaining it for many years, or for life, is
very inconvenient and mostly imaginary. During eome severe
diseases, and under tbe injurious induence of other causes, whieb
impair the vital energy, natural as weU as artificial ulcers of long .
standing, frequently heal by themeelves, even with the greatest
care taken to keep them open. The exertions to reproduce them,
will prove beneficial, only if the cause of the new accessory disease
is removed, without affecting the state of things which prevailed
before. But by successfully counteracting both causes at.once, the
disappearance of an old ulcer, may it have existed ever eo long,
will, on the contrary be beneficial.
Habnemann's assertion, in his Organon, and in bias work on
chronic diseases, that before his time, the prpfession had treated all
chronic eruptions and syphilitic local affections by external reme-
dies only, is one of his many falsehoods, and iscontradicted by him-
self, in censuring the allopathic illtreat.ment of such diileases by
large doses of medicines. The history of practical medicine sadly
proves, that up to the last few years, when it became the fashion of
many physicians to set at stake human life and health by abstain-
ing from all internal remedies in constitutional diseases,• it was
considered almost a crime to apply external remedies in such
cases; internal medi~ines only were used, and in many eases under
the vague name of specifics, blood-purifyers, &c., they ruined like--
wise the constitutioils of mnny thousands, without any, or with
only apparent relief.
We may also pre~;ume, with great propriety, that the differeot
species and varieties of many diseases belonging to one class,
though pret'lenting to our senses such different figureR and shapes,
as, for instance, the great. number of exanthematic diseases, some-
times depend upon the same:cause, modified only by insignificant
• Men:ury, for inatance, still 80 indispensable for the radical cure of all syphilitic
diaeuee. ia now 80 much decried in theae complaints by the eame physicians wno pre-
.:ribe calomel by tea-spoon-fuls in .diseaaea, where it ;.• of more iojury thiQ pod,
&hat eYe& laymen make it aow generally, the first condition of an ansyphilitic treat-
ment. not to preecribe for them any mercury ; a mode which, when physician• com-
p~y with, from whatenr reasons, will be deplored, eooner or later, by the foolish pa-
Ueot, u we know 1uch caaes, neglected in a 1imilar manner by homceopathiata.
Digitized by Google
134
individual circumstances, and that, therefore, such minute distinc-
tions, as the profession is indebted for to the researches ofBateman,
Alibert and others, are more interesting to the natural history of
exanthematic diseases in general, than they will ever be of service
to an equally minute medical treatment..
In all those cases, therefore, where diseases arise from a sup-
pressed habitual morbid seeretion, or from a similar affection, to be
considered not entirely local, be it a single ulcer, or a chronic cu-
taneous disease, like herpes, impetigo, &c., a rational method of .
treatment resorting to the causes, and regarding the symptoms as
less important, will succeed best.. In conformity with the lawsof ani-
mal life, the proper object of the profession is to reestablish the
disturbed equilibrium, or the correlativeness of the two factors
primarily constituting all organised life, with particular regard to
the extensive as well as intensive energy of aU vital actions, and
a1ao to the great variety ofthe living chemical processes established
in the different systems, organs and parts. If this can be properly
effected, the patient will then recover entirely, even without the
return of his former habitual morbid secretion ; but if the relative
proportion ofthe two factors, their mutual correlation, and the par-
tieular living chemical processes resulting therefrom, are only partly
and imperfectly re-established, .similar to the former state of a
merely relative health, then the patient may likewise recover, but
only to that degree of relative health, which admits of, or even in-
dispensably requires, the recommencement and continuance ofthe
accustomed morbid secretion.
Among similar prejudices of the profession, existing before
Hahnemann, and particularly entertained by him, we may place the
erroneous conception, that a new disease may cure an old one:
as, for instance, that an intermittent fever may, by succeeding
some inveterate chronic diseases, cure them. This appears as false
as the assertion, that a strong light extinguishes a fainter one,
because the latter becomes invisible; or, that a greater vice may
cure one of less importance, because the greater one either im-
plies tlae latter, or destroys the propensity or power ofcommitting
it.. Ifthe former is greater, but ofanother kind, the consequences
of both will be still observable, provided that they do not eom-
bine in a third-As alJopathists, we.adbere to the old orthodox
opinion, that the proper antipathic remedy, reason, applied in
'
Digitized by Google
135
time to the additional vice will radically cure tbe new and the old
vice also : whereas bomreopathia, if consistent, would sanc&Wu &be
abominable opinion, that one vice could only be cured byaao&ber
similar one committed in addition, as the best means so ex-
tinguish th~ first: though, according to the lately published
" great truth" of Habnemaoo, the only cause of all human mise-
ry, physical, mental and moral, and of course also of all human
vices, being 1M itch, bomreopathists may now prescribe a less dis-
graceful antipsoric.-According to an enlightened pathogeny, no
disease can really cure another : .if it appear to do so in some
cases, the reason is, that every disease, being manifested by a de-
finite form, materially depending upon its causes, the new form
essentially belonging to the succeeding disease and its greater dis-
turbances of the animal economy, be it produced by a contagion,
a miasma, or any other cause, cannot admit the continuance of
the old form. Two diseases combined with each other in a third
disease and its proper, mostly hybrid form, will therefore also va-
nish together by a proper rational treatment, removing the causes
belonging to both of them. And this will also happen in those
cases, where the weaker disease became suppressed only while the
stronger one prevailed ; but then the former will re-appear and
continue its prope~ developement and course after the latter bas
disappeared.-Hahoemann favours the opinion, that two or more
different diseases may coexist separately, or also be combined toge-
ther in a third : nevertheless he forbids his followers to attend, at
the same time, to more than one disease, or to apply any com-
pound medicine. The logical acuteness of Dr•.Hering and his
brethren may notice this opinion,ras another argum.ent. oftheir void
assertion, that" Hahnemann was the first physician who recognized
" it as indispensable in every disease to regard man as a whole."
Habnemann says more consistently, somewhere in his Orga-
non or in his Materia Medica, that no substance, and of course no
drug, is absolutely simple. We would ask, if a homc:eopathic drug,
consisting according to this suggestion, of.two or more ,constituent
parts, must necessarily act upon twice as many or more symptoms,
and if Hahnemann admits also the coexistence of two or more
diseases combined together in a third, presenting of course, symp-
toms likewise different from both ; what reasonable objection can
he make to remove them altogether, by combining two or more
Digitized by Google
136
drugs in order to make of them also a third, suitable to the cue
before him ; since the drug thus becomes only a little more com-
pound than each'of them was before1 No person can reasonably
object to the terms of the different drugs, which if added &o the
principal drug, refer to additiooal eDds intended by them, sueb as
"adjuvants, oorrigents," &e. Hahoemann ridicules these old pro-
fessional terms, becauee, as he expressly saye, he coasidere it as an
additional proof of the ignorance of all allopathist.e in regard to the
diagnosis of the ditlease, and to the knowledge of the qualities of
the simple drugs. We admit t~u!.t in the hommopaa.bie experiments
for ascertaining the proper qualities of drup, every one must be
tried separately, but we should think, that the bedsideof the patient
is Cor no physician, and much less for hommopatbilts, the propu
place to instit11te experiments with their developed drug-virtues,
but that here, they should apply them according to the previous
minute knowledge of all disease-and-drug;,ymptoms, whenever it
may be necessary to consider two or more oatwal diseases com-
bined together. The profession bas lately become much opposed
to compound prescriptions, but wrongly, since if one cause is the
principal, or if it bas taken the lead ofthe prominent morbid process,
other ones might nevertheless coexist, which, though subordinate
in their character to the former, have an essential influence on its
development and course, and can therefore be properly counter-
aeted only by additional drugs. Simple prescriptions, it is true, are
generally the criterion ofa well educ;ated andjudicious physician,M
they prove, that he is not anxious to consider, by a motley mixture
ofmany drugs,every slightsymptom separately,but that he possesses
a clear conception of the whole disease, and has formed a concise
plan of treatment. But the first and principal aim of the physician
being to cure the patient, in the safest and quickest manner, and
this end being seldom attainable by the simple drug, on account
of many simultaneous sympathetical affections, the simplicity of
presCriptions, so much overvalued at present by mere fashion,
ahould never interfere in the least with his dutieS. In general the
reasons for substituting one drug of a certain class for another of the
same, are important, though also opposed to the tenets of homreo-
pathia. According to the laws of the living organization, and of
the human body particularly,all substances, especially those acting
ns artificial stimulants, 1~ the property of affecting the incitability
and of generating a reaction, in direct proportion to the time of its
Digitized by Google
137
tontinued definite quantity, however imperceptible it may often be
to our narrowly co~fined senses. If therefore there are several
drugs similar in their constituent parts and in their action as reme·
dies, and the judicious physician has SJ>f?cial reasons for not in-
creasing the dase of one of them, when it refuses service after some
time has elapsed, he may often employ another with success, and
in doses comparatively much smaller t.han the former was used.
The true cause of this fact will be explained, satisfactorily
,only when future chemical investigations shall prove it to depend
upon more or less trifling differences in the proportion of the con-
stituent parts of both ; perhaps, upon a different electro-magnetical
tension. A materia medica, embracing only a few of the most ef-
fectual ret~edies of a whole class is therefore very defective, and
this defect increases in relation to certain compositions of drugs,
which experience has proved to be more effectual in particular
cases, than the simple drugs of which ·they consist. The wise
laws of a strict medical police, and the intelligent framers of a
good pharmacopreia, are, therefore, not over-hasty in declaring a
simple drug or a compound medicine as obsolete, but insist, for
the benefit of the profession and the public, that the pocket of the
apothecary should suffer by his keeping on hand a greater variety
of drugs and medicines than is commonly required, rather than to
lose the means of affording relief to a patient on account of the de-
fectiveness of his stock.-AU these considerations are beneath the
elevated mind of the faithful homreopathist, who trusts with im-
plicit confidence to his valuable pocket-drug-store-his fancied
arsenal against the contents of Pandora's box !-It is difficult to
account for Hahnemann's great objection to nil compound medi-
cines, except by the greater difficulties which his monstrous sympto-
matology must have presented to him in minutely adapting his
method to complicated cases, and therefore also to compound me-
dicines. We may ascribe this also to his anxious desire to com-
plete a charlatanism quite new, and of his own invention, in pre-
t!Cribing simple drugs, which he laid open to the eyes of the public,
and the credit of which be endeavoured to strengthen and to extol
.by delusive experiments and flat treatises, whilst all other quacks
have hitherto tried to involve their all-curing !!pecifics in myl!tery_
by numerous combinations of drugs.
Hahnemann speaks in many places of his works of the indirect
and direct medical treatment, considering the·former as substi-
18
Digitized by GoogIe
138.
tuting one disease for another, and as the only one hitherto pur-
sued by the physicians of all schools, and claiming the latter as a
never-failing radical mode of cure for his homreopathic method.
Though his distinction of a direct and indirect treatment, if taken
in its proper sense, is just, it must be evident to every one, that
even.admitting homreopathia to be correct, according to its avowed
reliance on symptoms merely, without reference to any causes, no
medical method could claim with less propriety to be a direct one
than this ;-even as a system of criminal jurisprudence which refers
only to the similarity of cases, without any regard to. the moral
imputability, to the motives, and to the many important circum-
stances which may aggravate, mitigate, or annul a punishment,
could not be called a direct, just and reasonable one.-As we have
alluded to above, in speaking of the symptomatw treatment, the
,greatest source of error in medical practice, which has hitherto ar-
rested its adv~neement, and will ever do so if not properly under-
stood, is, that the immediate consequences of two totally different
or even opposite modes of treatment in similar cases, are not only
sometimes alike, but even that the wrong one is often for some time
after followed by an apparently brilliantsuccess. This is one of the
principal reasone why, in all ages, many intelligent men have lost all
. confidence in the medical profession; that it bas been, and still is, the
object of ridicule and contempt, and that physicians often leave the
choice of their treatment rather to mere chanc~, than to rational
inductions, after they have witnessed in large hospitals, as well as
in the lecture-rooms of celebrated professors, the· most opposite
modes of treatment, equally recommended by each party, as the
only ones for a safe and quick cure. Thus any new or old sys-
tem or method of practice, invented or compounded by an adven-
turous professor, especially if supported by his learning, eloquence
and rank, frequently becomes fashionable among the profession,
and causing more or less injury to the public, offers to the druggist
a golden or an iron age.
Blest be ! who sees without surprise,
The various systems fall and rise,
As shifts the fickle gale ;
While all their u~ost force exert
To wound the foe's unguarded part,
And all alike prevail.-Blacklock.
Should the success of a medical treatment really be the same,
whatever mode or fashion is adopted ; and should its provisions be
• Digitized by Google
139
teally so scanty as t" lenve this remarkable problem unsolved; tlJeiJ,
1lvery honest man, who has devoted his life to medical practice
from humanity and ~?Cientific interest, deserves commiseration,
and those who have unfortunately chosen this mode of gaining
their living, are excusable for adopting any mode of practice, be it
.even the innocent homreopathic. But it is not s~; not only the
principles of rational medicine itself, but every well educated and
impartial practitioner, provided his practical career was long and
extensive enough for instituting: minute·philosophical observations,
can easily solve this problem, by properly explaining the great dif-
ferences, frequently obvious in the consequences of a direct or ra-
tional, and an indirect or merely symptomatical treatment, though
many favour.able circumstances, not dependant on the control of
the physician, frequently frustrate the former, or compensate for
the bad consequences of the latter, and thus contribute to j,erpe-
tuate the errors and mistakes of the healing art. The profession
bas hitherto noticed this 'great difference only in a few chronic
diseases, confirming the important truth, that by an improper
treatment the disease may be apparently ~ured, while it is mate-
rially increased, so as to reappear more destructive and incurable
after an indefinite length of time. Thus, for instance, if a consti-
tutional syphilitic ulcer be suddenly removed, merely by the ex-
ternal application of lead-water or some other astringent, (the
general course of ignorant quacks,) the experienced physician will
ascribe the subsequent eruption o( constutional syphilis, with all
its horrid features, be it ever so long alter the iirst attack, to the
previous ill-treatment ; or ifan intermittent fever ·be removed by the
use of many ounces of pewdered bark, or by arsenic, and after
some months or·even yelus·a dangerous liver complaint,colliquative
diarrhrea, dropsy, consumption, &c. follow, he will unquestionably
ascribe these diseases.to the previous imprudent method. But should
a patient, sufferfng .from a. severe attack of hremoptysis, or a si-
milar disease, be temporarily relieved by repeated large bleedings,
leeches, calomel, cathartics, &c., however little these were re-
quired, and however much a contrary mode of treatment was
necessary; and should he, nft~r ·months or years, without any
remarkable cause, become affected by dropsy of the chest, pulmo-
nary consumption, or some other dangerous chronic disease, the
doctor will ascribe these .calamities to some fictitiou::l or real acci-
dent, rather than to his previous injudicious illtreatment; nay !
. .
•
Digitized by Google
uo
should he reflect upon the old disease and admit its influence in
the present hopeless case, he will rather reproach himself secretly
for not having sufficiently followed, in the former disease, the pre-
scriptions of modern practice, for not having bled, leeched, purged,
&c., enough to subdue the inflammation ofthe lungs, the heart, &c.
In large hospitals, as the patients are dismissed after their disease
bas been temporarily removed in a similar inconsiderate manner,
and as on a renewed attack, they seldom return to the same insti-
tution and physician, the recurrence of the former disease, or of
another, is observed less frequently than in private practice; and
in the annual hot~pital reports, hundreds are therefore numbered
among those radically cured, who afterwards died of a severe
relapse, or ofanother disease, or also continue to live in a feeble
state of health, frequently caused merely by neglect, or the strict
adherence to a fashionable treatment. Thus these public institu-
tions, which, by their many and prominentadvantages over private
practice, could largely contribute to the improvement of medical
practice, are frequently the very hot-houses of a partial and rude
method~ which becomes the fashion of the age, by the renown of
the celebrated professor and the many students attending the
eloquent lectures and the treatment ofthe hospital autocrat.
We have already tried to explain, that all organized life must
be considered as the product of two factors, and perfect or absolute
health as the harmonious and energetic reciprocal action of all the
integral parts oftheliving individual, &c. Under this ideal, which
seldom or perhaps never exists, are ranged all the various states,
whjcb, more or less approaching it, are comprised under-the con-
ceptions of relatively or t~lerably good health. Both are founded
upon an equilibrium .in the actions of the said parts, the latter,
however, with lees intense vital energy (Wirkungsvermoegen,)
as originally communicated to every individual by his relatively
healthy parents and preserved by his prudent life. It is evident
that not only a great variety of equilibriums can exist, all of which
depend upon the proportionate quantity on both sides, and admit
a certain degree of vital energy, but also, that the lower degrees of
this vital energy cannot resist so effectually certain injurious
influences, which would not . have affected persons enjoying
a higher degree of vital equilibrium with its more intensive
energy; a state which is termed, general morbid disposition, (all-
gemeine Krankheits-anl~e,) and generally arises after an indirect
Digitized by Google
141
treatment from a simultaneous latent. and slumbering focus of
a morbid reaction~ We may compare this with a pair of scales;
but with this difference, that the scales will present the equilibrium
with or without any weight on them, but the vital equilibrium
must always contain a sufficient quantity of weight and its coun-
terbalance, to preserve the degree of vital energy, indispensable for
the proper resistance to external injuries, and for the continued
feelings of psychical and physical comfort. It is also evident that
though in weighing a precious substance, the disturbed equilibrium
may be restored in two modes, it is nevertheless highly important
to the owner, that it is done, not by taking offfrom this precious sub-
. stance on the one side, but by adding, ifpossible, to the weight on
the other. In order to explain this important topic of an indirect
and direct treatment more clearly, let us imagine two poor men,
similar in age, health, and in all and every other respect. A
thousand dollars in small coin is given to both, provided they will
carry it home with them. 'fhe day is warm, and after they have
proceeded half-way, both drop down exhausted. Two spectators
now approach, anxious to give them aid : one, inconsiderately
takes off the load of money from one of them, while the other be- ·
nefactor judiciously tries to restore the second sufferer, merely by
food; drink, &c., and advises- him to proceed on his way slowly.
An idle spectator, not knowing the particulars, will consider the·
aid administered to the former much more effectual, when be per-
ceives him jumping up with ease, while the latter creeps home
slowly. The final result of this adventure is, that the one remains
poor, whilst the other becomes wealthy. We will now ask: whether
the .indirect treatment of the former, though apparently direct,
was not irrational, in comparison with the direct, though seem-
ingly indirect treatment of the latter1 In some situations both
might have needed the removal ~fthe burthen, or the sacrifice of
the money, for the preservation of their lives, and then, of course, the
aid would have been direct in both ; but as the principal object
failed, it is only relatively direct, and no reasonable man would ad-
vocate this method, unless it was urgently required, or the absolute
direct aid, if possible, had first been tried: we do not assert that the
instance given is a direct parallel case, " omne simile claudicat,:'
though it is not inferior to many similar popular explanations made
by Hahnemann.-It may, however, be obvious, that, for instance,
in many diseases producing a diminished vital reaction of the
Digitized by Google
142
tterVOU:i system, and a simultaneously, but only relatively, increased
reaction of the sanguineous aystem, two modes of treatment are
possible ; one of which te.nds to restore indirectly the disturbed
equilibrium by diminishing the relative plethora or orgasmus of
the blood, and the other, the rational direct treatment, endeavours
to restore the impaired normal nervous reaction. The latter
is still more rational in regard to its later consequences, for if the
relatively increased quantity of blood is diminished, two defects are
substituted for one, viz: the totality of the individual vital energy
is reduced to a lower degree, and probably the original disproportion
will soon exist in a greater degree, by the loss of the living fluid
which contributes also so much to support the vital actions of the
nervous system. Mutatis mutandis, the same will be the ease if a
predominant cause excites the nervous system, especially in its
central parts, and where the vital reaction of the irritable or san-
guineous system is· simultaneously, but likewise only relatively,
suppressed; with this difference only, that, whereas rational me-
dicine admits the existence of no substance the primary effect of
which is directly anodyne, although its after-action may be so,
therefore also, in all cases where the primary exciting effect of ano-
dynes is to be apprehended, the reaction of the sanguineous system
must be reduced before they are applied. Farther, as the nervous
~ystem, in this instance, like the vascular system in the first in-
stance, is the centre of a morbid excitement, it will drnw for a
length of time the nourishment for its morbid reaction from the
blood, if this is not checked by judicious depletion. The strictest
antiphlogistic method must therefore be conBidered a direct treat-
ment, in all those cas6s, where over-excitement, a tendency to plastic
formations, &c., exists in both these principal systems ofthe human
body; and many cases also happen, which are so very urgent as not
t.o allow time for direct interference, but only for indirect treatment.
It is also true, that even if no imminent danger exists, the particu-
larform of a disease sometimes does not admit the direct treatment,
until such a form is changed by an indirect one into another form,
known by .experience to be a more accessible or tractable one;
though these cases are less· frequent than many physicians believe.
We mention these briefoutlines ofa rational, physiological medicine,
merely to enable the general reader to explain for himself, why of
two opposite modes of medical treatment, the wrong one may suc-
~~ed, from circumstances beyond the control of the physician, or,
Digitized by Google
143
-'
as is generally the case, appears only to have succeeded in its im-
mediate consequences, until when after the lapse of some time the
patient becomes undeceived. The reader also may judge for bim-
self, whether such shallow reasoning as homroopathia generally,
and particularly its maxim, similia sirnilibu;;; curantur, presents, can
ever be the leading principle of an art, which justly claims to rest
on the minutest philosophical researches, and on the most unpre-
judiced and faithful experiences.
Though, with respect to the profession at large there is, as we
have seen, some truth in Hahnemann's assertion, that no sound
conception of the mode in which medicines operate has hitherto
existed, still this is by no means applicable to those distinguished
physicians of all ages, who have proved by their- practice and
writings, that they could well account for their rational djrections,
and that true talents will always elevate men above the standard of
their profession, and free them frop} the fetters of confining tenets.
Hahnemann justly censures also in his works, that in the text-
books on practical medicine, drugs which produce a totally different
and often an opposite.effect, are recommended by the highest au-
thorities fo~ one and the same disease; and vice versa, that one and
the samedrug is recommended, in the text-books on Materia Medica,
for different and even opposite maladies. B1,1t the conclusions which
he draws from these 'facts in favor of his doctrine are false, and the
contrary of his assertions will be evidently as true, by proving, as
we have attempted, the facts quoted, to arise from the want or
disregard of general principles, and from overvaluing the similarity
of symptoms which frequently depend on ~ery different or even
opposite causes. This. howeverdoes not imply the indirect admission
of the false conception, that one cause must always have different
effects, and vice versa; but all causes of diseases being a compound
of the vital reaction and the external agents, the immensely mul-
tiplied reactions of all parts constituting the organized living body,
varied also in every individual, and by the innumerable cir~um­
stan~ under which he at any moment exists, our senses cannot
observe minutely and distinguish the immense variety of the effects
and all their deeper or lighter ~hades, and that therefore, the
identity or ~pere similarity which experience presents to us, must
be exceedingly delusive, unless we refer chiefly to the more or less
prominent causes. It is evident also that, as Hahnemann solely
refers to the similarity between the symptoms of the drug-sickness
Digitized by Google
•
•
•
144
and those of the natura). disease, and makes the treatment of all
diseases to depend on this similarity; he believes either that an
ounce of bark or an atom of arsenic, &c., is equivalent to all the
influences which procreate the natural diseases, where the virtues of
bark, arsenic, &.c., are remedies, or admits that similar effects may
arise from two causes quite dissimilar, and widely different in their
power.
Hahnemann's repeated reproaches against the profession for im-
itating the salutary proceedings of nature in curing diseases, are
worthy of his foolish conceptions of the vital powers of nature,
already frequently quoted. Though we are far from invoking the
vis medicatrix naturre, or the healing power of nature: according to
the present mGde of many, as a deus ex machina, in cases of neces-
sity,• still we would wish that his reproaches were true, and that
physicians were really guilty of minutely listening to the operations
of nature, in order to learn, by what simple means and processes she
attains great ends; and how, when left undisturbed, she frequently
cures dise~s, which would never have prevailed so extensively, if
mankind had never strayed from her simple and true dictates.
Hahnemann was well aware, that all his whimsical suggestions in
regard to the developed virtues of drug-atoms, would not be adopted
for a moment, unless he boldly claimed for them an always abso-
lute and unconditional power, and no one but he could deny, that
* Putting out of view all teleological and metaphysical reflection~ about the end
and object of the existence of mortal beings, whi.:h we devotedly believe to be ihe
greatest happineas imaginable of every individual; the tendency of nature appeara, to
the naturalist and phys1cian, directed to the preservation of the whole apecies of Jiving
beinga, rather than to that of its individuate. Always acting on fixed, eternal laws,
nature will contribute to the deatruction of one individual aa well 88 to the preserva·
tion of another, leaving to the human intellect one of its principal antitheses of re·
flection, viz. Providence and abaolute necesaity.-The life of the tender fa.tus is
protected in the same moment and by the same law of nature by which another
individual periahe1; and the decrepid old man, tired of his long career, is reserved
from imminent danger by the 1ame operation of nature, 88 that by which the youtb.
fadea Jlrematurely away, in the prime of his cheerful life, by an inflammation of the
hem, consumption, etc. The same electricity, bursting forth in a thunder·storm,
kills and calla into existence thousanda of beings at the same moment.
" Res qu~eque suo ritu procedit, et omnee
" Fcedere natune certo diacrimine 1ervant." Luca.
We are therefore not ju•tified in terming the same power either healing or destroy-
ing, though the physictan should generally attend rather to the destructive than to the
healing power of nature ; eince the former prevaila more prominently in all diseases
than the latter, which, in its integrity, would, violent assaults excepted, never be
obliged to cure a disease, because it would alw11ys prevent it. This however should
neYer exempt him from minutely observing, when the healing direction of nature is to
be supported only by a cautious active treatment, or 88 generally might then be more
advisable, by the removal of all interference of the art.
o;91t1zed by Google
145
thoseare the most blessed priests of the healing art, who devo~ly
obey the voice of nature and her laws. But Hahneruaon's re-
proaches in regard to the treatment hitherto pursued by the mass of
the profession, are but too true, if we regard only the fac~, leaving
bii explanations unnoticed. The history of medicine teaches that
the profession has either been in favor of locating the proximate
cause of all diseases in some one ofthe three principal t!ystems of the
human body, viz. tbe sensitive, irritable and reproductive, or of
adopting metely local derangements. But few distinguit!hed mea
followed the example of a Sydenbam, Fried. Hoffman, l<~rost
Stahl, &c., in being mindful that nature, throughout her vast
empire, presents in her admirable simplicity the great~st varieties
and modifications of one and the same power, that the greatest
functional changes are frequendy produced by the ~:~lightest shades
in the formation of the individual part8, and that the results of our
directions will prove auspicious in the same pro~Jortion as we apply
general principles to iudividu~ cases. By neglecting this philoso-
phical scrutiny and ratiocination, indispensable to the promotion ol
the rational healing art, it remained for ages a more or less station-
ary empiricism, varying only in this, that when a sufficient number
had fallen victims to one method, another was adopted, and ca)·ried
again to the utmost extreme like the former, uutil the cycle of the
different modes at. the disposal of the profession had been completed,
and one of the old irrational modes of treatment was reconl-
menced.
Thus we have seen, in our times, patients of Brownit!ts die apo-
pletic, evidently in consequence of large doses of ~;timulants, while
the doctor regretted that the premature death of his patient, which
of course was considered accidental, did not allow l1im time for the
application ofstill nwre powerful stimulants. WtJ have seen anti-
phlt~gists repeatedly bleed their patients as long as blood would
flow from the vein, aud then death; vi:sibly promoted by iunnition
and exhaustion, was attributed to the feverish excitement, which in
tbe doctor's opinion was not enough abated, or to the imaginary
violent inflammation, which was not a>ufficieutly checked by the
lancet, leeches, cupping, &c.; be would have wished to revive the
patient only to renew the exhibition of his professional consistency. ·
Who could feel happier, who more satit~fied with the correct acut.e-
ness of his diagnosis, when even the post mortem examination.pal-
pably showed inllammation t)r one of it.o wmmou issue~:~1 'l'hat
19
Digitized by Google
•
•
146
these corperadelicti might have been producedbysucha nonsen~cal
mode of treatment, remained entirely out of the question. We
have seen gastricist.s torment their patients with emetics, cathartics,
calomel, salta, &e., until they expired, and then the inteUigent
doctor, in addition to the many bilious evacuations during lifetime,
almost always in such eases the artificial product of the illtreat-
ment, still referred to the thick yellowish coat on the tonguE'., to the
yellow hue of the corpse, &e., as mathematical proofs to him, that
death only ensued becausethe patient bad not been seen 'sufficiently
early, or bad not lived long enough, to swallow still larger doses of
calomel, jalap, castor oil, &c.
Some think themselves acting very prudent.ly, if ignorant of the
philosophical principles of the healing art, they try two opposite
methods in succession, falsely imagining that they can by such a
double rude empiricism best attain the desired end; if, for instance,
during an acute fever, the doctor is unsuccessful in subduing the
excitement by all the means of his antiphlogistic armory, he turns
to the other extreme, and fancying to revive the prostrated vital
forces, prescribes strong infusions of valerian, decoctions of bark,
ether, opium, cordials, &c. If the patient grows worse and dies,
the doctor will be satisfied, having offered to the patient, in his opin-
ion the best chance to escape from death, by opening for him the
two great highways of the profession for the salvation of their
patients ; if he fortunately recovers, the brilliant success will be
ascribed to the method now best liked by the physician; the next
patient will have to suffer by this method, and may not be lucky
enough to escape.
Some excuse their transition from one extreme to the other, by
pre~nding that the character of all diseases becomes altered by
atmospheric or telluric changes, every ten ort>rnore years. Who
would uot admit the existence of atmospheric influences, as seen in
epidemics, &e.? but these great changes have by no means been
contemporaneously ascertained by meteorological observations, nor
confirmed ·by those physicians, who have practised under the same
external conditions, and have remained faithful to their principles.
All these doctors considered their method to be the best, all ridi-
culed and pitied their opponents, because, in spite oftheir murderous
empiricism, some of their patients either recovered by their athletic
constitution, aided by occurrences fortunately beyond the control
of the doctor, or seem-ed at least to be radically cured, until after
Digitized by Google
147
tiOme time a serious relapse or another dangerous disease followed.
It is very natural that in many cases in which a disease threatened
to be long and dangeroul:l, and was checked in the beginning by
the judicious exertions of the physicians, his skilful prevention
remains unnoticed by the patient and his relatives, who, in conse-
quence of this easy and sudden recovery, could not be aware of the
danger from which the patient had escaped; and in fact an unpro-
fessional men would require a very minute knowledge ofthe healing
art, in which many doctors even are deficient, to be able to value
such a. case properly. The same may generally be expected, when
by the prophylactic care of the judicious family physician, the
members of a family enjoy for inany years excellent health,
when compared with other families, where the doctor has frequent
opportunity for brilliant cures. It is indeed difficult to explain
why, in medical practice, the talents of the physician and the su-
periority of his method are generally appreciated in direct proportioD
to the length and difficulty of the recovery, and why a patient whose
good luck alone may have saved him from death, is often regarded as
a splendid specimen of professional talent and care, when creeping
about for months on crutches like a shadow. And much less ex-
plainable must it appe11r, that people still possess any confidence in
the medical profession, when they observe the application ofone and
the same treatment under circumstances which they themselves
must consider widely different. If for instance a man falls down
asphyctic, whether in the severest cold of winter or in the extreme
hear of summer, whether he is apparently starved or has indulged
too much in food or drink, whether he appears to have previously
enjoyed good health, or has been rather reduced, &c., he must be
bled, and afterwards take, if possible, an emetic, &c. No onereason-
ably co.njectt~res that, although by these means he may be revived
for a short time, the vital powers may become soon extinguished,
when they might have been restored by an opposite mode.
The manner hitherto pursued, in order to· ascertain the effect of
medicines, was and is still very defective, and has led to almost the
same errors as those caused by Hahnemann's suggestions about
the effect of simple drugs; both believing definite drugs or medi-
cines especially adnpted to definite symptoms; allopathia however is
less defective, because its maxim, contraria contrariis, is far more
accordant with nature than that of homreopathia, though we must
add, with regret but with justice, that the former, i!l its practical mis-
D1g1tized by Google
148
applieation, has httrttrto generallyproved ~o be mnch more obnoxion11
than the latter ever will be, when faithfully pursued, if we may
ascribe a positive preference to anything of merely negative worth.
We venture to say that the text-books on Materia Medica have
done more injury than good to the promotion of rational medicine,
by definiog the positive action of drugs. It will always be so, be-
cause no systematical classification, no plan whatever adopted for
a Materia Medica, can answer the requisites of rational medicine.
The natural history of thedifferent drugs and their chemical qualities
exceptedr which may be easily combined with botany, chemi$try,
&c., this doctrine should cease to exist separately, and the snb-
<Jtance of it should be combinerl with general therapentM:s, this
philosophy of all pmctical mediCine, so much neglected in the
course of professional study; aod for the same reason general
therapeutics mould also take the place of special therapeutics, the
substance of which could be left with much greater advantage to
'!pecial pathology and clinical cour~es. The mistakes of Materia
Medica in defining absolate medical properties ofdrugs, and the ease
of applying them as specifics, have promoted a rude empiricism, and
these may beconsidered the causes, why the bene6t11which practical
medicine has hitherto derived from modern ~hemistry, consist
almost solely in a large addition to the already superabundant
stock of powerful drugs, which instead of beiflg a blessing to man·
kind, have frequently been in the hands of the rude empiric only
so many more instrumeuts of injnry.-" Subjectum istud medicinre
.. (corpus nimirum humanum) ex omnibus, qme natura procreavit
" maxime est capax remedii ; sed vici:<sinr illud Femedium maxirnt
"est obnoxium errori."-(Fr. Bacon.)
We have seen already, and shall explain more fulTy the manner
in which Hahnemano has treated thest! subjects, and how little the-
profession can trust to the results of his experiments and to his
suggestions. Should we credit some few trustworthy men among
his followers, we would be indebted to ftomreopathia for tfle know-
ledge of some substances, now applicable to different topical dis-
eases, which have hitherto been considered as acting only on whole-
systems of the human body. It however shows gross ignorance
and assumption, for the author of the " Concise View" and his
brethren to assert, that Hahnemann introduced as specifics into tht!
Materia Medica, such drugs as Digitalis, Pulsatilla, Belladonna, &e.
In the same manner as Mercury was known, long before his
Digitized by GoogIe
149
time, to act prominently on the lymphatic system, so w~ were ac-
quainted with the ed"ect of Digitalis upon the heart and the arte- .
ries, ofopium and similar narcotics upon the nervous, ofBelladonna
upon the uervo-muscular irritability, etc. Could we, however,
rely more confidently upon ·his experience at the bed-side of the
patient, we should owe to him the beneficial effects ofAconitum in
the genuine or plastic inflammation of the lungs, of Spongia in a
similar affection of the mucous membranes and ofthe glands ofthe
throat, of Pulsatilla, erroneously considered by the profession as
obsolete, for seme particular nervous affections of the eyes, etc. etc.
all of which exert not only a beneficial influence upon the morbid
disorders of a whole system, but act also specially upon the tissues
ofdifferent organs. But from the following statement, which repre-
sents the manner in which he instituted his experiments with drugs,
from those remarks which we shall give at the discussion of the
3d maxim, and from what we already know ofhis false statements
about Belladonna in scarlet fever, about Camphor and Copper in
Asiatic cholera, etc. we are sorry that we have only to record his
failures, his fancies, and his rude empiricism.•
* Since these remarks were written, we have seen an article in theNew·YorkCom-
mercial Advertiser of the 7th of February, 1834, addressed "to Parents," and signed
"a Citizen." It appears that this citizen had lost some children by acarlet fever,
under the medic~\~ trE>atment of an allopathist; and believing that be himself Rfter·
• ward had an attack of the same disease, and was saved by the bomceopathic treat-
ment with Belladonna, he thought it his duty to direct public attention to the "igno-
Rnce and obstinacy of the profession" generally, and to the great blessings which
homceopatbia secures to mankind, and especially to those attacked by scarlet fever.
In whatever manner the feelings ofa well educated unprofessional person may have
been affected, both by extraordinary misfortune and by gratitude to the man to whom
he thinks ltimself indebted for relief; it is utterly inconsistent with common sense as
well as with moral and delicatE' feeling, to publish such a remarkably frantic and ma-
licious article. We should have believed it impossible for 11ny citizen of this country,
unless he belonged to the lowest class of quacks, to disregard not only all the deco-
rum due to the highly respected class of physicians, but to injure. in such a foolish and
contemptible manner, the just feelings of those of his fellow citizens, who have been
or may be so unfortunatE' as to lose their children or relatives by the same scourge ;
anening, with the utmost and almost mathematical precision, that his own direful
aftlictions, and those of others also, would have been prevented by the homceopathic
trealfnent with Belladonna. We venture to express 11nd to vindicate the good sense
and just indigna~ion of an enlightened and abused community, in declaring, that we
have never read any pulolic11tion more unbecoming and false than thit Address to Pa-
rents. It &e'ems 1111 1f a red-hot homceopathist had made a tool of this infatuated
citizen, and profited also by this opportunity, to direct public attention to his marvel-
lous all-curing method, without the least regard to trudt, to the respect due to the pub-
lie at large, and to the profession in particular. We shall say nothibg of the citizPn'e
111011 f4U, and mao nothing about h18 brief biography of Hahnemann, as we have
given above a different but true statement of it. It must, however, appear very un-
lilir and inconsistent, that the gentlemen homceopathists ofthis country, who, like their
muter and brethren in Europe, deepise the most trust-worthy literary authorities
~hll agee, and the experience of the greatest practitioners, hail, from ignorance .or
mtentionally, each adventurer who enters their ranks, and take advantage of the 1g-
Digitized by Google
150
As it is material to any one who finds particular interest in the
results of physical experiments, to know in what manner they are
instituted, and as it must be our principal object, to provide tbe
norance of the public respecting foreign medical literature, to represent mom aa highly
distinguished physicians and authors, who arc in both respects as insignificant and un·
known in their respective countries a• they themselves are in this. In regard to the
German, French, and Italian doctors, who have adopted homreopathia, and whose names
are quoted by "the citizen," as the fir8t in the profession ; we repeat our former re-
mark, that they are quite obscure men. Hufeland excepted, not one of them, has any
pretensions to medical talent, or is distinguishfd or e\·en known in the medical litera·
ture of his own country, except, at farthest, as heing a practitioner or author on homreo·
pathia. Hufeland, who never was considt·rcd in Germany as " the patriarch of German
medicine," but who was merely and still is highly respected as a diftinguished author
and ph_vsician, neither claimed to be, nor .ever was admitted as the "leader" of the
profession there. Impartial to every medical system, 11nd upwards of40 years editor
of a valuable medical periodical, Hufeland was always more tolerant to the absurdest
snggestions than" truly inge11uous man and a zealous lover oftruth ought to have been.
He has nevertheless netJer declared in fatxn4r of homreopathia: on the contrary, like
all the public professors of medicine and surgery at Berlin, and in all other German
universities, a few insignificant men excepted, he has only recommended that •omeof
the topics of homreopathia, in regard to the maxim, "similia similibus curantur,"
might deserve a closer examination, since it appears to him possible, that in this way
also, the profession could obtain some beneficial results, and that perhaps many dis-
cordant opinions could be reconciled by it. (See Hufeland, die Lehre von den Hei·
lungs-objecten und ihrer Erkenntniss, oder die Jatrognomik. Ein Versueh zur Ver·
einigung der Aerzte, Berlin, 1829.) Hahnemann's "great truth," contained in biJ
work on chronic disea&es, was at that time not yet known to Hufeland, otherwise be
probably would have given a less liberal opiuion of Hahnemannism. We can as·
sure our renders, tb~t most of the German physicians, who- felt, like ourselves, in
duty bound repeatedly to try belladonna 11s a preventive against scarlet fever, becau!f.
it could not do harm, even in the dose first prescribed hy Hahnemann, (which is many
hundred million times larger orsmaller than th,e dose he now beliP.ves to be too strong
or too weak) have declared this drug ineffectu'ti u a preventive and still more sou a
remedy. The scarlet fever still prevails in Germany, as can bl! ascertained from the
latest German medical works and periodic11ls ; and perhaps likewise from those causes·
to which we have alluded in our remarks upon the dangers of vaccin11tion, with
greaterviolence than !tditlbefore Hahnem11nn's insignificant dis-:overy. Dr. Kopp also,
who, as we have mentioned above, is the only German homrepathist, ifwe dare call him
eo, who has been distinguished as an author and practitionP.r before he examined this
method, states, in reg•rd to the u.re of Belladonna in sc11rlet fever, (on p. 326 of his
work above cited,) "According to my frequent experiments I must declare it to be a
" very unsafe preventive, and by no means comparable with vaccination," as Hab·
nemann would make all the world believe, espt•cially at that time, when he intended
to make a fortune, by using Belladonna as an arcanum. Those Germbn physicians
who have employed belladouna as a preventive, have not used it as a remedy for scarlet
fever ; sinceHabnemann himself bas recommended this drug at first, mer.ty as a pre·
ventive of this disease and not as a remedy for it : and in later times, when he recom·
mended it also as a remedy, he made it to depend on a very minute distinction
between the scarlatina levigata and miliaria, which does not usentially exiat.-
No professional man of a but limited practice will acknowledge any material difference,
simply between these two form• of scarlet fever; and this may also serve as a proofthat
Hahnemann was never enga!(ed in any extensive practice, but has formed his concep-
tions by hunting for antiquated literary curiOsities and b.v his own inventions. We
would suggest that both forms ofthe same disease, with all its symptoms, dangers, ele.
(although the miliaria is in the first stage less dangerou1 than the levigata,) appear
to depend on a 'higher or lower degrev of atmospheric electricity ; as the damp at·
mosphere in northern Germany is less electric than the atmosphere in the northern
states of America, the miliaria is more frequent there, while the levigata is more usual
here : in very cold and dry winters, however, we frequently met with the levigata in
Germany. Perhaps both forms depend only on the predominant positive or negative
atmospheric electricity, producing an effect upon the human body, distantly similar to
Lichtenberg's figures of both eiP.ctricitiAs.-It is very singular that homreopath·
Digitized by Google
lSI
impartial reader of these pages with all the means necessary to
judge for himself, what con6dence might be reasonably placed in
the correctness of Hahnemann's experiments, aud stiiJ more in all
isla speak at all of scarlet fever, since, 88 we have seen, Hahnemann forbids them to
give a name to a disease which ia similar to one of the older schools; and consistent·
ly, instead of scarlatina levigata, anti purpura miliaria, they should speak only of an
aconite and a belladonna-~ickuess.--Dr. Kopp, the infatuated admirer of Hahnemann's
genius, who has used Belladonna in scarlet fever, says, ou page 327. I. c. where he
ridicules lilhnemann's fanciful distinction just mentioned:-" I frequently treated
" patients ~ffering from scarlatina according to the homreopathic method, with bl'lla-
" donna, mercury, etc. and in general I have not noticed unfavourable result•. Severe
" cases, and those which were dangerous, have not been arrested by it, and required
"chlorine in large doses, cold foult'ntations to the head, sinapism•, etc."-Jo'uture
times will prove still more, that the cure of scllrlet fever depends upon a minute ra-
tional treatment, and upon a regime different from that still pursued in many conn·
tries by highly obnoxious popular prejudices, rather than upon any 8pecifo;, and le~st
of all, upon an infinite atom of belladonna ; though this powerful drug, like all others,
may prove beneficial in the -rational treatmem of scarlet fever, under peculiar circum-
stances, which prescribe the most rigorous antiphlogistil' as well as the quite opposite
treatment, particularly in its differP.r.t stages.-·The well known experiments on which
this accidental discovery of Hahnernann rests, deserve Jlllrticular notice, in }'roving
his inability to institute minute and impartial experiments, and much less to draw
sound conclusions from them. The berries of belladonna are by no means the only
substance which produces in healthy persons an eruption on the akin, very remotely
similar to scarlet fever; many other narcotic plants, especially if taken in qu•ntities
sufficiently large to act as poisons, frequently cause the same : thus we remember a
similar eruption in a whole family, poisoned by thorn-apple seeds boiled in milk, instead
of the seeds of the fennel-flower, (Nigella sativa, L.) which were intended as a domestic
medicine. We remember also, thirty-five years ago, a remarkable instance of a stout
man, upwards of seventy years old, in whom, after taking two drops of laudanum for
diarrhrea, an eruption appeared, similar to scarlatina levigata, only without fever, but
ending, like scarlet fever, with the desiccation of the skiu: and two years after, the
same consequences followed, in the same man, from one drop of laudanum only. It
ia also well known, that some persons and whole families, at least in Germany, expe-
rience the same symptoms wheneYer they eat craw-fish or clams, and sometimes even
on taking the prepared crabs-eyes, which are used as a domestic diaphoretic and anti-
acid medicine. Must these and many other substances, therefore, not likt:wise be
consistently considered as remedies for the smooth scarlet fever, How great ia,
moreover, often the difference between the fruit of a plant and its root, leaves, or
other parts! the one may act in one way, the other in a different manner on the hu-
man body. De Candolle (Organographic vegetale, vol. II.) states, that in every plant,
the most poisonous not excepted, the endospermium and cotyledones con~ain no poi·
son, but always a farinaceous substance, which may serve as wholf'some nourish-
ment for men and anim:ils. Was Hahnemann consistel'lt in prescribing only the ber-
riu of belladonna, or their juice, against scarlet fever 1 No ! On page 11 of vol I.
ef his Materia Medica, he orders expressly the juice of the whole plant to be taken
while it is in blossom ; of course then without the berries, the very object of his first
discovery. This is objectionable only in respect to liomreopathie, which boasts of
such great regard to trifles ancl minutim, since the medical virtues are contained in
the herb and in the root of belladonna much more than in its berries. The root
being by far the stron@"est, Hahnemann, in prescribing the many billionth part of one
grain, appears, therefore, 88 usual, particularly i!lconsistent in prescribing to take tile
whole plant without the berries.--We regret particularly, tbat a public paper with so
large a circulation, has consented to become the inhuman instrument for spreading
a collection of statements so alarming, so void of truth, and so redolent with charla-
taniem, without such previo11s inquiries 88 we think due to the public in such cases.
In fact, the impudent advertisement of a quack, persuading the public tbat he alone
can cure all patients easily and quickly of a disease which has so frequently proved
fatal under the most judicious treatment of the greatest physician• of all countries
and ages, supporting his infallible cures, ofcour~e, by a sufficient number ofpublic tes-
timonials, must appear contemptible ; how m&ch more so when men abuse, uuder the
hypocritical cloak of patriotism and modest professional philanthropy, the ignorance and
Digitized by Google
152
the infe~.~euces drawn from them by him and his followers, we shall
give an instance of his original experiments with drugs, instituted
in healthy persons in order to produce a drug-sickness.
We purposely select the experiments made with Peruvian
bark, as a drug best known. (See according to Kopp I. c. p. 55,
Organon §. §. I6 and I32 of the third, and ~ 120 of the fourth
edition.) In order to excite a bark-fever, which may last for seve-
ral days, the healthy person most take, in the course of ~e day, a
mixture made ofone ounce of powdered bark, with five ounces of
alcohol and two pounds of water. This will be taken best before
breakfast, and according to circumstances, this do::e may be in-
creased to twice, (§ I33 old edition,) or even four times as much,
(§ 134 ibid.) Now we candidly ask, wbo can wonder that from
experiments, instituted principally in this manner, only II43 bark-
symptoms are recorded in Hahnemann's materia medica, as we
might confidently expect several thousand symptoms in addition
to those mentioned, if all are minutely written down from the re-
ports of a healthy person, unaccustomed to such stimuli, and in-
toxicated for many hours by twenty ounces of alcohol and four
ounces of powdered bark ; especially if this person was such a
stupid, credulous and infatuated disciple, as the above mentioned
Bohemian barber, or any one else, prepossessed and anxious to
satisfy the tiresome cross-examinations and the absurd expectations
of sucb a master? Our "great medical genius," who, according
to the enraptured Dr. Hering, (1. c. p. II)" now stands forth as
"a conqueror" who, (1. c. p. 27) "has beaten a new path on all
"sides;" and (1. c. p. 2I) by" whose carefulattention to minutia
folly of a distressed, infatuated man, and induce him publidy. to say, exactly in the
following terms, that " Samuel Hahnemaan has swept away from medicine, as Isaac
"Newton did from Astronomy, the huge mass ofintellectual lumber that bad clogged
" it fur centuries ;"that "belladonna was, when adn•iniatered accordiug to the direc·
"tion of its discoYerer, a cert<in established sovereign cure for the scarlet fever : ~­
that " it has been in general use, as such, on the Nntinent of Europe since 1811 :"
-that " scarlet fever has Ct!ased to be an object of terror in these countries ;" and
that "in the presP-nt state ofmedical science, every victim by ecarlet fever was a wan·
ton sacrifice of human life to medical obstinacy, or to involuntary medical ignorance.'
We wtsh from our heart, that all patients suffering from this dangerous disease may
recover by belladonna, or by any other treatment. But what can such an impostor
nr infatuated simpleton, who palpably guided the pen ofthis "citizen," say for his de·
feace, if, jn spite of such impu•lence, he himself loses even his ·near relattves hy
scarlet fever when homroopathically treated 1···" Where authority is from one man to
" another, there the secoad must be ignorant and not learned and full of thou;;bts;
" and such are, for the most part, all superstitious persons, whose belief, tied to their
" teachers and traditions, are no whit controlled, either by reasou or experience."····
Fr. Bacon.
Digitized by Google
15:J
" a new er.a has dawned upon all the natural sciences," this very
man, who considers the .decilliontk part of ~ grain ofcommon
table salt in many cases as too strong, is pleased to call tweni!J
"ounces of alcohol,'and four ounces of puwdered bark, swallowed
" in afew hours, andeven before breakfast," as a mere nothing, and
instead of calling the 1143 symptoms elicited by the cross-exami-
nation of such a person by their right name, the uttering• of an
intoxicated person, he ·is pleased to call them " bark-fever S!Jmp-
"toms,"-"Dialectorum verba nulla sunt publica, suis utuntur,"
(Cicero.)-Hahnemann,who recommends for his homreopathic so-
lutions, (see Organon § 267, and Chronic Diseases,) alcohol
strong enough to ignite a piece of spunk, (which can be done
only by the strongest alcohol), consid~rs this substance as utterly
indifierent, and as the least apt to change tht> qualities of simple
drugs. This opinion, the experiments similar to those just quoted,
connected with his suggestion above cited, viz. that persons become
less liable to diseases in proportion to the number of different ho-
mreopathic trials made on them with simple drugs, and his theory
that all chronic diseases depend mostly on itch-all these state-
men·ts and assertions together may justify our inference, that ac-
cording to the tenets of homreopathia, a person might constantly
indulge in drinking brandy, or any other spirituous drink, without
the least injury to his health. This contradicts the remark of Dr.
Hering, who says on page 26 of his " Concise View," "Hahne-
" mann considers all spirituous drinks as positively injurious," and
.demonstrates still more clearly his attempts to render thereby also
his "new art ofhealing" as palatable as possible to the enlightened
people of this country, byyielding in this manner to the prejudices
of the temperance-or rather abstinence-societies, although these at-
tempts are no~ required by his doctrine.• As a faithful homreopa-
• No one will consider us adverse to any measures for promoting temperance,
though we are not in favour of total abstinence, and cannot see the propriety of join-
ing a society as a particular inducement or obligation to live temperately, any more
than to join other societies for exercising other virtues, which we arc bound to observe
from religious and moral feelings and principles. Intemperance in spirituous drinks
. is very detrimental both in a moral and physical point ofview, and its had consequences
are generally irreparable. Those who are still doubtful of the correctness of this asser-
tion, should seriously direct their attention to the severe lesson, which thA wisdom of
Providence has given them by the Asiatic cholera, since in all countries and under the
most different medical treatments, very few intemperate individuals were cured. Intem-
perate persons also by the habitual over-excitement of their nervous system are not
only unable to bear the higher degrees of heat and cold as well as temperate ones,
but there exists toour knowledgA, no instance where asphyctics by cold, when intoxi-
cated, have been restored to life, whils~ the contrary has often been the case wiLh
20
Digitized by Google
154
thist, uninfluenced by other motives, be most have been aware, that
unless a man feels religious and moral obligations to live temperate-
ly, as every prudent man should do, tbe principal ~becks are remov-
ed rather than increased by Hahnemann. Should any one believe
our interpretation incorrect and partial, he may consider how
often Dr. Hering and his homreopathic brethren assure the public
o(tbe infallibility of homreopatbia, that he says on p. 25, a false
selection ofa drug cannot doinjury; (on p. 21,) that error uimpor-
lible, etc.; and the same assurances are still more given by Hahne-
mann, for instance, in vol. iv, p. 19 of his Mat. Med. second edi-
tion, where he says, that all experience will prove to every body,
that a drug selected according to his manner, " wiiJ not only
"change the disease into health easily and durably, bot it fDill
" neverleave any one uncured;" and in voJ. iii,p. 7 ofthe same work,
" Ifall that the Jwmaopatkic doctri11epromises, provided iti&faitA-
" fully purmed, does not exactly takeplace-then homreopathia is
"considered to be lost."-If therefore, our interpretations in re-
gard to all other as&ertions and direction& of Hahoemann cannot
be considered exaggerated, a man prone to intemperance, can now
confidently expect that, if after all he should fall sick in conse-
quence of this vice, he will be cured safely and quickly by the
virtue developed from a few atoms of a drug.
With due reverence for the great effect of religious and moral
principles, in preventing moral faults simply by their great intrinsic
value, we must admit, that hitherto Providence has ordained
both moral and physical happiness to be generally the rewards ofa
pious and virtuous life, while vices cause much physical unhappi-
ness, sufferings and misery, and that this merciful order of things
has unquestionably hitherto deterred many from evil habits, and
especially from the source of all vices, intemperance. Should
homreopathia, always so superior to the stupicl and miserable vital
powers of nature, shake in this case also, the belief and confidence
of many, in the old order of things, it would become at least indi-
directly instrumental in promoting intemperance and all other
temperate individuals, a~ter apparen~ death. had lasted fo~ upwards ofthree days. For
the same reasons profe.ssiOnal men will find 1t by far ~ore d1fficult, to restore men, givea
to dr.unkenness, to theu health when affected by diseases, than men of sober habits.
The alcohol of all spirituous drinks, entering when used in excess into the mixture of
~he blood, into the brain,. muscles, etc., is als.o th~ only ca?se of the many shocking
J~stances.of self-combustion. Int~mperance 1sa VIC~ pecuhar to man, which deprives
h1m, by h1s own voluntary act, of h1s noblest prerogative, reason; it is therefore in itself
the worst and molt l:ilntemptible kind of auicide, to which it so often iut.lirec tly loJads.
o;g,llzed by Coogle
155
vices, Hahnemann and his adherents have much to answer for, as
they encourage this great evil.-We canuot well boast of our great
predilection for this Abracadabraof the nineteetb century, nor do we
like to display our philanthropy. But, nevertheless, it may easily
be imagined what grief we felt that such " a treasure," like this
" new art of healing," by which, according to the hopes and ex-
pectations of Dr. Hering, (p. 29, 1. c.), "future generations will be
" rescued from its leaden fetters, the bitterest human misery-
'' disease bearing down all earthly joy, become less from year to
" year, and·the sweelest boon on earth-health and domestic feli·
" city become the portio& of growing thousands here as well as in
" Germany,'' should not be able to compensate 'in.a manner fully
worthy of its exalted destiny, for the great injuries and inconveni-
ences, just named, of which it is the innocent cause. We feel
happy to state, that we have hit upon such a eompensation, .and
we hope that it will not be amiss .to suggest here to the ·~ great
" benefactor of mankind," and to his followers, a plan by which
they can nobly and munificently atone for this evil attending their
doctrine if generally adopted, and whieh plan is also intimately
connected with their maxim, " sirnilia similibus curantur."
The political emancipation of the coloured population, now agi-
tating the whole civilized world, is the very field assigned to Hah-
nemann and his benevolent doctrine. The celebrated naturalist,
profe~or Link, of the Berlin University, in his interesting work,
"the Primitive World," (die Urwelt), considers tbe African as the
original race of mankind, and all other men, especially the whites,
as a variety of the negro, physically degenerated by one tir more
unknown causes ; perhaps by a constitutional afiection, which once
generally prevailed; resembling to that by which the Leukaethiopes
or Albinos become so anomalous from the whites. We do not
exactly recollect by what reasons and deep learning he supports
this strange opinion, though it might be noticeed, that coloured men
grow much lighter when sick, and also. that many instances are
recorded, where white persons have become perlnaneutly black,
without any material injury to their health, after a violent fit
of anger, fright, or a similar mental excitement. It is also well
known that by the inftue~ce of northern climates, many animals,
coated with a dark skin in southern countries, turn white; without
any other observable anomaly. Be this as it may, those who
coosider this metamorphosis of the human re.ce to be as fanciful as
I .
Digitized by Google
151)
are all the arguments of the learned naturalist, on account of the
great difference in the mental capacities between the white and the
negros, as stated by many, may perhaps become more convinced of
this important hypothesis, iftheybelieve Hahnemann's "greattruth,"
about the antiquity of the far-spread itch, and especially if they
advert to the fact, that the mental capacities of individuals have
frequently improved after recovering from a serious constitutional
disease. Now it is also a fact, that lunar caustic or nitras argenti, if
taken by whites,even in small allopathic doses, will cause a perma-
nently blackish hue over the whole skin, without any particular
danger. In accordance with the hornreopathic maxim, similia si-
milibus curantur, we therefore should not doubt for a moment
that, ifa black individual takes a homreopathic dose of lunar caus·
tic, it might change the black skin white, as well as it turns the
white skin black. Should this experiment succeed, as it probably
will, (though it has, to our knowledge, not yet been tried), since the
conformity of homreopatbia with the laws of nature is established,
it will be highly advantageous to the coloured population, especially
in countries where they now live politically emancipated amongst
whites, and since, probably, no law will for centuries be effectual
enough to extinguish opinions and prejudices, as we may term such
deeprooted impression1l, so long as they are entertained by visible
physicalmarks; andas reciprocally,everydisadvantageousdistinction
will perpetuate the moral faults which naturally originate from such
prejndices, unworthy of all trnlyreligious and moral feeling. Every
body must admit this to be extremely deserving of the noble-
minded homreopathist ; though under the supposition that this
will be effected solely by a slightly artificial disease, they would be
obliged, from human~ty, to deviate, in these cases ooly, from their
usual benevolent mode of transmuting all diseases into health.
Hahnemanu, who was probably himself not aware that his great
discoveries would likewise benefit so large a number o' healthy
human beings, over such large sections of the globe, has incon·
sciously removed the great obstacle to its success, and confirmed
by this also, what Dr. Hering emphatically predicted, when saying,
on page 27," Thus has Hahnemann beaten a new path on all
" sides. Hisadmirable observations and manifold experience have
" constantly advanced the new art, created by hi11 instrumentality,
" and every ye~r brings with it fresh proofs of his genius." The
only serious .objection to this unique salutary morbid process
Dig1t1zed by Coogle
157
is \his; that 8.f! lunar caustic is a remedy for epilepRy, or the
falling sickness, it might produce this direful disease in the white-
washed negro. Hahnemann removes this fear, by suggesting in
his Materia Medica, Vol. IV., that the beneficial effects of lunar
caustic in epilepsy, depend not upon the silver, but the copper
contained in it, and therefore declares that copper and not silver
is the real homreopathic drug in epiJepeia. Though he made, as
we have seen a similar declaration with regard to Asiatic chole-
ra, in his second edition for its infallible cure, namely, to cajeput-
oil; and although no " over-refined" chemist can conceive what
copper has to do with pure lunar caustic, the faithful homreopathists
wilJ, however, not doubt it: They will Wlquestionably simplify
the experiment, by substituting the virtues developed from me-
tallic silver, since Hahnemann prefers al99 the latter to the lunar
caustic, and believes it to be very soluble in the stomach juice;
we believe him in such instances more than on any other topic, since
he was, during his whole life, a particularly good judge of metallic
gold and silver, and could always metamorphose them in auccum
et sanguinem.-ShouW the collateral homreopathic effect of
silver prove too strong in regard to the falling sickness, though a
little touch of it may beneficially counteract the premature a88ump-
tion of the present generationofthe emancipated negro,-we would
advert to the highly interestingdiscovery, lately made by Dr. Wer-
neck, of Salzburg, according to which- all bad consequences of
poiSQning by metallic substances, of course if they do not consist
in organic destruction, can be cured by the proper application of
electricity. Whites, with a blackish hue of the skin from lunar
caustic, may therefore now expect to acquire their old white colour
again, as well as negroes, who are too much·affected or dissatisfied
'in being homreopathically white-washed, their old deep sooty one.
This proposed measure would finally cost nothing, if we consider
what the largest homreopathic dose is, in comparison with 'be allo-
pathic one of twenty millions of pounds sterling, granted by the
bighminded Britons for the political emancipation of the coloured
population in t.he British dominions. The properly developed vir-
tue of a penny-worth of silver, would be more than sufficient for
all the negroes in Ameiica. We rnay leave it to the distinguished
arithmetical acquirements of Hahnemann and Dr. Hering, of
which we have above quoted some remarkable specimens, to de-
termine how many penny pieces will be necessary to whitewash
Digitized by Google
158
the whole Afr~ean population; provided they would accept this
benefit from their white homreopathic brethren.-Difficile est sa-
tyram non scrihere!
In following our su~ject we must prove, even admitting for a
moment the second homreopathic maxim, similia similibus curan-
tur, to be fully correct, in these, that it is not only contradicted by
Hahnemann himself and by his doctrine, but also that it is utterly
impossible inprazi, strictly to comply with its imperative requisites.
For this purpose we shall direct the attention of the indulgent
reader to the following quotations from Dr. Hering's pamphlet,
in addition to those quoted above from page 24.-0n page 21 be
says, " Nothing indeed but the symptoms are to be accepted, as
"·the guide to the treatment of the disease, because, in them alone,
" no error is possible," and ibid. " but so much more necessary it is
" that every case of disease should be completely comprehended in
"all its symptoms, and with great accuracy," and on pages 21 and
22, "aU the circumstances under which any complaint arises or
" disappears, increases or diminishes ; whether in motion or at
'' rest, in certain situations and postures, whethe,r by warmth or
" cold, in the open air or in the room, by light, by noises. by talk-
" ing or thinking, eating or drinking, touch or pressure, emotions
" of the mind or mental exertions,-all must be taken into account.
" Sensations on falling asleep, during sleep and on waking, the
"posture during sleep; even the dreams and the kind of them,
"' whether of falling, of ftying, of fire, of noises, of hunger, of motion,
" of seeing frightful objects, &c., all belong to the image of the
"disease, and any one of which, may not unfrequently~ the de-
" ciding symptom," and on page 22, " regard being paid to the
" patient's mental c.onstitution and temper," &.c.
Hahnemann himself urges all these conditions also as the very
essence of his doctrine, in innumerable places of his writings, espe-
cially in his Organon and ih his Materia Medica. Among others
he says, "the condition of the mind and humor of the patient
"materially decide the selection of a remedy, the choice of it de-
"pending principally upon the psychical symptoms ofthe diseased
" person." We cannot oonceive ho'w these directions could be well
complied With, and how the remarks just quoted can be reconciled
with the expressions .of Hahnemann in many parts of his works,
especially in his Organon, from § 156 to § l76, where he tries to
demonstrate, in contradiction to his own and Dr. Hering's eugges-
Digitized by Google
1!:9
tiona, that at the bedside of the patient the homooupnthi@t must
sometimes be satisfied with jere, and even with a very few charac-
teristic symptoms. On page 225 t 158 of the Organon be say~.Z,
" The small number of homooopathic symptoms, observable in the
"best selected drugs, does not however impede the cure, 1oleen these
"fetJJ sympt(Y(M are of an uncommon kind, and particularly
"distinctive ofthe disease, (characteristic ;) the cure will never-
" theleee be effected without particular difficulty."-After the ex-
plicit expositions of Hahnemaon and hie worthy disciple cited
above, that all symptoms collectively, up to the most minute, are
indispensably required, in order to know the true character of the
case, or to form afaithful W.age of the disease, as a true copy of
the corresponding drug-sicknel!@, there exists no characteristic
symptom, or signum pathognomonicum of the profession, for the
homooopathist, as the totality of the symptoms in the natural
disease, when compared with the totality of the drug-symptoms, .
without any superior or inferior value of one or more symptoms,
constitute the whole character of every disease in homooopathia.
We observe in all the experiments, instituted by Hahnemann with
drugs on healthy persons, very few in which the drug-sickness
did not present at least a hundred, and frequently many hundreds
ami even upwards of 1400 symptoms, among-which none nre par-
ticularly distinguished by him as principally ch11racteristic of all
others, or as pathognomoni~al; it is therefore a gru,.::~ inconsistency,
first to make t.he perfect similarity between the t~ymptoms of the
drug,-and disease-sickness minutely dependent upon one another,
and to say that the salutary-success of the treatment will only be
secured if both exactly coincide, and to curtuil and retract after-
wards the same requisites. It is impos~Sible to comprehend, how
the faithful homreopatbist can suffer any deduction of symptoms,
without destroying the only foundation of bill diaguosis, and with-
out exposing hia treatment to mere chance. Every syllable of the ·
homreopathic symptomatology substantiates, that by &he least
deduction of symptoms, and of course proportionally by a larger
one, the faithful homreopathic practitioner, will experience the
greatest difficulties and when mistaken in his diagnosis, from the
want of sufficient symptoms, will find too late that be was
deprived ofthis hie only compass on the vast ocean of all his drug-
no dnatural-sieknesses. On a minute scrutiny of Habnemann's
Materia Medica, we observe that, two large catalogue.~ of two drugs,
causing upwards of a thousand symptoms each, coincide. by two-
Digitized by Google
160
thirds, others often by seven-eighths and sometimes still more with
each other.-It would be too tiresome for the reader as well as for
us, to extract here side by side, this coincidence, which as we have
stated, arises principally from this, that the subjective sensations
and feelings of the persons, constitute by far the larger part, when
compared with those symptoms, objectively obvious to the physi-
cian ; every one may compare them in the works quoted and in
Hahnemann's Treatise on Chronic Diseases.-From a comparison
between three homreopathic drugs and their corresponding three
diseases, in order to arrive at the similarity between their symptoms,
it will become evident, that if, for instance, we find one thousand
symptoms belonging to the first drug, 900 to the second, and 800
to the third, 800 of which are alike in all three, that the first and
second are only distinguished relatively by 200 and 100 symptoms
from the third ;-now if. this,deduction is made from the symp-
toms of the first and second drug, and two natural diseases before
us do not offer more and other symptoms than have remained after
this deduction,each ofthe latter must be confounded with each ofthe
former,and thus thetrue diagnosis ofthe diseases must be impossible.
Even if we admit to homreopathists the existence of pathognomo-
nical symptoms in the sense of allopathia, it is inconsistent with
their doctrine to conjecture, that these symptoms only should .
always be left, and that the others of minor value may be deducteJ,
since they think that the latter also contribute to form the true
image of the dis~nse, and that the different expressions of the older
schools, symptomata causre, symptomata symptomatum, &c.,
belong to the most foolish and detrimental prejudices of allopathia.
Should the adoption of characteristic symptoms be fully sufficient
to point out a disease in bomreopathia, Hahnemann's display of
so many symptoms would be still more ridiculous, as contributing
only to enlarge the symptomatology of the older schools, witltout
the great advantages which the latter nfford by their important
reference to the causes.
Had Hahnemann ever consistently acknowledged the wotbr of
characteristic symptorus, he would have made the diagnosis more
easy and certain by a particular regard to them, whether be bad
adopted those established as pathognomical symptoms by the mi-
nute observations ofthe older schools, or had suggested new ones,
drawn from his pretended discoveries; he would then have classi-
fied his natural diseases, as all authors on special pathology and
Digitized by Google
161
thentpetilics du, and by coulparing the cliatacterilltic syanptomS'
of natural diseases with those of drug-11ickuess1 he would have
prevented those great mistakes to which his follower~:~ are now ex-
posed, it being left to t'heir judgment what they may consider as
tbaractetistic or not. Thus, under tbe head of any name given
to a disease, he would have also pointed out the gt·aduatiM in the
value of its symptoms. But this is not seen in Hahnemaon's works,
though Dr. Hering (c. v. p. 25)' speaks of different grad«;s aud of
a relative value. On the contrary, by stating all the symptoaus
elicited by his experiment:; without any graduation, and by his·
aversion to th~ names of diseases, he palpably disft·usts the worth
of cltaracteristic symptoms, and only adopts them, as he adopts aud
rejects every thing, when it suits his convenience. Thus, if any
one says, "This drug must only be given to a: person of such or
such peculiar form, with certain definite features, with a little war(
on the right ~heek shaped ISO and so, and a. small pi111ple on the·
left one, coloured so and so, etc. etc. just like the image I have·
given you, in order to ascertain all exactly; you are earnestly
forbidden to accou·nt for the least deficiency of the quoted symr-
toms by reasoning; and unless you find all thi~tgs exactly as I
have Rtated, you cannot administer this drug, without fhe great-
est probability that you will injure, perhaps kill the patient;" these·
being exactly the directions of Hahnemann and Dr. Hering, ac-·
cording to the quotation mentioned above: we ask, can the con-
scientious homreopathist, to whom t!Jis task is confided, allow nny
deduction to be made of forty, sixty, or, as Hnhnemann says, even
of upwards of ninety-six per cent. from the drug-symptoms of his
drug-sickness catechism ; can he administer the drug with any
prospect of cure, when called to a patient, whose disease does no(
exactly r~semble the image ; nay ! who might perhaps present one
or two only of upwards of 1400 drug symptoms ?---'By such a·
re-.duction of characteristics in natural history, there would be no
difference between a flea and an elephant.
In overlooking in Hahnemann the great nonsense, wliicb1 as we
have seen, his interpretation of sln1ilia similibus curantur involves;
it is at least evident that he substitutes for the old axiam "cessante·
causa cessfat etiam effectus," its reverse, "cessaute effectu cessnt·
eliam causa." This great nonsensical 1J,sgov .rgorsgov of the human•
.intellect and· of all· experience, has put him· in the dilemma, eitllelf
21
Digitized by GoogIe
,
162
to insist. upon the indispensability of his symptomatology, and of
all the minutim connecf.tJl with it, without admitting the !east d~
duction ; or to decide merely by his authority that. the fundamental
maxim of his doctrine, proclaimed by him as the law of nature,
admits of exceptions, although every rational person must admit
that it is thus totally subverted. As long as be did not deviate
from his repeated assertions, that the minutest symptomofthe drug-
sickness materially belongs to the true image of the disease, as
well as the mJnutest lineament belongs to a true portrait, or as
tho definite situation of the many pieces of coloured glass exactly
belong to a definite figure in the kaleidoscope, be· was, at least,
consistent; but when he admits that some and even many symp-
toms may be missing, without material injury to the safest treat-
ment, or still more, as we shall see soon, that all chronic diseases,
amounting in his catalogue to upwards of 400, depend onlg on OM
latent and therefore imperceptible, or rather on no symptom ; then
we must declare that he himself has evidently destroyed the great-
at support of his whole doctrine, even in the eyes of his most.
4evoted adherents, provided they are impartial and reasonable.
By advert.ina however, to the quotations above cited from the'
Concise View, we see that its author still follows wiiA consistency
the original maxim of his master, as he appears unw~lling to ad:
mit of any deduction. But then we cannot comprehend how be
ean even partially fulfill the following promises, given in the com-
mon unworthy language of his fellowship on page 25. '• The
" most acute and dangerous diseases, as inflammation of the lungs,
"pleurisy, in6ammation of the brain and liver and of the ear, apo-
" plexy and convulaions, most of the diseases of children, and
"even the most malignant forms of typhus are the easiest of all in
"the choice of a remedy." Let us leave unnoticed the substance
of lhese rhodomontades, worthy only of a man of that class in
which the author has ranged himself, by the whole te~or of his
Concise View ; .Jet us for the present suppress that just indignation
which every man ofsound morals and feelings will share with us.
when he sees proclaimed by a well ~ucat~ professional man, the
promise&, that most of the diseases ofchildren, and even the most
~ignant forms of typhus are the easiest ofall in the choiceofa
remedy, and of cour~e also to.cure ; brags more characteristic thaa
any hommopathic symptom..of tim.es long past, when the oddly-
o;9~tized by Google
163
dressed doctor proclaimed from his stage in market·place11, to the
gaZing public, bow wonderfully he can cure all diseMee! Can any
one imagine, that a human being could, under all circumstances,
comply with the mentioned requisites of a correct homreopatbie
diagnosis without divination '1
How few individuals possess a perfect knowledge of themselves
and of their own mental and moral dispositions '1-a knowledge
so rare, that the inscription on the Appollonian temple at Del-
phi, "rv~~~~· d&a.JWIIY," "know thyself," struck the mind of .one of
the wisest Greeks, and is still considered, hy all philosophers,
as the highest attribute of human wisdom. How few patients can
express their feelings, and minutely relate the numerous sym~
toms occurring during an attack of a severe disease 1 Is it not ri-
diculous to expect, for instance, from a senseless apoplectic, or from
one affected by malignant typhm fevw, generally attended with
violent delirium, only oneofthe multitudeofreports alluded to above
as indispensable for selecting a proper drug? How very few, if
any, of the fair sex would condescend to open the remotest re-
cesses of their thoughts and feelings, and to permit the young
priest of lEsculapius to institute a minute examination, for nscer-
tainillg whether a small wart, or something like it, be located on
the shoulder or elsewhere !
We have already stated, that the large stock of words and ex-
pressions in one of the richest languages up()n earth, the German,
proved insuffitient for Hahnemnnn properly to render the terms of
his symptomatology. The numerous and frequently barbarous ex-
pressions of all shades of feelings, never hetlrd of before, make it
difficult for o. well-educated German; even if he be minutely ac·
quainted with the different provincialisms of his native country, to
understand o.ll the singular terms and expressions of Habnemann's
t~ymptomatology, many of which are newly created-by him: and
unless he, as well as his patient, attentively study them for a long
time, it must be almost impossible for a German homceopathist to
practise with the requisite exactness, even in his native country.
In order to give here a single specimen of "the accuracy hi-
therto unknown," .and the "minutire and niceties unheard of be·
fore," we shall quote only the following different expressions ol
pain, whlch Habnemann states must be distinguished mi,.u&ely,
Digitized by Google
16·t
and which are indi,pensahle for a correct diagnosi;;.-See Org:t·
non, t 90. and Kopp. I. c. p. 22.-
" Einfach (simple), stumpf (obtuse), pressend (pressing),
drueckend (compressing), spannend (bending), klemmend (jam-
ming), kneipend (pinching), shneidend (cutting), stechend (sting-
ing), ziehend (drawing), reissend (tearing), zuckend (shrugging),
&trremend (streaming), wuehlend (crawling), drehend (turning),
bohrend (borin~), windend (twisting), nagend {gnawing), fres·
end (eating), dehnend (extending), kl'l\tzend (scratching), poohend
(knocking) : to which we might add some equally important, as
zitternd (quivering), hrennend (burning), feilend (filing), kitzlend
(tickling), etc. f:ach of these 2G expressions having a meaning
of its own, and Hahnemann requiring nlso the compound ones, we
have the following number of expresRions for pain, if we add only
lhe combiMtions by 2 and 3:-
Simple expressions 26
Combinations of two 325
------ three • • 2,600
Different expressions Total 2,951
As in the same manner all other feelings and complaints of the
patient nre minutely to be nscertained, written down, and com
pared with the image in the large gallery of all the drug-sickness·
symptoms, by a faithful homreopathist, it is eMy to comprehend
" that the advantage of short visits, and quickly writing a recipe,
"cannot be reconciled with homreopathia." (See Concise View,
p. 25).-lt would be best for the doctor to board with his patient
for a few weeks until his minute inquiries are concluded.
What language less rich than the German could render all the
expressions in Hahnemaon's works intelligible ! it mpst have been
very troublesome, even for an able translator of his Organon only,
to translate them into French, Italian, English, or any other lan·
1uage; and more so with many vulgar terms, contained in all
his works : inconveniences which will make them unfit for an
~zact translation, and partially unintelligible to foreigners, with·
out 1\ voluminous glossary. No foreign patient could therefore
make himself well understood by his German hom<Popathist, witb-
out a previous tiresome study of such a glossary ; and scarcely will
a foreign bomreopathist ever become so minutely acq!lainted with
Digitized by Google
165
the homreopathic tt>rminology, as is necessary to be exactly on..
derstood,by his patient'l, who mn~t not only be free from nervous
debility, from any disease of his head, chest, etc. but must possess
strong respiratory organs, very stout nerves, considerable talka-
tiveness, and above all, a large allopathic dose of angelic patienc:e,
fully to satisfy the minute cross-examinations of a faithful homreo-
pathist.-It must indeed be very curious to witness the cross-exa-
minations of a native of " the sanguinary Gold Coast," or of
" Egypt, the land of monsters," by such a wonderful sprig of the
arbor vitre flourishing It Coethen, who, without being well ac-
quainted with tile language, customs, etc. of tbat country, has car-
ried there " the new art ~f healing !"
The numerous and indispensable exigencies for a hornteopatbic
diagnosis and infallible cure, appear tO us not less curious, in re-
spect to the particular ease, promised by the discreet and worthy
Dr. Hering, for the cure of the most acute and dangerous di~ases •
of children. How is it possible to dispense, in these cases, at
•nee with almost all symptoms, and be nevertheless so confident
of the right diagnosis and safe cure,of the most dangerous acute
diseases1 In these cases there must be, for ti!e homreopathist,
something present, not to be met with in adults; some of the many
miracles of .bomreopathia, secfetly revealed by Hahnelnann only
to some of his beloved and more initiated disciples, by which a
new-born baby can tell all the minutire of its feelings, dreams, etc.
and all that happened during its embryo-life.-Probably we sh~l
occasionally hear something highly interesting about some deve-
loped virtues,_..... about "domestic felicity," promoted already at
this period of human life by homreopathists; and about many other
objects which have hitherto remained concealed from all stupid al-
lopathists,and naturalists. This hope will not seem extravagant
and ridiculoun to any one who reads, in Hahoemann's work on
Ohron. Die. (vol. i. p. 173) among many other very amusing nar-
ratives, quoted by the "old philosopher," in corroboration of his
"great truth," that "a new-born baby, only a few days dd, will
"constantly rub and scratch the place where his hereditary itch
" is located."
Indeed ! we, and certainly many of our retpected colleagues
in all qu~rters of the globe, would "again become students,"
(C. V. p.l6) to learn from these high-gifted men, how they can dis-
Digitized by Google
166
pense with so many symptoms for the easy cure of most dangerous
acute diseases of deaf and dumb persons ; and if "upon the full-
" ness and accuracy with which the symptoms nre notedtthe entire
"management of the cure rests ;" to hear by what miracle this
poor class is likewise exempt from the minute descripCion of all
their thoughts and feelings so imperatively required from all other
patients 1 Are all their diseases to be considered forthwith as latent
itch, or· are they, when sick, to .be left without the never-failing
homreopathic aid, and exposed to be murdered by allopathists ?-
Though now the unfortunate lunatics migft be rescued from their
''leaden fetters, the bitterest human misery" by the "great truth,"
it is however highly important to know !llso how they can enjoy
the bleseings of homreope.thia, as they are either unable minutely
to report their feelings, or cannot do this satisfactorily to their bene-
volent bomreope.thic doctor 1
In observing a regular course, we should now treat of Hahne-
mann's third and last maxim. As, however, his treatise on chro-
nic diseases is more connected with the second than with the third
maxim, we prefer to dwell here aw}lile upon this very intellectual
gem of the great rnius.-We cannot do better than to commence
with the emphatic expression made by Dr. Hering upon the same
work.on p.l8 of his Concise View•. There he says,~ while thus
" with blessings on its wings, the great discovery reached to every
"quarter ofthe earth, the master was silent, and his disciples ima-
" gined that be now reposed upon his laurels. But the old philo-
"sopher did not rest, and while his hair was growing gray on his
" bead, enriched with science, enriched with experience, his mind
"still retained its youthful vigour, and be boldly penetrated still
"deeper into the mysteries of nature. When an old man; at the
"age of 73, he suddenly surprised his astonished admirers with a
" new and great work, which far transcended all preceding disco-
" veries, and more then redoubled the power of the bom<eopatbic
"physician," etc.-How true 'the expression in Solomon's Book of
Wisdom, cb. iv. v. 9.-" But wisdom is the gray hair unto men1
" and an unspotted life is old age."
Habnemann's preface to this work begins with t.he following
words, characteristic of his pneumatic laurels and of his youthful
vigour. "If I were ignorant of the object of my existence on this
" earth-to improve myeelf and to ameliorate the eoadition of all
Digitized by Google
l
167
"around me, to the best of my exertioll3, I shouW consider myself
~: very imprudent in publishing, before my death, an art which is
"peculiar to myself,.and \\;hich, if concealed; might con~inuc to be
c: extremely profitable to me."
One would think, that if any thing could bring homreopathiets
to reason, nothing could have been better adapted than this "great
1' work, which really far transcended all preceding disc~veriell"-in
flair·brained nonsense ; and it will serve as a new proof that those
who once believe implicitly, can hardly ever be rescued from their
credulity and superstition. Indeed, yet in itself it is difficult to
conceive how "the power of the hopt<Bopathic physician," which
has been already before always and absolutely curing with the
greatest safety and quicknCS@, and which never committed any error,
could become by this great work "more than redoubled" unless
they can now raise from the dead patients killed by allopathists 1
Every impartial reader, however, who has noticed Hahnemann's
earlier productions, must have been astonished, that after all the
whimsical suggestions which he has stated in his Organon and
in his Materia Medica, so many could remain which he published
in 1828, in .this voluminous work ; as he himself states, " after a.
"painful labour qf twelve years ;"-a space of time, worthy of such
a monstrosity, which presents but few or rather no traces of human
understanding. Indeed, no science whatever, not even medicine,
so exuberantly rich in the most whimsical and absurd suggestions,
can present a work, so crowded from beginning to end, with such
absurdities.
The probable cause why Habnemann bas undertaken this
" gigantic work," we believe to be, that he was aware of the
stumbling block, which he himself has laid in theway of his second
hom<Bopathic maxim, similia similibus curantur, by its minute
dependance on so many symptoms, and that he could only remove
this great o~tacle, which in most cases would nullify the practical
application of his doctrine, in revoking his former rigorous exigen~
cies by a new dictatorial decree, which admits not only a very large .
deduction of symptoms, but which directly teaches, that in most
-diseases hom<Bpathia can dispense with them entirely. Hahne.
mann, after his Organon was published, must have seen more
clearly the inslllrnountable difficulties of his doctrine, if tbe'minute
-
distinction of symptoms in the much larger number of chronie
.fAHDplaints, should be regarded as indispe.ww.ble as it was iq
Digitized by Google
•
•
•
168
acute diseases. IL must have appemed to him impo~sible, and· a'
task f<\r exceeding one man's life, to ascertain with the least shadow
of credibility what drug, among the immense numb~ of which
he had tried only about sixty, would produce, if administered to
ltealthy persons, a disease not depending upon exalted feelings,
imagination, implicit belief or premeilitated' deception, but upon
1·eal changes obvious to the senses of every observer. He would
also hardly have .found any of his disciple!;!, however otherwise
willing to satisfy the whims of their master from implicit faith,
credulity, or respect fo'r his "extraordinary talents,".who would have
quietly condescended to be the subject of experiments, intended for
ascertaining, which one of the simple drugs might produce con·
sumption, apoplexy, hernia inguinalis, carcinoma, or any other of
those diseases, which have been generally considered as danger-
ous and fatal, for centuries not yet enlightened by homreopathia. ll
was an easy task for a devoted disciple or an infatuated adept to
state, after taking the decillionth part of a grain of the extract of
Henbane, (see Materia Medica, Vol. IV.) I feel giddy, a headache,
stiffness in my neck, shaking, tickling and humming in my ears;
I feel jealous, inclined to injure others and to kill myself, &c. ; or
he might even have appeared to stagger, to tremble when walking,
to convulse his eyes and his limbs a little, &c. The patient may
also have exultingly praised the delivery from all his propensities.
pai'ns,&c.
"Tantum cura poteet et are doloris,
" Desit 6nge1e Clllliua Podagram."-Mczrtial.
A.ll these may be the natural effects of an exalted imagination, of
courtesy towards an i'nquisitive man, who evidently wishes to hear
such extraordinary reports, or be a consequence· of such experi·
ments as we have tried to explain. But the author of homreopathia,
if he has ever been so foolish as to believe that all chronic diseases
could be produced in healthy persons by drugs, could not expect
his most obliging disciple to come forth in the vigour of health, and
to present, after a few experiments with the virtue developed' from
a decillionth part of a grain ofcommon table salt, cliarcoal; &c., or
by an artificial infection with itch, all the symptoms of a pulmo-
nary consumption, of a bad .carcinoma, of an inguinal rupture, of
a nasty disfiguring itch, &c., or even to commit murder, suicide,
&c.; all of which are the symptoms of upwards of 400 chronic
diseases, aud all' of which a,rise l:limply from· itch-sickness, as is to
Digitized by Google
169
be seen in Samuel Hahnemann's work on Chronic DiseasC$: Vol.
I., from page 93 to 136. Should such experiments even partially
succeed in produciug one of the many horrible diseases, but after-
wards fail in not reestablishing the former healthy state, Hahne·
mann not only ran the risk of putting at once his doctrine and
reputation at stake, but had also to fear the laws of the country,
which willingly permitted him to continue his fanciful doctrine and
his negatively innocent practice, but which would have infiicted
upon him an allopathic dose of the punishment, prescribed by law
for all experiments by which human health and life are injured.
These difficulties must have increl\sed when he considered the mul
tifarious species and variet~cs of many chronic diseases, already
minutely distingui;;hed from each other, especially by the great
progress and discoveries of pathological anatomy ; had he treated
·of these diseases singly, he might possibly have coincided in some
topics with those whom he stigmatized as idiots and murderer!'!.
Hahnemann for these reasons was forced to dispose by11;/wlesale
of all the chronic diseases, physical as well as mental, and to
abandon for them his fundamental maxim, similia similibus cu-
rantur, substituting for it a new theory, which he emphatically
calls "the g'reat truth." The substance of this is, that itclt is the
rmly cause of seven-eighths of all cltronic di3efLSes, leaving only
one-eighth for syphilis and for a disease termed by him sykosis or
wart-sickness, the former however having the larger share."
Habnemann being also aware that, in most cases, it would be
impossible to trace, even distantly, the origin of a chronic disease
to an infection by itch, advif¥ls his followers, in many parts of his
work on chronic diseases, and also in the last edition of his Or.
ganon, nevertheless always confidently to suppose in such C8Se2
the existence of a latent itch, namely, of "'uch a one which is
imperceptible by any ofour senses, and which of course present/~
no symptom at all. This is stated by the same man: who, a few
pages before, in the same work, applies the term " murderers» to .
" Ignorant homreopathists consider6ykosis likewise as one of the p:reat discoveries
made by Hahnemann, though it was known under the same term to Galen and other
older Greek authors, according to Celsus, who, in his work de MedicinJ~, I. vi. cap. 3,
explicilly says, " est enim ulcus quod, a fici similitudine ll'uXWO"I' a Gr..,cis nomina-
" tur, quia caro in eo excrescit." It is pardonable to this ol.i author, that he con·
aidered it as a specific disease and as independent of syphilis, which of course was
unknowr. to him ; although sykosis may sometimes depend on other dyscrasim, espe.
cially on the tubercular ;. it frequently exists merely as a slight local ~ection, like
other parasitical productions of an mcreased or changed local vegetative pr(ICeas•
without any constitutional cause, or any influence upon health.
. 22
Dig1t1zed by Coogle
'
170
aU his professional predecessors and contemporaries, who are 8Q
crazy as to say, •: remove the cause of the disease ifyou intena ra-
•
:
• dically to remove its effects, or the disease itself;" this was done
by the same m.an who says in the same work, (Organon, p. 15),
when speaking of the different specific morbid mattera adopted by
ilie old schools, as the scropbulous,-herpetic,-gout-matter, &c. :
" Who, of all the nosologists, has ever seen with his corporeal
"eyes such a morbid matter, of which he can speak with so great
'' a confidence as to prescribe a medical treatment for it?" thiil
was done by the sanr.e man, who still makes it a sacred duty for
his disciples and followers exactly to observe his advice, expressed
in his "Reine Arzney mittellehre" or "Materia Medica," second
edit. 1825, Vol. III. on page 6, in the following manner: " Take
" one case after another, put down all its discoverable symptoms,
4' accordi,ng to the direction of the Organon, with such minute-
" ness, thal the founder of hom<20pathia himself could not object
" in the least to its perfect exactitude ; in every individual case
" apply the proper homceopathic medicine, pure and unmixed,
" in as small a dose as the doctrine prescribes: but have also aU
~~other remedial influences removed from the patient, as is ex-
" pressly required ; and if this mode will not cure the disease
1• easily, quickly, and durably, then blame this doctrine ; I repeat,
" then expose to public contempt this doctrine, which so seriously
~~ threatens to destroy the old darkness, by placing before the
"public, legally confirmed, the particulars of a cure, attempted
'' strictly in compliance with the homreopu.thic doctrine."
Hahnema~n seems so enraptured with his itch, that since he
published his" great truth," he thinks it not worth while to speak
much about the two other chronic diseases, syphilis and sykosis;
and even in ~ 168 of his Organon, (4th edit.) he appears to
have again abandoned the newly adopted copartnership ofsykosis;
nay ! it would not be very difficult to prove, from some other pas·
sages in his work, that he is disposed to regard all acute dis-
easea as likewise arising simply from itch, and that he considers,
therefore, the latter a.s the innate physical sin of the human race,
existing from Adam down to the present age ; so that the terms
disease and itch are almost considered by him as synonymous.
The adoption of the itch as the cause of many diseases, is a
very antiquated opinion, though it has never been carried so far
as ~t is now by l{ahnemann. This has prqbably i.n.du~d Hahne-
Digitized by Google
17t
mann to give to the general infection by itch the preference ovet
nny other similar cause of which he was in need.
We may well imagine that a voluminous work, containing the
results of new experimen~s in natural philosophy, chemistry, or in
any other branch of natural history, might many years be withheld
before its author, anxiou& to corroborate the validity of his disco-
very, resolves to publish his researches. But Hahnemann's pain.;.
ful labour during twelve years, as stated by himself, can only be
explained· by his consulting ancient authors, in order to find what
general cause of all chronic diseases has been preeminently adopt-
ed by medical authors. In this way he has found that scabies sup-
pressa was the cause chiefly mentioned among all the presumed
material causes of many, and particularly of chronic diseases.-
That he has only secretly brooded over this great truth, without
instituting experimeo_
ts, becomes more evident by the statement of
Dr. Hering, that " be was silent," and that his '1 discipies imagined
"that he now reposed upon his laurels." He could not have insti-
tuted all these experiments secretly on himself, nor does h~
mention that he did. so. He must therefore, besides the lite1·ary
investigations mentioned, have perhaps collected only some
single experiments with drugs on healthy persons, for which he
could not find a proper place in his homreopathic doctrine ; and
by all means this statement, made by himself and his disciples,
proves likewise clearly, that he indulged her~> again in his old
propensity to secrecy, otherwise we should think that he would
have been anxious to communicate the " great truth'' as soon as
possible, at least to some of his disciples; and to see it confirmed
also by their practice.
The opinion of infection by itch, as the principal c'ause of most
1:hronic diseases, was very popular during many ages down to the
last century, especially in Germany. lrt cities like Fuerth, in Ba-
varia, where we passed om· youth, itch being endemic, or having
been so at least for many years before we left it, it is not strange
that such an opinion was very common, not only among prllk
fessional men, but also among the public, as we observed in the
practice of our deceased father, who was one of the most distin.:.
guished physicians il) that place.•
• Among those modem authors who believe itch to be the cause of many disease!'",
may be named also Professor Autenrieth of the TJniversity of Tuebingen, a~ hl! sug-
Digitized by G ogIe
172
Many ofthese apprehensions were correct, since numerous cbro-
hic and acute diseases originated in itch; though not in tbis dis-
ease itself, so much as in the obnoxious pl'f'judices which formerly
attended its long-protracted treatment. Hahnemano asserts a
gested in a treatiee, " de morbis e acabie oriundis, magistratuum attentione uon
"indignis, Tubinp, 1807," of which Hahnemann could not have bet>n ignorant,
though to out knowledge he has uot been just eno~:gh to give him credit for it. Tbia
is also thfl eaee, we believe, with his mutm, similia similibua cunmtur, to which not
only Haller but also Professor Blumt'obach at Grettingen has alluded long before
Hahoelllann. Thi• grea\ nl\turaliat, as we slightly remember, bas in one of bis first
worka (lntroductio in historiam medicinm literariam) about fifty years ago, very dis-
tinctly alluded to this maxim, and much more so than the celebrated Albertus Haller
did, though as may be expected from this diatinguished profeeaor, likewi.e in the
sense of the expression we suggested above.-lt appears also a little strange that
Hahnemann. who by his suggPstion of the cause of Asiatic Choler!\ seems to be so
remarkably fond of insects, did not notice Lancisi'a theory, which has bt'en adopted
by ml\ny distinguished naturalists, and even by Linne and Morgagni, viz. tbat tbe
itch depends alway• upon a peculiar insect, Ac11rus or Cheyletus scabit>i, frequP.ndy
portrayed, as for instance in the treatise of Wichmann, '• on the itch." (.Etiologte
der Kmtze.) This would have rendered the excessive propap:ation of itch more
explicable, and the "great truth" at all events more li~ely. He would not have
sacrifice<! any originality by adopting the Acarus acabiei, as he has already se-
cured his place in the hiatory of medicine. His opinion that Cholera is caused
by small insects is likewise not original, and he must have known that dysentery,
so similar to Asiatic Cholera, was long before his time ascribed to inSt"Cts by Friedr.
Hoffmann, Linne, Latreille, and others. His originality consists in the follow·
ing : he has written different treati~es about Asiatic Cholera without eoer luJmilg
seen one patient snft'ering by Asiatic Cholera ; he has prophesied lhat 110 patient will
die after bis camphor-trt;atment, though not one was manifestly saved by it ; and that
Recording to him, also another gre11t remedy for thi~ scourge, oleum cajepute, (which
proved not less ineffectual than camphor, and in a few cases wu useful only like any
other e•sential oil,) mu•t alway8 contain CDppcr; thi• is likewiae false, since the most
exact chemical analyses are unable to detect it. ~·ert' he leas ignorant of tbe ele-
ments of the "OYerrefioed'' chemistry, he would not have resorted to this false
<>pinion of copper, but would have made use of the beneficial effect of oil of cajeput
as a particular argument in favor of his opinion, so emphatically expressed about tbe
camphor treatment, since this essential oil, like most others, much resembles camphor,
and contains a considerable quantity of it. But according to his uaual mode of
reasoning, concluding from the similarity between the green colour of some solutions
of copper and of the sotme In the oil of cajeput, he determined that h~oceforth copper
must be the homreopathic poison or allopathic remedy tor bis animalcula choleric&,
which neither he nor any mortal being has ever seen, which he never subjected to
his experiments similar to those on healthy persons. and which therefore, of course,
he could not know how to make drug-sick or to kill. The uselessness of copper in
Asiatic Cholera, in spite of 1111 the medical bulls, propht>cies and commands which
emanated from the high pontifical see at Crethen, against tbese barbarous eutem
intruders, may however not be the fault of the great philoaopher, since these little
Infusoria appear to po•!'ess r~ther a tough.constitution, and not to be affected by itcbi
they seem at least as msenstble to the vtrtoes developed by homreopathists as they
are to a severe Russian winter, to a scorching West Indian summer, and to all tbe
tremendous remedies ofthe medical profession i this free country however excepted,
where these cruel little autocrats appear to have found their conquerors. An Ameri·
can homreopatbist has already published that he has cured all his cholefll p11tients by
Hahnemaf!D's camphor·treatment, though as we have seen above, his homreopsthic
b~ethr~n m Europe were not so haPI'Y·. Another who left a populQUs city and
h18 P.attents at the approach of the cholera 10 1832, told us that after safely returning
late m S~~tember, he cured ~ore than 600 patients, although it is notorious, that not
on~ phJ:Slctan .of the. same ctty, w~o att~nd~d the largest. hospital during lhe whole
eptdemtc saw m all stx hundred pattents: 1t 1s also known that the epidemic abated
~uddenly. and that towards th? end of September only a few sporadic cues of it ex·
lsted.-So much for the ~eracunu statement~ of some homreopathists!
Digitized by Google
173
gross falsehood, in saying that the bad consequences of itch prln•
cipally arose from considering it as not constitutional, and from
treating it with external remedies only. The contrary is the case,
for until the last thirty years, the profession has erroneously con-
sidered itch and similar chronic exanthematic diseases as always
merely constitutional, and has believed a long treatment by internal
antidyscrasic remedies alone as useful; it really became constitu~
tional by disturbances of the repl:oductive system thus artificially
produced, and when at last external remedies were resorted to,
many of which were injurious to health, the worst consequences
arose therefrom, which in our times are never to be feared from a
judicious local treatment.
Hahnemann, regardless of the great difference between miasma
and contagion:* and comprising both under the former term, con-
siders the itch-miasma as the most infectious of all diseases.-
Tracing, by a shining display of Hebrew, Greek, &c., its origin
back·even to the records of sacred history, he leaves others to con-
jecture how this scourge, by which the human race has been
inflicted with so many, so multifarious and so dangerous diseases,
.first commenced many thousand years ngo, (see Chr. Dis., Vol. I.
page 15 and 199.)
This doctrine of Samuel Hahnemann, ifproperly acknowledged,
cannot fail to cause an immense revolution in all the diversified
relations of human life. We are justified in anticipating this,
when we observe that Hahnemann ascribes not only all physical
chronic diseases, but also all morbid alienations of the human
mind solely to itch, (see Chr: Dis., Vol. I., from page 28 to page
134.) This will be more clearly understood if we merely refer to
the latter, and consider that most, if not all mental diseases origi-
+ Hahnemann nullifying, wheneTer it suits him, all facts aeceriained by repeated
observations ofdistinguished naturalists and almost all medical practitioners, says on
Vol. II. pages 6 and 7, of his Materia Medica, "N'o man can be infected by the virus
" secreted from his own syphilitic ulcer or gonorrhrea, any more than a viper can kill
"or only hurt itself by its own poison in a dangerous manner." He is therefore ijPlO·
rant or wilfully denies that the eyes ofpersons, infected by their own gonorrhoic v1rue,
were in thousands of instances severely attacked by the most dangerous, and fre-
qnently incurable and destructive ophthalmia, and also that, as has been repeatedly
observed by naturalists, the scorpion and the rattle-snake if enraged, without being
eapable ofhurting their aggressor, kill themselves by their own sting or bite.-We
ea\1 the attention of the: reader to this single instance of the many in the homreo•
pathic doctrine, whieh strikinl!'ly prove the immense and irreparable injury which must
arise from an implicit belief m the ravings of its author ; since every well educated
physician should know, that eyes inflamed by the gonorrhoic vicus will to all proba-
bility be forever lost within Jess than twenty-four hours, if proper aid is not immedi-
ately administered.
Digitized by GoogIe
I
~
174
nate in passion, and that the higher degrees of all passions are
justly regarded by the philosophers of all ages as particular kinds
of madness. If therefore all the different kinds and varieties of the
latter solely depend u:on itch, according to the "great truth" dis-
covered by Hahnemann, it follows, a fortiori, that henceforth,
none of the passions in men, the most noble as well as the most
depraved, can originate from any thing else than from itih.
Ardent love, or
"--sacred lire that bum'et mightily
"In liviog breast ykindled first above,"
being only a symptom of late~u itch, the individual affected by it
without having his love returned, must henceforth submit to a
bomc:eopathic antipsoric treatment. The itchy pair, prevented from
a more pleasant radical cure by their obstinate parents, will now
undoubtedly be radically cured by antipsorics, in a manner fully
satisfactory also to their too scrupulous parents, who otherwise would
have perhaps repented, when too late, of their harsh behaviour, not
remembering those joyful times when they also were affected in a
similar manner by the itch.
The husband, who before the great truth was revealed to the
\Vorld, was made unhappy by the jealousy ofhis" green-eyed" wife,
will no longer deplore his disastrous fate ; since the hommopathists
'ean now cure by their developed virtues the true cause of this
odious passion, the itch, and thus tie again the nuptial knots
loosened by jealousy, with the rosy garlands of renewed confidence
and constant love.
The gloomy verses of the great moralising poet, Young.
".0 Britain, infamous for suicide, 1
" An island in thy manners ! far disjoined
•• From the whole world ef rationals besides,
" In ambient waves plunge thy polluted head,
"Wash the dire stain, nor shock the continent."-
will be expunged, as soon as these high-minded islanders accept
" a treasure like this new art;" since latent itch is the only cause
of'suicide. (See Chr. Dis. Vol. I. p. 135.) But we would advise
them not" to plunge in ambient waves," nor to" wash the dire
" stain," but to use antipsorics, because, according to Hahnemann,
the latent itch becomes severer and rebellious by all external re-
medies, and of course therefore also by washing.
The decillionth developed virtue of table-salt, charcoal or a si-
Digitized by Google
1'75
milar antipsoric will disarm and transmute into the most amiable.
philanthropist,
" The eteret enemy, whoee eleepless eye
" Stands sentinel-aecuser~judge-and spy,
" The foe-the fool-the jealoue-and the nin,
" The envious who but breathe in other•• pain."-Byron.
All the deformities of children before birth, and their different
anomalous positions, arise only from itch, (see I. c. p. 233), and
the accoucheum will no longer be obliged to trouble the suffering
women and themselves with the forceps and other instruments.
hitherto recommended by the stupid and murderous allopathists.
Should they meet with cases of difficult labor, they may rather
apply a virtue developed from an antipsoric, and call again in some
days or weeks, in order to observe its " after-operation," and to
ascertain if the delivery has become easy or requires another an-
tipsoric virtue for some weeks or months longer, until at last the.
" salutary after-operation" of the homreopathic dose has fulfillec\
the parental hopes and joys.
Inguinal ruptures will henceforth happen very $Cldom, if prope~;
care is taken to prevent them by antipsorics, since, (loc. cit. p. 108),
we are taught that, a few cases ofsudden violence excepted, the itch
is always their principal and only cause.-As all the great geni-
uses are not always disposed minutely to express their·meaning~
but speak often aphoristically, so also our Samuel in regard to this
topic ; he leaves all mankind in darkness why hernia ingui'Q-alis
only will be certainly prevented and cured without trusses and
other remedies by an antipsoric treatment, and why not likewise
hernia crurnlis, umbilicalis and all similar ruptures 1 We remain
also ignorant whether the antipsoric will cure all kinds of bubo-
novele, enterocele, epiplocele, entero-epiplocele, &c., or only· one.
kind.
The criminal laws will undergo, by our great reformer, much
greater changes than ever, not excepting even those made by
Charles V., in his penal code; and then every rogue will be
'mooing enough to apologize, and justly claim indulgence fo{ his
offence, by a "small wart or pimple,11 located somewhere; per-
haps, also, the crime committed will clearly prove, that he is far
beyond all moral responsibility from his moral incapacity to resist
the bad influence of the latent itch, located in his heart, his hands,
Qr somewhere el~, and, he will palpably sbQw that he deserv~~
Digitized by Google
176
therefore, to be subjected to a regular homreopathic antipsoric treat-
ment., rather than to be punished with solitary confinement or
perhaps even death.
Hahnemann, at any rate, advocates the abolishment of punish-
ment by death, and renders it very expedient to subject, in future,
all the inmates of state prisons, if the people should not soon dis-
pense with such cruel allopathic institutions, to an o.ntipsoric
treatment, in large itch-hospitals.
All mankind will be greatly benefitted by Hahnemann's great
truth, as it will not merely prevent the self-destruction ofthe human
race by itch, which, being the only cause of all mental maladies, as
murder, suicide, &c., might easily affect people epidemically, and
lead them to kill one another, or to commit suicide en masse, but
will also deliver mankind from almost the only infectious co.use
of all chronic diseases. War, the destroyer of human life, will
cease to exist, since it unquestionably arises from many heinous
passions, and, of course, therefore, from itch ; and consequently
the great problem of all philanthropists and philosophers, in regard
to eternal peact, will be solved by Hahnemann's great discovery;
perhaps by the virtue developed from one grain of table-salt.
The reader can easily picture for himself the great changes in
all trades, and in all other occupations of human society, after this
immense discovery, shall be justly appreciated by every one. Poor
allopathic physicians, apothecaries, wholesale druggists1 and un-
dertakers, are the only sufferers severely visited, and should
hasten to turn their attention to some other profitable business,
which might indemnify them for the great injury inflicted on
them by this immense progress of the human intellect, as pro-
claimed by " one ofthe greatest benefactors of mankind"-Samuel
Hahnemann.*
* It is indeed astonishing that the great philologists, with all their endeavours to
prove that every language is baaed upon the philosophical conceptions of its uatioo,
and is especially expressive in its idioms, sentences, proverbs, &c., did not discover
before Hahnemann the intimate connexion of itch and moral faults, because the few
languages which we are able to consult, in regard to this topic, sigaify this connexion
very distinctly; the Greek XVI~W and Xl1f"«XVI~W signifies itch, also to make, or to bl
angry, to make jealuus, XVI~EO'bru f"IVO!;, to be inflamed by kme, &c. ; The Latin sca-
bies, is a word very expressive for propensities and passiul&, of some of which Hah.
nemann has constantly felt the i~resistible impulse (concupiscentia.) In this manne(
Horace says, Ep. I. 12, 14, to his friend.
. ".Cum tu inter scabiem tantam et contagia lucri
• " Nil parvum sapias et adhuc sublima cures 1"
In a similar manner, Lucilius ap. Non. 2. n. 701, says :
" Corruptus soabie et porrigine plenus."
Digitized by GoogIe
177
Before we lca\'e this topic to discuss the third and last maxiut
of homreopathia, we think it advisable to quote some of Hahne-
mann's remarkable explanations of his itch-docuine, though, to
show his sentiments, judgment, and style, we have already ex·
tracted the first sentence of the preface to his treatise on chronic
diseases. We omit, purposely·, any comment' upon the mean and
disgraceful sentiments and feelings, the total disregard of any
thing like consistency, nod the vulgar style contained in the fol·
lowing few quotation,., selected from the ·many with which this
work of Hahnemann likewise abounds, leaving their examination
to the impartial judgment of the critic. ·
" No• hac a scabie tenernus ungues."-Martial.
To prove more minutely the correctness of his itch-doctrinet
Hahnemann says, in Vol I. p. p. 89,90 and !H, of.this large work,
mentioned:-" But again, if a favoraule situation should arrest
" the progress of the disease, after it had broken out, real health
" cannot. be reestablished by any method hitherto known, iwd the
" common allopathic treatment with active and improper drugs,
" baths, mercury, prussic acid, starvation, nnd other fashionable
" remedies, only accelerates approaching death, the termination o(
" all sufferings incurable ~y physicians. Thus a merchant, strong
" and apparently healthy, some symptoms of latent itch excepted;
" which are perceptible only to a judge, will, by several unfortunate
" business transactions, ue gradually reduced in his wealth, until
and Cicero, Leg. I. 17, " quia hac scabie carent." The verb prurirc signifies to itchi
and also to dc6er1Jc puni.thment for sotne• wrong or otftlnce committed ; for instance;
" num malae an dentes tibi pruriunt." Se~ Plauti Poenolus V. £. 36. In the Eng•
!ish the substantive itch, and the verb to Jlrli, <·orrespond togt•ther in regard to the
propensity of doing some vmmg; thu• in Shaksp. \\.ives of \\'indsor "If I see a sword
"out, my fingers itch to mAke one," or my fingers itch to be ht him, which si~:nifie11
at all events, soTM t111'0ng iptend•d ; the French expression, " Ia peau, le dos lui tie-
mange," means, he deserves pllllishment; the same is the meaning with the Italian
"pizzica~e, a1Jer prurito. mi pi.zicano le mani, e ti I~ re~f·" and with the German, "der
"Buckeljucktlhn; dte Haende oder finger JUCken thn, &e. ; the same, a$ one feels an.
irresistible propensity to steal, &c. The word "shaMy," scltacbig,common to the Engli~b
and German langual!es, signifies itchy, and likewise the most contemr•tible propen-
aity, "a11aricious." Whal can confirm the cor~ect11ess of the "great truth," more than to
6nd in the languages of 'he most civilized nation• such synonymous expres•ions, which
they were tutlessly, and almost inconsciously forced to adopt, on accout•t of the
aimiliarity of two things !-Is Dr. Hering not fully in the right when he says on '
page 18 of his C. V. that this " new and groat work far transcended all prPcedin~
"diecoveries, and more than redoubled the power of the homceopathic physician!" If
we ever have repented of not possessing greater philological acquirements, it is at this
'IMIIIent, in order to do justice to the great genius, by better and eimilar quotationa
from other languages. Hahnemann must have been unMnscious of these important
arguments for his great truth, otherwise he would have mentioned th~>m in his works.
May he grar.iously accept ~bia, our email offering, by which he. as a more aecompliahed
ec:holar, will be led ~till more to improve his elevated idea-of the itch,
23
•
Digitized by Google
178
" be is almos~ bankrupt, and a~ the same time he will be affected
" with different illnesses, and be eventually auacked by a serious
" disease..- But the death of a rich relative, or the gain of a high
"prize in the lottery, abundantly restores his losses; he becomes
" a weal~hy man, and nevertheless his disease continues every year,
" in spite of all medical prescrip~ions and of all his visits to the
" most famous mineral springs.
" Since the cause must always be proportionate and equal to its
" effects, the reason to its consequences, as is ever the case ·in na-
" ture, no body can understand, why, in this case, after the re·
" moval of the external attacks upon the health of the person, tlte
" following evils should not only continue, but grow also worse
" from year to year, unless there existed another and a higher
"cause-acting in such a manner, that these loathsome events,
" both having disappeared and bei~g ~herefore unable to consti-
" tute a cause sufficient for the following chronic disease, can only
" be considered as the occasional cause for the developement of a
" more imp<5rtant hostile power, which had already existed before
" internally, but in a slumbering state.'1
In further corroboration of his acute and deep logical conclusions,
he continues on the same pages :-" A modest girl, believed to be
" perfectly healthy, e;ymptoms of htternal itch excepted, is forced
u into a marriage, which makes her soul unhappy ; her bodily
" health begins to decay, without any signs of syphilitic infection.
" Her calamitous complaints can be ameliorated by no medicine,
" and they assume a still mort serious character. In the midst
'·' of this state, after a year of suffering, the cause of her misfor-
" tunes, the husband, detested by ·}~r, suddenly dies, and she re·
" vives, convinced that she is now relieved from the very cause of
" all her mental and physical suffering:;, and entertains the hope
" of a speedy recovery ; all her friends share her anticipations, as
" the cause which has excited her disease lays now tn the grave.
" She indeed improves rapidly; but, contrary to all expectations,
" she remains sickly, the strength of her youth notwithstanding;
" her sufferings cease but rarely, and are renewed from time to
" time, without any apparent cause, and seem even to become
" more severe every year, (during the inclement season)," &c.
Hahnemann repeat!! again more distinctly :-" Indeed if these un-
" happy events had been the causes, the efficient causes of the
~~symptoms of the disease, wou~d it not follow, that their effect,
•
Digitized by Google
179
«the disease, should have also ceased entirely after the eauses was
" removed 1 But the complaints do not cease, they are renewed,
" and even increased and it becomes manifest, that these unhappy
"events could not have been a sufficient cause for che complaints
"now existing; it is obvious that they have served only as an
" impulse to the developement of a sickness, which hitherto bas
" slumbered within the body. The diagnosis of this ·old and fre-
" quently internal enemy, and the knowledge bow to defeat it,
"render it evident, that generally an internal itch (psora) has
"caused all these sufferings, which cannot be appeased, even by
" the power of the strongest constitution, but can be overcome only
" by the healing art."
So much for Dr. Hering's and his brether homreopathists' "old
''philosopher enriched with experieoee," and the "treasury of new
"observations and experience scarcely to be overlooked," (see page
18 of the Concise View.)
Those who are able and willing to read in the original, the
reasons for " the great truth" in extenso, will find no page of
the four big volumes to contain any more sense than our quota-
tions, which we have selected only as the easiest to translate; they
generally display nonsense not less disgraceful.
We now come to the third anJ last maxim of homreopathia,
which says, that by certain mechanical processes from all natural
substances, and especially from all simple drugs, specific powers
or virtues can be developed, which act always absolutely and un-
conditionally, so as to produce in healthy persons definite diseases,
the symptoms of which, when similar to those in natural diseases,
will cure the latter by removing its symptoms; and that the powers
or virtues thus developed increase ad infinitum, in the direct ratio
of the mechanical processes and in the indirect ratio of t.he quantity
of the drug, so that their doses can never be chosen too small.
This m~im, if divested from its principal singular conceptions,
would have produced much benefit to the profession, and especially
to its practice, if Hahnemann could have elevated his mind above
his cherished charlatanism, or above his propensity to the grossest
absurdities.
Thousamls ofinstances in chemistry prove beyond all doubt that
very small •ttmntities of a substance may materially change a dis-
proportionate large quantity of another, if both or one of them are
in a liquid state ;-eorporn non agunt nisi tluida.-The manner in
Digitized by Google
180
which such phenomena occm, ju>~tifies the opinion, that whenever
an affinity or some acti\'e relation between two or more substances
exists, this action will begin immedi(ltely after the two substances,
however di!:lproportionate in quantity, come in contact or within
their mutual sphere of action, though these changes appear to
us to begin only when coming within the limits of our sen~.
We should perceive these changes much earlier and in a much
higher degree of dilution, if our senses were less limited and if the
minute changes in colour could be made more perceptible by a
chromoscope, as those in size are by a microscope. If for instance,
in a solution of a salt of Platina. a visibly changed colour is produced
by a reagent weighing only the millionth part of the former, we
may conjecture that this change has taken place long before it was
visible, and in the immediate sphere of the mutual action of both
substances. The same will be the case with the slightest vapour of
Iodine upon a disproportionately large quantity of starch, or with
the smallest quantity of arsenic, capable of making brittle a pro-
portionately large quantity of gold, the most ductile metaL Daily
experience, especially in the practice of medicine, proves still more
clearly, that the smallest particles contained even in the vapour
or gas of substances, produce in the healthy as well as in the dis-
eased state, in men as well as in animnls, very remarkable pheno-
mena and even sudden death, although their weight and bulk
cannot be distantly compared with the weight and bulk of the
individual upon whom they operate ; their effect can be referred
only to the dynamical processes in organized living bodies, by
which the influence of the smallest particle of the substances upon
any point of the living body, capable of becoming excited by and of
reacting upon it, suddenlyspreads over the whole body. Thus ifthe
largest animal sinks lifeless to the ground by the least approach of
the vapour of prussic acid to its nose, or if persons become instan-
taneously giddy, asthmatic, &c., by merely smelling .C Veratrine
for a moment, these effects cannot result from the weight and bulk
of the substances mentioned, but are only the consequences of the'
deleterious dynamo-chemical proct;sses excited and propagated by
them. Future advances in anatomy, physiology, and particularly
in chemistry, in their paths now so brilliantly paved, will probably
demonstrate, that the electro-chemical processes and the nervous
. system as the principal conductor in the animal economy, take, if
not the only, certainly the principal part in these phenomena.
Digitized by Google
181
All these experiments, however, do not vary f~om the law of
nature, that wherever different matters act upon one another chemi-
cally or otherwise, by immediate contact (if this can be admitted,) or
at a certnin distance, they always actin thedirect, butneverin the in-
verse ratiooftheirbulk and weight,or in sucha mannerthata smaller
quantity would produce under similar circumstances a greater effect
than a largerone. We rnay therefore also expect with thegreatestpro-
priety, that under identical circumstances, we shall see also identical
phenomena, and where this appears different to us, we may justly
presume that the circumstances were not identical, and that some
other influences beyond the control of our perception have co-
operated, but we can by no means account for it by the inverse
ratio between cause and its effect.
Contrary to this general law of nature, Hahnemann's concep-
tions. about his developement of virtues from drugs, admit no other
explanation than that the powers of the drugs are really not only
increased by his singular manipulations, but that they are deve-
loped by them in the inverse ratio of their weight and bulk.
Though this will become still more evident in the progress of
this discussion, we must direct the particular attention of the
reader to this topic, not only because it forms one of our principal
objections to the homreopathic doses, and therefore particularly
to the practical application of this doctrine, l>ut also because the
homreopathists will be anxious to prove, that we have committed
a palpable and gross error, or have wilfu1ly distorted by sophisms
Hahnemann's meanings and intentions.
Hahnemann and his adherents assert, that in applying doses of
drugs immensely small and not distantly comparable to those hi-
therto thought of by any man, it is not the absolute smallness of
the dose itself which accounts for t~eir miraculous effect, but tkc
virtue which becomes developed by the hoRlreopathic triturations
and shakings, and that this virtue increases in a direct ratio with
the continuation of these manipulations. Now we ask : does this
explanation mean'anything, except that the power of the drug be-
comes increased at every higher developement, and that, as a frac-
tion of one percent. of the different triturations or dilutions of one
grain or drop always remains, that also the developed power is
absolutely increased in the inverse ratio of its weight? To prove
this more clearly, let us take two substances S and s, the for-
Digitized by Google
182
mer of which, or S, contains a latent power P (suppese for instance
the power or rather the capacity to become ignited,) while the lat-
ter, s, is inert and serves only as a vehicle, a menstruum, in short,
as a mechanical mean for developing, by triturating or shaking,
the power contained in S. Now take a portion of S equal to
W and niuety-niAe times as much of s, and rub them minutely, or
dissolve both and shake them together. After this first trituration,
take again one part of this mixture or solution called l\1, equal to
the weight of W, and pulverize or dissolve it again with another
ninety-nine parts ofs, to obtain a new mixture called m, and so con-
tinue and repeat these processes twelve times in the same manner,
every one of which must be distinguished by the different letters M,
m, p., &c., when the latent or slumbering P contained in S will be
awakened or developed. Bnt in order to use P disenthralled from
S, so as to obtain a certain power, (that ofigoiting) contained in it
and not yet enough developed or disenthralled from S, in M, m, ,.,
&c., you are obliged to continue the same process six times more,
in the same manner as you have done twelve times. Is it not
clear that the power P is not only developed from S, but that this
is done in the inverse ratio between W and P, or between the
weight and power of S ; since from the billionth part ofone grain
a power is developed which was not observable in the one-hun-
dredth, one-ten-thousandth, &c. part ofthe diminished weight, and
much less in the original weight, or in the first W of S. That in
orderto obtain the proper first developement ofP, it has been neces-
sary to repeat the same process with one fractional part of the M,
m, p., &c, and ninety-nine times as much ofthe menstruum s, proves
already the correctness ofour assertion, and a fortiori this is correct,
when from the first developements until the acquisition of the de-
sired end, many more additional processes, instituted exactly in
the same manner, were indispensably required. The subterfuge of
"greater mildness," the terms "virtue" "potenz," or similar vague
expressions used by Ii'ahnemann and his disciples, cannotimpair the
clear conception of a power indefinitely increased in the manner
just stated. If it was Hahnemann's intention to give a weaker
dose after the developement of the drug-virtue has once begun, for
instance, the thousandth part ofone grain, it would have been suffi-
cient to divide accordingly one grain of the last mixture, possessed
of the desired developed virtue. Whatother reason can be assigned
Digitized by Google
183
for repeating the process so often, except that the virtue in M, m, p.,
&c. was rwt sufficiently developed, or, to speak plainly, that the
power was not strung enough ? Must not this ridiculous nonsense
of the homreopathists, already so striking, be considered still more
so, if they were to assert, that the object of their repeated dilutions,
shakings and triturations, is to develope always less of P, and thus
gradua.lly to approach the infinite minru or nothing 6J
The infinite divisibility of all matter does not involve Haline-
mann's conception, that the limits of all matter must be no matter
at all, or, according to the dynamistical theory, that all matter
must be·considered only as the product oftwo powers ;-the gene-
ral attractive and repulsive powers of nature, similar, but opposed
in their detennined direction, and therefore restr)cting one ano-
ther, so as to produce matter by this mutual restriction only. This
opinion, so much advocated by Hahnemann, and superficiaJly al-
luded to in some passages of his works, though contradicting his
whole doctrine, will never be proved satisfactorily, since in physi•
cal nature we never find matter without power, or power without
matter, and the adoption of a superphysical power, though inti-
mately connected with our higher existence and destination, with
our happiness on earth and our hopes of the future, belongs to
another sphere. ·'
If therefore the author of the Concise View states, in the sense
of his master, (seep. 20), that drugs not only become divested of
all qualities belonging to matter by homreopatbical dilutions and
triturations, but are transformed into mere virtues, which, accord-
ing to our argument, must always act inversely to the original
weight of the drug: then these developed drug-virtues would, by
this property alone, appear as novelties, since we know of no
·other power in physical nature depending upon, or at least con-
nected with matter, as all are, which act in this manner: and
even the action of all matters, erroneously considered as imponde-
rabilia, such as light, caloric, and electricity, depend in a direct
ratio upon their measurable quantities.
Wherever we can observe the action of one substance upon
another, we will always find them acting in a definite peculiar
manner, which is alike in all their quantities, and which differs
only accor~ing to the direct ratio of the latter. This absolutely
direct ratio, it is true, becomes essentiall1 changed by the reac..
Digitized by GoogIe
184
tion of the vital powers, and cannot be considered as always de-
pending solely on the changes in the weight of the substances : it
forms, however, an essential part of the total action originally re-
sultingfrom both, viz. fromthe definite weight andthevital reaction.
Hahnemann asserts, on ~ 282 of his Organon, that the arith-
metical proportion is not applicable to the effect ofdrugs, since
eight drops ofany medicine cannot be considered, in regard to its
effect on the living body, as four times two, but only perhaps as
twice two.. But he palpablycontradicts this assertion, by his re-
peated direction always to administer the thirtieth developed vir-
tue of his drug: and besides, he is only partly correct, in con-
founding the absolute and relative differences of the dose of a
drug ; for when it is first applied to two persons ofthe same age,
sex, constitution, etc. in short, under the same circumstances, the
absolute dose must unquestionably be correct, and eight drops
will always exert an effect as strong again as four. But under
different circumstances, among which we may particularly advert
to the repeated application of the same drug during the same dis-
ease, or by long habit, eight drops of it may not longer be equal
to twice four, but may perhaps decrease in their operation to only
= 7 = 6 or eYen = 0 ; according to the number ofits repetitions
and to other circumstances connected with the individual case ; as
we have already adverted to above, in defence of the necessity of
possessing a variety ofdrugs belonging to the same class, though
they apparently act altogether quite alike ; as we may, for in-
stance, apply with considerable advantage, in some nervous dis-
eases, a small quantity of one kind of wine, ·if no effect is caused
by another similar, and even weaker kind.
Though the opinion, that the specific quality ofdrugs .becomes
quite changed under different circumstances, has caused many er-
rors in practicalmedit:ine, and though this peculiarity is considered
by Hahnemann as one ofthe principal arguments of his doctrine,
still the contrary of his assertions will be easily proved, by exa-
mining more closely some iostaoees quoted by him and his ad-
herents.
We have seen that Hahoemann and Dr. Hering consider the
t:nre of frost-bitten limbs by means ofsnow, and the application of
beat to burns, as very effectual, and as of the most striking facts in
favour of homreopathia. We have also tried to prove, by the
principles of rational medicine, the untenable ground on which
D1g1tized by Google
185
th.ese experiences rest. Caloric presents, however, some other
phen~mena, which not less apparently confirm the erron;»us opi-
aion, that its effects on the living body are entirely different, or
even opposite, according to its different degrees. Every one m~st
admit, that we are entirely ignorant ofablolute cold and heat, and
are acquainted only with those degrees which we con ascertain.-
Should the influence of cold and warmth on the human body be
really so opposite, these different effects must of course become
most prominent in their greatest known extremes. But as both
these extremes produce th" same effect on the living animal body,
we may justly presume, that wherever the lower degrees of
warmth and cold prove to be contrary in their effects, this contra-
riety is to be explained in a ~anner not dilcordarat with their ab-
solute physical identity, but rather modified only by the specific
laws of organized life. Now we observe, that one ofthe highest
degrees of heat which we possess, the white heat ofiron, or the
focus of a burning glass, produces the same effect on the body
as one o( the highest degrees ofcold, frozen mercury ; both exci-
ting, if applied to the living body; violent inflammation 11nd im-
mediate mortification.•
Not content with the mere observation of these identical phe-
nomena, we may easily find the true cause of them in the laws al-
ways obvious in caloric, viz. that it tends to be distributed in aU
bodies equa11y, and in proportion to their specific capacity for it.
The white-bot iron, imparting at once a larger quantity of caloric
than the living part in contact with it can distribute so quickly,
causes inflammation in this spot, which subsequently mortifies ;-
the frozen mercury does the same, but only in another direction :
it absorbs the caloric so violently from the place of its contact,
that an immense quantity of caloric suddenly rushes from the con-
tiguous and all the ot~er parts of the living body, to bal-
ance the loss of the caloric absorbed by the frozen mercury : the
excessive quantity of caloric, thus momentarily accumulated at the
points of contact, produces the same effect, and causes the spot to
inflame: this spot likewise, by its great degree ofover-excit~ment,
passes quickly to the state of death, or mortification. If the dif-
* It appears that the ancients had a clear conception of the identical action of
the highest degrees of heat and cold, since we find in Pliny, Horace, and Cicero, the
e.xpressien " frigua urit."
24
Digitized by Google
186
ference between tbe free caloric contained in two bodies is not
very gryt, and consequently if the tendency to a Cree distribution
ofit is not excessive, the colder one applied will alw•y• abstrac\
caloric from tbe warmer body, but less quickly than wbere tbe
difference is greater. Tbis fact is confirmed in many other natu·
ral phenomena: for instance, i'n the two electricities, wbere also
the effect, in combining them, will be greater orless, in propor-
tion to tbe difference oftbe degree of plus E in tbe one and of
minos E in tbe otber.-lt generally appears a law of nature, that
wherever two opposite powers, or two opposite directions of the
same power act, the rapidity oftheir mutualtendency'to combine,
and to re11tore the disturbed equilibrium is always in direct propor-
tion to their different degrees•.
The profession formerly conHidered cold an astringent, on ac-
count of its physical contracting quality; afterwards as a stimulant,
and now, with more propriety, as the contrary, or as a powerful
antiphlogistic. As a mereastringent it will never act on the tissues
of the living body, because no physical power can act absolutely
• We find but few similar physical phenomena apparently contradicting this law,
which depends oncause~ not yet satisfactorily ascertained; aioce thesame cauae, when
reduced to it& lower degree, cannot alone produce what is generally effected by its
higher <legrees. Thus it is observed, that when the mercury in the thermometer bae
fallen to the freezing point of water, an increase of cold causes it to rise a little for a
short time. Though this may be partly explained by the cold, contracting unequally
the mercury and the glaM, yet it is remarkable, that aU thinr having been equal be-
fore the level of the mercury had reached the freezing point, ita falling was always in
a direct proportion to the diminished degree of warmth. Water, as stated by lllOf!em
experimentalists, does not present thia contradictory property, but augments in ita
denRity always in direct proportion to the degree of cold; it appears. tht>refore, still
more extraordinary, that water evaporates on white-hot iron less than at the lower
degreed of beat ; and though naturalists have explained this by the influence of
electro-magnetism which becomes tlevdoped, the fact that alcohol also evaporates
more at eome lower degrees of warmth than at higher oBes,also remains .unexplained.
These experiments, which we have not seen quoted by Dr. Metcalf, in his New The-
ory of Terrestrial .Magnetism, just published,-in conne.xion with other facts, eape-
cially with these,that magnetism is not communicated uniformly like caloric, and does
not impart its flaid or magnetic power to bodies susceptible for it, etc.--may form a
part of the many objections to h1s theory, to which more competent critics may ad-
nrt. Many phenomena, however, 11ttending the origin and cure of diseases may fa-
vour, if not the absolute identity of caloric and m~etism, (which proposition once
admitted, would likewise imvly the identity of caloTJc and electricity) but, at least,
their mutual dependance, or their always contemporary action.-When considering
that habit or custom playa so great a part in the living animal economy, bein~ one of
the most prominent prerogatives of organized life, it appears highly interestmg that
the magnet is the only one of all unorganized substaocee, which likewile depends DD
habit or custom, though generally in a proportion inverse to the influence of habit in
organizt'd livi~~g bodies, the magnetic power (reaction) being gradually increased by
habit. This similarity may hereafter open a large field for some interesting physiolo-
gical researches, as it may best explain the mysterious phenomena of animal mag-
neti•m ; much more so, since animal magneti1m is likewiae the only agent which in·
cre&M!I in its action by habit.
D1g1tized by Google
r 187
on it so long as it livea or is capable of any reaction, though the
tela celluloea as the most simple, least sensible and most vege-
tative tissue ofthe living animal body, appears to be most affected
by the astringent powers of cold ; but the higher and lower de-
grees of cold wiU operate sometimes as antiphlogistic, and some-
times as stimulant, according to its absolute degree, and also to
the degree of beat of the part to which it is applied. If the part
be very hot from genuine or plastic in6ammatien, ice may easily
injore, though a less intense degree of cold may be beneficial! be-
cause when ice is applied, more caloric goes to the part, which al-
ready superabounds in it, than is in the same time directly absorbed
by the ice, whereas a less intense cold wi!l absorb the beat of the
in6amed part without that inconvenience. But ifthe part be only
veryhot from a large local developement ofcaloric, not depending on
a genuine inftammation, as is the case in all pure asthenic or ady-
namic fevers, typhus, &c., or from a tendency to an inorganic
chemical decomposition, as is obvious in the last stages of putrid
fever~, ice may prove highly salutary, by operating as an indirect
powerful stimulant, and the lower degrees of cold may prove de-
trimental, its direct noxious in6ueoce being not overbalanced by its
indirect stimulus. This might become more evident in consider-
ing that the intense heat perceptible in patients dangerously ill
with typhus, and particularly with putrid fever, (the very cau.ms)
does not depend on the vital developemeot ofcaloric, attending all
plastic processes, and therefore superabuodantly increased, as in all
genuine in6ammations, but upon an opposite and rather passive
process, predominant in all those kinds of diseases, as far as
life admits of a tendency to inorganic decomposition of the solids
and 6uids, by which caloric also becomes always developed; this
may be proved by the characteristic heat of the patient, (calor mor-
dax) which will be observed in these diseases only, but never in
those where the vital powers are not so intensely reduced, and
much less in any genuine in6ammatory affection. In typhus
fever, with dangerous affections of the brain, delirium ferox or
taciturnum, sopor, &c., and in which the cautious but energetic
treatment. with stimulants, .revulsives, &c. is generally indicated,
fomentations of the head with cold water will be of more injury
than benefit to the patient, whereas bladders filled with pounded
icelare a powerful remedy and has sn.veJ the lives of many such pa-
tients; because in these cases it does not operate as nn antiphlo-
Digitized by Google
188
gistic, as is thought generally, but as a powerful indirecl stimulant
upon this centre of the nervoul! reaction, the brain ; promoting a
larger afBux of caloric to it, which, by encouraging a salutary re-
action, amply overbalances the direct deduction of stimulus by cold.
The manner in which caloric acts on organized living bodies,
offers highly instructive instances, particularly adapted for the satis-
factory explanation of many phenomena in animal life, and as
the great astronomer discovered the laws of gravitation from the
fall of an apple, so the reflecting physiologist may, from the few
remnants of life contained in a frozen apple, which are revived by
snow and the gradual application of warmth, but destroyed for
ever by its higher degrees, derive results highly important to theo-
retical as well as practical medicine.•
• The explanation of the action of caloric on the Jiving organised body contained
in the•e pages, relieves us from further objections to thia argument which Hahneman_n
alleges in support of hie maxim, "similia similibus curantur," Mying in ~1 of hia
Organon ; that the one hand bathed in warm warer ie at firat wArmer than the other,
but afterwards if taken out from it feels colder than the other, in couequence of ~e
after-operation of the warm water, and eo vice 't'8f88 if put lint into cold water. It IS
astonishing that a man who pretends to reform or rather to eatablieh the healing art,
ahould be eo ignorant u to quote such inatancea in support of his doctrine. If the
thermometer at the temperature of 80 deg. ie immersed in cold water of 30 deg.
and it falls to thia degree ; can it be well called an after-operation of warmth, or if
taken out of water at SO deg. and exposed to the temperature of the atmosphere of
70 deg. it rises again to 70 deg., can thia riai~ of 40 deg. be called an after-operation
of cold1 The feeling of cold after the hand ta taken from warm water will, beeillea
the cause quoted by ua above, be still more perceptible, becauae the iacreaaed warmth
has, according to the law of organized living bodies, "ubi irritatio ibi affiuxua humo-
rnm" attracted more ftuide, blood, &c., and increases afterwards by the more opened
pores, the evaporation, which abstracting caloric, must naturally ~;~roduce the aena:1tioo
ofcold; whereas when the hand baa been before in cold water Md •• afterwards exposed
to a warmer medium, it will increase the sensation of warmth by the increased ex-
citability for all stimulants, and therefore also for warmth. The detrimental action of
heat and cold depends much on the 11tat~ of the peraou and on the atate of the eur-
rounding atmosphere. Weakly persona are unquestionably very much injured by cold,
and the use of cold water, now recommended as a remedy in many diseases, and as a
preventive againat them, produce& a great many evils, as do many aimih•r recommen-
dations given under the erroneous impression that they are more congenial to tile
n81ural state of mf!n, which has long since passed away. Van Helmont says very
correctly, "frigidum non eat principium vitale sed extinctionia." MMy cases of
dyepepaia, rheumatism, &c., and particularly of cough, which turns to c!meu·mption,
arise frequf!ntly from cold water, though sometimes, but rarely, ice may prove a
remedy in diseases ofthe stomach and bowl'ls, for the reAson mentioned above when
speaking of ice in cerebral-typhus. Hahnemann in his Organon, and also in his Ma-
teria Medica, Vol. II., asserts, that when a penon much heated feels cold by
spirituous drinks, and hotter from cold drinkR, it d11pends likewise on a homreopathical
action of heat and cold. The fact is true, and would, if more strictly obaened, and not
abused, prevent many serious and even fatal diseases. It depends however on
thoae lawa of organized life, according to which tht> etimalue must be always propor-
tionate to the degree of excitability, if the vital actions shall not be disturbed, &c., and
!'leo o11: the fa~t.best explained by them, that all extremea, if they follow one '!'nother
tmmedtately, IDJUre and can even destroy the structure of all bodies, but particularly
organized living ones, since the equilibrium of the vital powers, eaaily euatained or
!eatored during a gradual change, cannot beestablished eo quickly in a sudden one. It
11 therefore also nry erroneous to consider merely the sudden transition from warmth
to coli obnoxiou•; the reverae ie not leu so, and many d!'Jigeroua diaeaees ofchildren,
Digitized by Google
189
The operations of many other agents and dnJ«s, producing as
well as curing sickness, according tQ the difference of their dose,
are however to be considered the same. A slight cold, for instance,
may check the secretion ofthe Schneiderian membrane and cause
a dry catarrh ; one which is severer at the commencement, or fol-
lows the first, may excite this membrane to a profuse secretien ; and
a similar but more severe affection will check the secretion again
from thesame cause, but being more intense than in both the pre-
vious cases, it' may generate by over-excitement, an inflammation
extending to the throat, the trachea and even to the. lungs. The
cause of all these different states is always the same and acts in the
same manner, but either under different circumstancesorin different
degrees of strength, and nobody can reasonably assert, that in the
third degree of the actionjust mentioned, the samecause had cured
homreopathically what a minor degree in the second stage of the
same disease had previously produced. .AB instances of simple
drugs, we may cite Rhubarb, Ipecacuanha and Opium. Rhubarb
is acknowledged to be a purgative in large doses, but small doses
of it are beneficial in looseness of the bowels. It is not yet ascer-
tained, but we are confident, that many other-purgatives, especi-
ally those which are considered as tonics, would do the same under
certain circumstances, if used in dOBeil small enough in proportion
to their purgative quality, without regard to the homreopathic
particularly croup, inBammation of the brain, &c., arise from their approach to the fire
when they have been before exposed to cold air. Cold can be applied without injury
only in a very few diseaaes, ~hough aometimes very desperate cases are cured by it,
especially by alternately sudden changesoftemperature; as all agen&a which are capable
of doing great injury, are also aomet!mea of great benefit; thus for instance, tic doulou-
reux {proaopalgia,) is sometimes cured merely by sudden alternate applications of bot
water and ice, though this disease is so painful and obstinate that such patientssubmi'
to the most painful surgical operations, rather than to suffer the pains, which however
frequently resist all medical and surl{ical assistance. Persons who are accustomed
to sudden change• of temperature will bear them much easier without injury, and are
milch morerrotected against many morbid affections than others, because tbe particular
inBuence o habit belongs to the moat prominent and characteristical properties of
organized living bodies. It should therefore be considered as one of the most impor-
tant object s of a judicious physical education of children, to accustom them, from
their earliest infancy, to alternate changes by batha gradually, with other circum-
epective precautione. The Ruuian bathe, now ao fashionable in Europe, may there-
fore be very much recommended for young and healthy peraone, to harden them to the
vicillitudes of atmospheric temperature, and mar also be considered as a powerful
remedy in some inveterate chronic diseases, in whtch a torper of reaction prevails, as
in gout, some ne"oue affections, &c.; provided there are no local affections of internal
organs, especially those where plethora predominates ; but when used witheut due pre-
caution, they sometimes prove highly obnoxious and even fatal. This is easily ex·
plained when we reflect that even lifeless bodies, possessing the greatest cohesion,
for instance a large piece of flint, which may have resisted all influences in nature for
thousand• of yeare, falls immediately into dust, when after exposure to a high degree
of heat, it ia thrown into cold water. How much more will man be affected by a eud-
den aequel of both extremes, if not very healthy, etrong, and accuetomed to it.
Digitized by Google
190
maxim. These different and contmry actions may be easily
explained physioiGgically in the following manner, without the aid
of homreopathia, and rather in opposition to its maxims, viz. ; in a
large dose they over-excite the mucous membrane of the intestines,
and the subsequent relaxation produces a larger excretion offluids,
already· attracted by the increased specific stimulus; whereas, in a
reasonable small dose, their primary effect remains weaker and the
natural consequences of the over-excitement and relaxation men-
tioned, are not only absent, but, on the contrary, if such a relaxa~
tion bas previously existed, as is the case in a protracted diarrbrea,
it will be diminished and cured. A relatively small dose of rhu-
barb, or of another purgative, might always produce coetiveoess by
that reason also, because, before it reaches the large intestines, it
operates on the stomach and small intestines, their nerves, &c.,
where, as a slight stimulus, it produces an antagonistical reac-
tion, and checks the secretion in the lower parts ofthe intestinal
tube, in a manner discordant with Hahnemann's rude conceptions
of this very allopathic mode, and more similar to Rasori's theory of
contra-stimulus. Ipecacuanha also, like other emetics, ifgiven in
very small doses, may check a hyperemesis, which has re!'isted the
best remedies known, because, as is ascertained by the interesting
experiments of Magendie, the·action ofemetics depends particularly
on their influence upon the par vagum and its continuance in, and
ultimate connexion with, the nerves of the stomach.-In a mor-
bid distemper, however, of this section of the nervous system,
causing a particular morbid reaction of the stomach, small doses
of Ipecacuanha will check vomiting, as well as inany substances
which otherwisewould have checked it, will increase it. Obstinate
cases of vomiting or purging will -sometimes be quickly cured by
sufficiently powerful emetics or cathartics, after all otlu:r remedies
have failed, simply because they remove not a remote, but a proxi-
mate cause; for instance the remnants ofindigestible food, which
nature alone could not remove on account of her too tardy and
weak action ; by every slight and useless exertion, the evil still in-
creases, while on the contrary, by the aid ofa powerfulremedy,
causing a very brisk reaction, the patient is cured by removing
the material cause.-In all these cases we·purposely abstra,cted
from the indirect removal of such a disease, by changing only the
furm ofthe present state, or by substituting a new order of things
which, though aggravated, does not "Uow the prominent cause
Digitized by Google
191
and its symptom to exist any ionger.-Opium in small doses is an
excellent remedy in looseness of the bowels, but large doses of it
may produce diarrhrea by over-exciting the ganglions, nerves, &c.
of the intestinal canal, which therefore is very difficult to cure, as
are all diseases which originate from repeatedover-excitements, and
particularly, all diseases .following habitual intemperance in spi-
rituous drinks. A small dose of opium, as ,..e have already hinted,
may, however, render radical relief in obstinate costiveness, and
act as a purgative where all drugs considered as purgatives have
failed, by removing the nervous anresthesia, or the particular dis-
temper, (parresthesia) which prevents the natural functions from
being performed, and renders also cathartics ineffectual.
To prove that intluences belonging to the same class, or even
identical, may cause quite opposite actions, we refer also to mental
intluences1 which merely differ in their strength and not in their
nature, or depend also upon individual predisposition. In this
manner the reliefwhich the slightly affected heart feels in shedding
tears, is denied to the sufferer of a greate~ misfortune or when
possessed of more sensitive and deeper feelings.-ln all these
inatances no one of sound conception will find any thing similar
to a homreopathic action of exceedingly small doses opposite to
their action in comparatively very large ones, but all phenomena
minutely corrrespond with the principles of sound physiology aad
rational medicine.
Sometimes the great influence of a small dose, and the efficacy
of a comparatively very large one, solely depend upon the still
more evident local vital reaction. Thus a few graius ofarsenic or
of any strong poison may be more fata~ than an ounce of the same
substance taken at a dose, only because the large dose excites so
powerful and quick a reaction of the stomach, that there is then
more chance of the rejection of all its contents, than when only a.
few grains are taken, which might. sit on the stomach and destroy
life. Even on superficial reference to such a fact, nobody would
think that arsenic is to be considered as acting in the inverse ratio
of its bulk and weight. Every one will 4dmit that one ounce of
arsenic divided into grains will poison, without any particular
virtue developed by an homreopathic manipulation, and that the
true nllture of this substance, though operating more uncondition-
ally than many, is not in the least changetl by the difference of
Digitized by Google
192
the dose itself, but that its effect depends on particular conditions.
All the substances which do not act mechanically, operate on t.he
living animal body only relatively, and though they operate as
remedies in direct proportion to their quantity and quali,y, they
nev~r act unconditionally and absolutely, as Hahnemann asserts in
respect to his virtues developed from drugs. We may say
with propriety that, excepting the primitive eternal cause of all
nature, no power acts absolutely and unconditionally; but that all
are wisely counterbalanceCl and checked by one another, and that
this produces principally the immense variety of actions in the
universe. ·Every man therefore who believes or asserts that a
power, developed by him, acts absolutely and unconditionally,
the eame ·under all circumstances, and without being check-
ed or altered by the induence of any natural power, may justly
be considered as destitute of common sense, and of all natural
religious feeling. It is evident that, if this bold and often repeat·
ed assertion of Hahnemann be true, we cannot conceive why,
among many other inconsistencies of a similar kind, Hahnemann
makes the salutary operations of his developed drug-virtues to de-
pend upon the absence of all remedial induences to which the
patient may be exposed1 why be acknowledges the induenee of
idioeynocrasy and habit1 why be so frequently prescribes antidotes
in cases where homreopathic doses acted improperly or too violent·
ly1 why be cautions his\ollowers against undertaking the treat-
ment of a patient who has previously been illtreated by an allopa-
tbist1 and why, in publishing his" great truth," be himself could
ever admit the many failures of his earlier treatment fot upwards
of twenty years, which, as be himself avows, bad induced him to
labor twelve years upon another treatment ofall chronic diseases-
all of which palpably contradict the absolute and unconditional
operations of his drug-virtues, though he continues the eame As-
sertions in his later works1 Is it not the greatest nonsense to sti-
pulate any condition for a power eaid to act always absolutely and
unconditionally1*
"Go teach eternal wiadom bow to rule, .
"Thendrop into thyeelf and be a fool."-Pope.
• As a specimen of the many revolting eipreeeione in regard to the infallibility of
their doctrine, with wllicb not only Hahnemann'a works, but also thoee of hie dieciplea
abound; we quote the remarks of Dr. Kopp, who atatea in hie work above mentioned,
page 487, that Dr. Hartlaub and Dr. Trinka in their Materia Medica, and also in
Archiv. f. h. Heillt. Vol. II., No.3, publicly declare in regard to the infallible cure of
hydrophobia by &he boJD(Bopatbic method, " that eaob llllfortUD&te iuuo oi t.bja
Digitized by Google
193
With r.egard t.o the greaJ1r mildf&B&f claimed by Hahnemaon
and the nalhor, of t.be Cooeise View on pnge 14, for . the hoailel!o-
".P~~Cking di.ease ia alwaya to be ascribed to the attendin~ phyeician," theugh ,we
know qf no.imtaru:e ill which their treatiJ!eDt haa succeeded m hydrophobia, b~t ~~Mia,
where. it hatr failed. :
\Ve·.are ~old by good authority, that in an American city, some hommopathists bnp
recently collected t¥ aaliva of a rabid dog. probably for no other purpose than to
adminwter it il!,hydrophobia. We hope they will not be eo crazy as to venture i~
application on healthy persons, for ascertaining the validity of their conceptions about
drug-sjokoeaa, nor to administer it as a prophylactic in any case, where a person ia
bitten by a rabid dog. Both, but the former particularly, should be considered 11s
,murderona nperimeota, tince according to many instances on record, persons wound-
ed by a dpt unquestionably rabid, have escaped without danger. As a homreopathic,
or in these cases more particularly termed i4opathic remedy against hydrophobia
it..(, '-be .th.irtieth dilution of .one drop 11f hydrophobic matter will probably do no
posi~i,e injury, \Jut would be hi!(hly objectionable, merely as causing the neglect of
011ter ~mportant measures prncr~bed by the profession. It appears to us very ii,con-
aistent. for .homceopathillts atill to trust to. the hydrophobic virus, after the "great
truth" of their great genius sb\)uld have taught them that hydrophobia is particu-
larly entitled to all the singular privileges of the itch, and will certainly be radically
cured by amelling of a sugar grain as large as a hempseed, and moistened with the
thirtieth dilution of table salt.-Sometimes the contemptible "learned l ~ mber"
would sjd them a lilLie. In this case, for iuatance, they would then know that there
Me many xeaaons for believing that the hydrophobia of animals depends on the twin·
brotJu~r Q( ~itch, viz. on alopecia or leproais, which is particularly common to the
ill.nue canis, to the fox, wolf, &c. . .
We do not detpair of tbe curability of this tremendous ecourge, though we niuat
candidlyconfess.thl).t allopathists, rational as well as empirical, have hitherto succeeded
ao seldom, that il may justly be s~ll declared incur11ble by them. In these case•
modern med,icjne h!l$ likewise tried in v11in to apply its all-curing antiphlogistic trellt-
ment to thft utmo•t extreme. Bleeding, ad deliquium, was frequently prescribed, but
to our knowle4ge without one instance of a positive benefit. We should think that
without a ch!lmical deatruclion or neutralization of such a violent 'fld unaRsimilab1e
virus, aod withou~ an energetic though cautious support of the vital powers, either.to
subdue ite etfec~s or to convey it to the primttrily affected place, where it can be
diacllarged by.tb~t excretory organs, all the exertions of the art must prove fruitless,
~d that therefore, .so long as we do not possess a diatinctantidote, the method which
Ieoda to prostrate to the u1woet all \"ital actions, mu~t be considf'red the wof6t of all.
The inferences drawn from the indammtttion of ;he par vagum and of the other
urves and ganglia oflhe neck, the throat, &c., as derived from some post mortem
uaminations of i1ydrophobic persons, cannot reasonably justify such an extreme anti·
phlogistic t.reatment, even if we were certain that the iufhmmatory state should have
existed at all, or at a still higher d11gree during life. It would be difficult to compre-
hend howan indammation, exi~ting in the finest nets of the capillary ;uteries, veins and
lymph'!tics, could be subdued by an abstraction ofblood, not only on 8ccountofthe phy·
aicallaws of capillarity, but also by the violent atimulus of such a heterogepeous v1r~s.
Even admitting the truth of modern physiological experimen~s and also ofobservations
in diseases. that by larj!e bleedings the re•orption is promoted more than.by any other
remedy ; we would ask, is it probable that such a pernicious virus will be resorbed by
the vasa absorbentia, then pass through the whole circulation, and then again be de-
poaited .in a secretory aqd excretory organ,-which processes the viruR must necea-
aerily undergo before it can be removed,-wi~hout doing, if possible, dill more injury,
than when remaining in tile said placea1 The analogy drawn from the benefits
generally derived from an antiphlogistic treatment in infectious P.xanthematic diseases
like small-pox. measles, .&c. i~ not applicable to hydrophobia, since in these diseases
the cutaneoua iodanunallon bemg more or leas considerably extended, and the func-
tion of aucn a large emuQctory orgAn, 118 the whole skin, i~ much restrictI'd, the anti·
phl~gitt.ic t.reatment ie not ~nly more necessar~, but this mus~ be .also of ~ m<>re
promine•t induence ; farther, 10 these exanthemat1c d1aeases the vnus 1s more diffused
OYer .the whole reproductive system, ancl.becomes gradually assimi111ted b~ ~he.ditfe!•
eat s~es of the disease; and laally, this method of treatment provea lnJUflous m
thoae cases al•o if carried too far, or if the diaeue ie complicated with nervous al'fec-
25
Digitized by Google
pathica.Uy developed drug-virtues, we would further remarl, that
if his statement be correct, it involves consistently the assertion.,.
tiona, &c. The great similarity between hydrophobia and the moat dangerous and
fatal nervoua affections, particularly triamua and tetanus ; the f11et that diatinct
eymptoma of apontaneous hydrophobia are aometimea eeen aa acce110rie1 iu important
nervoua affection&, for inatence in typhua and intermittent fner, &c., fnour the
opinion that hydrophobia is a moat violent dieeaee of the nervous ayetem, seated pro-
bably most prominently in the upper part of the spinal marrow and the medulla
oblongata. the canalis cerebro-apinali~ Majlendii, the ganglion intercaroticum, (?) &c.
The attAntion of the profeesion should therefore be particularly directed to moae
remedies which act principally on the whole nervous system, and particularly en the
apillat marrow, rather than to any other mode, provided the utmoet peranerance ia
the judicious local treatment of the wound by etimulante and euppuratives, which
should always be regarded as the princi.Pal object, is carefully observed.
The treatment of the older schools w1th belladonna, meloe proscarabeua, canthar-
ide., &c., would, perhaps, have succeeded better if attended with the proper local
treatment of the wound, and the aimuhaneoua use of large doses of mercury. The
powerful alcaloides di~overed by modern chemistry in the articles mentioned, and in
other dru 1s, asVeratrine, particularly their endermic application, opea a large field for
trials, wh ch, if duly and perseveringly continued, may grant us the great •ictory o~er
this scandalum medicorum. We may justly attribute the failure hitherto attendlnJ
the use of these drugs, in their ellternal exhibition, to the erroneous opinion that 1t
makes no difference in what manner they rue applied externally, and that the dilated
wound is the beat J-lace to apply them; this, however, is not the proper endermie trea~
ment, and contradicts the known fact, that the absorbent veneta and the nerves are
generally more numerous and active on the surface of the akin, immediately below
the epidermis, than in the depth of the musdes; it is also nident that the inftuence
of the drugs is either frustrated by the torpor or morbid process of the primitiYe le-
sion, or will be destroyed by the neceeaary dilatation of the wound and iteeuppuration,
by which they are also soon removed. It ie obvioue that both objecta canr.ot be at·
tained in the same place, and that, as the local suppuration ie intended to remove the
virus, the endermic remedy cannot enter the ayetem by absorption on the same spot
simultaneously.-Why bas not the profeseion continued to try hot vapour bathe, (108"
F.) by which Dr. Brisson intended to kill himeelf, but waa cured by them, when th•
eymptoms of hydrophobia were already developed! Ten years ago Dr. B. comma·
uicated this and many simtlar statements of brilliant curea to the Academie dee
Sciences at Paris ; such a mode is, morRover, very consistent with rational princi·
ples ; among which we may particularly advert to the fact, that idiopathic by·
drophobia affects exclusively animals which do not perspire by the ekia, and ytot it i.
totally neglected. We venture also to euggest that electricity, and particularly the
intensA galvanism of a Voltaic pile, might be tried with auccen, wht>n persevered in,
since it would offer the most efficacious mtoane for revulsing the morbid process, an4
perhaps the virus itself, from the affected parts of the spinal manow, the nerves and
their ganglions, to the place of its originaleeat, and possibly, destroy there beat chemi-
cally the hydrophobic matter. If even many of these trials fait, the profession should
not act as is common with many rllmedies newly recommended, and af\er considering
them as all-curin)t medicines for a short time, reject them too eoon ; but should coo-
tmuc the experiments in other places, under the correct eupposition, that we know u
yet but little about the functional and sympathctical conncxions ofthe nervous system,
particularly ofthe immense variety ofits diseases, and that at the distance of-only haifa
geometrical line, or still less, an experiment might succeed when it had failed eo neu
this spot.-Our opposers, the homceopathists. might perhaps conclude from our objec-
tions made at the beginning of this note, and from many other expressions in th-
pages, where we confess our great regard to the smallest quantities of a virus or ofa re-
medy, that we act with inconsistency or duplicity in being directly in favour of theil
whimsical doses of drugs, though directly opposed to them. But every rational pby·
sician will be in favor ofsmall doses under particular circumstances, and when they art
within the bounds of reason; so too every one will admit that an inconeiderably nnall
power added to a large one may be the principal cause of an effect, but that tbie doea
not justify us in considering the small power as ab8olutely 14rger than itreally ie. "A
vat of a ·capacity of thousands of hogsheads may OYedlow by on• drop only, but doea
thia imply that one drop alone is eufficient to fill it! ·
Digitized by Google
195
t'hal the drug has become changed into another substance,'Since it is
not proper to say, that one-eighth of a grain of opium acts more
mildly than a whole grain ofit when taken at once, but only that its
specific action willbe less, when compared with anothersimilar sub-
stance, for instance, with the extract of Henbane (Hyoscyamus ni-
ger, L.); we can only say this acts more mildly, though no phy-
sician would doubt that a sufficiently large quantity of the latter
will prove more injurious than a very small quantity of opium.
Thus also nobody would say that the electric fluid acts on the hu·
man body more mildly than light, because the former developed
from a small piece of sealing-wax: produces no ~ffect, but intense
light destroys the sight :-such minute, though not subtle distinc·
tions, materially affect the principles of practical medicine, and
hence, in so important a science, we should leave no expression of
that kind without a clear conception, nor should vague product;ons
of the imagination be confounded with abstract ideas and the re·
suits of trne experience, on which all medicine rests.
If Hahnemann had offered the profession new and unknown
drugs for definite diseases, and had stated that, according to repeated
experiments instituted by him with the greatest accuracy, and even
ander the injunction that such drugs should not be given in larger
doses than the billionth, or a similar fraction of a grain, and that
the· grain must be divided exactly in such or such a peculiar man-
ner, &c., no one could, with propriety, o~ject a priori, and the
correctness of these statements would depend upon fair trials. If
they were proved to be correct, by repeated and careful experiments,
th.en another question would arise, whether they could or could
not be explained by acknowledged laws of nature.. When, at a
minute scrutiny, they are found to be totally at variance with such
laws and with those of the human intellect, still no man of sound
judgment woulll forthwith adopt one or more supernatural powers
-or miracles as tile causes of these phenomena, since he would
be reminded, that at least in this world, all natural phenomena
depend on fixed laws engrafted upon nature by the infinite wisdon:
of her eternal Creator, and that many phenomena,which appeared
to our ancestors as supernatural, are now referred with mathemati-
-cal exactitude to definite laws, depending upon or intimately con-
nected with the universal law~ of nature; be would accept with
gratitude such discoveries, and confessing his ignorance of the na-
tural ·cause, he would feel in duty bound to use them wherever
it appeared to him necessary or salutary. But if we are told by
Digitized by Google
196
Hahnemann, that dr~ which have been WJed daily for eenturie~
by thousands of trustworthy'physicians, and in di,rerent countries
by grains, drachms and ounces, in powders, infusions, deooctioDSf
&c., not only tlJitlwut any injury, and Without obsening one o(
the many symptoms which Hahnemann and his followers pre-
tend alwa!Js to observe, but frequenuy with the mos~ salutary
effect; if we are told that the same drugs ha\'e always proved de-
trimental, if given in larger doses than 'he many thouaand-mil-
lion.th partof one grain, ever since Hahnemann hns pursued a. mode
of treatment different from that which he himselft for upwaads of
thiaty years had followed on a mucl£ larger scale than nlOflt other
practitioner:<'; if furtJter the same man t~lls us, that substances,
dailg used by ounces or ~unds, by men and ania,na.ls as indu·
pensable for their life and health, become transmuted into vident
drugs, of which even the smallest imaginable fraction of one
grain may produce great injury or benefit, and that such fractions
of one grain of a substance optain this power by' certain processes,
hitherto also justly considered incapable of cha.oging in IM lelt/81
the property belonging to any substance ;-4hen we have full cause
to su::pect the grossest errors or premeditated imposition, especially
when all these stateJnents come from a man like Samuel Hahne- ·
manu, who has ooen guilty of the greatest charlatanism and in-
tentional falsehoods.• His trials with simple drugs on healthy
* The his~ory of man pr,eaenta' ue with many instances, where great discoveriea
ha•e bAen disregarded, nd1culed and even persecuted, although made by truly gteat
men, who have advanced their age for centuries ; the history ofall sciences prove.
that truth, like the noble fruit, requires to be carefully cultivated and fostered, whereas
error, credulity and superstition, like rank weeds, apontaneoualy ·aDd ·hrzari1111tly
spread O\'cr the fields. The same instructive source sadly teacllea. ua, that mao-
kind generally weighed truth and falsehood, not accordin~ to their intrinsic worth,
but only to the maJority of votes, or the numblll' of years wh1ch they have laeted1 quite
unmiudfol, that a~ lead will ne\'er change into gold by the decision of any large majo-
ri,ty or by any length of time, just 80 a falsehood will nner become trae. But, neYer-
theless no acientilic fanaticism ever ventured 80 far, as to compare the grossest whims
and absurdities proclaimed 10 palpably by Hahnemann, with the discoveries and merill
of a Galileo and Columbus. IL would be tedious to enlarge more on this eubjt.Ct
here, by further quotations from many places in Hahnemann's works, where he states
that all drugs hitherto used in common doiM's, act absolutely ee poisons and are harm-
leas only once in many hundred cues. Well educRted, intelligent and honest pro.
fesaional men who rend hie works attentively, will find our statement confirmed;
and any body can easily imagine bow such assertions must naturally appear to men,
who, beside their study ofjll'&etical medicine, have for many y~ars daily used the same
drugs in the largeet doses with unquestionable benefit, both when diseased themselves
and with their patients, and who have also seen, in many caaes1 the inaufficiency alld
failures of the homreopathic treatment, and the injury which is frequently caused by
the neglect of homreopatbist., in not adlllinilltering proper and timely aid. The man-
ner in which Hahnemann and his adherents endeavour to defend such failures is iJt.
deed exceedingly ridiculous and contemptible, as the instances already quoted by us
aboYe will h.ve 8Q5eientJr proved ; bu~, lltvertbelest, tlle f!lilo.,m, is wonh remarlt-
.111g : Hahnemann, in hie Materia Medica, Vol. In. p. 6, where he challeugea hia
Digitized by Google .
197
plfBorts, though they ole not"w liis inventiou and ha'Ve Jed·hlm to
the ffi08t euperstitious and absurd conclusions, may, nevertheles!j
be interesting to the profession, ifimpartially instituted in the sense
suggested above, and deserve therefore to be ~blitinued even with
mctny ofsuch drugs as are condemned by him. His niaxim, sim1lia
similibus curanlur, and even his marvelous itch-doeuine, with all
its gross absurdities and contradictions, 1night at least admit some
conject~res, whieh do not differ so widely from other fanciful theo-
ries and ~;~uggestions recorded in ·.the history of medicine, though
never expressed with such a teltal disregard (){ truth, with such
unblushing self-conceit, such a contempt of all other experience,
and with such an unparalleled charlatanit!rn in the promises of a
never-failing medioal omniscience and certainty of cure ;-but
Hahnemann's assertions about the virtues developed from simple
drugs by manipulations of !tis invention, and his statements of
w.hat has been observed only by/rim and !tisfollovJers, oblige us
disciple~ and follower:" w expose hom<Eopatbia .to J:lllblic co.nt~mpt, by· pl~ing before
the pubhc all the particulars legally confirmed, ifhl.8 presc11ptum•, t/wugh '1lVi¥UIJo6·
Se11Jcd, had failed, Cunningly adds in itaJicB, "BUT HAVE ALSO ALL OTHER RE~EDU.t.
" JNFLU&I'ICEB B&liOVED tROll THB PATIENT." Jt ie evident that. by tbia condition
alone no failure whatever ofa homreopathist can possibly be proved, since, aa we haYti ..
seen above, according to his doctrine, every thing may be considered as a remedial
inll.uence,if 2_ of one grain of common table salt should act se powerfully on "
the
10•• .
human body, cases may occur, that in which it is. sufficient mer~lyto •meU of a sugar•
pellet, not .larger tb~n a he~tp-se~, moistened wJLb ~uC?h a.d.ilu~tOBl .or if,.as we ltare
seen in Dr. Hermg s Concise Vtew, even parsley dtstmctly belongs to the class of
impurl~nt remedial age11ta Whal patient· would lie ablecoiiBcienliotaly to deny that
he has not been m contact wtth some table salt, or has not been-exposed to ~be inllu•
ence· of some ·hamreopathie remediil! substance, as parsley, solphur ~ &c. Anothet
pieoe of cunning advice of Hahne.m~un to hie followersia, •e we have sun, that they
should avoid the treatment of patients who have ev.er been under the care of a mur-
derous all~pathist, iince .~i3 may frustrate all their eXIl!tions. Now, who could
comply with such oondil10ns, and, tf he could,. the mfatuated bom~opathist
would not believe it, but would persuaJe his ' patient, that . hie memory was
treacherous, and tpat, trot l<iiJg sillCI&, he must liave taken a few grains of calomel,
or that he must have recently smelled sulphur, belladonna, must have paseed
near some place where tlie thom-apple or even roses !Vow, &c.-We know
some very amusing instan~es in whi~h1• a£ter these ma.gicume .Clould not·succeed
with all their developed vtrtues, t~ey tnststed upon th.etr subterfug:e, that .the pa-
tient must absolutely be under·}he.mflpence of. a remedial agent, -
wlnth counteracted
and frustrated their absolutely and vnconditi0114lly acting and.nel!cr-faiJing.druj!'•Vir·
tues. Iti (me such case, related to us by a respectable and trust-worthy phys,ic1an, a
patient, who had been pel'lllladed bj the salll8 half-wittedGeraiau merchant, mentioned
above; to consult the homrel>f>athic doctor for some chronic dise:ue, became daily
worse, and was at hiet confined \o liis room. When one day the doctor visited him,
just as he was lig~ting his cigar.with a small match ; the doctor obserying. it, ex-
claimed, with a senous face anJ with great pathos, " Now I see why my.exertions are
" in vain ; my sllspiciona are now.confirmed ; you are 11Dder the rem•dial influence of
" sulphur, which must counteract all my best selected remedies; this ie unqueation.
•• ably the only r~u~ why you do not recover!". ·!he patient, alr~ady tire~ of all
the " triflea and BJcettes never beard ofbeforel" applietl to a commonaHopathitt, whO' .
fortunately soon cured him, in spite of the continued remedial agency of the aulphur
on a match. .'
D1g1tized by Google
198
~ither to declare them gross falsehoods, or to renounce all truth
•
hitherto acknowledged and even confirmed by mathe~atical cal·
culations, and believe implicitlyin supernatural powers and miracles
at the disposal of man.
We see indeed no other chance, not merely with regard to
medicine alone, but also generally to the laws of the human under-
standing, and to those derived from all the minute researches of
natural philosophy and the many sciences and arts connected with
them. We can prove these, our assertions, fro~ Dr. Hering's
pamphlet, where we read, on pa~e 14-, "Medicines which had
"undergone these operations no longer posses:;ed those long conti-
" oued effects ofa prejudicialcharacter,which we so frequently have
"to witness from crude articles. Their operation is always rapid,
" of short continuance, and without danger, &c. Moreover, these
" dilutions were thus extraordinary small in appearance only;
· " they were in fact operative by reason of the pure energy proper
" to the medicine developed by art, and not by reason of the original
" matter of it. Hence they could not be too small or too weak ; for
"it was shown in a manner not to be mistaken, that the proper
" medicinal virtue was by no means diminished in them, but, in
" their lower grades it was at first unfolded and developed, and it
"was only by their continuation that it began again to decrease.
''But as regards its capability of exciting the organization to salu-
" tary action,there was never any diminution, it was still witnessed,
~'even though the dilutions were continued, until they reached
"some hundreds in number. In the higher dilutions, however, it
''was so modified as more quickly to excite the organization to
''opposition, but the opposition continued for a short time." And
oa page20, " By means ofthese triturations and dilutions,so called,
"it was the matteronly which became so minutely divided, but it
"was the energy, the virtue only which was thereby so astonish-
" ingly unfolded, &c.;" and ibid, " when the process of Trituration
" or Agitation was too long continued, the energy of the medicine
"became too intensely raised," &c. And again on page 28, "when
" no reliefwhatever is possible, they dono injury." Though we have
already determined what the proper meaning ofthelargest oramall-
eathomreopathic doses must be, if there shall be any sense in them;
we ask any impartial reader, of common sense, ifafter the repeated
perusal of these quotations, he can comprehend this "potenziaer1'
nonsense, and particularly if he can reconcile that one and the
Digitized by Google
199
same thing decreases, a,nd again becomes astonishingly ·unfolded, •
so that its energy proves to be too intensely raised; and that all
this being effected by one and the same process, the final result
shall be a power, muck smaller than it was at the beginning of
the processes, called only triturations and solutions; what are they
then else1 Are they not then avowedly witchcraft, chiromancy, &c'I
But it may be still more illustrating to quote here the master's
own remarkable expressions. Hahnemann begins the second
volume ofhis treatise on Chrouic Dis~:ases with the following words,
" The changes which take place in all natural productions, espe-
" cially in drugs, by constant triturations with a substance not
" medicinal, or by shaking with a fluid not medicinal, are so in-
" credibly great as to be almost miraculous, and it is gratifying
"that the discovery of these wonderful changes belongs to homreo-
" patbia. The medicinal powers of tht>se substances, as we have
" stated elsewhere, are not only developed by it in an unmeasurable
''degree, but their chemical and physical conditions are so changed,
"that if their solubility in water or alcohol could never before be
" perceived .in their crude elementary state, they, after their peculiar
"metamorphosis, become quite soluble in water or alcohol ; a
"discovery which I first published to the world !"-We leave it to
the fancy of any one to imagine what substance can be not medi.
cinal, if all natu7'al productions are capable of having a virtue
developed from them.-Hahnemann continues to assert not only
that by this manner, all substances, like flint, all metals, the pure
as well as the sulphuretted and oxydated, become soluble in water
or alcohol, but also that they remain unaltered for years in respect
to all their singular properties thus acquired, and especially in
their particular state, termed by him "potenzised." Thus for
instance in speaking of pure phosphorus, he adds expressly, "I
" do not mean its acid;" of course the contrary being the opinion of
all "over-refined chemists," who believe phosphorus easily oxyda·
ted by, but not soluble in water; it cannot be his opinion. He says
farther, loc. cit. " We shall find also in this, their enhanced and
"almost glorified state, that no neutralization whatever takes place.
" The medical virtues of Natrum, Ammonia, Barytes, Lime and
" Magnesia, will in this their highly potenzised state, not perhaps
" be neutralized when a dose is taken, as they do in their crude
"state as bases, by a drop of vinegar ; their medicinal power is
" neither to be altered nor annihilated. Nitric aeid prepared ancl
Digitized by Google
•
200
"taken in"this manner for the use of homcmopathists, in the proper
" bomc:ooPathic developement and dose, will not become changed
"in its strong definite medical action, if Lime or ~atrum be taken
"afterwards, and therefore will not become neutralized.'~ On ~e
272, Vol. IV., of the same work, on mentioning the comm~n in-
offensive use of table ult, (Natrum muriatioum or Sodm tnuri<ti)
one of hie favorite antipsorica-probably on account of ·Pliny's
statements, who mentions in his n~turaJ history, lib. xxxiv. '.' sea·
biem pecorum sal tollit."--Hahnemann says, "and yet the
"greatest medical virtues are concealed in it. Is it not· therefore
"evident, even tQ the most short'iiighted, that •he peculi~• bomreo-
"pathical preparations oC medicalt~ubsiaoees reveal almost a ~ew
"world of p.ower51, which have hitherto r&mainw coo.Ct'aled in
" qature ; thus by the transmutation of common table salt from
"its 4;rude and inactive nature inw a violent medicine, it is·to 8e
"given af~r this preparation, with the greatest precaur.Kla, to the
"d~ased person. What a.n inereciible transmut:atiod,.·an~ 'ytt
" how true I apparently a new ereati.O ! The pure· taMe salt
"carried in this manner tQ the decilliontli develi:lpemell'tofpower/'
<.:60 )"is one ofthe strongest antipsori~ ~edicil'les, as its annexe~
.. . .
"peculiar effect on the healthy body/' (89.5 symptoms of its drug·
. .
disease) "manifests, but cannot be given without injury t~ sick
"persons suffering from itch, in more than one or two small sugar
" pellets moistened with a fluid impregnated with its decillionth
"dcveioped power. .But individuals injured by allopathic stimu·
" laots, and those who are very much debilitated and very sensible,
" will not .bear even this small dose, and if this drug is then
"called for from homceopathic reasons, they can only be permitted
"to smell once ofa sugar-pellet of the size of a hempseed, moist·
"ened with that solution, as a dose sufficient to perpetuate its
"effect from fifteen to twenty days."
Now we candidly ask all unprejudiced men of common sense;
professional or unprofessional, if they have ever read more non·
sense than is contained in these few quotations 1 It is difficult
to believe that this has been printed a thousand times, in a country
distinguished for its high standing in literature, for its great phill)-
sophers and learned men; and this in the midst of the nin~teentu
~eotury! On attentive reflection, it is still more difficult to believe
that men exist, who, professing to possess sound judgment and to
be well educated, and pretending that the life and h~alth of their
Digitized by Google
201
fellow-men could be confidently entrusted to tlieir profe&>ional skill
and care, would credit only for a moment such hare-brained ab-
surdities as purest truth and greatest wisdom, nay ! boldly aseert,
that by such productions, "a new era has dawned upon all the
"natural sciences; a new period has dawned -upon pathology,
"as well as on all the certain sciences, and that its author is to be
"regarded as one of the greatest medical geniusses of the age."
(See Hering's Concise View, page 4 and 24.)
The greatest truth ever written by Samuel Hahnemann is hia ·
own conclusion, which he artlessly draws from his statements in
regard to the mi1·ades, the glorified state, and the new world de-
veloped by his manipulations from his drug-atoms.-He calls the
monstrous children ofhis morbid fancy or eccentric charlatanism by
their right names! Indeed, if to believe implicitly in the developed
power contained in a: sugar-pellet not larger than a hempseed, and
moistened with tlte decillionth dilution ofcommon table salt, that
is, with the
1
1000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000tb
part of one grain, and even that this power is communicated to the
surrounding atmosphere so as to be imparted to the human body by
m&l:Uini, if that, we say, does not imply supernatural powers, then
all our conceptions of this and similar expressions are wrong and
have no meaning. The conceits of Eudremons nnd Kakodmmone
of the oldest mythologists; the theurgy and demonology of the most
superstitious heathens; the most fanciful religious notions of J;llany
East Indians, their Dews, Am 'hadpans, lzeds, Fervers, &e. ; what
are all these compared with Hahoemaun's· virtues developed from
one grain of a simple drug," developed by art and not by reason of
cc the original matter," (Conci8e View, puge 14.) developed ad infini-
tum at his pleasure with different degrees of power from all
natural substances by his homreopathic manipulatiotM!-powers
acting not only with volition, but with the nwst judicious medical
reflection, since they either suspend their action, when it appears to
them better to do eo; for instance, always after their work is
finished in healthy persons, or operate in diseased individuals for
tDeeks, and never injure if they do no benefit, though all their
operations are always absolute and unconditional, and therefore
also omnipotent within the limits of human life, "so that if their
"dose was large enouglt, each living human organism must at
26
Digitized by Google
•
202
"an.y time a.nd a.U e»ent& become affected or even infected by the
''drug-disease.""
*See Organon, 4th edition, ~2'7 and ,Materi~ Medica, Vol. IJ., page 20. }t i.
worth remarking, that here Hahnemann eaya, " t~ the dose wae lirrge trU~~£gh ; b~t
that in hia Chronic Dieeaees, Vol. I. p. 209, and m other places, he says, that btl
foUowera may giYe •till rtlllll/.er do.u than he advisee, since it ia impossible to select
too small a dose.-It may be conjectured with some probability, that Hahnemann'•
doctrine of denloped virtuw origina~ with him in the be!i.f of a~-of ~·
eince on an attentive perusal of aU bte works we tb.U find some dietmct indicabona
of it, (&ee Organon, 4th edition, note to ~203 ~entioned abov_
e, where be appeare to
beli81'e in witchcraft.) Nearly the eame conce1te and expreeatone uaed by him, occ~r
in the explanatione of old authors about eueh euperatitiona. Macrobius in b~
Saturnalia, lib. 1. cap. ts. quotee from the worlte of Poaidoniue of Apamea. (a ~tc
philosopher and astrologer, who ae ia aaid wae the teacher of Cicero,) enbtled
"tl'lfl I"~ lCCXI O!Uf'OYWV" the following etymological e:rplanation of the term de-
monology, "quia ex etherea eubatantia parta. atque dima qualitae illie est." Morna
in mytteriia ptetatia, p. 118, think& tliat the Greek name ofDtZfllllfl atises from "Oat&IV"
that is, " to dimde,"-the homa10pathic diMmu in optima forma. Should the future
confirm what some believe, viz. that Habnemann baa acted honestly, at leaat in
regard to his publication• about boma10patbia and hia itch-doctrine, and bae published
only what he himself really beliP.ved to be true, we may account for hia singular pro-
pensity to myaticiam, magic, demonology, &c., by hia hereditary family-disposition, if
we are not miatak11n in presuming that he ia.a deacendant from Job. Ludovicus Han-
nemann, a famoue theologiat and physician of the 17th century, and professor of
natural philosophy at the Dani•h Untnraity of Kiel, in Holaatia. He was the author
of many singular works on .Alchemy, and on similar m)"'tical topics, regarding lhe
diacovery of the philosopher'• atone for longevity, &c., among others of Aurora
oriena; Xyatua in hortum heaperidum; Tubalkain atantem ad fomacem; De analor
Urim et Thumim in mente humana; Circtllum philoaophie adept. cum Theologta,
et comparationem myateriorum Theologie cum lapidia philoaophorum, arcano magia-
terio; De aureia pomi• in nae argentes; Methodus nova et accumte cogu01cendi
nfllplicia t~egetahilia ; the latter contains a new and accurate method of recog-
nising nmple plaw, and .appears ~o. be eimil~r to our Samu~l. ~nemann's first
latin work on homreopathta, "de Vmbua medtcamentorum posttms." As we hue
not Job. Ludov. Hannemaun'a work last mentioned, but hne ouly collected theae
)6Wnry notices from Joecher's Gelehrten Le:ricon, 1760, we leave it for othen poe-
llel8ing thia literary curiosity to investigate th11 correctness of owr presumption, and
also to ucertain whether or not, the ll&llle Job. Ludv. Hannemann disputes with ua
the priority of our important proposal about the cheap homreopathical whitewaehing of
negr01 as mentioned above, by his treatises entitled " Dealbatio ..Ethiopia et Scm·
tinium nigredinia poaterorum Cham sive ..Ethiopum." These researches would be
highly important, not only in regard to the literary pedigree of " one of the greatest
medical geniuaaea of our age," but alao in a paychological respect.-Fortes creantur
fortibua et bonia, &c.
To the difference in spelling both names none can object, who knows that tbia wu
not unusual in old times ; thua for instance the original name of the great reformer,
Melanchton, waa a Greek translation from the German, Schwarzerd, (Blackearth) and
that of hia kinsman and his noble and ~allant companion in the combat for truth, Johann
Reuehlin, waa Capnio, (Smokeman.) At an age when only few were well educated,
and few only knew how to write, it was very easy for the 11 to be accidentally changed
into an h, and much more eo, lUI in upper SRJ:ony the short syllables are genenlly
pronounced long. This change may also haTe been the consequence of the death of
Job. Lud. Hannemann's son, who had been killed in a duel in the year 1679, after he
likewise had published aome mystical works, for instance, De aulicorom et Martis
filiorum arcanis; De medicorum diYinitate; both quite in the style of our Samuel'a
medical omnipotence and hia predilection for arcana ; it m11.y be that after this fatal
event the family migrated from Holaatia to Upper Saxony, the native country of
Hahnemann, aa we also find in Adelung'a supplement to Joecher's work, above
mentioned, a poet born in Leipzig, who had changed hia family name Hannemaan into
Alectorauder or Cockman, the Greek translation of the German Hahnema.un.-1& ia
also nry singular, that enctly a hundred years before Samuel Hahnemann published
\he tint outlines of hia doctrine, (1795) a Hannemann wrote a treatise "~~t~ tM ifllaeri-.
ffiMe of lv.fUU!J," (aee Miac. Acad. Nat. cur. Dec. 3, An. 3, 1696.) Thit treatise i._
Digitized b; GoogIe
'
•
203
Any further diecussion would be unnecessary and useless for thoet!
who implicitly believe in hommopathia or Hahnemannism, even
at the risk of being guilty of the grossest credulity and superstition;
by trusting in such infinitely developed powers or miracles. Their
dimmed reason will always dwell on facts, which apparently eon-
firm every chimera offered to their defective judgment and to their
perverse imagination; utterly unmindful whether these accord with
the first fundamental laws of the human understanding and with
the acknowledged laws of nature or not, they will shtJn aU closer
investigation of which they are incapable; and will even attribute
facts, which are opposed to their narrow conceits and superstitious
credulity, rather to mistakes and to the ignorance of their oppi:lserlt1
to some unknown and unavoidable counteracting accident~t, or to
the only old truth, which even homreopathists modestly admit, that
deat.lt is beyond the reach of all human p<)wer. "Ad quamcunque
" disciplinam velut tempestate delati, ad earn, tamque ad saxunt
"adhrereseunt."-Cicero.
But there are undoubtedly among the adherents of Hnhnernan..
nism many-who are zealously anxious for truth, and, conscious of
all the requisites of their arduous vocation, are willing to atquire
them wherever they can be attained ; knowing that many pheno-
mena in nature, and especiallyin the life oforganized bodies; cannot
be explained by, or referred to, universal lawson acceuntofour li-
mited means ; and dissatisfied with the frequent ehangee of the 1!10
called systems of practical medicine, with the many contradictory
statementsin objects of daily occurrence, by physicians equally en-
gaged in extensive practice in one and the same country, and even
city &c., they believe themselves entitled or even forced to adopt the
statements of homreopathia as facts. under the impression that the
theoretical explanation of these facts, which are confirmed by tests,
trustworthy in their eyes, might belong to those of similar extraor·
dinary phenomena in organized life, which are likewise not accor-
dant to, or explainable by, the present state of natural philosophy
and physiology, and that homreopathia is at,least not more unsafe
than all other modes of medical practice.
eonaidered very able and intereeting; espeeially if we coneider that, at that time, euch
eubjectewere but little noticed; probably he wasconscious of hie hereditalydiepoaition
~nd had merely deecribed his own etate during ite lucid intervale ; eo, to01 we pol8eal
tn t.he modern literature of Germany an interesaing treatiee on inaoxication, written
by a distinguished philosopher end author, who wae very intelnpeilte. Be thie as it
tDay, we ~e ~tiDed in havin~ t~us .perha,_ contribut~ eolne. valuabl~ mawriala
for the mmute biography of 10 dJstmguJehed 11. man, of whtch he biDlaelf bJthetto m&'
'"'e be-, entirely ignorant.
Digitized by Google
204
There are many suggestions in Hahoemaon's works and in trea-
liees published in hi~ defence, which dazzle the eyesof many, who
are easily prepOBSesSed by superficial and sophistical reasoning and
by tbe novelty of the homO'opathic doctrine, nol aware, from their
want of a cloee scrutiny, of its proper meaning, nor of the grossest
superstition which it involves. We mayjustly hope that ifsuch men
become only more minutely acquainted with the ert.ent and the
tendency of the honuropathic tloctrioe, and if it be only clearly
proved to them that Hahoemann did not use the expressions, "mi-
" rtM:les," " •Drmderful," " a glorified state," " a new creation,"'
metaphorically or hyperbolically, but that his doctrine admits no
other explanations than those intimately connected with the said
expressions, they would investigate these objects closely, and
ashamed of their euperstition, they would examine more minutely
· all the condition~ indispensable for facts, whenever truth is to be
established by them; thus prepared, they would agree with us,
either that the substance of this <!octrine must be rejected and
abandoned, or that life' and health will be exposed more than e¥er
to the .vorst conscque'l<;es of the rudest medical empiricism, result-
' iAg in addi~;on from an implicit belief in the action of supernatural
powe;·s. merely oe~ndent upon the will of man, or on medical
witche:-aft. We feel therefore particularly bound to examine care-
fully the m08t p~·ominent assertions of Hahnemann in regard to
his third maxim of homreopathia; which is, that it is impoesible
to give too small a dose of any drug, provided that it is .selected
according to his ma~im, similia similibus curantur, or to his itch·
theo:-y, and has been developed or potenzised by the proper mani-
pulations.
As long as Hahnemann candidly confessed, that in referring
only to the truth of his experiments, he was unable or unwilling to
~~plain them by any acknowledged law of nature, we could onJy
examine whether we can place confidence in his statements, as
being instituted with due precaution against palpable mistakes,
though they always would lead to a rude empiricism. But if, un·
able to depend positively on the acknowledged laws of nature, he
refers only negatively to ;:hem, and asserts,thathis maxim is founded
on phenomena similar to others, which must be admitted, th~ugh
they have hitherto remained unexplained, or have been supported
only by untenable hypotheses : he then challeng~s his opposers to
examine closely,whether this pretended negatiYe similarity between
his established hypothesiF and those of the other natural pheno-
Digitized by Google
205
mena mentioned, ·be correct. Should it be found so, or should
the operations of his virtues developed from drugs really belong to
tbe same· class with those phenomena, the true causes of which
we must admit to be merely hypothetical, then we must farther
esamine, whether they cannot be explained consistently with hu-
man reason, or whether tbeir belief involves implicit faith in su-
pematuraJ powers, miracles, or witchcraft.
We know only two classes of natural powers-the vital powers
of all living organized bodies, and the universal physical powers.
The former we divide again into psychical or mental, and dyna-
mical or those which refer to physical life ; and the latter into me-
chanical and chemical powers. There are, therefore, four distinct
manifestations of powers to be compared.
We leave out of the question all psychi(:al or mental powers,
implying, as the least of their characteristics, volition, either in-
stinctive or intellectual ; as we suppose that the candid homrepa-
thists are willing unconditionally to reject all supernatural powers,
miracles, spirits, etc. to which the adoption ofany psychical power,
developed by homreopathic manipulations, must unavoidably
lead.
Dynamic:U powers- are only the attributes oforganized life, and
cannot therefore be developed by man from substances destitute
of~rganization and life, as earths, salts, metals, etc. from which •
Habnemann· pretends to develope immense virtues or po.wers.-
The similarity with the vital powers of the human body would
contradict, according to our numerous quotations from Hahoe-
mann's works, his explicit opinion about them ; since he repeat-
edly asserts, that his developed drug-virtues operate far more
powerfutly than the human vital powers do. According to his
repeated assertions, that his developed drug-virtues always act ab-
solutely and unconditionally, they are indeed omnipotent within
the limits of life, and by far paramount to the human vital powers,
which operate, in his opinion, " always in a miserable, automati-
eal manner," and are capable only of extinguishing, in diseases,
the remnants, always left to them by the surplus operations of his
drug-virtues. No dynamical power operates absolutely and un-
conditionally, not even that which acts most independently, viz., .
progenitiveness in ngetable or in animal life. It must also not·
only appear extremely absurd, that a dynamical power developed
from any substance·should act in the inver~e ratio of its weight,
Digitized by Google
•
but that IUCh a power should become developed from dint, char•
coal, sulphur, etc. by such processes as evidently belong to the
most effectual ones ofdestroying aJI dynamical power, even in all
bodies endowed with life. Common sense must consider tritura-
tion and solution as the best modes of destroying life, where it ex-
ists, rather titan ofprocreating it. The homc:eopathic drog-virtuea
cannot therefore be compared with the dynamical powers of orga-
nized living bodies.
Neither Hahnemann nor his foJlowers would admit the adoption
of any mechanical power, though he has explained the direct and
indirect treatment in this manner, as we have seen above, where
we have objected to his assertion, that in the indirect treatment the
drugs must always operate obliquely. It would also be very sin-
gular to imagine, that the developed drug-virtues operate by the
same mechanical laws as those by which a lever, a wedge, a plane,
or any similar tool, acts. Moreover, such little planes, wedg~s,
etc. many theusand billions ofwhich are contained in a body not
larger than a hemp-seed, must make the whole tour of the circu-
lation, before they reach the proper place where the imprisoned
itch is to be freed from its long confinement, or before they can
smooth the purpura miliaris, the little wart on .the right cheek,
etc. And this singular conception would also admit that these
marvellous deeds are to be performed by them, not merely as hy
commo,. tools, but as ifthey acted at the same time as cirCU~~&~ptct
andjudicim.u mechanics !-" Qure molitio, qure ferramenta, qui
"vectes, qure machina, qui mioistri tanti operis foerunt ?"-
Cicero.•
The profession has hitherto known of only three instances in
which drugs, when given internaJly, are known to act by their
* The supposition that the Yirtues developed from drugs act mechanically, offers a
favourable opportunity for demonstrating, by an amusing arithmetical calculation, the
huge extent of the nonsense to whi~h hom!BOpathia leads. It is interesting in eo far
as we become, by it, more minutely acquainted with the admirable niceties of homlll-
opaUlic doses, and particularly with the proportion really existing between an atom
of thar higher dilutions and the scarcely imaginable smallest magnitude of other bo-
dies. Thus it is easy to prove, that the ratio between a drug-atom, contained in the
thirtieth dilution-which is, according to the latest precepts of Hahnemann, the beat
to be ued, if, as he explicitly recommends, hie foUowers should not be willing to re-
sort rather to still higher onee--and a mote or a particle ofthe finest dust percep~ible
in a sunbeam, is far greater than the ratio betweenthe latter and the mass of our
tolwle globe; and that therefore, all circumstances being equal, this globe could be
mot~ed by a mote more e!Uily, than the mote itselfby a homa!Opathic atom of the thir-
tieth dilution, or " potenz." ·
We have only to take into account, that a cubic inch ofatmoepherie air weigbe balE
Digitized by Google
207
naec/uJnical operation; metallic mercury, ginn by many ouoces,
in ileus or mac-passion, when arising from. intus-susception of the
intestines ; tin-filings, .in cases of tape-worm ; and Dolichos pru-
riens, (Stizolobium, Pers.) recommended in cases oflumbrici and
ascarides, and recently even in cases of Asiatic cholera : but their
number would be as immense as that of natural substances, if ho-
mc:eopathists admit the mechanical operation of their developed
drug-virtues. Thus the mechanical mode of the action of the ho-
mc:eopathic drug-virtues is likewise put out of the question.
All the hopes of homc:eopathists of assigning to their eudremons
and spirits an honourable place among the powers ofnature, hi-
therto known,. rest therefore on the chemical powers. But in this
also they must feel quite disappointed ; because all experience
teaches, that the chemical properties of any substance are never
changed by any mechanical dimion, or by any dilution with, or
•
a grain, and be permitted to adopt that a aphere of one inch diameter, formed of
motes, is at least twice as heary, or weighs one grain; partly bt>cause the moles are
proved to posse• a considerably greater gnavity than the atmospheric air ; parlly also
becauae the proposition requires the weight of one grain for a cubic sphere, and the
whole calculation becomes more simplified by it. Farther, knowing, by optical expe-
rimente, that the smallest body visible, without artificial aid, cannot be less than the
one thousandth part of one inch, the diameter of a sphere of visible motes can there-
fore not contain more than a thousand of them. The whole sphere of motes weigh-
in~ one grain, and containing one thousand in diameter, will form a sphere which con-
tains 623,600,000 moles. Let us increase this number with 476,600,000, under the
impression that the motes are still lighter and nearer to the weight of atmospheric air,
and also for the convenience of using the power of ten ; the sphere of moles will then
contain 1,000,000,000, or 101 : the weight of one mote will of course he accordingly
I
10,. The whole weight of our globe is nearly equal to one with 25 zeros in pound.,
or to one with 29 zeros in grains ; the thirtieth bomc:eopathic dilution is equal to 8
I
fraction of one divided by one with sixty zeros, or to 10.o These numbers give the
following gAometrical proportion, wber!in the first member is eq_n11l to the homc:eopa-
thic dilution ; the aecond, or the two mtddle members to the weight of one mote, and
. I 1 1
the third is the resulting number, viz. 10so: 1
i)9 = }09: 1041 orone mote,weigh-
1 1
iDg 10, of a grain, and tha thirtieth dilution weighing 1060, would re.quire as the third
Damher of the proposition, ten elevated to the forty-second power : but the pro-
portion between the weight of our globe, expressed by grains, compared with the
l 1 I
weight of a mote, gives the following proportion: lOu: 1 = -;: 047; or
10 10 1
I I
1041 is the thir~ member of tbis proportion. This compared with 106o as the same
third member in the former proportion, gives a number too email in its denominator by
1013 or by one with 13 zeros: juet ten billion•, which our globe would weigh more
in grain~, (about oDe thousand million~ in pounds) to he then in the same proportion
to one mote, as this ie to oDe homc:eopathic 11tom of the thirtieth dilurion.~. e. d.
Digitized by Google
208
MI!J sfll.tion in, a tluid not decomposing the substance. The oxy-
dation of mercury, or of some oth~r metals, by a long trituration,
and other changes produced in substances where caloric is simul-
taneously developed, depend on other causes than on mechanical
division alone, and can have no intluence in this case. It has long
been known that gold, which, unlike most other metals, is not oxy-
dated by hammering, or by other means which considerably dimi-
nish its cohesion, when contemporaneously exposed to the atmos-
pheric air, may be reduced by mechanical power to one millionth
part of a g~metrical line in thickness, and still it retains all ita
characteristic properties so fully, that we have reason to think it
might be made much thinner, without losing them in the least.
The homreopathic maxim, "similia similibus curantur," is fur-
ther opposed to all chemical processes ; since these are based
upon the laws of affinity, resulting from diversity: and wherev~r
•
a chemical process operates, two or more contraria, but not Bimilia,
act upon one another ; and their chemical action upon each other
augments with their increasing diversity. The opposite maxim,
"contraria contrariis curantur," though likewise opposed to ra-
tional medicine, would therefore accord much better than the ho-
mreopathic maxim with the chemical laws of nature, which pre-
side over many, ifnot all vital actions, however essentially changed
·and modified they are by the latter.-The homreopathic 'tritura-
tions are particularly contrary to the old and still acknowledged
law established in chemistry, viz. corpora non agunt nisi tluida;
that is, when two or more substances shall act chemically upoo
one another, une at least must be liquid, or must contain a tluid,
in being crystalized, or a hydrate.
On glancing at Hahnemaun's explanation of his developed
drug-virtues, it is evident that ke rejects their chemical opera-
tions : for had he only asserted that the neutralizing chemical
processes do not go on so unaltered in the living animal body as
they do in substances in the cruCible, it would have been consist-
ent with sound physiology, which does not acknowledge that the
universal chemical laws act, in the living body, precisely in the
same manner as in physical nature. But a principal objection to
this part of the subject is his assertion, that the chemical pro,Per-
ties of his developed drug-virtues are changed before the drugs
ar.e taken. Thus he asserts, that earths, metals, sulphur, etc. etc.
become soluble in alcohol, by homreopathic manipulations ; and
Digitized by Googl~
209
that substances not volatile, as table-salt, silicia, etc. become 10
volatile, or ealil!J efJaportJJJle, that by merely lmdling of them
once, the diseased state is cured, or changed at least for many
weeks, in spite ofall external inJluences ofthe atmosphere, offood,
drink, mental impressions, etc. On the other hand, he considers
his duty potenzised dlugs to be .so far from volatile, however
much they are so in the eyes of all chemists, that, in his opinioa,
his sugar-pellets, moistened with highly potenzised drugs, may be
preserved fur !jeOTI, without losing their properties. Thus he says
thatPhosphorus, after being homreopathicallypoteoused, remains,
without the least precaution, unchanged for years; though every
one acquainted only with the elements of chemistry, even of
former ages, when this science was not yet so over-refined a&
it is in his eyes at present, knows, that Phosphorus is extremely
volatile, and is protected wi.th great difficulty from evaporating
and oxydating, and that nothing promotes both more easily thaa
trituration. Farther he states, that Baryta acquires the property
of being unchanged by acids, (Chr. Dis. vol. ii. p. 33), and tbat
the symptoms observed after the use of pure lime are the same as
those caused by acetate of lime, (ibid, p. s:l). Acetic acid, which
has so great a chemical influence on almost all substances, espe-
cially on most earths, metals, etc. loses, in his opinion, its promi-
nent inftuences upon such substances, after their virtuesare bom<eo-
pathically developed,even when not taken lll:l medicines: so that this
acid is used by him and his followers as an innocent or unmedicinal
fluid, and as a mere menstruum.• This likewise contradicts aU
experience, which teaches that acetic acid,particularly in its con-
centrated state, even when externally applied, quickly destroys
parts of the living animal body; and if taken internally, a,cts
as a violent poison: though, when sufficiently diluted, it becomes
• As usual with Habnemann, we find this aaaertion likewise contradicted by him-
eelf, in his Mater. Med. vol. i. p. 14. ~here he say.s, tb~t the poiso.nous effects ofBel-
ladonna are much increued by the addition of acetic ac1d. Th1s ev1dently prons, that,
eonaidering Belladonna in itself a powerful drug, he must value acetic acid alao, aa a
oery effect'IUJ.l, and not as an indifferent one. Vinegar, and similar vegetable acids,
were always considered, by the physic.i11ns of 1111 sehools, aa the best antidotes against
all kinds of narcotic plants, and espec1ally agamst Belladonna: of course Halmemaun
must assert the contrary, even without any regard to his com111itting the grossest in-
cooai~tency . ~here i~ hard.ly to be found an aut.hor more .careless iu regard to con-
tradictions and mcons1stenc1es, even to those wh1ch are qmte unnl!ct•seary !lnd eas1ly
avoidable. But he knows best what he can offer to his infatuate<! diseiplt•s and ad-
mirers without losing their implicit confidence and humble lefpect ; and for otht>rs,
be ne;er wao able nor intended to write as a dignified medical author, since ht• com.
menced tho career of a quack.
27
Digitized by Google
210
vinegar, which injures only dyspeptic, hysteric persons, ete. In
addition to all these facts, his developed drug-virtues are directly
opposed to the known laws of chemistry, which do not admit an
inverse ratio between the ·weight and power of a substance, but
prove the contrary, especially according tothe acute researches of
Berthollet, in his Statique Chimique, whi~h are found, at least in
that respect, correct.
We have now to compare the action of Hahnemann's developed
drug-virtues with the operation of those agents, termed impmde-
rabilia, which appear to be particularly attractive to him and his
followers.-A man who searches for " great truths," by which he
thinks to benefit mankind so much, might be excused for his gr()SS
ignorance ofthe modern discoveries in natural philosophy and che-
mistry, and for not being aware, that the so termed imponder:a-
bilia are now considered as the most p01J)erful chemical agents
which preiiide over all chemical processes, and that t.he greatest
chemists of the present century have founded the whole system of
chemistry upon the reciprocal electr~hernical relations of sub-
stances considered as elementary ; thus the great chemist Berze-
lius has constructed his chemical theory and classification upon
the electro-chemical phenomena attending the mutual affinity of
bodies, as bases and acids. Hahnemann, however, iii so far behind,
and so ignorant of the progress of chemistry, as not even to know
the difference between muriatic and chloric acid ; (see Mat.
Med. Vol. V. second edition, 1826, p. 98,) but, nevertheless, thh;
brazen-faced charlatan, though a contemporary of Wentzel, La-
voisier, Scheele, Humphrey Davy, J. B. Richter,~-: ventures to
assume a high standing as a chemist, and to ridicule and despise
modern chemistry, as he does all ancient and modern medicine!-
Admitting that his drug-virtues must be considered as similar to the
other imponderable agents, can he or any one else demonstrate by
facts that caloric, light, electricity, magnetism, physical as well as
animal, operate in an inverse ratio to their presumed weight and
bulk, as his developed drug-virtues must do ifthey existed any where
else but in his own morbid fancy 1 Do not all phenomena provejust
tlte contrary? Should light operate in the inverse ratio of its quan-
tity, all animals would see better in direct proportion to the darkness;
plants would best flourish in places precluded from the access of
light, and fade away when exposed to the bright sun-shine, &c.
Should caloric operate in the inverse ratio of its quantity, a sub-
stance might be ignited by a plain glass, or still better, by being
•
Digitized by Google
2ll
placed behind a concave one; we should feel warmest in the
extreme cold of winter, and coldest in the heat of summer,
&c. Electricity depends also on the direct ratio of its de·
veloped quantity, otherwise a smaller surface of glass or rosin
would be better adapted to develope a large quantity of both
~lectricities than a larger one ; none of the many experiments
with the electrometer, the electrical condenser, the Leyden vial,
the electrophor, &c., could be satisfactorily explained. The
same may be said of galvanism if it is to be considered as different
from electricity; the degree of its extensive or intensive powers
depending, either on the largeness of the surface, or on the num-
ber of the plates. In regard to magnetism, a ~-maller piece of the
same magnet would also prove more powerful than a larger one,
or at least from the smallest magnet the strength and extent of
powercould be developed ad infinitum; Schweigger's multiplicator,
Faraday's lateinteresting experiments in confirmation ofOerstedt's
great discovery in producing electricity by magnetism, and many
other experiments, which have advanced natural history and che-
mistry during the presentage more than many centuries did before,
could not be explained, if electricity, galvanism and magnetism
should be presumed to act, similar to the homreopathically deve-
loped drug-virtue, in the inverse ratio of weight and power. We
suppose, that even animal magnetism, though yet little known,
appears to depend in a direct ratio upon bulk, for, if this were not
the case, a person unpleasantly affected by the approach of a cat;.
would either feel so at any distance, or would have lost all sensi-
tiveness of this kind in infancy, by unavoidable and continual
habit. It would also be difficult to explain why generally, strong,
stout nod healthy persons best impart animal magnetism, and why
sometimes they feel so exhausted by it, that instances are recorded,
where healthy and vigorous magnetiseurs, have died suddenly,
immediately after such an over-exertion ; though we do not be-
lieve that animal magnetism will revive a person who has been
for a long time asphyctic, as Hahnemann asserts in his Organon,
4th ed. on § 291.-ln a manner, never before observed by any
·one, Hahnemann also minutely distinguisheu, in the second
volume of his Mat.Med., the different symptoms elicited in healthy
persons by the north and south-pole of a magnet, and refers with
peculiar emphasis and extraordinary sarcasm to the action of mag-
netism generally. As if this agent was properly known by him
only, he asks, on P· 213, among ol.her bombast., to edify his
Digitized by Google
212
~~ebooJ of ignoramuses, " Is not the ccutillionth part of a grain, (a
"fraction with 600 zeros as denominator). still infinitely too heavy
" for the imponderable part, for this kind ofspirit, which has tlown
" from the magnetic stick into the living body 1 and will you feel
"so much struck with amazement, at the homreopathic doses of
"an efficient drug, amounting to one sixtillionth, one.octillionth,
"or one decillionth part of a grain, which are so immensely large'
" when compared with the invisible magnetic power '1"-ln a si-
milar manner he says, on p. 293 of his Organon, (4th ed.) referring
to all the stupid allopathists, " Let mathematicians explain to
" them how true it is, that if a subs\ance be divided into any num-
" her of parts, its smallest particle will always contain something
" ofthis substance, and therefore it can never become a nonentity;
" let them be told by natural philosophers, if they are susceptible
"of instruction, that there are numerous powerful things (called
" potenzes), which are totally without weight, as caloric, light, &c.
"and are, therefore, always infinitely lighter than the contents of
" a drug in ili! homreopathic dose; let them estimate, if they can,
" the weight of an angry word, by which a bilious fever is gene-
" rated, or the weight ofsad tidings from an only son, by which
" his mother is killed."
Those who, from extravagant imagination, narrow reason or
creduloue infatuation, cannot reftect with calmness, are exceedingly
dazzled by this and similar explanations of Hahnemann, and in·
stead of minutely analyzing such common-place instances and tlat
reasonings as they easily could, they become still more fascinated
by the acuteness and depth of intellect, as well as by the immense
wisdom and experience oftheir " great genius."
Hahnemann generally uses a singular kind of paralogism
or a false and deceitful conclusion, when he endeavours to
appeal from his pretended facts to common sense. With but little
attention every one will observe his mode of ratiocination to consist
in this, that, because we cannot explain a certain phenomenon,
therefore not only his statements of a phenomenon, which is either
distaatly or not at all similar to the former, must not only be cre-
dited, but his explanation of it must likewise be true, be it ever so
whimsical and foolish. In the case before us his singular course of
reasoning is this: because we cannot exactly explain in what man-
ner the magnet acts on the livingorganized body, thereforewe must
not only believe the salutary effect of ·his developed drug-virtues,
but also that the manner and cause of their operation are similar
Digitized by Google
213
or identical with those of the magnet,-that is, similar to a manner
which neither he himself nor any other mortal being knows.
Another mode in which he argues, is no less delusive and false, in
being contrary to the true old maxim, " a posse ad es!le non valet
" consequentia," or " because a thing can exist, it does not follow
" that it must exist." More clearly explained, his ratiocination
consists in this, that because the mere.inteUectual or 8Ubjectit?e
condition of the truth of an assertion, or of a deceitful experiment,
might well answer negativfJl'V for its real existence, or because
a phenomenon might be imagined to depend on a cause, the adop-
tion of which is not opposed to the logical laws of the human un-
derstanding (poesibilitas logica): therefore also the phenomenou
itself, and its dependence upon the imaginary and adopted .cause,
must also be positively true, may it be ever 10 much contradicted
either directly by daily experience, or indirectlyby an abstract of
other facts, and may it therefore want all the conditions on which
the objective possibility rests, (possibilitas phrenomenon sive realis.)
Thus, for instance, because it is not absolutely contrary to the lo-
gicallaws ofour understanding tobelieve in mermaids, or centaurs,
it would follow, aeoording to such reasoning, that we cannot doubt
the existence of such beings, whenever something happens which
may be easily explained by them ; or in a nearer relation to the
object before us: because, it is not contrary to the logical laws of
the human understanding, to believe in spirits which might pre-
aide as independent or delegated beings over all the phenomena of
matter, wherever thiH is considered as . united with au imponder-
abile or with any thing else, therefore Hahnemann thinks himself
fully justified in regarding his developed drug-virtues also not only
as imponderabilia, but aleo as transmuted by his manipulations
into epirits.
F. Bacon says very correctly, "Experiments touching trans-
u mission of spirits and the force of imagination, work most. upon
" weak minds and spirits ; for instance, those of sick, superstitious
" and fearful persons, children and young creatures." After the
eimplicity of the earliest ages had passed, when the mere diclues
of sages or impostors could make persons believe every thing tbey
imagined or hoped for, base impostors, or blind ignorant fanatics
·pursued this course, and by pretended facts substituted credulity
and superstition for the true explanations of natural phenomena.
By such means, demonology, magic, alchemy, witchcraft and
eimilar kinds of deception were palmed upon all classes of people
Digitized by GoogIe
214
for many centuries, either by men, who deceived themselves from
want of intelligent reflection or from ignorance ; or by impostors,
who valued 1their low interests higher than the prosperity of their
fellow-men. In eases where the public was not dieposed to believe
them implicitly, they had always some facts at their command, by
which they endeavoured to show the causal similarity or identity
of those facts and their wonderful statements, knowing that the
public cannot generally investigate minutely the true connexion
between similar phenomena. and their widely different causes, nor
ascertain that the deception in regard to the identity of the causes
of two or more &imilar phenomena, frequently arises merely from
the contemp01·aneous action of the former.
Yet the old Greek and Roman philosophers thought that matter
can never be reduced to nothing : Anaxagoras, for instanceJ ac-
knowledged very distinctly the infinite divisibility of matter, by
his ofi-Oip.EgetaJ. Lucretius says in many places the same, e. g. on
lib. i. v. 249,
" Haud igitur•redit ad Nihilum ree ulla sed omnee,
" Diecidio redeunt in corpora materiai."
And F. Bacon says exactly the same in his Organon: ''Nulla
" violentia, nulla denique retas aut diuturnitas temporis potest re·
"digere aliquam vel minimam portionem materire in nihilum,
" quin et sit aliquid et loci aliquid occupet." If every one must
admit that any small quantity of a substance, soluble in water,
' alcohol, &e.or miscible with other substances by trituration in any
large and disproportionate quantity, will never become absolutely
nothing, but always remain something, especially ifthe substances
in question do not operate chemically upon each other; does it
follow therefrom that the effects of these substances on the human
body, in any imaginable small quantity, must not only be per·
ceptible, hilt still greater than when used in quantities many
million times larger, because they have become transmuted into an
imponderabile, different from any other one hitherto known, and
thlefore also from other fancied homreopathic imponderabilia:
developed in a similar manner from other simple drugs1 'fhe in-
finite divisibility of matter is so intimately connected with our ab-
stract ideas, that without its adoption, our conceptioas in regard to
the existence of bodies of all shapes and sizes appear to be vague,
and would force us to admit the still more unmeaning conception
of a vacuum, though the atomistica1 theOry of modern chemistry
Digitized by Google
215
explains with much acuteness the existence of primitive atoms.
Admitting, therefore, with Hahnemann, that the smallest imagin-
able fraction of a substance must always be something of it, his
other assertion involves itself the grossest petitio principii, and gives
rise to the simple question, why this, his proposition, should not be
directly applicable io the smallest particle itself, without any fur·
ther developement ; or by what reason or experiment can he prove
that the·matter, which he himself declares indestructible, becomes
nevertheless, by its developement, extinct as matter, and is trans-
muted into a spirit, a thought, &c., in short, intosomething which
is not matter 1 Ha~nemann's adoption of spirits, into which all
matter becomes changed, palpably contradicts not only his assertion
about the continuance of matter, but the latter offers the most con-
clusive argument against the adoption of the former. Should his
virtues developed from drugs be, as he pretends, identical with
the substances or agents hitherto known and called tmpondera-
bilia, then he must either admit that the principal characteristic
of matter, viz. absolute ponderability, has.ceased to be its essential
attribute, or that the same thing can be material and immaterial;
and also it would appear unnecessary tO recommend the tiresome
development of these imponderabilia from the different drugs; as
tbe.y are made ready at hand for us, and are unquestionably more
free from all matter than if formed by repeated triturations, di-
lutions, and shaking of drugs, &c.-Since Professor Oerstedt's dis-
covery of the identity of electricity and magnetism, we know of
only three agents called imponderabilia, viz. light, caloric and elec-
tricity. We should, therefore, have only to select from these three,
one, or, (if we wished to nse, contrary to Hahnemann's prescrip-
tions, more than one at a time), two or three for the experiments
on healthy and the cure of diseased persons, without resorting to
one of the same imponderabilia, developed by a troublesome pro-
cess from other substances. Could any sound conclusion be
drawn from Hahnemann's contradictory assertions, we could be-
lieve his meaning to be, that his developed drug-virtues act simi-
larly to one of the known imponderabilia, since he considers, (at
the end of his Organon, and in his Mat. Med. Vol. II.) physical as
well as animal magnetism, as specific remedies, and highly recom-
mends them as adjuvants to his other drugs if they fail to ope-
rate, notwithstanding their almost unconditional action. If Hahne.
mann does not consider his developed drug-virtues as operating
Digit,zed by Google
216
precisely like one of the known im1l0nderabilia, but as different
specific ones, sim·i.lar only, but in regard to their imponderability,
not identical, then he has not merely enriched the medical pro-
fession with many millions of new salutary powers, but also na-
tural philosophy with as many imponderabilia as ~here are sub-
stances, because, as we have seen, drug-virtueS may be developed
from all natural substan~.-Indeed ! it is strange that no phi-
losopher, in fact, that no man, except Hahnemaon, has hitherto dis-
covered any one of this immense number of imponderabilia. As
every great agent of that kind bas only an influence on the living
body, in so far as it corresponds more or less to its general operation
in nature, it would be very singular if the homc:eopatbic impon-
derabilia alone, should act exclusively on the human body, and did
not manifest their existence by some other natural phenomena.
The considerations: that the knowledge ofthe lawa of nature is now
much advanced, the principles of natural science simplified, since
agents hitherto regarded as different, are now proved to be iden-
tical; farther, that Hahnemann manufactures at once millions
of imponderable agents, which he is unable to explain, except
but by a comparatively few, most uncertain and delusive experi-
ments on healthy and diseased persons, which are also observed
only by him and his adherents,-we say these considerations
alone should shake all confidence in his doctrine in the eyes of
every impartial judge.
If, as we might suppose from the paragraph quoted above, Hah-
oemann distinctly considers his potenzised drug as similar to a kind
of idea, a thought, or a passion ; then we see no propriety in pre-
~ribing for patients, either impondernbilia bomreopathically de-
veloped from drugs, or those evolved by an electrical machine; a
magnet, &c. since then a psychical treatment only would be suf-
ficient ; thus in a bilious fever we could best succeed by prescrib-
ing a homreopatbic dose of anger; in dropsy, apoplexy, especially
if arising from want of food or fi·om other great distress, we could
recommend only a homreopathic dose of sorrow and affliction; in
erotomania, a homreopathic dose of love; and the itch, this very
pandremon of all chronic diseases, wo~ld likewise be best _
curPrl by
some ofthose passions, which must be considered as the IJcst an-
tipsorics, for the reasons above mentioned.
Those who become acquainted with homreopnthia and Hah-
nemannism by some of its votaries, are quite inadvertent to the
Digitized by Google
~17
magnitude.ofnumbers, with which this doctrine abounds, and are so
much startled by its vague couceptions, that, coi1sidering the im-
mense divisibility of matter, and the influence of the finest par-
ticles of many substances upon our senses, they become satisfied
by a summary decillion in regard to the similar action of agents
called imponderabilia, and· also to those phenomena which depend
on the great divisibility of matter itself.
We are far from referring all phenomena in universal nature,
and much less in organized living bodies, to the action of palpable
matter. We are also quite ignorant wherein any power really
exists, and know only how to distinguish generally in the living
body, that which excites its reaction, from the reaction itself. All
vital reaction is te~;med dynamical, in order to di~.-~tinguish it from
the physical and chemical powers, though they always appear, if
not to depend upon, at least to be connected withj" and modified by
matter, which must be considered as their common be.arer, since
all l.he physical and chemical powers of nature reside in matter.
This intimate connexion between power and matter frustrated
the deepest and acutest metaphysical researches of the greatest
philosophers, and will never be satisfactorily explained by any
mortal being, because all matter appears to our extemal senses as
finite, while infinity is the ideal abstract of power: and we cannot
imagine that any power can cease to act otherwise than by imother
counteracting one, where of course the seeming passivity consists
likewise in a counteraction. Matter and power, or thesubstance and
the accident of metaphysicians, appear therefore to us widely differ-
ent, and in our finite existence we are more able indistiuctly to
imagine, than clearly to CO'Iiceive, how one can result from, or be
combined with the other. Our notion of the infinite is, when
properly analyzed, only negative, or opposite to finite; and we
should think, that if we could ever acquire an exact positive and
minute insight into the infinite, the impenetrable mystery with
which Providence has veiled from us l.he existence of all things
and of ourselves would disappear.* II. may be therefore ouly par-
" The fact that man can imagine and still more comprehend, a• least indirectly,
what infinity is, and can use formui:B of iu~oite magnitudes for minute an~ correct
calculations, may prove thRt the human nund or whatever name we nught g1ve to the
cause of the human understanding, belongs to another world, since it aJopears in.
consistent lo think, that an infinite property can depend UJlOn a finite sull•tancc. We
cannot pursue any farther these researches, which embrace the nu>ot ~ulltile anti-
theses of the human mind; but in opposition to H.thnemann's frantic Oj>iniott aOOu\
the infinite powet in hi& drugs and the limited powers of the vital function.,, the pr\n.
ciple of life iteelf appear• to the philosopher infinite in all orgllnizud bodie¥ ; ~<lid \o
28
~igitized by Google
218
donable in men like Hahnemann and his followers, to use the
expressions of infinite in a positive sense, when they wish to ex-
plain the great divisibility of matter. If for instance, one grain of
musk fills a large hall, so as to be recognized by our senae of smell
in every point of that hall, without losing any perceptible part of its
weight after months or years ; what else does this prove, than the
great divisibility of this substance, and that the sphere of perception
of our olfactory nerves is greater than that of our optic and other
nerves 1 Doesit follow therefrom, that the matter of musk becomes
transmuted into an infinite spirit, or must be considered as a more
powerful drug than a hundred others not so spontaneously divisible
and volatile, much more than opium, arsenic, &e. Does it
follow therefrom, that wherever musk is applicable as a remedy,
we must abstain from giving it in the usual allopathicdose of from
two to twenty grains, but that it would be sufficient to let the
patient enter every four or six weeks a large ball, and breathe for
a moment its atmosphere, pregnant with the self-developed virtue of
one grain 1 Perhaps homreopatbists will consider this useless, be-
cause miserable nature only, and not their duly eonseerated banda
have developed the infinite virtue of musk !* The thick fibres of
preside in the same manner over the life ,of the largest whale ae over the infueory
msect ; in a Laplace, Cuvier and Kant, ae well as in the greateat idiot ; the e-e
appears to be the same, but ita manifestation in every individnal depends upon the
individual organizatioo,-may this manifestation consist only in automatically obsen-
ing external objecta or in the self-conaciousuess of a higher origin and destination.
To think any power developed by man from unorganized dead substances, equal or
even paramount to the vital powers, ie therefore the 'greatest madneu which can be
imagined.-" Pour ne ptU tomller dan8 une erreur grafle, ne perdulu ptu IU we, 'I'"
Dieu, etre infini, Se fNI/nifute a1liNI etrefinu, par Ufini. IJam Cette manifestatll!lt,
il ut senti par cA4cun et par tou, aussi bien un que multiple. DieK ut tout, mais
W0168 4fi01J6 notre e:r.Utmce popre. Ce n'estgu'alo.ccmditicm IU tenir ctlfftpte alo. foil de
l'unite et de 14 multiplictte, que n~N~ PIJUflcnt8 ccmcilier lu interets generauz aw;
lu interet• particuliers, lo. morale publique a"" lo. morale priflee; c'ut par U sev.letn.ent
que n~N~Sercms parfaitement religieuz."-(St. Simon.)
"' Hahnemann in his Materia Medica (Vol. 1: par. 316) prescribes only the decil-
liontb dilution of musk, and recommends it espec1aUy against hypochondria. It is
difficult to combine this his advice with another remark on the same page, alluding
to a -very uncomfortable after-operation of musk, which would not well suit .the people
of "Egypt, the land of monsters;" and of all other countries where seragbos IIJ:8
kept. On account of this fiery prejudicial after-operation of musk, it might be ad-
visable for authors on Materia Medica to expunge this article from the apparatDI
medicaminum, and for the druggists not to speculate in it ; since, besides that one
bag of musk will be sufficient for all Europe and America for centuries, the use of
musk will be proscribed in all the oriental countries, ae soon as the "great truth with
all ita bleuings" ia known there. We might suppose with propriety, that all the
govem:nente which have particular reaaon to promote the rapid increase ef popula-
tion, and especially tlie governments of North and South America, will soon prohibit
the importation of such a destructive article.-,-ln this manner we evidently see the
true charcter of this "gigantic work," since the most tyrannical and the most repub-
lican governments are alike highly interested in attentively listeningtoand applyingth~'>
Digitized by Google
219
a small piece of meat are divisible inlo thOBe which are t10 small as
to be imperceptible by the best microscope ; does it follow from this,
that the decoction of such a microscopic fibre will afford the patient
as much, or even more nourishment, after a homreopathic mani-
pulation of this "natural substance/' than a strong broth, made
allopathieally from some pounds of meat, because a nutritious im-
ponderable virtue or spirit has been developed by the homc:eopathic
division 1
We are by no means justified in asserting the ab&olute imponder-
abilityof the socalled imponderabilia. Light is curved and redected
by certain bodies under certain angles, and under other circum-
stances. Caloric distends bodies, if imparted to them in a larger
quantity than their specific capacity for it can sustain. Electricity
acts by its transition from one body to another, and by its distribu-
tion over the surface of bodies, in many respects like other ponder-
able duids. These facts, among many others, prove therefore, that
the imponderabilia, as they are termed, fill up a certain 'space,
which they relinquish by force, that their motion from one place
to another requires a certain time, and that they must therefore be
considered at least as dependent on, or connected with matter, per-
haps with more propriety as matter itself. Probably they are all
ponderable, though by their nature, either the general laws of
gravity are altered and modified by the bodies on 'which they act,
particularly because their action is prominently a chemical one, (in
which generally the laws of gravity, as all the other mechanical
laws of nature, are more or leiS suspended ;) or our scales are, and
probably ever will be too imperfect to weigh them.•
"great truth."-The old philosopher, to whom the after-operation ofmaek ualluded
to, might have become by the while indifferent,
"Nee tenet, omnia paullatim tabeacere et ire
"Ad acopulum, spatio etatil defesea vetusto."-lMcr.
will pardon us, when we think it a little overhasty torecommend it against hypochon-
dria; since, however beneficial its first-operatioR may be for euch nnfortunate penone,
we are exceedingly anxious concerning its after-operation, as we are taught by·him
and Dr. Hering, (on page 14, Concise View,) that" medicines do not becomellllatary
"bl their direct effecta," &c.; "but they are salutary by reason of their after-opera-
" t1on." In this case homreopathilts will have some particular difficulty tomake both
ende meet, viz: tbe salutary after-operation and tbe promotion of "domestic felicity,"
both so inseparable from all the other ble88inge of homreopathia (see Conc:iee View,
page 29.)
• The best scales ever made 1ue those ofthe celebrated Fortin at Paris, being with
a weight of four pounds, sensible to the fiftieth •part of a grain, which ie equal to
rnhw• of the weight, and those o( Florenz at Vienna, with a weight of4l poanct.,
ere ~elllible to nrlTn of the same. According to our calculations made above,
the 11bsolute weight of a sphere containing many thouaand~ of motes, would ho~ever
not be determinable by these and much finer ~lea, and th11 sphere w~uld seemlDgly
eppear to us ilaJI"derable, though nobody wdl deny that a mote, obey10g the laws of
Digitized by Google
On closer refteelion, every person of ~ommon sense wtll consider
Hahnemann't~ expression, "let a l'IUbstance be divided into any
" number of parts, its smallest imaginable part will still contain
"something of this substance, and can therefore never become a
nonentity," as nothing else than what every one knows, viz. that
a pound of a substance consistsof so many ounces, drachms, grains,
and as many smallest fractions of a grain, as we are pleased to
imagine ; or also that every power must be considered as a com-
pound ofas many small momenta, as we are willing to make by
a division which can be likewi~~e continued ad infinitum. We
know by experience, that this expression and similar common-
place explanations of Hahnernann are considered by his followers
as the greatest wisdom ever uttered by a philosopher; and that
principally for these reasons, considered by them incontrovertible
proofs of his doctrine, they cannot be made sensible of the absur-
dity, contained in his advice to prescribe only the smallest doses
of homreopathic drugs. We see that this t~ird maxim of homceo-
pathia is yet in itself much more absurd than the two former; the
great~t nonsense contained in it is, however, that the si~gle part of
gravity by ita falling to the ground in a calm, is a ponderable matter, and would weigh
upwards of a thousand millionth part of one grain, if we were po-•ed of aucb deli-
cate acales.-h would abnoat appear that Hahnemann baa already invented much
finer scales for his chirornantical experiments; it is however very singubtr and is a part
ofthe high wisdom, only intelligible to homalOpathists, that, aa we have seen him nlue
cmetly the weight of the fluid which paues from the magnet, "at one cmtilliontA. pa.rt
of11 grain"-a trifle only equal to one divided by one with n:r laundrtd zeros,-he,
with this minute knowledge of the real tDeigA.t of the magnetic matter, nevertheless
asserts it to be imponderable. We wish that Dr. Hering, or another intimate dis-
ciple of Habnemann, would be pleased to soh•e also this great enipa, how anything
can be weighed up to one eentilliontb part of one grain, and yet be Imponderable! and
to enrich the world with the'construction ofsuch marvelous scales, the greatadvantages
of which are so obvious. The opinion, that a magnetic fluid paaaea from the magnet
to the steel, and imparts the magnetic lluid to the latter, ia erroneous; though often
emphatically expre•ed by bomreopatbists in support of their doctrine. The two.
opposite magnettc powers or fluids are already slumbering in the steel, previous to ita
coming in any relation to the magnet, and this equilibrium of the twe fluids being
disturbed by the approach of one pole of a magnet to the smallest point of the steel,
extends quickly to the whole mass of.the latter in such a manner, that in its smalleet
sections, the homogeneous fluid is repelled and the heterogeneous fluid attracted, until
by these mutual attractionsand repulsiong, both endsof the steel show respectively the
north and the south poles ; resembling in that respect the electricity of the largest
conductor, in which from the beginning of the developement by the machine, plus
electricity immediately collects at one end, and minus electricity at the other. This
explanation of magnetism communicated to a piece of steel, is corroborated by the
facts, that the steel which, when in connexion with the magnet, shows all the proper-
ties of the latter, Iosee again these peculiarities immediately on being disengaged
from the magnet; farther, that the ateel may be magnetized without the aid ofa magnet,
by being hammered, turned, exposed to the violet light of the sunbeams, by being
heated red bot and suddenly cooled in cold water, in a perpendieular direction, &e.
Magnetism is therefore in every respect not a suitable subject for homceopathists to
explain the operations of their drug·virtues, and they, in reforming medicine, bP.ttN
insist upon their implicit belief in magic and witchcraft than to ref•rm in thi~ manner
natural philosophy also. '
Digitized by Google
221
'il. whole is greater than the whole iU!elf, and that, notwithstanding,
the infinite nature ofthe drug-virtuesbegins to become developed
at the eighteenth dilution, and reaches its beneficial degree gener-
ally at the thirtieth; though according to his last suggestien, (see
Chron. Diseases, Vol. I., page 209,) much higher dilutions should
be used, asno dilution whatevercan be considered too small; a direc-
tion which still more demonstrates that he thinks the smallest part
of any thing is not merely something, but more than its larger part.
It orust also be difficult for any man of common sense to conceive,
how an infinite being can ever arise from a finite one, and much
less that an infinite being should be finite only on one side ;-which
·would be the grossest contradictio in adjecto, provided this great
philrisopher would not assert, that his potenzised or developed drug-
virtues are to be considered similar to the two branches ofa parabole
or the four branches of an hyperbole with their asymptotes-which,
according to the doctrine of conic sections, are finite on one and
infinite on the other side. 1
Even all these extravagant fancies admitted ; what reason can
Hahnemann assign for still continuing to recommend for some
of his drugs, the third, sixth, &c. dilution, all of which are so
many billion times inferior to the eighteenth, at which point he
asserts all homreopathic virtues begin to be developed 1 The
experiment has not yet been made to our knowledge, and Hahne-
mnnn wisely says nothing about it; but we would seriously ask him
and his followers, whether, if all the remnants of the homreopathic.
dilutions of arsenic, sulphur, calcarea, &c., from the eighteenth up
to the thirtieth degree of development should be collected, they
verily believe, that these, together with the· dilutions made pre-
viously to the eighteenth, would not contain the original grain 1
or if he himself, Dr; Hering, or any one of his faithful adherents,
would confidently swallow the remnants of different homreo~hic
developments, for instance of arsenic, under the impression that
the arsenic has become transmuted intoan infinite spirit, an infinite
being, an imponderable, &c., which "no longer possess those long
" continued effects of a prejudicial character, which we have so
"frequently to witness from the crude articles."-(See Dr. Hering's
Concise View, page 14.) We believe that chemical analysis will
certainly find in a sufficient quantity of such remnants, the sub-
stance from which the homreopathic virtue was developed ; but
then we may justly ask, 'by what kind of a new miracle these
Digitized by Google
222
virtues, spirits, infinite beings, imponderables, thoughts or passions,
have been transmuted back again, and per syntbesin into the
substantialfinite grains of arsenic, sulphur, &c.
It is indeed very ridiculous for Hahnemann to refer to the exacti- ·
tude of mathematicians, as we have seen above. If be had ever
possessed the slightest conception of the elements of this science,
which be recommends to b~ followers as the best means for close
thinking, he would have known the proper meaning of mathe-
matical infinity in irrational numbers, in the series of converging
fractions, &e.; be would have been aware, that in every problem
into which such infinite magnitudes enter, or from which a ratio
of the finite to the infinite part results, the mathematician can
take so much of the latter as the minute exactness of the problem
and its solution require, leaving the remaining infinite part un-
noticed as nullity, or as a magnitude which bas absolutely disap-
peared, in respect to the finite magnitude required for the object in
view. Every well educated pupil of a good classic school, knows
that the ratio of the diameter to the circumference of a circle, or
that any even root of numbers not divisible by four, is irrational ;
but still the square contents of the surface of a circle or the cubic
contents of a sphere, if ever so large or small, may be calculated
with the greatest requisite exactness, though the infinite part of
the ratio is neglected as a nullity. The astronomer loses relatively
nothing by disregarding the infinite part of magnitudes, after be
bas used them according to the rules of the differential and integral
calculus, by which be is even taught to consider them at least as
disappearing; but he uses frequently the signs for the infinitely large
and the infinitely small with the same facility as f!e uses all signs
offinite magnitudes; his solution ofa problem, generally embracing,
what people not enlightened by bomreopatbia, formerly used to call
immense magnitudes, proves so perfectly correct, that he can cal·
culate the heavenly phenomena for centuries to come, as well as
for the next hOur. If mathematicians and astronomers bad always
thought it necessary to pursue another way, agreeable to Hahne·
mann's wbim~:~ical suggestions, that. the most infinite part must
always be minutely noticed; all ages which have past, and aU
those which are to come, would be insufficient to solve one problem;
not one of the immense multitude of interesting and indispensable
calculations could ever have been finished, and natural philo-
sophy, astronomy, &c., would have rem.ained, and still remain in
Digitized by Google
223
their infancy. No astronomer has, to our knowledge, as yet been
obliged minutely to consider a ratio between one and the l20lh
power of ten, used by Habnemann in his 60th developed power of
the Thuya'occidentalis,or the tree oflife. (See Materia Medica, Vol.
V., page 123.)-lndeed, if a Hahnemann can claim with propriety,
m.-ch greater exactitude for his infallible method of curing all
diseases than mathematicians and even astronomers aim at; then
his remarkable declaration, " every one must admit that the heal-
ing art has not existed before me" (preface, 4th edition of the Or-
ganon,) is likewise correct.
From the immense quantity of hare-brained nonsense which
distinguishes this " new art of healing," much of which our
limits oblige us to omit, we must nOtice the following assertion
contained in Hahnemann's works, (see his Treatise 'on Chronic
Diseases, Organon, &c.,) and also in Dr. Hering's Concise View.
The latter says, in accordance with Hahnemann's assertion, on
page 20, " The preparations ought not therefore to be transmitted
" from place to place in a fluid state, because their energy is liable
" to be excessively increased by. the longcontinued, though moderate
" agitation, which they thus undergo."
A man who asserted, that mere mechanicaldivision candevelope
from all :oatural substances, a power bordering on miracle8, could
not complete his vast nonsense better, than by referring to other
phenomena, which also nobody but himself and his infatuated
adherents pretend to have observed, and which, if moet distantly
confirmed, would produce far greater.and more extensive changes
in all the relations of human society than any discovery, not
excepting even the art of printing and the discovery of Columbus.
It is obvious that no science, no art, no occupation or situation of
private or social life, from the most peaceful to the most warlike,
would remain unchanged and unbenetited to the highest degree,
if this statement of the "great benefactor of mankind" were true.
Volumes tilled only with the description of all the changes and
blessings, arising from this discovery, would be insufficient to
exhaust the subject. What a benefit for travellers, since they
would require only to provide themselves, at the commencement of
their long journey, with a bottle of good madeira, which is certainly
a natural production, and a medicinal fluid too, (Organon p. 73)
{rom which they can have every day a few glasses; ifthey are care-
ful wsupply the bottle with pure water;-nay! the madeira will,
o;91t1zed by Google
224
by the "agitation" caused in riding, &.c. probably become changed
into a much nobler and milder sort of wine, perha1JS into old hock,
champaign, or lacrymre ohristi ; since, according to homreopathia,
" medicines which had undergone these operations, no longer pos-
" sessed those long continued effects of a prejudicial character,
" which we so frequently have to witness from the crude artidee,
"(see Dr. Hering, I. c. p. 14) and (on p. 20), it was the energy,
" the virtue only which was thereby so astonishingly unfolded."*
• Ho1111r0pathista will coMider these deductioDS, from Hahnemano's a.ertioos, aa
misrer.reeeotatioos, since he Aya e•pr-ly, (Orpo011, p. 299) that the actiooa of wine
and a cobol are diminished by sufficient dilutioM ; but, il we remember his sugges-
tions quoted above, about the use of wine aa a powerful remedy in ioftammatory dis-
eases, and redect with impartiality on his doctrine about the devolopment of virtoes
from all natuml sobstaocea, the reader will find our dedoctioDS aot to be far-fetched.
Since these remarks were written, we have read the " Letter to the physicians of
" France, 011 hoJIIQ!Opathia, by Count des Guidi, M. D., translated from the Freoch
"by Dr. William Channing, New-York, 1834." Similar to all those works on ho-
mreopathia, which are mostly composed by Counts, Barons, Chevaliens d'iodoatrie,
and similar personages, this is also one of the llatteat ~terary productions we have
ever seen from an obscure mao, and, even up to the modest comparison of Hahoe-
mann with Galileo and Columbus, almost a fac simile of Dr. Hering'a Coociae View.
We confess, that we never heard before that aoch a man ellisted, thnogb we can bout
of some knowledge of modem foreign literature, and we were indeed not more forto·
nate in our inquiries of other medical men. We should think also that the aealooe
translator, who waa not only auiooe to make hia countrymen minutely acquainted
with all the titles, digoitiea and functions of hia author, but also, in his motto, invoked
the "bMvens" for hia admired new healing art, would have, at leaat, mentioned the
other medical works which have emanated from the {M'D ofMooaieor le Doctsor Count
des Guidi, if socb emta, or to have proved his high standio« in the profeaaieo by
facts. Bot the able translator appears to have been so muCh enchanted with the
acuteness and consistency displayed in this letter, that, excepting a few pathetk iot~
doctory linea, be abstained from all remarks. The coacluaioos, which we have drawn
above, in regard to the virtues developed from nourishment, are also confirmed by
this author, who became enraptured with tbia new medical doctrine, because his wife
waa cored by it; be does not say uactly of what diseaae. He teaches us, on page 18,
that wine or coffee, diluted until water or mille, •limulatu and iflloxUalu more eaaily
and strongly, than if taken unmilled. To prove these experimeota obae"ed by him, he
emphatically e•claims, on page 20 : " Life! how little matter it sometimes demands
" for its reeuacitatioo, even in that function which is most strictly and servilely bound
" to matter, Nutrition~ See that mao sinking with wcarine• and hunger; repose
" and abundant aliment are indispensable, folly to restore hie exhausted forces and to
" repair his withered 1111d impoverished organs ; and yet a single mouthful of bread, a
" piece of sugar, a spoonful of wine, a mere alimentary atom, when compared with
" the wants of hia case, will forthwith revive, and for some hours sustain those failing
" maases, inspiring with a breath of vigour that vast machine shattered and falliag
" into r~•ios." Doee this Monsieur le Count Docteur, and his able translator, con-
sider a mouthful of bread to be a homreopathic dose 1 If so, the loaf to which it be-
longed would cover, at least, all Europe. Co11ld any iofereuce be drawn from biio
remark, except the common experience, that if a lamp is about to be extinguiahed
from want of oil, it will be revived for a short time by a few drops of it! He add.
also, on page 16, in suppon of homreopathia, a quotation from Or. St. Marie, who ap-
peared to have some ootiooe of bomreopathia, without knowing any thing of Hahne·
mann and bia doctrine, and who found 1t so striking that, " Cullen had already re-
" marked, that calves were better nourished and more easily faued, when the milk
"with which they were fed, waa diluted with an equal quantity ofwater, than when
" given to them without dilution." Is that an argument for the correctness of .homreo-
pathic doses~ Is it not known to every body, that men aa well as animal•, and efeo
plaota, grow thin and ~ickly, when too ricllly fed, or in too rich a soil, but stout and
healthy, when fed and nourished with due regard to their digeative and aa~imilatite
Digitized by Google
225
rartber, there Would be no danger of famine in eountriee pc)sti&ifo
log merely t,he slightest nutritious subet.anee, and good lfatet or
sugar of milk, since a small quantity of spirituoua drink, by lw
immensely developed virtue, might take the place, for aome tirDCJ,
of substantial food. We have reason to hope aleo; that tbit ••"
luable discovery will soon be completed by the art Of " potena-
11 ing" from a few·grains of, wheat, com or rice, or a few crumbs
of stale bread, nourishing virtues sufficient for millions of men.•
JKIWers 1 do• he no~ know !.h~t all living organized beings are n<1Drished,.no.t by the
Ingesta, but by the dtgesta, antt that we shall find the old proverb, " omne nimiUDIYft"
titur in contratium," confirmed hve also. Are the ezpressiona, to be healthy and fat,.
synonymous 1 Is he so i~orant of fhysiology as not to know, that all auhltancea,
wkich retard the lively cnculation o the blood, and which weaken to a certaitr clepe-
lbe constitution ofanimals,may favour obesity, which is therefore already:conaidered !7
Celina Aurelianua as a morbid symptom, and as a disease 1 Thejuetly celebrated Bt•
chat, likewise, in his ezcelleot Anatomie GetUSale, considers, nry correctly, obeaity u
arising from the weakneu of the absorbent nssels ; Darwin, and many other diatin-
guiehed physician•, also regarded it 88 the consequence of debility. Doea be 1181
know an old experiment frequently tried by European farmen, and often flUOted bJ
physiologists, if we are not mistaken, even by Albertus Haller, in his phyaioJ~ that
calves and other domestic animals, are fre~J!Uf~Jly bled to make them 1110r1 w1.&
bleeding therefore, also, in his opinioa, as ~ood a bomreopathic remedy, to om~
" better nouriehed and more easily fatted,' 88 starring; though both are eo 11i11cb
condemned by bomCllOpathiats'l Indeed! the ratiocinations oftheaa philosophers are eq
very singular, that the author of homreopati.ia, or one of his disciple•, would beneltt'
DWikind by publishing also.a new system of logic, 88 we ban reaeon to upec:t from:
their pre-eminent mathematical talents, a new theory of magnitudes, a new arith-
metic, &c.- TheAmericana learn also from Monsieurle Count Docteur des Guidi,·that·
they poSBeea numerous echools (or homreopatbia, and aa his report has bse& translated,
poblished, and its statements therefore silentlyadmitted by one ofthe!r own professional
men, they will ofcourse bs credited abroad. Such are the common manreuvreeohbeee
popular authors on bomreopathia; to make themselves mutually conspicuous aa emi-
nent authors aud practitioners, and to prove the rapid increase o*their party in an ·
COIIDtries, they say in America, that in Germany, France, Italy, &c. the first an4
oldest medical men have zealously adopted this new healing art ; in the countries
mentioned they say, in return, the same of America. Mendacia reciproca, et ex
utraque parte, quandoque ma11uo usui esse possunt.-Limua.
• Siuce these lines were written, we have again been delighted with a new and strik-
~ proof of the great blessings of bomreopathia, promoted by its faithful votaries in
tb11 new world. We were not aware !.hat " the ~eat philosovher, who ha~ beaten li
•• new path on all sides," and is constantly labourmg for discovering" great truths,"
had condescended to direct his· attention, most graciously, to the science of cookery;
and to the developement of virtues from some $Ubstances, which we thought to be be-
low his sphere, and that be ,really has commenced what our sanguine hopes only
anticipated above. A h011UEopathic chocolate is publicly recommended by the leading
bomreopatbists in Philadelphia and this city, Drs. Constantine Hering, Hans B..
Gramm, John F. Gray, and Wm. Channing, as preferable for sick and weak personS'
to any other preparation of this article. Dr. Hering states in his certificate, that this
hommopathic chocolate is made ezactly according to Hahnemann's prescription, com-
municated to the manufacturer, and that as it is less oleaginous than other kinds, it
deaervea particularly to be used also for children. Unable to find in Hahnemann'8
worb a chocolate of his invention, and supposing, therefore, that he was pleased to
COIIIJilunicata his new arcanum solely to his ~icularly beloved disciples, we can only
llllke a feW conjectures about it. The dtminution or exclusion of the oleaginous
part of cocoa, by which it ia rendered lu• rich for the stomach, has long been recom-
lllended aud practised ; !.he manufacturers, by an eaay and cheap process, gain the
~nous part, or, as it is called, the butter of cocoa, which is particularly mild and
le11 subject than similar sabstancee to become rancid, and therefore is worth more
than the c:oooa itself; henc:e the homreopatbic chocolate should be cheaper than any
29
Digitized by Google
226
We clare oit allude any further to the· immense changes which
will take place in the political condition of nations, when all fear
of famine is entirely removed. What a blessing to poor poople, if
there are any hereafter who can be 10 called, that benevolence can
beexereised towards them so cheaply! A la'rge family may for years
daily enjoy the same bottle of wine, provided they will only de-
velope its virtuesI We know not bow the temperance societies will
be able to counteract intemperance, which we see is again thus in-
directly promoted by bomooopathia !-:-All governments, and espe-
cially those of the United States, should henceforth prohibit any
passenger, travelling any great distance by mail, from carrying
any medicinal fluid with him, since a small vial of an innocent
cordial, or even a solution of one grain of table salt, may become
changed, aftersuch a shaking, into an immensely developed power
of the most violent poison, the smell of which, " by its intensely
"raised energy," might kill thousands ofmen!-Wewill seriously
mention what would long since, probably, have been the inevitable
oooaequences, if only a homreopathic fraction of this frantic non-
sense were true. ·No animal could exist on the shores of a large
lake, if only one grain of arsenic, or one poisoned rat had ac-
cidentally fall~n into it, during a moderately shaking hurricane.
Ifa small package of this, or of any similar eoluble and strong
prepared cocoa. If a hommopathic dose of any drug be mysteriously mixed in each
portion, the price cannot poAibly be enhanced by it, since, even if it were many mil-
lion times dearer than the purest ~old, one grain of such a drug would be by far too
much, if our whole globe, with all1ts continents, islands, mountains, oceans, lakes,
&c. were transmuted into hommopathic chocolate. If this chocolate consists merely
in the hommopathically developed virtue of the fruit ofthe nobleTheobroma, the price
ofcourseooglit alao to be less, aa the la1>ourofrubbingdown such an atom cannot much
increase·the value of any cheap unmedicinal aubstance added. But, neverthele11,
this chocolate is dearer, ita taste is leas agreeable, (at leaat for our own allopathic
palate), and it ia apparenti,Y, in every respect, an article far in/eriur to many othera
of that kind prepared in th1s or any other country. What ia the cause of this higher
price! Avoiding conjectures, pardonable in,thoae who remember the alcali pmum, the
llml1111fll against scarlet fever, and the introductory lines to the work on chronic dis-
- above mentioned, &c. of the old benefactor of mankind, we believe that it is
only to euetain the hommopathic maxim, in regard to the inverse ratio between mat-
ter, (the quality of cocoa) and pmt~er, (its price.) We hope that either the "old
" philoaopher" himself, or some ofhis disciples, who combine with their distinguished
profeaaional talents and acquirements an apiciat1 taste for cookery, will soon apply them
ID benefiting the people of this free country with hom<BOpathic cakes, paatries, pies,
•uugee, &c. 10 that " a treasure like this new art may quickly be estimated in a de-
" gree commenaurate with its real value ; sooner than by the kings and princes of
" Europe, who impede the progress of the new art by processes, penalties and bay-
" oneta," (see Dr. Herin~, I. c. p. 29); and who do not deserve to haYe a taate enn
of these bommopatllic dehcacies, unleas they soon rescind their processes, penalties
and bayonets, and humbly submit to Samuel Habnemann and his he81'enly doctrine !
u he, himself, calls his discoveries, saying, on page 7, Vol. III. of hie Materia lofe-
cljca, with Virgil, " ignea meat illia Yia et colestis origo."
Digitized by Google
227
poisonous substaaee, had ever been swept from a wreck into the
ocean during a tornado, by which we think it would be as weU
maken, as a small vial is by a stout man's arm in a few minute~ ;
tll fishes, and all monsters of the deep, not excepting even the
!arge sea-serpent, would long since have died.* No human being,
()I' other animal, could live in or near any place, where Iarp dM-
mieal factories of corrosive sublimate, blue vitriol, &c. are situated.
Water, which has only run for a short time through copper or
leaden pipes, would seriously injure many, as every one will admit
that water propelled by steam or any other power, will develope the
noxious properties ofcopper or lead in a few seconds, more than can
be done in several hours by a stout man.. According to Habne-
mann's opinion in regard to the great divisibility of all contagious
matter, which he cites in support of his developed drug-virtues, no
contagious disease, adhering even to letters at a distance of many
hundred miles, could ever become extinct, and one rabid dog
thrown into a large river, would infect all those who bathe in it,
when their bodies are but slightly scratched. If a person should
have ·taken one grain or less of table salt, or sho~ld accidentally
have swallowed, during dinner, a similarly small quantity of char-
coal, bath of which occur to many persons daily, and, instead of
taking a nap afterwards, should take a ride, he must either be in-
stantly killed, or be affected with some of the 895serious and dan-.
gerous symptoms produced by the virtue developed from &able~
salt, or ofthe 930 of those produced from charcoal, (see Chr. Dis.
* It appears from Habnemann's Materia Medica, 2d ed. vol. vi. p. 4. that the daa-
ger arising from one grain of a medicinal substance fallin~ into a large lake bas been
alreadyobjected to him. He answers in his usual dictatonal manner, that aucb objec-,
tiona are utterly foolish, because the mixture in ever so large a quantity of water
could never be so intimate as in each solution, made separately hy two strong sbakee,
vi1. "tllith the arm from Mti'De doumward8." (See Organon, p. 299, note.)-From.be-
low upwards would not answer this purpose.--We leave this bis defence to the
judgment of those who have witnessed a stilf breeze at sea, to say nothing of a hurri-
cane, and wbo may justly believe that the many milliona of grains of salta, etc. die·
solved in the ocean, might have been shaken enough, in the course of centuries, to
make each drop of sea-water a strong bomreopathic drug or poison, as well as the
few shakings of a solution of one grain of table-salt by the arJD of a boJDCeopatbist,
"from ~ doum1Dard8," can develope a virtue so efficacioua that it moat be i..WIIl
only otaee eury month.-Dr. Hering must have bad an uncommonly pleuant voyage,
wbeu coming from Eutope, otherwise we should think his opinion about the virtue
developed by shaking the bottle would have been shaken also.-We once ucidentally.
noticed in Fr. Bacon's works, on page 429, in vol. ii. oftbe new London ed. of 1~ ·
a singular passage, which we could not explain, but which appears to be connected
perbape with an old English saying about shaking tbe bottle.-" Many men," be Aye,
" upecially s11ch as affect gravity, have a manner, after other men'• spsecbee, to
" ahake their heads. A great officer of this land would say, It was as men shake a
" bottle, If) see if there were any wits in their heads or no."
Digitized by Google
,
228
Vol. IV. pp. 67 and 334.) Only a mao, like Hahnemann, who
COIIIiden his wretched knowledge the highest wisdom, and his
~ aid to be far superior to the operations of nature, which
bereprds (ashe expresses himself in the preface to his Organon),
ae " unavailing: contmry.to reasonable design and without sense,"
t.ould believe also, that his arms, or those of his faithful adepts,
are bauer able to develope the drug-virtues from table-salt, charcoal,
ilillt, &e. than the stomach, especially when its muscular action is
supported by the fast trotting of a horse, or any similar exercise ;
an action, so powerful in itself, that. nothing in art is to be com-
pared with it, when we consider that by it, and by the chemical
iotuence of the gastric and other digestive juices, a homogeneous,
mild and salutary pulp is prepared from perhaps fifty heterogeneous
kinds of food and drink at a fashionable dinner, and which, ac-
c:ording to Fontana, destroys also the virus of the viper; while Bos-
quillon states, that even the hydrophobic matter loses its fatal
properties; a power which Paracelsus, (this truly eminent man,
who resembled Hahnemann only in quackery, which however
WllB more pardonable in him, considering the age in which he
lind) 10 highly appreciated, terming this power, " the great master
" of alchymy in the stomach."*
To crown all th~ absurdities which the instances alleged m
con'rmation ofthis maxim of homreopatbia offer, we sbaJI amuse
our readers with one more statement o(the many which' Dr. Her-
ing probably forgot to quote in his uoparaJleled panegyrics of the
competitor of" GaJileo and Columbus.'' (C. V. pp. 9, 10.)
A German, one of the many unprofessional men who are infatu-
ated with the homreopathic doctrine and delighted with its pr~tice,
probably a disciple of Hahnemann, bas taken the very great trou-
ble to prepare, partly in snow- and partly in spring-water, exactly
ac~ording to the direction of Hahnemann, the fifteen kwulredti
dilution of sulphur, and pretends to have found very distiru:t me-
• Ooe lie alwaysleade to another. HahnemiUin'a aeeertion in regard to the im-
- cbiUigea produce4 in the fluid preparatiooe of all medical euba&ancea by their
traD.miNion from place to place, is eo e•travagant, that he moat have been oblia:ed to
make tbia atatement as a consequence of his developed drug-Yirtuea, jnat as thelatter
wul'ereed upon him by his eecond muim. We have seen that thie maxim, or his faiN
D!terpretation of similia eimilibus cul'llntur originated with him, after accidentally ob-
eeniar, 'that the eymptoma produced in healthyjereona by drugs, resembled thoae of
eoaae natural dis eaaea : as allopathic doaea use in such a manner would injure, he
wu ebllgacl to reduce theae doaes to almost nothing ; and then, to e•plain their ac-
t.ioo, he was forced to broach the doctrine of developed drug-virtues: Now, if these
drug-Tirtues had been developed merely by two shakes downwards, it would have
,appeared too palpably like magic or witchcraft ; and to do away with this imprt~eaioo,
~ ,aya, the 'riJtues are developed also by transmil!sion from place to place.
··'
Digitized by Google
229
dicel virtues in one drqp ohhis presumed solution. Hahnemann,
in a postscript to a public statement of this unique experiment,
(see Archiv fuer homreopathiscbe Heilkunde, vol. xi. no.!. p. 67.
according to the quotation of Dr. Kopp, 1. c. p. 71), fully agrees
with the author in the marvellous operation of this dilution ;
though he adds, (Chr. ms. vol. iv. p. 338), that the 30th dilutiOD
o(sulphur may not only be considered as the mildest, but also aa
the most developed preparation ofthis substaoce.-Now let the
reader observe, that sulphur is considered, by all ancient and mo-
dem chemists, to be insoluble in water; further that, admitting even
the snow-water to be quite pure, and sulphur to be soluble in wa-
ter, the purest spring water contains, when compared with the
1500th dilution of sulphur, au immense surplus of earths, salts,
iron, and other ingredients, almost all ofwhich are considered by
Hahnemann as powerful medicinal 1111hltances, from which drug·
virtues must become developed bJJ the same procus : furthermore,
that the 1500vials ofglass, or any similar substance probably used
· in this experiment, wo~ld likewise impart to the solution, by the
3000 necessary shakes, a proportionally much larger quantity of
potash, and p~rticularly of silicea, this powerful homreopathic re-
medy, unless these drugs and remedial agents are excluded by
miracles or witchcraft: and last, not least, that this 1500th dilu-
tion of one grain is equal to one divided by one with 3000 ~01,
or is the 3000th power of teo !
It is easily ascertained, that.the very large number, expressing
the distance of the nearest fixed star, Syrius, from our globe, in
inches or any considerably small fraction of an inch, is.a mere
tritle, and less than any imaginable small magnitude, ·in compari-
son with this fraction ; and that the distance from our globe ~o
any heavenly body, observable only by the greatest refractor ex..
iatiog, even expressed by inches or geometrical lines, would also
appear a tritle, when compared to the 3000th power of ten.•--.
Who would not exclaim, on seeing such unparalleled nonsense in
print :-Helleborum kUce lwminibulopus ut!
• The greatest diameter of our globe being 595,072,000, let us ssy one with nine
zeros in inchea ; the l{feateat distance of the sun from our globe b.eing 2800 timee
u much, hi• distance m inche• isl,666,201,600,000, or about one wtth twelve zeros;
Syrius, according to Haygen's calculation, is abo~t 30,000 times .this distan~e, 01
300000000000000 in inches; we will aay, one with 17 zeros : thta number teleee
by one with 43 zeros, when compared with H~nemann's usus! ~th dilution, an~ by
.one with 2Q83 zero• leas th11n the above-menttoned 1600th dtlutton of one grato of
,sulphur.
Digitized by Google
230
" Somnia, tenore• magicoe, mineola, aagu,
"Noctut11oelemurea, portentaque TbeNala."-Hur.
We would advise the enlightened member ofthe chamber ofde-
puties in Baden, who insisted upon having a professorship exclu-
sively for the homceopathic doctrine at Heidelberg, (the oldest
and most distinguished university in Germany, founded in 1346,
which always was, and still is, particularly at present, distinguish-
ed for the most ingenious and talented professors of medicine and
surgery) ; as we also would recommend to all ·the admiren and
amateurs of bomreopathia, to take a slate and pencil, and ascertain
what the bomceopathic remedies, their diJutions, triturations, do-
ses, potenzised powers and developed virtues reany are. Ifthey
are not cured of their mental disease by this simple experiment,
nothing in the world can cure them.
By the aid of numbers, to be found in every work on astronomy,
they can easily ascertain, that. if the whole planetary system, the
sun, planets and all their moons, should be changed into pure
water, alcohol or sugar of milk, and one grain of any substance
should be dissolved in this immense mass of fluid, or be minutely
triturated with its solids, every drop or grain of such a solution or
mixture, would be a fraction of the whole mass, equal only to one
divided by one with about fifty zeros, or by one with ten zeros less
than the homreopathic thirtieth dilution, generally prescribed by
Samuel Hahnemann; and yet be advises explicitly, that even less
should be given. As he prescribes one drop of the sixtieth dilution
of the juice of Thuya occidentalis, (see Materia Medica, 2d edition,
vol. v. p. 123) this dose is therefore still far smaller than one drop
of the planetary system would be, if homreopathically medicated,
in the manner mentioned !-We challenge all mankind to name
another instance in the sciences, arts, &c., where a mao bas
.asserted similar nonsense, and has not been considered fully entitled
to a place in the lunatic asylum !-Never can, never will posterity
believe, that in the 19th century, which bas scarcely passed its
first quarter, and may already boast of the greatest progress in
natural sciences, a Samuel Habnemano has not only been respected
as an author, but bas been entrusted with the life and health of
his fellow-men, and bas been considered by many, who claim a
reapectable standing in the profession, as "a reformer of practical
" medicine, as one of the greatest philosophers, medical geoiUS&eS,
"and benefactors of mankind !"
Digitized by Google
231
Let every one calmly and impartially reflect on the intensive ani
extensive importance of the unparalleled absurdities of the homm-
opathic doetrine,ud not be surprised bytherusedeguerre which
its fanatic advocates generally use, in admitting its extravagant ·
and uncommon bearings; let them not be deterred from a minute
scrutiny of this horrid disgrace of the human mind and of our alit
when they read such tirades as Dr. Hering employs in the intro-
duction to his Concise View, on page 3, to prepossess the mind of
the reader in favor of his all-curing new art of healing. . " He to
"whom the Hahnemannean system of medicine is new, and who-
"is at once brought to survey it as a whole, must be struck by i&s
"peculiarities. Indeed, it differs so extraordinarily from any .to
" which he bas hitherto been accustomed, that at the first glance
" he would be prone to regard it with distrust; while at the same
" time, its colossal dimensions, the monstrous compass of its fun-
" damental pri11ciples wear a discouraging aspect," &c.
The principal topics which we have selected from Habnemo.nn's
works will prove not only, that his developed drug-virtues must be
considered by all men of common sense, either as nonentities and
chimeras, or as powers different from any in nature which we
hitherto know, and that Hahnem~nn isinnothing more correct than
in asserting, that be discovered a world of new powers, a glorified,
state of substances, an immense multitude ofmiracles! He ought
therefore not to have used the term potenzised, since this expres-
sion would admit the idea, that these powers or virtues have been
latent before they were disenthralled. we repeat, his virtues de-
veloped from drugs must be considered absolutely as newly created;
created only·by homreopathic manipulations, since it is impossible
by any other physical or chemical process, which has been hitherto,
orever will be known, to develope powers which can be in the least
compared with them. In addition to the reasons which we have
already alleged, we must therefore declare that no man was ever
more inconsistent than Habnemann, when to support the validity
of his doctrine, he used in so many instances· the statements of
others in respect to the treatment with allopathic doses of drugs,
and did not consider that his trials with drugs on healthy personiJ,
have been made with much larger doses than allopathists hav&
ever prescribed; while in natural diseases he uses also drugs pre-
pared in a manner never beard of before, and according to his own
usert.ion, eo widely different from their crude state and prejudicial
Digitized by Google
232
cbaracaer. wa.o, for instance, would refer w ttperimenfa \rith the
ore of any metal, to confirm the truth of other experiments made
with the pure metal, and yet the metallie contents of the ore whieb
are merely oxyda.ted, sulpburetted, or otherwise chemically com-
biaed with other minerals io the ore, do not require any miracu-
llus transmutation into a glorified state, or into a spirit to beoome
pare: eould any one, for example, judge of the poisonous effect
ofone grain of deutocbloras bydrargyriorcorrosive sublimate, from
the comparative mildness of the natural cinnabar, and stiU much
lea from metallic mercury, which can be taken by pounds with-
oat injury 'I In both cases Hahnemann will admit that no homre-
opathic virtues whatever were developed from these drugs, since
otherwise he could not have asserted, that his triturations and sha-
king& only can develope his infinite spirits, and much less, thai to
obtain the true salutary glorified potenz, the 18th dilution was at
least required. According to the conceptions hitherto adopted io
ecientik language, a potenzised power does not differ in its nature
from what it bas been originally, but is only a higher degree of
tlfe 8ante, either extensively or intensively. On the contrary, if a
power is changed into another, it cannot be called potenziaed but
altered. A piece of flint for instance, (an example improperly
used by Hahnemann, when explaining his developed drug-virtues,
since it is the steel and not the .dint which becomes ignited by the
ftiction,) canont be considered as an igniting substance, before the
spark is drawn from it by friction and by the influence of the
oxygene of the atmosphere;-the .dint (the steel) contains the
caloric in its bound state, but being bound by the specific capacity
of both bodies, itdoes not exist as free caloricor as fitforignition ;'it
might also be developed by any process and to any extent, but with·
out a medium favorable for its ignition, it will never ignite, and
with the aid ofthis medium only, caloric is liberated, by friction, to
a degree promoting ignition, but it is not changed by this process
into another matter j it is exactly the same agent which it was
before. Nobody will therefore think the caloric and the property
of any combustible substance of becoming ignited, to be newly
created by the process mentioned, or to depend essentially ori
&he larger or smaller bulk of the substance; and much Jess,
that in conformity with the hom<20pathieally developed virtues,
from a smaller piece of sueb a substance more caloric, and con•
M~quently a larger spark could be developed than from a larger
Digitized by Google
233
one, or that the ratio between ignition and bulk must be considered
as uwerse.
It is evident, that according to Hahnemann's assertions about
this subjec.t, any quantity of a drug, from which no virtue is de-
veloped by his manipulations, must be considered as an inert sub-
stance, or at least eo, in regard to the homrnopathic property which
it would possess when properly manipulated;-the substance, be it
ever so large, must be regarded as equally ineffective in respecuo its
medical property, as mountains of a combustible su~stance are in
regard to their igniting property, until their specific capacity for
caloric, which they may contain in ever so large a quantity, is
diminished in a. sufficient degree, and under circumstances favor-
able to ignition ; thus for instance, millions of pounds of gun-
powder may be safely stored in vaults of tlint and iron.
The gross jargon quoted above, from page 14 of the Concise
View, and from Hahnemann's different writings, cannot free ho-
mreopathists from admitting implicitly, that their developed drug-
virtues, if tbey exist, are created by their manipulations, and im-
mensely differ from those qualities which the drugs possessed in
their crude state.• Though most of them would not object to
+ Among the many examples drawn from common occurrences by holl}(.llOjlathists,
which we have proved to be delusive and false, we observe in Monsieur le Count
Docteur Des Gu1di'sletter the following, on page 19," but though all these precedents
" should fail us at once" (he means those mentioned in our earlier note ; and similar
ones of minor importance) "would not the experiment of Spallanzani alone, upon the
" dilfusibility of the spermatic fluid of the frog, compel us to see nothing incredible in
" the power ofhomret?pathic doses 1" Here we see again a very nice specimen of the
groseest paralogism which these close-thinking men prolfer, when they, for the de-
fence of their doctrine. allude, in the manner of their master, to common-place ili-
etances. One drop of the spermatic fluid of a frog fructifies many thousand frog-
eggs : the 30th developed virtue of a .!rug is immensely less in bulk and weight than
tlie bulk and weight of a sick person to be cured by the drug; ergo, its developed
virtue must be considered as a never-failing powerful remedy.-Should Monsieur le
Count Docteur Des Guidi, or his able translator, have e\·er fructified, by their deve
loped virtue, one frog-egg, we would believe that lhey can always fructify frog
eggs, and even all other kinds of..eggs; but nobody can conceive what similarity, and
much lese what identity exists betweea a non-fructified frog-egg and a disease! What
could not be proved by such singular syllogisms and such reasoning asia here adopt-
ed! The spermatic fluid ofthe frog is much more substantial tban the aura seminalis
in animals of a higher or~er; and as far as we cau judge of these great mysteries of
organized life, the spermatic fluid, or the aura seminalis, kindles the latent nisus for-
malivus at one point, and this kindling spark, once developed, extends .in those cases,
at the next moment likewise to the ne.r.t point, where more organized matter is ready
for its frnctification; and so on, as lou~~: as such matter, the nisaa formativus of which
is matured exists; just as one spark will exJIIode many million pounds of gunpowder in
a moment, without igniting every grain separately. Must therefore this little spark,
~bich, when extin~iahed in time willolo no injury, be considered as possessed of an
IIDIDensely or infimlely developed quantily ofcaloric 1 In the same manner we may,
mutatis mutandis, explain infection lly an inconsiderable quantity of small or cow-
pox matter, which is likf!wise a favourite topic of homreopathists to prepossess igno-
rant men for their fancifully small doses : 1t is however ~lear, that here a)80 the vi-
30
Digitized by Google
234
medical witchcraft, we shall nevertheless try to pro\'e this more
pi inly by the following apagogical demonstration, or dedoctio
ad absurdum.
The homooopathic drug-virtue can be either less or greater, or
equal to the power of a correspondent allopathic dose, whieh bas
not been manipulated.-If both are equal, then the homreopatbic
treatment is on the same footing with the allopathic, with regard to
the dose ; that is, one decillionth part of a grain of a drug will
operate alw;tys in the same manner, whether developed or not;
and the wbole doctrine of developed virtues must be admitted as
nonsensical, or as a wilful deception. Hahoemaoo and his fol-
rue ite~.>lfdoes not become diAtributed over the whole body, but only a cliaeued process
is kindled in a small point in the lunge by inhalation, or on the akin by absorption, etc.
and then spreads over all thllfe parts naturally disposed for this morbid proc8118; which
disposition however ia generally for eYer ntinguiehed by the specific change• in the
reproduo&ive ayetem, as consequences of the morbid procese itself. Without such a
participation of the whole system, manifested by a feverish reaction, neither small nor
cow·pox can therefore protect against another identical infection. The allusion of
homreopathists to the daviaibility ofthe small-pox virus by the air, for the defence of
their dose•, leade to the same paralogism just mentioned. Their argument is this,
that because one phenomenon, presenting a great effect on the human body, can only.
ba explained by a great divisibility of matter, therefore the difFerent drug-Yirtues,
being developed from molter minutely divided, muet aleo be infinitely effectual. Ab-
stracting from the nlidity of their statements, of which we ehall soon speak, these
ratiocinations should rest on their own intrinsic correctneu : but then they must con-
sistently prove by other incontrovertible experiments than those which are to be
proved by it, that the effects oftheir drugs are not lessened, but increased by their im-
menae division or developement, unlike tho6e of other bodies, for instance, musk,
gold, etc., which, though exceedingly diYisible, lose their effects, as all bodies do, in
direct proportion to their weight or mechanical division. Because a sm11ll fraction of
one eubetance bas eome effect, we have no right to conclude the same in regard to
another, with9ut sufficient proof that the other operatf!s iu the same manner;
otherwist all substances being immensely divisible, must operate on the human body
alike ; and instead of using instances eo far fetched, the homreopathists need only to
declare in fayour of Bonnet's Theory of Generation per emboitement; according to
which, all ngetables and animals which have existed and shall exist, were inclosed in
the 6rat grain of seed, or the first drop of spermatic ftuid; which preaentsamorestrilt- _
ing instance of a great diYisibility than any similar one. The instance of •mall-pox
proves nothing in favour of the operations ofinfinite small homc:eopathic doses, and the
moculation ofcow-pox is still leu conclueive, aseven the many thousandth partofa drop
cannot be conaidered a homc:eopathic dose, as we have already stated, in many placet.
Both instances ofsmall-pox, as well as cow-pox, admit still lese ofany soundcomparieon
with homreopathic drug~, because both do not operate abeolutely and 11nconditionally:
for if this were the case, every individual would be subject to an infection in a small-pox
epidemic, and every vaccination must be successful: farther, in both, the develope-
ment, is performed without the aid of mechanical operation ; and also, the small-and
cow-pox protect against a return of the same disease, a property never as yet attri-
buted to the homreopathic drug-virtues. Admitting, however, even that the hoiiiOlO-
pathic doses operate as certainly as the small-pox virus itself, still an esaential dissi-
milarity exists between both of them, inasmuch as Hahnemann, adverse to all exter-
nal remedies, requires for his drugs, the aid of the stomach; whereas, accordins to the
celebrated Amencan physician Rut!!h, (see Obse"ations and Inquiries, V. n. 2.) small-
pox matter, like the most virulent other animal poieons, can be swallowed without in-
fection. The infection of small-pox by letters, as alluded to by Hahnemann, is very
doubtful; though, in such cases, an allopathic dose of small·pox matter might haTe
adhered to the letter, and have remained dry, until being afterward• dissolved by a
warm damp air, it was inhaled by the person suscrptible to it.
Digitized by Google
235
Jowers would ao any thing rather than admit that the medical.ef-
fect of any dose of a drug, where the presumed virtue is deve-
loped, is leu than a similar dose when undeveloped;. for by this,
the third maxim and its superstructure would fall to the ground,
and not a shadow of homreopathia would remain. It would ~
then evident, that they insist, merely from caprice, upon their
atoms, which, thus divested from all virtues, spirits; miracles, etc.
would soon lose all confidence: should they, howe\'er, follow the
maxim, " similia similibus curantur," wMh large allopathic doses,
their treatment would soon prove to be the most murderous which•
has ever existed.
The third category then only remains to be considered, viz.-
that when the virtue of a drug is developed by bomreopathic ma-
nipulation, a dose of it is immensely more powerful than a similar
dose of the same drug when undeveloped; the remedisll proper-
ties of both being identical, they differ only in degree ; this is the
case with gravitation, as, in a vacuum the·feather falls to the ground
as quickly as a heavy weight; and whh electricity, whether deve-
loped in a small piece of sealing wax or in a thunder-cloud. Butit
is evident, that some quantity ofthe substance which has not been
developed, must be an equivalent and produce the same effect as
the 30th dilution of the developed drug ; for instance, a pound of
Peruvian bark must possess as much remedial virtue as the 30th
developed virtue of a grain ofthe same. In this case it is tmneces·
sary to adopt infinite spirits, etc, and homreopathists, by admitting
this, would no longer oppose, but advocate allopathic doses; since
they cannot deny.that cases may exist, where the immense homreo-
pathic virtues are too strong, and the m!ICh smaller virtues in an
allopathic dose would be better. Thus, for children, they would
perhaps prescribe ~me pound of Peruvian bark pro dosi, rather
than a grain of the 30th dilution. Their reproaches of the allo-
pathic prescriptions of large doses are then ridiculous, since, in
their eyes, the allopathic doses must c~nsistently be exceedingiy
smaiJ ; and by this it could 'also be best explained why homreo-
pathists administer one dose only once in four or six weeks.•
* Patients under homreopathic trt'atment are generally very much deceivP-d, in be-
lieving that what is administMed to them every day is medicine : they frequently take
a true homreor:thic dose of a drug only once in one, two, or evP-n in six weeks.-
They can easi y ascertain this by observing, that.among ten, twenty, or more small
doaee, which they receive, one or two are marked to be taken on a certain day. Faith-
Digitized by Google
236
The whole privilege which Hahnemann thought to secure for
his developed drug-virtues, as always acting absolutely, uncondi-
tionally, &c., opposite to the vital powers, which always act
senseless, clumsy, &c. would fall to the ground, when he must
admit that the substances which nature offers t.o him, are without
his co-operation, though in proportionally larger doses, not less
:;;alutary than with it.
Whereas, therefore, the medical properties of all simple drug!;' are,
according to homceopathia, in no quantity, either equal to, or more,
or less than th..e corresponding doses of the same drugs with
their virtues homreopathically developed, and whereas, also, as we
have seen, the developed drug-virtues are not to be compared with
any potoer in nature hitherto known ; it follows, that they are not
only to be considered as powers sui generis, but as supernatural
powers, they may be termed miracles, spirits, &c. and the manipu-
lations them~elves chiromanr.y, witchcraft, &c.
Should it ever be proved that Hahnemann's mysterious mani-
pulations have only been a subterfuge to save his maxim, similia
similibus curantur, from its downfall, on account of the great injuries
of large doses when given in accordance with that maxim, and
that he believes the difference between the homreopathic and allo-
pathic treatment, not to consist in the immensely increased power
of the drug, but only in the absolute smallness of the homreopathic
doses, than he has wantonly exposed the li"es of many healthy
persons to the greatest danger, by experimenting on them with
immense doses of drugs, as he did for instance, with four ounces
of powdered bark, mixed with twenty ounces of alcohol ;-a quan-
tity which, when compared with the thirtieth dilution of one grain,
would be far more than sufficient to destroy all living animals in
ful homreopathist• are bound by their doctrine to act in thio manner, and to give in
the intermediate hour~, days, or weeks, only a small quantity of dugar of milk, which
they themselves consider a. nothing. Hahnemann, probably from his great respect
for truth only, does not permit his followers to relieve the anxiety of their patients by
naming the dise•se diotinctly, and advises them, as we have seen. ~o use only the
term, "a kind of such or such a complaint :" but nevertheleso he directs his follow-
ers to deceive their patients, as he usually does, by giving, for many days or weeks.
doses of sugar of milk under th~> name of mP.dicine ; though no practitioners hlld eTer
less reason to deceive their patieats, in order to operate fa..-ourably upon their mind•.
than homreopathists; for when, as they assert, all nature cannot disturb the marvel-
lous operations of their drug-virtues during four or six weeks, what e\·il could be ap-
prehended from causing the patient a little anxiety by telling him the tmth ~ When
speaking on this subject, (See Chr. Dis. vol. i. p. 216.) the old sinner adds, very
piously, "for this purpose I consider sugar of milk an invaluable gift of God." What
a contrast with the honourabll' Dr- Mead, who, thankful for the great remedial pro-
perties of PPruvtan bark, termed this drug, '' Mngr:um Dr.i dnnum."
Digitized by GoogIe
237
our whole planetary system by bark-fever or ague, if their na-
ture is similar to that of man. The only defence which Hah·
nemann could make, is the great difference between the healthy
and diseased state, by which he p1·oved that much weaker medical
virtues are required to produce a drug-sickness in the former, than
to eure the latter. But if he will admit the exact proportion
between power and its end, wisely adapted to each other in nature,
and also that many recover without any aid from serious diseases,
for instance, from intermittent fever, it follows that in these cases the
ratio ofthe vital powers, which take the place of his immensely de-
veloped drug-virtues, to the natural disease, must be the same as
the ratio of these immensely developed virtues to the natural dis-
eases cured by them; or also the same, as the ratio between the
immense developed virtue of a small homreopathic dose, and the
undeveloped, though (in weight) much larger, allopathic dose. The
saine reasoning will be applicable, mutatis mutandis, if he should as-
sert, that the medical properties decrease immensely by homc:eopa-
thicdevelopements ; the instances just quoted would then also be no
less inexplicable, especially if we should admit as true, his singular
conceptions about the impotence of the vital powers in the cure of
o.R diseases ; for, if the vital powers are reduced so immensely as
his drug-virtues then are, how could they do any thing, and much
less, how could they remove without any medical assistance any
serious disease, as they however do1-Hahnemann therefore
must admit, that two doses of any drug, equal in weight, are also
equal in their medical strength or virtue, whether they are or are
not homreopathically developed, or by this second deductio ad ab-
surdum it is also conclusively proved, that in his developed or ·
potenzised doses, for instance, of Peruvian bark, Belladonna, table
salt, &c., the original natural properties of these substances kave
ceased to exist, and that they are replaced by other ones, newly
created by his homreopathic manipulations ; and since nothing·like
them exists in nature, he must term them, as he explicitly does,
miracles, a new creation, a glorified state of substances, spirits,
&e.
Ridiculous as all homreopathia, but especially as the doctrine of
developed drug-virtues must appear to every impartial reader, when-
ever he has become closely acquainted with it, and trivial as it
may seem to many, whether the public are in favor of one or the
other method of medical treatment ; it mul!t be extremely impor-
Digitized by Google
238
tant to every lover of truth in general, if be reftects on the serious
consequences which may arise from such a horrid superstition. To.
day, Hahnemannism may be considered merely as a medical doc-
trine, to which as many, or even leas, may fall victims than toany
other medical doctrine or mode of treatment; to-morrow, it may
easily affect the welfare and happiness of mankind in one way or
another, though not directly by its professional features. The his-
tory of mao proves sadly, that credulity and superstition have been
comparatively of almost greater and more lasting injury to the wel-
fare and happiness of society, than truth has been ofbenefit. Con-
sidering the extended intercourse of the medical profession with the
people, we assert that, besides the immediate injury of health and
life, no medium exists, by which the spreading of obnoxious super-
stitions can be more promoted, and all the blessings of truth be
more counteracted and annihilated, than by a medical doctrine
which demands implicit belief in miracles; especially when they
are seemingly supported by false or delusive statements.
It is very curious, that in our enlightened age these evident
consequences of the hommopathic doctrine should have been un-
noticed so long; though this Abracadabra is far more guilty of lbe
named obnoxious iotlueoces, than its innocent predecessor was
in ageA long past. Let people, disposed to credulity and super-
stition from want of education, or a propensity to the extraordinary
and marvellous, believe tbat a privileged claBB of men, or they
themselves, can developeimmense powers by certain manipulatiom,
or any other processes so easily performed, from an atom of dint,
table salt, arsenic, or any other substance; let these powers be said
to belong to a new discovered world of potenzised, glorified and
miraculous powers or spirits ; let it be believed that these powers
operate more absolutely and unconditionally than any power known
to us in nature ; let it further be believed that through the actions
of these artificially developed powers, men can generate an im-
mense number of bodily and mental disorders, from a small wart
or pimple up to abortion, hernia, apoplexy, &c., from the slightest
sensations of grief and afHiction to suicide and murder ; let us
admit the truth of all these mad and abominable aBBertioos, plainly
expressed by Hahoemaon, and publicly admitted by his followers
as the highest wisdom and truth; and we shall soon witness again
the horrid consequences of implicit faith in all kinds of miracles
and-witchery, which for so many centuries resisted and frustrated
D1g1tized by Google
239
the blessings of an enlightening religion and philosophy, and
which rendered the human race so miserable.
For those who might think us unjust or sophistical, notwith-
standing all our quotations and remarks, we feel obliged to quote
only one other assertion from Hahnemann, which alone would be
fully sufficient for our defence. Speaking, in the introduction to
the sixth volume of his Materia Medica, of the powers developed
from metallic gold by triturating and diluting it twelve times with
sugar of milk, he asserts: " that one quadrillionth part of a grain,"
(that is, a fraction of a grain, equal to one divided by one with
twenty-four zeros), " is so powerful, that a person suffering by me-
" lancholy, despising life, and inclined, from insupportable anguish,
'' to commit suicide, has merely to smell a few minutes of a vial,
" containing one grain of the just mentioned solution, and this
" wretched being will, in one hour1 be delivered from his evil t~pirit,"
(demon)" and the full love of life and cheerful temper will again
4 ' be awakened in him." Will homceopathists, will these fanatics
deny, that they implicitly believe in witchcraft, when they believe
such ravings as trustworthy facts; or, if they do not believe them,
will they deny that they premeditatedlyimpose upon the public, by
recommending this " new art of healing," as the only safe one
which rests on " incontrovertible truth," and by proclaiming its
author as one of the greatest medical geniuses and benefactors of
mankind.
"Once more Democritua arise on.earth,
" With cheerful wisdom and inatructi<re mirth,
" See motley life in modem trappinp dre11'd,
" And feed with varied fools th' eternal jest."-JoliuU'II.
We must therefore direct the particular attention of all men,
anxious to promote truth, and to cheek the progress of eredul\ty
and superstition, in whatever shape they may appear, and under
whatever pretext they may be palmed upon the public, to watch
minutely the farther progress of the homceopathie doctrine, and to
enlighten those who are duped and deceived by it, if it should last
longer than maybejust.lyexpected and hoped. Thistaskwill be much
eA.Sier for them ifthey attend to the following last topic ofour discus-
sion about the third maxim of homceopathia, and examine with
us, whether Hahnemann is in this maxim of his doctrine also as
inconsistent with his own statements and suggestions, as we have
endeavoured to prove him to be with regard to the other two.
We will therefore show, admitting the truth of Hahnemann':J
Digitized by Google
240
experimenw, statements and assertions, as premises of his conclu-
sions, that the latter cannot be correct, since his own stateme~t:i
and suggestions contradict each other, and that we must, there-
fore, still more consider his doctrine as the highest potenzised non-
sense, or as premeditated falsehood.
To say nothing of Hahnemann'~> impositions upon the public,
as proved in the preceding pages, every impartial reader will
doubt the veracity of a man who, calls the physicians of all ages
murderers, and who, while attributing their cure of one patient in
several hundreds only to chance, because they neglected the maxim,
similia t>imilibus curantur, and also the virtues developed from
drugs, totally disregarded both himself, during most of his practice,
and used larger doses of medicines than most allopathists prescribe ;
and this too without any clear indications.
In the same year that Hahnemann first published his ideas about
homreopathia in Hujelanrfs Journal of Practical Medicine, ttnd
nine years before he issued his work, Fragmenta de Viribus Medica-
mentorum Positivis, Lipsire, &c. 1805, be empirically used the most
powerful drugs, and in much larger doses than were ever recom-
mended by any author on materia medica or therapeutics. This
will be proved by his public statement of his treatment of Kloken-
bring, an insane man, for whom he prescribed twenty-five grains
oftartar emetic, to be taken at once, (see Deutsche Monatschrift,
February, 1796.) The year after his first suggestions of bomceo-
pathia, (see Hujelanrfs periodical just mentioned, Vol. III. 1797,
p. 138,) he published a case of colic, cured by him, in which he
had administered within a short time, according to his own state-
ment, Tartar emetic, Gamboge, &amrrumy, radiz Pilicis mari.s,
(one ounce daily for four days in succession), Charcoal, Semina
Cyna, Colocynthu, Castor oil, Tin, Iron, Semina Sabadilla,
Sulphur, Petroleum, Camphor, Asajcetida, Epsom salt, Ipe-ca-
cuanha, Opium, Oil of Cajeput, and, in addition, the Arcana of
Nuffer and Clossius for the tape-worm, which contain the
strongest drastics, and other powerful drugs in the largest
doses; and after he found himself mistaken about the presumed
tape-worm, he prescribed powders, each of which contained Jour
grains of Veratrum album.-Stilllater, be mentions in the same
periodical, (see Vol. V. p. 40, s. 99), cases of induenza, for which
he had prescribed, to adult persons, the enormous quantity offorty
gt·ains ofcamphor to be taken within twentyfour hours, and
Digitized by Google
24l
fifteen grains of the same, dsily, for f(lUrteen days, by a boy
ttcelve years old. At that time he administered Ledum palustre,
one of his gre~t homreopathic remedies, in doses of six or seven
grains! though afterwards, (see Mat. Med. Vol. IV. p. 176), it was
proved by him to be so ·extremely powerful that he was obliged to
giveitonly in the quintillionth dilution! and so too with other drugs;
powdered Peruvian bark, for instance, which he says at that time
he prescribed by drachms. .One of two cases must be. true ; either
Hahnemann then knew, as his fanatic followers as8ert, by long
experience, the salutary effect of his method generally, and parti-
cularly the beneficial effect of his small doses ; and then he is,
acCording to his own verdict, guilty of repeatedly attempting or
committing murders, because he was conscious of his detrimental
treatment, and yet used it to such a shocking excess; or he thought
no more of homreopathia at that time, than he would of a vague
idea suggested by him to the profession, and then he is guilty of
the greatest falsehood in stating his new infallible method to be the
result of many years thought, and of frequent experience at the bed-
side of patients. This, however, could not be the case, even if we
allow him eight years, from 1797 to 1805, because he was, as we
have stated, almost during that whole period, a wandering phy-
sician, and not engaged in any permanent practice, and the largest
practice of eight years, is certail\ly too short a time to form an es-
timate in regard to any, and much lees to such a medical method
of treatment.
As an additional specimen of the arithmetical exactitude ob-
served by homreopathists, it may be stated that they asserted al-
ready, many years ago, that Hahnemann had pursued his practice,
in accordance with his doctrine, for upwards of 40 years, and the
same is now stated publicly by the homreopathists ofthis country;
thus we have read in the German Gazette of Philadelphia, that
Hahnemann has practised homalOpathia for upwards of 43 years.
Of course, according to homreopatlric arithmetic, 1805 deducted
from 1833, leaves 43!
When Hahnemann first began to recommend homreopathia.
many of his preSClriptions remained intelligible and within the
limits of possibility : one grain of good extract of belladonna dis-
solved in one, two, or three ounces of water, and given, according
to his first direction, in doses of a few <Jrops, could at least be ima-
gined effectual, aud have certainly proved so in a few extraordinary
31
Digitized by Google
242
casef!, The same may be ascertaioed, with respect to many other
drugs, by anyjudicious physician, who does not estimate the powers
ofdrugs by grocer's weight, by ounces nnd pouads;-especially to nar-
cotics, which Habnemann recommended formerly in similar doses.
But. what confidence can be placed in Hahnemann's statements, if,
for instance, he pubiishes in the year 1815, that he had often de-
rived immediate and permanent benefit from one Uflmi.xed drop
of Bryonia juice ; a few years after he asserts, that he seldom
meets with a caae, in which one drop ofthe decillionth solution, or
_!_ part of one drop of the same drug, could be used without in-
1011
jury, and that no ease exists in which the undiluted juice would be
advisable; and twelve years later he states, that the patient must
StReU unly of a sugar-pellet of the size of a hemp or poppy seed,
moistened with the decilliooth solution of the same ! (see Kopp.
I. e. p. 69.) In his Materia Medica, (Reine Arzneymittellehre,
Vol. V. p. 122, 1827), he remarks, in regard to charcoal: that no
stronger developed virtue, (Potenzierung) of charcoal is required
for homreopathie use than the millionth ; three years after, (1830,
in the last volume of his Chronic Diseases, page 3,) he says, of
the same substance: "I have used for a long time ( ! ) the sixtil-
liontb dilution,"-(there is, truly no little difference between one,
and one sixtillionth part of one) ;-" until I have lately found the
" decillionth dilution the best with which to moisten one or two
" small sugar-pellets, which answers all desired purposes;"-
that is again, even admitting the tluid required to moisten such a
sugar-pellet, made of starch and sugar, equal to a full fraction of
one grain, a tritling difference between one with twenty-four zeros,
and one.- We would advert here again, not only to the remarkable
fact that, by asserting the power or virtue to become developed at
the eighteenth dilution, be has retracted all his former assertions in
regard to all dilutions of a lower degree, though be bas before re-
peatedly recommended them as infallible, but also, that he first
prescribed charcoal in an immensely itronger dose in powder, and
afterwards many million times weaker as a tluid, which implies,
that he.foolishly considers charcoal not only as soluble in alcohol
or water, but more soluble than most soluble salts, though it is
notoriously one ofthe most insoluble substances in existence. In his
Mat. Med. Vol. I. p. 445, the dose of the liquid extract of aconitum
¥! fixed by him at the octillionth dilution, and in Vol. VI. ofthe
Digitized by Google
243
-same work; p. 199, in a not.e, he restricts this dose again for the
ll&.me purpose to am~Uing once of a sugar-pellet of the usual size,
e.nd moist.ened only with the thirtieth dilution of the same drug ;
and again, in another place of the same work, (Vol. V. p. 123) be
speaks of the vigetlillionth dilution, that ii!: one grain's weight
di~ byl0110.*
• Hahnemann's numerous suggestions about the intreaaed power of all natural
aubetanees, and especially of all -drugs, when properly shaken or rubbed down with
unmedieinal aubtrtaneea, are in themselves acontradiction, because, iffrom all _
natural
substances a virtue or power b~omes developed, sugar ofmilk, alcohol or acetic acid,
cannot be considered as inactive, or as mere menstrua, since, by the same process
to which the drug is subjected, the virtue of the eubetance, improperly termed by him
unmedicinal, will also be developed, particularly as it is known that these substances
are DOt simple or elementary, and, as be himself believes, that all substances are, more
-or less, compound. Moreover, Wll must remember hie explicit suggestion, (see Chron.
Die. Vol. I. p. ~9) that it will not be wrong if atill smaller doses are chosen, since
" it ie impossible to give them too small"-also qui*«! a novahy in regard to the hu·
man inklllect 81 well as to all experien.:e, as no one can well imagine a power which
'Can uenr decrease too much, for counteracting, with equalctrengtb, every degree of
resistance. Notwithstanding, Habnemann says, page 213 of the aante •olume, "who- ,
" ever will:OOt i~itakl it exactly II?• ( ! ) will leave u~solv~ this greatest problem of
.., the art; he will leave the most Important long lastmg d1seaaea as uncured, as they
.,, were before my doctrine appeared. If it is not done punctually ( ! j nobody ca1a
'' bout of having followed my advice and expect any effect!" After eome of hie dis-
·ciples had publicly confessed that they were frequently U118Ucceaaful in curing diseases,
since it was imponible ao cure the dieease bf bomreopathie doses, tbough the
drugs were seleck!d according to the preacript1ons of hoiOOlOpathia, (see, for in·
stance, according to Dr. Kopp, I. c. Dr. Hartmann, in Archiv. of Hom. Heilk.
Vol. VIII. No. 2, p. 36), the m-edical pope emitted a warning bull from bis capitol at
Gethen, enjoining his faithful followers " not to di~ce themselves by mixing any
-.. allopathic treatment whatever, but to execute the d1vine homreopathic art pure and
"sincere." (See according to Kopp. I. c. Archiv. f. h. H. Vol. IX. No. 3, 1830.-We
are told by trustworthy men, that if patienta apf.ly to him after they have followed
the advice of eome of hie disciples without relie , Habnemann, with the greatest in•
delicacy attributes their failure• dir~tly to their ignorance and carelessness. Pa·
tienta not relieved by his own treatment, seldom return to him on account of the ex·
-ceesive fees which they are obliged to pay, in~. to hie door-keeper bofore they
are even admitted; one louis t!'or is the least. If the patients 11ubmit, and continue to
complain about the failure of his medicines, fOr which they are also obliged to pay very
high prices,he ascribes itto medicinal induence, to which they musthaveabsolutely been
expoaed, or to a neglect on their part, &c. until they become tired and apply to !lllo-
patbiats. Hahnemann's common-place explanations to hie infatuated patienta, are said
to be sometimes exceedingly ridiculous. We find many specimens of that kind in his
works. Thus, in proving the validity of his maxim, aimilia similibus curantur, by burns
cured with alcohol or spirits of turpentine, which he likewise inconsistently places at
once among his homaopillhie doses ; he applies it to politics, saying, (see Mat. Med.
Vol. II. 2nded. pp. 18 and 19), " and thus we find the great truth confinned by many
•• daily occurrences, thatnature" (now eo beneficial!)" intencla to deliver mankind from
" its wearisome evils by very similar abort ones. Nations, sunk for centuries in gro-
" veiling apathy and base elavery, ele't'Bk! their minds, become sensible to their hu·
"man diinity, and again free, after being trodden by the tyrant of the w~>et into dust."
We cannot explain tllia sentence of the •• great genius," which is prob11bly considered
by his followers as the reaumee of the greatest philosophical as~acity and Sterna-like
wit--otherwise, than that he thinks, ifa people IS long trodden mto dust, an immense
virtue becomes do10eloped, in the IIBIBB tnaJIJler 81 if a grain of llint was rubbed down
with sugar of milk in his mortar. It seems singular, however, that this great politi·
ciao considers an army of 300,000 well armed and disciplined men, with some hun·
dreds of cannon, comingfrom the west, a homreopatbic remedy, to excite, by a aalutary
counter-and·after-operation, a quick, safe and du1able cure.-Deplorable and high-
:spirited Poland, why didst thou not elect Samuel Habnemann thy general en chef!.....
Digitized by Google
244
In respect to the " unheatd of niceties,• of homreopathia, we
must observe, that never since the healing art has existed, have all
drugs been considered to be equal in strength. The greatest
quack bas thought proper to give different doses of different drugs,
as some may be administered by drachma «;~r ounces, and others
only by grains, or even small portions ofa grain. Much less would a
well educated physician consider it a trifle to prescribe opium, bella-
donna, strychnine, &c. as he would Epsom-salts, rhubarb, althea,
&c. without minute regard to the small fractions of a grain. If he,
for instance, prescribed .!.th part ofa grain of strychnine, or.!.th
24 48
part ofa grain of the arseniate of potassa, the ratio of one grain to
these fractions is respectiv~ly, in the first instance, as twenty-four
to one, and in the latter, as forty-eight to one. He will also con-
siderately pay due regard to the age, the sex, the constitution, &c.
of the patient, and will increase or diminish the dose accordingly.
We may suppose that, whenever a judicious physician should wish
to administer a dore of such drugs to an infant, he will reduce
it to the one hundredth part of a grain, where, of course,
the ratio is as one hundred to one. But Hahnemann assigns no
reason why the virtues of his drugs begin to be developed only
at the eighteenth dilution, and continue so until the tbirtieth,
without a properscale of progression, or without any regard to the
partiCular circumstances just alluded to ; he formerly allowed his
followers to choose, ad libitum, between the eighteenth and thirtieth
dilution, that is, between a dose of one with sixty, and one with
thirty-six zeros, since this is just as correct, according to the ele-
ments of allopathic arithmetic, as that the ratio between one-
fourth and one-twelfth, is as twelve to four, or as three to one. If
by the development of the drugs the virtues decrease, then the
ratios can be made inverse, and the ratio of the dose formerly re-
commended. by Hahnemann, is, to the dose prescribed afterwards
by him, as one with thirty-six zeros is to one with sixty. To
say nothing of our earlier demonstration, that, in the very sense of
thiS docttine, the homreopathic doses must not be considered as
very small, but as immensely large, it is evident, that as all magni-
tudes are merely relative and not absolute, and depend therefore
on their ratio to other magnitudes ; in the case before us, th~ im-
mense difference of the number one with sixty zeros, and one with
.
Digitized by Google
t>nly thirty-six zeros, or the absolute number of one.with twenty·
four zeros, is a mere trifle in the eyes of the same men, who
assert that their opposers pay no regard to minutire.
Hahneinann suggests no caution in regard to sex, age, &c. ; he
also is and ever will be, unable to give a minute scale of the differ-.
' '
ent degrees of his dilutions or developed powers, even in round sums
of millions, billions, &c. and much less in their intermediate quan-
tities, which must naturally exist, if the least regard be paid to such
important conditions. Supposing the power to be developed only
at the eighteenth dilution; if it incr~ases, it does not increase from
its first outset by jerks, but, as all powers in nature do, by a gra-
dual and uninterruptedly continued progression; there must,
therefore exist, relatively, an immense number of developed virtues
between the eighteenth and nineteenth, between this and the
twentieth dilution, and so forth, which Hahnemann would have
recommended for the circumstances named: if he could give his
doctrine any consistency. The total disregard of these interme-
diate doses, and still more the transition from the administration of
one drop ofany dilution, to the mere smell of a pellet moistened with
the same dilution, where evidently the quantity of the developed
virtue applied becomes incommensurable, prove the vagueness of
all things connected with this doctrine.
No reasonable cause or experiment can be assigned, which can
explain why the same process, eighteen times repeated, developes
no perceptible power, but ifthe same process be continued, the power
becomes immenselydeveloped in the compouRd ratio ofthe dilutions
by hundreds of drops and by the shakings made; nor why in this
respect all substances are alike, however different they may other-
wise be, as, for instance, arsenic and table salt ; not also why the
doses of these medicines are not affected by the differences of sex,
age, &c.f is it not impossible to imagine, how any product of two
factors can remain always the same, when one of them is con-
siderably changed, or both are altered disproportionately !-Even if
Hahnemann had never explicitly claimed, that the operations of
his developed drug-virtues were always absolute, unconditional, and
the same under all circumstances, in opposition to the changeable
miserable vital powers, these assertions would, merely from this
extraordinary disregard of all circumstances, considered by all men
so important, follow as a matter of course. In Vol. II., page 15, of
his Chronic Dileases, Hahnemann prescribes 200 sugar-pellets to
Digitized by Google
246
be prepared by a confectioner, from one gmio of starch and sugar j
in Vol. IV. page 338 of the same work, 300 from one grain ; in
his Organon, 3d edition, he orders 100 sugar-pellets to be moisten-
ed with one drop of the developed solution ; in the fourth edition of
the same work, §283, he prescribes 300 sugar-pellets, to be moist-
ened with the same ;-here the ratio varies from one to two and
three. In the same rtanner he advises that t1Do m· three sugar-
pellets ofthe same weight and equally moistened should be given,
if one should not appear sufficient; as if his developed virtues were
like the common orders of physicians, who prescribe one or two
table-spoonfuls of a medicine, or from one to three pills, &c. not
aware that his advice at once reduces the immense ratio which
exists between the 18th and 30th developement of his atoms, or
between one and one with 24 zeros, to the ratio between one and
two or three !
In his Organon, §278, page 194, he says, "so powerful is the
"development of the innate virtues of drugs, not thought of before
"my time, that in later years I have been forced, by convincing
" experiments, to reduce the ten shakes, formerly prescribed to
" be made after each dilution, to two."-Here we would, ask and
.with reason : what part does the shaking take in the homreopathic
development of drug-virtues 1 Why must the dilutions be repeated
separately so many times, if the shakings are 80 important, and
why cannot the number of dilutions be less, and be replaced by a
proportionately greater number ofshakings; 80 that the firstdilution,
made by twenty or forty shakings at once, with or without a pro-
portionate quantity of a non-medicinal substance, should be exactly
equal to the ten or twenty dilutions each, made with two shakings
only 1 How can the same drugs, which Hahnemann considers I.e be
eo different in their action on the living human body, that they
make many different drug-symptoms; bow, we say, can these drugs
be considered 80 physically alike, that the virtues of arsenic and
nux vomica, offlint and table salt, &c., are all developed equallyand
to the samedegree,(potenz) by the same number ofshakings, though
again, a few sbakings more or less are considered 80 immensely
important? If there be such a great difference between the present
and former number of pellets made from one grain, and between
the sbakings formerly prescribed by Habnemann and those he has
lately resolved upon; bow many patients of Hahnemaon and hie
followers then have been sent to their long homes, by a treatment
Digitized by Google
247
formerly proclaimed infallible, with the same bold and impudent
cbarlatanism, as the improved mode is now recommended ! How-
ever partial any one may be to this doctrine, infatuated bomreopa-
thists excepted who reject even mathematical certainty, nobody
can consider these different and grossly contradictory s&atements of
Hahnemann, other than as the most. absurd falsehoods..-Those
who implicitly believe in miracles and witchery, who divest them-
selves of all dignity and of the noblest prerogatives of intelligent
beings, by worshipping such a fool or impostor as Samuel Hahoe-
mann, those solely will admit, that a power developed from a
substance might operate with great violence, if taken in the many
thousand billionth part ofa grain only in excess, but that neverthe-
less the degree or potenz of J\ power twice or three times stronger,
developed from the same substance, by the same process, might be
given under the same circumstances without injury, nay ! with the
greatest and most durable benefit, in allowing the use of two instead
of one sugar pellet. Reader, when such men as Dr. Hering
tells you, (see CoAcise View, page 11,) "But Hahnemann was as
"little confounded as was Fulton. For it is indicative of great
" minds undauntedly to persecute a noble design, in defiance of the
" whole world ; the great idea becomes as it were an element of
" their souls ;" forget for a while that one of your countrymen
has lent his pen to translate such stuff, and take a slate and pencil
to compare these ourstatements, faithfully extracted and translated
from Hahnemann's works, with any thing in the world, and you
will easily find that they are much more nonsensical,than ifa lunatic
should assert, that all the gunpowder which has ever existed and
now exists, is insufficient to blast a large rock, but that this may be
done very easily by a power developed in this singular manner from
one grain of it, whilst the power developed by exactly the sam&
process from two or three grains, or a much larger quantity of the
same gunpmoder, would make but little difference, and would not
move an ounce of any additional l'Mistance or weight from its place!
If you can comprehend this, then you may, whea sick, confidently
smell of a sugar-pellet moistened with the thirtieth developed virtue
of ftint or table salt; then you may sip with delight the hom<epathic
chocolate. Who would not again exclaim with us-" Helleboro
"opus est !''-but in large allopathic doses.-" Multa cernunt arus-
" pices; multa augures provident; multa oraculisdeclarantur; multa
"vaticinationibus; multa somnis; multa portentis."-Cicero.
_ o;9~ized by Google
248
In accordance with reason and experience we may therefore
assert, that the hom<eOpathic doses- and the developed drog-virtoes
areahlolute nonentitie1. Hence we cannot wonder, that not only the
statements of Hahnemann's opposen, who have either themselves
tried homreopathic prescriptions, or have seen them tried by ho-
mreopatbists, bot also those of honest homreopathists, who were
cautions not to deceive themselves and the public by withholding
the truth, in secretly using allopathic medicines and doses,• vary
very much from the presumed infallibility of this method. Besides
the many instances which we have already stated, and the frequent
retractions and changes of Habnemann himself, which we have
quoted from his works, Dr. Gross, one of Hahnemaon's disci-
ples, and one of the first and most distinguished champions of ho-
mmopathia in Germany, complains very much, (Arch. f. h. Heilk.
vol. viii. no. 3. p. 9. according to Dr. Kopp, I. c.) that the lung
time required for homreopathic cures, may be considered as a great
inconvenience. The same periodical, devoted solely to the exten-
sion of homreopathia in Germany, contains manystatements where
homreopathic physicians have been compelled to recur to oJlotjxr
tkic treatment.
To say nothing more of the humbugs and falsehoods pub-
lished by bare-faced homreopathists, though notoriously coatra-
dicted.by their own brethren, diseases Jike intermittent fevers, ge-
neraJJy so easily and safely cured by the physicians of any good
school, are confessedly treated on the homreopathic method without
success, by Drs. Gross, Rummel, and Hauptmann, all of whom are
distinguished homreopatbic practitioners and authors; though these
diseases, and their similarity with the symptoms of the drug-dis-
ease produced by Peruvian bark in healthy persons, must be con-
sidered as the very matrix ofall the monstrous and abortive pro-
ductions of Hahnemann and his doctrine. The same is stated
publicly by other homreopathists, in regard to pulmonary con-
sumption; though Hahnemann considers it so easily, quickly,
an~ safely curable by the potenzised virtue developed from tin.
In a manner very unusual for him, though be could not well evade
" The Berlin Medicat Gazette for 1882, and other German medical periodicals,
contain many such instances; and in some cases also physicians, who pledged their
faith to their patients strictly to follow the prescriptions of the new healing art, either
proved by tbeir recipes, or have avowed to us,' tliat they commonly use allopatbie
doses. The inconvenience of combining allopathic practice with honu:epathic l?ril\
ciples hasalready been stated, as leading to the rudest empiricism.
Digitized by Google
249
it when introducing his " great truth" about the itch, he statet.
candidly, (Archiv. £ h. H. vol. viii. no. 3. p. 97, according to
Kopp, 1. c.) that in inveterate chronic diseases the treatment may
Jast; on an average, from one to two!Jearl, before the cu~e maybe
expeeted. Soon after he confesses again, in his last work, (ChroD.
Diseas. 1828, vol. i. p. 6 and 6. that the homceopathie mode f)(
treatment pursued by him hitherto, (that is, &om 1806 anti118SS)
in conformity with the " Jaw of nature !" Atufailed mtill c1wtmie
dUeMu of an!J impOrtance, (to whom is a disease not important?)
syphilis excepted, though this mode had been rued long anti fiJitl
tie greatut e:cactitutk, and though the patients themselves had
'also faifltfuliJJ oblef'fJed tke mi1rutelt preleriptioru, strict diet, ete~
onlythe commencement ofthe treatment proved satisfactory, bottlie
progress to recovery less so, tmtil at last all /wpel ofree0fJtf11dil-
appettred." And he continues in preciltl!J the following words:
" The frequent relapses made.at last the best selected hOIIl<SOpa•
" thic remedies aDd the most appropriate doses the more usele&s;
" the more they were repeated : they at last scarcely atforded any
" relief wllatever."-Ail these statements he made a few yean
after his deelaration, so often repeated by himself and by all 1M
adtterents and admirers, (for instance, Mat. Med. 2d edit. }824,
voJ. ii. p. 26. when he was already eight years in fuU labour with
his " great truoth ;" and in his Organon, §§ 19, 65, and 156~ ae•
eerding to Kopp, I. c. p. 287.) that " nobody will be cured from
" ftis disease byany other but the homreopatbic method, in an easy,
"qu,iek, and safe manner."
We must remark, that these confessions of Hahnemaon and of
tM most devoted disciples were made when he, as we have M!en;,
i~sisted upon the observance ofstrict die"tetic rules, by which alone
many ol their patients have recovered. As Hahnemnn, in the
last'edition of his doctrine, remits to his patients a large part of
ltis former dieteticat prescriptions, we may expect tTom hi~ in
future, omch Jess favourable reports, in regard to the &equeney
of his safe, quick, and dul'able cures, provided he Jnres lon~
enotrgh itr " Iris youthfulvigour," to benefit the world with.another
·" great trofl'r," by which he wiU be forced.again to·repeal andre-
tracf some more-ofhis infallible precepts and statemeats.-Minute
dietetical directions llave been formerly the only and tnlly beue--
8eial part ofthe homreopathic practice, aad' must have cured many
32
Digitized by Google
250
who had'long suffered from a rude treatment, which, disregarding
the great influence of many habitual and congenial agents, consi·
dered, next to the lancet, large bottles and boxes of medicine its
oldy resource ; rational medicine, however, bas never regarded
strict diet as eonsisting solely in starvation, as Dr. Hering (C. V.
p• .26). states: but in a proper selection and quantity offood, drink,
exercise, etc. ; a few obstinate chronic diseases ofthe reproductive
system except~;d, where starvation must be recognised as the great-
est remedy. .
Hahnemann being, as it appears from vol. i~ p. 189 of his Chr.
Dis. much annoyed by the reproaches of his opposers, who attri-
buted the recovery ofsome of his patients solely to his strict diet-
ing system; and many patients having become tired ofabstaining
for years from their usual pleasures and comforts, he has resolved
to insist no longer upon these measures, which he formerly thQught
so indispensable. Dr. Kopp, (1. c. p. 157) states, that ruost of
his homooopathically treated patients objected to the severe diet-
eti~ prescriptions, though be could not dispense with 1bem, being
the most essential part ofthe homreopatbic treatment. The strict
diet must have been, moreover, too redolent of rational medicine
forHahoemann, and particularly unimportant to him, who was un-
willing to share with any thing the merits of his discoveries and the
unconditional salutary operations of his developed drug-virtues.
-Reflecting patients, treated by homreopathists, and knowing
that they received only one atom of a drug every four or six weeks,
which was considered fully sufficient n~t only to combat a long
and _serious disease, but also to counteract aiJ external intluences
of nature, ofthe mind, and the many other vicissitudes oflife, m~st
also have thought it strange, that the restrictions from their usual
innocent habits, nourishment, etc. provided these were not parti-
cularly noticed as remedial substanJ:es, should be so necessary in
support of the operations of atoms, said to be omnipotent; they
must.also have known the many facts acknowledged by rational
physicians, that serious diseases sometimes disappeared and were
radicaiJy cured by a proper diet, without any medical assistance.
Habnemann,. whose confidence began to decrease since he pub-
lished his work on Chr. Dis. and his false prophecies about the
Asiatic c;holera, was therefore anxious to.give a · new impalse to
hiJ doctrine, by making his treatment more palatable to his pa-
Digitized by Google
251
tieots : hence he and his faithful adherents now released their
patients from the inconveniences of a strict diet ; the retiaeditJl
agent8 excepted, particularly when these are required to play their
part as scape-goats.
Hahnemann's constant exertions to discredit and reject aJI expe-
rience hitherto valued by the medical profession generally, though
he himself adhered to the rudest allopathia for the greatest part
'of his professional life, are very remarkable, and may offer to the
impartial observer additional proofs, that his object is not love of
truth and humanity, but only petty egotism. What otherwise
could have made him~ as we have seen, so opposed to the use ofall
external remedies; not only of bleeding, leeching, cupping, but
also of blistering, injections, remedial baths, ointments, cata,..
pla.sms, etc. and even ofthe most important and indispensable sill'-,
gical 9perations; as for instance, the aid of surgery for hernia'
ioguioalis, fistula ani, etc. etc. The admission ofthese remedies
would evidently not have curtailed the merits of his doctrine, and
would have been more worthy of a reformer of the beali.,g art,
who is termed, by his missionary in the new world, " the first phy-
" sician who recognised it as indispensable in every distWe, &o
" regard mao as a whole."
Hahoemann's course appears still more absurd, ifwe read in.
§§ 287, 288, 289, and 290 of his Organon, (4th edit.) among si-
milar correct remarks :-" Each part of our body, if possessed of
" the power of feeling, can receive the induence of medicines and
" communicate their powers to all the other parts;" and " ev.eo
" those parts which have lost their proper sense, for instance, .
" the tongue and palate, which have lost their taste, the nosewhich ·
" has lost its smell, impart the power of medicines not Jess com-
" pletely to all the other organs of the body. Even the external
" surface of the skin is not insensible to the reception of remedies,
" especially of liquid ones," etc.•
"The rogue and fool by fits are fair and wise." Singular enough! that here likewise
tbi. extraordinary man is so adverse to truth and common sense, that be cannot con-
ceal hie anxious desire immediately to retract and to annihilate any truth which may
involuntarily have slipped from hie pen, few be states on the same page, that the
resorption of mercury from frictions with mercurial ointment is very doubtful.-Ia thu
doubtful which has been daily confirmed for centuries, by innumerable instances !
bow does mercury enter the system of nurses, who have merely attended patients sa-
livated by mercurial inunction1 Such cases are known to many, and hue occurred
Ulld~r our own observation. Is this metal, which so many times is distlnclly faund in
the large masses of saliva, ejected by salivation from mercDrilll inunc!ioa, and whicl!,
as trustworthy observers report, is even found in the blood and the bones of such pa-
tients, perhaps in Hahnemann's eyes, merely a fiction of the "overrefined" chemiltat
Digitized by Google
252
We always c:oDSidered &be ll&e ofexternal_remedies, even before
the eadermic method was known, as so highly importaDt, that ia
general we would rather renounee all internal than all e%temal
remedies. Many diseases of the reproductive, and especially o(
the lymphatic system, when the functions of the digestive organs
are disturbed, and cannot bear medicine, as calomel for instance,
without didiculty, or with still greater injury, are only to be
cured by the external use of mercurial ointment, or- similar medi-
cated baths. Hopeless cases ofscarlet fever, the most dangerous
a6ctions of the brain after external violence, in typhus fever, in
hydrocephalus, etc. are cured by cold infusions, and by applying
c:overings of pounded ice to the bead ; net to mention the indis·
peosable use of bleeding, leeches, injections, blisters, etc.-Since
the endenuic method has been adopted by the profession, the va-
lue ofthe external application of medicines is recognised still more
aod promises the greatest results. Ifwe consider that by this mode
the functions of the stomach, digestion, etc. which it is so import-
ant to preserve in most diseases, are no longer disturbed by medi·
cines, and that these are reciprocally not so much changed in their
chemical properties and effects, by the action and in1lnence of the
digestive organs and all the different mightily decomposing diges-
tive juices ; we may justly expect from this method much greater
and also materially different reaults in the operation ofdrugs upon
tbe human body ; for the skin, as an excretory and assimilative
organ, is, next to the lungs, the most important to the human eco-
nomy; and being so extensive and so ·rich in lymphatic vessels,
oerves, etc. it receives, more than almost any other part of the
body, the greatest variety of immediate impressions from abroad.
Weshould thinkthat these considerations would have been much
more important to Hahnemann and to his adherents, than, com-
pcuatively, to other professional men, if the former were really
anxious for the improvement of the profession,as they would open
to them a new and interesting mode of testing the correctness of
the homreopathic maxim, similia sirnilibus curantur, by using en-
dermically si01ple drugs for experiments on healthy persons. But
no! our new prophet Sainuel is worse than Mahomet, since the lat-
ter has, at least, acknowledged other prophets; whereas the former
regards every thing not conceived by his morbid fancy and not
hatched by his miserable charlatanism, as false and worthless.-
• I
Digitized by Google
253
Thus he ridicules and despises also the use of the most powerful
and salutary drugs, for which the profession is 80 highly indebted
to modern chemistry, such as quinine, morphine, strychnine, etc.
saying explicitly, on 9269 of his Organon, 5th edit. that" to use
")them is foolish, unless it is iatended to destroy quickly the lives
" of men and animals."
Instead of directing his attention to the homreopatbic use of the
large stock of valuable drugs, which the profession already ~
sesses, be bas attended particularly, either to substances hitherto
considered by all chemists and physicians as destitute of remedial
properties, such as 6int, sepia, etc. or to those useful only for domes-
tic purposes, as table salt, or also to those deservedly considered as
obsolete, such as Drosera rotundifolia, '£huya oceidentalis, &e.-
This singularity becomes still more evident, whenwe oompare, in
his Mnt. ~·and Chr. Dis., his trials with drugs, coll8idered by the
physicians of all ages as the most powerful and efficacious, with
those newly introduced and picked out by him, from ancient and
obscure authors on Materia Medica. Thus he mentions only sixty
symptoms of drug-sicknedS produced by Rhubarb, seventy by Digi-
talis, o11e hundred and seventy-five by Camphor, one hundred aod
thirty by Iodine, seventy-five by Stramonium, four hundred and
thirty by Arsenic, &e. but from his partictdar drugs, as Silieia, five
hundred and sixty-five, Lycopodium eight hundred and ninety,
Chareoal nine hundred and thirty, Table Salt eight hundred and
ninety-five, Sepia one thousand two hundred and forty, and from
his old pet and scape-goat, Belladonna, one thousand four b\lPdred
and forty.-Had hereally intended to promote medical knowledge
and truth for the benefit of his fellow-men, and not merely for his
miserable vanity and vile interest, he would have attended to the
drugs in general use, and suggested a. better mode of employing
them, to prevent many mistakes, 80 murderous in his eyes ; this
course would have afforded him and his followers a field of inves-
tigation, much more ample and honorable than that of bunting
after new drugs, which will never be wanted, or which are em.
ployed 110 seldom, that they are not even mentioned in m01t phar-
maeopreias ; as, for instance, Acetate of Manganese. ,
But Hahnemann and his followers cry, facts! facts! and Dr.
Hering also exclaims, with his usual pathos, on the last page of
his panegyric, " The Americans demand facts, and on these we
"can confidently and securely rest for our support." With this
implicit reliance upon facts only, it must appear very strange that
Digitized by Google
254
the same author has reserved for his never-failing new healing art,
in the cunning manner of his party, som~ very large allowances
in regard to some individual cases, which may prove unfavorable
to his homreopathic treatment, remarking that " the new healing
s' art is not to be judged by its success in isolated cases only, but
" according to its success in general, its innate truth and the incon-
~' trovertible nature of its fundamental principles." It appears,
indeed, very singular, that the same mao, who denounces in the .
most wanton and assuming spirit and language of his master and
brethren, all theoretical reasoning in medicine, and even rejects as
s: learned lumber," all medical theories suggested previously to his
new professional creed, speaks, in the same breath, of innate trutk
and the incontrovertible natureofits fundamental principles! Any
one who reads this and similar expressions, interspersed at random
for the edification ofthose, who either do not understand, or do not
confine their attention when reading such a pamphlet, would really
thif!k that homreopathia rests more on the principles and dictates of
the human understa01.ling than any other conjectural doctrine what-
ever, nay ! on the certainty of mathematical calculation itself, and
that henceforth, if men die before the age of eighty, unless killed
by accidental violence, it will be only because they did not apply
in time to a faithful homreopathist, or because this one has made
some gross error in consulting his drug-and-disease-symptoms-dic-
tionaries.
Having attePlpted to examine wherein the innate truth andin-
controvertible nature ofHahnemannism consists, we would humbly
ask the author of the Concise View and his brethren, if the public
is told not to rely on isolated eases with regard to their new heal-
ing art, but only on ita success in general; in what manner this
success in general could be incontrovertiblyascertained or substan-
tiated, when ~hey decline to stand the test of isolated cases '!-
It may justly be expected, that men who, with their implicit faith
in their master's dictates, believe with him, that before ho'lltao-
pathia existed, among hundreds ofpatients, only one was cured
by his good fortune; that men who worship tenets, opposed to
all the laws of the human understanding and of nature, as
oracles j who deny all facts acknowledged for upwards of 2000
years, although they are confirmed by evet·y physician of only a
moderate practice, &c., should feel particularly obliged to prove
their genera,l success. If homreopathists object to many reason-
.ahle customs and usa~es, and substitute for them "unheard of
Digitized by Google
265
,; niceties;" they will nevertheless hardly succeed in changing tL•
old custom, that in equit", the accu!fed party cannot be their own
judges, and that the veracity of assertions is not to be decided
merely by those interested in them, but by judges, witnesses and
umpires, who !!hall weigh conscientiously all the faets and circum•
stances of the case.
In our humble exertions to vindicate our native and to benefit·
our adopted country, we feel particularly entitled to ask for tho
valid testimonies of a general sticcess of the homreopatbic treat-
ment, as we have sufficiently proved that. the statements of it.B
success in Europe, made in this country, ate; incorrect ; and that
their authors, if not intentionally, certainly from.party spirit and
from want of sufficient information, substitute for truth their im-
plicit faith and their extravagant fancies and hopes. It would be
exceedingly difficult for hommopathists to prove the general success
of their m~tbod, even if many of the largest hospitals had beert
attended exclusively by homreopathists for at least twenty-five
years past; but to our knowledge, there exists not the smallest
public hospital in the whole world, which is partly and much lee&
exclusively confided to a hommopathisL• Many distinguished
* Since the above linea were written, wr have seen a prospectoe for pobliehing, by
subscription, the library of homreopathia, signed by Dr. Hering and J. G. Weeselhceft
of Philadelphia, and a supplement ofthese proposals by Dr. Ch. F. Matlack of the same
city. It wasto be expected that the author ofthe Concise View,, which had aUbat time
already been published in Philadelphia, for about nine months, without being duly
noticed by the profession, would persuade himself that his pamphlet enjoys general
approbation from the American public, and would persevere in hie usual manner to eay
summarily, that his new art of healing continues rapidly to spread over the whole ot
Europe, and particularly of Germany; without referring to any other authority than to-
the few. obscure men ofhia party. But we could not have expected that the Ameri-
can champion of homceopathia, not satisfied with the aid be has offered to the admired
doctrine by his translation of the Concise View into his native language, should
follow the same course in communicating statements to his countrymen, which be can
only know from hearsay, and which he is unable to support by any reference to credit-
able public documents. It is true that a small homreopathic hospital has recently been-
eetablishedat Leipzig; but as far as we know, not at the expense of any public autho-
rity, as Dr. Matlack appears to believe. About 2000 dollua bad been collected from
his friends and disciples, for ita erection, in the year 1829, at the celebration of the
50th anniversary of Hahnemann'a graduation. Up to the end of March, 1832, there
bad been received 34 patients in all, of whom 20 had been cured, 1 diad, and 1&
remained under treatment, according to the statements of the hospital pb_ysiciana,.
publishe(in the Jahrbuecher der homreopatbiacben Heil-und Lehr-Anetal~ zu Leipzig~
No. 1. That it is a private hospital is also evident by Dr. Matlack'a ow11atatement,.
that it is supported by the voluntary contributions from patiente reeto:ed to health by
the new art, Whoever knows the condition of Germany, and eepecially of Leipzig
and ita neighborhood, in regard to public benevolent institutiona, will not believe that
patiente, who had to pay heavy fees for treatment, would after their recovery contri-
bute to a private inatitution, which the poor do not want.on account ofthe excellent and.
luge public hos(litals provided for them. Would Dr. Matlack, when joining perhapa-
witb aome of bra colleague• in establishing a private hospital for about a dozen pa-
tients yearly, think that it will offer to the public satisfactory evidence of the general>
Digitized by Google
I
~
256
medical authors, and among others Dr. Stieglitz, in his late work
quoted above, have remarked, that it never has been minutely
ascertained by unquestionable facts, what medical system, school,
or method of treatment, has proved to be the most successful ill
curing dieeases; still of course, every general mode ofmedical treat-
ment, whether based on a distinct theory or not, from Hippocrates,
Galen and Paraeelsus, down oo Brown, Broussais and Habnemann,
claims to he more smeessful than all others. Though we have
proved by their own statements, that in many diseases homc;eopa-
thists are less successful than other practitioners; although, in self-
puffing, some of them excel even their illustrious master; still, ifwe
would allow them to be relatively more successful than otbere,
they could not satisfaetorily substantiate the same by facts, until
lhe procentages of recoveries by all the other methods. are exactly
ascertained; and as this has hitherto been impossible, or neglected,
ofcourse all the preferences claimed for hom<eopathia, 811 well as
for any other method of medical treatment, most remain vague
and undetermined.-A few voices from the tombs would soon settle
all these professionalcontroversies; but as they will ~rever remaio
dumb, there is no other mode of determining this important point,
~~~ecess ofhomili!Opathia1 Still morElvoid of all truth ie his statement,that the medical
M&fl'efthe Pruaaian armyispartlycomposed oh numerous bodyofhommopathic phy-
sieiana. h may be, that some few individuals of this corps, which stands higb in the
prefeaM<In, eecretly adhere to this medical superstition, but we ean positively assert,
;md challeftge the author and all his hommopathic brethren to prove tbe contrary, that
ill alt the leeturea and examinations in the Prusaian univeraities, as well aa in its
military medical' schools, not the alighteat regard is paid to hommopllthia. All the
diatingnisbed profeaaora, chief surgeons and physicians in PrusaiA, publicly ridicule
homeeopathia, whenever they have opportunity to do so, as might be expected from
mensewell educated- Thismay he proved not only indirectly, byDr. Hering's exceed-
ingly ridiculoualamento, in his Concise View, that "the kinga and princes of Europe
"impede this new art by processes, penalties and even bayonets,'' but also by the
Berlin Medical Gazette, Horn'• Archiv. and other German periodicals. It is likewise
an error, that the King of Prussia baa ordered that homreopathia Rhould he freely
practised in the alma-house at Berlin; becauae, to our knowledge, no such explicit
direction baa ever been published, and the large hospital, lA Charite, but not the alme-
houae at Berlin, ie still the place where poor patients are treated ; the public report&
of the former however, contain not the least account of homceopathia. The latest
regulations ofthe Austrian government again forbid hommopathi11to be pr11ctised in the
army, after the trials publicly instituted at Vienna proved abortive, as we have stated
abo't'e.-We hope the publication ofthe complete library of Hahnemann's works may
succeed. Nothing would more contribute, if they are faithfully translated, to do
joatice to our statements and remarks respecting this new art of healing, ita author
and hie followers, and to open the eyes of the profession as well as of the enlightened
people ofthis country to this subject ; though, in our opinion, there are very few, if
Any, medical works, from which the medica[ student, the practitionerorany one might
not extract ten times as much good information 118 from all Hahnemann's worb
together, the uaeful warning excepted, which they richly ofler, showing how far men,
who claim the confidence of the public to their professional talents and care, are led
utray from all c0111mon sense, ill neglecting and despising the afe grownd of human
intelleet and experience,.
D1g1tized by Google
257
~xeept to try foe at least tweaty-five years all diverse methods o(
medical .treatment, particularly those emphatically recommended
by the framers of new medical systems, in the same manner as
homatopatbia was t.ried for a short time in a military hospital, by
ordec of the Russian government. The governments of populoua
oequntries o~tgbt also to demand yearly from each physician, a
minute report of his treatment in each case, with a detailed state-
ment of its result; they also ought to inquire minutely by
what mQde, and 9y what physician&, those have been treated
who died, without any previous violence,• under seventy years of
age. Should such a course be enforced, and faithfully pursuerl for
about fifty successive yearlil, and its results be published fre
quent.ly, with the stri~~~t impartiality, after being canvassed
and reviewed :by distiqgui~~ medical colleges. then, but only
thel\, could we con~u4e witb e<>JDe degree of probability, which
method was relatively the beet, or rather whieh bas proved tG
be the least detrimeotal.t Single facts hav.e been and will evel"
be eQnaidered by the mass of tb~ people as tbe strongest arguments ·
in regard to professional acquirements, as well as to ar~:nna or quack
medicines. The econemyofthe living human body, its multifarious
aatural dispositiaos, tbe great variety and number of changes in
* To the weekly t>eports of deaths in every large city or eonoty, containiag the
.different names of diseases, should be added, if not the names of the attending physi-
eiane, (which.might perhape caoee a very beneficial competition;) at leaet, the method
of treatment in short scientific terms; thus for instance; scarlet-feller or belladonna-
·aiekness treated by a homreopathist, gastro-enteritis by a Brouseaiaist, ~e.
t We say explicitly. "with some degree of. probability.'' under fhe impression that,
if medicine is not void of all certainty:, the best method of tre11tment must finally be-
.eome evident by the improTement in the beatthy condition ofthose persons, who punc-
tually follow the advice of their phyaician in regard to the prevention of diseases, an4.
also by the relative majority ofquick and durable cures, especially if the medical prac-
tice ill founded on rational physiological and patbogenetical principle•. With the
!atter restriction, individual cases.cannot offer any argument in respect to the acquire-
ments and talents of a physici~n: The greatest quack may c~re pa~ienta, and the
meet learned ud talented .physlcl811 may loee some ;-non est m me4•co semper te-
levetur utmger.-Many methods of medical treatment, however, the leading principles
ofwhich are less rational, frequently prove, by the aatural talent of the physician.
provided he is well educated, more beneficial than more rational principles without
the natural talent of the physician; homreopathia excepted, which is, as we have
endeavoured eoncluaively to prove, nothing b11t the utmost methodus expectativa, or
the pure self-treatment ofnature in diseases. His not the system, method or school,
which fonns the good physician, but hie general good education, his zealous IOTe
for truth, hispbilahthropical devotedness to his vocation, and particularly his natural
·talent, by wh1ch he will know best11ow to manage and to improve ·every method or
eyetem, or rather by whieh he will best .onderstand how to use or to reject them al-
~ogether; a mode which, in the healing art likewise, cannot be taught, but depende
on an innate disposition, which embraces many peculiarities.-Galen says therefore.,
•ery correctly, " multa aunt in praxi, q11m ntc dici nee scribi poesunt ;" and the
upreasjon, " medicos nascitur" is no less correct than the oW proverb, '' ·poi'.ta
•• naecitur." ·
Digitized by Google
its coooitione, lhe etill greaklr multiplicity of all external imluenees
upon body and mind, the immense multitude of various combina-
tions of all those single in6uences, &c. will naturally produce an
immense variety ofcases, all of which differ, more or less materially;
and if the most active physician should live thousands of years,
each hour might present to him new cases, in which he could not
honestly predict, with certainty, the beneficial or detrimental result
of a certain treatment, or of a definite drug.
Hence every enlightened physician will candidly confess, that
the results of his exertions are uncertain, and exceptingthe absolute
action ofa poison, there is no treatment, no substance or drug, which
will certainly cure a patient, or which, if constantly applied for a
length oftime to many, suffering by similar or widely different dis-
eases, \Vould not allow them to recover, (post hoc;) nay! would not in
some cases even promote a radical cure, by what we must term in
consequence ofour confined means for minute investigation, chance,
(propter hoc). This accounts for the long continuance of so many
prejudices and errors with professional and unprofessional men, and
for the singular fact, that people, be they ever so much en-
lightened and cautious against impositions, when not guarded
against such injuries by the wise laws of a good medical police,
continue to pay high for all kinds pf qua'ck medipines. We may
· justly suppose that, unless the latter proved beneficial in some cases,
people would certainly not continue to use them, notwithstanding
the tricks of the venders. Forced to resort in many cases to quack-
medicines, in consequence of the bad state of practical medicine,
and of the charlatanism of many ignorant doctors, the people are
well aware that the medicine recommended for ~es, frequently
so palpably different, is like a chance' in a lottery, in which blind
accident only throws out "to a few individuals the prize, but to a
"thousand the blanks," (see C. V. p.28); do they not however often
purchase blanks of physicians at much higher prices1
It is too important not to repeat it here again : can a re6ecting
public consistently confide in a treatment called methodical, if the
same remedies are prescribed in the same order from beginning to
end, in cases and under circumstances widely different ; if they
see their doctors depend upon cenain empirical rules for all cases,
or follow the prescription of their text-books more anxiously, and
without regard to individual circumstances, than an intelligent
uadesman would follow the rules of b~ tra.de 'J Must it nc;>t be evi,
Digitized by GoogIe
dent to all judicious men, that they run .much less risk of being
sacrificed, or ofsuffering their strength and constitution to bebroken,
when they leave nature to herselfor take an innocent quack medi-
cine, than when they are, by an orthodox medical doctrine, or by a
rude empiricism, first- reduced to the utmost by bleeding, leeching,
eupping, blistering, vomiting, purging, &e., and afterwards, when
almost unable to digest the mildest food, are pampered with quinintl)
bark, opium, &c., or perhaps subjected to hazardous experiments
with strong doses of such drugs, as prussic acid, iodine! 8trychnine,
&e. Who can prove to them positively which system or method
of medical treatment offers the least number of blanks in propor-
tion to the P-rizes 1 Will, or can veracious homc:eopathists candidly
S®Ure to them prizes only 1 How can this be, if they themselves
refer not to individual cases, but to generalsuccess, which they are,
and will ever be unable to prove 1 Does the author of the Concise
View really think, that his repeated assurances, for instance on
page 25, " injury cannot indeed result from a false selection ; for
" it is soon to be .discovered, and is free from all dangerous·conse-
" quences to the patient," or when speaking ofhomreopathic doses,
on page 28, " When no relief whatever is possible, they do no in-
" jury," &c., will or can make a favorable impression on any per-
son of sound judgment ? If he and his brethren discatd all nega-
tive injury, or the natural consequences arising from ne~ect, the
· common sense of others will nevertheless consider it as highly im-
portant. No vender of a quack-medicine would assert~ if be under-
stands his business, that it never injures but is always betreficial, be-
cause, in doing so, he might expect that idiots only would purchase
his stuff, since ~ost people would judiciously conclude, that what
can never do harm can also .do DO good. Such ou'trageous puffs
will be ineffectual with Americans, and may be told more success-
fully to the inhabitants "of Egypt, the land of monsters, and of the
" sanguinary gold-coast.''-" 'fhe American people demand facts,»
but certainly very different ,ones from those which homceopathia
ean offer, especially when its high-gifted adepts renounce the test
of individual cases, and advert to 1he investigation of " its innate
" truth, and the incontroverti~le nature of its fundamental prin-
" ciples." We have not the good fortune to be a native of this out
adopted country, but we think " the ConciseView" to be any thing
hut courteous to this free and happy nation, since all its features
appear more calculated to infatuate an uncivilized and euperltitiou•
Digitized by Google
people, than to make a dignified impression upon the countrymen
of a Washington, Franklin, Jefferson, and so many others, whose
brilliant talents and characters reflect the greatest honour on
their country. If the Americans should be contented with mere
facts, without investigating whether these facts are only accidental,
without any relation to, or dependence upon, some existing cause,
(statements sensu latiori) ; or without relying upon causes, as the
necessary conditions of definite facts, (species facti, or facts sensu
l!ltrictiori), they would be as credulous and superstitious as all un-
civilized people are; they would have remained satisfied with
those objects only which nature has granted them, and would
continue to be tributary for what the skill and talents of other
people ofter them. But as they have long since emerged from
this state of infancy, and have attained the vigour of manhood,
they are not contented with naked facts only, but are anxious
closely to examine the different causes from which the true one
is to 8e selected ; desirous to ascertain the real connexion between
causes and effects, they prefer rational investigation to a rude
senseless empiricism, in order to become, as far as possible, disen-
thralled from the chances of accident, and to derive, from the
same cause, all othereffects which its natureadmits. In consequence
of this rational course adopted by the Americans, they have de-
vised a plan for atmospheric electricity to pass down their dwell-
ing~'~ without injury; they have shortened the intercourse between
distant places to a degree which would have appeared to our an-
cestors as a vision, and advance daily in a manner almost unpa-
ralleled in the numerous branches of industry and commerce.
We confidently trust, therefore, that, some doctors excepted, not
one American will henceforth be duped by homreopathia, after be-
coming more intimately acquainted with the bearings of its max-
ims, and the superstitious features ofits practice. People, deficient
in common sense and education, or otherwise disposed by their
morbid fancy, to credulity and superstition, may be dazzled by
emphatic references to facts, and may, when gazing at the ascent
of a balloon or a feather, consider it as a fact contrRry to the
laws of gravity! fools may be imposed upon with the painted dial
of a hollow plaything1 when told that it will be as useful as the
best timepiece, because it is a fact, that both coincide together 732
times in one year, at the minute and second ;-a ratio which is
much greater than many rude medical treatment. or the use of
Digitized by Google
261
quack-medicines will prove to be in proportion to their failure11 ;
lunatics only will believe, ifa mosquito lights on a rock, weighing
millions of pounds, and this rock falls to the ground, that the mos-
quito caused its fall!-Reader,you scorn otsmileattheseextravagant
comparisons! take a slate and a pencil, and the most simple
arithmetical calculation will prove even the latter ofthese instances
to be a million times more entitled to probability, and, therefore,
also, to the term fact, than that the thirtieth ~omreopathic dilution
of flint, table-salt, arsenic, &c. or that even the 1500th dilution of
sulphur would .affect in the least any mortal being upon our
planet I _
With tefe~nce to these remarks about the reliance upon " ge·
" neral success," we do not for a moment doubt that many patients
will ·recover after a faithful homreopathic treatment, and that, at
the next anniversary meeting of the respected homreopathic so-
ciety at Philadelphia, the duly verified reports of many marvellous
cures performed by bomreopatbists, will have arrived from aU quar·
ters ofthis country likewise, and even of cases where peri!Ons have
been rescued from the very verge of the grave by this new art of
healing.* We confidently expect, that, in general, roo.re patients
will be permitted to reCOfJer by this mode, than by many other
methods of medical treatment hitherto pursued by some doctors.
Many patients will be negatively saved by it, whose constitutions
are strong enough to combat the disease itself, but not the addi-
tional consequences of a medical ill-treatment, generally ten times
worse than the disease.t The negative beneficial results of the
homc:eopathic treatment will be still greater in countries,·where
* Our anticipation• ezpreued at the beginning of this year hne not been realized.
The first anniversary of this "beneficent eoc:iety" paued over, at leut without any
literary eclat, strong enough to e:rtend beyond the walls of the meeting-place of the
homalOpathic propaganda there. We eagerly e:rpect the eecond anniversary, when.
the whole nllmber of all the miraculous hom~eopathic cures in the new world will be
.eported to the public.
t Every haunt 'phyaician will candidly confess, that in many cases, nature left to·
herself, re11tablishes even patients, considered as hopeless by them,and lhat often.when
he followed one of hie colleagues in atlen~ance, and credit wu given to him for the
cure, it belonged much more to the well directed meaeores of his predeceaeor than
to him, who only quietly awaited the effect ofmedicine• given before. As a very
striking inatance ofthe advantagee of&he methodoe e:rpectativa, we remember a phy-
sician of immanae profeeeionallearning, but who had not the JUdgment indispensably
required to manage the e:rtraordinary meanaafforded to him by his diligent researches,
which were moat favorably seconded by an almost unparalleled memory. In conse·
quence of his incapacity to select from the stock of his knowledge the means proper
for the individual case, he at laet preecribed in all cues, almost nothing else but eome
gruel of ulep-root, arrow-root, &c., acidulated with phosphoric, or some other acid,
and only differently colored byeome other innocent ingredienta. He however cured
many patienta, and enjoyed ~eat con6denc41 in his e:rtenaive practice ; especially be·
cauae he, though very restricted in bia judgment, wu considered to be an eJOtraer·
Digitized by Google
humao life is every moment at stake, from the bad state of pbar~
macy, and the legal irresponsibility of the apothecaries, by which
the best prescriptions of the well educated and judicious physicians
are frustrated, and eve~ frequently rendered highly detrimental.
In this respect we are zealous advoeates of homc:eopathia. Our
remarks about homreopathic doses show that, whatever may be
the bearings of its other maxims, it is utterly foolish to think,
that all the homreopathists who have existed, now exist and may
exist, even if the world should be blessed with them for many cen-
turies to come, could do the least injury to any mao, provided tbey
follow strictly the tenets and prescriptions of the third maxim of
their doctrine. The eighteenth, and still less the thirtieth dilu-
tiou of any known drug, simple or compound, selected homreopathi-
.eally, enantiopathieally, allopathieally, or empirically, be it Arsenic,
Strychnine, Bohon upas,&.e., or a mixture of these strongestpoisons,
would probably injure no living creature on our globe, from the
Mastodon, if it still should exist, down to the smallest microscopic
infusory worm or insect, unless the latter might, perchance, be
drowned in the drop of liquid dilution, as in so much water or milk.
Hanging the term HOM<EOPATHIA, written in the same form
as the charm ABRACADABRA,* round the neck or elsewhere, will
dinary wise man, by hie ability to use enctly the printed -tllncee and words of the
many works which he constantl)' read ; and because also he judiciously avoided all
controversies about abstract subjects. This and other similar men, remind 11e of the
late distinguished member of Congrees, John Randolph ef Roanoke, wbo on once
hearing one of hie friends say of a man, justly celebrated as the greatest polyhistor
of this country, "there goes the American encyclopedia;" replied, " ay ! but it has
lost ita index."-Such men are as neceeaary intbe sciences, as laborers are for the ar-
chitect, they facilitate much the endeavors of truly talented men to promote the dif-
ferent branches of aciences to which they have devoted tbemaelvel-88 phyliciana
they mostly injure, likewise only negatively, or by neglect. They deserve all, when
departed from this world, the known witty epitaph, " Hie jaeet vir aumme memotie,
judicium expectans.'l
• The history of medicine (see Curt Sprengel's and Hecker's works mentioned
above) ascribes the origin of this charm to Basilidea, a heretic, who communicated
it to Serenua Samonicus, father and eon, who lived in the third century, under the
emperors Geta and Alexander Severna. One of the two Samonici wrote a book in,
'Verses, containing medical precepts, under the title, " De Medicina part~o prctw
"parabili." He expresses hie preacription for the use ofthe Abracadabra, in the fol·
lowing he:rameters ;
"Inscribes charte quod didtur .dbrac:adabra,
" Sepiua et supter repett>e, sed detrahe summam,
" Et magis atque magis deaint elementa 6guris,
" Singula que semper rapies et cetera figes,
"Donee in angustum red.igatur littera conum ;
" His lino ne.r.is collum redimere memento :
"Talia languentis conducent 'l'incula collo,
"Lethaleaque abigent (miranda potentia) morboe."
This superstition was intimately connected with a belief in the curative and protec-
tive properties of certain precious atones or gems, called abr~UU or abruazaa-lttmU,
in ..Eone, D.emona, and in magic formula,or figuree, (termed by Plato, d)clt!'4mjlolli)
which were conaidered as protective apinat all kinds of di-es, danser•, &c.
Digitized by Google
263
prove jus\ as useful in curing aU diseaees, safely, quickly and du-
rably, as was that superstitious formula, which was, however,
merely thought salutary in intermittent fever, and a few other rom-
plaints. And indeed if any government should resolve to expel
all physicians, as we are erroneously told by some uncourteous
authors the Romangovernment once did, allfaithful homreopathists
may justly claim to be exempt from sueh a barbarous ordinance.
If therefore, these pages have no merit in any other respect, we
deserve at least full credit from the homreopathists for having
proved, as we 6atter ourselves, with artless but strict conclusiveness,
that as ACTIVE physicians, tluy are the most harmless men
in the world.-But if common sense proves that, as medicine ·has
existed for centuries and still exists, it is based. on truths, which
have stood and will stand the tests of reason and experience, in
spite of all th~ encroachments of credulous superstition and cun-
ning quackery, then it will also be evident that many cases require
the assistance of those great means, which merciful Providence
reveals to man, whenever nature herself is either no~ powerful
enough to remove the disease, or is inclined to injure or to destroy
the patient.
The positive injury ascribed to allopathic medicines by Hahne-
mann and his followers, and the avowed harmlessness of their
mode, may prove the true value of the former in comparison with
the indifference or nullity of the latter; since it must.be evident to
every impartial man, that any thing in physical nature, which can
injure, may, if properly applied, be highly beneficial, and vice versa.
Hence, aceording to their own verdict, we may justly charge ho-
mreopathists with the very grave sins of omission, as we have tried
to acquit them of all acts of positive commission. We must either
deny the occurrence of many cases where the life of a patient is
exposed in a few hours, or even moments, to the greatest danger,
from which he may be easily rescued by proper aid; or every body
who believes that we must wait for the effect of medicine for weeks
and months, must also admit that such a mode will frequently
produce great and irreparable injury from omission. What, for
instance, would a red-hot homreopathist say in his defence, if in a
severe case of hremoptysjs, the patient·expires by suffocation in less
than an hour, and he has neglected to prescribe the proper reme-
dies recommended by the profession ; and instead of large bleed-
Digitized by Google
264
iogs, epispastics, in)ectionll, &c., all ·neglected .by him as external
remedies, and instead of the beneficial use of dry table salt by tea-
spoonfuls, which he considers an aJlopathic remedy, and also as
"a crude article, possessed of a prejudicial chntacter," (see Concise
View, page 14,) &c., he has administered the thittieth dilution of
an antipsoric remedy, and intended to repeat this dose after four or
six weeks, when the counter-and-after-operation of the first dose
has ceased'l How can he justify his conduct, if instead of proteef-
ing a man from the danger ofa strangulated hernia inguinalis, by
a good truss and other judicious prescriptions, be recommends him
to smell every four or six weeks of a sugar-pellet, moistened with
the thirtieth developed virtue ofaaother antipsoric; while the patient
dies miserably by his implicit eonfidence in such horrid madness 1
What can be proffer for his excuse, if in a severe contusion of the
skull, the patient expires, because the homreopatbist has neglected
proper aid, and instead of the most eftectual and indispensable
internal and external remedies, such as large abstractions, cathar-
tics, &c. cold fomentations and even trepanning, he has only
administered now and then an atom of Arnica'J And thus in
hundreds o{ cases, the homreopathist, with all his contempt of
~' learned lumber," with all his "unheard of niceties," with all his
.emphatic proclamations of " no error is possible,11 " injury can
" indeed not result from a false selection," &c., will be the negative
.cause of fatal cases, or of the long sufferings of a broken constitu-
tion, perhaps never again to be restored. We have witnessed some
of these shocking cases, where men in the prime of life deplored
too late their deception and folly.•
* We have recently seen an extensive report of maay trials with the bom~opathie
method in different diseases of horses and dogs, made ac the veterirlary school and
hospital of Berlin, in presence of many etuden&e, and with the utmost exaccitude;
even homreopathista assisted atthese experiments, and the drugs wereprepared by them.
According to this re11ort, contained in the Berlin Medical Gazette, 18M, No. 14, these
•rials were instituted on account ofthe brilliant statements of many homceo-and-iso-
pathic cures of horses anddogs, lately published by Dr. Lux, (Engliah, Lynx,)veterinary
eurgeon at Leipzig, in the first volume of his work, " laopatik der C~ntagien, &c.
" or Zooiasis," "oder die Heiluug der Thiere naeh tlen Gesetzen der Natur,
(English, the cure of animals according to the laws of nature.)'' Thoogh the casea
were selected at Berlin, similar to those of Dr. Lux, 'IWl one of them toU C¥red; not
one wnfirmed the correctness of his statements even in the slightest degree.
We have also read the report of the celebrated Dr. Andral, respecting rnany experi-
ments with the homreopathic method, public)I iDJtituted by him, with the greatest
exactitude, at the hospital "la. Pitie" at Paris. They likewise prOfJed quite a.borti'IJe,
(see Bulletin General Therapeutique, May, 1834, and United States Medical and
Surgical Journal, No. V., December, ISM.)
The hoJIKeOpatbiets will probably say, thal Dr. Andral has not talent onough &e
Digitized by.Google
265
We in~ite the attention of oar iadulgeot reader, finally, to tho
foJiowing extract. Samuel Habnemann, whose sensible reaar~s
we are as anxiou to quote, as we are his raviags, says alga very
judiciously, on pages ll and 12 ofVoi.II. ofhis 1\lateriq. Medica,
.2d edit., that if the symptoms of a disease have disappeared
after the use ofcertain drugs, or the patient baa recovered tJfter
them, it does. not follow that they M116 t4UtJil it to disappear ;
and farther, contradicting io like IQilnoer his own assertion
so maoy times repeatec:l in his works, .he says, on pages H and
15 of Vol. III. ofthe same work-•' Is it pot very fooliab to·aacribe
"the coosequences to one power, while poweu of another cha..
"racter were co-operating, which often principally, dJo~tghjoimly,
'~ aided in producing the ed'ect !" Jf.we refer minutely t.o these
suggestions, which, if impartially applied to the re.aults of all the
tenets and prescriptions of t.omreopathia hitherto known, w<mld
depriv«f them altogethei- of their value, being at least much too
premature ; and if we combine them with the bold assertioas of
Hahnemaon, frequently cited, 'that among some hundreds of pa...
tients, hitherto and aow treated on the allopathic mode, om, one
bas sometimes recovered by mere chance ; we may ask every
impartial umpire, what entitles him voluntuily to select fro. the
records of medicine some scattered cases io support of bis doe.
trine? and farther, what reason has he to preclude from his ltMide
likewise the chances asserted to prevail in all other modes r
Hahoanaon, in ascribing to himself the discovery of the hom~
opathic actioo of simple drugs on the human body, and in assert-.
iDg that none bu.t hi& prescriptions admit. positively a radical anq
safe cure, has of course precluded all other physicians before hiJQ
from his discovery, and from all belongmg to it. Abstraetmg,
ascertain the "laul of niJture" and the "great truth" as well as they and their brother
homreopathist, the sugar-refiner so quickly made a doctor, and that the distingui;;hed
profesaora at the celebrated veterinary institute at Berlin, had alao not the proper
"lyrw-eyes,l' to distinguish the aymptoms in diseases of horses and dogs, since they
only understand also, when animals, " exactly and expressly define the seat of every
'' aymptom, &c. all the circumstances under which any complaint arises or disappears,
"increases or diminishes, &c., emotions of the mind or mental expressions, &c;
"sensations of falling a•leep, during sleep and on awakening; even the dreams and
"the kind of them," &c. (See Conci"e View, pages 21 and 22.)-Ifevery physician
in the world should forget his sacred duty, and on exposing his patients to the dangers
of such fooliih experiments should find them incorrect, nay 1 if even Ga!ileo, whom
ti"'Y graciously admit as one of the few competitors of their great genius, (see Concise
Vi.,w, vage 16,) should rise from his grave, and fully explain to th~m the noRSense of
their law of nature, &c. they would reply-" and yet it IS true."-ThP. negw ca.11 he
"""J'Illh•.r,n.lly white-washed, more eastly than they can be cured of tlwir follv.
:1-1
Digitized by GoogIe
266
-therefore, from the many other objections which we have inferred
against the quotations of homreopathic cures, as made before him
by men who were unconscious of his fundamental "law ofnature,"
similia simtlibus curantur : how could he quote those instances in
his behalf, as he cannot name one single case among all those
quoted, in which the supposed homreopathically acting drug bas
been used after his mode, and in which all the restrictions and con-
ditions, asserted by him to be indispensable, have been observed?
Considering, therefore, that the salutary issue of the homreopa-
thio mode is likewise not quite precluded from mere chance, of
which we may be convinced by the fact, that many also have re-
covered from external and internal diseases, who were so fortunate
as to possess neither an allopathic nor a homreopathic doctor ;-
and admitting that, among some hundred patients treated by al-
lopathists, one onlyescaped by chance; it is obvious that the num-
ber ofpatients who have so escaped during many centuries, when
compared with the number of patients treated by all homreopa-
thists during the period of their existence as practitioners, which
is less than twenty years, even admitting that they have not lost
one patient, would show it by far more probable that the bomreo-
pathic cures were made by mere chance, than the allopathic ones.
· Iftherefore Hahnemann and his followers should still admit, that
allopathists cure only one among some hundred patients, they
will all have to practise at least for about a century longer, with-
out ever losing one patient, before they can free their cures from
the equitable reciprocal reproach of mere chance, and before
they can justly appeal to the general remlt oftheir miraculous
and infallible medical treatment ! How much less can bom«2o-
pathists free their fortunate results from the reproach of being
caused by mere chance, if they avow, as we have seen, that their
mode of treatment frequently fails, and a few excepted, none
among them would be impudent enough to assert, that he has
never lost one patient, but by external violence or from old age.
Our study of homreopathia has made us so familiar with large
numbers, that we will try, from motives ofcuriosity,to elucidatethis
assertion likewise by some arithmetical calculations, whereby we
will grant to the results ofthe homreopathists the most liberal, and
to those of all other physicians the most unfavourable proportions.
D1g1tized by Google
26'7
The population of Europe amounts to 189 millions ; say of
Europe and America together, 200 millions. Suppose, o~t an
average, that there is one physician for every ten thousand peo-
ple, there would be twenty thousand physicians. There are on-
questionably more in America alone, if we consider the large
, number of those graduated annually, and that New York, with a
population of 240,000 inhabitants, has more than 400 physicians.
Now admit that every physician cures, only by chance, one pa-
tieat amoag 200, he requires 2000 patients yearly to CW'e only
ten a year: in one century, therefore,,the 20,000 physicians wiiJ,
at this rate, have cured 20 milJions ; and in less than half the
time that the healing art has existed, or in ten centuries, 200
millions. If there are.lOOO homc;eopathists, (there are certainly
not so many, and not 100 who follow faithfully tbis doctrine) who
at the same rate permit all their patients to recover, that is, 2000
each, their number will amount, in ten years, to 20 millions; and
they could not, in less time tha11 a century, begin to prove their
mode of treat~eot not to depend upon the same chance which
they ascribe to other modes. But it is generally co~idered a
very unfortunate medical practice, if iu one hundred patients
ten die. .The incurable AsiatiC' cholera even destroyed only 33;
per cent. at the highest average;•-2000 patients leave, therefOl"e,
· * The United States again gloriously excepted !-We have already stated aboYe,
that a North American homreopathist has cured all his six hundred patients, who
. came under his treatment, afler the begiRning of S!>pteraber, 1832. An· allopathist,
Dr. David M. Reese of this city, was not less fortunate, according to a letter
written to Dr. Nathaniel Porter, professor of the theory and praetice of physic in the
University of Maryland, and published .in U.S. Med. and Surg. Journal, Number V.
Dr. R. states, "During the year 1832 I attended 432.cases, (of asiatic cholera) all
" of which were treated upon these general principles,"-(repeated bleedings by
pounds, calomel by drachms, and ice at pleasure)-" varying according to the circum-
" stances which, more or less, modify every case; and of this number I lost but nine,
"every one of whom, in my own opinion, died for want Ofblood-letting, the time for this
" operation having passed before I saw them."-Who will doubl, if among 432 case11
of Asiatie cholera only nine have died, and that every one of the latter would have
been cured, had Dr. Reese been called early enough, thllt all the world is very Rlueh
mistaken about this disease, if they cousider it so dangerous. It will appear even less
dangerous than a catarrh,(which eometimee may change intoa fatal bronchitis, encepha-
litis, &c.,) to the physicians in all other quarters of the globe, as soon as they have
learned this infallible mode of treatment.-Dr. Reese, who ridicules all opinion811bout
the co&tag!onofAsiatic cholen as fancies. has seen his treatment confirmed in the much
milder epidemie of this year, having 1\)St but thrf'e of 101 patients; of course by the
same rea801l as quoted above in regard to the nine deaths. Our German professional
brethren will be much amazed at these brilliant results, which they could not attain.
We cannot conceive why (according to the public reports) this year so many have
died from the Asiatic cholera as it has been much milder, and as those splendid resulta ,
of a treatment, 10 •ettleJ. by this uncommonly talented and happy practitioner, have
been known to the medical profession of America since the last epidemic; for,
ifhe himselfcould not attend to all cholera patients, his respected colleagues, in New-
Digitized by Coogle
'
ill te&tt tsoo cured in one year by one physician; or 20,000 phy-
siciaas will cere, in ten ceaturies, 36,000 millions of patients.--
Admitting, therefore, even that five times as many, or 98 out of a
hundred patients of homreopathists recover, and that, from the
present moment, every physician should become a faithful homreo--
patbis&, almost a whole century most elapee before the general
result could be incontrovertibly proved to be in favour of hoOKe"'
bpathia, ifits votaries insist upon the ridiculous and contemptible
assertion, that of 200 allopathic corea only one sue<:eeds by
tbaoce.
The real great truth, indirectly adtanced by the homreopathic
doctrine, consists in clearly demonstrating the ample means which
nature possesses to cure many and even dangerous diseases in
ioan also, if left undisturbed and without any interference what-
ever ; and that therefore many cases; requiring the assistance of
the healing art, may be cured. much quicker and safer when phy-
sicians do not consider large doses of powerful drugs and an he-
h»ic method of treatment, always absolutely necessary.-Potting
.but ofview that no physician would obstinately pursue a mode of
treatment which, in all, or at least in most cases, would prove
immediately noxious, we would act as partial and unfair towards
homreopatbists, as Habnemann does in regard to all alloputhists,
If we should question fot a moment the honesty of all of them.
and the truth of all theit statements. Be the number of patients
kuffered to recover by holll(Bopathists ever so small, a great
l!nib could be derived from these cases1 which would prove
highly useful to many physicians of our time, if they were not
in favour of a fanaticism• much more noxious than the play"
tbittgs of a faithful homreopathic treatment. Many would be
ee:tttvinct!d; that thousands who might have recovered, after
Y
~lilt leaat, would hate been anriouil to pursue euch a simple mode of treatment !
We callnot undoratand aleo, what tbe meaning of Dr. Reea'• reatrictiona can be
~hen hi! iaya, " treated upon these general principlee, varying according to the tir·
11 cunilllllncee," &e., eidce the conception ofgtMral primiplu would unqueetionably
dietaW; in many caaee, a very dift'erent and even opposite treatment; the fact; that
he 'ltould not certainlyllbatract three pounde of blood from an infant child, nor admi-
ni;ter to it eitty graina of ealomel pro doei, doee not, however beneficial it baa proved
ttl be1 exculpate thie ltiode from being merely an empiric one. If both, the
American hollla!ppathiat and allopathiat are correct; alld who darea doubt it !-how im-
mense ie the dift'erenee between a doee of the thirtieth developed virtue of camphor,
l:opper; &c., and repeated dnaee of forty graiDII of calomel, &c.-Sed patet immani,
~t vaet6 reapeetat h1atu !-Luer. What can better prove the benevolent proriaion
bf nature, in protecting life from the danser which naturally muet arlee in eome taaes,
1\-om onlt or the other of bOth eo diametneally bppollitll modee of treatment !
•
Digitized by Google
269
m~ly smelling of a moietened sagar-pellet, have fallen Victims1
·or e'scaped from death with a ruined constitution, by the prevalent
nonsensical opinion, that the only true guides of the physician are
symptoms and the results of post mortem examinations ; or by the
dominant prejudices, that every disease must be a genuine inflam-
mation, a plethora, an accumulation of bile, etc. and that there-
fore the blood, this.very essence of anhnallife, and its noblest se-a ,
creted :fluids, are to lte abstracted by repeated large blee~ings #
the sordes must be evacuated by large doses ofcalomel, cathartics,
etc. until all vital reaction1 termed by them inflammatory excite-
ment, becomes extinct r .
Many rude empirics~ who now scoff at homreopathia, merely
from selt:cooceit1 without any t'urther investigation of it, wonld
perhaps; on a nearer a{:quaintance with some ofits facts, pauset
and cease to dmg their patients with large doses of powenul me-
dicines, and w~nld soon become sensible, that it is still better to
adopt whimsical drug-symptoms and virtues, than either to combat
causes which are only supposed to exist, ar if\hey exist, rudely
to destroy the substance and resources of life simultaneously.-
They would scoff not less ifthey were told, that an extended me-
dical practice among all classes of people was conducted upwards
of thirty years, at least with results not less fortunate than those
they claim, almost without bleedings, without spoonfuls of calo•
mel, without large doses of opium, morphine, etc. and neverthe-
less, this fact is true. Hence it is evident, that they must either
assert, (with the homreopathists, that all they prescribe can netef
do any harm if it does no good ; or if they derive their fortunate
success from their active mode oftreatment, they must consistently
admi~ that inany ofthose patients, who recovered witlwutit, would
have been materially injured by it. To be sure, they could in re-
turn reply, with the same consistency, that many who were saved
by their partial and active treatment, would probably have died
without it. But we should think, that a medical treatment, which
regards minutely the great variety of the diseases of all the systems
and parts of the human body and the various and important at-
mospherical and other induences, which confidently trusts to the
great assistaqce of the vital powers, &c., must appear more accord•
'ant with the laws and processes of living nature, and must.there•
fore generally prove more salutary, than a partial and rude medi:
Digitized by GoogIe
270
cal autocracy !-We showd alao_ think, even supposing the
numbers of cures nnd failures to be equal on both sides, and they
certainly are not, that it is still better to run the chance of letting
the patient die, than of killing him.-fhysicians who attribute
the recoveries oftheir patients to their mode oftreatment and skill,
and aU their failures to mere accident, will never become con-
scious of their errors, and never improve in thejr profession : it is
principally the school of misfortune which makes wise men wiser ;
that physician only who soon forgets hia cures, and remembers his
failures, will improve ia knowledge and talent, though much grief
is added by this to his tiresome and arduous vocation.-Should it
be sufficient for medical practice to brandish the lancet and to
administer empirically some dozens of remedies, then anatomy,
physiology, chemistry, etc. with all their collateral sciences, are
also merely ornamental to allopathists, as they are to hotnreopa-
thists ; and we may justly presume, that no patient exists, who,
knowing the bearings and probable consequences of both, would
not judiciously prefer a homwopathist, if he should require the
assistance of a physician.
The neglect of philosophical study, and of the treasurescontained
in the writings of the great physicians of past ages, which, com-
bined with the progress of modern anatomy, physiology and che-
mistry, would have highly elevated the profession of our times, has
paved the way for homwopathia. Conscious ofthitl fact, let us thank-
fully acknowledge the consequences which even this unparalleled
superstition has indirectly promoted, and all the blessings ofrational
medicine will be again secured to mankind. Rational medicine
has always acknowledged, and truly learned and talented physi-
c:ianll have always observed, that the smallest dose of any medicine
may be sometimes too large, and the largest too small, provided
that the limits of both are not imaginary, but marked by the laws
of nature, by experience and common sense. The salutary use
of mineral springs, which frequently contain only very small
quantities of medicinal substancei!, have attracted for many cen-
turies the reflections of the judicious phyeicians in· regai·d to the
efficacy ofsmall doses; and severe chronic diseases, especially those
which, idiopathicallyor sympathetically, affect the organs and gang-
lions ofthe abdomen, have often been cured with small quantities of
digestive salts, emetic tartar, calomel, &c., by which, probably, in
the center ofthe animal functions, a series ofsalutary living electro-
Digitized by GoogIe
271
chemical processes is exci&ed and entertained-We think that tbe
grea~ discoveries in modern chemistry, especially those belonging to
the processes last mentioned, will promote still more the exhibition of
reasonably small doses of medicines, particularly in cases which are
not urgent; and we are confident and hope that, in th~s way, me-
dicine will soon be greatly and beneficially reformed. We regret that
this reform will be delayed by the discredit which must follow ho-
mreopathia, as soon as its true bearings are generally known.
Were it possible to prove incontrovertibly, that one single case has
ever been cured by, and not merely after, the thirtieth developed
virtueofany substanceordrug, no apology whatever could.be devised
for the medical profession, if it should hesitate forthwith to adopt
homreopathia. None more than ourselves would then humbly
acknowledge our deceptive prejudices so long entertained, and none
would be mQre willing than ourselves, to atone amply for the injury
done, perhaps,in these pages to homreopathists and their doctrine, by
our misled zeal for truth and the welfare of our fellow-men.-As a
physician, we must then hail such a state of things, by which, in
the words of the ingenious and learned author·on demonology and
witchcraft, " the ordinary laws of nature were occasionally sus-
" pended," though we could not consider it ableasing for mankind
to attain even the greatest age by homreopathia, if, as would be the
case, the foundation of reason and experience, in medicine as in
other sciences, is destroyed, and a new era (\f supernatural powers
and miracles is opened. But until then, we will likewise faithfully ,
. adhere to the other judicious expression of the same celebrated
writer, viz. "Each advance in natural knowledge teaches us, that
"it is the pleasure of the Creator to govern the world by laws,
"which he has imposed, and which are not in our times interrupted
" and suspended."
We devoutly confess, that we must admit much that we cannot
comprehend, and we are fully convinced, -that if our knowledge
could be many billion times greater than it is, we would, however,
be still conscious that it is by far too little, distantly to comprehend
the fundamental law of nature, and still less, its eternal first cause.
-Medicine particularly has been, and always will be, more un-
certain and more subject to the induence of enoneous hypotheses,
than most other conjectural sciences, because in animal, and par-
ticularly in human life, the physical powers of na~al appear con-
nected with, and modified by, the laws of a higher and very dif-
Digitized by Google
272
ferent order of things ; to these we feel that we particularly belong
in the few fleeting moments, when the abstracted mind seems
disenthralled from the sway of physical nature, and becomes con·
~cious ofits future better home. It is owing to our total want of a
clear conception what life itself is, and wherein it essentially con-
l!lists, that the healing art, more than any other, alternately advances
and retrogrades, and that, notwithstanding the greatest discoveries
and experiences made in it, one age bequeaths to another its self-
created or inherited supe~annuated errors and prejudices under the
cloak of truth. But, nevertheless, rational medicine, called by
Hahnemann allopathia, can justly boast of truths which have stood
the test of upwards of a score of centuries, aml will probably re-
main unshaken for ages, Every honest physician, whose interest
is not merely confined to the bedside of his patients, but who is
zealous for truth, and fully aware of the destination of his arduous
.vocation, will feel himself in duty bound to defend the tenable
ground which Provideooe has granted to the human intellect, and
to the noble!t exertions of the really. high-gifted benefactors of
their race, against the encroachments of any superstition and cre-
dulity. This defence, however, will in medicine also be suc;cessful
only by the great advantages which true religious devotion, the
means of an ample philosophical education, assiduous study and
true love for that vocation offer; but not by a doctrine like Hahne-
mannism, whica despises all the laws of the human intellect and
of nature, which substitutes for rational medicine the products of
a morbid fancy and the rudest empiricism which ever existed ;
and which, as it admits of no cause which is not visible or palpable,
would even not allow the existence of a Goo.
If in doing so, with consciousness of our faithful exertions for
truth and philanthropy, we should once become sensible of our
long cherished errors and mistakes, we will candidly confess them ;
and when we arrive at the great cross-way which separates the
twilight of our earthly existence· from the brightness of eternal
truth, we may quietly exclaim with Laplace, the Newton of the
nineteenth century, when breathing his last.:-" all we know js
"very little; but all we do not know is inunen:;e."
'I; ~ . . 1' 1'1
... .
--.
.- .. - • '·.1- .,
Digitized by GoogIe
