{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__hare_hare___who_wrote_the_mahatma_letters.pdf","mytitle":"Who Wrote The Mahatma Letters","mylang":"de"}
WHO WROTE
T H E
MAHATMA LETTERS?
THE FIRST THOROUGH EXAMINATION OF THE COMMUNICA­
TIONS ALLEGED TO HAVE BEEN RECEIVED BY THE
LATE A. P. SINNETT FROM TIBETAN MAHATMAS
by
HAROLD EDWARD HARE
an d
WILLIAM LOFTUS HARE
“Whither the argument, like a wind,
takes us, thither we must go.”
P la to : Republic
LONDON
WILLIAMS <
2? NORGATE LTD
GREAT RUSSELL STREET
F I R S T P U B L I S H E D I N I 9 3 6
P R I N T E
U N W I N
All rights reserved
D I N G R E A T B R I T A I N B Y
B R O T H E R S L T D . , W O K I N G
H. E. AND W. L. HARE
WHO WROTE
T H E
MAHATMA LETTERS?
THE FIRST THOROUGH EXAMINATION OF THE COMMUNICA­
TIONS ALLEGED TO HAVE BEEN RECEIVED BY THE
LATE A. P. SINNETT FROM TIBETAN MAHATMAS
by
HAROLD EDWARD HARE
and
WILLIAM LOFTUS HARE
“Whither the argument, like a wind,
takes us, thither we must go.”
P l a t o : Republic
LONDON
WILLIAMS <
2? NORGATE LTD
GREAT RUSSELL STREET
F I R S T P U B L I S H E D I N I 9 3 6
P R I N T E
U N W I N
All rights reserved
D I N G R E A T B R I T A I N B Y
B R O T H E R S L T D . , W O K I N G
SKETCH MAP OF TIBET, WITH ADJACENT PARTS OF INDIA, TURKESTAN, AND CHINA.
~
'
'
)r
"
CONTENTS
P A R T I . T H E P R O B L E M
Section I. PREFACE page 15
Section II. THE LITERAL TEXTS 22
The “Teachings” and the “Letters” ; The Compiler’s
Preface; The First Complete Mahatmic Revelation;
Without Abridgement, Correction or Commentary; Mr.
Sinnett’s Occult World Text; Fragmentary and Copiously
Corrected; “The Astral Post” ; Mr. Sinnett Seeks a Sign
and the First Letter is Received.
Section III. PUBLIC NOTICES OF THE LETTERS 29
Official Disapproval; For and Against in the Reviews;
The Early Teachings Criticized; Mr. Sinnett’s Responsi­
bility.
Section IV. THE MAHATMAS A T HOME 36
Geography and Topography of Tibet (Map of Tibet);
The Mahatmas as Men and Masters; “Morya” as
H.P.B.’s Spiritual Guide; A Jovial Mahatma; “The
Venerable Chohan” ; The Mahatmas’ Feats of Endur­
ance; Visits to India and “Quick Communications”.
Section V. THE MAHATMAS’ KNOWLEDGE 43
Claims to Infallibility; “The Absolute Truth” ; “Mahatma
Attributes” ; The Mahatmas’ Libraries; The Book ofKin-te;
“Your Western Sciences” ; The Cosmic Scroll; Portraits of
the Mahatmas.
Section VI. THE FIRST EIGHT LETTERS 56
“The Occult World” Series Examined; Brief Abstract of
Letter 1; A Vision, a Voice, and an Avalanche; Tamper­
ing with the Mails; Entry of Master “Morya” ; Universal
Brotherhood.
7
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
PART II. T H E I N V E S T I G A T I O N
Section VII. THE PHILOSOPHICAL SECTION page
Substance and Accident; Esoteric Buddhism; “Some Vital
Errors” ; “The Only Right Exposition” ; Theosophy
without “Theos” ; Theosophia: the Word and the Doctrine;
Theosophy’s Star in the West; Isis Veiled and Unveiled;
Theosophy’s Old Testament Rejected; The Mahatmas’
Criticisms; Theosophy’s Star in the East.
Section VIII. PERSONALITY AND PHILOSOPHY
The Mahatma’s Curiosity; Spirits of the Departed; The
Great Cycle; The Septenary System; The Numerical
Structure of the Universe; Cosmological Queries
Answered; The Denial of God.
Section IX. REINCARNATION MISUNDERSTOOD
The Doctrine First Mentioned; The Mahatmas Fore­
stalled; Mrs. Kingsford’s Claims to Priority; “Isis” on
the Doctrine; Its “Possibility and Impossibility” ; “Not a
Rule in Nature”.
Section X. INDIAN PHILOSOPHY
The Vedanta Misrepresented; The Meaning of Maya;
Buddhism Corrupted; The Mahavagga: Rhys Davids’
Version; The Mahatma’s Version; “The Devachan” and
“Sukhavati” ; Beal’s Catena; Max Muller’s Older Sanskrit
Text; Buddha versus Buddha.
Section XL THE STYLE AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE
LETTERS
Not Oriental; Examples of French Grammatical Basis;
Transatlantic Elements; Erratic Punctuation; Literary
References; The Mahatmas’ Model; A Libel on a
Laureate; Philosophy, Poetry and Fiction; The Mahatmas’
Dog-Latin.
Section XII. THE SO-CALLED “PRECIPITATION”
PROCESS
Mr. Jinarajadasa’s Account; An Evasive Statement;
The Mahatmas’ Own Account; What says K.H.?; The
Process Examined; “Precipitation Unlawful” ; A Sum­
mary of the Evidence.
8
Contents
Section XIII. “THE KIDDLE INCIDENT’ page140
The Mahatma Charged with Plagiarism; Another Bacon-
Shakespeare Mystery; Eastern and Western Plagiarism;
The Mystery Solved; A Poetical Witness; “The Rosetta
Stone” ; Three Years After; Mental Telegraphy; The
Restored Version.
Section XIV. “THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT” 152
An Official Excuse for the Kiddle Blunder; Alarm at The
T.S. Headquarters; H.P.B. on the Incident; “The Original
Scrap of Paper” ; A Brief for the Chela; The End of the
Incident; On the Side of the Sadducees.
PART III. T H E D E M O N S T R A T I O N
Section XV. THE BLAVATSKY HYPOTHESIS 165
Mr. Sinnett’s Pros and Cons; “Not Impossible” ; “A Mere
Absurdity” ; “Perfectly Unlike” ; A New Comparison
Proposed; H.P.B.’s and The Mahatmas’ Languages;
Words and Key-Words; Grammatical Licences; The Split
Infinitive; The Dropped Auxiliary Verb; Franco-English
Phrases; Sixteen Miscellaneous Parallels; Some Minor
Characteristics; Liberties with Proper Names; Biblical
References; Mockery and Parody; Consummatum est.
Section XVI. THE FORBIDDEN LAND 211
Was Madame Blavatsky Ever in Tibet?; Mr. Sinnett’s
Version; The First Entry: 1856; Mrs. Besant’s Version;
The First Entry: 1864; Do the Letters Confirm the Story?
“Go Not Forth” ; A Fatal Letter; Truth Will Out; Damo-
dar’s Goings and Comings; Damodar in Substance and
Shadow.
Section XVII. THE MANUSCRIPTS EXAMINED 224
No Precipitation; The Writers of the Letters; The Hands
of the Masters; The Hand of Morya; The Styles of the
Scriptorium; The Letters in Detail; Paper and Writing
Materials; Various Scripts, Measurements, Signatures,
Addresses, Seals; The Blavatsky Letters; Signatures and
Counter-Signatures; General Remarks on Handwriting;
Light from Older Manuscripts.
9
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Section XVIII. THE CASE FOR THE DEFENCE page 252
Some Early Sceptics Answered; Changes of Policy;
Motives for Retirement; Tactics ofBluff; “IfThere are No
Mahatmas” ; Three More Touchstones; Four Notable
Admissions; “The Well-Known Script” ; Mr. Sinnett’s
Last Thoughts; Blavatsky at Bay; De Profundis; Her Own
Hypothesis; A Great Evasion.
Section XIX. THE THEOSOPHICAL SUPERSTRUCTURE 275
The Occult Hierarchy; Constructing a Cosmology; The
Tibetan Twins; Buddhist-Liberal-Catholic-Mahatmas;
The Mahatma and the Presidency; The World Teacher;
Clairvoyant Confirmation; The Happy Valley; After
Fifty Years; The Chela Djual Khool; Farewells; The
Curtain Falls.
Section XX. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 298
The Problem ofMotive; Three Suggested Motives: 1. The
Power Motive; 2. The Anti-Christian Motive; 3. The
Motive ofNecessity; The Heel ofAchilles; The Opening of
the Seals; Consummatum est.
Index 321
IO
L IST OF IL L U ST R A T IO N S
THE AUTHORS OF “WHO WROTE THE MAHATMA
LETTERS?” Frontispiece
MAP OF TIBET Facing page 36
MAHATMA ROOT HOOMI Facing page 50
MAHATMA MORYA Facing page 62
MADAME BLAVATSKY AND COL. OLCOTT Facing page 218
MR. A. P. SINNETT Facing page 238
A MAHATMA’S COUNTER SIGNATURE Page 243
A K..H. FACSIMILE Page 248
ii
PART I
T H E P R O B L E M
S E C T I O N I
P R E F A C E
T h e book entitled The Mahatma Letters to A. P.
Sinnett was published in September, 1923. On
receiving a copy of it early in the following year, I
opened it with a feeling that I was renewing an
old but slight acquaintance with one of the literary
Mahatmas, for I remembered having read, about
twenty-five years before, in The Life of Anna Kings-
ford, an account of a meeting of the London Lodge
of the Theosophical Society, at which a telegram,
said to have been received from an Asiatic sage,
was read, giving his authority for the re-appoint-
ment to the presidency of the lady named. As
there was to have been a contest for the filling of
the office, the reading of the telegram—“Remain
President, Koot Hoomi”—created what was de­
scribed as a dramatic situation. The rival candi­
dates perforce became reconciled, and the command
in favour of Mrs. Kingsford was duly obeyed.
These circumstances no doubt impressed the name
and personality of the Mahatma somewhat deeply
on my mind.
I have not recalled the incident just mentioned
because I suppose it to have had any intrinsic
importance, but rather for the sake of bringing out
another fact more nearly related to the subject and
the writing of this book. This is that in the interval
between my first indirect encounter with a Mahatma
*5
y
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
and my reading of The Mahatma Letters, I neither
heard nor read anything about these mysterious
personages. I was never a Member of the Theo-
sophical Society, nor had I read or even looked
into the classics of Theosophy, such as Isis Un­
veiled, The Occult World, Esoteric Buddhism, The
Secret Doctrine, or any authoritative text-books in
which the Mahatmas had been mentioned as re-
vealers of truth or writers of familiar letters.
I give these personal particulars only to show
that so far as the absence of prejudice from my
mind might qualify me as a reader or critic of the
work, I was fitted to peruse with impartiality the
compilation hereafter examined. Consequently I
read The Mahatma Letters in the spirit of a student,
and observed (as much for my own ease as from
a sense of justice to other parties) the counsel of
Bacon’s essay Of Studies’
. “Read not to contradict
and confute, nor to believe and take for granted,
nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and
consider.”
I had not gone far in the perusal of The Mahatma
Letters before I began to observe points on which
I would fain have asked questions, had there been
anyone near enough and in sufficiently responsible
authority to answer them. Questions involving
historical fact, literary taste and ethical standards
arose on almost every page, so that in time it
became impossible to maintain a clear conception
of the characters, objects and ideas of the reputed
writers. And although further progress in the
reading of the book increased its problems and
16
Preface
more heavily engrossed my labours, I saw that in
order to do justice to it I must read other books
associated with it—at least The Occult World and
Esoteric Buddhism, and perhaps The Early Teachings
of the Masters, its rival and forerunner.
I had hardly settled down to the task of studying
The Mahatma Letters and the above-mentioned
publications, when the Vice-President of the Theo-
sophical Society began to contribute to The
Theosophist almost every month instalments of the
“Early History” of the Society, in which matter
germane to the present study occasionally appeared,
and these literary tracts had to be added to my
survey. Yet while topics increased, time pressed.
The Mahatma Letters had gone through four re­
prints, and The Letters of H. P. Blavatsky, also to
Mr. Sinnett, were likewise in the bookshops.
Lastly, on the point of the increasing scope of my
inquiries, I had almost concluded my literary
labours when I was fortunate in obtaining permis­
sion—to which subject I will return later—to
examine by commission both the Mahatma and
Blavatsky series of manuscripts, and to note par­
ticulars of them for employment at my discretion
in this book.
The book I am now introducing does not set out
to answer all the questions, biographical, philo­
sophical and moral, which the perusal of The
Mahatma Letters might be expected to raise. It seeks
rather to grapple with a simple but fundamental
literary problem, which, if it can be satisfactorily
solved, will dispose of a multitude of smaller ones.
i7 B
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
On its title-page the authors ask the question:
Who wrote the Mahatma Letters?, and in its subse­
quent pages they give the answer.
P a r t i is entitled T h e P r o b le m , in which we
state the original theses of several literary sponsors
for the Mahatmas as entities and as teachers, and
cite from various sources particulars of their charac­
teristics, attributes, knowledge, abilities and abodes.
P a r t ii is entitled T h e I n v e s tig a tio n . Here we
give in outiine the principles of the Mahatmas’
Philosophy, note the surprising accretions of per­
sonality and controversy in the Letters, and
compare some of the authentic documents of Indian
Philosophy with the erroneous renderings of them
by the writers. Coming closer to the manner and
matter of the Letters, we analyse their style, con­
struction and literary references, and examine the
conflicting accounts given of their miraculous pro­
duction and transmission. From the whole mass of
matter brought under review a conclusion is drawn
adverse to the claims and pretensions of the book.
We find that whoever wrote the Mahatma Letters,
the Mahatmas did not.
P a r t h i is entitled T h e D e m o n s tr a tio n , in
which we propose a hypothesis in place of the
one we hold to have broken down. We identify,
from a number of sources, the habitual hand and
style, the ideas and character of the actual writer
of the Letters, whom we name. In a late Section
of the book we indicate in some detail the profound
significance of this discovery; for if the Letters
were not written by the Mahatmas, but by some
18
I
Preface
person creating their characters and using their
invented names, all that has followed and flowed
from these early pronouncements must be in one
way or other vitiated. Here it is only necessary to
say that the recent activities of the late President
of the Theosophical Society and her colleagues
stand upon and consequently fall into the sandy
foundations which we have revealed. For it is
indisputable that “The New Theosophical
Church”, “The World Religion”, “The World
Teacher”, and “The Theosophical University”, as
promulgated by Mrs. Besant and the late Bishop
Leadbeater are all commended to the world on
the ultimate authority of a hierarchy of “Oriental
sages” whose existence is fictitious, and whose
teaching is discredited.
In the same Section a review is made of the
history of the Theosophical Society, so far as its
doctrine, discipline, government and policy are
based upon the belief in the entity of the two
Mahatmas and the authenticity of the communica­
tions attributed to them.
In closing this Preface we return to the fact, just
mentioned, that permission was granted for an
inspection to be made of the manuscripts of the
two series of Letters. We are pleased to be able
to express here our thanks to the custodians of the
documents for this facility, which has made it
possible for our investigations to penetrate more
deeply into the internal and external character of
the Mahatma Letters than could otherwise have
been done. The permission granted does not, of
*9
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
course, carry with it any degree of assent to the
conclusions reached in this book, and we formally
dissociate the executrix of the late Mr. Sinnett and
the compiler of the two volumes of Letters from any
views expressed herein.
Postscript
It has been agreed between Mr. W. Loftus Hare
and myself, the joint authors of this book, that I
should write the foregoing Preface, which contains
a few statements that only have reference to me.
Although the greater part of the following work is
from my hand, I have to acknowledge that the
contributions from my brother form essential parts
of the structure and argument. In the Sections
dealing with Indian Philosophy, Reincarnation,
The Theosophical Superstructure, and in many
other places, I have had the advantage of his
special knowledge of the subjects therein discussed,
and have entrusted to him the examination of the
Mahatma and Blavatsky Manuscripts.
It is perhaps necessary to say a little more with
reference to the “Superstructure”, the main portion
of which is my brother’s work, in order to show
why he was qualified to write it. He was for more
20
Postscript
than twenty years a member of the Theosophical
Society, to which he was attracted by his interest
in Comparative Religion and Philosophy—the
Society’s Second Object—and in 1916 he became an
official lecturer in this branch of the work. He took
no part in the side issues and aberrations which,
again and again, appeared to him to disturb the
peace and usefulness of the Society. Nevertheless,
he was unwillingly drawn into contentions arising
out of new importations which were added to the
Society’s original Objects. Over a period of ten
years, standing sometimes almost alone, he resisted
what he considered mistaken policies.
Looking back on these events, and in the light
of the conclusions of this book, his critical attitude
will appear to have been justified. I may add that
although our labours have been thus divided, we
join in accepting full responsibility for the facts
and arguments advanced in the following pages.
H. E. H.
21
S E C T I O N I I
THE LITERAL TEXTS
The Early Teachings of the Masters, 1881-1883, edited by
C. Jinarajadasa, m.a. Theosophical Publishing
House, Adyar, Madras, India, 1923.
The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett from Mahatmas M.
and K. H. Transcribed, compiled, and with an
Introduction by A. T. Barker. T. Fisher Unwin,
Ltd., London, 1923.
The Letters ofH. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett. Transcribed,
compiled, and with an Introduction by A. T.
Barker. T. Fisher Unwin, Ltd., London, 1924.
The “ Teachings” and the “Letters”
In April, 1923, the Theosophical Publishing House
at Adyar, Madras, announced the forthcoming of
The Early Teachings of the Masters in an advertise­
ment which said:
“The publication of this important work marks
an epoch in the history of The Theosophical
Society. It contains all the early teachings
given to Messrs. A. P. Sinnett and A. O. Hume
on which the famous book Esoteric Buddhism
was based. The original questions and answers
given to them by the Masters and Their
senior pupils are now published for the first
time.”
22
The Literal Texts
It is evident that in April, 1923, it must have
been an urgent matter for the custodians of the
Teachings to bring them to light, not only because
of their intrinsic merits, but because another hand
was even then preparing in England a publication
likely to mark more distinctly than the Adyar Codex
“an epochinthe historyofthe TheosophicalSociety”.
This second book—The Mahatma Letters—was pub­
lished in September, 1923. Three reprints of it
have been made, followed by a fifth and sixth im­
pression of a second edition, with a revised text.
Hence we judge that the Letters must have had a
large sale. It would be obvious, if it had not been
stated, that the London editor worked from the
complete series of the original Letters, and the
Indian editor from a small selection of copies.
These copies are said to have been delivered by
Messrs. Sinnett and Hume, “by order of the Master
K.H., to H.P.B. and Damodar Mavalankar”, and
filed at Adyar. At a later date the editor discovered
in Australia, and collected from the manuscript
books of Bishop Leadbeater and Miss Francesca
Arundale, the remainder of his set. Nothing is
vouched for these copies on the score of strict
accuracy, nor is anything stated as to who wrote
them out.
Seeing that The Early Teachings of the Masters is
a small volume compared with The Mahatma
Letters, it is a nice point whether the promise of
the Publishing House at Adyar to give “all the
early teachings” is fulfilled, unless the large
quantities of deleted matter are regarded as not
23
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
doctrinal but personal (which assuredly they are)
and therefore negligible. A first glance at the two
books by way of comparison shows that we cannot
utter in connection with them the axiom of Euclid
that “the greater includes the less” ; because
though “the less” in this case is much smaller in
bulk than the greater, it contains by way of exten­
sive and careful correction a quantity of added
matter which makes it not so much a reduction as
a variation of its original. As we shall have little
more to say about the smaller book, a few facts as
to its text may be given here.
Letter x in The Mahatma Letters appears in three
parts in The Early Teachings (pp. 208, 214, 232).
It contains 118 corrections in punctuation, 50
significant alterations in type, 60 corrections in
spelling, transposition and omissions of words, five
corrections in a long Latin phrase, three in Sanskrit
and one in logic; besides which a misrepresentation
in mythology, which sacrifices allegory to delicacy,
is introduced. Saturn, who in the myth and the
Letter is said to have devoured his children, is only
permitted by the taste of the reviser to have
destroyed them. Since this “Teaching” was “copied
out at Simla, September 28, ’82”, the two hundred
or more improvements were probably made by
Mr. Sinnett.
The First Complete Mahatmic Revelation
The Mahatma manuscripts were bequeathed
without conditions by the late A. P. Sinnett to his
24
The Literal Texts
executrix, and have been published with her con­
sent in book form, verbatim et literatim. There can
be no doubt that their publication will be of great
service in the settlement of long-standing doubts in
the public mind in regard to several important
matters, for readers now have before them, for the
first time, the whole, or all that is left of the
Mahatmic revelation of the years 1880 to 1884,
untouched by selection, abridgment, expurgation,
correction or commentary. Never before have all
these factors been absent from the publications,
and never has it been possible for a disciple of
the doctrine—still less a doubter—to form a correct
judgment on the full Mahatmic text; hence such
a judgment has never been made. For these reasons,
then, Mr. Barker is to be highly praised and warmly
thanked for the faith he has exhibited and the
labour he has spent in the production of an indis­
pensable document.
Mr. Sinnett’s Corrected Text
It is necessary to support by some literal facts the
observations just made as to the incompleteness
and incorrectness of the first revealed texts. It
may surprise not a few readers of The Mahatma
Letters to learn, on opening the book, that its five
hundred pages contain about one hundred and
thirty Letters, only the first seven of which formed
the basis of the astonishing disclosures in Mr.
Sinnett’s book, The Occult World, and were quoted
in fragments therein. Moreover, the “unequivocal”
25
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
assurance given by Mr. Sinnett (p. 69) that he
would “in no case alter one syllable of the passages
actually quoted” was of little value to the reader,
for within the terms of this promise—if we may
trust Mr. Barker’s transcriptions—Mr. Sinnett con­
sidered himself at liberty to make about fifty literal
corrections, seventy-five alterations of styles of
type (capitals, italics and quotation marks), two
hundred punctuations, and thirty significant and
obviously prudent omissions.
Of the sixteen Letters (ix to xxv) which form
the basis of Esoteric Buddhism—as well as of The
Early Teachings of the Masters, only two (xxmh and
xxv) are quoted literally in the earlier work,
where they are as generously corrected as the case
requires. The rest are by authority carefully re­
written in abstract.
“ The Astral Post”
Comparing the circumstances attending the first
delivery of the Letters to Mr. Sinnett and their
present aspect to a reader’s eye, the most significant
contrast is that they are now unheralded by
“occult phenomena”. This was not the case when
—as was believed—they first crossed the Himalayan
snows, and were mysteriously delivered by “the
astral post” on to writing-desks and breakfast-
tables, or dropped “out of nothing, so to speak”,
“on the noses” of their appointed recipients.
Without going over the romantic story of the
life-preparation in the occult arts which fitted the
26
The Literal Texts
principal agent in the delivery of the Letters
(Madame Blavatsky) to procure them in a con­
tinuous series, it is imperative to notice the small
premonitions which convinced Mr. Sinnett, the
editor of The Pioneer of Allahabad, that some
greater wonder was waiting at his door.
In the year 1880, says Mr. Sinnett, Madame
Helena P. Blavatsky (one of the founders of the
Theosophical Society in New York in 1875) came
to Simla, in the course of her cross-continental
wanderings, and very soon startled the Anglo-
Indian community there by her amazing and
miraculous-seeming gifts. Bells were heard as if
rung in mid-air, raps were made on tables and
doors, consumed cigarette papers were re-created,
letters were found in sewn-up pillows, cups and
saucers were dug out of hill-sides, and water was
somehow raised in a waste wilderness when a
picnic party was in want ofcoffee. These ofMadame
Blavatsky’s works, wonderful as they were, Mr.
Sinnett held to be trifles compared with a much
higher faculty she possessed and frequently exer­
cised; and that was “the magnificent power of
psychological telegraphy with her occult friends”
(O.W., p. 23).
Mr. Sinnett Seeks a Sign
Who were these “occult friends”, and where did
they abide? They were at first called “The
Brothers”, and afterwards “The Masters”, and
were said to live in Tibet. One of them, as we
27
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
learn from a sketch of Madame Blavatsky’s life
by Mr. Sinnett, had been her guide from child­
hood, and the other her guru in “a course of
study carried on for seven years in a Himalayan
retreat” (O.W., p. 23). When Mr. Sinnett had
become convinced (like Macbeth in the case of
the metaphysical sisters) that these remote-dwelling
Masters were “of more than mortal knowledge”,
he was not long in asking to be allowed to write
to them. To this proposal Madame Blavatsky
agreed; a letter was given to her “addressed to
the universal Brotherhood” (the sub-title to the
already existing Theosophical Society), and out of
that small beginning arose The Mahatma Letters to
A. P. Sinnett. “A day or two afterwards I found
one evening on my writing-table the first letter
sent to me by my new correspondent” (O.JV.,
P- 65).
In the circumstances described, Mr. Sinnett was
not unreasonably persuaded that he had received
“by astral post” a letter from Tibet; and if he
had, his conviction was sound that his experience
not only marked an epoch in his own life, but also
in the unfoldment of human knowledge. For the
phenomenon suggested that long-accepted prin­
ciples as to time, space and matter were shaken
to their foundations. What could he do better
than make himself the evangelist of this startling
revelation, for which office, indeed, he seemed
to have been chosen? The Occult World, the first
literary fruit of Mr. Sinnett’s strange experience,
was published in London early in 1881.
28
S E C T I O N I I I
PUBLIC NOTICES OF THE LETTERS
T h e reception of The Occult World by the Theo-
sophical nucleus in India and the English reading
public constituted what was thought to be the
beginning of a new philosophic epoch, and fifty
years of writing, speaking and organizing have
since been based upon it. Men and women have
lived and died for the thesis once delivered by
unseen hands to Mr. Sinnett, for its elaboration
and fruition in the passing years, and for the philo­
sophical and hierarchical superstructure which last
of all has risen upon it. This being so, it is somewhat
surprising that the first complete presentation of
its authoritative documents, in the winter of 1923,
should have excited little interest, either in the
daily Press or in official Theosophical journals,
and should have passed quietly to the hands and
bookshelves of devotees and doubters without re­
ceiving acclamation or criticism worthy of its
importance. Whether it be that The Mahatma
Letters is considered too long to read, too dull to
enjoy or too dangerous to be acknowledged,
certain it is that, with a few exceptions, both
friends and foes have turned away from it as
though it were one of those long epitaphs, of which
Pope says: “One half will never be believed; the
other never read.”
29
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Official Disapproval
Four notices of The Mahatma Letters by members of
the Theosophical Society have come into our
hands. Even the most favourable is more apolo­
getic than enthusiastic, and coolly says the book
will be read by many “with consternation”. It
labours rather to prove Mr. Sinnett unworthy
to have received the Letters, and even treacherous
in his disclosure of them, than to prove them
worthy of our credence. Another reviewer, less
favourable than the first to the thesis of the book,
dispassionately puts it on the Index of Doubts,
scarcely concealing the fact that he thinks more
than he says.
Two semi-official notices of the book appeared
in a magazine formerly called Theosophy. One
deals only with a small point in Astrology, and
the other is a pathetic little review, in which
a highly-placed Theosophical leader regrets that
Mr. Sinnett did not see that it was his duty to
bequeath the Letters to the Society—whose pro­
perty they virtually are—in which case, it is said,
they would certainly not have been published.
The “Early Teachings” Criticized
The book received no official mention in The
Theosophist, but the Early Teachings of the Masters
(which may fairly be described as a “pocket edition”
of some of the Letters) was very candidly reviewed
in the February number (1925) by Mr. L. A.
30
Public Notices of the Letters
Compton-Rickett. This writer thinks that most
readers of the E.T.M. will glance through them
“with considerable surprise”. Questions may arise,
he says, as to the reasons for the late and unexplained
publication of these early teachings; also as to
whether their statements and style have been
“distorted”, and whether the “rough ore of the
gold of wisdom” has to be broken up and sifted
by the reader’s discrimination. The reviewer begins
with “salutations of profound reverence” to the
Masters, but at the same time he proposes to
remain “free, wholly free, to criticize” them
according to his measure of light. Briefly stated,
he finds the style of the E.T.M. “fragmentary,
forensic and partisan” ; he looks in vain for “com­
prehensive, judicial, dignified and tender” lan­
guage, and finds only contempt and scorn for
Western science and religion. The Masters deny
the real existence of the Christ as the founder of
Christianity, and only concede a mortal existence
to “the man Jeshu” ; while they replace his “all­
wise, all-loving, Heavenly Father” by the blind
forces of matter, energy and motion.
This “wholly free” criticism ends with Goethe’s
prayer for “more light” and a profound salutation
to “Those who speak from afar”.
Although Mr. Compton-Rickett’s review of the
E. T.M. appeared late enough after the publication
of The Mahatma Letters for him to have read the
latter book, he does not appear to have done so;
otherwise he would have received from it the “more
light” he prayed for. He would have realized not
3i
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
only why the early teachings were published so
late and were “unexplained”, but why they were
given out at all. Moreover, his question as to
whether they have been “distorted” would also
have received an answer, for what strikes him as
“the rough ore” of the E.T.M. is almost as fine
gold compared with The Mahatma Letters.
Mr. Sinnett’s Responsibility
As the literal publication of the Mahatmas’ Letters,
at any time and in any quantity or form, appears
to have agitated to no small extent the minds of
some of their disciples, and is supposed by many
to have been categorically forbidden—we think it
serviceable to say, without offering an opinion on
the wisdom of the course, that the announcement
to the Western world of the Mahatmas’ existence,
and the publication of the substance of their earlier
Letters, appears to us to have been not only per­
mitted but prompted and approved by the writers.
It is true that this authorization was afterwards
regretted and reversed, when its effects were
realized; but that is another matter. Although it
is clear that Mr. Sinnett was intellectually eager
to deliver the staggering challenge from Eastern
to Western science which The Occult World con­
tained, we are convinced, from reading it, and
more so from reading the Letters, that in doing
this he was not committing a Promethean theft of
the Mahatmic fire. On the contrary, it appears to
32
Public Notices of the Letters
us from the following passages that the torch was
deliberately put into his hand.
“Of course you ought to write your book,” says
the Master K.H. in Letter V. “Do so, by all means,
and any help I can give you I will. . . . Take
the Simla phenomena and your correspondence
with me as the subject” (p. 21). In Letter VIII the
same Master says: “I confess that I do take an
interest in this book and its success . . .” (p. 32).
“I lay no restrictions upon your making use of
anything I may have written to you or Mr. Hume,
having full confidence in your tact and judgment
as to what should be printed and how it should be
presented.” The writer then excepts from publica­
tion one Letter, and adds: “As to the rest—I
relinquish it to the mangling tooth of criticism”
(p. 34). Encouragement of this kind pursued Mr.
Sinnett to the very day of his embarkation for
Europe, where the book was to be brought out.
“Should you actually need now and again the
help of a happy thought as your work progresses,
it may, very likely be, osmosed into your head—if
sherry bars not the way, as it has already done at
Allahabad” (p. 37). An unkind cut, perhaps, this
last sentence; but could even John the Presbyter
have wanted a clearer commission of the Spirit
to write the letters to the seven Churches that were
in Asia?
Mr. Sinnett wrote The Occult World on the sea-
voyage to England, and based it on seven of the
eight Letters he had at that time received. Of the
thirty-six pages in the present book which these
33 c
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
eight Letters now occupy, only twenty, or a little
more than half, were used for The Occult World.
While in London putting it through the press, Mr.
Sinnett received warm commendations from the
Master in Tibet in Letter XXXI (which we think
ought to have been printed as Letter ix). “It is
from the depths of an unknown valley . . . that
your friend sends you these lines. . . . Your future
book is a little jewel” (p. 240). On returning to
India, Mr. Sinnett received by “phenomenal”
means—“It fell out of nothing, so to speak”—a
letter beginning: “Welcome, good friend and
brilliant author, welcome back! . . . And now,
what about the book?” (p. 38). . . . “The book is
out, and we have to patiently wait for the results
of that first serious shot at the enemy” (p. 50). A
small note numbered cxxi (which ought from the
date and contents to be Letter X) gratifies Mr.
Sinnett by telling him that the Master had pre­
sented The Occult World to his Master—“The
Chohan”—of whom more anon. Lastly on this
topic, at the end of LetterXLIX we learn that “your
Occult World was discussed and commented upon
at the Lamasery at Ghalaring-Tcho” (p. 286).
Although the arrival of the book in Tibet may
have seemed something like “coals carried to
Newcastle” to the Lamas, there is no hint that it
was regarded by them as an improper disclosure
of sealed knowledge to the Western world.
The Editor of The Occult Review, in a notice in
March, 1924, questions “the justification for pub­
lishing correspondence of the kind which its
34
Public Notices of the Letters
recipient was specifically instructed to treat as
confidential”. Another reviewer in the same maga­
zine says: “The letters, be it remembered, were
strictly secret, and were ordered, in a dozen places,
not to be published.” There is basis enough in the
Letters for the above remarks, but it must be
remembered, in justification of Mr. Sinnett, that
the inhibiting passages came too late; the outline
of approval traced above (with the hint dropped
on p. 201 with regard to Esoteric Buddhism) is clear
enough authority for Mr. Sinnett’s two books; he
published no Letters independently of these,
although it appears from the following passages in
Letter lx iii that he wished to do so and was
forbidden:
“When our first correspondence began, there
was no idea then of any publications being issued
on the basis of the replies you might receive”
(p. 356). “The letters, in short, were not written
for publication or public comment upon them,
but for private use, and neither M. nor I will ever
give our consent to see them thus handled” (p. 357).
35
S E C T I O N I V
THE MAHATMAS AT HOME
Geography and Topography of Tibet
As a preparation to the closer approach to the
Mahatmas and their physical habitat, we give a
sketch-map of Tibet, showing its Indian and
Chinese frontiers. As there is much difference
between the Mahatmas’ spelling of place-names
and that of modern maps, we think it best to use
the latter. When there is a significant variation, we
shall mention it. Lhasa is of course the heart of the
country, though not, apparently, the principal
abode of the Mahatmas, who often speak of their
journeys to it as “long”. The name of the for­
bidden city was written H’Lassa in the ’sixties of
last century; but the Mahatmas write it in three
ways in these Letters—L’Hassa, L’hassa and Lhassa.
Having passed in thought into the Mahatmas’
country, we must now obtain a general idea of
their activities, both as men and as “Masters”. We
must learn, if we can, who and how many they
are, where and how they live, whether they preach,
teach and travel, or study and operate in occult
retreat. Above all, we must learn what is the range
of their knowledge and their physical and mental
powers, and necessarily, how they write, send and
receive their Letters.
36
The Mahatmas at Home
The Mahatmas as Men and Masters
A few answers to the above questions are indicated
in the book before us and its associated publica­
tions. Only two Mahatmas are named as writers
of The Mahatma Letters—Koot Hoomi (K.H.) and
Morya (M.), and they alone are said to be instru­
mental in the dissemination in this age of the
Occult Philosophy (p. 367). They are not Tibetans,
but Indians; the first-named we take to have been
born in the Punjab just within the nineteenth
century. He came to Europe in his youth, says Mr.
Sinnett, for the purpose of study, and he himself
refers to “the little university education and inkling
of European manners that has fallen to my share”
(p. 15). A playful reference by K.H. to “Munich
beer-hall beauties” (p. 285) would suggest he
sojourned in Germany
A Jovial Mahatma
If Mahatma Morya was Madame Blavatsky’s
“guide” when she was a child—as we are told in
Mr. Sinnett’s Incidents in the Life ofH. P. Blavatsky—
he would have been born a Rajput a decade or
so before K.H., and would have watched over
little Helena’s first visit to England in the year
1844. It is not made clear in the Letters as to
whether M. has ever come West in the flesh,
although he is mentioned in the diaries of Colonel
Olcott and Madame Blavatsky as an astral visitant
to New York. K.H. says of him that he “knows
37
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
very little English and hates writing” (p. 84). He
is said to be stout of body and jovial of temper,
and he once mentions a stoical dinner he is about
to prepare, but doubts whether it would satisfy his
epicurean disciple. At another time, reclining in
Lhasa, he enjoys a pipe sent to him by Mr. Sinnett,
to replace one he broke in a Mahatmic rage (p. 431).
The liberty that Mahatma M. allows himself in
respect of tobacco smoking may not strike a Euro­
pean reader as worthy of remark, but when we
learn from two highly reputed British travellers in
Tibet that smoking is in that country regarded as
a crime, we wonder where Mahatma Morya
obtained his tobacco, how he escaped detection
in smoking it, or, in the alternative, from whom he
received special dispensation to indulge in it. Dr.
McGovern, the author of To Lhasa in Disguise, says:
“Tobacco smoking is in Tibet the most heinous
vice, the greatest crime against religion and de­
cency,” and Mr. George Knight, F.R.G.S., in a
note in The Theosophical Review, July, 1925, con­
firms this statement. He writes: “It is strictiy
forbidden to smoke in Tibet.”
Spiritual Discipline
K.H., without giving the locality of his abode,
speaks of his house as being “full of young and
innocent chelas” (p. 243) and of “preparations for
initiation” ; he is therefore by no means a solitary
liver, except on occasions of spiritual discipline.
Both the Brothers break off some of their Letters,
38
The Mahatmas at Home
whether long or short, with the abrupt remark that
they are “called to duty”, but we cannot visualize
what the duty is, or who imposes it. They speak
of their Brotherhood as a numerous body, and
imply its existence as a vast secret organization
existing for “millenniums” of years. They go to
Lhasa at the beginning of every Lunar Year to
take part in the elaborate festivals, and they
acknowledge the Dalai Lama as their “Priestly
King”. Shigatze (or Tchigadze) is a place more
often mentioned than any other, and several of
the Letters are said to have been written from
there. It is a little south of Lhasa, on the river
Tsang-po, and it would not surprise us to learn
that it is the exoteric abode of the Mahatmas.
Both Brothers describe themselves as Buddhists,
and call Gautama their “Lord”, and all their
references to the Tibetan people and the Lamas
are fraternal, though what is their organic con­
nection with the latter and the lamaseries it is im­
possible to say.
The Venerable Chohan
Above the Masters, as already said, is the “Chohan”,
sometimes called “venerable” or “all-powerful”. He
never writes letters, and is only reported as uttering
short and emphatic sentences on questions sub­
mitted to him. Very often he vetoes the plans of
the minor Brothers in their Western operations,
and his stern will is said to be an obstacle to many
coveted revelations which the disciples crave and
39
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
which the Mahatmas themselves say they would
willingly make. The Chohan seldom condescends
to give reasons for what he disallows. He is repre­
sented as generally severe, but occasionally in­
dulgent and benign, as, for instance, when he
“gently smiles from the corner of an eye, . . . ever
since he saw you (Mr. Sinnett) become President”
—of the “Eclectic” Branch of the Theosophical
Society (p. 319). At other times he speaks to K.H.
with patronizing approval of Mr. Sinnett, by
saying “This Peling” (i.e. European or English­
man) has “really redeeming qualities'’ (p. 396).
Again, for the excellence of his review of The
Perfect Way (a contemporary and perhaps a rival
revelation to the Mahatma Letters), Mr. Sinnett
is told that he is “beginning to attract the Chohan’s
attention” (p. 431).
The “Maha-Chohan” would seem to be a still
higher being than the Chohan, for he holds in his
awful hands the pledges for life and death given
by the “Inner Circle” of the Theosophical Society
(P- 325)-
The Mahatma's Feats of Endurance
Mahatma K.H. travels a good deal, and is capable
of astonishing endurance. A proposal sent to him
by letter from Mr. A. O. Hume, an associate of
Mr. Sinnett, cost him a journey to the northern
boundary of Tibet, to the mountains of “Kouen-
lun” (K’uenlun), to consult the Chohan (p. 12);
and at another time he had ridden “48 hours
40
The Mahatmas at Home
consecutively” (p. 422). On the same occasion he
“took no sleep for over 60 hours” (p. 24). Once
he even outdid this feat by remaining “for over
nine days in his stirrups without dismounting”
(p. 286). The Mahatma’s horse, we think, ought
to have been mentioned in these despatches.
The gateways leading into and out of Tibet are
in the north-west near Kashmir and in the south
at Sikkim Pass by way of Darjeeling. Hence we
sometimes find the Mahatmas in the flesh at these
places. K.H. comes through into Lhadak in
Kashmir and writes a note from there. Further, he
writes a long Letter (No. iv) at Amrita Saras, the
“Holy Pool” of Amritsar. A little later he comes
as far west as Jhelum in the Punjab, to send a
telegram.
‘‘Quick Communications'’
We may add that we have had the privilege of
seeing the Jhelum telegram, which seems to have
been sent in proof of a “phenomenon”, for the
Mahatma makes this comment on it in Letter iv:
“Received at Amritsar on the 27th inst., at 2 p.m.,
I got your letter about thirty miles beyond Rawul
Pindee, five minutes later, and had an acknow­
ledgment wired to you from Jhelum at 4 p.m. on
the same afternoon. Our modes of accelerated
delivery and quick communications are not then,
as you will see, to be despised by the Western
world” (p. 13). Lest the Western world, through
ignorance of Indian geography, should fail to
41
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
apprehend the nature of this particular wonder,
another reference to it in Letter v shows that the
“phenomenon” consisted in the receipt of a letter
at Amritsar at 2 p.m. and the despatch by the
receiver of an acknowledgment of it from Jhelum
(say two hundred English miles away) at 4 p.m.
(P- 19)-
It is perhaps an ironical coincidence that the
Mahatma’s Letter iv, in which he expatiates on
the “quick communications” of the astral post,
should have taken six days to reach Mr. Sinnett, for
it was dated at the Holy Pool, October 29th, and
was received at Allahabad on November 5th.
4 2
S E C T I O N V
THE MAHATMAS’ KNOWLEDGE
Claims to Infallibility
C o m in g to the theory advanced as to the range o f
the Mahatmas’ knowledge, it will suffice if we
give a few explicit statements of the claims made
for them by their disciples, as well as some pas­
sages in their own Letters relative to the fulness and
variety of the resources they have at hand.
To mention first the accepted form of the
Mahatmas’ title—“The Masters of the Wisdom”—
this is a claim significant enough, but we may add
to it Mr. Sinnett’s understanding of the content
of the title. In The Occult World he says: “I have
come into some contact with persons who are
heirs of a greater knowledge concerning the
mysteries of Nature and humanity than modern
culture has yet evolved; and my present wish is to
sketch the outlines of this knowledge” (p. i).
Farther on he says: “The clairvoyant faculties of
the adepts are so perfect and complete that they
amount to a species of omniscience as regards
mundane affairs” (p. n ). And again: “There is
reason to believe that such adepts have existed in
all historic ages. They constitute a Brotherhood, or
Secret .Association, which ramifies all over the
East, but the principal seat of which for the present
I gather to be in Thibet” (p. 20).
43
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“ The Absolute Truth”
In the Preface to the original edition of Esoteric
Buddhism, written two years later than The Occult
World, Mr. Sinnett restates in more confident terms
his view of the Mahatmas’ knowledge, and enlarges
on its particulars. He says: “In the course of ages
the block of knowledge thus accumulated, con­
cerning the origin of the world and of man and the
ultimate destinies of our race—concerning also the
nature of other worlds and states of existence . . .
has come to be looked on by its custodians as
constituting the absolute truth concerning spiritual
things.” . . . “The secret doctrine* which, to a
considerable extent, I am now enabled to expound,
is regarded . . . as a mine of entirely trustworthy
knowledge. . . . This is a bold claim indeed, but
I venture to announce the following exposition as
one of immense importance to the world, because
I believe that claim can be substantiated” (xv-xvi).
‘‘Mahatma-Attributes’’
The substantiation promised by Mr. Sinnett in his
Preface is worked out in twelve chapters in the
book, only the first of which, on Esoteric Teachers,
concerns us here. It repeats the claims made above,
and elaborates the picture of the arduous and
exalted life of the Adepts. We conclude these
* It is of interest to note the first use here by Mr. Sinnett of the
words “secret doctrine,” which became the title of Madame Bla-
vatsky’s subsequent book.
44
The Mahatmas’ Knowledge
extracts with a somewhat puzzling attempt by Mr.
Sinnett to reconcile the admitted fallibility of the
Mahatmas in certain matters with their omniscience
in others. He says: “While the adept may be a man
quite surprisingly liable to err sometimes in the
manipulation of worldly business . . . on the other
hand, directly a Mahatma comes to deal with the
higher mysteries of spiritual science, he does so by
virtue of the exercise of his Mahatma-attributes,
and in dealing with these can hardly be recognized
as liable to err” (E.B. Annotations, pp. 17—18).
Although Mr. Sinnett’s testimony, in the pages
from which we have quoted, is emphatic enough,
it cannot be said that the high claims he makes
for his teachers are consistent or convincing. In
his first book he says the clairvoyant Mahatmas
have “a species of omniscience as regards mundane
affairs”. Hence we are not prepared for the state­
ment in the second book that they are “liable to
err . . . in worldly business”. We are curious to
know, in the first place, whether “a species of
omniscience” is something less than absolute and
universal omniscience, and if so, whether it is
anything more than “liability to err”. In the
second place, may we inquire what is the differ­
ence between the “mundane affairs” of The Occult
World and the “worldly business” of Esoteric
Buddhism? If, as the terms seem to imply, they both
describe one class of things, there cannot be much
to choose between a species of omniscience attach­
ing to the first and liability to err attaching to the
second. In any case it is hard to divine why the
45
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Mahatmas undertake worldly business at all—if they
do—if it brings them under the just censure of in­
ferior men. For wherever a Mahatma is liable to
err, he is on a level with his pupil in matters where
the pupil can test him, which is to his disadvantage
as a teacher.
The Mahatmas’ Libraries
Of more interest to us, perhaps, as showing the
Mahatmas to be men of like passions with our­
selves, are the statements made in the Letters with
regard to the intellectual facilities available to the
Tibetan teachers. Let it be granted that in the
exercise of their “Mahatma-attributes” they are
(as they say) “the keepers of the sacred light”
(p. 215) and the guardians of “the Tree of Life and
Wisdom” (p. 31), yet we cannot say it is nothing
to us that they are also the curators of the biggest
and most complete library in existence. Mahatma
K.H. tells us that he and his Brothers have “the
privilege of taking out whole sentences from the
dictionary of Pai-Wouen-Yen-Fu the greatest in the
world, full of quotations from every known writer,
and containing all the phrases ever used” (p. 364).
The Book of Kin-te
In addition to the super-Samuel-Johnson dictionary
just mentioned, the Mahatmas tell us they possess
an archaic book amounting in bulk to “volumes
upon volumes” (p. 81). It is in several places called
46
The Mahatmas' Knowledge
(with the freedom of spelling so characteristic
of these Letters) the Book of Kinte, Kin-ti, Kin-tee,
Khin-te and Khintee; but we are also told that it
is “vulgarly pronounced” Kin-to, which strikes us
as strange, seeing that it is elsewhere called a
“secret book”. Mr. Jinarajadasa (following The
Secret Doctrine) prints it Kiu-ti, but however spelt or
catalogued, it is held to be an authoritative work,
several times mentioned almost with awe, but
never literally quoted. K.H. says that Madame
Blavatsky “knows it by rote”, and would translate
it if requested. Once we get something like a peep
into its pages, when K.H. says that in reading
Baron D’Holbach’s Essais sur la Nature,* “I might
have imagined I had our book of Kin-ti before me”
(P- *55)-
“Your Western Sciences”
Judging from the mention throughout the book of
about thirty modern philosophical and scientific
writers (among them Grant Allen, Brewster, Bucke,
Crookes, Cuvier, Darwin, Dawkins, Edison, Fara­
day, Fiske, Flammarion, Geikie, Hamilton, Halley,
Huxley, Lockyer, Lubbock, Phipson, Priestley,
Pritchard, Raleigh, Cowper Ranyard, Ross,
Siemens, Spencer, Tyndall and Wallace) and
from the vigorous polemics maintained against
some of them, or the patronizing approval lavished
* Perhaps this writer’s Systems de la Nature is in the Mahatma’s
mind. The work was known in the eighteenth century as “The Bible
of Atheism”, and its author reputed as the greatest materialist of
his time.
47
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
upon others, we conclude that although the East,
by the occult hypothesis, has nothing to learn from
the West, yet it takes note of its many floundering
errors and its few and fortunate “guesses at truth”.
Let the Mahatma K.H. himself bear witness to this
attitude of mind in his remarkable Letter xxn,
dealing mainly with Science. It is consistent with
the East’s constant tone of contempt for Western
science that the Mahatma should in the following
passage entirely disavow any indebtedness to it:
“I am no man of science with regard to, or in
connection with modern learning. My knowledge
of your Western Sciences is very limited in fact; and
you will please bear in mind that all my answers
are based upon, and derived from, our Eastern
occult doctrines regardless of their agreement or
disagreement with those of exact science” (p. 166).
The Cosmic Scroll
But, when all is said, the Mahatmas’ most quoted
and most trusted books are not “the running
brooks” of Nature, or the skin-bound tomes of the
Lamaseries, or even the incoming new editions (if
any) from the Western publishers. Their constantly
read and most authoritative records are in the
“Akasic Library” itself, on the primeval passive
pages of the Ether. “Notyour ether”, the Mahatma
hastens to remark (p. 166), and we note the fact,
which we had already suspected.
An image of everything that is or ever was is
“impressed upon the Akasa”, and it is part of the
48
The Mahatmas’ Knowledge
“Mahatma-attributes” to be able at will to read it.
“When you write upon some subject you surround
yourself with books of references, etc.; when we
write upon something the Western opinion about
which is unknown to us, we surround ourselves
with hundreds of paras: upon this particular topic
from dozens of different works—impressed upon the
Akasa” (p. 364).
This power of reading the Akasa is, then, the
crown of the Mahatmas’ powers; it is the know­
ledge of knowledges, the Aaron’s rod of all their
other abilities, for it can go back to the deep
deposits of the past, it can skim the cream of current
events, and look “down the arches of the years”, to
things yet to be. To show that we are in no way
stretching the Mahatmas’ claim, let us quote K.H.’s
own words:
“I have a habit of often quoting, minus quota­
tion marks—from the maze of what I get in the
countless folios of our Akasic libraries (“our
libraries”, quotha!) so to say—with eyes shut.
Sometimes I may give out thoughts that will see
light years later; at other times what an orator, a
Cicero may have pronounced ages earlier, and at
others, what was not only pronounced by modern
lips but already either written or printed”
(P- 324)-
A poet has said that “a little learning is a
dangerous thing”, but what would he have thought
of the risks attending the possession of a “Mahatma-
attribute”, and of the quantity and quality of the
incoming knowledge sketched in the above extract?
49 D
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Who would desire the uncertainties of wandering
blindfold in this Akasic “maze”—where past,
present and future, speech, writing and printing,
were rolled into one—if a little “Western” twilight
might instead be had, bringing back into view the
familiar guideposts of time, space and quotation
marks, and other homely utilities?
Portraits of the Mahatmas
The privilege of seeing the Mahatmas face to face,
enjoyed as a matter of course by Madame Blavat-
sky, was held out by her to their more earnest
disciples as one of the fruits of successful probation.
Although in course of time this prospect became
more and more a far-off occult event, Mr. Sinnett
was privately encouraged to hope for some appro­
priate recognition of his exceptional services. At an
early date in the Mahatmic revelation, he was
granted—accidently, as it seemed, and in a half­
waking state—a vision of K.H. “in astral form”, as
he recorded on a leaf of one of his Master’s letters.
There was nothing to show, however, that his
assurance arose from a recognition of his visitor’s
features, for he had never seen them in the flesh
or in a picture. His belief in the apparition was an
inference from the fact that an object mysteriously
removed from his bedroom had been restored next
day in another place as an “occult phenomenon”.
Nevertheless, it was reasonable that Mr. Sinnett,
selected as the Mahatmas’ missioner to the Western
world, should require some more definite know-
50
MAHATMA ROOT HOOMI
From a Drawing attributed to a German Artist, Herr Schmiechen
The Mahatmas'1 Knowledge
ledge as to what manner of men, physically con­
sidered, his teachers were, and it is evident from
the correspondence that H.P.B. held out to him
and to others hopes of the gratification of their
desires through the medium of portraiture. In
this way faith would be fortified and opposition
broken down. The following extracts are an outline
of the promise and its performance.
This Picture—and That
1. In Letter x l i x , from K.H., dated August 5,
1881, we find the Mahatma responding to Mr.
Sinnett’s request to be allowed to possess his
portrait. “Never had but one taken in my life,”
he replied, “a poor ferrotype produced in the
days of the ‘Gaudeamus’—yet I may try—some
day to get you one” (p. 285).
2. From an early but undated Blavatsky letter we
learn that Olcott had sent a crayon drawing of
Mahatma M. to the photographer’s for repro­
duction, and that H.P.B. had afterwards sent a
copy of it to Mr. Sinnett, not without reproaches
for his curiosity in asking her “Boss” for it
{B.L., p. 8).
3. In Letter li, from K.H., received August 22, ’82,
the Mahatma says that the “best of the two pro­
ductions of D. Khool” is for Mr. Sinnett (p. 287).
To this artistic effort there was an illuminating
sequel.
4. In an early edition of The Occult World Mr.
Sinnett had given the world an account of the
5i
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
phenomenal production of portraits of K.H. In
the two collections of Letters there are com­
munications correcting his version of the occur­
rence; both writers supporting their criticisms
by citing the evidence of the elusive chela Djual
Kool, who had a reputation for artistic talent. It
is impossible, from reading these strange and
rather confused epistles, to attribute the results
obtained with certainty to any one hand, for
H.P.B., D.K. and Mahatma M. were all con­
cerned in producing them. All we know is that
H.P.B., on being teased to obtain a portrait of
K.H., “said she would try”, that blank sheets
of paper were “left in the scrap book”, that
“something happened during lunch” and that
an inferior portrait was at first precipitated.
H.P.B. being dissatisfied with it—and she alone
could judge of its correctness—a second and
better attempt—“interfered with”, however, by
“M. Sahib”—came out (B.L., p. 27; M L ,p . 184,
dated Autumn, 1882).
5. The qualified success of the experiment above
mentioned resulted in a deep impression being
made on the mind of one Colonel Chesney—not
at the time a Theosophist, but in process of
convincement. In consequence, the flattered
chela begged permission “to precipitate another
likeness”, for presentation to the Colonel. “Of
course the permission was granted,” says K.H.,
“and the picture was ready three minutes after
I had consented to it, and D.K. seemed enor­
mously proud of it. He says—and he is right, I
52
The Mahatmas’ Knowledge
think, that this likeness is the best of the three”
(M.L., p. 300).
A German Artist
6 . In Letter l x , undated, but placed between
others of 1883-4, and probably received in
Europe, the Mahatma divines that his disciple
Mr. Sinnett is “wandering about in a dark
labyrinth of doubt” upon matters not clearly
indicated. One of these doubts must have been
in regard to the portraits, for the letter ends with
this comforting observation: “I believe you are
now satisfied with my portrait made by Herr
Schmiechen and as dissatisfied with the one you
have? Yet all are like in their way. Only while
others are the productions of chelas, the last one
was painted with M.’s hand on the artist’s head,
and often on his arm” (M.L., p. 349).
7. From a late letter of H.P.B.’s, dated January 6,
1886, from Wurzburg, it appears that the
German artist had made a replica, though not a
perfectly exact one, of his first attempt. For
H.P.B., in course of an apologetic argument,
says, by way of illustration: “No painter can
paint twice over the same likeness (See Schmie­
chen with his (Master’s) portraits)” (M.L.,
p. 480).
In the extracts given above we have pieced
together the whole story of the “counterfeit pre­
sentments” of the Mahatmas, so far as the two
53
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
collections of the Letters furnish us with material.
We cannot say that it is a coherent story, or that,
as a catalogue raisonee of the occult school of por­
traiture, it leads to any very definite conclusions.
Accepting the account of the origin of the pictures,
what has been their destination? We cannot hope
to see again the “poor ferrotype” of K.H.’s student
days, or the “crayon drawing” done by, or belong­
ing to, Olcott. And since the first attempt on K.H.
by Djual Kool was confessed “a failure”, that, too,
must be out of circulation. The second, which was
completed in twenty-seven minutes, and would
have been better if not “interfered with” by M.,
passed, nevertheless, into the hands of Mr. Sinnett,
who in time grew dissatisfied with it. The third, of
which the artist was “enormously proud”, was done
in three minutes, though what became of this occult
masterpiece—“the best of the three”—we cannot
say, for it was sent, by a not too trustworthy mes­
senger, to Colonel Chesney. But bad, better and
best were all “the productions of chelas” ; Herr
Schmiechen’s were in a class by themselves. For did
not Mahatma M. place his magnetic hand “on the
artist’s head, and often on his arm” ?
From the fact that the two portraits of the
Mahatmas which find a place in our pages are
reduced from photographs obtained in Germany,
and accepted as authentic (so far as we know) in
Theosophical circles, we incline to the opinion that
they would pass among the art experts of the move­
ment as the work of Herr Schmiechen. And if the
hand of M., placed on the artist’s head, guaranteed
54
The Mahatmas'1 Knowledge
the correctness of K.H.’s portrait, would not
K.H.’s hand, similarly employed, make authentic
the portrait of his brother sage? We say this because
the two portraits, judged by standards of draughts­
manship, seem to be the work of one hand, and to
possess similar qualities and defects.
55
S E C T I O N V I
THE FIRST EIGHT LETTERS
“The Occult World” Series Examined
In the foregoing pages we have done our best to
collect from scattered places all the narratives and
features which might help to compose the Mahatmas
into what one of them calls “thinkable entities”, and
we now propose to leave the writers and come to
their Letters.
It is impossible to give a detailed analysis of any
group of Letters, or indeed of any single Letter, but
it will be profitable to begin this Section with a
brief abstract of Letter i, which is typical of the
whole series. It is not dated by the writer, but was
received at Simla about October 18, 1880. Madame
Blavatsky says (B.L., p. 11) that it was written at
the Toling monastery in Tibet. The Letter was a
reply to the last of three of Sinnett’s of unknown
date, and followed a conversation at Hume’s
(which the writer asserts he overheard) about the
“Simla phenomena”.
BriefAbstract ofLetter I
Letter 1 begins: “Esteemed Brother and Friend,
Precisely because the test of the London newspaper
would close the mouths of skeptics—it is unthink­
able.” This sentence is explained by the fact that
56
The First Eight Letters
Mr. Sinnett, wishing to give the Western world “a
staggering proof” of the Mahatma’s existence and
powers (of which he had been convinced by
Madame Blavatsky’s phenomena), had proposed
as a test the “precipitation” in London of a copy
of The Pioneer newspaper of India on the day of its
publication. The proposed test was declined, and
the Letter gives reasons why—even if successfully
carried out—such a demonstration would fail to
convince either the Western scientific mind or the
general multitude.
As a typical representative of the materialist
philosophy and rooted prejudice of the West, “Lord
Verulam-Bacon” is exhumed; a personage not
recognized, strictly speaking, by history or heraldry,
for Francis Bacon parted with his surname when
he became Baron Verulam. In addition to this in­
congruous title, the philosopher is credited with
having helped to found the Royal Society in 1662,
although he died in 1626. Doubtless this mistake
is the source of the belief, still held in Theosophical
Lodges, that Bacon was himself a “Master of the
Wisdom”, and lived far beyond the normal span of
years,in spite of the witness ofhis tomb in St.Albans.
Literature and Logic
The last paragraph of the Letter embodies an
important error, and is the keynote to a number of
loose references to the Christian scriptures through­
out the Letters. The passage not only betrays the
writer’s misreading of the New Testament text, but
57
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
also his indifference to the principles of proof; two
points which are no light matters in controversy.
Urging Mr. Sinnett to assert and publish what he
has seen and known of Occultism, the Mahatma
gives what he believes to have been the sole basis
in evidence for the Christian faith: “Remember
that there was but one hysterical woman alleged to
have been present at the pretended ascension. . . .
Yet for nearly 2,000 years countless milliards have
pinned their faith upon the testimony of that one
woman—and she not over trustworthy” (p. 5).
The word “ascension” is used above in mistake
for “resurrection”, which occurrence (the writer
forgets) not even “one hysterical woman” is said in
the records to have actually witnessed. As to the
“ascension”, the witnesses to it (the Mahatma
should have known) are said to have been a con­
siderable number.
Therefore upon the basis ofthe supposed Christian
precedent of the triumph of one woman’s personal
assurance over commonly accepted concepts of
natural law, the Mahatma urges Mr. Sinnett to
make the most of the signs and wonders granted
to him, and to build upon his bare assertion of
these trivial phenomena a world-wide belief in the
existence of the Mahatmas and the truth of their
Occult philosophy.
The least that one can say of this Letter is that
the beginning and the end of it are somewhat
contradictory. A public that would not believe
though one brought a copy of The Pioneer to London
wet from the Indian press, is expected to “digest”
58
The First Eight Letters
the stories “of the production of the note, the cup
and the sundry experiments with cigarette papers”
(p. 5), and make them the basis of a revolution in
religion, science and philosophy.
The range of knowledge claimed in the Letter
is such as the experience of human nature for
“long centuries, aye, ages” has taught the writer,
but its pages do not show any verifiable facts that
could not be collected by diligent reading in the
proper quarters. Apart, also, from the textual
and logical faults already mentioned, the Letter
contains a large number of errors in fact, spelling
and punctuation.
A Vision, a Voice and an Avalanche
The rest of the Letters in the “Occult” series
contain little matter of exactly that description
compared with a high proportion dealing with
Theosophical policy and personal criticism.
Letter ma, however, is an exception; it is headed
by Mr. Sinnett with a curious note: “I saw K.H.
in astral form on the night of 19th ofOctober 1880.”
He also saw “another of the Brothers” whom he
did not know. Colonel Olcott afterwards told him
this was “Serapis”—“the youngest of the chohans”
(p. 10). Since Mr. Sinnett did not know “Serapis”
at first sight, how did he know K.H. at first sight,
who—by the way—had quickly made an exception
to a Rule, just notified, against crossing the
thresholds of flesh-eating, wine-drinking and un­
pledged disciples?
59
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Letter iv is written in India, and is one of the
few dated documents to which the Mahatmas
have put their hands. K.H. writes: “The other day
as I was coming down the defiles of Kouenlun—
Karakorum you call them—I saw an avalanche
tumble. I had gone personally to our chief—and
was crossing over to Lhadak on my way home.”
During the “awful stillness which usually follows
such a cataclysm—a familiar voice—shouted along
the currents ‘Olcott has raised the very devil
again! The Englishmen are going crazy. Koot
Hoomi, come quicker and help me’.” It was a
psychological “telegram” from the “old lady”
(Madame Blavatsky). “So I determined,” he goes
on, “to emerge from the seclusion of many years
and spend some time with her and comfort her
as well as I could.” In a few days in India, un­
fortunately, he heard and saw among his own
countrymen too many things discomforting for
himself—drunkenness, declamation “against Tog
Vidya and Theosophy, as a delusion and a lie,”
and blank scepticism of phenomena! “I turn my
face homeward to-morrow” (p. 12). Poor comfort
this for Madame Blavatsky, that her Master should
make haste to cross the frontier on a healing
errand, and be turned from his purpose by the
adverse conditions which his patient and pupil has
to endure. Strange, moreover, that a Master who had
heard an imperative call when “coming down the
defiles of the Kouenlun”, should have been deaf
to it when within a railway journey of his objective.
We are also entitled to ask why he found “the
60
The First Eight Letters
stifling magnetism” of India so overpowering on
October 29th, seeing that (as stated in Letters ma
and mi) he had been astrally present to Mr. Sinnett
on the 19th and Madame Blavatsky on the 20th
of the same month for the purpose of carrying out
the “brooch” phenomenon?
Apart from the points just mentioned, the
topography of the avalanche story is somewhat
confused.* The mountains of “Kouenlun (or
K’uenlun) lie to the north between Mongolia
and Tibet, and we do not call them “Karakorum”.
We use that name for a range in Kashmir (India)
which rims parallel to the western part of the bigger
northern range. We believe the law of contra­
diction holds good on the “Roof of the World” as
everywhere else; therefore, if the avalanche was
in K’uenlun it was not in Karakoram; and if in
Karakoram it was not in K’uenlun. For ourselves,
we lean to Karakoram, because from there the
Mahatma could “cross over into Lhadak” (still in
India) on his “way home” to Tibet; from K’uenlun
he could not, unless his home is in India, which
surely it is not!
Tampering with the Mails
Letter v introduces us to an occult facility of the
Mahatmas for the hastening of the “outward mail”,
if we may call it so, to Tibet, or wherever the
addressee may be staying at the time. It is called
osmosis, a term borrowed from biology, where it is
* See map facing p. 36.
6l
MAHATMA MORYA
From a Drawing attributed to a Gertnan Artist,Herr Schmiechen
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
used to describe a phenomenon constantly taking
place in animal and vegetable bodies. The rising of
sap against the action of gravity in trees and plants
is called by this term, which, by a curious analogy,
the Mahatma employs for the abstraction from
their envelopes of letters addressed to him while
they are in the post. “I have your letter ofNov. 19th,
abstracted by our special osmosis from the envelope
at Meerut, and yours to our ‘old lady’ in its half
empty registered shell safely sent on to Cawnpore,
to make her swear at me. But she is too weak to
play at the astral postman just now” (p. 17).
Enter Master Morya
Letter vn intimates that Mr. Sinnett, by his loyalty
to the Cause, has “thereby won a friend—one,
far higher and better than myself—he belongs to
the ‘Foreign Section’.” This new friend is none
other than Mahatma Morya, whose cosmos-
grasping mind will enter the correspondence in
our Philosophical Section with the two great
Letters on cyclic and human evolution. Meanwhile
K.H. warns his pupil against seeking signs. “Ask
for no phenomena for a while, as it is but such
paltry manifestations which now stand in your way”
(p. 26).
Letter vm is a long, rambling, exculpatory and
sentimental document. “You understand, do you
not, that it is no fault of mine if I cannot meet you
as I would?” And “direct communication . . .
would be conceded at once, did it depend but of
62
The First Eight Letters
me alone” (p. 27). The truth must be said, “the
Chiefs” are adamant. Why? Since they never give
reasons, K.H. furnishes pages full of the best he
can think of. One is that Colonel Olcott, though
a founder, never has “tangible visits”. Why, then,
should Mr. Sinnett expect them? Moreover, to
make good his inability to set up direct communi­
cation, K.H. goes into the very technique of
transcendental acoustics, “to confound your
physicists” who are unacquainted with “the occult
powers of air (akas)” (p. 29).
Universal Brotherhood
Two other matters must be mentioned before we
leave The Occult World Section. One is the growing
heat and unpleasing nature of the personal criti­
cisms in the Letters, and the other, a more agree­
able one, is the frequent plea for the idea of a
“Universal Brotherhood”. There is much talk of
starting an Anglo-Indian Branch of the Theo-
sophical Society, for which a “Charter” is very
nearly forthcoming. But the thing that is said to
be nearest the Mahatma’s heart is the Brother­
hood. “You have ever discussed but to put down
the idea of a universal Brotherhood. . . . This, my
respected and esteemed friend and Brother—will
never do! (p. 8). “The new society, if formed at
all, must contribute to the vitality of the Parent
body” by promoting its leading idea of a “Uni­
versal Brotherhood” (p. 9). “The Chiefs want a
‘Brotherhood of Humanity’, a real Universal
63
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Fraternity started”—“where all will become co­
workers of nature, will work for the good of
mankind with and through the higher planetary
Spirits—the only ‘Spirits’ we believe in”. A con­
cluding paragraph in Letter vi contains the words:
“Plato was right: ideas rule the world” (pp. 23-24).
“Plato was right.” Here our review of The
Occult World series must needs stop, for in these
words we think we scent the morning air of
Philosophy, which announces that we have arrived
at Section n of The Mahatma Letters, and the first of
the sixteen important communications it contains.
64
PART II
T H E I N V E S T I G A T I O N
S E C T I O N V I I
THE PHILOSOPHICAL SECTION
Substance and Accident
T he second part of our book is divided into eight
sections, the first four of which treat of the philo­
sophical and doctrinal contents of the Letters;
the fifth shows their style, and the remaining three
examine the theories advanced as to the manner
of their production.
Considering what is the main motive of our
writing, and the definite quest that lies before us,
we do not think we are obliged to give a sub­
stantial exposition of the philosophy of the Letters.
For this there are at least three good reasons.
First, because the Mahatmas themselves did not
attempt such an exposition, but left to Mr. Sinnett
the task of editing a series of private and discursive
communications, and building them into an in­
telligible system. Second, because larger and more
authoritative works have in later years been added
to the Theosophical Canon; and third, because
even though we might produce a philosophic
statement that would do the Mahatmas some
credit, we feel that the answer to the question on
our title-page does not depend on our knowing
what the Mahatmas wrote most about, but rather
on the smaller and less deliberate disclosures made
in the writings. In this opinion an authority no
67
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
less eminent than Francis Bacon would support us;
for in his Advancement of Learning he says: “It cometh
often to pass that mean and small things discover
great, better than great can discover small.”
“Esoteric Buddhism”
But whether we seek to discover great things or
small, we do not pretend that a task will be easy
for us which occupied the trained mind of the
editor of The Pioneer of India for nearly two years,
while the Letters on philosophy came pouring in
from the pens of the voluble Mahatmas. The fruit
of these labours—Esoteric Buddhism—was the second
of Mr. Sinnett’s books, and the third Theosophical
classic; the following references to its origins and
the changing estimates passed upon it will show
that the writer, though ever in his Tibetan task­
master’s eye, was not always in his good opinions.
“Writing a new book, or for the Theosophist?”
asks K.H. in Letter xxv, the last of the series
classified by the editor as “Philosophical”. “Well,
do you not think that . . . you had better write
the former as well as for the latter? . . . Esoteric
Buddhism—an excellent title by the bye” (p. 201).
“Some Vital Errors”
Eight months later, in October, 1883, the Mahatma
writes: “You have heard of the step H.P.B. was
permitted to take?” (Madame B. was, we believe,
retiring.) “A fearful responsibility is cast upon Mr.
68
The Philosophical Section
Olcott; a still greater—owing to the O.W. and
Esot. Buddhism—upon you. . . . Tour Karma, good
friend, this time” (p. 323). Evidently Mr. Sinnett,
in giving these two books to the world, was held
to have cast occult pearls before swine, “desecrated
the Masters”, and brought ridicule upon the
Theosophical Society, or made some other but not
specified mistakes. Still, it must have been con­
soling for him to be told, six months later, that
“no one, so far, has noticed the real vital errors
in Esoteric Buddhism . . . nor are they likely to”
(p. 357). We admire this loyalty of an omniscient
Master to an erring pupil, but would it not have
been better in the end to have corrected rather
than consoled him in regard to “real vital errors” ?
But apparently Mahatma’s ways are as far from
our ways as the East is from the West, for in
another Letter we learn that K.H. had allowed a
woman Chela to write a book called Man, and “had
to leave her under her self-delusion that this new
book was written with the view of ‘correcting the
mistakes of Esoteric Buddhism’ (—of killing it—was
the true thought)” (p. 361). An astonishing piece of
gossip this, coming from the pen of a Master of
the Wisdom! Still, who writes last writes best—if we
may vary the proverb—for Mr. Sinnett and a man
Chela were allowed to “look over” the woman
writer’s Man, and erase from it her mistakes! We
wonder what explanation the Mahatma gave of
this curious and humorous proceeding to the
authoress of Man.
69
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“The Only Right Exposition”
Two more Letters having reference to Esoteric
Buddhism must be quoted, both showing the book
restored to favour; one is from K.H. and the
other from H.P.B. In a Letter marked Strictly
Confidential, dealing for the most part with Indian
political affairs, the Mahatma thinks it a fit occa­
sion to confirm his testimony to the seeming
soundness of his pupil’s work. “With a few unde­
tectable mistakes and omissions notwithstanding,
your Esoteric Buddhism is the only right exposition
—however incomplete—of our Occult doctrines”
(P- 392).
In the last Letter but one from H.P.B. (M.L.,
p. 481), the retired founder, hard at work on
The Secret Doctrine, employs the Master’s strange
metaphor of “book-killing”. The new work “will
be 20 times as learned, philosophical and better
than Isis which will be killed by it.” She goes on
to say: “The extreme lucidity of Esoteric Buddhism
will also be shown and its doctrines proven correct
mathematically, geometrically, logically and scien­
tifically.”*
Theosophy without “ Theos”
The foregoing episode in Theosophical history has
been recalled to show the doctrinal position to
which the Society had been committed by the
* This promise was not exactly fulfilled. “Esoteric Buddhismsays
H.P.B. in the Introduction to The Secret Doctrine, “was an excellent
work with a very unfortunate title”—a reversal of the Mahatma’s
commendation: “An excellent title, by the bye.”
70
The Philosophical Section
events and revelations of the years 1880 to 1883.
First, the Simla phenomena—“the production of
the note, the cup and the sundry experiments with
cigarette papers”—had resulted in the convince-
ment of Mr. Sinnett of the existence of the Tibetan
Brothers, and the writing of The Occult World. Then
from these freshly opened but a little suspected
oracles came later the new philosophy, which, to
the surprise of many adherents in India and
England, proved to be a diluted form of Buddhism,
something like old wine in new bottles. Hence the
significance of the compliment paid to Mr. Sinnett
by the revealing Mahatma himself when the new
book was nearing its completion. “Esoteric Budd­
hism—an excellent title by the bye.” Yes; excellent
for Buddhists to have the burdensome “Theos”—
which had no place in their system—put down
from its seat, but embarrassing for Christians and
other Theists in the Society to find “spiritual
monads” and “Dhyan Chohans” exalted in its
stead. This the events of succeeding years proved in
crisis after crisis, while the anomalous “Theos” re­
mained emblazoned on the Society’s banner.
Theosophia: the Word and the Doctrine
In order to appreciate the significance of the
formal committal of the Theosophical Society in
1883 to doctrines said to be Buddhistic, it will be
well to take advantage of the historical juncture
just reached to make a brief review of the original
and fundamental Theosophical idea.
7i
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Theos means “God” and sophia means “wisdom”,
and the two together make the compound Theo-
sophia, generally translated “Divine wisdom”. This
wisdom, when first held to be present in the mind
of man, was considered to be a mystical experience,
not an intellectual acquirement. Moreover, it was
not presumed as a general human possession, but
was noted as a rare and inconstant occurrence.
Nevertheless, in a case where it was rightly claimed,
“Divine wisdom” was necessarily direct and
authoritative.
Most writers admit that Ammonius Saccas of
Alexandria (a .d . 200) was the first teacher of the
Theosophical doctrine, but Porphyrius the Neo-
Platonist (a .d . 270) is in fact the first recorded user
of the word. Eusebius says of him that his “collec­
tion of oracles” was written “to encourage the study
of that wisdom which he called Theosophia”
(.Praep. Ev. IV, 6, p. 144). Thenceforward the idea
of Theosophia, as an attainment due to the proper
direction of the mind towards its spiritual object,
ran through Neo-Platonism, and in time it entered
the Christian Church. In later centuries men and
women arose who claimed to be “wise in the things
of God” by internal communication. Nevertheless
the word Theosophia gradually passed out of use,
and the experience it designated became more and
more suspect by the authorities of the Church.
The word Theosophia returned to use during the
Renaissance, and occurred in the alchemical
writings of Paracelsus (1540), the sermons of
Eckhart, and the mystical treatises ofJacob Boehme
72
The Philosophical Section
(see his Of 177 Theosophic Questions, 1624). The
present Pope bears, among other titles, one of
“Doctor of Theosophy”, and Swedenborg, the
visionary, is classed as a Theosophist in Schaff-
Herzog’s Encyclopaedia.
Theosophy’s Star in the West
Of mystical Theosophy little or nothing was known
in Europe during the nineteenth century outside
the pages of dictionaries and encyclopaedias. Hence
it is hardly probable that the foundation in New
York of the Theosophical Society by Madame
Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott in 1875 represented
the re-emergence of the old Nile water from some
deep meanders under land and sea. Apart from its
name, the new Society derived nothing from
Alexandrian sources, and if its declared objects
were an interpretation of its name, these would
indicate only the meaning the word “Theoso­
phical” then and there carried in the minds of
the founders and the general public. The objects
of the Society were these:
1. To form a nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood
ofhumanity, without distinction ofrace, creed,
or colour.
2. To promote the study of Aryan and other
Eastern literatures, religions and sciences, and
demonstrate the importance of that study.
3. To investigate unexplained laws of Nature
and the psychical powers latent in man.
73
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
It is clear from these objects that Theosophy in
this, its second historical phase, was not a mystical
cult, but a scientific, literary and ethical pursuit.
Isis Veiled and Unveiled
The first literary achievement of the combined
talents of the Theosophical founders was the
production in 1877 of the book Isis Unveiled, which
went to Egypt for its title, though not to that
country more than to any other for the body of
its doctrine. Consequently it did not “unveil”
its titular goddess in any special manner. The book
was attributed to Madame Blavatsky as its author,
dedicated by her to the Theosophical Society, and
issued in its name as a definite challenge to the
religious and scientific teachers of the world. Its
main proposition was that all varieties of religion
and science were one in substance, and traceable to
a common origin called “The Wisdom Religion”.
Moreover, the central religious doctrine of Isis
Unveiled (if words have a definite meaning) was in
character Theistic. To this the following sentences
from its Preface testify: (1) “They [the Oriental
Adepts] showed us that by combining Science with
Religion, the existence of God and the immor­
tality of man’s spirit may be demonstrated like a
problem of Euclid” ; (2) “Ex nihilo nihil jit: prove
the soul of man by its wondrous powers—you have
proved God” (p. xii).
It must, however, be clear from the review just
made that the compendium of religion and science
74
The Philosophical Section
offered to the world in 1877 from New York, even
if it had in it any element of “God-wisdom”, was
not and did not pretend to be identical with the
Theosophia claimed by Porphyrius as his mystical
possession. Something divine had passed from the
meaning of the word and the conception of the
thing in the intervening time, and much that was
human had come into them.
Theosophy's Old Testament Rejected
Isis Unveiled was the sole Theosophical scripture
from 1877 until the Mahatma Letters appeared in
fragmentary and abstract form in The Occult
World and Esoteric Buddhism. It is therefore of in­
terest to learn for what reasons and in what par­
ticulars the older revelation was superseded by the
new. We shall avoid offering an opinion of our own
upon the doctrine of this colossal book of 1,200
pages; but since Mr. Sinnett makes a few explana­
tions of the genesis of Isis, and Madame Blavatsky
and others give more startling particulars as to its
composition, we may briefly indicate what these
are. The most significant fact with regard to the
work is the assertion on all hands, as well as in its
own pages, that it was composed by direction of
and with the assistance of the Masters—“The sages
of the Orient”. Much of it, according to Madame
Blavatsky, was passed before her eyes in manuscript
or written during her sleep. There is ground for
believing, in any case, that in producing the book
the author had professional editorial assistance
75
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
from a certain Dr. Wilder; while the Mahatmas
themselves say in the Letters that Colonel Olcott
lent a by no means improving hand.
The Mahatmas’ Criticisms
Of Isis as a literary compendium of religious and
scientific information, we will only say that it seems
to us an exceedingly ill-constructed work, which
for the most part makes dreary and unedifying
reading. No judgment that we could pass on it,
however, were we minded to make one, would equal
the disparagement meted out to it at almost every
mention by the Mahatmas, who, as just said, were
credited with having directed and supervised its
composition. “ ‘You will write so and so, give so
far, and no more’ . . . she was constantly told by
us when writing her book” (M.L., p. 289).
Here is a list of the Mahatmas’ criticisms:
“Isis,” emanating from a woman, “could never
hope for a serious hearing” (p. 50). “By the bye
you must not trust Isis literally,” says K.H. on
p. 45, where “a few real mistakes” and a bad
printer’s error are admitted. On p. 121 he says
“Isis was not unveiled.” The book was called “a
tentative effort” ; admitted to be in parts “much
jumbled, and confused by Olcott, who thought he
was improving it” ! (p. 75); said to be “very
clumsily expressed”, “hardly sketched—nothing
completed or fully revealed” (p. 131); “confused
and tortured” (p. 173); “contradictory” and “pur­
posely veiled” (pp. 289-90); and in need of being
76
The Philosophical Section
rewritten “for the sake of the family honour”
(p. 130). Lastly, it was called by the Mahatma
himself a “curry of quotations from various philo­
sophic and esoteric truths” (p. 121), and by Colonel
Olcott “a sort of literary rag-bag with contents all
higgledy-piggledy” (.B.L., p. 326).
It is not for us to say whether the criticisms here
collected are just to the first great work of Madame
Blavatsky. At least they seem to indicate that the
hour had struck for the close of the second and the
opening of a third dispensation in Theosophy.
Although Isis Unveiled, in accordance with the
second Theosophical “object”, as this was under­
stood at the time it was written, had made a review
of all the religions and sciences of the world, it
showed a definite bias away from Christianity, and
a movement by almost imperceptible stages towards
the faiths of India, China, Mongolia and Tibet, at
which last place its Eastward-going star rested.
Then, with a few dark hints and tantalizing per­
sonal touches, it closed on the scene the curtain of
mystery. It was from this trans-Himalayan taber­
nacle, if we are to believe the records, that The
Mahatma Letters in due time came forth.
77
S E C T I O N V I I I
PERSONALITY AND PHILOSOPHY
T h e Philosophy of the Mahatma Letters was not
presented to its first readers in a very formal
manner; perhaps for the reason that it was agreed
that the new revelation should first run an experi­
mental course in The Theosophist magazine, and then
be finally built into a system in the “new book”.
Hencethough the “finds” ofphilosophic ore aresome-
times very rich, they are presented in a crude and
casual manner, and left embedded in heaps of earthy
personalities, which, though sometimes intended
to be entertaining, hinder the intellectual march.
Madame Blavatsky is herself the subject of
frequent digressions of this personal character. Her
bodily ailments are diagnosed and her defects of
temperament come under strong but not too
damaging comment. “We have nothing against the
old woman with the exception that she is one”
(p. 428) is an affectionate touch, which neverthe­
less is typical of a strain of anti-feminism that runs
through the Letters.* Of the founder’s associates
in India—among them Colonel Olcott, Mr. Sin-
nett and Mr. Hume—not one altogether escapes
the lash, while the chiefs of Theosophy and
Spiritualism in England are unsparingly castigated
for any scepticism or independence of mind which
they show on the Mahatmic theme.
* See Section xv. The Mahatmas’ Anti-Feminism.
78
Personality and Philosophy
The Mahatma's Curiosity
Mr. Sinnett having gone to Europe to bring out
The Occult World, the correspondence rested for a
few months, except for a couple of gossipy pages
in Letter xxxi (properly No. ix)—sent “from the
abodes ofeternal snow and purity” to “the abodes of
vice” (p. 240). Herein the Mahatma K.H. admits
the lack of system in his writings, and almost
apologizes for it to his highly trained journalistic
friend. “Pardon me. I write but seldom letters;
and whenever compelled to do so follow rather my
own thoughts than strictly hold to the subject I
ought to have in view” (p. 241). This confession—
which confirms our observation just made—lies
between an outburst on the “universal Spiritual
Essense of Nature” and a rather curious personal
inquiry: “And now that you have met the
‘mystics’ of Paris and London, what do you think
of them?” (p. 242).
It is evident that Mr. Sinnett wrote back to
Tibet via Bombay as much in the personal as in the
philosophic vein, for the Mahatma’s Letter ix,
written at leisure in the Lamasery to await his
pupil’s return to India, fills fourteen pages, eight
of which are occupied with personal themes. These
swift summaries of the characters and conditions of
Mr. Sinnett’s Theosophical associates show their
writer to possess an extraordinary insight, a crowded
memory, and a command of Western vernacular
that many a practised penman would envy. They
help, moreover, to build up an historical background
79
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
to the otherwise dateless, abstract and oracular
Letters.
“Our old lady is weak and her nerves are worked
to a fiddle-string; so is her jaded brain,” writes the
Mahatma. H. S. Olcott, the other founder, is rusti­
cating, we think, in Ceylon, “fighting his way
back to salvation”, after some unnamed journalistic
“indiscretions”.
“Mr. Hume . . . now preserves a kind of armed
neutrality wondrous to behold. Having made the
mirific discovery that we are a body of antidiluvian
Jesuits of fossiles—self-crowned with oratorial
flourishes”. . . . “Verily has our very intellectual,
once mutual friend, a flood of words at his com­
mand which would suffice to float a troopship of
oratorious fallacies. Nevertheless—I respect him”
(P- 39)-
“But who next?” No; why should we plough
through these personalities from A to Z, and keep
Philosophy waiting? “You doubt? Listen.” No;
we are ready to believe, if it will spare us the
listening to more strictures—even though well-
deserved—on four famous Theosophists and Spiri­
tualists who have since passed on. We have often
enough heard ofpupils carrying tales and grievances
to their masters, but we do not know what to make
of this instance of the reverse process. The com­
pensating utility of these personalities is apparent,
however, when they serve as hooks for weightier
matters to hang on; when the Mahatma, instead
of hitching his wagon to a star, hitches his star to
a wagon—as, for instance, in his sudden incan-
80
Personality and Philosophy
descence upon the subject of “Planetary Spirits”
in the midst of a paragraph directed against Mr.
Stainton Moses. We condense the sentences a
little.
“Planetary Spirits appear on Earth only at the
beginning of every new human kind, at the junction
of, and close of the two ends of the great cycle.
They remain with man no longer than the time
required for the truths they have to teach to impress
themselves so forcibly upon the plastic mind of the
new races as to warrant them from being for­
gotten in ages hereafter”. . . . “The mission of
the Planetary Spirit is but to strike the k e y - n o t e
o f t r u t h ” . . . which having run its course
“along the catenation of that race”, the high
Spirit disappears “till the following ‘resurrection
of flesh’. The vibrations of the Primitive Truth
are what your philosophers name ‘innate ideas’ ”
(p. 41).
“But to your question—may a Planetary Spirit
have been humanly incarnated?” The answer is in
the affirmative; none of them can have been other
than human. “When Buddha”, while living on
earth, “first reached Nirvana, he became a Plane­
tary Spirit,” able to “rove the interstellar spaces in
full consciousness” in his own body. But this is a rare
gift, and is the highest that man can hope for on
our planet; “the last Khobilgan who reached it
being Sang-Ko-Pa of Kokonor (xiv century) the
reformer of esoteric as well as of vulgar Lamaism”
(P- 43)-
81 F
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Spirits of the Departed
A certain G.H.F. had speculated that “every
diamond, every crystal, every plant and star has
its own individual soul, besides man and animal”—
and that “there is a hierarchy of souls from the
lowest forms of matter up to the World Soul”. It
was a good shot. “You are right” (said K.H., as he
tells us), “but, you are mistaken when adding . . .
that ‘the spirits of the departed hold direct psychic
communication with Souls that are still connected
with a human body’—for, they do not.” This was
a bad shot on the part of G.H.F. “They cannot if
even they would span the abyss that separates their
worlds from ours.” They can be visited in Spirit,
they cannot visit us; they attract, but cannot be
attracted, “their Spiritual polarity being an in­
superable difficulty in the way” (p. 45). K.H. will
explain this more clearly in dealing with “The
Great Cycle”. We still condense his sentences a
little.
The Great Cycle
The cycle of intelligent existences commences on
the most spiritually perfect planet. Man evolves
from the primeval cosmic matter (akasa) at the
threshold of Eternity as an Etherial—not a Spiritual
entity. “He is but one remove from the universal
and Spiritual World Essence—the Anima Mundi of
the Greeks” (p. 45).
The congeries of star-worlds may be likened to
82
Personality and Philosophy
a chain of worlds inter-linked together. The pro­
gress of man throughout the whole is called the
“Great Cycle”, its “head is lost in a crown of
absolute Spirit, and its lowest point of circum­
ference in absolute matter” (p. 46).
In the Great Cycle there are smaller cycles, and
each star-world has its own cycle of evolution, from
a purer to a grosser nature; at the “antipodes” it
is absolute matter (p. 46).
Returning to the Planetary Spirit. Propelled by
cyclic impulse, he has to descend before he can
ascend. On his way he has to pass through the
whole ladder of evolution, missing no rung, to halt
at every star-world as he would at a station, and
perform in it his own “life cycle” (p. 46).
The Septenary System
The two Letters just noticed (xxxi and ix) do not
carry us very far into the Mahatmas’ system of
Philosophy. It is true there is a reference (p. 46)
to the doctrine of Reincarnation (which we shall
discuss in another Section), but it is in Letter xi,
from K.H. to Mr. Hume, that a more fundamental
matter is foreshadowed, when a hint is given as
to the evolution of “the Pythagorean monad”
upwards to “the sacred seven” (p. 63). Here, in
the words “monad” and “seven” we have the
twin keys to the Occult Philosophy, the disclosure
of which is begun in Letter xm, where Mahatma
Morya answers the cosmological queries of Mr.
Sinnett.
83
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Although we have said that the formulation of
the Philosophy may have little direct bearing on
the problem of the authorship of the Letters, we
propose, as a matter of interest, to add to this
Section an outline of it sufficiently definite for
comprehension, supported by a selection from those
passages in the text from which it is drawn.
/
The Numerical Structure of the Universe
The first principle of the Philosophy is the unity
and eternity of a primordial Essence, neither spirit
nor matter alone, nor both compounded, but “the
one element for which the English has no name”
(p. 60). “The one element not only fills space and
is space, but interpenetrates every atom of cosmic
matter” (p. 97). In the constitution of the Universe
this Essence has seven aspects, to which, in number
and nature, the constitution of man corresponds.
In its structure the Universe is subject to “the
septenary rule” ; worlds and chains of worlds
conforming to the disposition of this numerical
force, and the lives of races and of individual
men similarly coming under its sway. Esoteric
Science does not recognize the “four elements”
and “three kingdoms” of the Western schools,
but affirms the existence of seven elements and
seven kingdoms. Time itself bows down to the
“sacred seven”, and all the periods of all life—
whether of universes, globes, men, or the atoms of
men’s bodies—exhibit the same numerical re­
currence.
84
Personality and Philosophy
Cosmological Queries Answered
The following are a few of the passages, in
Letters xm to xvm, which support the proposi­
tions outlined above.
1. “Realize but once the process of the maha cycle,
of one sphere and you have realized them all.
One man is born like another man, one race
evolves, develops and declines like another and
all other races. Nature follows the same groove
from the ‘creation’of a universe down to that of
a mosquito” (p. 70).
2. Worlds have, “like men their seven principles
which develop and grow simultaneously with
the body” (p. 71).
3. “The evolution of the worlds cannot be con­
sidered apart from the evolution of everything
created” (p. 72). “Besides which, every king­
dom (and we have seven—while you have but
three) is subdivided into sevendegrees or classes”
(P- 73)-
4. “All is one law. Man has his seven principles,
the germs of which he brings with him at his
birth. So has a planet or a world” (p. 76).
5. “There are seven objective and seven subjective
globes (I have been just permitted for the first
time to give you the right figure), the worlds of
causes and of effects” (p. 78). “The ‘Septenary’
doctrine had not yet been divulged to the
world at the time when Isis was written”
(p. 183).
85
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
6. Even the monad passing from the mineral to
the vegetable state has to keep to the septenary-
rule. “Having passed through its seven great
classes of inmetalliation (a good word this)
with their septenary ramifications—the monad
gives birth to the vegetable kingdom and moves
on to the next planet B” (p. 79).
7. “He has to perform seven rings through seven
races (one in each) and seven multiplied by
seven offshoots. . . . To set you right so far I
will say—one life in each of the seven root-
races ; seven lives in each of the 49 sub-races—
or 7 X 7 X 7 = 343 and add 7 more. And then
a series of lives in offshoot and branchlet races;
making the total incarnations of man in each
station or planet 777” (p. 83).
8. “As man is a seven-fold being so is the universe
—the septenary microcosm being to the sep­
tenary macrocosm but as the drop of rain
water is to the cloud from whence it dropped
and whither in the course of time it will
return” (p. 91).
9. “The degrees of an Adept’s initiation mark the
seven stages at which he discovers the secret of
the sevenfold principles in nature and man and
awakens his dormant powers” (p. 99).
10. “Every Spiritual Individuality has a gigantic
evolutionary journey to perform. . . . First—
at the beginning of the great Mahamanvan-
taric rotation, from first to last of the man­
bearing planets, as on each of them, the monad
has to pass through seven successive races of
86
Personality and Philosophy
man. . . . Each of the seven races send seven
ramifying branchlets from the Parent Branch;
and through each of these in turn man has to
evolute before he passes on to the next higher
race; and that—seven times” (p. 119).
The Denial of God
Having given above the affirmative principles of
the Mahatmas’ Philosophy, we must include in
this Section the statement of their fundamental
negation, that is, the denial of the existence of a
divine creator and sustainer of the Universe. In
this respect, of course, they are not peculiar among
philosophers, but at least it may be said that they
are unique in having been at the same time the
trusted guides of a Society of “Theosophists”.
Pronouncements contrary to the theistic idea
are of frequent occurrence in the Letters, and when
directed against particular persons or religions they
are as often expressed in abusive as in argumenta­
tive terms. Of the receivers of the Letters, Mr. A. O.
Hume (who has already been mentioned in this
Section as the subject of caustic personal comment)
seems to have been the more disputatious of the
two, and sceptical of his Master’s knowledge and
authority. Proposing to publish in his own name
an exposition of the Occult Philosophy, he wrote
and sent for his Master’s approval a preliminary
chapter headed “God”, to which essay K.H.
replied in notes now constituting Letter x. Here
follow a few of its more salient passages:
87
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“Neither our philosophy nor ourselves believe in
a God, least of all in one whose pronoun necessitates
a capital H. . . . Our doctrine knows no com­
promises. It neither affirms or denies, for it never
teaches but that which it knows to be the truth.
Therefore we deny God both as philosophers and
as Buddhists. . . . We know there are planetary
and other spiritual lives, and we know there is in
our system no such thing as God, either personal or
impersonal” (p. 52).
“We refuse to admit a being or an existence of
which we know absolutely nothing, because there
is no room for him in the presence of that matter
whose undeniable properties and qualities we know
thoroughly well” (p. 55).
“The existence of matter, then, is a fact; the
existence of motion is another fact, their self­
existence and eternity or indestructibility is a third
fact. And the idea of pure spirit as a Being or an
Existence—give it whatever name you will—is a
chimera, a gigantic absurdity” (p. 56).
Universal Monarchy or Democracy
So as not to take leave of the Mahatmas’philosophy
in its purely negative mode, let us conclude this
Section with a brief summary of the teaching as it
finds expression in more positive terms.
The Mahatmas argue that in rejecting the con­
cept of a divine creator, ruler and judge of the
Universe, they are not making void the essential
seat of government in the cosmos, but are affirming
88
Personality and Philosophy
the existence of a real cosmic “Democracy” instead
of an illusory “Monarchy”. For since the macro­
cosm is known to be represented in the microcosm,
the necessary functions usually vested in a God are
actually distributed through all orders of being,
from the highest to the lowest. Therefore every
being that knows this is his own God.
There is no need for a creator or sustainer of
the material universe, for matter exists from
eternity in perfect equilibrium, and its origination
and annihilation are alike impossible. Also, for
all the stages ofthe modification ofmatter, adequate
powers are inherent in the highest orders of beings
—the Dhyan Chohans and Planetary Spirits—and
their aggregate, the Universal Mind. Lastly, Karma
as the law of Nature is a sufficient surety for justice.
Perpetual Motion
“Then what do we believe in? . . . we believe in
matter alone, in matter as visible nature and matter
in its invisibility as the invisible omnipresent omni­
potent Proteus with its unceasing motion which is
its life, and which nature draws from herself since
she is the great whole outside of which nothing can
exist” (p. 56).
“We say and affirm that motion—the universal
perpetual motion which never ceases, never slackens
nor increases its speed but goes on like a mill set in
motion, whether it has anything to grind or not—
we say this perpetual motion is the only eternal and
uncreated Deity we are able to recognize” (p. 138).
89
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“And we maintain that wherever there is life and
being, and in however much spiritualized a form,
there is no room for moral government, much less
for a moral Governor” (p. 139).
Since it is held that there is in the Universe no
spirit entitled to the name of “God” and deserving
of the trust and service of men, there cannot in
reason be any true religion, as religions are com­
monly understood. Hence it is no wonder that the
Mahatma dismisses, as illusions and curses, “religion
under whatever form and in whatever nation, the
sacerdotal caste, the priesthood and the churches”
(P- 57)-
90
S E C T I O N I X
REINCARNATION MISUNDERSTOOD
T he course of life outlined in the previous Section
has been shown to be beset with many changes, not
only of place and time, but in the very nature of
the pilgrim monad itself. The disclosure of its
periods of encasement in mineral, vegetable and
animal forms involved the invention of the words
“inmetalliation”, “inherbation” and “zooniza-
tion” ; the first of which was evidently the coinage
of Mr. Sinnett’s brain, and the last of the
Mahatma’s. The word denoting the encasement
of a spirit in human flesh—“incarnation”—was,
however, of more ancient lineage, and was ready
to the hand of the Mahatma when the cosmic
system was being unfolded. True, it had been
formerly employed in a theological connection, but
as this was not its only possible meaning, it had
been adopted and modified by the prefix “re” to
denote a series of encasements in flesh, or rebirths
in human form. As such it was certainly in use
prior to the issue of Isis Unveiled, and doubtless the
adherents of that doctrine in Europe and America
were the people therein alluded to and opposed by
Madame Blavatsky as “the Reincarnationists”. We
have now to examine the references to the doctrine
of Reincarnation in the Letters: needless to say
not with a view to the discussion of its truth, but
rather as an inquiry into the history of the disclosure
of the idea.
9i
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
The Doctrine First Mentioned
Following the reference made in Letter ix (p. 46)
to “life cycles”, the Mahatma mentions for the
first time the subject of Reincarnation, but this he
does in such a casual manner that it is hard to
believe he is propounding the doctrine that in later
years became so vital to his scheme. Reincarnation
is not here stated to be a normal fact in the life
of every spirit; it is only a compensating oppor­
tunity offered in cases where the spirit “fails to
complete his round of life in it”, or “as he dies on it
before reaching the age of reason, as correctly stated
in Isis”. Up to this point in the correspondence the
Mahatma has been silent on any other or larger
understanding of the term, but he immediately
adds: “Thus far Mrs. Kingsford’s idea that the
human Ego is being reincarnated in several suc­
cessive human bodies is the true one”—though this
lady is said to be wrong about its rebirth in animal
forms. Since Mrs. Kingsford’s idea is said to be
“thus far the true one”, we take it the Mahatma is
in agreement with her; let us hear what he has to
say as to her partial error.
“This is what happens.” When the Spirit-man,
after circling along the arc of the cycle, reaches our
planet, he has lost some of his ethereal, and acquired
an increase of material nature. Indeed, the two
natures will be “pretty much equilibrized in him” .
But matter will in time so stifle spirit that the once
pure Planetary Spirit will dwindle to a primordial
man in primordial conditions. Thenceforward his
92
Reincarnation Misunderstood
redundant matter will be divorced from spirit, and
pass into mineral, vegetable and primitive animal
forms. In these natural mills it is ground to powder
and proceeds usoulless back to its Mother Fount;
while the Egos purified of their dross are enabled to
resume their progress once more onward”. Hence
it is matter, not spirit, which descends as dross into
mineral, vegetable and primitive animal forms; as
to “the Spiritual Ego, he will ascend from star to
star, from one world to another, circling onward
to re-become the once pure planetary Spirit, then
higher still, to finally reach its first starting
point, and from thence—to merge into mystery1
’
(p. 47).
The Mahatmas Forestalled
Presuming the truth of the correction just made,
we must return to the consideration of “Mrs.
Kingsford’s idea”. Who, we may be asked, is this
lady, and whence has she the apparent priority in
the utterance of this idea, and liberty to offer an
interpretation of it different from the Mahatma’s?
She is the gifted visionary of the “Hermetic”
school, who not only taught the doctrine of rebirth,
but claimed ability to recover the knowledge of
her own past lives. In conjunction with Mr. Edward
Maitland she delivered in London a series ofprivate
lectures in the summer of 1881, which were pub­
lished early in 1882, under the title of The Perfect
Way. It is clear, therefore, that at the time the
Letter we are now considering was written, “Mrs.
93
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Kingsford’s idea” had not long come to the
Mahatma’s knowledge.
Mrs. Kingsford became President of the London
Lodge of the Theosophical Society in the year
1883, and was by the Mahatma’s telegraphic
command (received on December 9, 1883) re­
elected to the office in 1884. “In a letter . . .
conditionally accepting the presidentship,” writes
K.H. in January, 1883, “she expresses her belief
—nay, points it out as an undeniable fact—
that before the appearance of ‘The Perfect Way’
no one ‘knew what the Oriental school really held
about Reincarnation’; and adds that ‘seeing how
much has been told in that book, the adepts (our
Mahatmas) are hastening to unlock their own
treasures, so ‘grudgingly doled out hitherto’ ”
(p. 328). This rather unkind suggestion of Mrs.
Kingsford may have had some basis in fact, but its
frank utterance must have hurt the pride—if he
had any—of the Mahatma, and it would explain
his never afterwards losing an opportunity of
making unmasculine comments on the “feminine
vanity”, the “golden hair” or the “fascination”
of the Hermetic Doctor.
Mrs. Kingsford’s Claims to Priority
Mr. Sinnett’s Master was very anxious that Mrs.
Kingsford’s claim to the prior publication of the
doctrine of Reincarnation should not gain cur­
rency in the Theosophical Society. Hence he gave
the following instruction: “Write then, good friend,
94
Reincarnation Misunderstood
to Mr. Massey the truth. Tell him that you were
possessed of the Oriental views of reincarnation
several months before the work in question had
appeared—since it is in July (18 months ago)
that you began being taught the difference between
Reincarnation a la Allan Kardec,* or personal
rebirth—and that of the Spiritual Monad; a
difference first pointed out to you on July 5th at
Bombay” (p. 329).
Although the point of priority is a trivial one for
us at this date, we must at least see justice done to
the seraphic Doctor, and state the facts as we read
them. First, let us interpose from The Life of Anna
Kingsford, by Mr. Maitland, an account of Mr.
Sinnett’s conversation with the Hermetic collabora­
tors on the occasion of his visit to London to bring
out The Occult World. After admitting the natural
curiosity of Mrs. Kingsford and himself as to the
existence of the Mahatmas, Mr. Maitland goes on
to recount what passed on the subject of the Eastern
doctrines. He says: “We knew, too, that Reincar­
nation, under the name of Transmigration, was an
Eastern tenet, and consequently the doctrine of
Karma. . . . We were therefore greatly surprised
to learn from Mr. Sinnett that these tenets formed
no part of the doctrine of the Theosophical Society,
being neither contained in their chief text-book,
the Tsis Unveiled’ of its foundress, nor communi­
cated to it by its Masters, and on these grounds Mr.
Sinnett rejected them, sitting up with us till long
* “Alan Kardec”, the pseudonym of L. H. D. Rivail, the French
spiritist, author ofLe Lime desEsprits.
95
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
after midnight arguing against them” (Vol. n,
P- i9)-
If the foregoing is a veracious account of the
Theosophico-Hermetic debate, we may suppose
that Mr. Sinnett returned to India holding the
same views as he had therein maintained. As a
matter of history, therefore, we have established
the fact that in the early summer of 1881 Mrs.
Kingsford was arguing for her “idea” and Mr.
Sinnett (as instructed by his Master) was arguing
against it. This settles the point of “priority”, for
what it is worth, in favour of the lady. It is obvious
that her claim cannot be invalidated by the fact
that “the work in question”—The Perfect Way—
appeared in print six months later than these
events. Indeed, it is further supported by a sequel
to Mr. Maitland’s story, contained in a letter of
Mrs. Kingsford’s, dated July 3, 1882, in which she
writes: “Mr. Sinnett has completely altered his
views on Reincarnation. When he came to see us a
year ago in London, he vehemently denied the
doctrine. He had not then received any instruction
from his Guru about it. Now, he has been so instructed,
and wrote to Mr. Maitland a long letter acknow­
ledging the truth of the doctrine, which, since
seeing us, he has been taught” [Life ofA.K., Vol. 11,
P- 75)-
As to the Mahatma’s appeal above made to the
date and contents of his Letter of July 5, 1881,
here, unfortunately, his memory betrays him, for
not only does it not mention Kardec’s “personal”
theory of Reincarnation, or formulate the theory
96
Reincarnation Misunderstood
of “the spiritual monad”, but, as already shown, it
allows that “Mrs. Kingsford’s idea—is the true one”.
We trust that Mr. Sinnett remembered the date
and character of the London conversations, com­
pared them with his Master’s Letter, and did not
write “the truth” as advised to Mr. Massey; that is,
unless the teaching had been given to him through
a channel other than these Letters. Of this we cannot
see the faintest possibility, for Mr. Sinnett himself
tells us that he was on the sea till July 7th, and
received the Letter in question (dated the 5th)
after landing at Bombay on the 8th.
Eleven months later—
June, 1882—the Mahatma
summarizes in Letter xvm the “gigantic evolu­
tionary journey” that “every Spiritual Individuality
has to perform” ; adding this parenthesis on the
Kingsford issue: “With all that there is noreincarna­
tion as taught by the London Seeress—Mrs. A. K.,
as the intervals between the re-births are too im­
measurably long to permit of any such fantastic
ideas”* (p. 119).
Although the sentence just quoted rightly makes
the truth about Reincarnation the only point of
importance, we must add here an expression of sur­
prise that the conflict as to priority in the publica­
tion of the doctrine should ever have arisen, seeing
that for ages India had based its various philoso­
phies on the double doctrine of Karma-Samsara, or
deeds and their consequences in successive terres­
trial rebirths. The very earliest Upanishad, the
* We should like to know why this sentence is cut out of The Early
Teachings.
97 G
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Brihadaranyaka, contains, for the first time in
Indian literature, an explicit if primitive teaching
of Reincarnation. We claim for Yagnavalkya a
“priority” of three thousand years over the dis­
puting worthies of the ’eighties. It is inexplicable
to us how either of them could have been ignorant
of the nature and antiquity of this fundamental
doctrine, and especially so in the case of a Hindu
Mahatma with access to “the largest library in the
world”, on whose shelves must have been lying the
Bhagavad Gita, if no other Indian book.
“Isis” on theDoctrine
Before closing this Section, it will be useful to quote
those passages on Reincarnation said to be “cor­
rectly stated in Isis”. They go to prove that Madame
Blavatsky in 1877 and the Mahatma in 1881 held
similar views on the doctrine, the truth of which,
be it noted, they both denied.
In the Index to Isis there is the following entry:
“Reincarnation, its cause, I, 346; its possibility and im­
possibility, I, 351.”
After quoting from Porphyry, Iamblichus and
Apuleius, Madame Blavatsky has the following
paragraph: “The language can hardly be called
ambiguous, and yet, the Reincarnationists quote
Apuleius in corroboration of their theory that man
passes through a succession of physical human
births upon this planet until he is finally purged
from the dross of his nature. But Apuleius dis­
tinctly says that we come upon earth from another
98
Reincarnation Misunderstood
one” (p. 345). Farther on we read: “Some unfor­
tunates fall out entirely, and lose all chance of the
prize; some retrace their steps and begin again.
This is what the Hindu dreads above all things—
transmigration and reincarnation; only on other planet,
never on this one. . . . At his death the Arhat is
never reincarnated” (p. 346), “this former life be­
lieved in by the Buddhists, is not a life on this
planet” (p. 347).
Not a life on this planet! We wonder what the
Buddhist readers of Isis must have thought of this
statement, seeing that the Birth stories ofthe Buddha,
to mention no others, tell of his five hundredprevious
lives “on this planet”.
“Hot a Rule in Nature”
A further passage from Isis will enable the reader
to award the prize for “priority” in the announce­
ment of Reincarnation to him or her who seems
to deserve it. Here Madame Blavatsky writes:
“Re-incarnation, i.e. the appearance of the same
individual, or rather his astral monad, twice on
the same planet, is not a rule in nature. It is an
exception, like . . . a two-headed infant. Thus,
in cases of abortion, of infants dying before a
certain age, and of congenital and incurable idiocy,
nature’s original design to produce a perfect
human being, has been interrupted. Therefore . . .
the immortal spirit . . . must try a second time to
carry out the purpose of the creative intelligence.
If reason has been so far developed as to become
99
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
active and discriminative, there is no reincarnation
on this earth” (p. 351). “When, through vice,
fearful crimes and animal passions, a disembodied
spirit has fallen to the eighth sphere . . . he can
struggle once more to the surface” (p. 352).
A Disturbing Reflection
If the passage just quoted were held to be the
whole truth on the doctrine of Reincarnation, it
would raise disturbing reflections in the minds
of those Theosophical worthies whose past earth-
lives have in recent years been clairvoyantly and
vividly recovered for them. For it would show that
they owe their present lives to one or other of a list
of causes which self-regard would induce them to
hide. But since the particular life-stories as re­
covered are on the whole not discreditable to the
reincarnated persons concerned, it is clear that the
general causes of rebirth are not now limited to
the catalogue of misfortunes, crimes and sins given
long ago in the pages of Isis. This is no more than
we should have inferred from the well-known fact
that the teaching of the Theosophical Society on
this subject now approximates to the belief, common
to nearly all Eastern religions and philosophies, that
Reincarnation is an experience universal and normal
to the human race. Why it was that the doctrine, if
true, was at any time denied, withheld, or only
“grudgingly doled out” by the writers of The
Mahatma Letters is a matter we need not further
discuss.
100
S E C T I O N X
INDIAN PHILOSOPHY
T he Mahatma Letters were written during the early
’eighties, by which time a good deal was known in
Europe about Indian philosophies and the works
in which they had been recorded. The translations
of the Sacred Books of the East had begun to appear,
and the earlier collections by Hodgson, Monier-
Williams, Spence Hardy, Muir and others were
well known to the scholarly world. There was no
mystery about the contents of the Indian wisdom,
nor miracle about the manner of its being made
known.
The initial impression given by the writers of
the Mahatma Letters is that they are fully informed
on all these matters. Numerous references to the
works, words and doctrines of the Hindu and
Buddhist writings are scattered throughout their
pages; but a close examination of them fails to
elicit any clear information. Even where the refer­
ences are not merely passing observations, they
convey the uneasy feeling that the writers are
rather airing their knowledge than communicating
it. Not without weighing our words we say that on
hardly a subject that can be verified are they
ordinarily correct; while, as for lucidity of expres­
sion, it does not exist. Many passages are quite
incomprehensible. From these poor and superficial
possessions, then, it seems the Mahatmas proposed
IOI
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
to furnish the world with an “eclectic system”
made up of the various elements of Eastern and
Western philosophies (with some new ideas of their
own) and to entitle it “Occult Science” or “Our
Philosophy”. So far as we are able to find Indian
thought present in the Letters, this eclectic system
is woefully confusing. We are bound to add that
some of its elements are wrongly attributed to
authoritative documents with a daring so startling as
to suggest a deliberate endeavour to deceive.
(a) The Vedanta Misrepresented
In the course of thousands of years, India had pro­
duced a long chain of religious and philosophical
writings, from the Rig-Veda to the Puranas. Their
chronology is now fairly well known; better,
however, than it was fifty years ago. Ofa knowledge
of this chronology the Mahatmas show no sign.
Moreover, Buddhism is mixed with Brahmanism
in a most unaccountable manner, and all the
endeavours of European scholars to produce a
literary cosmos for India are laughed to scorn.
The literary studies of Max Muller, Monier-
Williams and Rhys Davids receive the Mahatmic
contempt in measure quite as large as that poured
on the science of Tyndall and Huxley.
All Indian philosophy is either founded on the
Upanishads or is a declension from them. It is re­
markable, therefore, that only one insignificant
reference to these works (in a passing quotation
from “Upanishad”) is found in the Letters (p. 280).
102
Indian Philosophy
Similarly, the Vedanta, the first and last fruit of
the Upanishads, receives scant attention.
“Our doctrines show”, writes K.H. (p. 141), “but
one principle in nature—spirit-matter or matter-
spirit, the third the ultimate Absolute. . . . This
third principle, say the Vedantic Philosophers—is
the only reality, everything else being Maya.”
The Vedantists do not express themselves in these
terms; Brahman is the sole reality, not a “third
principle”.
Are the Mahatmas, then, Vedantists? Whatever
other meaning these words may convey, it would
seem that they are. Two more casual references to
Vedantism do not further enlighten us, but the
system under its technical name Advaitism is alluded
to several times. “We are not Adwaitees” (p. 53);
“We never were Adwaitees” (p. 288). Our question
above is answered; the Mahatmas are not
Vedantists.
Though the writers are certainly not Vedantists
—as almost every page of the Letters shows—yet
the technical terms of the Vedantist philosophy are
used by them in profusion: Avidya (nescience),
Maya (illusion), Gunas (qualities), Buddhi (wis­
dom), Prakriti (nature), Akasa (ether, space), Jiva
(soul), Atman (self), Isvara (God of the lower
knowledge), Parabrahm (the ultimate Power), etc.
We must add that hardly one of these terms is used
intelligibly, accurately and consistently, of which
p. 90 gives proof to any well-informed reader.
103
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
The Meaning of Maya—Illusion
In Letter x, addressed to Mr. Hume, the Mahatma
says boldly: “Neither our philosophy nor ourselves
believe in a God. . . . Therefore, we deny God
both as philosophers and as Buddhists . . . there
is in our system no such thing as God, either per­
sonal or impersonal. Parabrahm is not a God, but
absolute immutable law, and Iswar is the effect of
Avidya and Maya, ignorance based on the great
delusion” (p. 52).
As students of the Vedanta know, the sole reality
of that system is called Brahman or the Atman
(Kernel of the Universe). In virtue of man’s
limited sensibility, he is unable to know the sole
reality as it is. This limitation is subjective, and is
called avidya—nescience. The objective effect of
avidya is maya—illusion. That is to say, since our
vision is limited, what we see with it cannot be
real. Therefore when avidya passes away (if ever it
does) maya passes with it, and we then see the
reality. But what is that reality? It is our identity
with Brahman; we become advayatva—“non-dual”.
During the state of avidya we are encouraged to
worship Isvara, that is to say, Parabrahmn, the
sole reality, conceived of as God; but when avidya
and maya together pass away, we cease to worship,
because we have become identified with that which,
through faith, we formerly worshipped.
It is surely idle to say that this, the Vedanta
system, does not teach belief in God, as this Letter
suggests.
104
Indian Philosophy
(b) Buddhism Corrupted
If the Mahatmas are Buddhists—as they have just
said—why do they set themselves the impossible
task of teaching Buddhism in Vedantist terms?
Are not the Buddhist scriptures open to them?
Yes; but they do not invoke them; for they were
“written for the superstitious masses” (p. 54). In
spite of this disparagement of these scriptures,
however, the Mahatmas, in their excursions into
Buddhism, condescend now and again to quote
from them, sometimes with remarkable results. Let
us turn to p. 58 and attend to the Mahatma’s
words beginning “Read the Mahavagga”, etc.
The point of interest here is not the truth of the
doctrine, but the truth of the citation to its original
text. “Read the Mahavagga”, says the Mahatma,
“and try to understand not with the prejudiced
Western mind but the spirit of intuition and truth
what the Fully Enlightened one says in the 1st
Khandhaka. Allow me to translate it for you.”
Then follows a passage of nineteen lines, corre­
sponding roughly to the English of the despised
Rhys Davids, whose version of the Mahavagga had
appeared, and was actually available in the year
1881, when this letter was written.
Was it necessary for the Mahatma to ask to be
allowed to “translate” this passage? The result, in
any case, is unfortunate, for three place-names are
miss-spelt (Uruvella, Nerovigara, Boddhi tree), a
score of words are obviously wrongly rendered,
and as many more are omitted or misplaced; there
105
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
are also four interpolations. Yet withal one would
say the version is copied, including his explanatory
parentheses, from Rhys Davids.
In proof of the statements above made, we give
the two versions of the “ ist Khandhaka”—Rhys
Davids’ and the Mahatma’s—for comparison.
i. Rhys Davids’ Version (S.B.E., Vol. xiii, pp. 73-8)
“ 1. At that time the blessed Buddha dwelt at
Uruvela, on the bank of the river Nerangara, at
the foot of the Bodhi tree (tree of wisdom), just
after he had become Sambuddha. . . .
“2. Then the Blessed One [at the end of these seven
days] during the first watch of the night fixed
his mind upon the Chain of Causation, in
direct and reverse order: ‘From Ignorance
spring the samkharas, from the samkharas
springs Consciousness, from Consciousness
spring Name-and-Form, from Name-and-Form
spring the six Provinces (of the six senses) from
the six Provinces springs Contact, from Con­
tact springs Sensation, from Sensation springs
Thirst (or Desire) from Thirst springs Attach­
ment, from Attachment springs Existence,
from Existence springs Birth, from Birth springs
Old Age and Death, grief, lamentation, suffer­
ing, dejection and despair. Again, by the de­
struction of Ignorance, which consists in the
complete absence of lust, the samkharas are
destroyed. . . . Such is the cessation of this
whole mass of suffering.’
106
Indian Philosophy
“3. Knowing this the Blessed One then on that
occasion pronounced this solemn utterance:
‘When the real nature of things becomes clear
to the ardent, meditating Brahmana, then all
his doubts fade away, since he realizes what is
that nature and what its cause. . . .
“7. . . . he stands, dispelling the hosts of Mara,
like the sun that illuminates the sky.’ ”
11. The Mahatma's Version (pp. 58-9)
“At the time the blessed Buddha was at Uruvella
on the shores of the river Nerovigara as he rested
under the Boddhi tree of wisdom* after he had
become Sambuddha, at the end of the seventh day*
having his mind fixed on the chain of causation
he spake thus: ‘from Ignorance spring the sam-
kharas of threefold nature—productions of body,
of speech, of thoughts. From the samkharas springs
consciousness, from consciousness springs name and
form, from this spring the six regions (of the six
senses* the seventh being the property of but the
enlightened); from these springs contact from this
sensation; from this springs thirst (or desire,* Kama,
tanha) from thirst attachment, existence, birth, old
age and death, grief, lamentation, suffering, dejec­
tion and despair. Again by the destruction of
ignorance, the Samkharas are destroyed, and their
consciousness name and form, the six regions
contact, sensation, thirst, attachment (selfishness),
* The phrases set by us in italics are Rhys Davids’own parentheses
taken over into the Mahatma’s “translation”.
107
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
existence, birth, old age, death, grief, lamentation,
suffering, dejection, and despair are destroyed.
Such is the cessation of this whole mass of suffering.’
“Knowing this the blessed one uttered this
solemn utterance. ‘When the real nature of things
becomes clear to the meditating Bikshu, then all
his doubts fade away since he has learned what is
that nature and what it’s cause. From ignorance
spring all the evils. From knowledge comes the
cessation of this mass of misery, and then the medi­
tating Brahmana stands dispelling the hosts of
Mara like the sun that illuminates the sky’.”
«
(c) “ The Devachan” and “Sukhavati”
Passing on to Letter xvi, known as The Devachan
Letter, we meet with another quotation from the
Buddhist scriptures (p. ioo), and recognise in it a
description of Sukhavati, the “Land of Bliss” of
the Mahayana school. “The Devachan”—the new
Theosophical heaven—had been mentioned for
the first time, but not explained, in Letter xm
(p. 72). Mr. Sinnett reverts to it in a query on
p. 99, saying—if he remembers rightly—that that
was the name given “in the last Theosophist” to the
state of beatitude there described. He was right,
and K.H. at once answers the query. “The Deva-
Chan, or land of ‘Sukhavati’, is allegorically de­
scribed by our Lord Buddha himself. What he
said may be found in the Shan-Mun-yi-Tung.”
In this case the Mahatma does not ask to be
“allowed to translate” the passage; the work that
108
Indian Philosophy
he quotes—the Shan-mun-yih-tung, to be correct—
is a Chinese version of Kurmarajiva’s translation
(about a .d . 400) of the Amit&yah Sutra, a Sanskrit
work of the Mahayana school. It appears in
English in Beal’s A Catena of Buddhist Scripturesfrom
the Chinese (1871) and it looks as if Beal had saved
K.H. not a little labour by translating it. Still, it
puzzles us that the Mahatma, if he used Beal’s
version, should have read into it a list of Arhats,
Dhyan Chohans, Bodhisatwas, and finally the
Deva-Chan itself, none of which it mentions. Here
follow the two passages for comparison.
1. Beads Version (Catena, pp. 378-83)
“At this time Buddha addressed the venerable
Sariputra as follows: ‘In the western regions more
than one hundred thousand myriads of systems of
worlds beyond this, there is a Sakwala named
Sukhavati. Why is this region so named? Because
all those born in it have no griefs or sorrows: they
experience only unmixed joys; therefore it is named
the infinitely happy land. Again, Sariputra, this
happy region is surrounded by seven rows of orna­
mental railings, seven rows of exquisite curtains,
seven rows of waving trees—hence, again, it is
called the infinitely happy region. Again, Sariputra,
this happy land possesses seven gemmous lakes, in
the midst of which flow waters possessed of the
eight distinctive qualities (viz. limpidity and purity,
refreshing coolness, sweetness, softness, fertilizing
qualities, calmness, power of preventing famine,
109
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
productiveness). Again, Sariputra, the land of that
Buddha ever shares in heavenly delights (or music)
the ground is resplendent gold; at morning and
evening showers of the Divine Udambara flower
descend upon all those born there, at early dawn
the most exquisite blossoms burst out at their side;
thousand myriads of Buddhas instantly resort here
for refreshment, and then return to their own
regions, and for this reason, Sariputra, that land
is called most happy. . . .
“ ‘So it is, Sariputra, that land of Buddha is
perfected. Again, Sariputra, in that land of perfect
joy all who are born are born as Avaivartyas (never
to return) whilst among these there are numbers
who make this their resting place before that one
birth more (which shall end in their arrival at
Buddhaship); infinite are these in number, not to
be expressed for multitude, simply innumerable.’”
n. The Mahatma?s Version (p. ioo)
SaysTathagata: “Many thousand myriads ofsystems
ofworlds beyond this (ours) there is a region of Bliss
called Sukhavati. . . . This region is encircled with
sevenrows of railings, sevenrows ofvast curtains, seven
rows of waving trees; this holy abode of Arahats is
governed by the Tathagatas (Dyan Chohans) and
is possessed by the Bodhisatwas. It hath seven
precious lakes, in the midst of which flow crystalline
waters having ‘seven and one’ properties, or dis­
tinctive qualities (the 7 principles emanating from
the One). This, O, Sariputra is the ‘Deva Chan’.
IIO
Indian Philosophy
Its divine Udambara flower casts a root in the
shadow of every earth, and blossoms for all those who
reach it. Those born in the blessed region are truly
felicitous, there are no more griefs or sorrows in
that cycle for them. Myriads of Spirits (Lha) resort
there for rest and then return to their own regionsA
Again, O, Sariputra, in that land of joy many
who are born in it are Avaivartyas. . . .” 2
The words Tathagata and Sukavali above should
read Tathagata and Sukhavati.
Max Muller’s Older Sanskrit Text
We have said the Sutra existed in Sanskrit earlier
than in Chinese, and we are fortunate in having
it translated by Max Muller directly from a manu­
script which he discovered in Japan. This is the
true document, and though it does not seriously
differ from Beal’s Shan, it agrees with it exactly in
omitting the Mahatma’s added matter.
We gather from a reference in Letter l x i to
Beal’s Catena (p. 344) that that work was at
the Mahatma’s elbow when he was writing about
July, 1883, but we cannot be sure that Max
Muller’s S.B.E. volume was out in 1882, when
Letter xvi was penned. At any rate, we prefer
not to urge his high authority against the Mahatma,
for in Letter xxxi (p. 241) the great translator is
disparaged in advance by the exclamation: “Oh,
K .H .’s footnotes:
1 Those who have not ended their earth rings.
2 Literally—“those who will never return” , the seventh round
men.
I l l
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
ye Max Mullers . . . what have ye done with our
philosophy!” They have carelessly omitted or pur­
posely cut out the “Dhyan Chohans” and the
“Deva-Chan” from the Esoteric text!
(d) Buddha versus Buddha
Most surprising of all the appeals to the Buddhist
scriptures is the saying attributed to Buddha on
p. 455, contradicting his well-known teaching of
Anatta, or “non-soul”. The sceptical Mr. Hume
had noticed the obvious contradiction between
the accepted doctrine of Anatta (acknowledged by
K.H. in a remark: “Remember that there is within
man no abiding principle”) and the newly revealed
“sixth and seventh principles, Buddhi-Atma.” The
Mahatma replies: “Neither Atma nor Buddhi ever
were within man”—they float over “the extreme
part of the man’s head”, as Plutarch taught on the
authority of Plato and Pythagoras. Thus the long
controversy between Vedanta and Buddhism is
closed by research among the Greek folios in a
Tibetan Library.
The passage from some mysterious document
reads as follows: Says Buddha: “You have to get
rid entirely of all the subjects of impermanence
composing the body that your body should become
permanent. The permanent never merges with the
impermanent although the two are one. But it is
only when all outward appearances are gone that
there is left that one principle of life which exists
independently of all external phenomena. It is
112
Indian Philosophy
the fire that burns in the eternal light, when the
fuel is expended and the flame is extinguished; for
that fire is neither in the flame nor in the fuel, nor
yet inside either of the two but above beneath and
everywhere” (p. 455).
Anything less like the Buddha’s style of speech
and teaching than this passage it would be hard to
conceive. Where it is clear it makes Buddha recant
his lifelong-taught doctrine of Anatta\ where it is
not clear it is impossible to find any meaning in it.
K.H. first writes (p. 455): “There is within man
no abiding principle” ; when Mr. Hume asks:
“How about the sixth and seventh principles?”
K.H. replies with the quibble (“a little meta­
physical axiom”) that these principles are not
within man, but over “the extreme part of the man’s
head”. “If you don’t believe me” (he seems to say),
“take the fact from Pythagoras, through Plato and
Plutarch. But, if you hear not the Greeks, read
what the Lord Buddha himself says in the Parinirvana
Sutra.” We may say that, in obedience to this in­
junction, we have made a careful search in the
Mahaparinibbana Sutta, but have been unable to
discover in it any passage corresponding to the
Mahatma’s curious citation.
Having deprived the Vedanta system of its
characteristic deity, the Mahatmas feel equal to
providing the Buddha’s soul-less system with a soul
floating above our heads. His technical terms are
abundantly employed in the Letters, and often
incorrectly. Nirvana, in twenty cases, is rightly
used only in one, being casual or wrong in the rest.
” 3 H
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Bhikkhus, Arhats and Bodhisattvas are not accu­
rately differentiated. The first is a wandering men­
dicant, the second is one who has reached the
nirvanic state here on earth, and the third is an
Arhat who has left the earth and is on the way to
become a Buddha. Dharmakaya (Truth body) is
called “the universally diffused essence” (p. 90),
an unhappy definition of the central idea of the
Mahayana system. Karma, common to Hindu and
Buddhist teachings, ambles through the book
without lucid exposition, but receives in many
passages “trans-Himalayan” touches. The general
plan of commentary seems to be that those
Mahatmic innovations which find no confirmation
in the known scriptures of Hindu or Buddhist
faith, are introduced either as corrections ofignorant
Western translators or as revelations of secret doc­
trines unknown to the Indian exoterics. It is diffi­
cult, therefore, to pursue the writers of the Letters
with criticism to their very doors. They can come
to us, but we cannot go to them. We must halt in
the pass at Darjeeling, where, across the mountains,
we can almost hear the laughter of the omniscient
Mahatmas reverberating at our expense.
114
S E C T I O N X I
THE STYLE AND CONSTRUCTION
OF THE LETTERS
T he Letters are written in English, but in a style
that can only be described as unique. They do not
in taste conform to the best epistolary models in
our language, nor do they even obey the rules of
punctuation, spelling, grammar and construction
commonly observed in English writing. The fact
that the Letters were not written for publication
might justify many of these liberties—if they are
such—and the further consideration that their
writers were said to be natives of India residing in
Tibet might perhaps excuse them as deficiencies.
These allowances having been made, one would
expect that such errors and peculiarities as the
Letters contain would show, in some involuntary
way, vestiges of their writers’ nativity, culture and
tongue. These, however, they do not show. Apart
from a few ornate greetings in the earlier Letters,
such as “Esteemed Brother and Friend”, “Much
Esteemed Sir”, “Good Brother”, there is no trace
of the Orient in the manner of the writing.
Not Oriental
Since the style of the Letters is not Eastern, it
requires some explanation as to why it is in general
so obviously Western, and in particular so fully
"5
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
charged with French flavour and construction. It
is not in respect of French words and phrases
abundantly and perhaps unnecessarily employed
in an English text that we make this comment—
though that in itself is a curious intrusion—for the
range of general knowledge claimed by and for
the Mahatmas would allow for this epistolary play.
When, for example, Mahatma K.H., in writing
Letter xxxi “from the depths of an unknown
valley, amid the steep crags and glaciers of Terich-
Mir”, drops suddenly into the familiar style of the
verandah with the question: “Queer, rCest cepas?”
(p. 240) we realize that he is in this only relaxing
for a moment his grave Mahatmic tone, and we
appreciate the friendly bi-lingual touch. But when
we find him throughout the book writing torrents
of vigorous if rather turbid English, which prove,
when examined, that he is thinking no less hard in
French, his employment of the foreign forms seems
more of a necessity than a grace, and provokes
surprise. Let us, in support of this point, call
attention to some of the more striking instances of
alien terms and construction in the Letters. The
words following marked by us in italics give the
literal but unusual English of the text; those in
brackets give the French basis suggested as present
in the writer’s mind.
A French Grammatical Basis
M .L ., p. 2 before you could m ake the round (faire le
tour) o f H yde Park.
116
The Style and Construction o f the Letters
M .L ., p. 4
23
39
43
60
h i
141
212
226
237
241
255
258
307
364
462
3 L > p- 370
W ere they given to the profan es (les pro­
fanes)
look at yourselves h ow (comme) you really
are.
he rested but (il ne resta que) to accuse us
of—
S.M . passes the tw o th irds (les deux tiers)
o f his life in Trance.
the one element for which the E n g lish
(l’anglais) has no name.
And once th a t (une fois que) you have well
mastered the m eaning—
seems to say a t lea st (au moins) strange.
T he lack o f th at (ce que) you term “low
motives” —
and m akes a violence to (fait violence a) his
feelings—
I have an advice (un avis) to offer.
I w rite bu t seldom letters. (Je n’ecrit que
rarement des lettres.)
he would be the first to suggest you the idea—
(de vous inspirer l’idee).
W hat can w e do! I hear already K .H .
exclaim ing (j’entends deja K .H . qui s’eerie).
succeeded to arouse (reussit a eveiller) his
suspicions—
W h y have you p rin te d it (pourquoi avez vous
l’imprime) before sending it to m e for
revision?
give up entirely caste (renonga entierement a
la caste).
We never bury our dead. T hey are burnt
or left above the earth (sur terre) (K .H .).
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
We could easily overcrowd our space with such
Gallic phrases as the foregoing, but must be
content with another dozen. “The strategy” for
strategy; “The space” for space; “as deep once
more” for as deep again; “cadavre” for corpse;
“comes to age” for comes of age; “The Cendrillon”
for Cinderella; “Don Quichote” for Don Quixote;
“legal” for legitimate; “in the hands of law” for in
the hands of the law; “on the bench of criminals”
(sur le banc des accuses) for in the dock; “a local”
(un local) for a locality; “inclement pays and
cold” for inclement and cold country; “lessons of
English” for lessons in English.
Throughout the book “but” is used in a peculiar
manner. Sometimes, though rarely, it is an English
conjunction, more often it has the sense of “only”,
“solely”, or “merely” ; as, for examples, “I do
not say it was so; I but enquire” ; “I but jokingly
asked O.” ; “speculating but upon the present” ;
“They have disturbed but bats”. To whatever
language these forms may belong, they seem
unhappily placed in modern English; though it is
clear that the examples numbered 39 and 241
above have the value of and originate in the French
“ne-que”.
Transatlantic Elements
We have said that the style of the Letters is gener­
ally Western, and have given proof of their thought-
basis in a European language. We must now remark
upon another component of these polyglot pages;
118
The Style and Construction of the Letters
which, though Western, and a sort of English,
we must for convenience (and we hope without
offence) call “American”. Here follow a few glean­
ings in this field.
(a) The words “skeptics” (pp. i, 3, 5) and
“skepticism” (pp. 4-35) tell their own tale. We
learn from Mr. Sinnett that these awkward k’s,
occurring four times in the Mahatma’s first Letter,
had been the subject of comment at the dinner-
table, where “Madame Blavatsky had been saying
that Koot Hoomi’s spelling of skepticism with a
‘k’ was not an Americanism in his case, but due
to a philological whim ofhis”. And of hers too, may
we add, if The Theosophist (May, ’24, p. 248) does
not in two places belie her: “Let skeptics say—I
did it” ; “which makes skeptics and unbelievers
laugh at us”. Evidently she had forgotten that
Webster had already adopted her own and K.H.’s
“philological whim” by calling “sceptic” a variant
of “skeptic”. “Checkered” (p. 296) is another
Webster-warranted word in the Mahatma’s
vocabulary.
(b) The Mahatmas’ style in handling “mundane
affairs” appears in the following phrases: “that
you, at least—mean business; that you are in
right good earnest” (p. 39); “Some thirty-five
years back” (p. 60); “considering how tight the
negociations . . . prove” (p. 202); “And now
we will talk” (p. 259); “the hopes of their original
backers” (p. 263); “send you a telegram and
answer on back on’t” (p. 269); “if he would
not break with the whole shop altogether” (p. 270);
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“we will split the difference and shake our astral
hands . . . and square the discussion” (p. 271);
“And I like it all the more I promise you” (p. 271);
“Only, look out sharp” (p. 272); “I have very
little time to explore back letters” (p. 289).
(
<
c) Here, perhaps, the Mahatmas have descended
from “mundane affairs” to “worldly business”,
and their pens are sometimes “dipped in gall”.
“ . . . is, I am sorry to say, a true skunk mephi­
tis” (p. 37); “her nerves are worked to a fiddle
string” (p. 39); “the Elementary Spooks” (p. 40);
“it is extinguished, or as H.P.B. has it—snuffed out”
(p. 67); “he is butting against the facts” (p. 75);
“some hum-drum person, some colourless, flack­
less personality” (p. 196); “he was in the wrong
box” (p. 253); “If the laugh is not turned on the
Statesman” (p. 256); “what a Yankee would call
‘a blazing cock-a-hoop’ ” (p. 312); “he can play
the deuce with yourself and society” (p. 326); “as
the Americans would say—thefix I am in” (p. 370);
“the ‘almighty smash’ that is in store for them”
(P- 391)-
(d
.) As an example of the French and American
styles in graceful fusion, we conclude with the
sentence: “ ‘Then and there’ in the eternity may be
a mighty long period” (p. 176).
A good number of the broader phrases quoted
in paragraphs (b) and (c) are from the pen of the
jovial Mahatma M.
120
The Style and Construction of the Letters
Erratic Punctuation
We have mentioned under the present heading
the factors of punctuation, spelling and grammar.
The irregular punctuation of the Letters is one of
their most striking characteristics. In the Occult
World series—one of the clearest of the sections—
the writer is at strife with the harmless necessary
comma in quite two hundred and fifty places, most
of which Mr. Sinnett corrected before the first
seven Letters saw the light. K.H.’s favourite
pointer is the long dash (“Let this—encourage
you”) which gives a sense of oratory to the writing,
and, by making a new rule, avoids breaking an
old one. Occasionally he trips the reader up with
unwanted commas, as in the following sentences:
“We are, even more generous, than you British
are to us” (p. 14); “his development keeps pace,
with the globe on which he is” (p. 95); “one, who,
remained for over nine days in his stirrups”
(p. 286); “Because, he succeeded in catching but
a few stray sparks” (p. 319); “But now the time
has come for us, to try to have you” (p. 327). This
last is one of the seventy slips in punctuation in
Letter lvii, which shows the average of error to
be well sustained throughout the book.
Literary References
In our tenth Section—entitled Indian Philosophy—
we examined the references made by the Mahatmas
to the texts of Hindu and Buddhist writings, and
121
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
showed that they came short of the knowledge
which their high pretensions would lead us to
expect them to possess; therefore that their com­
munications of this sort were neither informative
nor edifying. In this Section we propose to make a
scrutiny into the Mahatmas’ gleanings in other
literary fields, confining our attention to the
acquaintance shown by them with the works of
English writers, poets and novelists, and the
traditional phrases adopted from classical tongues.
The Mahatmas' Model
(a) Shakespeare is quoted twice, and correctly;
Bacon once, but incorrectly; a trifling slip com­
pared to the extension of his life, from 1626 to
1662 in Letter 1; Milton speaks once, we presume
correctly; Edward Bulwer, the novelist—an occult
classic and an evident favourite of the Masters and
Madame Blavatsky—is mentioned many times.
The name of Mejnour, the mystical sage in his
“Zanoni”, is spelt “Mejnoor” (p. 32). The horrible
“Dweller of the Threshold”, borrowed from this
novel, becomes an ever-haunting bogey in both
collections of Letters, and the system of corre­
spondence set up between Mejnour, the remote­
dwelling sage, and the unfortunate idealist Zanoni
seems to be the model of that afterwards adopted
by the Mahatmas in their dealings with Mr. Sinnett
and his friends.
{b) The last line of Arnold’s “Light of Asia”—
“The Dewdrop slips into the shining sea”—is
paraphrased in the following crude and ungram-
122
The Style and Construction of the Letters
matical sentence: “not one of the humble ‘dew-
drops’ . . . have ever tried to slip back into the
shining Sea of Nirvana” (p. 33).
A Libel on a Laureate
(c) Mahatma K.H. winds up Letter xi with six
lines of very poor verse, adding: “You might
have closed your book (The Occult World) with those
lines of Tennyson’s ‘Wakeful Dreamer’ ” (p. 51).
We cannot find the lines in Tennyson’s works;
nor could Mr. Sinnett, apparently, and he must
have written to this effect to his Master. The
latter, in his reply, dated one month later, con­
cludes with an apology in twenty-four lines, ofwhich
the following is the substance: “Quotation from
Tennyson? Really cannot say. Some stray lines
picked up in the astral light or in somebody’s
brain and remembered, I never forget what I
once see or read. A bad habit. . . . Yet, I believe,
the lines quoted were written by Tennyson years
ago, and they are published” (p. 286). On the
other side of the account, we must credit the
Mahatma with having “picked up in the astral
light” and quoted correctly, though without giving
author’s name or title, the first stanza of Christina
Rossetti’s poem “Up-Hill,” beginning: “Does the
road wind up-hill all the way?” (p. 262).
Philosophy, Poetry and Fiction
(d) Among the British scientists for whom the
Mahatmas profess a small measure of respect,
123
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Herbert Spencer is honoured by being four times
mentioned in the Letters. In spite of this seeming
familiarity with the philosopher’s First Principles,
the Mahatma turns his famous category—The
Unknowable—into “The Great Unknown”, an
amendment which would surely have horrified the
unsentimental author had he lived to read it.
(e) Swift’s well-known but seldom correctly
quoted lines on fleas suffer two violations from the
Mahatma’s pen. In the author’s own volume
(1733) the following lines are found in a satirical
piece “On Poetry” :
So, Natur’lists observe, a Flea
Hath smaller Fleas that on him prey;
And these have smaller still to bite ’em,
And so proceed a d infinitum .
In accordance with popular habit, Swift’s lines are
misquoted:
“These fleas have other fleas to bite ’em,
And these— their fleas a d infinitum ” (p. 190).
Not content with this common mistake, the
Mahatma adds another of his own, in attributing
the lines to Butler, for he calls his verse “the
Hudibrasian couplet”.
(/) There is abundant evidence that the lighter
side of English literature is not despised by our
Mahatmas. K.H. knows his great English novelists
—Richardson, Bulwer, Thackeray, Dickens, Feni-
more Cooper and Marion Crawford. Indeed, the
last-named author’s Mr. Isaacs is recommended
to Mr. Sinnett for favourable review in The
124
The Style and Construction of the Letters
Pioneer, and the “young man by the name of
Guppy” is a phrase parodied from Bleak House
and pinned on to two British officers in India
who were aspirants to the mysteries. We note as a
curiosity that a Tibetan recluse knew “the Dickens’
touch” better than Adyar Headquarters. That this
is so appears from a grammatical reviser’s pen
having altered the Mahatma’s phrase: “ ‘the
young men by the name of’—Scott and Banon”
(M.L., p. 11A to “the young men of the name
of,” etc., in E.T.M. (p. 75).
The Mahatmas’ Dog-Latin
(g) We have already shown that the Letters are
underlaid with French construction and freely
sprinkled with French and American phrases.
Here and there Italian tags occur—such as tutti
quanti and villagiatura—but more often we meet
the austere speech of ancient Rome itself, employed
in ecclesiastical, philosophical, legal and logical
terms. We would not make this a point of criticism
but for the fact that most of the phrases are in­
correctly rendered, as the collection here given
proves. We reproduce the text exactly as it is
printed, with suggested corrections enclosed in
brackets.
p. 31 M issio in p a r tis injidelium (p a rtibu s) (K.H.).
53 praetu D eu m nequi d a ri nequi concept p o test sub­
sta n tia (K.H.).
(P raeter D eu m neque d a ri, neque concipi p o test sub­
sta n tia ) {S p in o za ).
125
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
193 Swimming in adversum flum en {in adverse Jlumene)
(K.H.).
193 The m odus operandus ofnature (operandi) (K.H.).
318 independent in its m odus operandus (K.H.).
213 Most unfortunate qui p ro quo {q u id p ro quo)
(K.H.).
227 A most unique qu iproqu o (M.).
297 indirectly mixed in the quiproquo (K.H.).
225 Q u i bono then? {C u i bond) (M.).
386 suppressio veri, suggestis {suggestio) f a l s i (K.H.).
In commenting upon the above errors, we must
allow for the possibility of some of them being due
to careless copying from the MSS. Indeed, we can
testify from examination to the existence of two
of this kind, the first reading odium theologium in
the printed text (p. 385) and odium theologicum in
the MS. The second (p. 440) reads argumentum
ad hominum in the text, and ad hominem in the MS.
Assuming, however, that the remaining phrases
are correctly copied from the MSS., they present
a remarkable series of inexcusable slips, nearly all
from the hand ofa graduate ofa German university,
who never forgets what he has once read. Special
attention ought to be called to the phrases on
pp. 2x3, 227, 297, which exhibit the two Mahatmas
using similar Latin terms and making the same
mistakes.
We reserve for consideration in a later Section
a group of references to Biblical texts, which are
not only remarkable examples of literary licence,
but specially significant in their bearing on the
main theme of this book.
126
S E C T I O N X I I
T H E SO -CALLED “ PR E C IPIT A T IO N ” PROCESS
In the four previous Sections we have given in
outline a view of the philosophical contents and
literary style of the Letters, and we come now to
the consideration of a more physical matter, that
is, the means by which they were said to have been
produced. Although this includes the two questions
of their writing and transmission, we shall for the
present discuss only the first.
It will be remembered that the original announce­
ment to the Western world of the existence of the
Mahatmas in Tibet, and the receipt of letters from
them, was made by Mr. Sinnett in The Occult
World. It was there that he first employed the
chemical term “precipitation” to account for the
letters he had up to that time received. He says:
“The writing was created or precipitated by a
living human correspondent.”
Since it is not alleged that there is any evidence
of precipitation patent to the eye, the ground for
the belief in it is found only in statements in the
Letters themselves. It was from the four pages of
Letter v that Mr. Sinnett extracted for his book
the solitary sentence on this topic: “Besides, bear
in mind, that these my letters, are not written but
impressed or precipitated and then all mistakes
corrected” (p. 19).
Trusting in the written word of his Master, and
127
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
fortified, no doubt, by the statements of Madame
Blavatsky to the same effect, Mr. Sinnett launched
the idea of literary “precipitation” upon the seas
of public credence and criticism in the year 1881,
after he had received at most eight Letters in which
the process had been mentioned twice. It then
became—and we suppose is still—the official and
generally accepted account of the production of
the Mahatma Letters. The extracts we shall now
give from The Early Teachings of the Masters will
be found to support this view.
Mr. Jinarajadasds Account
With a hundred more Letters in his ken than the
eight first granted to Mr. Sinnett, and the advan­
tage of forty more years in which to reflect on the
mysteries of their production, the Indian editor
writes as under in his Preface (p. 5):
“The procedure adopted by the Masters seems
to have been roughly as follows . . . These letters
were not written by hand, but precipitated, that is
not written by hand, but the writing materialized
on the paper by a process used by the Adepts
which involves the use of fourth dimensional
space. . . . In precipitated letters there is no
difference found which distinguishes them from a
letter written by hand—There is no difference
whatsoever in the handwriting. Each Master has
His characteristic handwriting, like any of us.”
“But the remarkable fact is that, while this hand­
writing is personal to a Master, it is also like an
128
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
office handwriting, from a particular office with a
particular chief. Thus, certain pupils of the
Masters M. and K.H. were given the right to
precipitate (by occult means, not to write with the
hand) in Their official handwriting. This is per­
fectly understandable, if we only realize that the
Masters are not ascetics living aloof on the slopes
of the snow-clad Himalayas, having nothing to do
but live in the bliss of higher realms, but rather
heads of great World Departments of activity,
directing many workers and having very little time
to spare.” . . . “Sometimes They personally wrote,
and this was especially the case with letters which
gave directions to aspirants or Chelas whom They
were not able to impress by any other occult means.
But often instructions were given to an advanced
Chela outlining what he was to say in reply to a
question.”
An Evasive Statement
We cannot say that we find any of the above
explanations “perfectly understandable”. The open­
ing sentence, telling us that “the procedure adopted
. . . seems to have been roughly as follows”, is
the keynote of an unauthoritative, indefinite and
evasive statement. It is clear that the Vice-President
does not write from personal knowledge, but from
official tradition, and it is late in time to use the
words “seems” and “roughly” in a scientific and
historical narration. We crave some knowledge of
the chemistry of literary “precipitation”, and we
are referred to the mathematics of “fourth dimen-
129 1
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
sional space”, and then left without a spark of
enlightenment on this deeper mystery. Going on
to say that “each Master has His characteristic
handwriting like any of us”, in which he either
writes or precipitates, the editor adds a fact which
he calls both “remarkable” and “perfectly under­
standable”. This is that certain pupils of the
Masters were allowed to precipitate in their official
handwriting. Since the reason given for this arrange­
ment is that it saves the Masters’ time, we are bound
to suggest that the same result would follow from
the pupils writing in their own hands. The only
result of writing in the Master’s hand and signing
his name is the concealment of the pupil's agency. What
is the object of this arrangement?
The Mahatmas' Own Account
Having obtained very little information from The
Early Teachings, let us now come to Mr. Barker’s
text, and see what the Mahatmas themselves have
to say about Precipitation, in about twenty places.
First, we ought to remark that K.H.’s words
“these my letters” must be taken to refer solely
to his own. At the date of this statement Mahatma
Morya was unknown to Mr. Sinnett, and in the
twenty-five Letters that afterwards came in from
him, there is not a hint that he precipitates; on
the contrary, there are clear indications that he
does not.
i. The first Letter printed from M.—No. xn—
refers with apologies to the illegibility of his earlier
130
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
efforts at writing—which do not find a place in
the book. “I trust you will not find much difficulty
—not as much as hitherto—in making out my
letter. I have become a very plain writer since he
[K.H.] reproached me with making you lose your
valuable time over my scrawlings. His rebuke
struck home, and as you see I have amended my
evil ways” (p. 68).
2. If it should be suggested that the word
“writer” in the above Letter may include “precipi­
tator”, M.’s postscript disposes of the point: “My
writing is good but the paper rather thin for pen­
manship. Cannot write English with a brush
though; would be worse” (p. 70). The last sentence
mystifies us. M. is an Indian, and if he writes in his
native manner he would use a pen; so also if he
wrote in Tibetan script. A brush is a Chinese or
Japanese writing tool; where is the point in saying
he cannot write English with it?
3. On p. 84 K.H. says of M. that “he knows
very little English and hates writing” ; which im­
plies, we suppose, that he is debarred from precipi­
tating, and obliged to use a hateful alternative—
the pen.
4. M. concludes Letter xxix with this abrupt
remark: “I close the longest letter I have ever
written in my life” (p. 228). It is eleven printed
pages long; a great achievement for one who hates
writing, but nothing to call for remark if it had been
precipitated.
5. On p. 262 M. describes his own writing as
“my abominable penmanship”.
131
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
6. On p. 349, M. excuses K.H.’s inability, on
account of official business, “to write him [Mr. S.]
individually whether by pen or precipitation—the
more difficult, not to say costly, method of the two
—to our reputations in the west anyhow”. This little
pleasantry indicates that “the west” was beginning
to ask awkward questions about the marvel of
“precipitation” ; the passage in any case helps to
make it clear that whenever “the pen” comes in
“precipitation” goes out.
7. “I will write more to-morrow”, says M. in his
last Letter in the book (p. 450), but we cannot
identify another communication from him.
The seven citations given above prove con­
clusively that Mahatma Morya does not claim for
himself the ability to precipitate writing. We have
no interest in depriving him of this remarkable
power, but we think we may impute laxity to
both Mr. Sinnett and Mr. Jinarajadasa in attri­
buting to the Mahatmas together, in respect of all
their Letters, a power which only one of them claimed
for a limited number of his own.
What Says K.H.?
Let us now examine the evidence of Mahatma
K.H., who makes the classical claim on p. 19—
“these my letters are precipitated”.
8. In his next Letter (answering an inquiry
from Mr. Sinnett) he speaks of three possible
methods ofcommunication—precipitation, dictation
or writing. “Whether I ‘precipitate’ or dictate
132
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
them or write my answers myself, the difference
in time saved is very minute. I have to think it over,
to photograph every word and sentence carefully
in my brain before it can be repeated by ‘precipi­
tation’ . . . we have to first arrange our sentences
and impress every letter to appear on paper in our
minds before it becomes fit to be read. For the
present, it is all I can tell you. . . . But you must
know and remember one thing; we but follow and
servilely copy nature in her works” (p. 22).
The reader will have observed with surprise
that the mental preliminaries to an act of precipita­
tion are more burdensome than those of ordinary
writing, in which, generally, something is left, as
to the choice of words, to the inspiration of the
moment. Writing (unless it is mere copying) is
practically concurrent with composition, but pre­
cipitation on paper cannot take effect until thought
has finished its work. Every sentence, indeed every
letter, is prearranged in the mind, and then, as we
suppose, the whole “arrangement” descends upon
paper. Since the Letters are not “written by hand”
(as we are told by Adyar) their committal to paper
must also be a mental act. Consequently there are
in precipitation at least two main mental opera­
tions, “arrangement” and “impression”, analo­
gous to those of the printer’s art—“composing”
and “printing”. The first is accomplished letter
by letter, and the second in one stroke.
133
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
The Process Examined
We know well enough how printing is produced;
let us examine the statements made above as to
precipitation.
Since the Mahatma is reluctant to give us more
than a hint in explanation of the process, we must
follow up the clue contained in his words: “We
but follow and servilely copy nature in her works.”
How, then, does Nature precipitate?
In the order of Nature, precipitation occurs—
without the interference of man—in the conversion
of vapours into rain, snow and hail, the laying of
earthy strata in the beds of rivers and seas, and
the loosening of mountainous deposits, glaciers or
avalanches. In some of these cases a change of
temperature is the converting or displacing agent,
and in all of them gravitation is the force producing
the final effect. In chemistry—but now by the
interference of man—natural reagents are employed
to separate substances in solution, and gravitation
again effects their fall. Thus it is—in the words of
Faraday—that “silver is thrown down by copper,
copper by iron, lead by zinc”.
If, as we are told above, literary “throwing
down” is effected by means copied from Nature,
we must infer that such substances as ink and lead
and chalk pencil are capable of being assembled,
against the action of gravity, in some upper region,
there “arranged” in significant forms, and then
released to gravity’s control, just like any other
liquid, chalk or mineral dust. How it is that mind
i34
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
thus masters matter (working “servilely” on the
model of Nature) is a secret only known to the
initiates, for what we have already been told is all
that the Mahatma at present thinks good for us to
know. Yet in spite of the Master’s reticence, we
think that there is one general principle that may
be drawn from our observations on the subject,
and that is that no precipitated literary matter can be
created ex nihilo, or evolved directly from its intellectual
idea; its pre-existence in a material state is admitted,
and indeed it must as certainly have been an article
in a stationery store as was the paper on which it
ultimately falls. If it were otherwise, why did the
Mahatma complain of a shortage of paper in Tibet
and at the same time ask Mr. Sinnett to oblige him
with “some receipt for blue ink” ? (p. 34). Let us
now return to our list of citations.
“Precipitation Unlawful”
9. Letter vm startles us not a little. Eleven pages
on from the above details of the process, K.H.
speaks of precipitation, in his pupil’s case, as
“having become unlawful” (p. 33). Why is this?
We can only think that the Chohan has imposed
this prohibition, which we find still in force seven­
teen months later—in July, 1882. This means that
at least eight more Letters are unprecipitated; a
point that the Vice-President has not apparently
noted.
10. In Letter xvi K.H. remarks that the
“blotched, patchy and mended appearance” of
i35
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
his MSS. “proves that my leisure has come by
snatches, by constant interruptions, and that my
writing has been done in odd places here and
there, with such materials as I could pick up”
(P- 1155-
Why should these petty impediments lie in the
path of our Adept, who may have at need the use
of “fourth dimensional space” ? K.H. gives the
reason: “But for the R u l e that forbids our using
one minimum of power until every ordinary means
has been tried and failed, I might, of course
have given you a lovely ‘precipitation’ as regard
chirography and composition.” We understand
this to mean that the Mahatma must consent to
his letter having “a miserable appearance” rather
than work an unnecessary marvel. Mr. Sinnett
was thanked for having kindly seen the significance
of those “wayside annoyances” ; “they take away
most effectually the flavour of miracle, and make
us as human beings, more thinkable entities”
(p. 116). _
Limitation to ordinary means of writing ap­
parently brought the Mahatma under frequent
exacting criticism, which he humbly deprecates in
a few apologetic passages.
11. “Could you but know how I write my letters
and the time I am able to give to them” (p. 178).
12. “Mistakes—very likely to occur especially
when writing as hurriedly as I do” (p. 181).
13. “Writing my letters, then, as I do, a few
lines now and a few words two hours later; having
to catch up the thread of the same subject, perhaps
136
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
with a dozen or more interruptions between the
beginning and the end, I cannot promise you
anything like Western accuracy” (p. 186).
14. “I write but seldom letters”, says K.H.—
perhaps the most prolific letter writer of his
century—in Letter xxxi, his own twenty-sixth in
the series (p. 241). There is no evidence yet of the
relaxation of the Rule against Precipitation, so we
take it the pen is still in function.
15. In Letter x lv a fuller meaning is attached
by K.H. to the term “precipitation”. It not only
covers the chemical deposit of signs on paper in his
possession, but the greater marvel involved “when
we write inside your closed letters and uncut pages
of books and pamphlets in transit” (p. 267). Mr.
Sinnett himself confirms this in The Occult World.
“I have over and over again received direct writing
produced on paper in sealed envelopes of my own
which was created or precipitated by a living
human correspondent.”
16. An alternative to Precipitation by the
Mahatma himself was dictation to a Chela, either
near by or from a distance. Of an instance of the
latter kind we shall have to treat at length in a
separate Section. Meanwhile we note, in a descrip­
tion of the method by K.H., another acknow­
ledgment of the rigours of “the Rule”. “Last year,
some of my letters to you were precipitated, and
when sweet and easy precipitation was stopped—
well”, etc. (p. 296). We infer from this that at the
date of this Letter (liii) the “sweet and easy”
process is still stopped, and we have to go to
i37
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Letter xcm, 126 pages on, for the next and last
reference to it, which is a backward glance at “the
palmy days of the ‘impressions’ and ‘precipita­
tions’ ” (pp. 424-5).
A Summary of the Evidence
Let us sum up, in conclusion, the evidence for the
remarkable power claimed for the two Masters, and
give our opinion upon it.
The attempts by the editors of the Letters to
give the rationale of literary precipitation are
vague, confused and contradictory. Sometimes the
term is used to describe the act of the Adepts in
depositing unwritten “writing” on paper; some­
times it covers the act of “mental telegraphy” by
an Adept as operator into the mind of a Chela as
amanuensis, in which case the letter may be after­
wards hand-written; at another time it signifies
the penetration of sealed postal envelopes with
written matter while they are in the mail-bags of
the State. Mr. Sinnett, using terms that Faraday
would not have tolerated, says the last kind of
writing was “created or precipitated by a living
human correspondent”. If it was one it could not
have been the other; nor could it have been both;
for “creation” implies a new existence and “precipita­
tion” a pre-existence.
Mr. Jinarajadasa believes, and leads the readers
of The Early Teachings to believe, that all the
Letters in his book were “materialized on the
paper by . . . the use of fourth dimensional
138
The So-Called “ Precipitation ” Process
space”, while the Mahatmas themselves withhold
any such explanation. They speak of servilely
copying Nature, and acknowledge, more often
than any other agency, the familiar arts and
instruments of the schoolroom and the office—
writing, pens, ink and paper.
If, in this dilemma, we have to make a choice,
we lean to the writers’ side rather than to the
editor’s. And what, on the whole, do the writers
say? Our extracts have shown. Mahatma Morya
refers only once to his brother’s power (but present
“inability”) to precipitate, while he makes no claim
to it himself. Koot Hoomi claims the power, but
appears to have used it more rarely than has
been generally supposed. Our next two Sections
will probably show that it might have been to his
advantage not to have used it at all.
!39
S E C T I O N X I I I
“THE KIDDLE INCIDENT”
The Mahatma Charged with Plagiarism
In Section v of this our book, under the heading
The Mahatma’s Knowledge, we quoted a passage in
which the writer alluded to the embarrassments
likely to arise from his ability to read the “Akasic
libraries”, where past, present and even future
events were recorded; whence, if care were not
taken to note the signs of the times and places,
awkward confusions might ensue.
The incident we are about to relate is a case of
this kind, which gave the occasion for the Mahatma’s
confession of his roving habit of mind, which he
advanced as an excuse for his having read in the
Akasa, and re-written as his own, some words spoken in
a lecture, printed in a journal, and claimed by another
man. In consequence of this lapse, the Mahatma
was charged with plagiarism.
The evidence in the case is contained in the
following five Mahatma Letters to Mr. Sinnett:
(a) Letter vi, “The original Kiddle Letter”, received
Allahabad, December io, 1880.
(b) Letter l v , probably received at Elberfeld, early
1883.
(c) Letter lx iii, written January, 1884, received
London, Summer, 1884.
140
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
(d) Letter l x v , received London, Summer, 1884.
(e) Letter xcm, “The restored Kiddle Letter”, received
London, December, 1883.
(a) The story begins with the publication in
1881 of the first edition of The Occult World, in
which about one-half of Letter vi in the present
series was printed (pp. 22-4). The book had not
long been out when a certain Mr. Kiddle, a con­
vert to Spiritualism, wrote to one of the journals
of that cult (and also to Mr. Sinnett) to say that
he was the originator of a passage of about twenty-
four lines in the Mahatma’s sixth Letter. The
painful and ridiculous sequel to this startling claim
will now be traced from The Mahatma Letters
themselves, with a few additions from other
sources.
Another Bacon-Shakespeare Mystery
(,b) In Letter lv, undated, but probably received
by Mr. Sinnett early in 1883, when staying near
Madame Blavatsky at Elberfeld, in Germany, there
are references by K.H. to a coming crisis in the
affairs of the Theosophical Society, and warnings
of a number of dangers in the path. “I warned you
all through Olcott in April last of what was ready
to burst at Adyar, and told him not to be surprised
when the mine should be fired” (p. 322).
The above dangers were, however, comparatively
small matters; the “storm” was the impending
retirement of Madame Blavatsky, a step said to be
directly due to Mr. Sinnett’s publications, in which
too little had been made of “the original policy
141
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
of the T.S.” and too much of “Tibetan brothers
and phenomena” (p. 323).
The Mahatma approaches the subject with
humble words but a nonchalant air. He admits that
“even an ‘adept’ when acting in his body is not
beyond mistakes due to human carelessness. . . .
There is always that danger if one has neglected
to ascertain whether the words and sentences
rushing into the mind come all from within or
whether some may have been impressed from
without”. Then follows the sentence, already cited,
in which the Mahatma, in general terms, admits his
“habit of often quoting, minus quotation marks”,
from the Akasic libraries, of which habit he gives an
instance—“as in the Kiddle case”. He will not do
this again, however, for he has “received a lesson
now on the European plane on the danger of
corresponding with western literati” (p. 324). Thus
the Mahatma tries to laugh the matter off, but his
humour gets heavy and embittered when he taunts
Mr. Kiddle with ingratitude for having been
raised almost from nonentity to fame by this little
mistake. The topic, he says, will one day equal in
interest “the Bacon-Shakespeare mystery”.
Eastern and Western Plagiarism
(c) Letter lx iii, received in London, 1884, further
reviews the “quasi-disastrous” results of the publi­
cation of the Mahatmas’ Letters, and their exposi­
tion by a non-initiate. “We had tried an experi­
ment and sadly failed!” says K.H. (p. 356), and
142
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
goes on to protest strongly against a suggestion
to publish any more. “It is neither new ‘Kiddle
developments’ that I seek to avoid, nor criticism
directed against my personality, which indeed can
hardly be reached; but I rather try to save yourself
and Society from new troubles, which would be
serious this time” (p. 357).
(1
d) Letter lxv, following the above, takes up
the cry of “plagiarism”, which seems to have rent
the air of the Lodges for some time past. “We, of
Tibet and China know not what you mean by
the word” (p. 364), says K.H. in defence, after
which, as a proof of the wide divergence between
Eastern and Western literary morals, he mentions
the great dictionary of Pai-Wouen-Ten-Fu, from
which everyone is free to take out whole sentences
“and to frame them to express his thought”. He
adds: “This does not apply to the Kiddle case
which happened just as I told you.” This means
that if Mr. Kiddle’s phrases had been recorded in
this Eastern book instead of in The Banner of Light,
he would have had to put up with their being taken
out whole by any consultant, “minus quotation
marks” ; but since they are not in that great
dictionary, he has the right to hale before a judge
and jury of “Western literati” a Master of the
Eastern wisdom.
The position was evidently growing intolerable,
and a sudden and angry turn is given to the Letter
by the Mahatma’s remark to Mr. Sinnett: “For the
Kiddle business it is your own fault. Why have you
printed the Occult World before sending it to me
143
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
for revision? I would have never allowed the
passage to pass.” Thus the Mahatma’s first literary
herald to the world, which had been called by
him “a little jewel”, presented to the Chohan, and
discussed at the Lamasery at Ghalaring-tcho, had
apparently come from the press with an undetected
passage in it, which, on Western literary principles,
would be called a case of plagiarism. “Alas, how
easily things go wrong”, even on the Himalayas!
The Mystery Solved
(e) The “wretched little Kiddle incident” had
troubled Mr. Sinnett ever since its occurrence and
he constantly had put upon him the duty of
explaining it away, a task which the Mahatma at
last was taxed his friend’s abilities to the utmost,
for the reason now to be revealed—he had not been
given the whole truth of the matter.
It is evident that the Mahatma is himself heartily
sick of the Kiddle-Koothumi controversy, which he
nevertheless again raises to the rank of a great
literary problem, and essays to solve it, finally and
authoritatively, in Letter xciii.
The Mahatma first exacts from Mr. Sinnett a
pledge to keep the details of the explanation secret,
and opens in a vein of pleasant raillery at the
expense of his accusers. “Personally, I am in­
different, of course, to the issue. But for your sake
and that of the Society I may make one more
effort to clear the horizon of one of its ‘blackest’
clouds” (p. 420). Here begins his effort.
144
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
“K.H.—it is settled—is a plagiarist”. . . . “An
alleged ‘adept’ unable to evolve out of his ‘small
oriental brain’ any idea or words worthy of Plato,
turned to that deep tank of profound philosophy,
the Banner of Light, and drew therefrom the sen­
tences best fitted to express his rather entangled
ideas, which had fallen from the inspired lips of
Mr. Henry Kiddle!” Apart from the self-accusing
mockery in this passage, we are bound to say that
we read the facts as stated; a borrowing of some
sort had undoubtedly been made, and we cannot
think the critics were culpable or malicious in
detecting it, and supposing prima facie that it had
been read by the Mahatma in The Banner of Light,
if not on the Akasic files at Tzigadze, then perhaps
nearer home at Adyar. Since the explanation about
to be given to Mr. Sinnett is hedged round with an
exacted vow of secrecy, it would seem to have been
too recondite for the critics to think out for them­
selves ; therefore the Mahatma’s scorn at their own
bungling hypothesis is certainly misplaced.
A Poetical Witness
“The decree is pronounced; K.H., whoever he
is, has stolen passages from Mr. Kiddle”—this is
the proposition advanced for trial by the self-
prosecuting Mahatma. The first and only inde­
pendent witness for the defence is none other than
our own John Milton, who somewhere drily
observes that “such kind of borrowing as this, if
it be not bettered by the borrower, is accounted
145 K
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
plagiary” (p. 421). We do not know this passage
in its place, but if we may trust our ear, it is Milton’s
own diction, and is likely to be his doctrine too.
He is speaking, of course, as an authority in Western
literary morals, and his conditional allowance of
borrowing where there is bettering was based, no
doubt, on the notorious practice of a poet whom
in a sonnet he endears with the title “my
Shakespear”.
Milton’s expert evidence is evidently intended
to convey the subtle suggestion that although the
Mahatma had borrowed from Mr. Kiddle, he had
at the same time “bettered” him, and was more
to be thanked than blamed. Therefore “on such
grounds my literary larceny does not appear very
formidable after all”. The affair does not seriously
disturb the Mahatma’s mind; indeed, in some of its
aspects, it is still a laughing matter. “The solution
is so simple, and the circumstances so amusing, that
I confess I laughed when my attention was first
drawn to it, some time since. Nay, it is calculated
to make me smile even now” (p. 421).
“ The Rosetta Stone”
How shall we tell the remainder of this astounding
story? It fills seven pages of type in the book, wipes
out the previous explanations of the Kiddle Letter,
and offers an entirely new one, which it likens to
the famous Rosetta Stone, which was, as most of
our readers know, the key that unlocked the hidden
meanings of the Egyptian hieroglyphs. We must
146
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
abbreviate the Mahatma’s own story, and tell it
for the most part—if our readers will trust us—
“minus quotation marks”, in the form of a
narrative.
About December ioth, 1880, when Mr. Sinnett
was at Allahabad, he received from the Mahatma
Letter vi, beginning abruptly “No, you do not
write too much”, showing that the Englishman’s
last letter was at the moment in the Tibetan Master’s
mind or hand. Guided by Mr. Sinnett’s letter, the
Mahatma passes from point to point of the corre­
spondents’ mutual interests. We pass over these
details, and come to the concluding passage. The
whole Letter is rounded off with twenty-four lines
of not very original philosophic verbiage, begin­
ning “Plato was right” and ending “this material
speck of dirt” (p. 24). These twenty-four lines in­
clude and constitute Mr. Kiddle’s “claim”. He
says they were spoken by him in a lecture, and
reported in a journal.
Three Tears After
How was it that the mistake arose? The “Kiddle”
Letter, says the Mahatma, was framed in his mind
while he was on a journey and on horseback. It was
dictated mentally “in the direction of” a not very
expert young Chela, who, in precipitating it,
omitted half and distorted the rest. Imprudently
enough, it was not corrected by the Mahatma, but
was sent off—and forgotten. The Mahatma was
physically very tired at the time by a ride of forty-
147
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
eight consecutive hours, and was half asleep.
Besides, he had important psychic business to
attend to, and was pressed for time.
The Mahatma goes on to say that he had never
evoked Mr. Kiddle’s physiognomy, or even heard
of his existence, but admits that he had “directed
his attention”, some two months before, to the
annual camping movement of the American
Spiritualists, attended, no doubt, by Mr. Kiddle.
Some general ideas there uttered had impressed his
mind, and among these, apparently, those of Mr.
Kiddle, whom he had innocently defrauded by
reproducing them in his Letter. The Letter, he
admitted, would look suspicious, and lay a founda­
tion for censure, if it had been dictated by him as
printed; but this it was not, as has just been
stated.
Mental Telegraphy
In order to appreciate the serious result of the
deflection of the Mahatma’s original ideas by in­
expert reception and transcription, it is needful
that we know the details of the process of dictation
in a normal case, where the receiver and transcriber
is expert, and where the sender is wide awake, not
exhausted by a journey on horseback, nor pre­
occupied with other psychic matters, nor pressed
for time. Therefore the following explanation is
given of the rationale of “Mental Telegraphy”.
i. The sender is active, the receiver passive. The
sender holds the ideas firmly in his own brain,
148
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
whence they arise instantaneously in the re­
ceiver’s brain.
2. The rationale of Mental Precipitation is this:
the image or idea just mentioned as arising
in the receiver’s brain is transferred upon, or
rather into, the paper, correctly or otherwise
according to the closeness of attention given to
it by the sender or receiver or both. (This is a
matter that it will be proper to look into more
closely in our examination of the manu­
scripts.)
The Restored Version
If we accept the Mahatma’s story, we are now in a
position to understand why half of his originally
conceived ideas did not come through, and the rest
were blurred. Something had gone wrong with the
mental telegraphic system, and the message would
have to be repeated.
The “restored version” of the passage given in
The Mahatma Letters (p. 425) contains fifty-four
instead of twenty-four lines. It includes almost all
the words of Mr. Kiddle’s “claim”, and places
them in their original order, but with interpolations
of other matter which deprive them of their original sense.
As compensation for the original robbery, the
old words, taken with their new conjunctions, not
only make a new sense, but an opposite sense; they
set up a vigorous argument against the cult of
Spiritualism to which Mr. Kiddle had been con­
verted ! Between his patronizing sentence “Plato
i49
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
was right” and the characteristic dictum of trans­
cendental philosophy: “Ideas rule the world”, the
tell-tale “Rosetta Stone” throws nine lines of
italic matter on the “grotesquely perverted views
and notions” of the Spiritualists.
To make this point clear we print a few lines
of the “restored fragments”, recovered by the
Mahatma’s investigation; the italic passages are
those which the inexpert chela and the exhausted
Mahatma between them are said to have dropped
out of Letter vi; the remainder are claimed by
Mr. Kiddle.
“Plato was right to re-admit every element of specula­
tion which Socrateshaddiscarded. Theproblemsofuniversal
being are not unattainable or worthless if attained. But
the latter can be solved only by mastering those elements
that are now looming on the horizon of the profane. Even
the Spiritists, with their mistaken, grotesquely perverted
views and notions are hazily realizing the new situation.
They prophesy and their prophecies are not always
without a point of truth in them, of intuitional pre-vision,
so to say. Hear some of them re-asserting the old, old
axiom that “Ideas rule the world”, etc. (p. 425).
And so the “restoration” goes on for forty more
lines, and the Mahatma concludes: “This is the
true copy of the original document as now restored
—the ‘Rosetta Stone’ of the Kiddle incident”
(p. 426).
The case of Kiddle versus Koot Hoomi had
dragged on in Mr. Sinnett’s correspondence, the
psychical journals and the Theosophical Lodges,
for three years, which was much longer than the
150
“ The Kiddle Incident ”
time taken by the two Tichborne trials. Plagiarism
or wilful borrowing of literary matter had been
alleged against an omniscient Mahatma, in­
voluntary “Akasic reading” had been admitted
by him as an excuse, and “bettering” pleaded in
extenuation. Yet the case was far from being
settled. The next Section will show it still under
discussion, in the private and public writings of
Madame Blavatsky.
I51
S E C T I O N X I V
“THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT”
An Official Excusefor the Kiddle Blunder
T he Section entitled “The Kiddle Incident” ter­
minates with what seems like a triumph of the
Mahatma, if not over Mr. Kiddle, at least over
those Theosophical doubters whose murmurs had
stirred their Master to a condescending and
somewhat laboured explanation. The present
Section is separated from the foregoing one because
it deals with a second and an official excuse for the
“Incident”, which followed so hard on the heels
of the Mahatma’s secret effort as to suggest its
insufficiency.
As already mentioned, the explanation of the
Kiddle mystery embodied in Letter xcm was not
to be made public. “I have done, and you may
now, in your turn, do what you please with these
facts, except the making use of them in print or
even speaking of them to the opponents, save in
general terms” (p. 427).
Why this secrecy and caution? Was it suspected
that the Mahatma’s tortuous apology, if published,
would neither “go down” with the critics nor
satisfy the minds of loyal disciples, who had waited
for it for years? We cannot tell, but in any case it
was not long before the interdict on its publication
was removed, and in a very strange manner. In
152
“ The Original Document ”
Letter xciv, following immediately the pages
just reviewed, and written a few weeks later, K.H.
says: “Amid the arduous labours it has pleased
the venerable Chohan to entrust me with—I had
entirely forgotten the ‘Kiddle incident’.” Fortunate
Master, to be so burdened with duties as to obtain
oblivion of this long-remembered and wretched
matter in three weeks! What would not many of
his disciples have given to be able to forget it in as
many years? Yet so much at ease is the Mahatma,
that he not only revokes the charge of secrecy, but
informs Mr. Sinnett that the secret he had carefully
kept has already been revealed to other persons.
The half-true “line of argument” he had given to
the “gifted editor of the Theosophist”, to be worked
up into printed pabulum to satisfy startled readers,
has been supplemented by the rest of the facts.
Says the Mahatma: “The several letters and
articles in the Theosophist given out with my per­
mission by General Morgan, Subba Row and
Dharani Dhu may pave the way for you” (p. 429).
Alarm at the T.S. Headquarters
Thus anticipated at Headquarters, Mr. Sinnett
had no option but to print “the restored fragments”
of Letter vi in the next edition of The Occult World,
with the testimonies above mentioned from The
Theosophist for December, 1883. Headquarters, he
says, had come into possession of the true facts of
the case. To the official journal Subba Row had
contributed “a very cautiously worded article,
i53
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
hinting at the actual explanation”. . . . “Some­
body must have blundered”. . . . The Letter was
“unconsciously altered through the carelessness and
ignorance ofthe chela by whom it was precipitated”.
. . . “I now assert (writes Subba Row) that I know
it for certain, from an inspection of the original
precipitated proof, that such was the case.” General
Morgan adds his evidence that “many a passage
was entirely omitted from the letter received by
Mr. Sinnett”, and Mr. Sinnett himself makes the
comment: “The public would be treated to a rare
sight—namely an akasic impression as good as a
photograph of mentally expressed thoughts dictated
from a distance” (Occult World, 3rd Edition,
Appendix).
H.P.B. on the Incident
We are told by K.H. that the gifted editor of The
Theosophist had been “off her head since the Kiddle
accusation”. For her private feelings on the matter
we are fortunately able to refer to The Letters of
H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett. Writing from
Adyar, some time in October, 1883, Madame
Blavatsky says: “See the grin and fiendish sneer of
M. A. Oxon in Light on September 8 against
the Kiddle accusation. . . . K.H. plagiarising from
Kiddle!! . . . And fancy, of what a philosophical
importance these Kiddle lines, to be worthy of
plagiarism! Next to ‘
John, bring me my dinner’,
‘ideas that travel or rule the world’—have been men­
tioned since the days of Plato thousands of times”
(p. 60).
*54
“ The Original Document ”
From Adyar, November 17, 1883, Madame
Blavatsky again writes: “K.H. plagiarised from
Kiddle! Ye Gods and little fishes. And suppose he
has not? Of course they the subtle metaphysicians
will not believe the true version of the story as I
know it. So much the worse for the fools and
Sadducees. . . . Plagiarise from the Banner of
Light\ that sweet spirits’ slop-basin—the asses!”
(p. 66).
It should be noted that Madame Blavatsky is in
this letter of November 17th making the first
communication to Mr. Sinnett of the “true version of
the story”. The Mahatma’s Letter xcm, just
reviewed, had not yet been written; nevertheless “the
gifted editor” employs by anticipation some of its
“strictly private” arguments and phrases. She
assumes that the Master “must have good reasons”
for keeping his disciple in the dark, and yet thinks
it not undutiful to reveal, in a few swift lines,
the essence of the explanation that he holds back.
When the Letter was dictated mentally, she says, the
Mahatma and Chela were 300 miles apart; the
“young fool”, with the precipitation before him,
had misunderstood and skipped “half of the
sentences” (p. 66).
How did the gifted editor obtain this “true
version” ? It appears that “Subba Row”—a Chela
at Adyar—“brought to us the original scrap of
Kashmir paper (given to him by my Boss) on
which appeared that whole page from the letter you
published. . . . Why that letter is but one third of the
letter dictated” (p. 67). Here the apologists are in
i55
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
disagreement with one another and with the facts.
In the Mahatma’s own excuse it is one-half, in the
editor’s it is but one-third.; may we repeat that
actually the proportion between the disputed pas­
sages is twenty-four lines to fifty-four. If we add the
undisputed parts of Letter vi, the proportion
between it and its “true version” is neither one-
half nor one-third, but thirteen-sixteenths.
The Original Scrap ofPaper
With the “Kashmir paper” before her, the editor
begins an argument on the want of connection
between passages in Letter vi, which is so like the
Mahatma’s own argument (yet to be written) that
it breaks off abruptly, as if the writer realized that
she was treading on forbidden ground. “Several
lines of H.P.B.’s writing have apparently been
completely erased (says Mr. Barker in a footnote)
and the following note precipitated in K.H.’s
handwriting.” “ True proof of her discretion! I will
tell you all myself as soon as I have an hour's leisure.
K.H.” (p. 67).
H.P.B. concludes: “But since they don’t want me
to speak of this I better not say a word more lest
M. should again pitch into me! To other matters.”
“I better not” ; another “proof of her discretion” !
The Mahatma, as we have seen, found the
necessary hour’s leisure, wrote Letter xcm to Mr.
Sinnett, exacted secrecy in regard to it, but failed
to say the secret was already out and would soon
be in print. Further, he completely exonerated the
156
“ The Original Document ”
Chela, whom the official explanations had blamed,
and took all the blame on himself for the unfor­
tunate mistake.
A Brieffo'r the Chela
We must make some effort to bring this tale to an
end, for the longer it goes on and the more tellers
it employs, the more entangled, contradictory and
incomprehensible it becomes. Yet at the risk of
stretching this Section to an inordinate length, we
must summarize the arguments on behalf of the
unnamed Chela, who, by his vows of silence and
obedience, was perforce bound to abstain from
defending himself.
Let us first “table” the documents in this part of
the case, of which there are three.
1. “ The original (akasic) impression” (p. 422) given
by the “Boss” to Subba Row, and shown by
him to Headquarters. It ought now to be lying
in the archives at Adyar, if it is anywhere.
2. The so-called imperfect copy of this, made by the
Chela (No. vi in Mr. Barker’s collection). “The
letter in your possession was written by the
chela.” “Bear in mind, also the ‘O.L.’s’
emphatic denial at Simla that my first letter
had ever been written by myself” (p. 424).*
3. The Mahatma's own Letter (No. xcm in Mr.
Barker’s collection) “I transcribe them with my
own hand this once” (p. 424).*
* For an examination of the handwritings of Letters vi and
xcm, see Section xvn, on The Manuscripts Examined, p. 224.
*57
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Now let us observe that the Chela is charged or
credited—it does not matter which—with having
been partly responsible for the contents of and
omissions from document 2, which he wrote by
his Master’s dictation somewhere in Tibet, with
three hundred miles of space between them. Let
anyone read the Letter through and judge whether
it is the least unlike, either in matter or manner,
all the other Letters in the book signed “K.H.”
To our mind its seven paragraphs on Precipitation,
Indian journalism, Spiritualistic seances, Mr.
Hume’s character, Occultism, Planetary Spirits
and Universal Brotherhood are in the Mahatma’s
authentic style, and exhibit not the slightest sign
of mental weariness on the part of the dictator
or inexpertness on the part of the scribe. Indeed,
there is no charge that any portion but the last para­
graph suffers from the inabilities alleged. How was
it that only here the Master’s sleepiness and the
“boy’s” inexpertness began to tell on the writing,
and cause the dropping of “whole sentences” from
the original? And why was it that this so-called
act of “carelessness” had in its outcome all the
evidences of care? How did an anti-spiritualistic
argument of fifty-four lines shrink to a philosophical
platitude of twenty-four, and not only make sense
of a sort, but exactly reproduce ideas which an
American Spiritualist was not ashamed to claim
as his own? Would not most people call the boy’s
performance—if it was really his—“expert” rather
than “inexpert” ?
On the evidence of the documents, and after
158
“ The Original Document ”
sifting the statements made in regard to them, we
claim acquittal for the Chela. If a more emphatic
testimony to his innocence be required, hear in con­
clusion what his Master says: “When asked by him
at the time, whether I would look it over and
correct I answered, imprudently, I confess—
‘anyhow will do, my boy—it is of no great im­
portance if you skip a few words’ ” (p. 422). Of
what weight, then, is the evidence of “the gifted
editor” and four favoured residents at Adyar, based
though it may have been on reading the “akasic
impression” itself, compared with the plain state­
ment of the Mahatma? “Cautiously worded”,
indeed, their articles and hints would have to be
to outweigh the considered acknowledgment of
their Master.
The End of the Incident
The readers of this Section must judge for them­
selves whether or not the efforts of the Mahatma
to drive away from the Theosophical horizon what
he calls “one of its blackest clouds” were successful.
As we are not writing, nor even studying, the
history of the Theosophical Society, we are unable
to say how far the Mahatma’s views on the incident
were shared by his circle of disciples, and his
efforts to clear the matter up supported by them.
If M.’s “pitching into” H.P.B. had the silencing
effect it was intended to have, a like discretion
was in time shown by Mr. Sinnett. As we have said,
the “borrowing” from Mr. Kiddle became evident
159
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
to the victim of it on reading the First Edition
of The Occult World, and the “explanation” of it
appeared in the Third Edition. On consulting the
Ninth Edition, now lent out to borrowers in Theo-
sophical Lodges, we find that the whole incident
is completely suppressed. Twenty lines of Letter vi
are printed on p. 121, whence the author skips
the rest—Kiddle matter, Plato and all—and begins
again at Letter vm. Looking into the Appendix,
where one might expect to find the “explanation”
pigeonholed, we find that, too, has vanished.
Western prudence has prevailed over Asiatic
literary morals and contradictory and confused
excuses. “The least said the soonest mended”
would have been the wisest policy from the first;
but what can suppression do now? Since so much
has been said, and so much more based and built
upon it in the interval of years, it is doubtful
whether even silence can now unsay it.
On the Side of the Sadducees
Seeing that Mr. Sinnett suppressed the evidences,
as far as he could, of the Kiddle incident, we can
understand the feelings of one of his surviving
colleagues, whom we have already quoted, who
says that had it been possible, the Mahatmas’
letters would have been kept by the Theosophical
Society a perpetual secret.
It may reasonably be asked of us whether, having
examined and reviewed this particular problem at
considerable length, we have formed an opinion
160
“ The Original Document ”
upon its issues. We have already thrown out some
of our intuitions on this point, and may now briefly
summarize our conclusions. To put it plainly, we
are on the side of the Sadducees. We think the
writer (or composer) of Letter vi had read The
Banner of Light, and had borrowed from it the
printed words of Mr. Kiddle. On being charged
with an act inconsistent with his “inability to err”,
he proved himself not enough of a man and too
much of a Mahatma to admit the fact. Then, to
show that his intention, at any rate, was quite
different from his and the Chela’s joint execution,
he produced “an original impression” which was
meant to prove his case. We hold this “original”
document to have been written after the Kiddle outcry was
raised, and that the hypothesis of an erroneous
transcription of it, advanced by its supposed writer
and confirmed by Adyar Headquarters, constitutes
a daring and ingenious and yet a transparent
literary pretence.
It is not enough, however, to prove an act of
deception; we must show against whom the charge
lies. This we do in the next Section—The Blavatsky
Hypothesis.
161 L
PART III
T H E D E M O N S T R A T I O N
S E C T I O N X V
THE BLAVATSKY HYPOTHESIS
In the first and second Parts of this book we have
been occupied in propounding and elaborating
the question on its title page and gathering from
several directions the evidence for an answer to
it. In this, the third Part, we present in concise
form the results of these surveys, and produce
facts of sufficient weight to carry our argument to
a conclusion. Two Sections (xv and xvi) are
devoted mainly to the examination and comparison
of the printed Texts of the Blavatsky and Mahatma
Letters, and one Section (xvn) to a scrutiny of the
original documents. The conclusion we drawfrom each
of these investigations is that Madame Blavatsky wrote
the Mahatma Letters.
Before we undertake to prove our own hypo­
thesis of the authorship of the Letters, let us re-state
the precise terms of the claims made for them
by their receivers and compilers, and indicate what
part of these claims we propose to disprove.
The statements made about the Mahatmas as
men are briefly these: That they belong to a class
of human beings called “Adepts”, who are endowed
with supernormal physical, intellectual and psychic
powers, and possess in consequence a knowledge of
the universe so vast as to amount to “a species of
omniscience”.
What are the statements made about the
165
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Mahatma Letters that we are asked to believe?
Briefly, they are three. First, that they were not
written by hand, but were produced by an occult
process called “precipitation”. Second, that they
originated in Tibet (and other places) and were
sent to their destination “by astral post”, other­
wise called “the use of fourth dimensional space”,
and sometimes “precipitation”. Third, that the last
part of the journey—the delivery of the Letters—
was often witnessed as a “phenomenon” by the
receivers and others, except in cases where they
were quietly and mysteriously placed, or com­
pleted their course through the postal service.
We may add the information, gleaned from a
few places in the Mahatma Letters, that com­
munications addressed to the Masters by their trust­
ful disciples reached them by metaphysical means
similar to those above described. No part of the
outward journey, however, was visible. Letters in­
tended for the Mahatmas were at first given to
Madame Blavatsky to forward, but later, to avoid
suspicion of her agency or interference, they were
placed by the senders in a so-called “shrine”,
whence, it was supposed, they were “taken up” by
the Mahatmas’ occult powers.
It would be futile, as well as irrelevant to our
argument, to challenge on scientific grounds the
possibility of the marvellous powers here described
being exercised by man. We shall not affront
the believers in Mahatmas and Adepts by calling
their faith preposterous, but we shall grapple with
the definite historical issue as to whether or not
166
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
the Mahatma Letters were composed and written
by the persons and the means alleged. Here we
are on ground where the matter can be tested, and
we shall be content to gauge the literary productions
attributed to the Mahatmas by the common stan­
dards of accordance with known fact, consistency of
statement, comparison of styles, canons of taste,
weight of evidence and credit of witnesses.
Did the Mahatmas Write the Letters?
We are able to dispose of the last of the above
points first. Never have there been, nor are there
now, any witnesses to the genuineness of the
Mahatma Letters. Obviously the present publishers
can vouch for nothing, and the editors and com­
pilers can only say from what persons, alive or
dead, they received the manuscripts. Messrs. Sinnett
and Hume, now deceased, could in life only say
positively that they received the Letters “pheno­
menally” or through the post. They could not say
they knew from whom they came. On this point the
Letters themselves are their only witnesses.
It is a maxim in debate that “the burden of
proof (or disproof) rests with the denier”. We
hardly think that in undertaking a disproof of the
genuineness of the Mahatma Letters we are
shouldering a “burden” in the literal sense of the
term, for we are sure the citations we have linked
up into a connected story in previous Sections have
carried the disproof no small distance, and con­
siderably lightened our argumentative load. If our
167
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
selections and transcriptions have not done them
an injustice, the “Adepts” into whose privacy we
have been able to look do not conform to the type
of high-souled recluses sketched in the various
editors’ annotations, nor can they compare in
character with most of their predecessors on the
philosophic and prophetic path. Undignified fami­
liarity and crude humour are among their least
objectionable traits, and childish boasts, intellectual
and racial pride, bitter resentments and personal
abuse are frequent blots on their philosophic
pages.
The Letters as Literature
Considered as literature, the Mahatma Letters are
probably inferior in style to any other productions
of their class. They are entirely lacking in the art
of carrying conviction, and many of their artifices
to this end are transparent even to an unsuspicious
reader. Only a few of them are dated or addressed,
a fact which may be read either as unworldly
carelessness or secretive care, and the occasional
picturesque narrations and topographical details
sprinkled in the correspondence are so uncircum­
stantial as to impress the imagination less than the
tales of Sinbad.
Whatever may be said for the philosophy of the
Letters on the ground of its truth and the force
of its expression, it is entirely lacking in beauty
of presentation. From these turgid pages not one
memorable passage has emerged as a quotable text or
168
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
maxim after fifty years of faith, which fact justifies
the cautious corrections and revisions ofsuch parts as
were at first made known, and explains the annoy­
ance expressed in some quarters at their complete
disclosure. It is true these Letters were not written
for publication to the world, therefore their writers
could afford to neglect the formal perfections of the
scriptures and philosophies which they always
scornfully abused. But now that they are at last
presented to be read by the world, they cannot
escape the ordeal of a trial and the shame of a
comparison.
Errors and Deceptions
If the formal imperfection of the Letters is to be
passed over as of little importance, the same plea
cannot be made for the astonishing number of
palpable errors they contain. Why are these
omniscient Mahatmas familiar with the seven
heavens and the corona of the sun, and at sea in
their English tenses? Why do they write from
Tibet to an Englishman in India in the thought
basis of Paris and the street locutions of New
York? Further, we must press home the question
as to why, being Indians, they are unable clearly
to expound Indian philosphy, but fall into in­
extricable confusions, and do not scruple to falsify
verifiable documents in pursuit of an “eclectic”
propaganda? We must also ask why, being the
only known possessors of the power of “precipita­
ting” letters and sending them through space, the
169
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Mahatmas made tantalizing disclosures of the
technique of the process to their one trustful pupil,
and saddled him with the responsibility of giving
an unintelligible theory of it to the world? Was it
to draw off suspicion from another hand that this
account of the origin of the Mahatma Letters was
put forth?
Lastly, we ask why an omniscient Mahatma,
endowed with the treasures of great dictionaries,
archaic books and akasic records, walked unwarily
into the pit of plagiarism, and gave out as his own
thoughts some words “not only pronounced by
modern lips but already written and printed” by
another man—“as in the Kiddle case” ? And why,
when found out, did he make light of the slip, and
frame, at the suggestion of Adyar Headquarters, a
shuffling explanation that proved so incredible that
it had to be erased from Theosophical records?
The above is the substance of the evidence
obtained from the Mahatma Letters themselves in
disproof of the Mahatma thesis. No Mahatmas
could have written such letters. Nevertheless, they
were written; if not by the Mahatmas, then by
whom? So far we have submitted evidence tending
to disproof; we now give positive proof that they
were the work of another hand.
M r . S in n e tt’s P r o s a n d C on s
From the circumstances in which the Mahatma
Letters began to appear in India in the year 1880,
it was almost certain that a “Blavatsky hypo-
170
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
thesis” of one kind or another would be advanced,
and when the first set of them were published in
England, the question was raised by critics in both
countries as to the possibility of Madame Blavatsky
having been instrumental in their production. The
problems presented were of two kinds: one was
concerned with the means of the delivery of the
Letters, and the other with an alleged affinity
between the literary styles of Madame Blavatsky
and the Mahatmas. In later editions of The Occult
World Mr. Sinnett dealt with the first point quite
frankly. His own letters to the Mahatmas were
handed to or sent to Madame Blavatsky to be
“forwarded” ; and since theirs to him were in many
cases received “while she was in the house with
me, it was not mechanically impossible that she
might have been the writer” (O.W., pp. 99, 100).
A glance at a few of Mr. Sinnett’s memoranda on
the Letters will confirm the above remark.
Letter vn. Enclosed in Mad. B’s from Bombay. Received
January 30th, 1881.
Letter vin. Received through Mad. B. About Febru­
ary 20th, 1881.
Letter ix. Received on return to India, July 8th, 1881,
while staying with Madame B. at Bombay.
Notes associating the Letters with Madame
Blavatsky become more rare as time goes on, but
internal references here and there indicate the
place and circumstances oftheir despatch and recep­
tion. In any case a large number came in the
ordinary way through the post.
171
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
H.P.B. as Forwarding Agent
There was no secret as to the agency of Madame
Blavatsky in transmitting, through ordinary postal
channels, the Letters and messages which were
said to reach her “phenomenally”. Here are a
few passages from The Blavatsky Letters bearing on
this point.
p. 4 Letter n from H.P.B. to A.P.S. is over-written
by a note ofthe same length from K.H.
p. 5 Letter iv begins: Ordered by my Boss to tell
Sinnett Esq., the following:—
p. 6 Letter v is over-written by K.H.
p. 21 Letter xn begins: There’s a love chit for you
just received . . . well there’s a letter from
Mahatma K.H. also,
p. 28 Letter xv begins: As K.H. just kindly flopped
on my nose a whole I lia d to your address you
will not care to read my letter,
p. 39 Letter xix ends: Boss gives you his love—I saw
him last night at the Lama’s house,
p. 69 Letter xxx has comments and a postscript
written by M.
p. 73 Letter xxxi begins: By order of my Boss I send
you the Kingsford Letters,
p. 77 Letter xxxn ends: At this very instant I receive
a letter for you. I enclose it.
We may judge from these notes that Mr. Sinnett’s
formula “not impossible” must apply not only to
those Letters received while she was in the house
with him, but to every communication of the above
kind of which she was known to be the transmitter.
172
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
It is important to notice that in Letters n and v
above the Mahatma’s over-writings bear no rela­
tion to H.P.B.’s letters which they cover. Hence
the suggestion is that her agency in the trans­
mission is involuntary; the Mahatma’s writing
would be described either as “osmosis” or “pre­
cipitation”. Letter xxx to Mr. Hume, “with a
facsimile precipitation of A.O.H.’s own writing”,
may be a similar case (p. 228).
“A Mere Absurdity” . . . “Perfectly Unlike”
Investigation at this date into the question of the
mechanical possibility or otherwise of Madame
Blavatsky having written the Letters can hardly
be fruitful of satisfactory results, so we turn to the
other side of the problem above mentioned, that is,
to the question of the resemblance of literary
styles. Says Mr. Sinnett: “For me, knowing her as
I did, the inherent evidences ofthe style were enough
to make the suggestion that she might have written
them a mere absurdity.” And again: “Koot Hoomi’s
Letters . . . are perfectly unlike her own style” (O.W.,
p. 100, 9th ed.).
We do not intend to leave the question of the
resemblance of styles resting in the balances of Mr.
Sinnett’sjudgment, but propose to allow the Letters
of Madame Blavatsky and the Mahatmas to speak
for themselves in a series of comparisons of words,
forms and ideas. The hypothesis we lay down
assumes that, of the two groups of Letters to be
scrutinized, Madame Blavatsky’s are genuine.
i73
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Her style is fixed and known, normal and un­
feigned; if there is feigning anywhere, it is in the
Mahatmas’ group. The components of the lady’s
writing are explicable from her personal history;
nothing is yet known as to her “Master” and her
“Boss”.
H.P.B.’s and the Mahatmas’ Languages
H. P. Blavatsky was a native of Russia, and a
member of the aristocratic class, whose second
language, as a matter of course, was French.
From her childhood she was also taught English;
she visited England in 1844, and again in later
years. As between her two acquired languages,
therefore, French was the first implanted, and
naturally enough was never eradicated from her
mind. It remained to the last an underlying
component of her literary style. Externally, she
was acquainted with English, but never obtained
the mastery of it; years of practice made her a
fluent, but not a faultless writer. Her travels
abroad and residence in America superposed on
her Russian, French and English linguistic pos­
sessions an American and cosmopolitan element
that was suited to her mind and mission.
Biographical details of the two Mahatmas’
careers are naturally less abundant and explicit than
those concerning Madame Blavatsky. Throughout
this book, and especially in Sections iv and v, we
have given their life-stories as far as we have been
able to trace them. With regard to their knowledge
174
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
of languages, we cannot be wrong in assuming
them to be most proficient in their native tongues,
and skilled in the acquirement of Sanskrit, Tibetan
and other Asiatic speech; but of these abilities
little or no evidence is given in the Letters; indeed,
a few scraps of Oriental writing are not without
faults. English is in substance their only speech,
much of which is based internally on French, with
large infusions of American and cosmopolitan
expressions. Of these facts we have given ample
proof in Section xi.
Mr. Sinnett’s judgment as to the dissimilarity of
the styles now being considered must be qualified
by another no less emphatic opinion which he gives
of the Mahatma K.H.’s style, compared with what
might reasonably be expected of him. “The more
my readers will be acquainted with India, the less
will they be willing to believe, except on the most
positive testimony, that the letters of Koot Hoomi,
as I now publish them, have been written by a
native of India” (O.W., p. 86, gth ed.). We have
no difficulty in confirming this observation, and
the same may be said of Mahatma Morya, whose
letters were not printed in The Occult World. The
characteristics of the three writers now to be judged
—Madame Blavatsky and her Masters—must be
admitted to be similar in one respect at least; that
is, they are all Western stylists, in so far as they
can be said to have any style at all.
175
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
The Two Texts
The places from which we take the examples for
comparison are the following:
1. Letters, diaries and notes written by H. P. Blavatsky
in America between 1875 and 1879, before sailing to
India; with other matter printed in T h e T heosophist,
1923-4-5.
2. Is is U nveiled, published in New York, 1877.
3. Letters of H. P. Blavatsky in the Appendix to T he
M a h a tm a L etters.
4. L etters o f H . P . B la va tsk y to A. P. Sinnett, 1880-8.
Extracts from the above matter, being Madame
Blavatsky’s undisputed compositions, will be set
down first; after which matter from The Mahatma
Letters will be compared with them, and similarities
and parallels noted. These comparisons will fall
into five classes (1) English words and expressions;
(2) English expressions based on French idiom;
(3) Miscellaneous parallels; (4) Minor Charac­
teristics ; (5) Biblical references.
Words and Key-words
We begin the examination of English words and
expressions by selecting, after the manner of a
primer, three words of one syllable; words which
may seem, in the estimation of some, to be “mean
and small”—as Bacon would say—but which will
prove, we think, to be discoverers of greater things.
These words are Try, But, and Though.
176
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
i. Try
In The Theosophist for April, 1923, Mr. Jinarajadasa
prints the eighth instalment of fragments entitled
The Early History of the T.S. Herein is a letter
from H.P.B. to Colonel Olcott, dated Philadelphia,
21st May, 1875, in which the following sentences
occur, exactly as here printed.
(1) I have been intrusted with an arduous and dan­
gerous task Harry to “try” and teach you, having
to rely solely on my poor, lame English.
The lesson certainly begins in lame English, but it
goes on into something like galloping Egyptian, if
it is not mere jargon, for another sentence reads as
follows:
(2) “ T ry ”, and from the red of E lem en tary R egion— o f
Cherubim, progress towards the O siris the highest
E th ereal One, the “Empyraeum”—Sphere of T era-
p h im .
After more matter in this style the writer con­
siderately observes: “That will do I guess for
lesson the 1st”, and proceeds to discuss more urgent
and mundane affairs.
Certain “teachings” from another hand and
another quarter, promised by H.P.B. in the fore­
going letter, duly arrived (via Philadelphia) but
we need only examine them here in respect of
the one word that concerns us—Try. Here are ten
examples of it; all but one are underlined.
(3) He who seeks us finds us. T ry. Rest thy mind.
177 M
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
(4) Don’t give up thy club. T ry.
(5) Try to win the Bostonian youth’s confidence.
(6) He did try to find you the books.
(7) what you in your unselfish, noble exertions try to
do for the cause.
(8) depart from hence in peace and try to utilize thy
time.
(9) Use your intuition, your innate powers; try you will
succeed.
(10) Lose not a day, try to settle her.
(11) T ry to dissipate in her gloom.
(12) T ry to have her settled by T uesday eve—and wait.
The writer of Nos. 1 and 2 of the above “trys”
is Madame Blavatsky. The alleged writer of the
remaining ten is “ S e r a p is ” , a Brother of the
“Luxor Lodge” in Egypt, who is supposed to have
sent his teachings to Madame Blavatsky by the
same means that the Mahatmas afterwards sent
theirs, that is, through “fourth dimensional space”.
We need not go out of our way at present to show
that these communications from the Nile to New
York constituted a small rehearsal of the larger
and later drama played between Tibet, India and
Europe. The only point to notice here is the first
historical occurrence—in the opening letter of
H.P.B. and the “Serapis” sequence—of the singu­
lar expression—“Try”.
We meet this key-word next in a letter of
H.P.B.’s, printed in The Theosophist for April,
1924, containing this sentence (p. 246): “Try and
find it out if you can.” It occurs again in the same
number (p. 248): “ Try and keep off the job till
178
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
then if you can.” A letter from H.P.B. (M.L.,
p. 475)—“Do, please do try and have intuition”—
echoes No. 9 above from S e ra p is . From The
Blavatsky Letters we take our last examples:
p. 10 I will write or try to write a more detailed and
sane letter.
p. 68 My Boss has said between two pipes—Try.
A Laconian indeed, in whom there is no waste
of words; yet has he not here spoken one word too
much?
Parallelsfrom the Mahatmas
We have just noticed the mannerism “try” occur­
ring seventeen times in the Blavatsky-Serapis corre­
spondence, and we now show it occurring ten times,
exactly as below, in K.H.’s Letters to Mr. Sinnett.
M .L ., p. 6
p. 20
p. 247
p. 286
P- 297
p. 341
p. 348
p. 348
p. 429
P- 452
T r y —and first work upon the material you
have.
But I say—T ry . Do not despair,
we have one word for all aspirants: T ry.
Yet—I may try—some day to get you one.
Try also, to well understand the situation,
let him—T ry.
at all events Try.
But still—T ry.
Try, for something may come out ofit.
You ought to go to Simla. T ry .
2. But
We now call attention to the peculiar uses of the
word “but” in the Blavatsky and Mahatma Letters.
i79
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
This word, used in the sense of “only”, “except”
and “merely”, was much used in nineteenth-century
literature, and we believe it is still so used more
often in America than in England. This may explain
its frequent employment by Madame Blavatsky.
The first three of the following instances belong to
her transatlantic era, and the remainder to the
Blavatsky Letters.
T he T heosophist, May 24th, p. 798. “John told me but
afterward”.
I s is U nveiled, pp. 589, 590: “but Salt Lakes” ; “vary but
in artificial modes”.
B la va tsk y L etters.
p. 9 I found but your letter to me.
p. 16 It reached Damodar but Sunday,
p. 19 O’Conor would have but sneered,
p. 29 I have ofcourse but to shut up.
A dozen examples of “but” from The Mahatma
Letters will show that the Oriental occultists were
certainly Occidental stylists in the use of this
adaptable little word.
p. 34 four bottles had but just been brought back
empty (Footnote by The “Disinherited”),
p. 61 materia prima of science exists but in their
imagination.
p. 75 will awake but when his fourth principle . . . is
matured.—M.
p. 131 to awake but at the hour ofthe lastjudgment,
p. 141 distinct but in their respective manifestations,
p. 180 act freely but on condition—
p. 211 such proofs as we generally give but to those—
180
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
p. 215 did not safely cross so many ages but to find
themselves wrecked,
p. 218 attracted but to p rim a ry fa c ts —M.
p. 220 an affair concerning but the Chohan.—M.
p. 250 calculated but to exonerate himself only,
p. 310 Our chelas are helped but when they are
innocent.
3. Though
In Section x ii, dealing with the Precipitation Process,
we mentioned the inexplicable remark of Mahatma
M .: “Cannot write English with a brush though”,
and we commented on the technical problems it
presented. Our interest in the sentence now is
grammatical, and we give a few examples of
Madame Blavatsky’s use of its last word. Her habit
was, like her Master’s, to put “though” at the end
of a sentence, without a preceding comma. Below
are some examples of this use from both hands.
(H. P. Blavatsky)
T he Theosophist, 4/24: One thing I can tell you though.
I s is U nveiled, p. 621 more than probable though.
B .L ., p. g He must have prigged your letter though,
p. 117 We see each other very little though,
p. 180 One thing funny though.
M .L ., p. 469 Instead ofaccepting the proposal though.
(The Mahatmas)
M .L ., p. 204 with the greatest discretion and caution
though.
p. 210 All I could obtain from Him, though—
181
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
M .L ., p. 259 Now that we are dead and dessicated
tho’,—
p. 268 The cause will never be ruined though—
p. 274 There are more than one such hint
though;—
p. 303 sever his connection with the Society
altogether, though;
p. 441 M. promised me though to refresh her
failing memory—
Our last instance is a peculiar one. In Letter
cxxxiv Madame Blavatsky writes to Mr. Sinnett
from Dehru Dun, and in her opening sentences
takes down an alleged dictation from Mahatma
Morya. M. begins: “I wrote to Sinnett my opinions
on the Allahabad theosophists.” H.P.B., the scribe,
interrupts the dictator with this prompt comment:
“ (Not through me though?)” (p. 461).
Here we close our search among the one-
syllabled key-words, and summarize its results.
T ry . . Blavatsky, 7; Serapis, 10; Koot Hoomi, 10.
B u t . Blavatsky, 7; Mahatamas, 12.
Though . Blavatsky, 7; Mahatmas, 8.
These are somewhat frequent and significant
similarities in writings which were said by Mr.
Sinnett to be “perfectly unlike” in style.
Two Grammatical Licences
We now cull from the two collections some examples
of ungrammatical usages frequently occurring.
The first is what is known as “the split infinitive”—
182
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
“to either answer it or not”, and the second consists
in the dropping of the auxiliary verb—“You better
try”.
The Split Infinitive
B .L ., p. 21
p. 30
P- 73
p. 98
p. no
p. 114
p. 116
P- i39
(H. P. Blavatsky)
to instinctively so to say,
comes to nearly feel sick.
I send you the Kingsford letters to fondly
read.
useless to either write—
to either follow the dictates—
never been allowed to even look—
to either use it or give it.
powerless to even prove—
From I s is U n veiled
p. 527 made to unwillingly confess—
p. 599 to safely find his way back—
M .L ., p. 17
p. 22
P- 39
p. 40
p- 47
p- 63
p. 67
P- 75
p. 202
p. 203
(The Mahatmas)
to precipitately change—
to first arrange our sentences—
you will fail to easily find help,
to completely subject to themselves—
to there assume animal form,
to better understand the difficulty,
begins to gradually die out.
he has to either proceed onward—
to totally exempt the far richer London
members.
to gradually prepare the way for others.
183
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
The Dropped Auxiliary Verb
B .L ., p. 18
P- 35
p. 67
P- 93
P- 1 5 1
P- i79
p. 191
P- J97
p. 2x7
(H. P. Blavatsky)
you better not pooh-pooh my advice.
I rather not convert them.
K.H. and M. thought I better apologize.
I better not say a word more,
you better profit by his presence.
I better be hung than mention it.
You better give up the . . . Memoirs,
you better write to him a kind letter.
I rather spend a pound or two—
you better stop before you kill me.
M .L ., p. 18
p. 26
p. 156
P- *59
p. 316
p. 420
p. 420
p. 438
(The Mahatmas)
you better not let him know you have
read this letter,
you better write to me—
I better give you a few more details—
and they better learn it.
and you better learn it at once,
I rather have the realfa c ts .
I rather not be regarded as a deliberate
artificer and a lia r—
you better try to make your friend and
colleague—
Franco-English Phrases
In undertaking to demonstrate the existence of a
French basis common to the Blavatsky and
Mahatma writings, we shall at first save the labour
of collecting one side of the parallels by recalling
184
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
the attention of our readers to Section xi, on The
Style and Construction of the Letters, where we showed
the Tibetan Masters to be much more proficient
writers of French than of English. Indeed, they
realize this themselves, for one of them (Morya)
using the motto: Ou touts ou rien, says he learnt it
from the other, whom he calls “my frenchified
K.H.”. The thirty or more examples of French
basis which we gave in the former Section will
serve for the Mahatmas’ column in the proposed
comparison, against which we shall now cite
examples from Madame Blavatsky. Having done
this, we shall add proof to proof by drawing up a
supplementary list of “frenchified” forms from the
Mahatma Letters. Thus the Theosophical founder
will be placed between two fires, the second of
which will be somewhat more deadly than the
first, because of its comprising not only similarities
of language, but exact parallels in Franco-English
phrase. As with the examples already given, we
set the English words, which we hold to have a
French basis, in italics, and place their French
equivalents in brackets.
185
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Franco-English Parallels
(H. P. Blavatsky)
T h e Theosophist, September ’24, p. 794. The progress of
Theosophy a t (a) Paris.
B .L ., p. 43
P- 5 1
P- 57
p. 98
p. 147
Olcott is a t (a) Ceylon; (p. 51) Why
did you invite malignant fools a t (a)
your conversatzione? (p. 190) When I
arrived to (a) Alexandria.
I do not care a (un) twopence.
Why we have m ade (fait) miracles.
I have never been allowed to see one single
(un seul) of those letters; M .L ., p. 470
. . . that they have never written one
sin gle (un seul) of the letters ever re­
ceived.
No one would dare, save in under breath
(a voix basse) to say a word against me.
I s is U nveiled (II, p. 382) . . . this m elom an (melomane)
of the desert.
B .L ., p. 174 . . . by the uninitiated world and every
profan e (tous les profanes)
186
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
Franco-English Parallels
M .L ., p. 9
p. 221
p. 444
p. 461
p. 294
p. 189
p. 4
(The Mahatmas)
the British Theosophical Society a t (a)
London (p. 350) the Theosophists a t
(a) Paris.
Whether Mr. Hume “cares a (un)
twopence.” p. 223 Mr. Hume will not
care one (un) twopence.
I cannot m ake (faire) a miracle,
never given up caste or one sin gle (un
seul) of their customs.
I hear you uttering under breath (voix
basse)
many other true artists and m elom ans
(melomanes)
were they given to the profan es (aux
profanes)
B .L ., p. 376 T h e profane (le profane) cannot become
a purified soul, for he lacks means, etc.
187
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
No reader of the above displayed passages will
doubt that the Mahatmas K.H. and M., from
whose pens those on the right side are supposed
to have flowed, were “frenchified” to an extra­
ordinary degree for persons born in the Asiatic
continent. If, however, as we are arguing in this
Section, the Mahatmas were not born in any other
continent than the imagination of Madame Blavat-
sky, the problem of their “frenchification” presents
no difficulty.
Blavatsky’s Second Language
By way of relaxation from the rigours of mere
comparison, let us recount four philological stories
which show Madame Blavatsky and her Master
using similar Franco-English terms instead of more
correct and suitable English ones.
i. Commentaries.—The first is an incident men­
tioned by Mr. Sinnett in The Occult World (p. 95).
On one occasion he had given Madame Blavatsky
a letter to be forwarded to Mahatma K.H. After a
little while it was handed back to him with these
words pencilled on the envelope: “Read and
returned with thanks, and a few commentaries.”
Mr. Sinnett adds that these words in K.H.’s usual
hand were “written unconsciously” by H.P.B., the
suggestion being that they were really a mediumistic
message from the Mahatma. If so, why did K.H.
make the hand of his Chela write the “frenchified”
word “commentaries” (from commentaires) instead of
“comments” or “remarks”, which are English?
188
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
For the same reason, we suppose, that he uses it
himself in Letter xxiv. “Pity you have not followed
your quotation with personal commentaries”
(p. 189).
2. Offered.—Our second story is from Isis Un­
veiled (Vol. II, p. 626). Madame Blavatsky, while
travelling in Tartary, noticed a small talisman on
the arm of her guide, a “Shaman”, or magician
of that country. In recording the event she makes
this curious remark: “Of what use is it to you was
the question we often offered to our guide.”
“Offered” a question? Why not “asked”, “put”
or “proposed” a question—all good English words
in one sense or another? The reason is evident;
the writer is translating mentally from the French
expression “offrir une question”, and rendering it
(incorrectly, as it seems) “to offer a question”.
A fact more remarkable, and more to our present
point, is that the Mahatmas themselves frequently
use “offer” in the same sense as their Chela. Here
are a few examples:
M .L ., p. 7 offering to me a few questions.
p. 8 the teacher anxious to disseminate his
knowledge, and the pupil offering him
to do so.
p. 150 a pertinent question, offered moreover in
a quite Christian spirit,
p. 256 he had never consented to give up his
notions, though offered more than once,
p. 299 Mr. Hume’s often expressed offer to
became a chela.
3. Meloman.—While we are wandering in strange
189
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
linguistic lands, it will be appropriate to take from
Isis (p. 382) another of Madame Blavatsky’s refer­
ences to her travels in Tartary. In recording her
encounter with a man of great musical talent, she
writes of him as “this meloman of the desert”.
If the story had been told in French, the word
“melomane” would have been used; in English
the only word from that root which our dictionary
and literature allow is “melomaniac”. This word
is avoided by the Chela, writing in 1877, and by
the Master, writing five years later; for when he
is expatiating to Mr. Sinnett on a musical theme,
he writes of the bliss of the “melomanic” and of
“the King of Bavaria and many other true artists
and melomans” (M.L., pp. 188-9).
4. Profane.—In Section xi we mentioned the
strange use made by the Mahatma K.H. of the
word “profanes” (p. 4), which is a French plural
noun, for which “the profane” has to do duty
in English. Madame Blavatsky makes the same mis­
take when she writes “by the uninitiated world
and every profane” (B.L., p. 174); thinking, no
doubt, that “profane” in English is singular, and
equivalent to “profane man” or “profane person”.
Again misled by French forms, the Mahatma
employs an English plural term as a singular, when
he writes: “The profane cannot become a purified
soul, for he lacks means, etc.” (A.P.S. notebook,
B.L., p. 376).
190
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
Sixteen Miscellaneous Parallels
The two following columns will be seen to
contain passages taken from the Blavatsky and
Mahatma letters showing astonishing correspon­
dence in respect of words, feelings, and ideas.
B .L ., p. 6
P- 7
p. n
p. 24
P- 3 1
P- 33
p. 38
p. 47
P- 79
p. 90
p. 116
(H. P. Blavatsky)
Even an Anglo-Indian can have the
true S . . . sp a rk in him which no amount
of brandy and soda and other stuff can
extinguish.
an editorial remark upon the fo o lish
para; p. 81 the last para, on p. 17.
It’s a skunk of a sewer like the C. an d M .
G a z e tte ’
, p. 50 even such a skunk as he is.
So let us drop it; p. 56 Let us drop it.
why should I be sacrificed, be offered in
a holocaust to the Lord God ofIsrael.
K.H. fo r b id me to send it to him; p. 163
He expresslyf o r b id spending such amount
of money.
the same eternal “gul-gul” sound of my
Boss’s inextinguishable chelum pipe,
a Grandison with 8 illegitimate children
calling him father.
M ea culpa; p. 236 I have to make mea
culpa before Katkoff; (M.L.), p. 460 say
mea culpa before all the Theosophists.
his voice said “you will write to him so
and so” ; p. 239 telling th u sly: “say to
Isabel Cooper Oakley so and so”.
(at the end of a letter) Well I believe
I have written a volume.
191
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
B .L ., p. 130 he who evoluted the whole story; p. 238
must thank her stars for evoluting
spiritual and beautiful characters,
p. 147 to all the ding and clash around me.
T h ., p. 248 Your scientists . . . generally howled out
“Eureka”.
I s is U n veiled (p. 617) Simon Stylite.
Theosophist E.H.T.S. Letter ix. H.P.B. describes an
article of hers in an American paper as “ S h ot N o . 1
a t the enem y” .
(The Mahatmas)
M .L ., p. 37 It may very likely be osm osed into your
head . . . if sherry bars not the way, as
it has already done at Allahabad; p. 207
The brandy atmosphere in the house is
dreadful.
p. 364 We surround ourselves with hundreds of
paras, upon this particular topic,
p. 37 . . . is, I am sorry to say, a true skunk
m ephitis.
p. 228 Let us drop it; M., p. 368 Let us drop the
subject; p. 428 Let us drop it for a while,
p. 4 the Church sought to sacrifice Galileo as
a holocaust to the Bible; p. 371, plotting
and scheming to make us all into a
holocaust.
p. 237 I warned whom I had to warn, and
forbid strictly my own business being
mixed up with it. p. 438 The Chohan
fo r b id it;
p.431 M. writes: I swear I was at Ch-in-ki
(Lhassa). Smoking your pipe.
192
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
M .L ., p. 261
p. 302
p. 289
P. 178
P- 45
P- 5 °
p. 167
p. 186
P- 5 °
he would have onlyscorn for a Chester­
field and a Grandison; p. 363 an Indo-
Tibetan ascetic playing at Sir C.
Grandison; p. 39 the hapless parent of
about half-a-dozen ofillegitimate brats.
Mea culpa! I exclaim.
“you will write so and so . . . and no
more.”
(at the end ofa letter) And now you had
a volume.
Man first evolutes from this m a tte r; p. 86
each evoluted race in the downward
arc; p. 90 but the whole host already
evoluted; p. 92 the evoluted secondary
igneous agencies; p. 93 Then the whole
universe must be re-evoluted de novo.
the first hum and ding dong of adverse
criticism.
your physicists shout “Eureka!”
a kind of Indo-Tibetan Simon Stylites.
K.H. describes T h e O ccult W o rld as “that
fir s t serious sh ot at the enemy”.
A F e w C o m m en ts
Although most of the above parallels are too
obvious to need remark, we propose to make
comments on a few of them.
B r a n d y (B . L ., p. 6; M . L . , p. 37).—A point which
frequently arose in the Letters was the fact
that Mr. Sinnett was a wine-drinker and a flesh-
eater, and therefore debarred from winning the
highest prizes of chelaship and initiation. It
193 N
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
will be seen that H.P.B., the friend, and K.H.,
the Master, make similarly facetious refer­
ences to this personal matter.
Evolute (B.L., p. 130; M.L., p. 45).—The word
“evolute” has had an interesting and peculiar
employment in the Theosophical movement.
In scientific literature it occurs in Newton’s
Principia, where it is a term in Geometry, and
grammatically both a substantive and an
adjective, e.g. “an evolute”, “an evolute
curve”. At a later date the substantive term
“evolution” and its associated verb “to evolve”
became household words in Science. It is
significant that the first misappropriation of
the geometrical substantive “evolute”, by its
conversion into the barbaric verb “to evolute”,
occurred in Colonel Olcott’s Buddhist Catechism
in this sentence: “When he has evoluted to
the stage of true individual enlightenment”
('Occult World, p. 82). It will be seen in the
parallels that the Colonel’s co-founder fre­
quently employed the word in the same novel
sense, and that the Mahatmas themselves, in
following these examples, were better pupils
of the founders than they were of Newton,
Darwin, Spencer and Huxley and all the
English scientists and grammarians. This, of
course, was to be expected, but it is worth
noting that Olcott’s and the Mahatmas’
“evolute” is now obsolete in Theosophy; it is
everywhere corrected to “evolve” in the Letters
as rendered in The Early Teachings of the Masters.
i94
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
Grandison (B.L., p. 47; M.L., p. 261).—We have
already noted in Section xi that Mahatma K.H.
was familiar with the English novelist Richard­
son, whose Sir Charles Grandison is a well-known
work. It is a curious fact that both Madame
Blavatsky and her Masters have a rather keen
scent for unsavoury suggestions whenever they
find themselves in personal conflict with
Theosophical colleagues or outside enemies.
It will be seen, however, that although K.H.
makes two references to Sir Charles Grandison,
he only debits a departed Theosophist with
“about” six illegitimate children, instead of
Madame Blavatsky’s definite imputation of
eight.
“Simon” Stylites {Isis, p. 61, and M.L., p. 186).—
Simeon Stylites was a fifth-century Christian
who for the good of his soul and the edification
of heathen neighbours spent half a lifetime on
the top of a column. Tennyson has written a
fine poem about him, but it is remarkable
that although the fame of this ascetic has
girdled the globe, neither Madame Blavatsky,
writing in New York, nor K.H. in Tibet, has
quite hit the proper spelling of his name.
Some Minor Characteristics
Having in this Section disposed of Mr. Sinnett’s
case for the entire unlikeness of the Blavatsky and
Mahatma literary styles, we are enabled to supple­
ment our argument on this point by the evidence
195
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
of Mr. Jinarajadasa, Vice-President of the Theo-
sophical Society and trusted archivist of the Adyar
Headquarters, as to some of the minor character-
teristics of H.P.B.’s style. This evidence is all the
more valuable from the fact of its being uncon­
sciously tendered, for it is unlikely that the writer
would have purposely risked a damaging com­
parison between the Founder’s and the Mahatmas’
styles.
In the disclosures constituting “The Early History
of the T.S.”, printed in The Theosophist (June ’24,
p. 385), this official, so far as we can judge, deals
more faithfully than any other editor with the
documents he publishes; he affirms that he prints
the Blavatsky literary remains without correcting
their numerous errors. “H.P.B.’s MSS. (he writes)
are not easy to edit, as her punctuation is some­
times erratic . . . she writes ‘George Miller of
Bristol’ for George Muller . . . Theosophy and
Theosophists are in most cases written by her as
‘theosophy’ and ‘theosophists’.” In another place
he mentions her “constant underlinings”.
We had already observed the above-mentioned
characteristics in the scattered documents coming
from the H.P.B. hand, and many of them are still
to be found in The Blavatsky Letters, in spite of Mr.
Barker’s admission that he has “permitted himself
to correct obvious errors of spelling and punctua­
tion, as these were too numerous to ignore”
(Preface, p. 5). It will be seen that in thus clearing
the path for the general reader, the compiler has
obstructed the course of the critic. Nevertheless
196
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
the nine untouched Blavatsky Letters in the
Mahatma collection suffice to confirm the Vice-
President’s observations. Their twenty-six pages
contain 158 literal errors and 240 faults in punctua­
tion, while the underlinings reach the tragical
total of 230.
Comparing the above Letters with a few of the
Mahatmas’, we may mention as notable instances
of bad punctuation Mahatma Letter vm, of
11 pages, which we should have to correct in
57 places; Letter xm, 8 pages, 50 places; Letter xxx,
x i| pages, 80 places. In respect of underlinings, this
Letter takes the palm for emphasis with 120 places.
Liberties with Proper Names
Returning to Mr. Jinarajadasa’s particulars, let us
give the reason, unnoticed by him, for H.P.B.’s
frequent neglect of capital letters in writing the
words “theosophy” and “theosophists”. She was
translating mentally from the French terms la
theosophie and les theosophes, in which capitals are
not required (see Littre). But why should both
the Mahatmas do the same, as they do in “theosoph.
schools”, “the theosoph. ark” (p. 39), “those
Prayag theosophists” (p. 248) and in about thirty
other places?
While we thank our official witness for giving
us the instance of “George Miller of Bristol”, we
think he will be surprised at the list we give of
mis-spellings of the names of well-known people in
the Blavatsky and Mahatma Letters.
i97
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
B .L ., p. 68
p. 107
p. 129
p. 211
M .L ., p. 469
(H . P . B la va tsk y)
“Carlisle” for Carlyle.
“Oscar Wild” for Oscar Wilde.
“Leadbeter” for Leadbeater.
“Quaridge” for Quaritch.
“Mascul: and Cook” for Maskelyne and
Cooke.
( T he M a h a tm a s)
M .L ., p. 27 “Dupotet” for Du Potet.
“Schoppenhauer” for Schopenhauer.
“Beacher” for Beecher.
“Allan Kardec” for Alan Kardec.
“Nordenskiol” for Nordenskiold.
pp. 247-307 “Carter Block” for Carter Blake,
p. 271 “Wild” for Dr. Wyld.
p. 344 “Beale” for Dr. Beal,
p. 431 “Sutheran” for Sothern.
p. 27
p. 66
P- 133
p. 148
P- 154
Indian names fare if possible rather worse than
European and American; we shall be content with
giving one notable instance of sheer anarchy in
spelling. It is the name of Gjual-Khool, K.H.’s
pretended Chela, so spelt in his own signature to
Letter cxxv. Madame Blavatsky mentions the
name twenty-three times, and writes it eight
different ways; the Mahatmas reach the same
total.
(II. P . B la va tsk y)
Djual Khool. . 3 times
Djwal Khool . .once
Dj. Khool . .twice
D. Khool . .3 times
198
( T he M a h a tm a s)
Djual Khool
Djual Kul
D.J. K.
Djwal K.
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
(H . P . B la va tsk y) ( T h e M a h a tm a s)
D. K. . .
D. Kh. . .
Gjual Khool .
J. Kool .
. once
. once
. twice
. 8 times D. K.
D. Kh.
Gjual Khool
Juala Khool
Not once is the name spelt in the manner adopted
for this Chela by Mr. Leadbeater—“Djwal Kul”.
Doubtless the reason for the difference is the com­
paratively late settlement by learned men of the
principles of Oriental transliteration. Still, we fail
to see why the Mahatmas, if not their senior pupil,
should have been groping for years for a formula
with which to name their familiar friend, who
seems to have suffered in this respect more variety
than “the secret book of Kin-te”.
We have elsewhere shown that the attitude of the
Mahatmas towards religion in general and Chris­
tianity in particular was definitely hostile. This
antipathy was extended in a marked manner
towards the scriptures of which the Christian
Church is the custodian. In Section xi, where
we were treating of the literary references in the
Mahatma Letters, we postponed the examination of
Biblical matter, because it seemed more appro­
priate that it should find a place in the argument
on “the Blavatsky Hypothesis”, and undergo
comparison with Madame Blavatsky’s own biblia.
All scriptures are liable to be quoted without
identifying the persons who quote them; but if
Biblical References
i99
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
they are misquoted the case is different. Two
correct similarities may come from two minds, but
two incorrect ones point rather to one mind. We
say this because we are about to give instances
from H.P.B. and the Mahatmas, in which all but
two out of twenty-four citations are incorrect,
while several of these are identical on both sides of
the parallel.
Blavatsky and the Bible
B .L ., p. 8
p. 24
P- 33
p. 124
p. 147
All this is vexation of spirit and vanity
and nothing else.
(Ecclesiastes i. 14: “ B ehold, a ll is van ity
a n d vexation o f s p irit.” )
. . . to throw their personalities to the
dogs to rent them.
(Matthew vii. 6: “ G ive n ot th a t w hich is
holy unto the dogs, neither cast y e y o u r
p ea rls before sw in e, lest they tram ple them
under th eir fe e t, a n d turn again a n d rend
y o u .” )
The God of Israel who loved his son so
well that he sent him to be crucified.
(John iii. 16: “ F or G od so loved the w o rld
th at he gave h is only begotten Son-----”)
One or other of the London Potiphars.
(Potiphar’s w ives, surely.)
A woman who wrote such a letter must
be a Potiphar.
(Again, a Potiphar’s w ife.)
. . . like Jehovah and Eve before they
were split into two by sin.
{A dam and Eve, surely.)
200
p. 198
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
B.L., p. 260 See even Bible, first chapter, verses 26
and 27.
(
1
Genesis, first chapter.)
From The Theosophist, 1924.
April They that be whole need not the physi­
cian but they that be sick.
(Matthew ix. 12: “ They that be whole need
not aphysician, but they that aresick.”)
Th., p. 248 Your scientists . . . generally howled
out “Eureka” when they ought to re­
member that even the Alpha did not
hold quite secure in their empty heads.
(Alpha and Eureka? Surely not.)
The Mahatmas and the Bible
B.L., p. 7 Spirit is strong but flesh is weak.
(Matthew xxvi. 41: “The spirit indeed is
willing, but thefleshis weak.”)
M.L., p. 28
p. 38
P- 336
P- 53
p. 142
“Thus far shalt thou go and no farther.”
“Hitherto shalt thou go and no further.”
“So far shall we go and no further.”
(Job xxxviii. 11: “Hitherto shalt thou
com
e but nofurther.”)
“God who hath made the eye shall he
not see?”
(Psalm xciv. 9: “He that formed the eye,
shall he not see?”)
“The ways of the Lord are inscrutable.”
(Romans xi. 33: “How unsearchable are
his judgments, and his ways past finding
out.”)
201
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
M .L ., p. 74 Your “Lord God,” says Bible, Chapter I
verse 24 and 26.
(G enesis i. 25-26: “ A n d G od m ade—A nd,
G od s a w — A n d G od sa id .” )
p. 268 “They that be whole need not the
physician but they that be sick.”
p. 317 To be all to everyone and all things.
(1 Cor. ix. 22: “ I am made a ll things to a ll
m e n ” )
From T he E a rly Teachings o f the M asters.
p. 273 Eureka! We have gotten a revelation of
the Lord,
p. 268 . . . to feed pigs with pearls.
From L u xor L etters in (1875).
Brother Flenry must have the wisdom of
the Serpent and the gentleness of a
lamb.—S e r a p i s .
(Matt. x. 16: “ B e y e therefore w ise as
serpents an d harm less as doves.” )
Mockery and Parody
We are bound to say that very few of the quota­
tions given above are employed in the sense in
which they were written. Madame Blavatsky indi­
cates her scorn for the writers and readers of the
works she misquotes by calling them “your own
bungled up Scriptures” (p. 74). And as if this
alleged fault did not suffice, she distorts them the
more (as our parallels show) with ignorant or
calculated carelessness. “Your ‘Lord God’ says
Bible, Chapter x, verse 25 and 26” and “The
Lord God of Israel, who loved his son so well” are
202
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
instances of this. In the first, she makes an omnis­
cient Mahatma, posing as a Higher Critic, prove
he is not one, when he puts a “Jehovist” term into
a text in which it does not occur. In the second,
with the same perverted enthusiasm and in the
same phrase, she puts the incongruous term into a
parody of the Fourth Gospel. It is also a curious
fact that with all the religious literature of the
world under her observation, this advocate of
“Universal Brotherhood” and student of “com­
parative religion” selects none but the Christian
scriptures in their English text as the target for
her wit. As a specimen of this sort of satire let us
quote Mahatma Koot Hoomi’s grotesque vision of
the spirit who in the Apocalypse of John is seen
upon the Great White Throne:
“. . . The kind merciful Father and Creator of
all who lolls from the eternity, reclining with his
backbone supported on a bed of incandescent
meteors, and picks his teeth with a lightning fork”
(P- 3*9)-
Consummation est
We give places of honour apart from the tainted
associations of the above columns to the only
quotations we have met with in the whole of the
Blavatsky-Mahatma correspondence in which the
words of the Christian scriptures are correctly
rendered. Like Balaam the magician, whose will
was to curse but whose destiny was to bless, the
Mahatma rightly renders from the English Bible St.
203
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Paul’s verse: “Know ye not that ye are the temple
of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in
you?” (i Cor. iii. 16).
Our last example shows Madame Blavatsky and
her Master, as if fatally led to the most revealing of
agreements, quoting identically and correctly, in
five places, two solemn words from the Latin
Vulgate:
Blavatsky (B .L ., pp. 22, 64, 100, 102)
Consum m ation est.
The Mahatma (M .L ., p. 292)
Consum m atum est.
“ Thy Speech Bewrayeth Thee”
If any words were needed by way of comment on
the literal analysis and demonstration just made,
or as a retort to the ignorance, perversion and bad
taste exhibited in the writings, none could be found
more apt than those addressed by the Syrian maid
to the Apostle Peter while he warmed his hands by
the fire in the governor’s courtyard: Thy speech
bewrayeth thee. In the Gospel drama the denier’s
tongue belied the truth of his own words; here,
in the Theosophical evangel, the deceiver’s pen
unwittingly discovers her deceit. Writings said to
have come from wise men in the East, and pro­
fessing to reveal occult philosophy, disclose without
intention the nativity, the acquired languages and
the literary culture of their unacknowledged author.
While pretending to lay open the secrets of the
204
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
macrocosm, they are everywhere interleaved with
the biography of Madame Blavatsky, penetrated
with her desires and aversions, her tastes, habits
and ideas, and reminiscent of her abodes, travels
and personal associations. Whatever may have
been H.P.B.’s skill in her professed fictional and
philosophical writings, her inventive talent deserted
her in composing the Mahatma Letters, from which,
despite all her endeavours, she was not able to
exclude herself.
The Masculine Disguise
Helena Blavatsky’s equestrian practice, acquired
in youth and pursued in her early Asiatic travels,
accustomed her to the assumption of a male habit
in dress, and it was no less evident, from the vigour
of her literary style, that she as readily played the
male role with her pen, whenever the necessities of
anonymity or pure deception required it. The
persistent maintenance in being of her imaginative
masculine creations, in long correspondence with
credulous men associates, was no small achieve­
ment; of this there is proof in the many charac­
teristic passages we have quoted from the letters
of the supposed Mahatmas. In addition to the
positive pose of the masculine disguise, the negative
device of anti-feminism was frequently employed,
and of this we give the following examples.
205
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
The Mahatmas’ Anti-Feminism
M .L ., p. 36
P- 50
P- 251
p. 302
p. 421
p. 428
P- 4 7 9
W om en do lack the power of con­
centration.
A r t M a g ic and I s is emanating from
women . . . could never hope for a
serious hearing.
(M. to Sinnett in reference to K.H.)
He knows nothing of the creatures—
you do.
Generally I never trust a woman any
more than I would trust an echo.
Verily woman—is a dreadful calamity
in this fifth race!
K.H., after referring to visits to “all the
sybils and sirens of the Theosophical
establishment”, adds: “My own prefer­
ences make me keep to the safer side of
the two sexes in my occult dealings with
them.”
K.H. (quoted by H.P.B.) “Well, if you
have not learned much of the Sacred
Sciences and practical Occultism—and
who could expect a w om an to”—etc.
Readers of Madame Blavatsky’s private corre­
spondence will not need to be told that in writing
the above passages she was not in any exceptional
manner depreciating her own sex. She was habitu­
ally as unsparing in her invectives against intel­
lectual and moral frailty in women as against
enmity and materialism in men; it could have
cost her no pains, therefore, to write the passages
quoted.
206
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
The masculine disguise received more support
when the Mahatmas’ criticisms were directed
against H.P.B. herself, as in the following addi­
tional passages. For these self-revelations, which
would be almost too damaging if made as her
personal confessions, have some value as apologies
by others for her known shortcomings, and are
obviously of no small service to the main Mahatmic
design, as suggesting penetrating insight into human
character and impartiality of mind.
The Mahatmas Anti-Blavatsky
M .L ., p. 105
p. 129
p. 182
P- 2 39
p. 272
Another fine example of the habitual
disorder in which Mrs. H.P.B.’s mental
furniture is kept. . . . As in her writing-
rooms confusion is ten times confounded,
so in her mind are crowded ideas piled
in such a chaos that when she wants to
express them the tail peeps out before the
head.
She is a fanatic in her way, and is unable
to write with anything like system and
calmness.
The difficulty created by her ambiguous
style and ignorance ofEnglish.
H.P.B. with her ridiculously impaired
memory.
The Old Woman is accused of un­
truthfulness, inaccuracy in her statements.
“Ask no questions and you will receive
no lies.” She is fo rb id d en to say what she
knows. . . . Nay—she is ordered in cases
o f need to m islead people (M.).
207
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
M .L ., p. 310 All that now happens is brought on by
H.P.S. herself; and to you, my good
friend and brother, I will reveal her
shortcomings,
p. 312 Yes; in that, and in that alone, she
became constantly guilty of deceiving her
friends. . . . Her impulsive nature . . .
is always ready to carry her beyond the
boundaries of truth, into the regions of
exaggeration.
p.318 It isimpossible, and dangerous, to entrust
with such a subject, which requires the
most delicate handling—either one or the
other of our Editors (H.P.B. and H.S.O.).
Anti-Anna Kingsford
We have already mentioned the antipathy shown
by one of the Mahatmas against Dr. Anna Kings­
ford, the Hermetic seeress, ostensibly proceeding
from doctrinal differences, but too plainly spring­
ing, as we now show, from the personal animus of
Madame Blavatsky. The Parallels from the Letters,
given below, are eloquent upon the point; the
almost literal correspondence between sentences in
M.L., p. 428, and B.L., p. 64, will not escape
notice.
( T h e M ah a tm a )
M .L ., p. 46 Another w o m a n —all over again.
p. 329 The highly estimable authoress . . . is
not exempt from a considerable dose of
vanity and despotism.
208
The Blavatsky Hypothesis
M .L ., p. 403 Fascinating Mrs. Kingsford—She is very
young, and her personal vanity and
other womanly shortcomings are to be
laid at the door of Mr. Maitland and
the Greek chorus of her admirers,
p. 428 It is too bad, really, that this “ladie
fair” should have been put to the fruit­
less ramble through space to find in­
significant me. . . . She is too haughty
and imperious, too self-complacent for
me; besides which she is too young and
“fascinating” for a poor mortal like
myself.
(II. P . B la va tsk y)
B .L ., pp. 44, 65, 71 The “Divine Anna”.
p. 51 ridicule of A.K.’s dress at Mr. Sinnett’s
Conversazione,
p. 66 the zebra-clad Kingsford.
p. 64 a haughty, imperious, vain and self-
opinionated creature, a bag of western
conceit.
p. 65 An unbearable female snob,
p. 66 But the Anna was a snake, a horned
aspic amongst roses,
p. 159 It is evident there’s some new treachery
emanating from the fair Anna,
p. 212 The hypocritical she-devil,
p. 240 Now the Kingsford is mixed up in it.
This collection of phrases will suffice, we think,
to strip from the imposture we are handling its
masculine disguise. In order to throw dust in the
eyes of the very manly Mr. Sinnett and possible
209 o
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
later readers of the Letters, H.P.B. had to import
into them a spirit of anti-feminism generally, and
to aim it specifically against herself. What bravery!
But did not Madame Blavatsky weaken this artifice
when she employed her Mahatma to aid her attack
on a rival woman?
210
S E C T I O N X V I
THE FORBIDDEN LAND
Was Madame Blavatsky Ever in Tibet?
T h e o s o p h ic a l tradition says that Madame Blavat-
sky passed seven years of her wandering life in a
Himalayan retreat, studying Occult Philosophy
with the Mahatmas. Belief in this story supplies
much that is lacking in credibility in many other
episodes of H.P.B.’s career; therefore it will sur­
prise some readers to learn how slight is the founda­
tion for the tradition, even in the testimony of its
most important witness. Apart from a reference by
Madame Blavatsky in Isis Unveiled to her Tibetan
experiences, all the records we have are second­
hand; they exist in two small books compiled at
different dates by Mr. Sinnett and Mrs. Besant,
entitled respectively Incidents in the Life of H. P.
Blavatsky and H.P.B. and the Masters of the Wisdom.
The matter for inclusion in these books could only
have been provided by the subject of them, whose
doubts and fears as to her life story being thus laid
open are tragically expressed in many places in
The Blavatsky Letters. But because both books were
virtually called for as replies to public criticism,
she had no option but to allow them to appear.
The most remarkable fact about the two books is
that on the subject of H.P.B.’s visits to Tibet they
do not tell the same story.
2 1 1
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Mr. Sinnett’s Version
The British public was first definitely informed
of Madame Blavatsky’s connection with Tibet in
1881, when Mr. Sinnett mentioned the “seven
years” story in The Occult World. Even then it
encountered a good deal of unbelief, which Mr.
Sinnett boldly faced in the Appendices to his later
editions. In the fourth edition he wrote: “She is
either speaking falsely when she tells us that she
so lived among them, or the Adepts who taught
her are living men” (p. 178). In spite of the objec­
tionable nature of the dilemma in which sceptical
readers were placed by this passage, they persisted
in asking rather probing questions about the
Tibetan sojourn. “What particular years were thus
occupied?” they seemed to ask, and the biographical
booklets represent two attempts to give an answer.
The First Entry: 1856
Incidents says that H.P.B. was at Bombay in 1852,
and thence tried and failed to enter Tibet from
the South by way of Nepal. She was in Kashmir
in 1856, whence she entered Tibet from the West
with travelling companions, as recounted in Isis.
She had not been long within the country, however,
when she was obliged to return, being officially
convoyed back to the frontier, whence shejourneyed
southwards, and left India in 1858. It will be seen
that two years at the most were passed in this
adventure, and not much of the time could have
212
The Forbidden Land
been spent in studious retreat within the confines of
Tibet, for the pre-occupations of travel were very-
pressing, and there is no evidence that the party
ever broke up or left the leadership of their Tartar
guide.
The years 1867 to 1870, says Mr. Sinnett, “were
passed in the East”, though in what part of that
vast region he does not say. Even if passed in Tibet,
they could only account for three out of the seven
traditional years. H.P.B. was at home in Russia in
1872, and went to America in 1873.
Mrs. Besant's Version
Mrs. Besant’s H.P.B. gives more details of the
Tibetan journeys, but makes no attempt to produce
a harmony with Mr. Sinnett’s Incidents. In 1848,
immediately after her marriage, H.P.B. “made
her first attempt to enter Tibet, but failed”.* Her
“second ineffectual attempt” was in 1853, and her
“third unsuccessful attempt” in 1855. She “pene­
trated to Tibet about 1864”—eight years later, it
should be noted, than the Isis-Incidents entry. About
1867 she was in Northern India; thence she went
“to the Kumlun Mountains and Lake Palti” in
Tibet. The first letter from K.H., “probably from
Tibet”, was received at Odessa November 11,
1870. The wanderer was doubtless on her way
* At this date H.P.B. would have been seventeen years of age,
and according to the Memoirs of Count Witte, her cousin, the gates
of Asia were closed to her no farther East than Tiflis, whence she
passed into Europe.
213
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
home at the time, as the letter intimated, for she
arrived, as said by Mr. Sinnett, in 1872.
Mrs. Besant’s H.P.B. was a later publication
than The Occult World and Incidents, and may be
regarded as in some respects a correction of them.
Its failure to confirm the “seven years” story of the
first book is therefore very significant. As to the
second, H.P.B. omits the 1852 attempt from Nepal
and the Isis-Incidents entry from Kashmir of 1856.
Nevertheless it gives three attempts (1848, 1853,
1855) and one entry (1864) that Mr. Sinnett omits,
and supplies a few Tibetan locations for the years
1867-70 “passed in the East”.
Supplementary Particulars
A book recently published, entitled Madame
Blavatsky, by Mr. Baseden Butt, gives a few addi­
tional particulars of H.P.B.’s connections with
Tibet. It appears that Colonel Olcott, when
travelling in India, chanced to encounter Major-
General Murray, who in 1854 had been a Captain
and a military commandant on the Nepal frontier.
He told Colonel Olcott that he had in 1854 pre­
vented Madame Blavatsky passing over into Tibet,
and had kept her in his house in his wife’s company
for a month. The reader will notice that neither
Incidents nor H.P.B. gives an attempt by way of
Nepal in 1854. The first gives 1852, and the second,
without naming the places, gives 1848, 1853 and
I^55-
The 1856 entry is confirmed by Mr. Butt, who
214
The Forbidden Land
says the travellers penetrated a considerable dis­
tance into the inaccessible country, but he does
not say what route was taken. Madame Blavatsky’s
guide was a Tartar Shaman, by whom, as described
in Isis (Vol. ii. Chapter xn), several occult marvels
were performed.
Do the Letters Confirm the Story?
It is needless to say that the Tibetan tradition
receives by suggestion no little support in the
Mahatma Letters, though when the particulars of
it are examined, they are found to be but feeble
variants of the legend. H.P.B. was described by the
Mahatma in 1880 as “our visible agent . . . and
her phenomena have for about half a century*
astounded and baffled some of the cleverest minds
of the age” (p. 10). It was implied in calling her
“an initiated chela” that she had been on proba­
tion in Tibet; indeed, her occult training in that
country had been so intense as to detach from her
personality one of her “seven principles” and keep
it behind in Tibet. “No man or woman . . . can
leave the precincts of Bod-Las (Tibet) and return
back into the world in his integral whole. . . .
One, at least of his seven satellites has to remain
behind. . . . She is no exception to the rule”
(p. 203).
The above information was “a glimpse behind
the veil” given to Messrs. Sinnett and Hume to
* Born July 31, 1831, H.P.B. had not at this date passed her
fiftieth year.
215
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
explain and excuse an exceptionally violent out­
burst of ill-temper on the part of Madame Blavat-
sky. She was said to be virtually “a psychological
cripple”, and not altogether responsible for her
actions. It also conveyed the subtle suggestion
that Tibet (where her “one principle” dwelt and
pined) was her spiritual home, to which she would
some day return. This was made plain in another
Letter, where the Mahatma says: “When the hour
comes she will be taken back to Tibet” (p. 256).
An ingenious suggestion was once made to con­
vince Mr. Sinnett that H.P.B. was acquainted
with the topography of Tibet: “You are curious
to know where I am travelling about,” writes the
Mahatma. “I now come from Sakkya-Jung. To you
the name will remain meaningless. Repeat it before
the ‘Old Lady’ and—observe the result” (p. 284).
We can imagine the interesting colloquy that would
follow the casual mention of “Sakkya-Jung” by Mr.
Sinnett, and can observe the result of it in his mind
at least. He would think that if H.P.B. had secret
knowledge of one place in Tibet that was not on
the map, she must know of many others. We dare
not speculate on what she thought of him, when
“Sakkya-Jung” came like a homing pigeon to
her ears.
We learn from The Blavatsky Letters that in 1882
H.P.B. made a brief recuperative flight via Dar­
jeeling to the home of the Mahatmas, and stayed
some weeks at “the old place”, said to be “twenty-
three miles beyond the Sikkim border”. A reference
to this visit is made in The Mahatma Letters. Says
216
The Forbidden Land
K .H .: “She is better and we have left her near
Darjeeling. She is not safe in Sikkim . . . and unless
we devote the whole of our time to watching her,
the ‘Old Lady’ will come to grief since she is now
unable to take care of herself” (p. 446).
Madame Blavatsky never went back to “Bod Las”
to recover her prodigal seventh “principle”. When
the time came for her to leave the East, she took
her integral self to Europe, settled there, finished
her work, and died among real people and good
friends in a better home.
“Go Not Forth"
Readers of the Gospels will remember that the
disciples of Christ were warned that after his
departure certain “false Christs” would probably
appear in one place or another, and they were
advised not to go and hear them. Discouragement
no less emphatic was put in the way of the disciples
of the Mahatmas whenever the more ardent among
them showed an inclination to seek conference with
their Masters face to face in Tibet. When Mr. Sinnett
was denied the visible presence of Koot Hoomi in
India, and conceived the idea of meeting him on
the frontier of Tibet, the Mahatma replied: “Your
‘wild scheme’ with Darjeeling, good friend, as its
subjective point, is not wild, but simply imprac­
ticable. The time is not yet come . . . for your
sake I would if I could, precipitate that interview”
(p. 201).
When Mr. Hume, probably hoping and believing
217
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
less than Mr. Sinnett, made through him a proposal
to visit Tibet, the Mahatma’s reply was not only
emphatically negative, but contemptuous. “You
better try to make your friend and colleague Mr.
Hume give up his insane idea of going to Tibet.
Does he really think that unless we allow it, he, or
an army of Pelings will be enabled to hunt us out,
or bring back news, that we are, after all, but a
‘moonshine’ as she calls it. . . . His carrying out
the plan will be the signal for an absolute separa­
tion between your world and ours. His idea of
applying to the Govt, for permission to go to Tibet
is ridiculous” (M.L., p. 438).
A Fatal Letter
If we had not proved beyond question that the
Mahatma Letters were written by Madame Blavat-
sky, the document from which we have just quoted
would decide the point as regards itself, if not as
regards the rest. It is Letter C in the Mahatma
collection, and it appears also on page 4 of The
Blavatsky Letters. The reason for the duplication
is that it is written over the face of one of H.P.B.’s,
with which it has no relation. The motive for this
device could not have been economy (as was the
case with Pope, who wrote quantities of his Iliad
on the backs of old private letters), it must have
been an endeavour to rivet in Mr. Sinnett’s mind
the belief in “precipitation”—“when we write
inside your closed letters and uncut pages of books
and pamphlets in transit” (p. 267). This conviction,
218
MADAME H. P. BLAVATSKY AND COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT
The Forbidden Land
as we have seen, was actually admitted by Mr.
Sinnett.
The particular evidences that Mahatma Letter C
is a Blavatsky composition are the following nine
characteristics, all of which have been shown to
occur in her acknowledged writings: (i) The Letter
is only nineteen lines long, but eleven words in it are
underlined. (2) Commas are omitted in three places,
and redundant in two. (3) There is one dropped
auxiliary verb—“you better try”. (4) There are
three wrong tenses—“will be” for would be (twice)
and “forbid” for forbade. (5) “but a moonshine”
for “all moonshine”. (6) “Govt:” for Government
(twice). (7) a threat of “absolute separation”.
(8) a Franco-English inversion—“set against them­
selves the Chohans as he has”. (9) “L’hassa” (as
in Isis) for Lhasa.
Truth Will Out
If the above nine points do not show the writer’s
hand, here is one that does. The Mahatma is sup­
posed to be writing from Tibet, yet he is made to
say “going to Tibet” and “go to Tibet”, where
he ought to say “coming” and “come” to Tibet.
A similar slip occurs in Letter xxxv, in which a
sentence reads: “Remember the proposed test of
the Times to be brought here” (p. 247). We had
not heard of the proposal before, though we remem­
ber another, mentioned in Letter 1, the object of
which was to bring a copy of the Pioneer to London.
In any case “ here” must mean Adyar, in India,
219
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
for what would be the use of a “phenomenal”
production of The Times in Tibet? The conclusion
is obvious. Madame Blavatsky is writing both
Letters in her room at Headquarters, and in­
advertently forgets the Mahatma’s imagined loca­
tion; hence she writes “going” for coming, and
“here” for there.
The secret dwelling-places of the Mahatmas
having become a theme for jests on the part of
“the Sadducees”, Madame Blavatsky was once
possessed of a courageous impulse to lift the veil
and show them, for the Mahatma writes: “To save
us from being insulted, as she calls it, she is ready to
give our real addresses and thus lead to a catas­
trophe” (p. 428). As no one seems to have accepted
this offer, the addresses were not divulged, the
catastrophe was averted, and the Sadducees con­
tinued to scoff.
Damodar's Goings and Comings
A few desperate fanatics are reported to have
disregarded all warnings and scaled the Himalayan
heights in search of the Mahatmas; two of them
lost their reason and one (Damodar K. Mava-
lankar) was sent back within twenty-four hours of
his departure, without a word of explanation. Of
this case two telegrams give the particulars (p. 456).
The first is from Colonel Olcott to H.P.B., dated
November 25, 1883 : “Damodar left before dawn at
about eight o’clock letters from him and Koothumi
found onmytable—Don’t saywhetherreturn or not.”
220
The Forbidden Land
The second is from the same to the same, on
the same date, and to the same effect: “The Masters
have taken Damodar return not promised.” To this
the Master adds a note in his own hand: “We will
send him back. K.H.”
We cannot tell what really happened to Damodar.
From both ends of the line we have references to
his “going”, but we lack the assurance of his
reaching any goal. In a Letter referring to a Head­
quarters crisis, dated Summer, 1884, K.H. says:
“Damodar went to Tibet” (p. 363) and H.P.B.,
in a Letter dated March 17th (probably 1885)
touching on the same circumstances, exclaims:
“Happy Damodar! He went to the land of Bliss, to
Tibet and must now be far away in the regions
of our Masters. No one will ever see him now, I
expect” (M.L., p. 468).
We can believe the last sentence above, but not
the last but one. The Mahatma had an opportunity
of confirming it at the time of his own writing by
saying that Damodar was with him in Tibet, but
he did not say so. Nor did he even say “he
came to Tibet”—which would have placed the
writer within the land of Bliss—he said “Damo­
dar went to Tibet”, which again only echoes the
thought of Adyar, and traces the Letter to
H.P.B.
Ecce in deserto est, nolite exire: ecce in penetralibus,
nolite credere. This is a warning capable of two
applications. The Christ was not to be sought in
any place, for he might be found in every place.
On the other hand, although the Mahatmas had
221
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“real addresses”, they were never to be found, for
it was an “insane idea” to seek them.
Damodar in Substance and Shadow
The mysterious disappearance of Damodar would
seem to be the natural sequel to his much-tried life.
Cut off by his father for his attachment to H.P.B.
and the rule of the Masters, he received in conse­
quence the nickname of “the Disinherited” (gener­
ally written in the MSS. “Desinherited”, as if it
were derived from French Desherite). He had not
long entered on his clerical career at Adyar when
his “shadow-name” became detached from his
substance and was passed off as another m an! For
H.P.B. wrote to Mr. Sinnett: “Disinherited wants
to write to you he says—if you permit him—
through Damodar” (B.L., p. io). Through Damo­
dar? “Disinherited” is Damodar!Why this pretence
of duality?
Mr. Sinnett, deceived by the pretence, must
have given the permission required, for Damodar’s
hand wrote to him Letter xxxvn, marked it
Private, signed it The “Desinherited” and posted
it in Bombay. Its opening sentence: “The Master
has awaked and bids me write” leads the reader
to suppose it was written in the very presence of
the Master in Tibet, and explains why Damodar’s
shadow had been separated from his substance.
The Letter, says the boy, is dictated by the Master
(twenty lines of it are his own quoted words) and
it is written in English “with His help”. This we
222
The Forbidden Land
cannot believe, but as the writer seems to know as
much or as little English as H.P.B., and reveals
her style in about forty places, we conclude it was
written with her help.
The postscript to this Letter is its deepest mystery.
“Should you desire to write to Him though unable
to answer Himself Master will receive your letters
with pleasure; you can do so through D. K.
Mavalankar. ‘Dd’ ” (p. 250). Again we have
the pretence of duality. Damodar K. Mavalankar in
India will forward letters to “Desinherited” in Tibet,
who will put them before his Master for perusal.
Worse confusion is to come. “Desinherited” the
shadow, having broken off from Damodar the
substance, and become an independent substance,
gets a shadow of his own, for he writes Letter cxxv
(p. 453) and signs it “Gjual-Khool”, the name of
K.H.’s chela. The comedy of errors is crowned
by the Mahatma, who inadvertently remarks that
Letter xxxvn was written “by Damodar thro’ the
D----- ” (p. 260). We were told ten pages back that
it was written by the D----- through Damodar.
We are not surprised at Damodar’s running
away from Adyar, though we cannot be sure that
he went to Tibet. We can understand the motive
of Headquarters in turning a nickname into an
entity and so increasing the staff of phantom
chelas, but we think the Maratha boy with whose
personality these tricks were played must have
grown tired of them, and escaped to some place
where he could get an assurance, most important
in philosophy, as to who, what and where he was.
223
S E C T I O N X V I I
THE MANUSCRIPTS EXAMINED
By the combined permission of the executrix of the
late Mr. A. P. Sinnett and Mr. A. Trevor Barker,
the compiler, it has been possible for us to examine
the Letters of the Mahatmas, as well as those in the
same collection from Madame Blavatsky and other
persons. The examination took place in London, in
the presence of Mr. Barker. The time was short and
we did our best to note the obvious facts. Close
study was impossible. Mistakes hereafter, if any
should occur, may be pardoned, as it has not been
convenient to check the proofs with the original
manuscript.
We are in a position to affirm at once that, con­
sidered as documents, there is not the least sign of
mystery about any of these epistles. The caligraphy,
whether European or Indian, is that of the period
in which they were written; the instruments used
are steel pens, black ink, red ink, red pencil, and
blue pencil; a few Letters are written in brown or
yellow ink. The paper used is, in the earlier stages,
“large post quarto” glossy rice paper, common in
colonial and Indian correspondence; but in time it
descends into a variety of scraps of cheap “billet-
doux” stationery in pink, yellow and blue tints.
Envelopes of various sizes and shapes are preserved,
stamped as from England, India or France, with
postmarks and occasional registration marks. Seals,
224
The Manuscripts Examined
monograms and mottoes of various persons other
than the alleged writers occasionally appear. It can
be asserted, without fear of contradiction, that the
writings suggest no system of “precipitation” or
special method of production, and that they differ
in no respect from any bundle of letters that might
have been collected, on any other subject or by
other writers, fifty years ago, before the invention of
the typewriter. No microscope or chemical analysis
is needed to examine the writing, nor could any­
thing peculiar be discovered by such means. In
all probability an Indian or English stationer, of
age and experience extending backwards to the
“eighties”, could say at once where the paper was
manufactured or sold, and a handwriting expert
could with ease pronounce upon the period, class
and culture of the persons writing the Letters. The
legend of mystery and miracle may with confidence
be dismissed—and with it the metaphysical essays
on this topic by the Masters, Mr. Sinnett, Madame,
Mrs. Besant, and Mr. Jinarajadasa.
The Writers of the Letters
Putting together the two series—the “Mahatma”
and “Blavatsky” Letters—they fall into the follow­
ing classification:
1. Letters by Mahatama Koot Hoomi.
2. Letters by Mahatma Morya.
3. Letters by A. P. Sinnett.
4. Letters by A. O. Hume.
5. Letters by Countess Wachtmeister.
225 p
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
6. Letters by W. Q,-Judge.
7. Letters by H. S. Olcott.
8. Letters by Stainton Moses.
9. Letters by T. Subba Row.
10. Letters by Damodar K. Mavalankar.
xi. Letters by D. N. Bowaji.
12. Letters by H. C. Mohini.
13. Letters by W. Gebhard.
14. Letters by Elliott Coues.
15. Letters by Anna Kingsford.
16. Letters by W. Eglington, in two scripts.
17. Letters by Gjual Khool.
18. Letters by Maude (Travers) (not printed in the
books).
19. Letters by an unidentified amanuensis for K.H.
20. Letters by Madame Blavatsky.
21. Telegrams by P.O. Officials.
The Hands of the Masters
1. The script of “K.H.” is characteristic and easily
identified, though it varies in adherence to or
declension from its original type. It is the flow­
ing well-formed cultured hand of a European,
or, alternatively, and with less probability, of
an oriental educated on the Western model;
anterior in style, we venture to say, to the
introduction of “copy books” into the Indian
schools. The earlier Letters are very carefully
penned, so carefully, indeed, that there is a
suggestion of their having been feigned; but
this degree of painstaking is not sustained for
long, and the writer in time falls into a quicker
226
The Manuscripts Examined
and freer style. K.H. writes with a fine pen,
and as a rule in black ink. As said above, he
writes on thin rice paper. Many of the Letters
are in blue pencil, and have evidently been
written on a ribbed cloth book-cover or desk,
which reveals itself through the script, as is
usual in the case of pencil writing. Other
letters are written in red pencil without the
ribbed under-surface.
Apart from the openings to the earlier Letters
and the signatures to them, the K.H. Letters
appear to be normal and naturally written.
The signatures — “ Koot’ Hoomi Lai Singh ”
(generally “Sing”)—are decidedly suggestive of
a firm and formal hand. In the body of his
letters the writer almost invariably uses a stroke
over the letter M, which is characteristic of
mediaeval Latin and English script, and is
derived from the classical mode of abbreviation.
The stroke formerly signified either the letter M
itself or a repetition of it; therefore its use over
M or double M is unnecessary and meaningless.
In the course of his European travels and wide
reading, the Mahatma must surely have seen
the stroke in place of M on any Roman monu­
ment, or in the Psalter (d o m in v ), the Domesday
Book ( r e g e ) , the Bayeux Tapestry ( p a l a t i v
svv), or the Reading Abbey Round—“Sumer
is icumen in” ( r o t a , c r u c e ) . His practice would
appear, therefore, to have been an ignorant
affectation—unless any other explanation, com­
ing from India or Russia, can be offered.
227
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
The Hand of Morya
2. The Letters written by “M.” appear to us
to be deliberate degenerations from a natural
and better hand. The letters are very often
separated, as if studiously and slowly produced.
There are European forms in the script, and
the letter “r” is certainly Continental, indeed,
Russian in style, like several other letters. In
the specimen of M.’s handwriting given by Mr.
Barker in the M.L., the tell-tale “r” appears
fifteen times. The red ink used is poor “home­
made” glossy stuff, similar to that used by
ticket writers in a bookshop. Often the angle
of writing is oblique, and the flourished signa­
ture “ M.” is almost like “M.C.” in appear­
ance. We have no hesitation in saying that the
Letters of M. have a close affinity to the finer
normal writing of Madame Blavatsky. It is as
if a fairly good writer were deliberately writing
badly and in a feigned style, in order to deceive.
By a kind of caligraphic atavism, Russian-style
letters appear in every line. For what it is
worth, we may give the warning of K.H. with
reference to his brother’s hand: “You must
not feel altogether sure that because they are
in his handwriting they are written by him”
{M.L., p. 232).
The Styles of the Scriptorium
Writers of
Nos. 9, 11 and 12. The few letters of Subba Row,
228
The Manuscripts Examined
Bowrji and Mohini are in the flowing style of
educated Indians.
io. The writing of Damodar is the clear, almost
childish and “copy-book” style of a youth who
has gone through the Western education given
in India.
16. The writing of Eglington in Letter cxcm
(.B.L.) is almost feminine, and undisciplined
by the copy-book, while that of Letter cxciv
(B.L.) attributed by Mr. Barker to Eglington,
confessing to some delinquency, is signed E.
only, and is in a totally different hand.
1 7 . Two Letters (M.L. x x x v i i and cxxv) in identical
hand are signed respectively The “Desinherited”
and “Gjual-Khool”. We learn from Mr.
Jinarajadasa* that the former title was a
nickname for Damodar K. Mavalankar; the
second is the name of K.H.’s chela, who is
supposed to live with him in Tibet. But why
does he write in Damodar’s hand? The letters
are in a clear, childish and upright hand,
slowly written in coloured ink. The second
is signed “By order” ; both might be the work
of a just-educated Indian youth, fresh from
school.
18. Miss Maude Travers writes in pencil one
Letter by order of K.H.
19. The single Letter (No. l x x x v i i ) by the unknown
amanuensis has two postscripts by K.H. It is
very clearly and boldly written in copy-book
style with a broad pen in green ink, quite
* Early Teachings of the Masters, p. 75.
229
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
European in character, but quite probably by
an Indian with English education.
20. The numerous Letters of Madame Blavatsky
are written in a minute and normally clear
hand with a sustained “continental” style, but
they are much affected by ill-health and
emotion, so that some are almost illegible.
There is a single Letter in the collection, but not
printed in either of the books, from Madame
Zelihovsky, H.P.B.’s younger sister—of which
more anon.
It is now possible to say, from an examination
of the Letters, that those which purport to come
from the Masters or to be written for them are in
ten different hands, viz. K.H., M., Subba Row,
Damodar, Bowaji, Mohini, Gjual Khool, Maude
Travers, the unknown amanuensis, and H.P.B.
Evidently a fairly large “scriptorium” existed in
conducting the Mahatmic mission.
The Letters in Detail
The following is a detailed examination of all the
physically significant Letters in the two collections.
We begin with The Mahatma Letters, adhering to
Mr. Barker’s Roman numeration.
I. On rice paper, ioj X 8-|, in black ink, care­
fully written with a fine pen, with signature
“Koot’ Hoomi Lai Singh” and a counter-
signature in unrecognizable script (see p. 241,
Signatures and Counter-signatures).
230
The Manuscripts Examined
ii. Ditto, but with the word “Singh” changed to
“Sing”. The word “L’Hassa” appears, re­
miniscent of the form of this word used by
Madame Blavatsky in Isis U nveiled.
h i a. Ditto, but paper folded to 5J X 8-|.
iv. Ditto, reverting to 10J X 8-| and to signature
“Koot’ Hoomi Lai Singh”, with four words
of the name in poorly written Devanagari
script (see pp. 241-3).
v. Ditto, but with “Lai Singh” deleted (see
M.L., p. 364, for explanation).
vi. Ditto, written in dark blue ink.
vni. Ditto, written in dark blue ink, signed K.H.
After the words “Simla at least” (p. 34) is a
paragraph written in the hand of the
“ Disinherited”.
ix. In the MS. the word “Imper” appears
throughout, but it has been printed as
“Imperator”.
x. Written on 8vo half-sheets in black ink.
xi. No MS. of this Letter exists in the collection.
The printed edition (pp. 59-66) is copied from
Sinnett’s MS. book.
xii. On large buff sheets n | X 9! in red ink by
M. with the postscript in red pencil. It bears
four pseudo-Chinese characters which are
pronounced by a linguistic authority to be
meaningless.
x i i i . On thin paper 10J X 8J in Sinnett’s hand,
with replies by M. in red ink.
xiv. Copied from Sinnett’s MS. book. The post­
script refers to fly-leaves enclosed. They are
not in the collection.
xvi. Sinnett’s 10 questions are cut out of his letter
231
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
and pasted on to thin blue paper ioj X 8|,
to which replies are in the K.H. hand. Ten
folios are written with a thick pen and seven
with a fine pen on rice paper.
xvii. On Sinnett’s paper with K.H.’s replies in red
ink, datedJune, 1882. Quotes I s is : says at end:
“I do not know Subba Row—who is a pupil
ofM.” Why, then, has K.H. interpolated com­
ments and underlinings in a letter from S.R.,
10th August, 1882, to Blavatsky? (B .L .,
c lx ii) . Why also does S.R. report in the same
letter that he is permitted by M. and K.H. to
instruct Mr. Sinnett?
xviii. On large buff paper 11| X g|- the same as M.
uses in xn, written in dark blue ink by K.H.
xix. On two small slips in blue pencil on a ribbed
cloth book.
xxa. Written by Hume on 8vo in black, which
K.H. has underlined in blue pencil on ribbed
book. Part of his reply to Hume is on the
back of a letter from Sinnett to H.P.B.
x x b . Sinnett’s small slips to H.P.B. with K.H.’s
replies in blue pencil. K.H. sends 10 extra
sheets in blue pencil.
xxm. Sinnett’s slips, first followed by 19 of K.H. on
thin paper, and 18 on pink paper, 8vo.
xxiv. On heavy note-paper 8vo, in black ink with
fine pen, by K.H.
xxv. On blue paper, 8vo, in black ink by K.H.
xxvi. On rice paper, one sheet io | X 8J, in blue
preceded by initialled K.H.
xxvm. On rice paper, 12 sheets in style of earlier
letters, with signature “Koot’ Hoomi Lai
Sing”, as in those.
232
XXIX.
The Manuscripts Examined
On ten sheets rice paper, ioj X 8J, in red,
initialled M.
xxx. On thirteen sheets rice paper io| X 8^, in
blue ink, by K.H. to Hume. On folios 2 and 3
appears an extract from Hume’s letter appar­
ently in h is ow n hand. It is supposed to have been
precipitated in Tibet from his letter. In reality
it is carefully traced from Hume’s original
through the semi-transparent rice paper; the
mystery or miracle dissolves into a trick in­
tended to impress Hume.
xxxi. Purporting to come “from the depths of an
unknown valley, amid the steep crags and
glaciers of Terich-Mir”, this letter, written on
rice-paper, 10J X 8|, was posted on
March 25th, 1881, at Nantes, Loire In-
ferieure, France, as the envelope shows. The
address is in the K .H . hand to Sinnett, c/o
J. Herbert Stocks, Esq., 30 Kensington Park
Gardens, London. Stamped London, March
26, 1881.
xxxm. On tissue, odd size, in blue pencil, by K.H.
Sinnett has endorsed it “Shown to A.B.” (Mrs.
Annie Besant) as requested by its writer. “You
may, if you see fit, show this note to her on ly.”
xxxiv. On blue paper, odd size, written by K.H. on
ribbed cloth book in blue pencil.
xxxv. On rice-paper 10J X 8^, in blue ink in K.H.’s
later, freer style. Here M.’s initial is copied.
x x x v i i. On glossy, buff odd-sized sheet, in blue ink,
signed by the “Desinherited”. Three times he
writes in the style of M.’s initial in referring to
that Mahatma as “M. Sahib.”
x l v i i . On 3sheets ofrice-paper 1o\ X 8J in red by M.
233
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
L & li. On odd blue scrap in blue chalk on ribbed
cloth book.
l i i i . On thin blue io| X 8|- in blue pencil, ribbed;
the red portion referring to M.’s opinion. M.
adds a piece in red in his own writing.
l v . On 6 small 8vo slips in blue pencil. In the last
line K.H. quotes the hopeful motto P o st nubila
Phoebus used by Baron Shuldham.
l x . On cheap polished handmade paper; a scrap
written in blue pencil by K.H.
l x i . Written in red by M., using a cheap Indian
printed envelope addressed “Sinnett Sahib”.
l x i i . On 6 pp. note and 4 pp. rice in black by K.H.
in watery black ink.
l x v i . On rice paper in 4 pp. 4to in blue pencil by
K.H. Supposed to have been written at
Tzigadze in Tibet, but undated; it was re­
ceived in London on October 10, 1884, at
the moment when the Coulomb exposure was
at its height. H.P.B. was in England at the
time, and had on October 7, 1884, sent a
letter to T h e T im es (October 9, 1884) pro­
testing her innocence in that affair. Letter l x v i
was posted at Bromley, Kent (not a thousand
miles from 77 Elgin Crescent, Notting Hill, N.,
where Madame was then staying), on Octo­
ber 9, 1884, and addressed to Sinnett at
7 Ladbroke Gardens, Notting Hill. The en­
velope has on the flap a monogram of a large
compass with the initials S.W. (Sam Ward)
in red, about 1J inches in diameter. The writer
refers to the “present tempest”. He adds “Do
not, I pray you, attribute the above to any
influence from H.P.B.” A wise warning!
234
LXVU.
LXVIII.
LXIX.
LXXI.
LXXIII.
LXXV.
LXXVI.
l x x v iii.
LXXX.
LXXXII.
LXXXIII.
LXXXIV.
The Manuscripts Examined
Written to Col. Olcott on 4to rice paper; bad
writing, ending: “This is ‘a K.H. letter’.” A
“J ” pen has been used here for the first time.
The hand somewhat resembles that of
Damodar.
A letter signed “Maude” (Maude Travers,
later Mrs. Scott Elliott) to “my dearest” (Mrs.
Sinnett) encloses one for Sinnett written at
the dictation of K.H. and initialled in blue
pencil by him. It is dated August 20 (1884?).
The enclosure is Letter l x v i i i , undated.
On thin tissue paper like Letter x x x i ii , by
K.H. in blue pencil.
On a scrap in yellow ink by M., .thanking
Sinnett for the present of a pipe, which is to
be “cooloted”, that is, coulotte, or coloured by
nicotine.
On a scrap in red by M.
On the back of a piece of blue official foolscap
in red by M. It is curious that on the reverse
side there are some scribbles in H.P.B.’s
handwriting. What does this signify?
On polished cheap handmade scrap in blue,
signed K.H., in which the H, as in many other
cases, bears a great resemblance to the way
H.P.B. writes her own initial H.
On 4 cheap 4to sheets of pink paper in black
by K.H.
On 2 sheets of notepaper stamped “ T he
Pioneer, A lla h a b a d ”, of which Sinnett was
editor, no date, in blue pencil by K.H.
On 6 rice-paper 4to sheets by K.H.
On 2 rice-paper 4to sheets by K.H.
A scrap in green ink, for the first time, by K.H.
235
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
l x x x v i i . On 4 sheets of rice-paper, written in green ink
in large, clear, copper-plate handwriting, not
seen in any other letter. The envelope is
similarly written. It was posted at Adyar on
January 16, 1884, and delivered in London
on February 7 or 17, 1884. Signed “(By
order of my Most Venerated Guru Deva
Mahatma K. A)” and followed by a counter-
signature in Devanagari script, meaning
“Bhola Deva Sarmi”.
x c ii. In red pencil by K.H.; on a thin piece ofcard
containing Tibetan words which are ordered
to be used as a test of the genuineness of
spirit communications,
xcm. On rice-paper 4to red and blue, on the
heading is a monogram B.L.R. and the motto
“Knowledge ispower”, at present unidentified.
With reference to passages in an earlier letter
(No. vi) here repeated, K.H. says, “I transcribe
them with my own hand this once, whereas the
letter in your possession was written by a
chela.” Letter VIjust mentioned by Mahatma, is
infact written in the same hand as this one! (see
Sections xin and xiv on “The Kiddle In­
cident”).
xcv. On Pioneernotepaper written by K.H., who also
uses a piece stamped “Government ofthe N.W.
Province of Oudh”, in which is situated
Allahabad, where the Pioneer was published,
xcvi. On notepaper 8vo in red ink. The paper has
the same seal of the compass in red which
appears on the envelope of Letter l x v i of
K.H. posted at Bromley, Kent, on October 9,
1884. The date is not given, but it refers back
236
The Manuscripts Examined
to one of 23.11.83 (xcn) and may have been
written in 1884, when the party was in Eng­
land ; the seal is believed to be that of an
individual named Sam Ward, of Piccadilly,
xcvn. On polished handmade paper in red chalk
by M.
xcix. Hume’s letter to Koot Hoomi contains some
of the Mahatma’s replies; it was returned in
the same envelope with the name and address
disguised by overwriting,
ci. On a handmade chit in red by M.
cii. On rice-paper 4to in red by M., from which
it appears that Damodar is “Benjamin”, M.’s
chela.
c h i. On yellow paper in blue ink by K.H.
cvi. By K.H. Has a wounded heron crest and
motto UA deo et rege”, as used by Sinnett, on
the envelope—a case of stationery osmosis.
c v iii. ByM. Has a monogram ofthree roses on paper.
Whose?
cix. By M. in red.
cx. By K.H. in blue pencil.
c x ii. By K.H. on blue in blue ribbed pencil,
cxm. By K.H. on blue in blue ribbed pencil,
cxiv. ByM. in red on rice-paper 4to.
cxvi. By K.H. in red on rag paper,
cxvn. By K.H. in blue on a J-anna card introducing
Mohini to Sinnett.
cxvm. By K.H. in blue on yellow scrap,
cxix. By K.H. on Pioneer notepaper. Both notes
were probablysent to H.P.B., givinga message
to Sinnett. Rice paper appears to be running
short.
By K.H. on T.S. note-heading, Adyar.
237
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
cxx.
CXXI.
cxxn.
cxxv.
c x x v ii.
cxxxvm.
CXLII.
A chit on Indian printed envelope by K.H.
A chit by K.H.
A chit on Indian envelope by K.H.
On rice-paper in yellow ink signed “Gjual-
Khool”, but in the handwriting used by
The “Desinherited” of Letters vra and xxxvn.
The MS. is a copy in Sinnett’s hand of letters
to himself and Hume by K.H.
By H.P.B. on blue foolscap, like that used by
M. in Letter l x x v .
To Sinnett from Damodar. A facsimile of a
portion of this Letter (No. cxLiii) is printed
in T h e M a h a tm a L etters.
A Few of the Blavatsky Letters
in. A postcard to Sinnett in French and English,
giving notice of communications from Morya,
signed “Mulligan—H.P.B.”
v. K.H. signs “ k o o t h o o m i l a l s i n g h ” in a long
postscript to a letter from Blavatsky to Sinnett.
c l x i v . From T. Subba Row, Triplicane, Madras,
16th August, 1882, addressed “To Mahatma
Koothoomi Lal Singh, etc., etc., etc. Honoured
Sir.” Signed, “Your most humble and obedient
servant.” If this letter went to Tibet, what is
the explanation ofits inclusion in the Blavatsky
collection?
cxcm. Signed “W. Eglinton” and written from Earl’s
Court to Sinnett in India on P ioneer paper,
supposed to have been brought to London by
a spirit called “Ernest”. What did Sinnett
think about it?
In M .L ., p. 118, Sinnett asks: “When
238
Photo by] [Elliott & Fry
M R . A . P. S IN N E T T
The Manuscripts Examined
‘Ernest’ took that sheet of Pioneer notepaper,
how did he contrive to get it without medium-
ship at this end?” K.H. answers: “The several
‘privations’ of such sheets of notepaper were
evoluted during E.’s stay in Calcutta in Mrs.
G.’s atmosphere—since she frequently received
letters from you. It was then an easy matter for
the creatures in following E.’s unconscious
desire to attract other disintegrated particles
from your box, so as to form a double” (M .L .,
p. 122).
Enclosed in the Letter is a chit in the hand
of K.H., professing to have been produced in
London by a medium while the writer was
“at Tzi-gadze, Tibet”. It was probably sent
through the post to E. with the Pioneer paper,
with instructions what to say.
cxciv. Written to M., who is addressed as “My
Father”, by E. (Eglington?) October 3, 1882,
in a flowing clear hand, but not in the style of
an educated Englishman. If this letter went to
Tibet, its inclusion in the Blavatsky collection
is perhaps explained by the note at the top,
“Pray preserve this. M.”
Mr. Barker has kindly shown us another letter
in the hand of the medium Eglinton, written on
paper with the S.W. red compass seal, emanating
apparently from Lhadak, and signed “Morya”.
It was produced at a spiritualistic seance at Sam
Ward’s rooms. Mr. Sinnett has endorsed it
“nonsense”.
239
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Stationery Employed.
From the foregoing detailed examination the
following facts may be extracted as to the physical
aspect of the Letters.
1. Rice-paper 8| X 6| is used by K.H., M., Gjual
Khool and the unknown amanuensis. It is also em­
ployed frequently by Sinnett and H. P. Blavatsky.
2. Rough handmade paper xij X gj is used by
K.H. and M.
3. Pioneer notepaper is used by K.H. and Eglington,
the medium.
4. Government of N.W. Provinces paper is used by
K.H.
5. Pink paper is used by K.H.
6. Heavy 8vo notepaper is used by K.H.
7. Blue paper is used by K.H. and M.
8. Tissue paper is used by K.H.
9. Blue foolscap is used by M. and H. P. Blavatsky.
10. Yellowpaper is used by K.H.
11. Theosophical Society notepaper is used by K.H.
12. Cheap Indian envelopes are used by K.H. and M.
13. The ribbed basis for paper is used many times by
K.H. alone.
14. The monogram B.L.R. is printed on paper used
by K.H. for Letter xcm “in his own hand”, the
wounded heron seal by K.H., the three roses by
M., while paper bearing a seal of a marine compass
is used by K.H., M. and a medium.
Signatures and Counter-Signatures
Letter 1, concluding “always your sincere friend”,
bears the signature “Koot Hoomi Lai Singh”,
written, apparently, with a broader pen than is
240
The Manuscripts Examined
used for the body of the letter, and in a firmer and
different hand. The three last words are connected,
and the whole name is almost completely enclosed
in a loop, beginning below the final “h” and ending
just above it.
Letter iv appears to be in the same hand as
Letter i, concluding “Yours faithfully, Koot Hoomi
Lai Singh.” The signature is in a hand similar to
the letter, a fine pen has been used, and the form
of the earlier signature followed, but with a weaker
stroke. The sign for capital “H ”, taken by itself,
could not be recognized, the three last words are
not joined, and the loop is repeated.
K.H.’s signature to Letter i has under it a word
which may be taken to be the counter-signature
of the scribe. It is a puzzling mixture, apparently,
of Roman and Greek letters and some oriental
signs. Removing the trimmings, however, the sub­
stantial forms that emerge seem to be the capital
letters “H.P.B.”, concluding after a space with the
smaller letters “cy” or “cz”. The signature does not
appear on any other document.
Letter iv, by K.H., has his signature “Root’
Hoomi Lai Singh” repeated in Devanagari script;
it is written, however, in an unusually sloping style,
with a fine pen and by an apparently inexperienced
hand; it is incorrect in several particulars.
(1) The first and second names should not be joined.
(2) The long vowel 00 requires the sign under
the sign for K, thus , not which is the
C
N '~0
sign for short u.
Q
,
241
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
(3) T he consonant T, ending the first nam e root,
” 7“ , requires the Viram a \ after or under it,
to prevent it reading t a .
(4) T he letter h to hoomi is represented by an un­
recognizable sign; it should read
(5) The syllable hoo would be better rendered by
the compound sign than by the separate
and badly w ritten signs for h and 6b.
(6) The syllable mi should read •fif, not T j f ; the
sign f for short vowel i always precedes i
writing the consonant it follows in speech.
(7) The.third and fourth names should not bejoined.
(8) The syllable l a l , ■ S T F T j requires the Virama
\
after it to prevent it reading l a l a .
(9) The signs for si are very badly written, but are
properly placed. They should read the
0
additional sign abovethe line is not required;
it is a form of the letter R, which is not in the
name.
(10) The final g h requires the sign - g r , with the
Virama after it, to prevent it reading g h a ; the
sign used bears no resemblance to Devanagari.
In support of the above critical examination, we
give approximate renderings in Devanagari of the
name “Koot’ Hoomi Lal Singh,” first, as it would
242
The Manuscripts Examined
appear if correctly written, and second, as it
appears at the foot of Letter rv, slightly reduced.
Letter l x x x v i i of K.H., written by an unknown
amanuensis, reveals his identity by a counter-
signature in Devanagarl script, written amateur­
ishly under the name of the supposed dictator. It
may be read: b h o l a d e v a sa r m i, considered to
be the chela name of b o w a ji.
General Remarks on Handwriting
It is needless at this stage of our inquiry to employ
the services of a handwriting expert to examine
the Mahatma and the Blavatsky Letters. The
origin of the documents has already been traced,
internally as to their contents, and externally as to
their physical appearance and the apparatus
employed. Nevertheless a few general remarks on
handwriting may be made.
Art and Artifice
Ordinary observation, not to say expert knowledge,
makes us familiar with the characteristic hand-
243
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
writing of different nations. To-day, American,
French, German, Colonial, and Indian writing can
be detected at a glance by anyone accustomed to
receive international correspondence. National
characteristics were even more marked before the
coming of the typewriter.
In the Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett
there is one from Madame Vera Zelihovsky, the
sister of H.P.B. On inspecting the original docu­
ment, we were immediately struck by the character
of the handwriting; it was indisputably Russian.
But even more striking than this was its affinity to
the supposed letters of K.H. This fact can be
accounted for by remembering that the two ladies
were sisters, and presumably educated, in writing
at least, in the same school or fashion. We may
assume H.P. Blavatsky’s normal, youthful hand to
be like her sister’s—a round, clear, and flowing
penmanship, with special Russian forms of some of
the letters.
Anyone may test himself by an experiment: let
him abandon the scribble of his fifties or sixties, and
write carefully and freely. He will revert in some
degree to the style of his twenties or his youth, not
consciously, or from memory, but unconsciously.
The handWill remember itsearlier accomplishments.*
On this theory the careful hand of K.H. is the
early hand of the youthful H.P.B., revived in the
* The Authors can vouch for this; having been trained for the
English Civil Service in youth, they found the Civil Service style of
writing capable of being revived to the perfection of the copybook
in the war period of special clerical service.
244
The Manuscripts Examined
’eighties. It has many Russian characteristics. The
earliest letter in this hand is that written in French
to the Blavatsky family, unsigned, in 1870, at which
time Madame was in her thirty-ninth year.
The change coming with age, much writing, and
contact with European and American usage, re­
duced the rotundity of her hand, which became
smaller, sharper, narrower in letter formation—
the well-known hand of the lady in middle-age.
This new hand could be and was occasionally
written carefully. The best examples are the two
signatures “Koot’ Hoomi Lai Singh” at the foot
of Letters 1 and iv. In Letter 1 the text and the
signature are distinct in style, as if an effort had
been made to mark the difference, which was not
kept up in Letter iv and later.
But Letter 1certainly, and Letter iv by inference,
at least purport to be written in two hands, the
text by some amanuensis and the signature by
another hand. The counter-signature to that of
Letter 1 provides another perplexity. If it means
anything at all, it suggests that the signature above
it is not that of Koot Hoomi—as in commercial
correspondence we subscribe “per pro . . Who
was the principal and who the clerk?
It is enough to say that in the course of time the
Script A (of K.H.) degenerates into a scribble,
and the care shown in the earlier letters is not
maintained; still, it is clearly the same hand.
So much for K .H .; we now turn to M. Here the
hand is deliberately degenerate. It bears little resem­
blance—except in the case of some few letters—to
245
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
K.H.’s hand. It is a forced declension from the
middle-aged, angular hand of H.P.B. herself. In
A she goes back to her youth; in B (signature to
Letter i) she writes over-carefully her middle style;
in C (the hand of M.) she throws away all care and
lets herself go to such an extent that the script is
often hardly readable.
It is not necessary here to go into the American
period of the “Luxor Letters” in detail, except to
remark that there, as Mr. Jinarajadasa’s recent
book has shown, there was an earlier strained hand
of very closely formed letters, devoid of curves—
as if the Europeanized lady were cramping her
normal hand into the least possible space. There is
also what may be called a copper-plate script.
These two we may call D and E.
Unhappily we have been formally forbidden to
reproduce any parts of the Mahatma or Blavatsky
letters that were submitted to us for examination;
consequently our readers must take our word for
many of the statements made in regard to them.
Those who are curious to see acknowledged speci­
mens of these writings will find them in the front
pages of Mr. Barker’s book, where initialled frag­
ments of the “M.” and “K.H.” scripts appear. In
the sixth and revised impression Koot Hoomi’s
full signature is revealed, with Tibetan, Sanskrit,
and other cryptic accompaniments (p. xlvii).
By good fortune, however, there has come into
our hands a photograph of a letter in the un­
doubted “K.H.” hand, believed to have been
addressed, about April 6, 1885, to Dr. Franz
246
The Manuscripts Examined
Hartmann, author of Magic, White and Black, who
was at that time in partial control of the Theoso-
phical Headquarters at Adyar. It will be seen that
the letter expresses the wish of the Mahatma that
the Board of Control would continue to employ,
“in charge of the household business”, a certain
Madame Coulomb, whose suspected “conspiracy”
and “treachery” against H.P.B., through the
years of her Indian residence, had been the subject
of extremely bitter passages in her letters. Anyone
who has read this correspondence cannot but be
astonished at the forgiving tone of the Mahatma’s
letter, which counsels Headquarters “to err on the
side of mercy” in dealing with this sometime
“irresponsible” domestic. Seeing that in this letter
the Master completely ignores the injured feelings
and severe judgments of his Chela, who never
had a good word to say for “the Coulomb”, and
was at this very time repudiating her in the London
press, the whole letter, and especially the extra­
ordinary condescension of the last sentence—“Show
this to Mad. C.”—seems to us to breathe more of
the spirit of policy than of charity.
As to the style of the writing of this letter, it is
only necessary to say that it is a very good specimen
of the developed “K.H. hand”. It is exceptionally
firm and clear, is correct in grammar, spelling, and
punctuation, and contains two very marked pecu­
liarities of its reputed writer—the extended crossing
of the letter “t” and the line over the letter “m”.
Here follows a slightly reduced facsimile of the
letter, which was written about April, 1885.
247
Oo @**^3 CU
f/ «
-
^j2A^e*Z, Oe^A^e. c>J?j udLLt^ &4 &GLt>**£dftt*m
P&
H
. V
o ftiuL ^CaftEfti Ou~ftST\^loU ^
J US).
ao
cu^-teu
tu C * . “ ^ a < / ' C L ru J U * * * * & UO cl lZ* tc /u * * Z Z i
tO u jtft. t£>&fo*L CZl a-*-~j A u ft^ c p 9 &*■
Us-C
Cy \9&y (yt <
£
-o
~
. tx j @
iiu 10dzz<* tjuZo
co /tL
a
u
.c
L a.**<
t c£ccoL*ftaJZft . (fin* cftEZift
f-LouXO &o-CO *
2
a cu e/ ^tx*>ascxjLo 4
b*. ~
~
Cdake <±f&ASL cu t^ -y ' f c x x fflu te d - /)GL
&£co Quest, crux*. Coesxftuuoo £-0 (L^ffa-out.
&<xL tffieu U ecu*. <h eZiciot iU toeo/
€f««uuCou*J C
m
* 4U l CCoULcfa. EcOxb1u f4 L -
- &UCB* CL f tU c u * . d 0 Q j f j . ' - . t f Q /P a tftfttA u Q
f f’
Sst_ cu.&lo***Z* tofl*. tuxftocsu. io a, &
3biA<.
i24llO b sc M sft-o -C L t if^ S X j'jL M . O xC tM C uc/uq e.
ftft taftU u T ^ K L \0 &
Auoe . a//** &pUM*£
(SUjsuu/kftx. 4tt u( ~
^
p
0
L
a
. \04LnjKi. C
o~L
*/lU
U
*L Ull
O
&
u
C
U
L
je~ (f 4/t* ibxoaeftujSft &*u»uu^ut/ c
fC
i*
/2)(Xx**d o f Cem+oZoLiftO/S Cyuci^e Z^esuelpity
«-^Sx^Ssu ^U^SuLXOlX^Csxuui^^ft ^ y0eftl£j
O
L
C C
sjutS^
icU
ftcxftL
-C
uc.t C
*
S
o
4& "&**.' &l£L^ tu
U
O
CUsscot-ue*) •OetSco QtffyZcZZCtXoLAlftfrtf LuUuusuuutA,
OL y c n x f dfta ft ofc -ue^cruZ* is) O^ucooOasLy
CLllcL Ccllc &c ZUouia tuaft^LUL £ocft& 4
/lft!/
$LtuT~$£u. C
C
u
u
u
iC
L
^
C
X
sC
U
O
U
*( f ^OulUUl-CibcL^Zl
cuuuLOceixxsL. CoO-uftd SlCcoc. (uAc/(£-<*c-
~&LuO b o eft Sous cZoitxft CiMlsO^Lcn^oOC&y
^ o ftti*u\yco^tcftq^
~~& r j O * -^ ^ tu < jl/ou si.
"l&Jo &> f c T o l u . ui
C<9. oA sjcajft C ucC C ivO uc
‘r ?
The Manuscripts Examined
Lightfrom Older Manuscripts
After completing our examination of the Mahatma
and Blavatsky Letters addressed to Mr. Sinnett, we
made a brief study of the collection entitled Letters
from the Masters of the Wisdom (second series) pub­
lished in facsimile in 1925, which Mrs. Besant in a
foreword describes as “this priceless booklet”. None
of these Letters were addressed to Mr. Sinnett, and
not all of them came from the Mahatmas K.H.
and M., but the style of their writing throws some
light on the larger body with which we are most
concerned, therefore we will make a few comments
upon them.
The first Letter is dated by the recipient Novem­
ber 11, 1870, and purports to have come from
some occult source telling Madame Blavatsky’s
relations in Odessa that she would soon return to
them. The Letter is written in French and is not
signed by the name of any writer.
Letter 1
1 is signed “K.H.” and dated 1876; it is
in similar handwriting to No. 1, though written
in a freer style. Then follow the letters supposed
to have been written by the Brothers of the Luxor
Lodge in Egypt to Colonel Olcott in New York,
in which the Blavatsky key-word “try” (as we have
already shown) occurs several times. They are in
a disguised copper-plate handwriting. Letter xvi
is in a disguised Germanic hand, signed “Serapis”,
and Letter xxiv in a similar hand, though written
with less care.
Letter xxviii, signed “M.”, is almost exactly
249
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Madame Blavatsky’s own, and is addressed to
Colonel Olcott; the date is given as October 3rd,
1879. Letter xl is supposed to have come from the
“Master Hilarion”, and was received June 6,
1883. It is written in French, and is hardly distin­
guishable from the “M.” script which we have
already discerned as “debased Blavatsky hand”.
Letter lxxvi is in this last-mentioned hand, like
those addressed to Mr. Sinnett.
If the dates of Letters n and xxviii are genuine,
we learn from them that these Masters were
invented and named in America.
In concluding this examination of the Manu­
scripts, we may note a few particulars in which it
has yielded results that confirm the findings reached
by the reading of the printed text. To take first the
“precipitation” process, for long believed to be
the method of Mahatmic composition and trans­
mission: our investigation of that subject in
Section xii has shown that the testimony of the
Letters, taken as a whole, gives very little support
for the traditional Theosophical belief, and no
intelligible idea of the physics or metaphysics of
the process itself. The Manuscripts, as we have
said, reveal nothing to the sense suggestive of
exceptional clerical art, hence they correspond
with the proved inferiority of their literary con­
tents in respect of accuracy of fact and reference,
grammar, spelling and punctuation.
The disclosures made by the examination of the
stationery used—impossible to be derived from
the printed text alone—are astonishing. Starting
250
The Manuscripts Examined
out impressively on what might conceivably be a
Far Eastern lamasery’s best rice-paper, the writers
are later found in such straits for material that they
descend to a variety of bazaar-bought scraps, and
even to the appropriation, in a number of cases,
of the official note of their correspondents.
Lastly, the carelessness shown by a Mahatma
and a chela ofhis school in the use of the Devanagari
script, though surprising enough considered in
itself, is only what might have been expected after
the proof given in Section x on Indian Philosophy
as to the ignorance and lack of scruple displayed in
pretended citations from Indian classics.
251
S E C T I O N X V I I I
THE CASE FOR THE DEFENCE
T he evidence produced in support ofour “Blavatsky
Hypothesis” consists mainly of extracts from the
two collections of Letters and an examination of
the Manuscripts. Although in our view this evi­
dence is sufficient for a demonstration, we cannot
close our argument without referring to the sus­
picions which arose as to the genuineness of the
Mahatma Letters almost from the beginning of
their communication, and to the amazing character
of the efforts made to dispel them.
It cannot be supposed that the resemblances of
the Mahatmas’ styles to the mind and manner of
Madame Blavatsky were not perceived by some
of her more intimate associates, and it is clear from
the correspondence that the laying of these doubts
and fears to rest by means of physical devices,
excuses, evasions, apologies, defences, threats,
counter-accusations and ultimatums occupied quite
half of the distracted author’s time. In proof of this
we may say that the element of “'teaching” in the
Letters (such as it is) stops on p. 202, before the
middle of the book; the remaining Sections (on
Probation and Chelaship, the “Phoenix” Venture,
the London Lodge, and Spiritualism and Pheno­
mena) constitute an almost unbroken chronicle of
conflict and self-defence.
252
The Case for the Defence
Some Early Sceptics Answered
(i) We have already mentioned the mischievous
suggestion, thrown out at a Simla dinner table,
that the word “skeptic” in K.H.’s first Letter had
come over with the Founders from America. The
adroit reply of H.P.B.—that this was not so, for
“skeptic” was a piece of the Mahatma’s pedantry,
due to his familiarity with a classic tongue—was
characteristic of the readiness and resource of the
defence. (2) When the Letters had been “flop­
ping” on Mr. Sinnett barely two months, it became
necessary to work a phenomenon to confound the
growing suspicion of his associate, Mr. Hume, and
this, we believe, was the reason for “the Jhelum
telegram”. (3) In Letter v, K.H. regrets that Mr.
Sinnett had not carried through a certain test,
because, had he done so, it would have weighed
heavily with the sceptics, “though our hollow but
plethoric friend, Mrs. B., were even proved to be
my multum inparvo, my letter writer, and to manu­
facture my epistles” (M.L., p. 19). It was strange
that a Master should even allow the possibility of
fraud in writing of a senior Chela to a junior pupil,
and very early, in any case, for the suspicion to
arise.
(4) Stainton Moses was of the same mind as
Hume. “S.M. regards us as impostors and liars,
unless we be a fiction', in which case the compli­
ment returns to H.P.B.” (p. 308). (5) C. C. Massey,
a very old associate of the Foundress, thinks the
Mahatmas, “if not mere figments, are unscrupulous
253
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
confederates” (p. 314). Later, he affirms that
K.H.’s Letters “are written by H.P.B.” (p. 405).
Changes ofPolicy
In March, 1883, owing to “the incessant under­
ground intrigues of our ex-friend Mr. Hume”, a
policy of retirement was dictated. “The more our
actual existence be doubted—the better. As to tests
and convincing proof to the Sadducees of Europe
. . . this is something to be left entirely out of our
future programme” (M.L., p. 338). By the summer
of 1884, Mr. Hume’s scepticism had hardened into
certainty, and he was assuring every Theosophist
of note “that since the beginning of the Society
not one of the letters alleged to have come from the
Masters was genuine” (M.L., p. 363).
Repeated crises in the Society had the effect of
convincing Madame Blavatsky also of the wisdom
of “retiring”, in one sense or another, to positions
of strategic advantage. When Hume had prepared
fifty pages of typed matter for the Master to look
over, he was thus advised by K .H .: “Send them
to me either through little ‘Deb’ or Damodar and
Djual Kul will transmit them” (M.L., p. 66). The
insinuation here is that H.P.B. will not handle the
papers at all, but inasmuch as Deb and Damodar
were her devoted attaches, and Djual Kul was
K.H.’s fictitious Chela, invisible to all but her,
the chances of the proofs going farther on the way
to Tibet than Headquarters were very remote.
Again, K.H. writes: “I am advised to request
254
The Case for the Defence
that, for the future, communications intended for
me may be sent to either Damodar or Henry
Olcott. Madam B.’s discretion is not improving
with her physiological enfeeblement” (M.L., p. 396).
The same suggestion again;but how do we knowthat
Damodar or Henry Olcott will not have “discretion”
enough to pass the letters on to Madam B.?
“Please no more letters through m e,” writes H.P.B.
herself (B.L., p. 84). “I am dying from the effects of
the Simla causes” (p. 97).
All the above directions imply that letters not
sent through Madame B. will nevertheless reach
the Master; but we cannot reconcile them with
quite as many which imply that they will not,
because Madame B. is the only available astral
“post office”, both for outward and inward mails.
When Mr. Sinnett was sailing for England in 1881,
he was told: “Were she to die to-day—and she is
really sick—you would not receive more than two,
or at most three letters from me (through Damodar
or Olcott or through already established emergent
agencies), and then, that reservoir of force being
exhausted—our parting would be f i n a l ” (p. 36).
This we can quite believe, and we find confirmation
of it in H.P.B.’s own letters. “As he had very little
to do with us before that year at Simla, so will He
relapse once more into unknowingness and obscurity”
(B.L., p. 50). “Because, the hour is near; and that
after having proved what I have to, I will bow
myself out from the refined Western Society and—
be no more. You may all whistle then for the
Brothers” (H.P.B. in M.L., p. 466).
255
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Motivesfor Retirement
The motives for the strategy of retirement are
obvious. Madame Blavatsky was sick of “the
accursed phenomena” which had given the Society
a perpetual claim on her for more and more
wonders; she was also weary of casting uncon­
vincing shadows of Mahatmas on a screen, and was
longing to settle down to her magnum opus, The
Secret Doctrine, which was to have the effect of the
re-writing of Isis and the smothering of The Occult
World and Esoteric Buddhism, Mr. Sinnett’s tentative
and discredited works. Moreover, the fires of hostile
criticism were fiercely burning, and “exposures”
and “reports” were constantly in the press; so that
in the circumstances the less combustible matter
she put forth, the better for all concerned. There
might be, she suggested, a weekly or monthly
service of secret teaching for a faithful few, but there
must be no more phenomena or advertisement of
the Masters. “How well it would have been had
we all neverpronouncedMasters1names except in rooms
with closed doors” (B.L., p. 158).
Tactics ofBluff
The programme of quiet persistence in positive
good works, outlined in the above extracts, could
not be carried out. H.P.B. was still so dogged with
accusations that she once likened herself to a wild
boar, and vowed she would tear to pieces many of
those open foes and false friends who pursued her.
256
The Case for the Defence
Nevertheless, her last letter to Mr. Sinnett
(March 17, 1886) is calm and sagacious, and com­
mends to him the tactics of bluff that she had
so long successfully adopted. “If the L.L. is com­
posed only of six members—the President the
seventh; and this daring ‘vielle garde’ faces the
enemy coolly, not allowing him to know how many
you are and impressing him with outward signs of
a multitude by the number of pamphlets, convo­
cations and other distinct, material proofs that the
society has not been shaken, that it has not felt the
blows, that it snaps its fingers in the enemy’s face,
you will soon win the day” (M.L., p. 485).
“If There Are No Mahatmas ”
Touchstone, one of the wisest fools in fiction, says
there is “much virtue in an ‘if’ ”. This seems to
have been clearly perceived by a number of
apologists for the Mahatmas, and expressed in the
defences they put up against the suspicions and
accusations of enemies and the fears of friends. “If
there are no Mahatmas—then where are we?” We
present the reader with a collection of arguments
based on this formula, the first six being Madame
Blavatsky’s, and the rest showing well-known
Theosophical sheep following the logical track of
their shepherdess.
(1) “Had I been guilty once only of a deliberate
purposely concocted fraud . . . at best pity and
eternal contempt. If a conscious fraud—but then,
where would be the Masters?”
257 R
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
(2) H.P.B. to Mrs. Sinnett. “Of course you all
who believe in and respect the Masters cannot
without losing every belief in them think me
guilty.”
(3) “And if Mahatmas are myths, I—the author
of all those letters, a proclaimed fraud and worse—
how can the London Lodge live?” (M.L., p. 473).
How, indeed; but since “There is no Religion
higher than Truth”, why should the Masters,
H.P.B., their inventor, and the London Lodge sur­
vive the disclosure of a true but unpalatable fact?
(4) “There are no three solutions but two. Either
I have invented the Masters, their philosophy,
written their letters, etc., or I have not. If I have
and the Masters do not exist, then their handwrit­
ings could not have existed, either; I have invented
them also; and if I have—how can I be called a
‘forger’? They are my handwritings and I have the
right to use them if I am so clever” (M.L.,
pp. 480-1).
What has happened here? We are considering a
charge offraud, and the accused claims acquittal on
a count offorgery. “If I have invented the Masters
and their handwritings, I am not aforger.” Is there
much virtue in these ‘ifs’? We notice, too, that
‘either’has come to the help of‘if’, and the responsi­
bility of choosing between fraud and forgery is put
upon us. Surely the only choice worth making is
between innocence and guilt, not between one
deceit and another. Why does not H.P.B. plead
and prove her innocence?
(5) It was clearly a mistake to charge H.P.B.
258
The Case for the Defence
with “forgery”, for the handwritings of the
Mahatmas were not those of real people, whose
interests would suffer from the invention. But what
has she to say to the charge offraud, in her answer
to a certain Mr. Solovyoff, who had written a
book against her? “I told him that if people did
not leave me quiet—I would end by publishing a
gigantic l i e , that I had indeed invented the
Masters and written all myself” (.B.L., p. 213).
Here we have a female Samson, threatening to
be “avenged of the Philistines” by bringing the
whole house down on herself, in order to get peace
and quiet! We call this desperate heroism; con­
fessions, surely, are made to relieve the conscience;
“gigantic lies” usually burden it the more.
(6) Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus was a dictum
once quoted by H.P.B., and the sense of it several
times appears in her own writings and those of
her Masters and friends. When a suspicious corre­
spondent suggested that there were among the
later Mahatma Letters some that were not genuine,
she answered: “All the so-called letters being
supported by identical proofs, they have all to
stand or fall together. If one is to be doubted, then
all have, and the series of letters in The Occult
World, Esoteric Buddhism, etc., may be, and there
is no reason why they should not be in such a case—
frauds, clever impostures, and forgeries” (Lucifer,
15.10.88).
“If one is to be doubted, then all have.” This
is from the hand of Madame Blavatsky, who had
admitted in writing two years before (as we shall
2 5 9
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
presently show) that many of a later series of letters were
not genuine, and were written by her.
Three More Touchstones
(7) In the Appendices to The Occult World Mr.
Sinnett endeavours to answer the accusers of
Madame Blavatsky with the “either” formula:
“Either she must be right or she has consciously
been weaving an enormous network of falsehood
in all her writings, acts, and conversations for the
last eight or nine years” (9th ed., p. 179).
(8) Countess Wachtmeister, a friend and con­
fidant of H.P.B. in her later European sojourns,
also harps upon “if”. She writes: “If there were
no Mahatmas or Adepts . . . the teachings of that
system which has been called Theosophy would
be false. . . . Without these Adepts we would
never have had that Society, nor would Isis Un­
veiled, the Esoteric Buddhism and the Light on the Path
. . . ever have been written” (H.P.B. and the
Masters of the Wisdom, p. 251). The hand is the hand
of the Countess, but the voice and the logic are
H.P.B.’s. “If there were no Mahatmas (the argu­
ment seems to run) Theosophy would be false;
but Theosophy is true; therefore there are Mahat­
mas.” We are baffled by the reasoning; if we might
borrow a term from Isis Unveiled, we should call it
“a vitiated circle”.
(9) From Dawn, official organ of the T.S.
Loyalty League, Sydney, November 1, 1924, we
take our last example of the argument hanging
260
The Case for the Defence
on “either” and “if”. “Either the Masters exist
and H.P.B. was Their messenger, giving for Them
the teachings that They desired the world to pos­
sess, or she was utterly fraudulent. There can be
no middle way; H.P.B. was not genuine at some
times and untrustworthy at others. Either she was
what she purported herself to be or she was not.
In the latter case the sooner the whole movement
disintegrates the better; its dead corpse cannot be
destroyed too soon.”
“If there were no Mahatmas”—“Either she
must be right”—“Either the Masters exist” : let
us leave these Theosophical apologists in suspense
over a chasm of fearful possibility, from falling into
which they are only saved by holding on to “ifs”,
“eithers” and “ors”. Their reluctance to let go
and to push the argument farther than bare
supposition is natural, for a proof of fraud in
Madame Blavatsky would be a proof of folly in
themselves. In this respect their touching faith in
her reminds us of the generous incredulity of Mr.
Benjamin Goldfinch in A Pair of Spectacles, who,
on hearing that a young gentleman of his acquain­
tance had become a bankrupt, exclaimed: “Im­
possible, I knew his father !”
Notable Admissions
“H.P.B. was not genuine at some times and un­
trustworthy at others,” says the writer in Dawn. We
have said there is an admission by her bearing a
contrary interpretation, and we now produce it.
261
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
In the Introduction to The Early Teachings of the
Masters, pp. viii-ix, Mr. Jinarajadasa says: “But
we have to clearly understand that because a letter
happens to be in the well-known hand of a Master,
it is not necessarily all written by that Master
himself. In this regard the following statement by
H.P.B. is most illuminating.”
The statement that follows consists of extracts
from a letter from H.P.B., dated Wurzburg,
January 24, 1886, and confirmed verbally at
Elberfeld in June, 1886. It does not refer to the
Mahatmas' Letters to A. P. Sinnett, but to an un­
published series of answers to “personal and private
questions and prayers”, given by H.P.B. to “truly
devoted Theosophists”, and purporting to come from
the Masters. The admission is made that these
letters were “often something reflected from my
own mind for the Masters would not stoop for one
moment to give a thought to individual, private
matters”. It goes on to say:
“. . . It is very rarely that Mahatma K.H.
dictated verbatim; . . . He would say, write so and
so, and the chela wrote, often without knowing one
word of English. . . . Therefore the only thing I
can be reproached with . . . is of having used
Master’s name when I thought my authority
would go for naught, when I sincerely believed
acting agreeably to Master’s intentions and for
the good of the cause; and . . . perhaps . . .
of having insisted that such and such a note was
from Master written in His own handwriting, all
the time thinking Jesuitically, I confess, ‘Well, it
262
The Case for the Defence
is written by His order and in His handwriting,
after all.’ ”
The reader will observe that although the Vice-
president cites this “illuminating” statement in
order to show that some of the Master’s later letters
are not written by his hand, H.P.B.’s letter goes farther
than his case requires, and admits that a whole
series of them do not even comefrom his mind\
“ The Well-Known Script”
The statement was twice made in the Mahatma
Letters* that should H.P.B. die, there would be
no more communications from the Masters, and
this was open to two interpretations. One was
that she being the only available “receiver” of
messages from Tibet, the service must necessarily
close with her death, and the other was that she
being the writer of the letters, they would as cer­
tainly cease for that reason. Consequently when
she did die, and the letters were not known to be
arriving, a good many people drew the second
inference, and said: “How about the Mahatmas
now?” The questioners were for a time put to
silence by Mrs. Besant, who publicly stated—first
to her old Secularist friends in August, 1891, and
later to the Theosophists—that she had received
letters “in the writing that H. P. Blavatsky had
been accused of forging”. This startling declaration
was afterwards qualified in a very remarkable
* And by H.P.B. herself: “I—dead, say Society good-bye to the
Masters” (M.L., p. 474).
263
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
manner, in a statement regarding William Q.
Judge read at the Third Session of the European
Convention of the T.S. July 12, 1894: “I believe
(wrote Mrs. Besant) that he (Judge) has sometimes
received messages for other people in one or other
of the ways that I will mention in a moment, but
not by direct writing by the Master nor by His
direct precipitation; and that Mr. Judge has then
believed himself to be justified in writing down
in the script adopted by H.P.B. for communicationfrom
the Master, the message psychically received. . . .
Except in the very rarest instances, the Master
never personally wrote letters or directly precipi­
tated communications. . . . When I publicly said
that I had received, after H.P.B.’s death, letters
in the writing H. P. Blavatsky had been accused
of forging, I referred to letters given to me by
Mr. Judge, and, as they were in the well-known
script, I never dreamed of challenging their
source. I know now that they were not written or
precipitated by the Master, and also that they
were done by Mr. Judge.”
Attention need only be called here to the quiet
admission that a certain script was “adopted
by H.P.B. for communications from the Master”.
What does this mean? That the so-called “precipi­
tated” Letters, which had been thrust upon the
world for thirteen years as the actual writings of the
Masters, were not written by them, but by H.P.B.
Of course there is a suggestion that she was acting
psychically as their authorized amanuensis, but of
this mode of employment there is not a hint in The
264
The Case for the Defence
Occult World, or the Blavatsky and Mahatma
Letters.
“ The Work of Pupils”
The third notable admission which we bring
forward was made by Mr. C. W. Leadbeater in
the year 1912. In discussing certain matters with
Mr. W. G. John, the General Secretary of the
Theosophical Society in Australia, Mr. Lead­
beater wrote as follows. We quote in full his refer­
ences to the Mahatma Letters:
B r i t i s h C o n s u l a t e , P a l e r m o , S i c i l y .
F ebruary 25th, 1912.
M y d e a r J o h n ,
. . . Remember that the letters to Sinnett and
Hume were not written or dictated directly by a Master,
as we at the time supposed, but were the work of pupils
carrying out general directions given to them by the
Masters, which is a very different thing. . . . But we do
not trouble ourselves in the least about reconciling the
earlier statements—we just describe what we ourselves
see, or repeat what is said to us by those whom we trust.
At the beginning we did not know enough to ask ques­
tions intelligently, and we constantly misunderstood what
we were told. I lived through these early days, you know,
so I remember what the conditions were. . . .
Yours most cordially,
C . W . L e a d b e a t e r .
This letter, written in the thirty-seventh year of
the Mahatmic era, shows that the original legend
of the Letters died hard among the rank and file,
although it was apparently no longer believed by
265
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
the leaders. But the statement quoted above was a
private one, to which, so far as we are aware, the
writer never put his name in public print.
Mr. Sinnett’s Last Thoughts
The fourth and most important admission we have
to bring forward is a passage from The Early Days
of Theosophy in Europe, written by Mr. A. P. Sinnett,
and published after his death. Speaking of the
Mahatma Letters, he says:
“I may as well at once explain, what I only came
to realize myself in the progress of later years, the
true character of this correspondence. The letters
were not, in the beginning, what I imagined them
to be—letters actually written by the Master and
then forwarded by occult means either to Madame
Blavatsky or deposited somewhere about the house
where I should find them. They were certainly
inspired by Koot Hoomi (all in the beginning bore
his signature) but for the most part, if not always,
were dictations to a competent clairaudient amanu­
ensis, and Madame Blavatsky was generally the
amanuensis in question” (p. 27).
So Mr. Sinnett came to see in later years that the
Mahatma Letters, some of which he had published
in The Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism, were not
what he had imagined them to be. They were not
written in Tibet, and “phenomenally” forwarded
and deposited, but physically and fraudulently
planted, by which procedure not he alone was
deceived, but all those upon whose “noses” similar
266
The Case for the Defence
missives had been “'flopped”, to say nothing of
thousands of readers of his own and other Theo-
sophical manuals.
The Letters, it is admitted, were for the most
part written by Madame Blavatsky, though Mr.
Sinnett clung to the belief that they were inspired
by K.H. His changed view on the question of the
writing at least disposes of the ingenious and con­
tradictory theories of the production of the Letters
—“precipitation”, “osmosis”, etc.—reviewed in our
pages, and cuts off at a blow half the arguments
for the defence with which we have been dealing
in this Section.
Blavatsky at Bay
We have given an outline of the tactics of defence
adopted by Madame Blavatsky and her Theo-
sophical friends in face of the rising tide of sus­
picion and accusation in connection with the
so-called “Indian phenomena” and the Letters.
To these general defences we now add a selection
of special pleas from H.P.B.’s letters, which show
more intimately the state of mind into which she
was thrown by these attacks. They constitute a
strange medley of confession, denial, resignation
and defiance, from which it would be unsafe to
draw any conclusion more definite than that the
writer was fighting against great odds to sustain not
only her ebbing life but her sinking reputation.
The severest crisis through which H.P.B. had
to pass was the issue in 1885 of a report by the
267
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Society for Psychical Research upon the investiga­
tion made in India by their commissioner, Mr.
Hodgson. Her unofficial answers to this report,
made in a number of private letters written at the
time it came out, are such pitiable performances
that it was fortunate for her that they were con­
cealed from the public eye for at least thirty-seven
years. We give extracts from three of them, in­
cluding some passages which bear more directly
on the language and authorship of the Mahatma
Letters.
We take this opportunity of saying that our
examination of the Mahatma and Blavatsky Letters
has been made without reference to Mr. Hodgson’s
report. The appearance of Mr. Barker’s two com­
pilations seemed to us to call for an original and
unprejudiced investigation. Mr. Hodgson was com­
missioned to examine only a few of the earlier
letters, as well as the apparatus and agents of their
delivery, and other details of the Indian Pheno­
mena, with which we have no present concern.
Our task has been in one respect greater than Mr.
Hodgson’s, because he did not have the advan­
tage, accorded to us, of studying the complete series
of letters in text and manuscript in both hands.
De Profundis
In Letter cxxxvi, dated London, March 17th,
H.P.B. writes to Mr. Sinnett: “Besides—as a medium
of communication between yourself and K.H. I
am utterly useless now. . . . I have worked for
268
The Case for the Defence
them faithfully and unselfishly for years, and the
result was, that I ruined my health, dishonoured
my ancestral name . . . and finally did no good
to them, very little to the society” (M.L., p. 465).
Letter cxxxvm, dated Adyar, March 17th,
reads: “’Well, the phenomena are now all found,
on the evidence of padris, and other enemies,
frauds . . . and the Masters are dragged before
the public and their names are desecrated by every
rascal in Europe” (M.L., p. 468).
“Ergo, no more phenomena, at least here in
India. . . . Such is in brief the present situation.
It began at Simla opening with the first act and
now comes the prologue that will soon finish with
my death” (M.L., p. 469).
“I am tired, tired, tired and so disgusted that
Death herself with her first hours of horror is
preferable to this. Let the whole world with the
exception of a few friends and my Hindoo Occul­
tists, believe me a fraud. I will not deny it—even to
their faces” (M.L., p. 475).
Letter cxl, dated January 6, 1886, is written
from Wurzburg. “Well, after reading a few pages
of the Report I was so disgusted with Hume’s
gratuitous lies and Hodgson’s absurd inferences
that I nearly gave up in despair. What could I do or
say against evidence on the natural worldly plane!
Everything went against me and I had to die”
(M.L., p. 478).
“Oh unlucky,unhappy day when I first consented
to put you two in correspondence, and he . . . .
did not refuse my request!” (B.L., p. 25).
269
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Blavatskfs Own Hypothesis
Mr. Hodgson’s conclusions with regard to the
limited number of Mahatma Letters which he
examined were the same as ours, therefore Madame
Blavatsky’s answers to him above quoted were by
anticipation answers to us. He found in the
Mahatma’s letters bad English, French construc­
tions and American colloquial expressions, such as
would not be looked for in the writings of an
Asiatic sage, and for these reasons, among others,
he attributed them to H.P.B. The facts being
undeniable, how did she explain them? Unable to
admit that the Mahatmas, as the creatures of her
brain, very naturally thought, wrote and spoke in
accord with the varied experiences of her own life,
she put forward an alternative explanation, which
was that she had acquired her peculiarities of
writing and speech from the Mahatmas. This
astonishing hypothesis was not advanced as entirely
her own; it was said to be framed from the matter
provided for her by two timely dreams and a
vision, in which her Master K.H., as will be seen,
played the most important part.
Tibetan English
Two episodes in her life which H.P.B. might have
remembered to her advantage, but did not, were
said to have been recovered for her on the dream-
plane by the initiative of the Mahatma. One was
a remark made by him when she was leaving
270
The Case for the Defence
T ibet at the end of a long sojourn in 1870: ‘‘Well,
if you have not learned m uch of the sacred sciences
and practical occultism—you have learned, at any
rate, a little English. You speak it now only a little
worse than I do” (M .L ., p. 479). T he second recol­
lection was of the writing of Isis in New York, “in
my bad English”—from dictation by the M aster.
The inference from these two episodes was draw n
by the M aster, whose voice was heard speaking
to his Chela in W urzburg. “And now p u t two and
two together, poor blind woman. T he bad English
and the construction of sentences you do now, even
th at you have learned from me. . . . Take off the
slur throw n upon you by th at misguided m an;
explain the truth to the few friends who will
believe you—for the public never will to th at day
th at the Secret Doctrine comes out” (p. 479).
W ith her memory thus refreshed, H.P.B. goes on
w ith her apology. “But an hour after, there comes
H ubbe Schleiden’s letter to the Countess, in which
he says, th at unless I explain how it is that such a
similarity is found between my faulty English
and M ah. K .H .’s certain expressions, the con­
struction of sentences and peculiar Gallicisms—I
stand for ever accused of deceit forgery and w hat
not. O f course I have learned m y English from
him ! I was taught dreadful Yorkshire by my
nurse called Governess. From the tim e my father
brought me to England, when fourteen . . . I
gave up English altogether. . . . From fourteen till
I was over forty I never spoke it, let alone writing
and forgot it entirely” (p. 479).
271
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
“I learned to write it through Isis, that’s sure.
. . . When I had finished it I could write as well as
I do now not worse not better. . . . What wonder
then that my English and the Mahatma’s show
similarity. Olcott’s and mine do also in our Ameri­
canisms that I picked up from him these ten years.
I translating mentally all from the French would
not have written sceptic with a k” (p. 480).
“Who shall believe all I say in this letter outside
of the few? No one. . . . Yet you have to show at
least one thing: occult transactions, letters, hand­
writing, etc. cannot be judged by the daily stan­
dards, experts, this that and the other” (p. 480).
We must make some comments upon the last
paragraphs of these tragic letters, in which Madame
Blavatsky tries to explain why her English and the
Mahatma’s “show similarity”. Briefly, we are
asked to believe that she did not learn English in
her childhood from a governess in Russia, but in
her middle age from the Mahatma in Tibet and
New York.
We are asked to believe, further, that an excep­
tionally intelligent young woman, having failed
to learn English in her youth and at home, neg­
lected every opportunity of acquiring it abroad,
until she had retreated to Tibet in about her
thirty-fifth year, when she took it as a secondary
study under a Hindu teacher of “sacred sciences”.
Our wonder is increased when we remember
the travels and voyages made by this lady in many
parts of the world, where a knowledge of English
would have been her best passport. Her biographies
272
The Case for the Defence
tell us that she made three visits to England, three
or more to India, one to Tibet in company with
an Englishman, others to China, Japan, Egypt,
New York, Chicago, the Rocky Mountains, San
Francisco, Texas, Canada, Cape Colony, Ceylon
and Singapore; and all this was done without
knowing or acquiring any English!
We observe that in the dream story the Mahatma
takes credit for having taught Madame Blavatsky
all the English she knew by the year 1870, when
she turned her steps homeward to Odessa. We are
in doubt as to which was the greater marvel, her
ignorance of English prior to the Tibetan retreat,
or her rapid advance in it after settling there. In
any case the story is not quite consistent with itself,
for 1870 (when she left Tibet, a fairly proficient
speaker of English) was H.P.B.’s fortieth year, by
which date (we have just been told) she had
entirely forgotten her English! We must believe,
however, that she was sufficiently grounded in our
troublesome tongue to justify her sailing to America,
an English-speaking country, in 1873, and founding
the Theosophical Society there in 1875. Isis was
completed in 1877, which year H.P.B. gives us as
the date of her final mastery of English.
A Great Evasion
The astonishing story outlined above must be taken
as the best explanation that could be given of the
“similarity” between the literary styles of Madame
Blavatsky and the Mahatma K.H. He did not
273 s
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
learn from her, as was suspected; she learned
from him. Yet, when we reflect on the theory pro­
pounded, we realize that (apart from its incredi­
bility) it laboriously answers questions that have
not been asked, and does not answer questions
that have been asked. The composition of H.P.B.’s
literary style, and the circumstances that moulded
it, were never matters of doubt or enquiry. “Hubbe
Schleiden’s letter to the Countess” did not ask why
“Gallicisms” were present in H.P.B.’s writing, but
why they were present in K.H.’s. (And he might have
added Morya’s, for both Masters were inexplicably
“frenchified”.)
It is no rare thing for a native of one country
to write the language of another copiously but in­
correctly, to base this less known language on the
forms of one better known, and to acquire by resi­
dence in foreign countries the fleeting vernacular
of many times and places. All these things Madame
Blavatsky unquestionably did, and not one of
them required explanation. The facts that do
require explanation, however, are the following:
(i) That the literary styles of two Asiatic sages are
non-Oriental; (2) That they are European, modern
and bi-lingual, that their English elements are
frequently faulty, their construction and spelling
showing the writers are “translating mentally from
the French” ; (3) that they contain large infusions
of “Americanism” ; (4) that the English literary
references made by the reputed Adepts are almost
invariably incorrect, the Latin faulty, but the
French immaculate.
274
S E C T I O N X I X
THE THEOSOPHICAL SUPERSTRUCTURE
W ith the closing of the preceding Section our task
is all but completed. We now know who wrote
the Mahatma Letters to Mr. A. P. Sinnett and
other persons; and in the course of our statement
of the Problem, the Investigation and the Demon­
stration, we have learned how much or how little
to value their contents. The Letters, however, do
not stand alone. They form the basis of a super­
structure which, as to its magnitude, is immense
and as to its character and claim, stupendous. If
this basis be proved unsound, the superstructure
must collapse.
The Occult Hierarchy
The present Section serves to indicate in a formal
manner the principal elements of the Theosophical
edifice which, during nearly fifty years, has been
built up before our eyes. The Mahatma Letters
introduced and exhibited to the world a small
company of persons variously called “The Uni­
versal Brotherhood”, the “Masters of the Wisdom”
and the “Occult Hierarchy”. Whether or not there
are such orders of beings, it has not been our
purpose to inquire; it is sufficient to say that if
Madame Blavatsky had on her own authority
275
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
affirmed their existence and functions, the world
would have been free to accept or reject her ideas
as it pleased. But she went further; she endeavoured,
as our investigation shows, to compel the world to
believe her, by attempting to create an objective
demonstration of the existence and work of certain
Mahatmas, and to cast a glamour over her con­
temporaries by a series of marvels which many were
unable to resist. Thus the occult hierarchy was in
the first generation of Theosophists organized and
revealed with a wealth of personal detail, until it
became fixed in the imagination of believers. The
two Masters of 1880 were soon multiplied to ten,
and later to sixteen; they included “Hilarion”
the Greek (identified with Iamblichus, the Neo-
platonist) and the “Count” (identified with the
Comte de St. Germain of the eighteenth century).
As a concession to Christians, “the Master Jesus”,
after due trial and probation, was admitted into
the company of the elect.
As soon as the Indian belief in Reincarnation
had been definitely accepted by Mr. Sinnett and
his successors, Madame Blavatsky’s Masters were
provided by Mr. Leadbeater with an occult genea­
logy of their previous lives, which embedded her
inventions more deeply in reality. K.H. was
declared to be a reincarnation of the Chinese
Philosopher Lao-tze, while, by the bounty of
fortune, he appeared in Europe in the flesh of
Pythagoras of Samos. Thus we had the surprising
spectacle of a Mahatma’s ancestral “double”
gracing two continents at once, as soon as his-
276
The Theosophical Superstructure
torians were able to show that the Chinese sage
and the Greek philosopher had been contemporaries
in the sixth century b.c.
Above the Tibetan Masters—who, after all, with
their earthly jollity, their swearing and smoking,
were very human creatures—Madame Blavatsky
had given us faint glimpses of other and greater
beings. In the course of time, through Mr. Sinnett
and the smaller literary fry of his day, but mostly
by the labours of Mr. Leadbeater and Mrs. Besant,
we have been told the names and functions of the
occult officials who govern the world.
H. P. Blavatsky’s “Chohans” and the “Maha-
Chohan” are still in being, but we have also been
allowed to hear of The Lord Vaivasvata Manu
(extracted from Vedic legend), The Bodhisattva,
The Lord Maitreya (both adopted from Mahayana
Buddhism), “The Director of Evolution”, and
even of “the Great King” of the Universe Himself.
Mr. Leadbeater has further added to the courts of
heaven whole choirs of angels and minor beings,
corresponding to the devas and gandhavas of India.
The Pauline and Gnostic hierarchies were simi­
larly patronized and incorporated into the Theo­
sophical Superstructure, to secure the adherence of
both orthodox and heretical Christians.
Constructing a Cosmology
In the branch of Cosmology the Theosophical
Superstructure has risen to great heights. How
277
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
Madame Blavatsky must have smiled* to see poor
Mr. Sinnett patiently building up, storey by storey,
the pagodas of The Occult W orld and Esoteric
Buddhism—with nothing more substantial than a
pack of cards out of her own cabinet of magic! And
what will the Theosophists think and say—who
have made Mr. Sinnett’s two books the Leviticus
and Deuteronomy of their Bible—when they see these
paper edifices collapse before the first breath of
truth?
The Tibetan T w ins
The ethnologists and anthropologists of Science,
who were ever doing their best to present a
reasoned history of man, received scant respect
from Blavatsky, Sinnett, Leadbeater and Besant.
Just as the Mahatmic theory about chains and
rounds of planets has become the stuff out of which
thousands of “propaganda lectures” have been
made, so the history of the human race, on Blavat-
sky’s initiative, has been dislocated from the begin­
ning. Such works as M an, A Fragment o f Forgotten
H istory, by Two Chelas, Rents in the Veil o f T im e;
M an, Whence, H ow and Whither? and The Lives o f
Alcyone lay claim to an historical omniscience which
* This is no mere figure of speech. H.P.B. made her Mahatmas
reproach Mr. Sinnett for rushing into print with his books. When
critics found fault with Esoteric Buddhism she and Subba Row de­
fended it in The Theosophist. But when she published The Secret
Doctrine she threw him over, and wrote to the critics (Maitland and
Kingsford): “We were obliged to support him then because he
represented us, but when the secret doctrine was concerned it was
necessary to tell the truth” {Life of A.K., Vol. n, p. 160).
278
The Theosophical Superstructure
rests ultimately on the Mahatmic revelation. In
the two last-named books, which until lately were
the accepted New Testament of Theosophy, human
history for millions of years is represented by Mr.
Leadbeater to a credulous world. We are assured
that he and Mrs. Besant have found out all these
things by means of clairvoyant investigation. Like
the landlady of an inn who shows her customers
“the chair in which Mr. Pickwick used to sit”, so
they exhibit in the smallest detail the things that
were done and said by the Mahatmas on the stage
of the world for thousands of generations. These
Tibetan twins, it appears, have been mixed up in
every great event; they have married many beauti­
ful women, ruled every nation, taught all cultures,
and founded all religions. Even in these latter days
they have outdone their past by founding a World
Religion, which was promulgated on behalf of
the Maha-Chohan at Kensington Town Hall on
October 12, 1925. O, Helena Petrovna, thou art
mighty yet!
Buddhist-Liberal Catholics
In the realm of psychology, the doctrine of the
“Seven Principles of Man”, first educed with
tortuous efforts from ancient Indian books, and
passed on for publication to Mr. Sinnett in the
flimsies of the ’eighties, finally became the stock-in-
trade of later teachers. Although the early
Upanishads and philosophical Sutras of the Indians
had speculated on the septenary doctrine for
279
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
centuries, it was not to them that Theosophists
turned for support, but to the petty plagiarisms of
the Letters, afterwards condensed into the shilling
Manuals of Mr. Leadbeater and Mrs. Besant.
In regard to Theology, later Theosophical
writers have followed the Mahatmas’ lead into a
stifling fog of contradictory metaphysics. Beginning
as Buddhists, they denied God; continuing as
Hindus, they affirmed Him as the Parabrahm of
the Vedantins. Their latest exploit has been to
found, in the name of the Masters and by their orders,
a Theosophical Liberal Catholic Church, in which
they celebrate the Mass and recite the Apostles’
Creed.* We may add that in an earlier clairvoyant
“revelation”, Mr. Leadbeater had declared that
the Apostles had never existed. It became necessary
for him to change his mind.
Koot Hoomi as King-Maker
Not only in respect of its doctrine, but also of its
official appointments, has the Theosophical Society
been to this day swayed by belief in the Mahatmas’
authority and power. It will be remembered that
the reading of a telegram from some mysterious and
unnamed source ordering the re-appointment of
Mrs. Kingsford to the Presidency of the London
Lodge, closed for a time the rift in that body’s
ranks between the Hermetist and the Buddhist
sections. Although the message came through
* We have witnessed the rite at the Liberal Catholic Church in
Caledonian Road, London.
280
The Theosophical Superstructure
“Koot Hoomi”, a letter from him to the members
declared it to be “the express wish of the Chohan
himself” (M.L., p. 398). A month later the advice of
the telegram was admitted to be an “unusual, not to
say arbitrary interference with the reserved elective
rights of a Branch” (M.L., p. 406), and a decision
by ballot was recommended in its stead. Neverthe­
less, the precedent of the telegram was remem­
bered and followed in a later crisis, when the
Presidency of the parent society was involved. In
1908, Colonel Olcott, Madame Blavatsky’s suc­
cessor, lay paralysed and awaiting his end. The
Master K.H. (so we have it in the words of Mrs.
Besant) appeared at his bedside and “ordered him
to nominate me to the Presidency”. This alleged
visitation took place seven years after the death of
Madame Blavatsky, Koot Hoomi’s inventor and
prompter. One begins to see that there is scarcely
a limit to what a mythical Master can do, so long
as it is something that his credulous disciples can
desire and believe.
Mahatmic Support to the Theosophical Society
It is hardly too much to say that if each part of
the Superstructure mentioned in this Section were
described in detail, it would require a volume
almost as large as this one, for it would have to
contain a history of all those bodies of a Theo­
sophical character which in later years built their
nests in the chambers and turrets of the main
edifice, and it would have to delineate the features,
281
W ho W rote the M ah atm a L etters ?
characters and careers of the leading persons in
the neo-Theosophical world. Yet the barest outline
of this history must here be given, in order to
introduce some specially significant features of
later development.
As the reader will have learned from earlier
Sections, the Theosophical Society was founded in
1875, at which date it consisted virtually of no one
but the founders. The Mahatma Letters only began
to appear after the migration to India in 1880, so
that for five years the Society did not rest upon
them in any architectonic sense. Its lowest literary
stratum was in fact the “Luxor Letters” and those
other occasional missives from the beyond which
we have quoted from Letters of the Masters of the
Wisdom.
Our account of the delivery of the Mahatma
Letters of the ’eighties will have left no doubt in
the reader’s mind that without their aid nothing
could have been accomplished more substantial
than the formation of a few occultist literary
coteries. Mr. Sinnett and his materially minded
associates of the Indian services would never have
been converted to a belief in pseudo-Himalayan
marvels, nor would Mrs. Besant have been drawn
from atheism to credulity by reading for review
The Secret Doctrine, had it not been based, as it
professed to be, on the revelations of the writers of
the Letters. More than this: if we were to tell of
the building up of the Society, stage by stage, and,
especially, of the Esoteric Section—commonly
known as the “E.S.”—we should have to show
282
The Theosophical Superstructure
that every member received into that select inner
body was obliged to accept the authority of the
Masters. Documents emanating from the “E.S.”
which have come into our hands establish the fact
of this claim, even although the text of the Masters’
Letters did not see the light of day until 1923.
R ifts in the Superstructure
The Theosophical movement very early split up
into a number of parts owing allegiance to different
leaders. Mrs. Katherine Tingley was the chief rival
to Mrs. Besant in America, and other groups made
their appearance in that country. The Society
whose headquarters were settled at Adyar became
the largest and most widely diffused section of the
movement and, without doubt, its leaders and
officers were held by the invisible nexus of the
Esoteric Section to the President, Mrs. Besant, and
through her to the Masters.
The special function of Mr. Leadbeater in the
progress of the movement was to support Mrs.
Besant’s authority and to supply, from time to time,
fuller information about the Masters; and his chief
title to fame in this respect was, and is, his com­
position ofthe millennial history ofmankind, stretch­
ing far into the past and future. Yet there were
elements in his teaching which put a severe strain
on the loyalty of many Theosophists and led to
serious secessions from and much discontent within
the Society.
283
W ho W rote the M a h a tm a L etters?
The W orld Teacher
Outstanding among Mr. Leadbeater’s literary and
occult inventions is the life-story of “Alcyone”,
the aeonian name given to the child Krishnamurti,
upon whom his discerning and clairvoyant eyes had
fallen about the second decade of this century. The
world knows the broad outlines of this story so well
that there is no need to repeat it here: how the
Hindu youth was acclaimed on these credentials
as “the one who should come” as a World Teacher,
while his younger brother, Nityananda, was des­
tined to be a World Ruler.
It can be stated without the possibility of denial
that, from about 1911 onwards, the greater part
of the Theosophical Society affiliated to Adyar
accepted the belief in the coming of a World
Teacher, and sat at the feet of Krishnamurti, as
boy and man, for over ten years, in India, Europe
and America—indeed, wherever he went. And
although the doctrines of the now published
Letters lend no support to the idea ofsuch a mission,
yet not one word of Mr. Leadbeater’s story could
have been written except as a sequel to the Mahat-
mic correspondence. For this product of the mind
and hand of H.P.B. had given to K.H., M. and
others such a reality that it was an easy matter for
the gifted visionary who succeeded her to place his
own discovery and the President’s protege secure
among such venerable companions.
284
The Theosophical Superstructure
A Rising and Sinking Star
In December, 1925, at Adyar, Madras, Mrs.
Besant collected a company of several thousands
of her adherents, and on Christmas Day repeated
officially a series of pronouncements which had
been rehearsed under very favourable circumstances
in Holland during the month of August.
The “World Religion” was foretold and its details
revealed in a pamphlet of two pages, which was
thereafter circulated to every member of the
Theosophical Society. The coming of the World
Teacher was indicated as imminent, and it was
stated clearly that he, known in the Buddhist world
as “the Bodhisattva”, the “Lord Maitreya”, and
in the Christian world as “the Lord Christ”, would
take possession of the prepared body of his disciple
Mr. Krishnamurti.
In order to fulfil an educational function, the
“Theosophical World University” was declared in
being, of which the President herself was the
Rector, Bishop Arundale Vice-Rector and Bishops
Leadbeater and Wedgwood the Directors of Special
Studies.
What now has become of this marvellous out­
growth from the Mahatmic stem nursed and
watered by Mr. Leadbeater and Mrs. Besant?
Where is the Order of the Star in the East? It has
been dissolved by the very messenger whom it was
founded to herald. Thirty thousand members—
and subscribers—have been abandoned by their
titular head; the Theosophical Society, which,
285
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
though its leaders gave the youth his exalted status,
has been rejected by him together with its basic
doctrines. At this date (1936) Mr. J. Krishnamurti
is an independent teacher who denies nine-tenths
or more of what was predicted of him by his chief
sponsors—indeed, his creators. His coming and his
going have both shaken the Society to its founda­
tions and left it devoid of its sensational activities
of the post-war years.
Disruption
The Society is now roughly divided into two un­
equal groups: the larger, which adhered blindly,
silently and loyally to Mrs. Besant—and now' to
her memory; the smaller, which lives by the slogan
“Back to Blavatsky” and ties itself to The Secret
Doctrine. Outside the Adyar Society are other
“Blavatsky” groups, including one of which Mr.
Barker, the compiler of the Letters, is the London
representative. Here, of course, the Letters are the
gospel.
Other annexes to the main Society still exist
in derelict form. The Liberal Catholic Church has
not been dissolved, like the Order of the Star,
but it no longer performs any hierarchical function
for the main Society. The Theosophical University
retains the services of a single peripatetic professor,
but can boast of no colleges or graduates. The
Theosophical Educational Trust has been wound
up and its properties are sold or for sale. The names
of the Lodges of the Society are preserved in print
286
I
The Theosophical Superstructure
in most countries of the world, but their member­
ship is substantially reduced and many of them
suffer from the disruption caused by Krishnamurti’s
exit and other defections. In a word, the Theo­
sophical Superstructure, which could never have
been raised but for the Mahatma Letters, is crumb­
ling before our eyes. This book ought to bring it
level with the ground—in spite of the eleventh-
hour endeavour to sustain it, now to be recounted.
Clairvoyant Confirmation
We have now to treat of a part of the Super­
structure which, from its being added to the building
so late in time as the year 1925, might aptly be
called “The Coping Stone”. This is a book by Mr.
Leadbeater entitled The Masters and the Path, pub­
lished in America two years after the appearance
of The Mahatma Letters. Although it makes no
direct reference to them, it is clear to a reader of
both books that the later one is a hastily produced
but careful supplement to the earlier. Accepting,
as the writer is bound to do, the Mahatmas’ own
fragmentary accounts oftheir characteristics, private
lives and abodes, he professes to use his clairvoyant
faculty to confirm and elaborate the vague outlines
presented in the Letters.
In the second chapter, Mr. Leadbeater under­
takes to say a few words about the daily life and
surroundings of the Masters as a large hierarchical
group, but he only fulfils this promise in regard
to our two Mahatmas; which is another indication
287
\
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
of the real purpose of the book. We are told that
these Masters always appear impressive, noble,
dignified, holy and serene, yet they are not without
humour. Master Morya, we are told, once said that
it was impossible to make progress on the occult
path without a sense of humour, which is a lame
apology for his own crude and elephantine jests
in the Mahatma Letters, and perhaps also a justi­
fication of Mr. Leadbeater’s smaller pleasantries.
Both Masters are said to be fine-looking men,
apparently in the prime of life, but by ordinary
standards, really old. M. is a dark Rajput King, of
imperious dignity. He speaks in short, terse sen­
tences, as if he were accustomed to be instantly
obeyed. He first met H.P.B. in Hyde Park, when
he came with other Indian Princes to the Great
Exhibition in 1851. At the same time, it is nice to
know, M. took notice of the little boy Leadbeater
(as the boy did of him), a fact which the Bishop
learned from the Master’s own lips in after years.
K.H. is a Kashmiri prince, pale-skinned as an
Englishman; in Tibet he rides a big bay horse,
while M.’s mount is white.
The H appy Valley
Mr. Leadbeater describes a certain valley in Tibet
where, he says, three of the Masters—Morya,
Kuthumi and Djwal Kul—are living at the present
time. K.H. and M. occupy houses on opposite sides
of a narrow ravine. Beneath the first house is the
entry to a vast subterranean occult museum, con-
288
The Theosophical Superstructure
taining lifelike images of every type of man that
has lived on the earth, models in alto relievo of all
the changing surfaces of geological time, as well
as models of ancient cities. Books and manuscripts
load the shelves; among the latter there are
authentic writings of Buddha and Christ. What a
pity that these valuable documents have not been
brought to light, but have been ousted by the Mahat­
mas’ Letters, as being of more worth to the world!
The valley is sheltered and faces south, and
though the surrounding country is under snow
during the winter, no snow has been seen clair-
voyantly near the Masters’ houses. In confirmation
of the above statements, a picture of the Masters’
ravine is given. If the truth must be told, however,
it bears more resemblance to an imaginative
painting on a dinner-plate than to the views of
Tibetan landscape made familiar to the general
public in “The Epic of Everest”. There is not a
sign of distant snow-capped mountains, and the
architecture of a stone building, half hidden in the
trees, bears no trace of the Indo-Tibetan style,
but is in the nondescript manner of an English
seaside tea-garden or grotto. A dark bearded
horseman (who might be Morya) is climbing up
the path, a peasant (who might be Djwal Kul) is
paddling in the brook, which ought to be, accord­
ing to the properties of nature, a rushing stream.
Something like a cross surmounts the gable of the
two-storey building, the portals and windows of
which are arched with a very bad brickwork.
A plan of Kuthumi’s house or bungalow is given.
289 T
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
There are three rooms on the ground floor; they
are central-heated and surrounded by a verandah.
The main room is for teaching and receptions, the
second for study, and the third for sleeping. K.H
is credited with being a great linguist, a fine
English scholar, and learned in French and
German—Russian is not mentioned; he has thou­
sands of books and a typewriter. He is also a
musician and a composer; he plays on a three-
manual organ and piano combined, which has
been built in Tibet. The organ pipes are in the
roof of the bungalow, and when the instruments
are played, the “Music Devas” are invoked by
magnetism to lend their loud-speaking aid.
After Fifty Tears
A comparison of the foregoing matter with the
particulars we have gathered into Sections iv and v
of this book will support our suggestion that the
writer of The Masters and the Path has purposely
retraced, though with a firmer hand and an air
of originality, the faint and disconnected outlines
of subjects touched upon fifty years before in The
Letters. The personal traits of the Masters are care­
fully retained, but are enlarged almost to heroic
proportions, doubtless to fit them for the greater
tasks of the time.
To speak first of Master Morya, the Hyde Park
cavalcade of 1851 is not mentioned in The Letters,
but the first encounter between H.P.B. and her
“guide”, by the waters of the Serpentine at night,
290
The Theosophical Superstructure
is recorded in Sinnett’s biographical Incidents and
Besant’s H.P.B. In The Letters the Rajput’s princely
airs are less emphasized than his more homely
traits. Mr. Sinnett, it is true, once addressed him
as “Illustrious”, and the word clung to him for
years; he also described M. to K.H. as “an im­
perious sort of chap”, and was not allowed to
forget the phrase. Mr. Leadbeater is clairvoyantly
struck by the same characteristic, and uses the •
same word—“imperious”.
After the American era, M. was generally called
“the Boss” by his pupil H.P.B., and in moments of
effusion (says K.H.) “she has made of M. an
Apollo of Belvedere, the glowing description of
whose physical beauty, made him more than once
start in anger, and break his pipe while swearing
like a true—Christian” (p. 313). In body M. is
“bulky”, in temper “laughing” and “brusque”, in
attainments he is no scholar and hates writing—so
much so that he does it badly, as the MSS. show.
K.H. does not appear from Mr. Leadbeater’s
account to have been in the procession of Princes
to the Crystal Palace in 1851, yet the Letters tell
us he was a tireless horseman in the steep defiles
of Tibet, and so they prepare us for introduction
to the big brown bay of to-day. K.H.’s home is
mentioned twice in the Mahatma Letters and once
by H.P.B., but the veils of secrecy and modesty
obscure its site and its interior comforts. Indeed,
most of the references to the Masters’ abodes go
to form the idea of simple and almost stoical
retreats, suited to the habits of unworldly philo-
291
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
sophers. We confess we wondered, on first reading
about them, what accommodation there was for
the large class of “young and innocent chelas”, the
great dictionaries and the extensive libraries men­
tioned in the Letters, but now that we learn,
through Mr. Leadbeater’s clairvoyant survey, of
the capacity and contents of the Master’s bungalow
and its subterranean chambers, everything becomes
clear. Here is given the very plan of it, with the
students’ benches and the Master’s arm-chair.
We remember, too, that it was here that M., as
deputy correspondent with A.P.S., once occupied
the house, and wrote therefrom Letter xiii, in
full view of “the iceberg now before me, in our
K.H.’s home” (p. 76)—which, strange to say, has
melted from the scene in C.W.L.’s picture. It was
here also that this Mahatma, taking the advantage
of the presence of a keyboard, illustrated an argu­
ment in “Septenary Cosmogony” with the following
musical simile: “Go to your forte-piano and
execute upon the lower register of keys the seven
notes of the lower octave—up and down. Begin
pianipiano: crescendo from the first key and having
struck fortissimo on the last lower note go back
diminuendo getting out of your last note a hardly
perceptible sound—morendopianissimi. The first and
the last notes will represent to you the first and
last spheres, in the cycle of evolution the highest!
The one you strike once is our planet. Remember
you have to reverse the order on the forte-piano:*
* Evidently the three-manual “organ” had not yet been built in
the bungalow.
292
The Theosophical Superstructure
begin with the seventh note, not with the first.”
Is not Master Morya in rather deep waters in
using these “Western” musical terms? He seems
to admit they are not part of his own knowledge
when he adds: (“as I luckily for my illustration
find it printed in one of the musick pieces in K.H.’s
old portmanteau”.) Why not “portfolio” for
“musick pieces”, if we may be so bold as to ask?
As for the illustration itself, since we can hardly
make sense of its literal terms, still less can we grasp
the “septenary cosmogony” it is intended to make
clear.
An Illusive Chela
Let us now give some facts of fifty years ago relating
to Djwal Kul, the third now living Master, known
to us formerly as K.H.’s Tibetan Chela. He is first
mentioned in the Letters as a transmitter of mes­
sages from India to Tibet (p. 66) and appears next
as “D.J.K.”, handy with a compass and pen in
drawing for his Master an explanatory diagram
of the Septenary Cosmogony (p. 86). Soon after the
publication of The Occult World he appears again
as the writer or precipitator of the first six of the
Mahatma Letters, in which connection he is charged
by K.H. with having foolishly invented, as half a
nom deplume, the words “Lai Singh” in his master’s
signature, and writes what will be remembered as
the fatal “Kiddle Letter” (p. 364).
D.K. is called “Juala Khool” by Master Morya,
and under the safe nom de plume of “Reviewer”,
293
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
was authorized to write a few notes in The Theo-
sophist in answer to an article by Mr. Oxley (p. 270).
He accordingly does so in Letter cxxv, restoring
to his Master the rejected suffix of “Lai Singh”,
but writing it in the hand of Damodar! D.K.’s
letter is signed “Gjual-Khool m x x x ” , which might
seem to be the true spelling of his name, had it
not been written six or more other ways by his
Masters (pp. 453 -4) and as many by H.P.B. K.H.
had apparently received criticism on the score of
this extraordinary variety, hence he tries to settle
the point in Letter liii: “The second letter, I
think, was thrown on his table by Dj. Khool (the
real spelling of whose name is Gjual, but not so
phonetically”) (p. 298).
Djwal Kul’s last-mentioned feat in The Mahatma
Letters was an astral penetration of the bulwarks of
the SS. Clan Drummond and an appearance in
Madame Blavatsky’s cabin at sea ex Algiers, when
he asked for a piece of paper and wrote a letter for
his Master to Mr. Sinnett (p. 467). From The
Blavatsky Letters we learn that this Oriental Will-
o’-the-wisp paid similar astral visits to Madame
Blavatsky and the Countess Wachtmeister in
their European abodes, much to the amazement
of the former’s clairaudient but not clairvoyant
nurse.
So much for Gjual Khool, as we find him in
“the basis” ; as already said, he has his higher place
in “the Superstructure”. Since no one but H.P.B.
has ever professed to have seen this Chela face to
face, and since the only letter over his signature
294
The Theosophical Superstructure
is written in the known hand of Damodar the
“Desinherited”, it is evident what useful material
support Mr. Leadbeater has given to his dubious
existence by recognizing him clairvoyantly as
now a Master in Tibet, and holding pleasant
conferences with him on the roof of Adyar Head­
quarters.
Farewells
It is enough. A very large but quite needless book
might be written to show how from every leaf
of the Mahatma Letters the seeds of falsity have
for years been scattered into unguarded intellectual
ground, so that fields properly apportioned to
Religion, Philosophy, and Science have grown up
into a Theosophical jungle, in which lurk foes as
dangerous to the mind as are snakes and man-
eaters to the body. But further than this we must
not moralize on the spectacle revealed in this
Section, for it is now our duty to part company
with the Mahatmas, and dismiss them—in K.H.’s
own phrase—to their “kingdom of silence once
more”.
Truth to tell, the Tibetan Brothers made their
virtual exit as long ago as the year 1884. Morya
took his leave, we think, soon after the Piccadilly
seance at Sam Ward’s rooms, and Koot Hoomi’s
last letter reached London some time in the
following year, and reminded Mr. Sinnett
that the state of Madame Blavatsky’s health and
other conditions portended the close of the corre­
spondence.
295
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
In the public lectures of his closing career the
venerable Mr. Sinnett used to speak of “my lofty
friends” and their continued guidance.
Readers of Our Mutual Friend will remember how
two creations of the genius of Charles Dickens
played parts of mischief in that interesting story.
After the exposure of their frauds, Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Lammell were observed from a balcony
walking arm in arm down the street; they turned a
corner and were never seen again. Just such a
sudden and final disappearance do we wish for
our no less fictional Mahatmas. Their end cannot
be tragical, for their career was a sort of comedy,
and to be found out was their proper fate and
sufficient punishment. We have no cause to be
angry with them, for after all, they did not write
the Mahatma Letters. Like marionettes mani­
pulated by invisible strings, they strutted and
capered for fifty years on the Theosophical stage,
and the big words uttered from their little bodies
passed current for verity in the world’s five conti­
nents. They fascinated, instructed and deceived us;
moreover, they have since amused us in days that
were dark. Therefore we owe them some gratitude,
not only for their entertainment, but for the profit­
able companionship of the amiable members of
Theosophical Society whom they drew together to
witness it. They introduced us to many whom
we hope to count upon as life-long friends,
and to none whom we can think of as enemies.
296
The Theosophical Superstructure
The Curtain Falls
“It seems to me”, wrote the Countess Wachtmeister
to Mr. Sinnett in January, 1886, “that it is time
now to hang a veil before the Mahatmas” (B.L.,
p. 280). With this opinion we agree, though in a
different sense from that implied by the lady, and
we hope that our labours throughout this book
have helped to weave a curtain that will effectually
prevent such a play as we have witnessed ever being
acted again.
So much for the players and the play; but what
shall be said of the playwright? Truly, her career
was no comedy; even as we read it in the feigned
passion and dispassion of The Mahatma Letters, it
was a perilous pretence; while in The Blavatsky
Letters it was a tragedy too dark for scorn, too
human to excite no pity. Yet, in a little while, the
curtain must cover her, too. “He who lives more
lives than one, more deaths than one must die,”
writes ? modern poet. Having enjoyed a second
life in her creations, in their death Madame
Blavatsky has earned a second death. It is sad, but it
had to be.
297
S E C T I O N X X
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
B e f o r e we carry our work to its final stage, it will
be convenient to interpose a brief summary of the
facts and arguments brought forward in the previous
Sections. In the course of our examination of mis­
cellaneous publications and scattered documentary
references we have traced the sources and develop­
ment of the alleged Mahatmic revelations in the
following series of events:
1. The existence of the Mahatmas (under the
title of “Brothers”) as guides, protectors and
teachers of Madame Blavatsky, was privately
made known to her relations, friends and
philosophical associates prior to the formation
of the Theosophical Society in 1875. The first
extant letter from a supposed Tibetan Master,
addressed to H.P.B.’s relations at Odessa, is
dated on arrival November 11, 1870, and the
letters of “Serapis”, an Egyptian Brother, were
communicated to Colonel Olcott in 1875.
2. In the sixth year of the Society (1881) the exis­
tence in Tibet of the two Indian Mahatmas was
publicly announced by Mr. Sinnett in The
Occult World, and parts of letters from one of
them to him were printed.
3. In the seventh year of the Society (1882) the
substance of the philosophical system attri-
298
Summary and Conclusion
buted to the two Mahatmas, derived from a
series of letters received by Mr. Sinnett, was
published by him in Esoteric Buddhism.
4. Letters signed by the Mahatmas were received
by Mr. Sinnett until the tenth year of the
Society (1885) when the communications
abruptly ceased. Meanwhile, in spite of sus­
picions and denials in certain quarters, the
existence of the Mahatmas was emphatically
affirmed, and Madame Blavatsky constantly
asserted, in public and private, her close touch
with them, and her dependence on them for her
official status, occult knowledge and literary
productions.
5. In the eleventh year of the Society (1886)
Madame Blavatsky published The Secret Doc­
trine (Vols. 1and n) written by her in retirement
in Germany, in which she reaffirmed the
existence and authority of the Mahatmas as
wise and secret teachers of herself and others,
and included extracts from letters attributed
to them.
6. In the forty-eighth year of the Society (1923) a
small number of the Mahatmas’ Letters which
had been preserved at the Theosophical
Society’s headquarters, were published under
the title Early Teachings of the Masters. A few
months later a complete collection of the
Letters received by the late A. P. Sinnett was
published in London as an unofficial compilation
by Mr. A. T. Barker.
7. The appearance of the complete text of the
299
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
early and private teaching gave the first public
knowledge of the inner history of the Theo-
sophical Society and of the sources and develop­
ment of its doctrine, and made possible a critical
study of the Mahatma Letters and the solution
of the vexed problem of their genuineness.
8. The examination of The Mahatma Letters under­
taken by us resulted in the collection of every
available personal particular concerning their
alleged authors, also in obtaining a general
view of their teachings in religion, science and
philosophy, and in making a study of their
literary style and the manner of delivery of
their communications. On each of these points
the claim for the Mahatmas’ authorship of the
Letters appeared to us to fail.
9. The publication in 1924 of The Blavatsky Letters
together with the concurrent appearance in
The Theosophist of miscellaneous remains of
Madame Blavatsky, afforded the first oppor­
tunity for a comparison of the styles of the
known and the unknown writers, resulting in
proofs, too numerous and strong to ignore, that
the Mahatma Letters were spurious, and were
written by Madame Blavatsky. To this demon­
stration we were able to add the proof, from the
examination of the manuscripts, that the hand­
writing and stationery of the Letters told
externally the same tale as their literary
contents.
10. Finally, we adduce four notable admissions by
Theosophical leaders tending to support our
300
Summary and Conclusion
conclusion. Madame Blavatsky confesses that
she did actually fabricate and attribute to the
Mahatmas a later series of letters. Mrs. Besant
and Mr. Sinnett both admit that H.P.B. was
the writer, though not the author, of the
Mahatma Letters, and Mr. Leadbeater states
that the Letters were not written by the
Mahatmas.
The Problem of Motive
It is often held to be incumbent upon one who
makes and sustains a charge of fraud that he should
proceed to reveal the motives by which the accused
person was actuated; and if he cannot do this, his
argument is liable to be regarded as inconclusive.
Madame Blavatsky has more than once profited
by the appeal to this test. Her accusers have been
called upon to show what benefit she could have
obtained by the practice of the suspected decep­
tions ; and as a rule they have failed to do so. We
may give an instance of this. Mr. Hodgson, of the
Society for Psychical Research, at the end of an
exhaustive enquiry into “the Indian phenomena”
and an adverse report upon them, allowed himself
to be drawn into the dangerous course of alleging a
motive. He could not explain the reason or reasons
for Madame Blavatsky’s actions. He therefore sup­
posed she was in India for some purpose other than
that she professed, and he fell back upon the already
repudiated thesis of the “Russian spy”. It was, we
think, an unnecessary and an unreasonable sug-
301
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
r
gestion. Madame Blavatsky and her “Masters”
were certainly mischief-makers in many spheres,
and at least practical jokers in some, but they
did not dabble very effectively in high politics. A
Russian spy would have been well paid from St.
Petersburg and well watched from Simla; Madame
Blavatsky was neglected by both. Moreover, it is
now clear that she would have had little time for
political spying if she wrote a hundred and twenty
Mahatma Letters and concurrently hundreds of
her own in four years, and edited the Theosophical
Magazines as well. Mr. Hodgson therefore spoiled
his case by this too simple explanation. For a single
political motive, such as he suggested, a score of
deep-rooted personal motives, conscious or uncon­
scious, might have been probed. To his damaging
Report on facts and discoveries at Adyar Head­
quarters, Mr. Hodgson would have had to add a
long exploration into the depths of a strange per­
sonality, and even then, we think, he would have
failed to pluck out the heart of her mystery.
When a task such as we have undertaken has been
duly performed, it is unlikely that we should admit
the obligation to append an inquiry into the mind
and motives of Madame Blavatsky, or allow that
without a further argument our case was incon­
clusive. Nevertheless, it is natural that both we
and our readers, having realized the implication
of the facts adduced, should turn upon and con­
template, perhaps with a new question in our
minds, the unique phenomenon of fifty years of
fraud which has been laid bare in these pages. Why,
302
Summary and Conclusion
one would ask, do people do this kind of thing in
the nineteenth and twentieth centuries? Whom
does it benefit, and in what way?
Three Suggested Motives
Having proved in these pages that Madame Blavat-
sky foisted an illiterate apocrypha upon the infant
Theosophical Society in 1880, and attempted
thereby to foist it upon the world, we propose
to satisfy inquirers as to her motives by making
three interpretative suggestions. First, we trace the
power-seeking motive as the original and main
cause of her deceptions; second, we note an animus
against Christianity, both exhibited and avowed,
which led her to the extremity of abuse and to
tactics of opposition void of moral scruple; third,
we perceive that her earlier deceptions placed her
in positions which in time became untenable, so
that necessity compelled her to adopt greater and
more unabashed measures of defence.
It is clear to a reader of the sketches of Madame
Blavatsky’s life which have come down to us from
several friendly sources that she was from her
childhood a person of exceptionally strong and
independent character. Consequently it was in the
circle of her own relations that she first exercised
her extraordinary talents. It is therefore significant
as an interpretation of her later career that the
first “Mahatma Letter” which she produced should
have been one of merely domestic concern, suggest­
ing that while travelling abroad she was in receipt
303
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
of some kind of metaphysical favour and protec­
tion. This message would naturally herald her
return to Odessa with an accretion of personal
power, and would build up a reputation which it
was both desirable and necessary to maintain. Even
if we may speculate that this experiment in literary
imposture was Madame Blavatsky’s “first dis­
obedience”, it could not be her last; its success
would tempt her to repeat it, or its failure would
compel her to outdo it. Events proved that she did
one or the other, according to the predicament in
which she was placed.
The Anti-Christian Motive
Except for the fact that a strong bias against
Christianity was formally avowed and patently
exhibited in the public and private writings of
Madame Blavatsky, we would gladly have avoided
alleging it as a motive for some of her deceptive
practices; but because of its interpretative value
in respect of her character and our thesis, we must
trouble ourselves and our readers with its
presentation.
We assume from the fact of H.P.B.’s birth into
a Russian aristocratic family that she was a bap­
tized member of the Orthodox Eastern Church, and
familiar with its faith and doctrines. Her travels
in four continents would have given her oppor­
tunities enough of observing the active operations
of other religions of the world, and her literary
studies would have opened her mind to their
304
Summary and Conclusion
theoretical content. Yet, with this vast panorama
before her, not one religion came under her lash
save Christianity, and of the three organic divisions
of this religion, only one, the Orthodox Eastern,
was immune from her critical castigation. We hardly
deduce from the latter fact that Orthodoxy was her
first religious love, but it seems certain from her
writings that Roman Catholicism was the object of
her greatest hate, and that English and American
Protestantism came only a little way behind it as the
objects of her deepest scorn.
H.P.B.’s Own Avowal
We have said that a special animus against Chris­
tianity was officially avowed, a fact which we
would not have suspected and were surprised to
discover in a place no less authoritative than the
Preface to Isis Unveiled (p. xlvii).
After giving the historical facts as to the foun­
dation of the Theosophical Society, the Preface
reveals the existence of two objects subsidiary to
the three generally known. One was the intention
“to collect and disseminate among Christians
information about Oriental religions and philo­
sophy”. Inasmuch as this information, to be edify­
ing to Christians, would naturally consist of matter
creditable to the Orient, no complaint can be
made of the favour shown to them in the shape of
a mission for their enlightenment. But the Preface
goes on to disclose a much more startling object
than the one just mentioned, one which we cannot
305 u
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
think has been generally known to Theosophists, for
it is nothing less than a proposal to carry out an
anti-Christian propaganda in the Eastern countries
of the world. The seat of the movement, at the time
it was launched, was necessarily America, where
the founders lived, but its association with persons
living in the East was to accomplish its end. This the
remainder of the passage proves.
“Later, it has determined to spread among the
‘poor benighted heathen’ such evidences as to the
practical results of Christianity as will at least give
both sides of the story to the communities among
which missionaries are at work. With this view it
has established relations with associations and indi­
viduals throughout the East, to whom it furnishes
authenticated reports of the Ecclesiastical crimes
and misdemeanours, schisms and heresies, con­
troversies and litigations, doctrinal differences and
biblical criticisms and reviews with which the press
of Christian Europe [not America?] constantly
teems” . . . “The Theosophical Society thought
it simple justice to make the facts known in Pales­
tine, India, Ceylon, Cashmere, Tartary, Thibet,
China and Japan.”
An Untheosophical Object
If the above paragraph does not speak for itself,
and calls for any comment from us, it should at
least be noted that the Society which professed to
see “some good” in all the religions and philosophies
of the world, and inscribed “Universal Brother-
306
Summary and Conclusion
hood” on its banners, proposed, in the second year
of its existence, to start two separate missions. One
was at least a harmless endeavour to enlighten
Western Christians as to the good qualities of the
less known Oriental faiths, and the other was a
plan to furnish the minds of no less ignorant
Orientals with every procurable piece of informa­
tion damaging to Christianity, its churches and its
operations; to give details of every crime, every
unsavoury scandal, every controversy and dis­
creditable division that could be raked up from
the none too clean “press of Christian Europe”—
but not of America—and to shoot it on the “be­
nighted” and perhaps gratified Eastern continent.
Truly, the proposal strikes us, to say the least, as
quite untheosophical, but we can imagine other
readers being less struck than we are with its theo­
retical inconsistency, and more so with its evident
spirit of partiality, irresponsibility, mischief and
malice.
We have said that the passage from the Isis
Preface is in our view interpretative of the mind
of Madame Blavatsky. Indeed, if we had read it
in any place unsigned, our intuition would have
recognized it as hers, for it is unmistakably pro­
phetic of the spirit of controversial muck-raking
displayed alike in the Mahatma and Blavatsky
Letters.
307
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
The Asiatic Campaign
We have not found in Theosophical history—apart
from a bare mention of an alleged “order of the
Master” in the E.H.T.S.—any explanation of the
transfer of the founders’ operations from America
to India. It is reasonable to suppose, however,
that the “later determination” announced in Isis
was its pretext and purpose, and that the way for
it was opened, by some response from the East,
for the new Asiatic campaign.
The Blavatsky and Mahatma Letters make fre­
quent and very bitter comments on the conflicts
which arose between the pioneer Theosophists and
Christian missionaries, but they throw very little
light on the practical side of the projected counter­
operations in the mission fields. Nevertheless we
cannot fail to learn from reading them that they
fulfil as far as letters can the programme outlined
in the Isis Preface. Two or three passages may be
quoted to show the leaders exchanging confidences
on this aspect of their work.
Colonel Olcott writes to H.P.B. reporting on his
visits to Ceylon in company with Mr. C. W. Lead-
beater. “Now I take L----- to see how he will rub
on with them. He is simply a village curate out
on a ‘bust’ and never will expand beyond that.
. . . However, as an ex-Padri he will pass there,
and he certainly will not be scheming to upset the
T.S. and found a new Dispensation” (B.L., p. 327).
“I take Leadbeater to Ceylon via Tubicorin”
(p. 330). “There was a great crowd here on Satur-
308
Summary and Conclusion
day evening to hear his experiences. He goes the
whole figure for Bmand against Xty” ! (p. 334).
“He will not be scheming to upset the T.S. and
found a new dispensation”, writes the Colonel.
Will he not? Give him time and an approving
President, and he will attempt these very things.
Little did the reforming founders imagine that in
after years, when, like King Hezekiah, they “slept
with their fathers”, Bishop Leadbeater and Dr.
Besant would reign in their stead, and build up
again the high places which they had destroyed,
rear up altars for Christ, revise the Mass, and re­
ordinate the Christian priesthood.
A Draft Prospectus
After she was relieved of her official cares in
order to write The Secret Doctrine, H.P.B. from time
to time informed Mr. Sinnett as to the progress
of the work. “I am hard on S.D. What will come
out of it I do not know but facts, facts and facts
are heaped in it all relating to Christian robbery and
and theft” (B.L., p. 160).
We are not concerned with what came out of
The Secret Doctrine; it is enough for the present to
note what the writer professed to have put into it,
and with what zest she reported to her associates
the heaps of facts she had collected to the dis­
credit of Christianity, not now for the exclusive
enjoyment of the “benighted” East, but for the
enlightenment of the whole world.
Needless to say we are not recounting these in-
309
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters
stances of passionate prejudice against Christianity
in order to excite sympathy for it or to raise resent­
ment against one of its foes. Our object is to show
that in making her private feelings and opinions
seem to come from the minds and pens of the
Mahatmas, Madame Blavatsky was escaping per­
sonal responsibility for their unscrupulous tone,
and at the same time increasing their power over
the minds and her readers and adherents. This
would have been her motive in employing them in
such a way.
The Motive of Necessity
Our readers may have observed that the motives of
personal power and bias against Christianity, the
operations of which we have barely sketched, are
much akin, and it will eventually appear that they
both became merged into and swallowed up by
the third motive we have to mention—that of
Necessity. We assume it to be a matter of general
observation that any act which, because of its
evil nature, the person committing it does not wish
to be known, may require as a consequence the
committal of another or a series of similar acts,
in order to keep it continually cloaked. Thus a first
falsehood may involve a train of falsehood, one
fraud may call for more frauds, and one murder
for many murders. The terrible necessity of going
on is ever present to the mind of the wrong-doer
who does not dare to go back; and this is more so
in proportion to the seeming good he has enjoyed
or done on the strength of his evil deeds.
310
Summary and Conclusion
“ I am in blood
Stepp’d in so far that, should I wade no more,
Returning were as tedious as go o’er.”
So speaks Macbeth in the mid-career of crime;
and if we change “blood” to “fraud”, so, in our
reading of her story, speaks Madame Blavatsky.
We have described the literary deceit she practised
on her relations in 1870 as her “first disobedience”.
Upon whom, five years later, did she practise her
second, assuming that her pen was honourably
occupied in the interval? It was “on the nose” of
Colonel Olcott that she precipitated (by what means
we are not told) the moralistic juvenilia of the
“Luxor Letters”, which she said the Egyptian
Brethren thought “good enough for the green
Americans”. Unhappily, one of this class was
thoroughly taken in. If, as the context warrants us
in thinking, the experiment was at first a financial
expedient or even a joke, its success was a moral
misadventure, for it committed “Serapis”, said to
be one of the wise and grave members of the Nile
Lodge, to signing some of the most nonsensical and
sordid epistles in Theosophical history. Doubtless
there was strong necessity behind these means
taken to secure the adherence of the Colonel, and
the Luxor Letters seem to have clinched his
conversion.
In due time the co-founders sailed to India, and
brought their phenomena to bear upon the mind
of Mr. A. P. Sinnett, an Anglo-Indian editor who
thought himself any colour but “green” ; he proved,
3 ”
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
as our pages show, as credulous as the American
Colonel, and a far more efficient agent in the
consummation of the subsequent world-wide im­
posture. First came the exhibitions of parlour
magic, then the talk about “the Brothers” as the
powers behind it, then the suggestion that they
would write letters if properly approached, then
the first Letter. This necessary Indian literary
deceit having hit its mark as truly as the Egyptian
shaft, necessity called for seven or eight more,
each one helping to make good the claims of its
forerunners; and once the Mahatmas’ existence
had been firmly established in Mr. Sinnett’s mind
and their Letters indelibly printed in the London
press, the remaining ten years of their inventor’s
life were fatally pledged to the necessary production
of a hundred more illiterate epistles, the elabora­
tion of personal, official, domestic and mechanical
deceits, and the employment of innocent or guilty
participants in her operations. It needs no argu­
ment from us to establish these facts. It is enough
to read the two collections of Letters herein noticed
to realize in imagination the pathetic plight of
“The Old Lady” perpetually dodging small dis­
coveries and planning new strategies in her
struggles with the intellectual and moral worlds
she had challenged, provoked and defied. Her
worst agony was that she could not “return”,
confess her fault, obtain forgiveness, and lose her
dubious gains; she must “go o’er” to keep them.
312
Summary and Conclusion
The Heel of Achilles
Seeing that we have speculated in the foregoing
pages of this Section on the motives that may have
prompted the Theosophical foundress to her ques­
tionable acts, we owe it to her, as well as to our
readers, to say that these small satisfactions of per­
sonal power, sectarian antipathy and safety could
not have been the sole objects ofher life. There must
have been present to her mind the desire to serve
some greater cause, the triumph of which she calcu­
lated would extenuate and ultimately efface her
misdeeds. This cause was the spread of the doctrines
of Theosophy throughout the world.
The close acquaintance with the mind of Madame
Blavatsky which we have gained in the course ofour
researches leads us to conclude that the ideal which
she made the object of her endeavour was not an
ignoble one, and that her enthusiasm for its service
was for the most part genuine. She threw her extra­
ordinary abilities with a consuming zeal into the
construction of a synthesis of human knowledge in
the departments of religion, science and philosophy,
and it is probable that she hoped, as a consequence
of producing an intellectual accord among thinking
people, to bring about some approach to a uni­
versal social order. This at least was the clear
implication of the original Theosophical doctrine,
and the broad conception of it held by many of her
earlier associates and later adherents, as well as
by those who respected but didnotshare theirbeliefs.
It is perhaps necessary to say that in the promo-
313
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters ?
tion of these general aims, Madame Blavatsky was
by no means first in the universal field. Ancient
and modern times had seen the birth of men who
thought it not impious to take all knowledge for
their province, and many philosophical systems
had been built up which became potent instruments
of human enlightenment and progress. Yet there
was one claim advanced on behalf of the Theo-
sophical synthesis which, if not historically unique,
was certainly distinctive in character. This was that
its main propositions had not been constructed out
of the studies and unaided cogitations of their
propounder, Madame Blavatsky, but were gratui­
tously communicated to her from a lodge of
remote-dwelling sages. This was a startling claim;
for if it could be made good, it guaranteed
the authority, continuity and truth of the Theo-
sophical doctrine; but if it could not be made good,
it was an element of weakness and danger, which
might yet prove to be the “Achilles Heel” of the
system.
Twenty-five years after the foundation of the
Theosophical Society, Madame Blavatsky died, and
her work and literary remains were surrendered to
her successors. If the Mahatmas, or “Masters”, as
they were now called, had any further teachings
to communicate, they had but to appoint new
initiate operators, “at the other end of the line”,
to receive them. We are given to understand in
the post-Blavatsky writings that this was done, and
we have in a previous Section sketched the literary
outcome of the alleged collaboration.
3i4
Summary and Conclusion
The next quarter of a century had more critical
events in store for the Society. Mr. A. P. Sinnett,
the receiver and possessor of the original Mahatma
Letters, and perhaps the only person at the time
familiar with their whole contents, died in the
year 1921, and by a legacy made optional their
publication to the world. The Mahatma Letters
consequently came from the press some time
before the year of Theosophical Jubilee in 1925,
and they were put forth by their compiler as an
act of faith in and loyalty to Madame Blavatsky
and their reputed writers.
The Opening of the Seals
We remarked at the beginning of this book that the
full text of The Mahatma Letters received at its
publication little notice in the press, and was
practically ignored by the journals of the Theo­
sophical Society. We do not infer from this silence
that the Letters in their complete form have not
been read by Theosophical officials. On the con­
trary, we believe they have been carefully studied,
and we can only interpret the reserve shown in
regard to them as due, not to indifference, but to
a true appreciation of their startling character and
contents.
Although the Mahatma Letters, so far as we have
observed, have not been read aloud from Theo­
sophical housetops, nor analysed in the journals,
nor studied in the Lodges, it is impossible to
believe that the large number of reprints of them
315
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
that have come from the press have not found
thousands of quiet readers, whose ears and under­
standings have been open the while to the whisper
of solitary reasoning. What, we wonder, have been
the thoughts of these readers who, by the mere
possession of a copy of a book, participate in the
opening of the seals of the greatest literary mystery
of modern times?
The Seals of the Mystery
The seals of the Mahatma mystery, which from the
beginning have held the truth in bonds, and frus­
trated the endeavours of those who would have
released it, are, according to our observation, four
in number, and to them we assign the names of
Falsity, Secrecy, Sophistry and Power. In the order
of time, the seal of Falsity was the first affixed, and
it was to the end of reinforcing its failing hold that
the other three were added as required. It was for
this reason that the ancient and oft-employed seal
of Secrecy was the second to be affixed. Falsity’s
face was in due time veiled, and effrontery, which
had sufficed to overbear the intelligence of an
intimate few, gave place to Secrecy, which was
more suited to convince the distributed many.
Although the seal of Secrecy was used to hide
the face and the works of Falsity, it must be said
that the great body of the keepers of the Mahatmic
secrets were not themselves dishonest. Though
deceived, they were not deceivers. If they were
credulous, incurious or indifferent to a remarkable
316
Summary and Conclusion
degree, they were yet amiable, enthusiastic and
well-intentioned converts to a new theory of life,
and eager to bring others under the persuasions
that had convinced themselves. Exceptions ought to
be made, however, in the cases of individuals who
—granting they were at first deceived—committed
themselves too deeply to Falsity’s claims, and when
later they were undeceived, were reluctant to un­
deceive others. They either made no acknowledg­
ment of the light they had received, or they made
it, like Mr. Sinnett, too late, like Mr. Jinarajadasa,
too vaguely, or like Mr. Leadbeater, too secretly.
If Mr. Sinnett had bequeathed the Mahatma
Letters to the Society whose leaders doubtless
thought they were entitled to possess them, they
would by this time be lying among the archives in
Adyar, in the place whence most of them originally
came. Their flights across the world’s waters,
outward and home, would be ended, secrecy would
have shut them in, and their falsity would have
remained unproved to this day. This, although it
was the acknowledged desire of the Theosophical
heads, was not to be their fate. Mr. Sinnett pre­
ferred to dispose of the Letters in such a way as
to make possible their publication and critical
examination. Mr. Barker, the careful compiler,
himself opened the seal of Secrecy, and made it
possible for us to open the innermost seal of Falsity.
Of the two remaining seals, Sophistry and
Power, we need say but little. While the fact of
Falsity remained unproved, the role of Sophistry
was an important one, for it was constantly em-
3i7
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
ployed in warding off, with fallacious arguments,
persistent evasions and personal abuse, the ques­
tions and honest doubts ofdisciples ofthe Mahatmas
in the Society and of critics in the outer world.
In the order of time the last seal to be affixed
to the Mahatma mystery was the seal of Power,
which was the consummation and official counter­
seal of the other three. A succession of leaders
who claimed exclusive access to the Mahatmas’
teachings, and were consequently their sole inter­
preters, were credited by their devoted adherents
with possessing occult knowledge in abundant
measure and in a constant flow. Being screened by
Secrecy in their consultations with the supposed
oracles, they naturally acquired stupendous per­
sonal repute, in proportion as they were admired,
trusted and obeyed by those who stood in the
outer courts. Power was thus based on false claims
and foolish concessions, and having been the last
seal of the mystery to be affixed, it will probably
be the last to be removed. For although its foun­
dation is now virtually gone from under it, it will
require time for this fact to be realized, and for the
self-imposed coils of credence to be unwound from
the minds of multitudes of adherents in the world’s
five continents.
Whether the seal of Power will be finally broken
early or late, its strength must henceforward
decrease, for while it was a hard enough matter
to bind it on in the name of a hidden mystery, it
cannot but be harder to maintain it in view of a
now proved imposture.
3j8
Consummation est
We have finished the work we set out to do. Our
object was to solve a long-standing and important
literary problem, and our method was to ask a
plain question and to support our answer to it by
as clear a demonstration of its truth as we could
make. Having resolved at the beginning to examine
the Mahatma Letters without prejudice in favour
of a particular conclusion, and proposed—as indi­
cated on our title page—to sail on uncharted seas
towards no actual or hypothetical port, we found
ourselves carried, as we read on, in an unescapable
dialectical drift. We had before us no design to
impugn the conduct of individuals, to raise un­
friendly contentions in or against corporate
societies, or to oppose or defend particular teach­
ings, religions and philosophies. Our argumentative
course was shaped for us by a single principle—
the contents of the Letters—and we reached our
destination, as we believe, in obedience to a logic
that was irresistible. We are glad to find, in con­
cluding this undertaking, that in respect of tactics
our voyage has been successfully conducted under
the advice of Plato, best of pilots, who in his
Republic so happily lays down the guiding principle
for every truth-seeking and truth-finding adven­
ture: “Whither the argument, like a wind, takes us,
thither we must go.”
3i9
I N D E X
A
Adwaitee, 103
Adyar, Madras, 22
Akasic Library, 48
“Alcyone,” 285
Allahabad, 33, 42
American style, 118
Ammonius Saccas, 72
Amritsar, 41
Anatta doctrine, 113
Anti-Blavatsky, 207
Anti-Christian motive, 304
Anti-feminism, 206
Apuleius, 98
Arundale, Francesca, 23
“Astral Post,” 26
Authors’ thanks to the Mahat­
mas, 296
Authors’ theory of handwriting,
244
B
“Back to Blavatsky” movement,
286
Bacon quoted, 16, 57, 68
Bacon-Shakespeare mystery, 141
Banner of Light, 143
Barker, A. T., 25
Baseden Butt, 214
Beal’s Catena quoted and mis­
quoted, 109
Besant, Mrs. Annie, 19, 213
her admission of “the well-
known Script,” 263
her part in the Superstructure,
283
Bhagavad Gita, 98
Bhola Deva Sarmi and Bowaji,
243
Bible, The, 201
Birth Stories of the Buddha, 99
Blavatsky, Madame H. P.,passim
arrives at Simla, 27
her education, 37
in New York, 74
on the “Kiddle Incident,” 154
on Precipitation, 155
as forwarding agent, 172
her style compared, 176-85
Franco-English parallels, 186
her Biblical references, 199
her masculine disguise, 205
criticizes herself, 207
did she visit Tibet? 211
Odessa Letter, 213, 245, 249
her Letter to The Times, 234
her sister’s letter, 244
her defence, 252
threatens to retire, 255
discussesfraud and forgery, 258
at bay, 267
her mastery of English, 272
her “second death,” 297
her motives, 301
her early travels, 303
Blavatsky, hypothesis formu­
lated, 165
Bodhisattvas, 109
Boehme, 72
Books resting on the Masters, 278
Brahman, 103
Brotherhood—
Tibetan, 43
Universal, 63, 73, 306
Egyptian, 298
Buddha, a “Planetary Spirit,” 81
Buddhism corrupted, 105
Buddhist Liberal Catholics, 279
C
Chesney, Colonel, 52
Chohan, 34, 39
321 X
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Christianity, 303
Cicero, 49
Clairvoyant faculties, 43
Compton-Rickett, L. A., 30
Consummation est, 203
Contradictions of Sinnett, 45
Correction in Sinnett’s text, 24
Cosmic Scroll, The, 48
Cosmological Queries, 85, 277
Coulomb, Madame, 247
Criticism of Isis, 76
Cross on the letter M, 227
D
Dalai Lama, 39
Damodar Mavalanka, 23
his disappearance, 221
is he also Gjiral Kool? 223
he is “Desinherited,” 295
Darjeeling, 41
Dawn, Sydney, N.S.W., 260
Deletions and corrections in
Early Teachings, 23
Denial by Sinnett of similarity
in style, 173
Denial of God, 87
“Desinherited, The,” 295
Devachan, 108
Devanagarl, 241
D’Holbach, Baron, 47
Dhyan Chohans, 7
Dictionaries, 46, 290
Djual Kool, 51, 288, 293
his name spelled eight ways,
198
Dog-Latin, The Mahatmas’, 125
E
Early Teachings of the Masters, 17,
22
deletions and corrections in, 23
criticized by Compton-Rickett,
3°
Eckhart, 72
Eclectic branch of the T.S., 40
Eglington, 226, 229, 239
Egypt, 178
Elberfeld, 140, 141
English, 273
Esoteric Buddhism, 16
errors in, 68
Ether, 48
Eusebius, 72
F
Facsimile Letter by K.H., 246
Faulty Devanagarl, 241
Feats of Endurance, Mahatmas’,
40«
First Eight Letters examined, 56
First Letter from K.H., 28
Franco-English parallels, 186-7
Fraud and forgery, 258
“Frenchified,” 183
G
Gharling-Cho, 34
Globes, Seven, 85
God, 87
Grandison, 191, 195
Great Cycle, The, 82
H
Handwriting, authors’ theory
on, 244
Handwriting of the Mahatmas,
226
Happy Valley described, 288
Hare, W. Loftus, 20
Hartmann, Franz, Letter to, 246
Hilarion, Master, 250
Himalayas, 129
Hodgson, Richard, 267, 301
Hodgson’s examination of the
Letters, 270, 302
H.P.B. and the Masters of the
Wisdom, 211
Hubbe Schleiden, 271
Hume, A. O., 22, 33, 254
322
I
Index
Iamblichus, 98
“Ideas,” 150
“If there be no Mahatmas----- ,”
257
Incidents in the Life of Madame
Blavatsky, 37
Indian Philosophy, 101
Infallibility of the Mahatmas, 43
Isis Unveiled, 16, 76
J
Jhelum telegram. The, 41
Jinarajadasa, Mr., 47
on Precipitation, 128
Judge, W. Q.., 264
K
Karma, 69, 114
Kashmir, 41
Key-words in Blavatsky and the
Mahatmas’ Letters, 176
K.H. Letter in facsimile, 248
Kiddle Incident, The, 14.0-61
Blavatsky on, 154
Kingsford, Mrs. Anna, 94-208
Kin-te, Book of, 46
Knight, George, on Tibet, 38
Knowledge of French by Mahat­
mas, 116
Koot Hoomi, Mahatma, passim
his first letter, 28
his signatures, 231, 243
facsimile of letter by, 248
Leadbeater’s account of, 287
his disappearance, 295
Krishnamurti, J., 285
L
Lamasery of Ghaling-Tcho, 34
Last doubts of Sinnett, 266
Leadbeater, C. W., 19-23
admits Letters not written by
Mahatmas, 265
Leadbeater, C. W.—cont.
his Lives ofAlcyone, 285
describesMahatmas’home, 289
Letters in detail examined, 230
Letters of H. P. Blavatsky to
A. P. Sinnett, 17-22
Lhasa, variously spelled, 36
Liability of Mahatmas to err, 45
Liberties with proper names, 197
Libraries of the Mahatmas, 46
Life ofAnna Kingsford, 95
London Lodge, 15
Luxor Lodge, 178
M
Madame at bay, 267
Mahachohan, 279
Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett,
The, passim, 15-22
date of publication, 23
little public interest in, 29
official disapproval of, 30
MSS. of, examined in detail,
230
Summary conclusion on, 298
Mahatmas, passim
are Indians, not Tibetans, 37
their feats of endurance, 4.0
their infallibility, 43
their attributes, 44
their liability to err, 45
their libraries, 46
on Western Science, 47
seven portraits of, 50
their criticism of Isis, 76
their curiosity, 79
their denial of God, 87
they dismiss religion, 90
on Anna Kingsford, 93
on Indian Philosophy, 101
style not Oriental, 115
knowledge of French, 116
American style, 118
their Dog-Latin, 125
323
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Mahatmas—continued
on Precipitation, 127, 130, 159
on the Kiddle Letter, 140-61
no witnesses as to their reality,
167
on the Bible, 201
their anti-feminism, 206
anti-Blavatsky, 207
their handwriting, 226
the double M, 227
invented in America, 250
described by Leadbeater, 287
Mahavagga, 105
Maitland, Edward, 93
Malice and Necessity, 309
Man by a woman chela, 69
Manuscripts examined, 224-51
twenty-one writers, 226
the letter M, 227
signatures, 227, 241, 243
styles described, 228
letters in detail, 230
stationery employed, 240
faulty Devanagar!, 241
authors’theoryonhandwriting,
244-
reproduction forbidden, 246
a K.H. letterphotographed, 248
authors’ thanks to the Mahat­
mas, 296
Masculine disguise ofH.P.B., 205
Massey, C., 94
Masters and the Path, The, 287
Max Muller discredited by Ma­
hatmas, 102
Maya, meaning of, 104
McGovern, Dr., on Tibet, 38
Monier-Williams, 102
Moses, Stainton, 81
Motives examined, 301
Mountains of Tibet, 60
Moyra, Mahatma, passim
visits New York, 37
his handwriting discussed, 228
Music, 290
N
New York, 75, 169, 195, 271
No witnesses to the writers of the
Letters, 167
Numerical Structure of the Uni­
verse, 84
O
Occult Review, The, notice in, 34
Occult Science, 102
Occult World, The, 16, 56
published in 1881, 128
Odessa Letter of 1870, 2I3, 245,
249
Olcott, Col. H. S., passim
his criticism of Isis, 77
his “indiscretions,” 80
“Old Lady,” 60, 312
“Osmosis,” 33
P
Pai-Wouen-Yen-Fu Dictionary, 143
Paper, Tibetan, 133, 135
Parabrahm, 103
Paracelsus, 72
Parallel ofstyles, 116
Parallel versions of Oriental
Scripture, 106, h i
Paris, 79, 169
Peling, 40
Perfect Way, The, 40, g3
Perpetual Motion, 89
Phenomena at Simla, 33, 56
Philosophy, Indian, 101
Piccadilly seance, 239
Pioneer, The, ofAllahabad, 27,
paper abstracted, 235, 237
test, 219
Plagiarism, 140
Planetary Spirits, 81
Plato quoted, 150
Plutarch’s view of the soul, 11a
Poets misquoted, 122
Pope, Alexander, quoted, 29
3 24
Index
Porphyrius, 72
Portraits of the Mahatmas, 50
Postscript, 21
Precipitation, 127
first proposed by Sinnett, 57
fully discussed, 127
the Mahatma’sview, 127, 130,
159
Jinarajadasa on, 128
Summary of evidence, 138
Blavatsky on, 155
Preface, 15
Presidency of London Lodge, 15
Problem of Motive, The, 301
Psychic Research, 268
Punctuation erratic, 121
Pythagoras, 113
Q.
Queries answered, 85
“Quick communications,” 41
R
Reincarnation misunderstood, 91
denied in Isis, 92
affirmed by Kingsford, 93
denied by Mahatmas, 97
Religion dismissed by Mahatmas,
90
Report, Hodgson’s, 267, 301
Reproduction of Letters for­
bidden, 246
Rhys Davids, 105
“Rosetta Stone,” 146
Russian spy, 301
S
SacredBooks ofthe East, 101
Schmiechen, the German artist,
53
his portraits of Mahatmas,
facingpages 50, 62
Scientists quoted. List of, 47
Secret Doctrine, The, 16
term first used by Sinnett, 44
Septenary System, The, 83
Serapis, The Master, 59, 178, 249
Seven Globes, 85
Shakespeare-Bacon, 141
Shan munyih tung, 109
Shigatze, 39
Simla phenomena, 33, 56, 71
Sinnett, A. P., passim
his Occult World, 17, 25, 33
his Esoteric Buddhism, 17, 26
he seeks a sign, 27
first letter from K.H., 28
witnesses the Simla Pheno­
mena, 33, 56
his contradictions, 45
Editor of The Pioneer, Allaha­
bad, 57
on Precipitation, 127
the Kiddle Incident, 140
his last doubts on the Letters,
266
Skeptics, The, 253
Smoking Mahatma, The, 38
Stationery employed, 240
Style of Letters compared with
Blavatsky’s, 228
Subba Row, 232
Sukhavati, n o
Summary and Conclusions, 298
Swedenborg, 73
T
Tampering with the Mails, 61
Tathagata, n o
Telegram from Jhelum, 41, 42
Theosophia, the word and the
doctrine, 71
Theosophical Canon, The, 67
Theosophical Review, 38
Theosophical Society, The, pas­
sim
founded in New York 1875,
16
325
Who Wrote the Mahatma Letters?
Theosophical Society, The,Three
Objects, 73
Theosophical Superstructure, 275
the occult hierarchy, 275
constructing a cosmology, 277
Buddhist Liberal Catholics,
279
Mahatmic support to the T.S.,
281
Mrs. Besant’s part, 283
“Alcyone,” 285
Mr. Leadbeater to the rescue,
287
his Masters and the Path, 292
Farewells, 295
Theosophist, The, 17
Theosophy’s Old Testament, 75
Threatened retirement ofBlavat-
sky, 255
Tibet, Geography of, 36
map of,facingpage 36
Times, The, “Test,” 219
Blavatsky’s letter to, 234
Tobacco in Tibet prohibited, 38
The Smoking Mahatma, 38
To-ling Monastery, 56
Travers, Maude, 229
Twenty-one writers of MSS., 225
U
Universal Brotherhood, 28, 43,
63
Upanishads, 97
V
Vedanta, 102
W
Wachtmeister, Countess, 27, 296
Ward, Sam, 239
Western Science, 47
“Wisdom Religion, The,” 74
Z
Zelihovsky, Vera, 244
326
