{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__oxonian___thaumaturgia.pdf","mytitle":"Thaumaturgia","mylang":"de"}
•
THAUMATURGlA,
,,,
OR
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS.
BV
AN OXONIAN.
• Bombuteslr.ept the devil•a bird,
Shut in the pommel or hia IWord,
• And taught him all the conning pranlr.a,
Ofpaat and future monntebanlr.a.•
HMdi6r<U
LONDON:
EDWARD CHURTON, 26, HOLLES STREET.
JIDCCCXXXT.
o;, imd by Coogle
-
•
•
LONDON:
SCIIULZE Al~D CO. 13 POLAND STREET.
•
Digi '"d by Google
J
•
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
Demonology-The Devil, a most unaccountable person-
a~e-Who is he ?-His predilection for old women-
Traditions concerning evil spirits &c.
CHAPTER II.
Magic and Magical rites,
Jewish magi.
CHAPTER III.
Pace
14
32
On the several kinds of magic. 40
Augury, or divinations drawn from the flight and feed-
ing of birds. 46
Aruspices, or divinations drawn from brute or human
sacrifices. 49
Di\'isions of divination by the ancienta-pl'bdizies, etc. 51
CHAPTER IV.
History of Oracles-The principal oracles of antiquity. 54
The oracle of Jupiter Hammon. 55
'\o~~~·
etc.>
2-~·Qo()-;1
Ou ~c.,
(RECAP)
Digi '"d by Google
iv
• CONTENTS•
l'qe
The oracle of Delphos, or Pythian Apollo. • 57
Ceremonies practised on consulting oracles. • 58
Oracles often equivocal and obscure. · 61
Urim and Thummim. • 63
Reputation of oracles, bow lost. • ~
Cessation of oracles 66
Had demons any share in the oracles ? (,8
Of oracles, the artifices of priests of false divinities • 70
CHAPTER V.
The British Druids, or magi-Origin of fairies-Ancient
superstitions-Their skill in meiicine, etc. 75
The British magi. • 84
CHAPTER VI.
lEsculapian mysteries, etc. . • 91
CHAPTER VII.
Inferior deities attending mankind from their birth to
their decease. 96
CHAPTER VIII.
Judicial astrology-Ita chemir.al application to the
prolongation of life and health-Alchymical delu-
sions. · • 102
CHAPTER IX
Alchymlcal and astrological chimera. • 114
The Horoscope, a tale of the stars. 124
The Fated Parricide ; an oriental tale of the stars. 132
Digi '"d by Google
CONTBNTS. v
Pore
Application of astrology to the prolongation of life, etc. 137
Advertisement. 146
Spnng, Summer. } • . • 14!1
Autumn. influences of, 150
Of the winter quarter. . . . 152
CHAPTER X.
Oneirocritical presentiment, illustrating the cause,effects,
principal phenomena, and definition of dreams, etc. •
Cause of Dreams••
Poetical illustrations of the effects of the imagination
in dreams.
154
157
158
Principal phenomena in dreaming.
Definition of dreams. •
• 162
• 170
CHAPTER XI.
On Incubation, or the art of healing by visionary divi-
nation. • 178
CHAPTER XII.
Oo amulets, charms, talismans-Philters, their origin
and imaginary efficacy, etc. 197
.Amulets used by the common people. • • 200
Eccentricities, caprices, and effects, of the imagination. 203
Doctrine of Etlluvia-Miraculous cures by means of
charms, amulets, etc. • 207
CHAPTER XIII.
On talismans-some curious natural ones, etc. • 214
Digi '"d by Google
-----
VI CONTENTS.
Page
CHAPTER XIV.
On the medicinal powers attributed to music by the
ancients. • 225
CHAPTER XV.
l'resages, prodigies, presentiments, etc. • 237
CHAPTER XVI.
Phenomena of meteors, optic delusions, spectra, etc. • 251
CHAPTER XVII.
Elucidation of some ancient prodigies.
Magical pretensions of certain herbs, etc.
CHAPTER XVIII.
• 261
• 263
The practice of Obeah, or negro witchcraft-charms-
their knowledge of vegetable poison-secret poison-
ing. . 2
CHAPTER XIX.
On the origin and superstitious influence of rings. • 300
CHAPTER XX.
Celestial influences-omen-climacterics-predomina-
nations.-Lucky and unlucky days.-Empirics, etc. 305
Digi '"d by Google
•CONTENTS, VII
Pare
Absurdities ofParacelsus, and Van Helmont. • 329
C H A PTE R XXI.
Modem empiricism. . 336
CHAPTER XXII.
The Rosicrucians or Theosophists. • 3~7
•
I
'
Digii?edb,Google J
THAUMATURGIA,
OR
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS.
CHAPTER I.
DEMONOLOGY- THE DEVIL, A MOST UNACCOUNT•
ABLE PERSONAGE-WHO IS HE ?-HIS Pll.BDILKC•
TION FOB. OLD WOMEN-TRADITIONS CONCJtR:Slli'O
EVIL SPIRITS, &c.
CHILDREN and old women have been accustomed
to hear so many frightful things of the cloven-footed
potentate, and have formed such diabolical ideas
of his satanic majesty, exhibiting him in so many
horrible and monstrous shapes, that really it were
enough to frighten Beelzebub himself, were he
by any accident to meet his prototype in the
dark, dressed up in the several figures in which
imagination has embodied him. And as regards
men themselves, it might be presumed that the
devil could not by any means terrify them half 110
much, were they actually to meet and con-
B
Digi '"d by Google
2 THAUMATURGIA, OR
verse with him face to face : so true it is that
his satanic majesty is not near so black as he is
painted.
However useful the undertaking might prove, to
give a true history of this " tyrant of the air," this
" God of the world," this " terror and overseer of
mankind," it is not our intention to become the
devil's biographer, notwithstanding the facility with
which the materials might be collected. Of the
devil's origin, and the first rise of his family, we
have sufficient authority on record; and, as re-
gards his dealings, he has certainly always acted
in the dark ; though many of his doings both
moral, political, ecclesiastical, and empirical, ~ave
left such strong impressions behind them, as to
mark their importance in some transactions, even at
the present period of the christian world. These
discussions, however, we shan· leave in the hands
of their respective champions, in order to take, as we
proceed, a cursory view of some of the diableries
with which mankind, in imitation of this great
master, has been infected, from the first ages of the
world. ·
The Greeks, and after them the Romans, -con-
ferred the appellation of Demon upon certain genii,
or spirits, who made themselves visible to men with
the intention of either serving them as friends, or
doing them an injury as enemies. The followers of
Plato distinguiehed between their gods-or Dei
MaJorum Gentium; their demons, or those beings
which were not dissimilar in their general character
to the good and bad angels of christian belief,-and
l
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THB MAJlVBLLOUS, 3
their heroes. The Jews and the early christians
restricted the name of Demon to beings of a malig-
nant nature, or to devils properly so called; and
it is to the early notions entertained by this people,
that the outlines of later systems of demonology are
to be traced.
It is a question, we believe, not yet set at rest
by the learned in these sort of matters, whether the
word devil be singular or plural, that is to say,
whether it be the name of a personage so called,
standing by himself, or a noun of multitude. If it
be singular, and used only personal as a proper
name, it consequently implies one imperial devil,
monarch or king of the whole clan of hell, justly
distinguished by the term DBVJL, or as our northern
neighbours call him "the muckle horned deil,"
and poetically, after Burns "auld Clootie, Nick,
or Hornie," or, according to others, in a broader
set form of speech, " the devil in hell," that is,
the " devil of a devil," or in scriptural phra-
seology, the " great red dragon," the '' Devil or
Satan." But we shall not cavil on this mighty
potentate's name; much less dispute his identity,
notwithstanding the doubt that has been broached,
whether the said devil be a real or an imaginary
personage, in the shape. form, and with the facul-
ties that have been so miraculously ascribed to him ;
for
_
:._
If it should so fall out, as who can tell,
But there may be a God, a heav'n and bell?
Mankind had best consider well,-for fear
It be too late when their mistakes appear.
B 2
Digi '"d by Google
4 THAUHATURGIA, OR
The devil has always, it would seem, been par-
ticularly partial to old women ; the most ugly and
hideous of whom he has invariably selected to do his
bidding. Mother Shipton, for instance, our famous
old English witch, of whom so many funny stories
are still told, is evidently very .much wronged in
her picture, if she was not of the most terrible
aspect imaginable; and, if it be true, Merlin, the
famous Welch fortune-teller, was a most frightful
figure. If we credit another story, he was be-
gotten by " old nick" himself. To return,
however, to the devil's agents being so infernally
ugly, it need merely be remarked, that from time
immemorial, he has invariably preferred such rational
creatures as most belied the " human form divine."
The sybils, of whom so many strange prophetic
things are recorded,. are all, if the Italian poets are
to be credited, represented as very old women ; and
as if ugliness were the ne plus ultra of beauty in old
age, they have given them all the hideousness of the
devil himself. It will be seen, despite of all that
has been said to the disadvantage of the devil, that
he has very much improvell in his management of
worldly affairs; so much so, that, instead of an
administration of witches, wizzards, mag1c1ans.
diviners, astrologers, quack doctors, pettifogging
lawyers, and boroughmongers, he has selected some
of the wisest men as well as greatest fools of the
day to carry his plans into effect. His satanic
majesty seems also to have considerably improved
in his taste; owing, no doubt, to the present im-
proving state of society, and the universal diffusion
o'''ti"dbvGoogle
..
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB MARVELLOUS. b
of useful knowledge. Indeed, we no longer hear of
cloven-footed devils, only in a metaphorical sense-
fire and brimstone are extinct or nearly so ; thf'
embers of hell and eternal damnation are chiefl)
kept alive and blown up by ultras among the secta-
ries who are invariably the promoters of religious
fanaticism. Beauty, wit, address, with the less
shackled in mind, have superseded all that was
frightful, and terrible, odious, ugly, and deformed.
This subject is poetically and more beautifully illus-
trated in the following demonological stanzas, which
are so appropriate to the occasion, that we cannot
resist quoting them as ·a further prelude to our
subjects:
""ben the devil for weighty despatches
Wanted messengers cunning and bold,
He pass'd by the beautiful faces
And picked out the ugly and old.
Of these he made warlocks and witches
To run of his errands by night,
Till the over-wrought hug-ridden wretches
Were as tit as the-evil to fright.
But whoever has been his adviser,
As his kingdom increases in growth,
He now takes his measures much wiser,
And traftcs with beauty and youth.
Disguis'd in the wanton and witty,
He haunts both the church and the court ;
And sometimes he visits the city,
Where all the best christians resort.
Digi '"d by Google
6 THAUMATUROIA, OR
Thus dress'd up in full masquerade,
He the bolder t'an range up and down
For he better can drive on his trade,
In any one's name than his own.
To be brief, the devil, it appears, is by far
too cunning still for mankind, and continues to
manage things in his own way, in spite of bishops,
priests, laymen, and new churches. He governs the
vices and propensities of men by methods peculiarly'
his own ; though every crime or extortion, subter-
fuge or design, whether it be upon the purse or the
person, will not make a man a devil ; it must
nevertheless be confessed, that every crime, be its
magnitude or complexion what it may, puts the
criminal, in some measure, into the devil's power,
and gives him an ascendancy and even a title tl!l the
delinquent, whom he ever afterwards treats in a very
magisterial manner.
We are told that every man has his attendant
evil genius, or tutelary spirit, to execute the orders
of the master demon-that the attending evil angel
sees every move we make upon the board ; wit-
nesses all our actions, and permits us to do mischief,
and every thing that is pernicious to ourselves ;
-that, on the contrary, our good spirit, actuated
by more benevolent motives, is always accessary to
our good actions, and reluctant to those that are
bad. If this be the case, it may be fairly asked,
bow does it happen that those two contending spirits
do not quarrel and give each other black eyes and
broken heads during their rivalship for pre-eminence ?
i
•
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB KARVBLLOUII. 7
And why does the evil tempting spirit so often
prevail?
Instead of literally answering ther,e difficult ques-
tions, it may be. resolved into a good argument, as
an excellent allegory to represent the struggle in the
mind of man between good and evil inclinations.
But to take them as they actually are, and merely to
talk by way of natural ·consequence--for to argue
from nature is certainly the best way to get to the
bottom ofthe devil's story,-if there are good and
evil spirits attending us, that is to say, a good
angel and a devil, then it is no unjust reproach
to say, when people follow the dictates of the
latter, that tlae devil's in them, or that they are
devils! or, to carry the simile a point farther, that
as the generality, and by far the greatest number of
people follow and obey the evil ~;pirit and not the
good one, and that the power predominating is allowed
to be the nominating power, it must then of course
be allowed that the greater part of mankind have the
devil in them, which brings us to the conclusion of
our argument ; and in support of which the following
stanzas come happily to our recollection.
To persons and places he sends his disguises,
And dresses up all his banditti,
Who, as pickpockets flock to country assizl!s,
Crowd up"to the court and the city.
They're at every elbow, and every ear,
And ready at every call, Sir;
The vigilant scout, plants his agents about,
And has something to do wit~ us all, Sir.
Digi '"d o,.-Google
8 THAUMATURGIA, OR
In some be has part, and some be bas whole,
And of some, (like the Vicar of Baddow)
It can neither be said they have body or soul ;
And only are devils in shadow.
The pretty and witty are devils in masque ;
The beauties are mere apparitions;
The homely alone by their faces are known,
And the good by their ugly conditions.
The beaux walk about like the shadows of ml'n,
And wherever he leads them they follow ;
But tak'em, and shak'em, there's not one in ten
But's as light as a feather, and hollow.
Thus all his affairs he drives on in disguise,
And he tickles mankind with a feather,
Creeps in at one·s ear, and looks out at our eyes,
And jumbles our tienses together.
He raises the vapours and prompts the desires,
And to ev'ry dark deed holds the candle ;
The passions inflames and the appetite fires,
And takes every thing by the handle.
Thus he w1.lks np and down in complete masquerade
And with every company mixes ;
Sells in every shop, works at e\·ery trade,
And ev'ry thing doubtful perplexes.
The Jewish traditions concerning evil spirits are
various, some of which are founded on Scripture,
some borrowed from the opinions ofthe Pagans, some
are fables of their own invention, and some are alle-
gorical.
The demons of the Jews were considered either as
the distant progeny of Adam or EYe, ' resulting
from an improper intercourse with supernatural
BLUCIDATft>NS 01" THK MARVELLOUS. !)
beings, or of Cain. As the doctrine, however,
was extremely revolting to some few of the early
Christians, they maintained that demons were the
souls of departed human beings, who were still
permitted to interfere in the affairs of the Earth,
either to assist their friends or to persecute their
enemies. But this doctrine did not obtain.
About two centuries and a half ago an attempt, in
a condensed form, was made, to give the varioua
opinions entertained of demons at an early date of
the christian era; and it was not until a much later
period of Christianity, that a more decided doctrine re-
lative to their origin and nature was established. These
tenetsinvolved certain very knotty points respectingthe
fall of those angels, who, for disobedience, had forfeited
their high abode in Heaven. The gnostics of early
christian times, in imitation of a classification of the
different orders of spirits by Plato, had attempted a
similar arrangement with respect to an hierarchy of
angels, the gradation of which stood as follows.
The first, and highest order, was named SERA·
PHINS; the second, CHERUBINS ; the third Was the
order of THRONES ; the fourth, of DoMINIONS; the
fifth, of Vu\Tuxs ; the sixth, of PowERs ; the seventh,
of PRINCIPALITIES; the eighth, of ARCHANGELS;
the ninth, and lowest, of ANGELS, This fable wnl!,
in a pointed manner, censured by the Apostles: yet
strange to say, it almost outlived the pneumatologi!!ta
of the middle ages. These schoolmen, in reference to
the account that Lucifer rebelled against heaven, and
that Michael the archangel warred against him, long
10 THAUMATURGIA, ,.R
agitated the momentous question, what order of angels
fell on the occasion. At length it became the prevail-
ing opinion that Lucifer was of the order of Seraphins.
It was also proved after infinite research, that Agares,
Belial, and Barbatos, each of them deposed angels of
great rank, had been of the order of Virtues; that
Beleth, Focalor, and Phrenix, had been of the order
of Thrones; that Gaap had been of the order of Pow-
ers, and Virtues; and Murmur of Thrones and Angels.
The pretensions of many noble devils were, likewise,
canvassed, and, in an equally satisfactory manner,
determined; a multiplicity ofincidents connected there-
with were arranged, which previously had been matter
of considerable doubt and debate. These sovereign
devils, to each ofwhom was assigned a certain district,
had many noble spirits subordinate to them whose
various ranks and precedence were settled with all
the preciseness ofheraldic distinction :-there were, for
instance, devil-dukes; devil-marquises; devil-earls;
devil-knights; devil-presidents, devil-archbishops, and
bi~hops; prelates; and, without question, devil-phy-
sicians, and apothecaries.
In the middle ages, when conjuration had attained
a certain pitch of perfection, and was regularly prac-
tised in Europe, devils of distinction were supposed to
make their appearance under decided forms, by which
they were as well recognised, as the head of any an-
cient family would be by his crest and armorial bear-
ings. The shapes they were accustomed to adopt
were registered among their names and characters.
Although the leading tenets of Demonology may be
:ELUCIDATIONS OF TBB IIABVBLL0178. 1\.
t111ced to the Jews and early Christians, yet they were
matured by our early communications with the Moon
of Spain, who were the chief philosophers of the
dark ages, and between whom and the natives of
France and Italy, a great communication existed.
Toledo, Seville and Salamanca, became the greatest
schools of magic. At the latter city predilections on
the black art from a consistent regard to the solem-
nity of the subject were delivered within the walls of
a vast and gloomy cavern. The schoo]men taught
that all knowledge might be obtained from the assist-
ance of the fallen angels. They were skilled in the
abstract sciences, in the knowledge ofprecious stones,
in alchymy, in the various languages of mankind and
of the lower animals ; in the Belles-Lettres, Moral
Philosophy, Pneumatology, Divinity, Magic, History,
and Prophecy. They could controul the winds and
waters, nnd the stellar influences. They could cause
earthquakes, induce diseases or cure them, ~omplish
all vast mechanical undertakings, and release souls
out of Purgatory. They could influence the passions
of the mind, procure the reconciliation of friends or
of foes, engender 'mutual discord, induce mania,
melancholy, or direct the force· and objects of
human affection. Such was the Demonology taught
by its orthodox professors. Yet other systems of
it were devised, which had their origin in the causes
attending the propagation of christianity ; for it
must have been a work of much time to eradicate
the almost universal belief in the pagan deities,
which had become .so numerous as to fill every creek
and corner of the universe with fabulous beings.
·-~-
Digi '"d by Google
THAUMATURGIA, OR
Many learned men, indeed, were induced to side with
the popular opinion on the subject, and did nothing
more than endeavour to unite it with their acknow·
!edged l!ystems of Demonology. They taught that
the objects of heathen reverence were fallen angela
in league with the Prince of DarkneSI!, who, until the
'appearance of our Saviour, had been allowed to range
on the earth uncontrolled, and to involve the world in
spiritual darknes~c~ and delusion,
According to the various ranks which these spirits
held in the vast kingdom of Lucifer, they were suffer-
ed, in their degraded state, to take up their abode in
the air, in mountains, in springs, or in seas. But
although the various attributes ascribed to the Greek
and Roman deities, were, by the early teachers of
christianity, considered in the humble light of demon-
iacal delusions, yet, for many centuries they possessed
great influence over the minds of the vulgar. The
notion of every man being attended by an evil
genius was abandoned much earlier than the far more
agreeable part of the 1!8me doctrine which taught that,
as an antidote to their influence, each individual was
also accompanied by a benignant spirit. " The mi-
nistration of angels," says a writer in the Athenian
Oracle, " is certain; but the manner how, is the knot
to be untied." It was an opinion of the early philo-
sophers that not only kingdoms* had their tutelary
guardians, but that every person had his particular
• Thus the Penates, or household gods presided over new-
born infants. Every thing had its guardian or peculiar
genius: cities, groves, fountAins, hills, were all pro\·ided
witb keepers of this kind, and to each man was allotted no
Digi '"d by Google
J
ELVCIDAriO~S 01' TBB MABVBLLOCS. 13
genius or good spirit, to protect and admonish him
through the medium of dreams and visions. Suchwere
the objects of superstitious reverence derived from the
Pantheons of Greece and Rome, the whole synod of
which was supposed to consist of demons, who were
atill actively bestirring themselves to delude mankind.
But in the west of Europe, a host of other demons,
far more formidable, were brought into play, who had
their origin in Celtic, Teutonic, and even in Eastena
fables ; and as their existence, as well as in1luence,
was boldly asserted, not only by the early cbri11tiaus,
but even by the reformers, it was long before the
rites to which they were accustomed were totally
eradicated.
lesa than two-one good, the other bad ( Hor. Lib. II.
Epist. 2.) who attended him from the cradle to the gran.
The Greeks called them demtJJ~~. They were named Prtii'MI•
liln, from their auperintending human alfair1.
Digi '"d by Google
THAUMATUROIA, OR
CHAPTER II.
MAGIC AND MAGICAL RITES, &c.
FBw subjects present to a philo!!ophic eye more
matter of curious, important and instructive re!!earch
than the natural history of religion. Some sort of
religious service has been found to prevail in all
ages and nations, from the most rude and barbaroua
periods of human !!Ociety, to those of cultivation
and refinement. In these periods are to be traced
specimens strongly marked with exertions of the
feelings, and faculties of men in every situation
almost that can be supposed. It is from the con-
templation of these exertions that we learn what
sort of creature man is ; that we discover the extent
of his powers, and the tendency of his desires ;
and that we become acquainted with the force of
culture and civilization upon him, by comparing
the degrees of improvement he has attained in the
various stages of society through which he has
passed.
Digi '"d by Google
t
I
'
ILUCIDATIONS OP THE MAR\'.B:LLOUS. 15
It seems to be a principle established by experience,
that mankind in general have at no time been able,
by the operation of their own mutual powers, to
ascend in their inquiries to the great comprehensive
foundation of true religion,-the knowledge of a
first cause. This idea is too grand, too distinct, or
too refined for the generality of the human race.
They are surrounded by eensible objects, and strongly
attached to them ; they are in a great measure
unaccustomed to the most simple and obvious degrees
of abstraction, and they can scarcely conceive any-
thing to have a real existence that may not become
an object of their senses. Possessed of such sen-
timents and views, they are fully prepared in em-
bracing all the follies and absurdities of superstition.
They worship every thing they either love or fear, in
order to procure the continuance of favours enjoyed,
or to avert that resentment they may have reason to
dread. As their knowledge of nature is altogether
imperfect, and as many events every moment present
themselves, upon which they can form no theoretic:J.
conclusion, they fly for satisfaction to the mol!t.simple,
but most ineffectual of all solutions-the agency ol
invisible beings, with which, in their opinion, all
11ature is filled. Hence the rise of Polytheism
and local deities, which have overspread the face
of the earth, under the different titles of guardian
gods or tutelary saints. Hence magnificent temples
and splendid statues have been erected to aid the
imagination of votaries, and to realize objects of
worship, which, though supposed to be always hover-
ing around, seldom condescend to become visible.
Digi '"d by Google
---....----.....-----
.....- ~ ........._,.,...... -
16 THAUJUTURGIA, OB
After obtaining some information concerning pre-
sent objects, the next cause of solicitude and inquiry
to the mind of man, is to penetrate a little into
the secrets of futurity. The same tutelary gods
who bestowed their care, and exerted their powers
to procure present pleasure and happiness for man-
kind, were supposed not averse to grant them, in
this respect also, a little indulgence. Hence the
famous oracular responses of antiquity ; hence the
long train of conjurers, fortune-tellers, astrologers,
necromancers, magicians, wizards. and witches,
that have been found in all places and at all times;
nor have superior knowledge and civilization
been ·sufficient to extirpate such characters, by
demonstrating the futility and absurdity of their
views.
Among the ancients, this superstition was a great
engine of state. The respect paid to omens, auguries
and oracles, was profound and universal ; and the
persons in power monopolized the privilege of con-
sfllting and interpreting them. They joined the
people in expressing their ve~eration ; but there
ill little reason to doubt that they conducted the
responses in such a manner as best suited the pur-
poses of government. On this account, it would
not be difficult for the oracle to emit predictions,
which, to' all those unacquainted with the secret.
would appear altogether astonishing and unaccount-
able, It would seem that this princ1ple alone is
aufficient to explain all the phenomena of ancient
oracles.
Though devination has long ceased to be an
ELUCIDATIONS OF THli: IURVBLLOUS. ) 7
instrument of government, abundance of designing
persons have not been wanting in latter ages, who
found much interest in taking advantage of the
weakness or credulity of their fellow creatures.
Against this pestilent and abandoned race of men,
moet civilized countries have enacted penal laws.
But what rendered such penons peculiarly detest-
able in modem times, was the communication which
they were supposed to hold with the devil, to whotn
they sold themselves, and from whom, in return,
they derived their information. And by this prin-
ciple the penal statutes, instead of extirpating,
inflamed the evil. They alarmed the imaginations
of the people ; they tempted them to impute the
cause of their misfortunes and disappointment to
the malice or resentment of their neighbours ; they
induced them to trust to their suspicions, much
more than to their reason ; and they multiplied
witches and wizards, by putting into possession of
every foolish informer the means of punishment. In
several countries of Europe, these statutes still
subsist ; they were not abolished in Britain till a
period still at no great distance. Since the abolition
of persecution, the faith of witchcraft has disappeared
even among the vulgar. It was long found inconsis-
tent with any considerable progress in philosophy.
For these reasons we read, with some degree of
astonishment, a treatise on this exploded subject, by
a philosopher, an eminent physician, a privy conn-
seller of the then Empress Queen, and a professor
in ~e university of Vienna. It was long doubted
whether the professor was in earnest, but the
c
Digi '"d by Google
•
•
•
18 THAUMATUROJA, OR
world was at length forced to admit, that the great
Antonius de Haen certainly believed in witchcraft,
and reckoned the knowledge of it, in treating a
disease, of great importance to a physician-to the
acquisition of which useful knowledge, he dedicated
a great part of his time. In the year 1758, three
old women, condemned to death for witchcraft, were
brought by order of the Empress from Croatia to
Vienna, to undergo an examination, with regard
to the equity of the sentence pronounced against
them. The question was not whether the crime
existed ; the only object of inquiry respected the
justice of its application. The author, and the
illustrious van Swieten, were appointed to make
the investigation. After reading over the deposition!!,
produced on the trials with the greatest care, and
interrogating the culprits themselves most vigorously
by means of a Croatian interpreter, these great
physicians discovered that the three old women were
not witches, and prevailed with the Empress to
send them home in safety. It was this circumstance
that induced de Haen to write on magic.
That some judgment may be formed of de Haen's
very extraordinary and curious production written in
the latter part of the eighteenth century, we shall here
furnish our readers with an abstract of its principles
and reasoning, to which we shall subjoin some
remarks,
By the crime of magic, the author informs us, he
means any improper communication between men
and evil spirits, whether it be called theurgy, soothsay-
ing, necromancy, chiromancy, incantation or witch-
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB MABVBLLOUS. 19
craft. He pro~ to prove, in the first place, that
such a communication does actually exist. He
quotes the Egyptian magicians, the witch of Endor,
the possessions mentioned in the New Testament,
and many more exceptionable authorities from the
fathers, and canons of the church. He is positive
the incantations of the Egyptian magicians were real
operatioas of infernal agents, and that the accounts
ofthem, delivered by Moses, can admit no other oon-
etrnction.
May not the sincere believer in the divine au-
thority of the scriptures reasonably hesitate con-
cerning this conclusion? Or rather, does not such
an interpretation justly expose revelation to re-
proach ? The plain dictates of the best philosophy
are, that nothing is more simple, regular, and uni-
form than the ordinary course of nature ; and that
this course can neither be suspended nor altered,
but by its author, nor can by him be permitted to
be interrupted by any inferior being, unless for the
most important reasons. It does not appear what
good end could be gained, on the part of Provi-
dence, by the permission of these magical en-
chantments, supposing them supernatural ; and if
we imagine the Devil to have acted spontaneously,
with a view to support his power and influence,
he most manifestly erred in his design. Nothing
could be more impolitic than his appearance in a
field of comba!, where he well knew he must
sustain an ignominious defeat. Or if he worked
effectually to support the power and influence 'of
his servants the magicians, he should have counter-
c2
Digi '"d by Google
20 TBAUMATORGU., OR
acted, not repeated, the miraculous exhibitions of
Moses. That the magicians possessed no power
sufficient for this purpose is obvious, from their
not exerting it. That Pharoah expected no such
exertion from them is evident from his never re-
questing it, and from his application to Moses and
Aaron. The truth seems to be, that Pharoah con·
ceived Moses and Aaron to be magicians like his
own. He wished to support the character of the
latter ; and he concluded this would be effectually
done, if they could only furnish a pretence for
affirming that they had performed every wonder accom·
plished by the former. Without some such suppo·
sition of collusion, two of the miracles attempted
by the magicians are perfectly absurd and contra-
dictory. They pretended to tum water into blood,
when there was not one drop of water in all the
land of Egypt, which Aaron had not previously
converted into that substance. They .pretended to
send frogs over the land of Egypt, when every
comer of it was swarming with that loathsome
reptile. It is further remarkable that, with the
three first only of Moses's miracles they proposed to
vie ; on the appearance of the fourth, they fairly
resigned the contest, and acknowledged very honestly
that the hand of God was visible in the miracles of
Moses ;-a plain confession that no supernatural
power operated in their own.
De Haen considers the case of th:witch of Endor
as an authority still more direct. He maintains
that Samuel was actually called up, either under
corporeal or fantastic form, and foretold Saul the
ELt1CIDATION8 01' TBB MAJlVELLOt18. 21
late of his engagements with the Philistines. Let
us attend to the circumstances of the story, and
examine whether it is absolutely necessary to have
recourse to this supernatural hypothesis. The mind
of Saul was distracted and agitated beyond measure
by the mOI!t critical and alarming situation of his
a1Fairs ; his distress was so great that, forgetting
his dignity and safety, he dismissed his attendants,
laid aside his royal robes, was unable to eat bread,
and, dreseed like the meanest of his people, he took
his journey to the abode of the conjurer. In this
state of mind, prepared for imposition, he arrives
during the night at her residence. He prevails with
her, by much solicitation, and probably by ample
rewards, to call up Samuel. To discompose etill
further the disordered mind of Saul, she announces
the pretended approach of the apparition by a loud
acclamation, tells the king she knew him, which
till now she affected not to do, and describes the
resurrection of the prophet, under the awful sem-
blance of God's rising out of the earth.
During all this time the king had seen nothing
extraordinary, either because he was not allowed light
aufficient for that purpose, or was not admitted
within the sphere of vision. He entreats an ac-
count of the personage who approached, and the
conjurer describes the well-known appearance of
Samuel. The prophet sternly challenges the king
for disturbing his repose, tells him that David was
intended to be King of Israel, that himself would
be defeated by the Philistines, and that he and his
eons would fall in battle. The king enters into no
Digi '"d by Google
•
22 TRAt1MATt1RGU, OR
conversation with the apparition ; but unable any
longer to support his agitation, drops lifeless on
the ground. The conjurer returns to Saul, presses
him to take some food which she had prepared.
He at last complies ; and having finished his repast,
departs with his servants before the morning. The
whole of this scene, it is evident, passed in dark-
ness. It does not appear that Sanl ever saw the
prophet ; and it surely required no supernatural
intelligence to communicate all the information he
obtained. This would readily be suggested by the
despondency of the king, the strength of his ene-
mies, and the disposition of the whole people of the
Jews alienated from him, and inclined towards his
successor. The witch of Endor, therefore, might
be a common fortune-teller, and her case exhibits
no direct proof of supernatural possession.
We do not pretend to account so easily for many
of the possessions recorded in the New Testament,
though few of these only are applicable to the case
of sorcery. We are well aware, that several writers
of eminence, who cannot be supposed to entertain
the least unfavourable sentiments of revelation,
have undertaken to explain these possessions,
without having recourse 'to any thing supernatural,
by representing them as figurative descriptions of
particular and local diseases.
We mean not to adopt, or defend the views of
such authors, though· we may perhaps be allowed
to observe that, were their opinions supported in a
satisfactory manner, christianity would lose nothing
by the attempt. It wonld be exempted, by this
c
I
I
l
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB MABVBLLOUS.. 23
means, from a little cavilling and ridicule, to which
!!Ome of its enemies reckon it at present exposed,
and the design could not in the least derogate
from its divinity, as the instantaneous cure of a dis-
t~per cannot be considered lees miraculous than
~ expulsion of the devil. At any rate, these
possessions are all extraordinary ; appeared on eome
most extraordinary occasion ; and from them, there-
fore, no general conclusion can be drawn to the or-
dinary cases of common life.
We shall now translate a specimen of de Haen's*
authorities, extracted from the fathers. The fol-
lowing from Jerome will need no comment. This
father, in his life of St. Hilario the hermit, relates
that a young man of the town of Gaza in Syria,
fell deeply in love with a pious virgin in the neigh-
bourhood. He attacked her with looks, whispers,
professions, caresses, and all those arguments which
usually conquer yielding virginity ; but finding them
all ineffectual, he resolved to repair to Memphis,
the residence of many eminent conjurers;. and
implore their magic aid. He remained there for a
year, till he was fu1ly instructed in the art. He
then returned home, exulting in his acquisitions,
and feasting his imagination with the luscious scenes
he was now confident of realizing. All he had to do
was to lodge .aecretly eome hard words and uncouth
• Antonio de Haen, S. C. R. A. Majeatate a consiliis anti-
cis, et Archiatri, medecine in alma et antiquissimo· univer.
aitate professoris primarij, plurium eruditorium societatem
80Cii, de magia tiber. 8vo. Vienna.
Digi '"d by Google
24 TBAUMATURGIA, OR
figures, engraved on a plate of brass, below the
threshold of the door of the houae in which the lady
lived. She became perfectly furious, she tore her
hair, gnashed her teeth, and repeated incessantly
the name of the youth, who had been drawn frdtn
her presence by the violence of her despairiv
passion. In this situation she was conducted ey
her relations to the cell of old Hilario. The devil
that possessed her, in consequence of the charm,
began immediately to howl, and to confess the truth.
" I have suffered violence," said he ; " I have .
been forced hither against my inclination. How
happy was I at Memphis, amusing my friends with
visions ! 0 the pains, the tortures which I suffer !
You command me to dislodge, and I am detained
fast by the charm ~low the threshold. I cannot
depart, unless the young man dismiss me." So
cautious, however, was the saint, that he would not
permit the magic figures to be searched for, till he
had released the virgin, for fear he should seem to
have intercourse with incantations in performing the
cure or to believe that a devil could even speak
truth. He observed only that demons are always liars,
and cunning to deceive.
De Haen imputes to the power of magic the
miracles,* as they are called, of the famous Apol-
lonius Thyanaeus. He seems to entertain no
• Many significations have been attached to the wor4
miracle, both by the ancients and moderns. With us a
miracle is the suspension or violation of the Jaws of na- .
ture ; and a miracle, which can be explained upon physical
Digi '"d by Google
JCLUCIDATJONS OP TBB JURVBLL0118. 25
scruple about their authority. As several of the
enemies of revelation have held forth Thyanaens as
a rival of Jesus Christ, a epecimen of his perform-
ances may amuse our readers. During an aseembly
of the people at Ephesns, a great flight of birds
approached from a neighbouring wood ; one bird led
all the rest. " There is nothing wonderful," says
Thyanaens, to the astonished people, " in this
appearance. A boy passing along a particular street
has carelessly scattered in it some com which he
carried ; one bird has tasted the food, and generously
calls the rest to partake the repast." The hearers
principles, ceases to be sucl• Whatever surpaued their
comprehension was regarded by the ancients as a miracle,
and every extraordinary degree of information attained by
an individual, as well as any unlooked-for occurrence, was
referred to some peculiar interposition of the deity. Renee
among the ancients, the followers of different divinities, far
from denying the miracles performed by their opponents,
admitted their reality, but endeRvoured to surpass them;
and thua in the " life of Zoroaster," we find that able in-
novator frequently entering the lists with hostile enchanters,
admitting but exceeding the wonderful works they per-
formed; and thus also when the thirst of power, or of
distinction, divided the sacerdotal colleges, similar trials of
skill would ensue, the successful combatant being con-
aidered to derive his knowledge from the more powerful
god. That the s~ence on which each party depended was
derived from experimental physics, may be proved. I. by
tbe conduct of the ThRumaturgiats, or wonder-workers :
2. from what they themselves bad said concerning magic ;
the genii invoked by the magicians, sometimes denoting
phyaical or chemical agents employed, sometimes men who
cultivated the science.
7
26 THAUMATUROIA, OR
repaired to the spot, and found the information
true.
Being called to allay a pestilence which raged at
Ephesus, he ordered an old beggar to be burned
under the stones near the temple of Hercules, as an
enemy to the gods. He commanded the people
llc<>'Bin to remove the stones, that they might see
what sort of animal had been put to death. They
found not a man, but a dog. The plague, however,
ceased.
A married woman of rank being dead, was carried
out to be burued in an open litter, followed by her
husband dis~olved in tears. Apollonius approaching,
requests him to stop th~rocession, and he would
put .an end to his grief. He asked the name of
the woman, touched her, and muttered over her
some words. She immediately revived, began to
speak, and returned again to her own house. Fleury,
who relates the miracle, remarks that some people
doubted whether the woman had been really dead,
as they had observed something like breath issue
from her mouth. Others imagined she had been
seized only with a tedious faint, and that the opera-
tion of the cold dews and damps upon her body
might naturally recover her. On Fleury's remark
de Haen most sagely observes, that the persons
who observed the woman breathing could not surely
have suppressed the joyful news, and would certainly
have stopped the procession before the philosopher
arrived.
De Haen's second attempt is to recite all the
objections that have been made against sorcery, and
BLUCIDATION8 OP TBB IIAB.VBLLOCS. 27
to subjoin to each a distinct refutation. There is
nothing in this part of the work that merits any
attention. He concludE'S in these words : " I may
then with confidence affirm, that the art of m8gic
most certainly exists. History, sacred and prophane ;
authority human and divine ; experiments the most
unquestionable and unexceptionable, all concur to
demonstrate its reality."
The last part of de Haen'swork relatesto the dis·
covering and treating of magical diseaset!, to explain
which seems to have been the chief pnrpoee of the
author in composing his book. Much caution, he
observes, and attention are necessary on this head ;
and the physician should.not readily admit the im-
putation of witchcraft. No absence of the ordinary
symptoms, no uncommon . alteration of the course
of the distemper, are sufficient to infer this conclu-
sion, because these may arise from unknown natural
causes. What then are the marks of certain in-
cantations ? De Haen holds the following to be
indisputable : " if, in any uncommon disease, there
shall ,be found, in the stuffing of the cushions, or
cielings of the room in which the patient lies, in ·
the feather or the chaff of his bed, about the
door, or under the threshold of his bouse, any
strange characters, images, bones, hair, seeds, or
roots of plants ; and if upon the removal of these,
or upon conveying the patient into another apart-
ment, he shall suddenly recover ; or if the patient
himself, or his friends, shall be so wicked as to
call a Wizzard to their aid, by whom the malady
&hall be removed ; or if insects and animals which
:!8 TBAUMATUII.GU., 011.
do not lodge in the human body ; if stones, metals,
glass, knives, plaited hair, pieces of pitch, be
ejected from particular parts of the body, of greater
size, and weight and figure, than could be supposed
to make their way through these parts, without
much greater demolition and delaceration of the
passages ; in all these cases, the disease is unques-
tionably magical."
The author proceeds to enquire whether the phy-
sician may presume to remove the instruments of
incantation in order to relieve the patient without
incurring the accusation of impiety by interfering
with the implements and furniture of the devil ;
and concludes very formally that, after approachiDg
them with all due ceremony and respect, after im-
ploring with suitable devotion and ardour, the pro-
tection and direction of heaven in such a periloua
undertaking, he may attempt to intermeddle, and
may occasionally expect a succeBBful iBSUe.
Such are the views, reasonings, and conclu-
sions of, at the time, one of the first physicians and
philosophers of Germany ;-views and r.easoninge
which would have been received with eagerness and
applause two hundred years ago, but which the
philosophy and improvements of later times seem to
have banished to the abodes of ignorance and bar-
barity.
The origin of almost all our knowledge may be
traced to the earlier periods of antiquity. This is
peculiarly the case with respect to the arts denomi-
nated magical. There were few ancient nations,
h{}wever barbarous, which could not furnish many
KLUCIDATION8 OP TB:K JIABVBLLOUS. 29
individuals to whose spe1la and enchantments the
power of nature and the material world were sup-
posed to be subjected. The Chaldeans, the Egyp-
tians, and indeed all the oriental nations were ac~
customed to refer all natural effects, for which they
could not account to the agency of demons, who
were believed to preside over herbs, trees, rivers,
mountains, and animals. Every member of the
human body was under their power, and all corpo-
real diseases were produced by their malignity.
For instance, if any happened to be a1fected with
a fever, little anxiety was manifested to discover
its cause, or to adopt rational measures .for its core ;
it most no doubt have been occasioned by some eYil
spirit residing in the body, or inftuencin~ in some
mysterious way, the fortunes of the su1Terlr. That
influence could be counteracted only by certain ma-
gical rites ; hence the observance of those rites soon
obtained a permanent establishment in the East.
Even at the present day, many uncivilized people
hold that all nature is filled with genii, of which
some exercise a beneficent, and others a destructive
power. All evils with which man is afBicted, are
considered the work of these imaginary beings,
whose favour must be propitiated by sacrifices, in-
cantations, and songs. If the Greenlander be unsuc-
cessful in fishing, the Huron in hunting, or in war;
if even the scarcely half reasoning Hottentot
finds every thing is not right in his mind, body, or
fortune, no time must be lost before the spirit be
invoked. After the removal of some present evil,
the next strongest desire in the human mind is the
Digi '"d by Google
30 THAUJIATUBOIA, OR
attainment of some future good. This good is often
beyond the power, and still oftener beyond the in-
clination of man to bestow ; it must therefore be
sought from beings which are snpposed to posse88
considerable influence · over human affairs, and
which being elevated above the baser passions of
our nature, were thought to regard with peculiar
favour all who acknowledged their power, or invoked
their aid: hence the numerous rites which have,
in all ages and countries, been observed in con-
sulting ~roperior intelligences, and the equally nume-
rous modes in which their pleasure has been com-
municated to mortals.
The Chaldean magi were chiefly founded on
astrology, and were much conversant with certain
animals, ~etals and plants, which they employed
in all their incantations ; the virtue of which
was derived from stellar influence. Great attention
was always paid to the positions and the configura-
tions presented by the celestial sphere ; and it was
only at favourable seasons that the solemn rites
were celebrated. Those rites were accompanied with
many peculiar and fantastic gestures, by leaping,
clappingof hands, prostrations, loud cries, and not on-
frequently with unintelligible exclamations. Sacrifices,
and burnt offerings were used to propitiate superior
powers ; but our knowledge of the magical rites
exercised by certain oriental nations, the Jews only
excepted, is extremely limited. All the books pro-
fessedly written on the subject, have been swept
away by the torrent of time. We learn, however,
that the professors among the Chaldeans were ge-
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THE :MARVELLOUS. 31
nerally divided into three classes ; the Ascaphim,
or charmers, whose office it was to remove present,
and to avert future contingent evils ; to construct
talismans, etc. The Mecaschephim, or magicians,
properly so called, who were conversant with the
occult powers of nature, and the supernatural world ;
and the clu:zsdim, or astrologers, who constituted by
far the most numerous and respectable class. And
from the assembly of the wise men on the occasion •
of the extraordinary dream of Nebuchadnezzar, it
would appear that Babylon had also her oneirocri-
tici, or interpreters of dreams--,-a species of diviners
indeed, to which almost every nation of antiquity
gave birth.
Like the Chaldean astrologers, the Persian magi,
from whom our word magic is derived, belong to
the priesthood. But the worship of the gods was
not their chief occupation ; they were also great pro-
ficients in the arts. They joined to the worship of
the gods, and to the profession of medicine and na-
tural magic, a pretended familiarity with superior
powers, from which they boasted of deriving all
their knowledge. Like Plato, who probably im·
hibed many of their notions, they taught that
demons hold a middle rank between gods and men ;
that they (the demons) presided not only over divi-
nations, auguries, conjurations, oracles, and every
species of magic, but also over sacrifices, and
prayer, which in behalf of men is thus presented,
and rendered acceptable to the gods. Indeed, the
austerity of their lives* wa.S well calculated to
• All the three orders of Magi enumerated by Porphyry,
Digi '"d by Google
32 TBAUMATURGIA, OR
strengthen the impression which their cunning had
already made on the multitude, and to prepare the
way for whatever impostures they might afterwards
practise.
We are less acquainted with Indian magic
than with that practised by any other Eastern
nations. It may, however, be reasonably enough
inferred that it was very :similar to that for which
• the magi in general were held in such high estima·
tion : although they were excluded, as beings of too
sacred a nature, from the ordinary occurrences of
life. Their Brahmins, or Gymnosophists, were
regarded with as much reverence as the magi, and
probably were more worthy of it. Some of them
dwelt in woods, and others in the immediate vicinity
of cities. Their skill in medicine was great ; the
care which they took in educating youth, in fami.
liarizing it with generous and virtuous sentiments,
did them peculiar honour ; and their maxims and
discourses, as recorded by historians, prove that
they were much accustomed to profound reflection
on the principles of civil polity, morality, religion
and philosophy.
JEWISH MAGI,
Of the magi of the Jews, it is proved by Light·
foot,* that after their return from Babylon, having
entirely forsaken idolatry, and being no longer
ubstained from wine and women, and the first of these
orders from animal food.
• Vol. ii. p. 287.
ELUCIDATIONS OF. THB MARVELLOUS. 33
favoured with the gift of prophecy, they gradually
abandoned themselves, before the coming of our
Saviour, to sorcery and divination. The Talmud,
still regarded with a reverence bordering on idolatry,
abounds with instructions for the due observance of
saperstitious rites. After their city and temple
were destroyed, many Jewish impostors were highly
esteemed for their pretended skill in magic ; and
under pretence of interpreting dreams, they met
with daily opportnnities of practising the most
shameful frauds. Many Rabbins were quite as well
versed in the school of Zoroaster, as in that of Moses.
They prescribed all kinds of conjuration, some for
the cnre of wonnds, some against the dreaded bite
of serpents, and others against thefts and enchant-
ments. Their divinations were fonnded on the in-
ftuence of the stars, and on the operations of spirits,
they did not, indeed, like the Chaldean magi, re-
gard the heavenly bodies as gods and genii, but
they ascribed to them a great power over the ac-
tions and opinions of men.
The magical rites of the Jews were, and-indeed are
still, chiefly perfonned on various important occa-
sions, as on the birth of a ·child, marriages, etc.
On such occasions the evil spirits 1\re supposed to
be more than usually active in their malignity, which
can ouly be counteracted by certain enchantments.*
They believe that Lilis will cause all their male
children to die on the eighth day after their birth ;
girls on the twenty-first.t The following are the
• See Tobit. chap. viii. v. 2 and 2.
t Elias, as quoted by Becker.
D
•
•
•
34 THAUMATURGJA, OR
means adopted by the German JeW! to avert this
calamity. They draw arrows in circular lines with
chalk or charcoal on the four walla of the room in
which the accouchement takes place, and write upon
each arrow : Adam, Eve ! make Lilia go away !
They write also on certain parts of the room the
name of the three angels who preside over medi·
cine, Senai, SanBenai, and Samnangelof, after the
manner taught them by Lilia herself when she en·
tertained the hope of causing all the Jews to be
drowned in the Red Sea.
Josephus, the historian of the Jews, does not
allow to magic so ancient an origin among them,
as many Jewish writers do. He makes Solomon the
first who practised an art which is so powerful
against demons ; and the knowledge of which,
he asserts, was communicated .to that prince by
immediate inspiration. The latter, continues this
historian, invented and transmitted to posterity in
his writings, certain incantations for the cure of
diseases, and for the expulsion ·and perpetual ba·
nishment of wicked spirits from the bodies of the
possessed. It consisted; according to his descrip-
tion, in the use of a certain root, which was
sealed up, and held under the nose of the person
possessed ; the name of Solomon, with the words
prescribed by him, was then pronounced, and the
demon forced immediately to retire. He does not
even hesitate to assert, that he himself has been an
eye witness of such an effect produced on a person
named Eleazer, in the presence of the Emperor Ves-
pasian and his sons. Nor will this relation surprise
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB MABVBLLOUB. 35
us, when we consider the rooted malignity enter-
tained by the Jews to the christian religion, and
this writer's attempt to appreciate the miracles of our
Sa\'iour, by ascribing them to magical influence,
and by representing them as easy of accomplish-
ment to all acquainted with the occult sciences.
Innumerable are the devices contained in the
Cabala for averting possible evils, as the plague,
disease, and sudden death. It directs how to
select and combine some passages of scripture,
which are believed both to render supernatural
beings visible, and to pro.duce many wonderful and
surprising effects. The most famous wonders have
been accomplished by means of the name of God.
The sacred word Jehovah is, when read with points,
multiplied by the Jewish doctors into twelve, forty-
two, and seventy-two letters, of which words are
composed that are thought to possess miraculous
energy. By these, say they, Moses slew the Egyp·
tians ; by these Israel was preserved from the des-
troying angel of the wilderness ; by these Elijah
separated the waters of the river, to open a passage
for himself and Elisha, and by these it has been as
daringly and impudently asserted, that our blessed
Saviour, the eternal Son of God, cast out evil spirits.
The name of the devil is likewise used in their
magical devices. The five Hebrew letters of which
that name* is composed, exactly constitute the
• There is no mention made of the worrl Devil io the
Old Testament, but only of Satan : nor do we meet with it
ill any of the heathen author& who 111y anything 11bout the
D 2
Digi '"d by Google
36 TBAUMATt'ROlA, OR
number 364, one less than the days of the whole
year. They pretended that, owing to the wonder·
ful virtue of the number comprised in the name of
Satan, he is prevented from accusing them for an
equal number of days : hence the stratagem before
alluded to, for depriving the devil of the power of
doing them any harm on the only day on which that
power is granted to him.
In allusion to the cabalists, Pliny says, " There
is another sect of magicians of which Moses and
Latopea, Jews, were the first authors." It was the
prevailing opinion among the Hebrews, that the
Cabala was delivered by God to Moses, and thence
through a succession of ages, even to the times of
Ezra, preserved by tradition only, without the h,elp
of writing, in the same manner as the doctrine of
Pythagoras was delivered by Archippus and Lysiades,
who kept schools at Thebes in Greece, where the
scholars learned all their master's precepts by heart,
and employed their memories insteadofbooks. So cer-
tain Jews, despising letters, placed all their learning
in memory, observation, and verbal tradition; whence
it was called by them Cabala, that is, a receiving
from one to another by th~ ear an art said to be
very ancient and only known to the christians in
later times.
devil in the signification attached to it among christians ;
that is, as a creature revolted from God. Their theology
went no farther than to evil genii, or demons, who harassed
and persecuted mankind, though we are still aware that
many curious nick-names are given to the prince of dark·
ness both by ancient and modern writer~.
o;q;i?edb,Google .J.
• ;,i •••
ELUCIDATIOI"S OP THE MARVELLOUS. 37
The Jews divided the Cabala into three parts ; the
first containing the knowledge of Bresith, which
they call also cosmology, the object of which i!! to
teach and explain the force and efficacy of things
created, natural or celestial ; expounding also the laws
and mysteries of the Bible according to philosophical
reasons, which on that account differs little from
natural magic, a science in which King Solomon is
said to have excelled. We find, therefore, in the
Eacred histories of the Jews, that he was wont to
discourse from the cedar of the forests of Lebanon
to the low hyssop of the valley ; as also of cattle,
birds, reptiles, and fish, all which contain within
themselves a kind of magical virtue. Moses also,
in his expositions upon the Pentateuch, and most of
the Talmudists, have followed the rules of the same
art.
The other division of the Cabala contains the know-
ledge of thingS more sublime, as of divine and
angelical powers, the contemplation of sacred names
•and characters ; being a certain kind of symbolical
theology, in which the letters, figures, numbers,
names, point~. lines, accents, etc. are esteemed to
contain the significations of most profound things
and wonderful mysteries. This part again is twofold
-Authmantick, handling the nature of angels, the
powers, names, characters of spirits and souls
departed-and Theomantick, which searches into
the mysteries of the Divine Majesty, his emanations,
his names, and Pentacula, which he who attains to
is supposed to be endowed with most W()nderful
power. It was, they say, by virtue cf_this axt, that
Digi '"d by Google
38 THAUMATCRGlA, OR
Moses wrought so many miracles ; that Joshua
commanded the sun to stand still ; that Elias called
down fire from heaven ; that Daniel the prophet
muzzled the lions' mouths; and that the three children
sang in the fiery furnace. And, what is more, the
perfidious and unbelieving Jews, did not stick to aver,
that our Saviour himself wrought all his mimcles
by virtue of this art, and that be discovered sereral
of its secrets, containing a variety of charms
against devils, and also, as Josephus writes, against
diseases. " As for my part," says Cornelius Agrippa,
in allusion to this subject," I do not doubt but that
God revealed many things to Moses and the prophets,
which were contained under the <:overt of the words
of the law, which were not to be communicated to
the profane vulgar : so for this art, which the Jews
so much boast of, which I have with great labour
and diligence searched into, I must acknowledge it
to be a mere rhapsody of superstition, and nothing
but a kind of theurgic magic before spoken of. For
if, as the Jews contend, coming from God, it dido
any way conduce to perfection oflife, salvation ofmen,
truth of understanding, certainly that spirit of truth,
which having forsaken the synagogue, is now come
to teach us all truth, had never concealed it all·
this while from the church, which certainly knows
all those things that are of God ; whose grace,
baptism, and other sacraments of salvation, are per-
fectly revealed in all languages ;-for every language
is alike, so that there be the same piety; neither is
there any other name in heaven or on earth, by
which we can be saved, but only the name of Jesus.
1
BLt:CIDATIONS OF Tilll; MARVELLOUS, 3!i
Therefore the Jews, most skilful in divine nameto,
after the coming of Christ, were able to do nothing,
in comparison of their forefathers :-the Cabala of
the J_
ews, therefore, is nothing else, but a mol!t
pernicious superstition, the which by collecting,
dividing, and changing several names, words, and
letters, dispersed up and down in the bible, at their
own good will and pleasure, and making one thing
out of another, they diSsolve the members of truth,
raising up sentences, inductions, and parables of
their own, apply thereto the oracles of divine scripture
to them, defan'ring the scriptures, and affirming
their fragments to consist ·of them, blaspheme the
word of God by their wrested suppositions of words,
.syllableto, letters and numbers; endeavouring to
prop up their villainous inventions, by arguments
drawn from their own delusions."
bsrrr:;:~- ·.,. ·
Digi '"d by Google
40 THAUMATUBOIA, OR
CHAPTER III.
ON TBB SBVERAL KINDS OF MAOJC.
TuB pretended art of producing, by the assistance
of words and ceremonies, such events as are above ~
the natural power of men, was of several kinds, and
chieflthy co~~1~tedd in md··vokalii~g the go~.and beTbnevo~~t, ..
or e WIC'dl.e an m gnant sp1nts. e llfllt,
which was called Theurgia, was adopted by the j
wisest of the Pagan world, who esteemed this as
much as they despised the latter, which they called 1
Goetia. 1
Tbeurgia was by the philosophers accounted a ~
divine art, which only served to raise the mind to
higher perfection, and to exalt the soul to a greater
degree of purity; and they who by means of this
kind of magic, were imagined to arrive at what is
called intuition, wherein they enjoyed an intima~
intercourse with the deity, were believed to be in·
vested with divine power ; so that it was imagined
nothing was impossible for them to perform; all
who made profession of this kind of magic aspired
...
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVELLOUS. 4)
to this state of perfection. The priest, who was
of this order, was to be a man of unblemished
morals, and all who joined with him were bound to .
a strict purity of life. They were to abstain from
women, and from animal food ; and were •forbid to
defile themselves by the touch of a dead body.
Nothing was to be forgotten in their rites and cere-
monies; the least omission or mistake, rendered all
their art ineffectual : so that this was a constant
excuse for their not performing all that was required
of them, though u their sole employment (after
having arrived to a certain degree of perfection, by
fasting, prayer, and other methods of purification)
was the study of universal nature, they might gain
such an insight into physical causes, as would enable
them to perform actions, that should fill the vulgar
with astonishment; and it 'is hardly to be doubted,
bot this was all the knowledge that many of them
aspired to. In this sort of magic, Hermes Tres-
megistus and Zoroaster excelled, and indeed it
gained great.reputation among the Egyptians, Chal•
deans, Persians, Indians and Jews. In times of
ignorance, a piece of clock-work, or some other
curious machine, was sufficient to entitle the inventor
to the works of magic ; and some have even asserted,
that the .Egyptian magic, rendered so famous by
the writings of the ancients, consisted only in disco-
veries drawn from the mathematics, and natural
philosophy, since those Greek philosophers who tra-
velled into Egypt, in order to obtain a knowledge·of
the Egyptian sciences, returned with only a know-
Digi '"d by Google
42 TBAtiMATtJRGlA, OR
ledge of nature and religion, and some rational ideas
of their ancient symbols.
But it can hardly be doubted, that magic in its
grossest and most ridiculous sense was practised
in Egypt, at least among some of the vulgar. long
before Pythagoras or Empedocles travelled. into that
country. The Egyptians had been very early ac·
customed to vary the signification of their symbols,
by adding to them several.plants, ears of com, or
blades of grass, to express the different employ·
ments of husbandry ; but understanding no Ionge{
their meaning nor the words that had been made
use of on these occasions, which were equally unin·
teUigible, the vulgar might mistake these for so
many mysterious practices observed by their fathers;
and hence they might conceive the notion, that a
conjunction of plants, even without being made
use of IUl a remedy, might be of efficacy to preserve
or procure health. " Of these," adds the Abbe
Pluche, " they made a collection, and an art by .
which they pretended to procure the blessings, and
provide against the evils of life." By the a88i.stanee
of these, men even attempted to hurt their enemies;
and indeed the knowledge of poisonous or useful
simples, might on particular occasions give sufficient
weight to their empty curses and innovations. But
these magic incantations, so contrary to humanity,
were detested, and punished by almost all nations;
nor could they be tolerated in any.
Pliny, after mentioning an herb, the throwing of
which into an army, it was said, was s~cient to
-· -, \ .
··- .. ~--.....,
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 43
put it to the route, asks, where was this herb when
Rome was so distressed by the Cambri and Teutones?
Why did not the Persians make use of it when
Lucullus cut their troops to pieces ?
But amongst all the incantations of magic, the
most solemn, as well as the most frequent, was that
of calling up the spirits of the dead ; this indeed
.was the very acme of their art ; and the reader cannot
be displea...<aed with having this mystery here eluci-
dated. An affection for the body of a person, who •
in his life time was beloved, induced the first natives
to inter the dead in a decent manner, and to add
to this melancholy instance of esteem, those wishes
which had a particulw- regard to their new state of
existence. The place of burial, conformable· to the
custom of characterising all beloved places, or those
distinguished by a memorable event, was pointed
out by a large stone or pillar raised upon it. To
this place families, and when the concern was gene-
ral, multitudes repaired every year, when, upon
this stone, were made libations of wine, oil, honey,
and flour ; and here they sacrificed and ate in com-
mon, having first made a trench in wliich they
burnt the entrails of.the victim into which the liba-
tion and the blood were made to flow. They began
with thanking God with having given them life, and
providing them necessary f~ ; . and then praised
him for the good examples they had been favoured
"fith. From these melancholy rites were banished
all licentiousness and levity, and while other customs
changecl, these continued the same. They roasted
the flesh of .the victim they had offered, and eat it
·• r ..
Digi '"d by Google
44 THAUMATUR.OIA, OR.
in common, discoursing on the virtues of him they
came to lament.
All other feasts were distinguished by names
suitable to the ceremonies that attended them.
These funeral meetings were simply called the
manes, that is, the assembly. Thus the manes
and the dead were words that b~came synonimous.
In these meetings, they imagined that they renewed
their alliance with the deceased, who, they supposed,
had still a regard for the concerns of their country
and family, and who, as affectionate spirits, could
do no less than inform them of·whatever was neces-
sary lor them to know. Thus, the funerals of the
dead were at last converted into methods of divina-
tion, and an innocent institution of one of the gross-
est pieces of folly and superstition. But they did
not stop here; they became so extravagantly cre-
dulous, as to believe that the phantom drank the
libations that had been poured forth, while the
relations were feasting on the rest of the sacrifice
round the pit : and from hence they became appre-
hensive lest the rest of the dead should promiscuously
throng about this spot to get a share of the repast
they were supposed to be so fond of, and leave
nothing for the dear spirit for whom the feast was
intended. They then made two pits or ditches,
into one of which the)'>put wine, honey, water, and
flour, to employ the generality of the dead; and
in the other they poured the blood of the victim ;
when sitting down on the brink, they kept off, by
the sight of their swords, the crowd of dead who
had no concern in their affairs, while they called
..
±-==re--
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE M.\II.VBLLOUS, 45
him by name, whom they had a mind to cheer and
consult, and desired him to draw near.*
The qut:Stions made by the living were very intelli-
.gible ; but the answers of the dead were not so easily
understood ; the priests, therefore, and the magicians
madeittheir business to explain them.They retiredinto
deep caves, where the darkness and silence resembled
the state of death, and there fasted, and lny upon the
skins of the beasts they had sacrificed, and then gave
for answer the dreams which most affected them ; or
opened a certain book appointed for that purpose, and
gave the first sentence that offered.t At other times
the priest, or any person who came to consult, took
care at his going out of the cave, to listen to the first
words he should h«!ar, and these were to be his ans-
wer. And though they had not the most remote
relation to the matter in qaestion, they were twisted
so many ways, and their sense so violently wrested,
that they made them signify almost anything they
pleased. At other times they had recourse to anum-
• Homer gives the same account of these ceremonit>s,
when Ulysses raised the soul of Tiresias; and the same
usages are found in tbe poem of Silius ltalicus. And to
these ceremonies the scriptures freq~ ,.alwqe, when
tbe Israelites are forbid to assemble upon high pldces.
t The magical slumbers produced in the cave of Trophoj,
nius are justly ascribed to medicated bt>verages. Here, the
votary if he escaped witb life, had his health irreparably
injured, and the whole class of ~rtificial dreams and visions,
the elfect of some powerful narcotic acting upon the body
after tbe mind had been predisposed for a certain train of
ideas.
Digi '"d by Google
,....~..-:-...
•
*"'4....... 7 - .$J
46 TRAtlMATURGlA, OR
her of tickets, on which were some words or verses,
and these being thrown into an urn, the first that
was taken out was delivered to the family.* Health,
prosperity in worldly affairs, and all that was"'inter·
mixed in the good or evil of this world were regulated
by the responses or signs which these equivocal, not
to say le~s than absurd, means afforded, of prying into
the womb of future events.
AUGURY, OR DIVINATIONS DRAWN FROM THB
FLIGHT AND FBBDING OP BIRDS.
The superstitious fondness of mankind for searching
into futurity has given rise to an infinite variety of
• The MWte• prtt!tte8tifl4'1 were famous among the Greeks.
The method by which these lots were conducted WitS to put
so many letters or even whole words, into an urn; to shake
them together, and throw them out ; and whateYer should
chance to be made out in the arrangement of these letters or
words, composed the answer of the oracle. The ancienlll
also made use of dice, drawing tickets, etc., in casting or
deciding resi\Jts. In the Old Testament we meet with mRDy
standing and perpetual laws, and a number of particular
commands, prescribing and regulating the use of them.
We are informed by the Scripture that when a succeasor
to Judas in the apostolate was to be chosen, the Jot fell on
St. Mathias. And the garment or coat without a seam of
~ur Saviour was lotted for by the Jews. In Cicero's time
this mode of divination was at a very low ebb. The 1orte1
Honurictl! and sortes Virgitiantl! which succeeded the sorte1
Prtl!'nestime, gave rise tb the same means used among chris-
tians of casually opening the sacred books for directions in
important circumstances; to learn the consequence of evenCI
and what they had to fear among their rulers.
RLUCIDATIONS OF TBB MA'BVBLLOUS. 47
extravagant follies. The Romans, who were remark-
ably fertile in these sorts of demonological invention!!,
suggested numerous ways of divination. With them
all Na'lure had a voice, and the most senseless beings,
and mol!t trivial things, the most trifling incidents,
became presages of fqture events; which introduced
ceremonies founded on a mistaken knowledge of an.
tiquity, the most childish and ridiculou!!, and which
were performed with all the air of solemnity and
l!anctity of devotion. Augury, or divinations founded
on the flight of birds, were not only con!!idered by
the Egyptians as the symbols of the winds, but good
and bad omens of every kind were founded or rather •
derived from the flying of the feathered tribe.
The birds at this time had become wonderfully wise ;
and an owl, to whom, for reasons not precisely known,
light is not so agreeable as darkness, could not pass
by the windows of a sick person in the night, where
the creature was not offended by the glimmerings of
a light or candle, but his hooting must be considered
as prophesying, that the life of the poor man was
nearly wound up. (/II>
Amongst the Romans, these auguries were taken
U8Ually upon an eminence : after the month of March
they were prohibited in consequence of the moulting
season having commenced ; nor were they permitted
at the waning of the moon, nor at any time in the
afternoon, or when the air was the least ruffled by
winds or clouds. The feeding ofthe sacred chickens,
and the manner of their taking the com that was
offered to them, was the most common method of
taking the augury. Observations were also made on
Digi '"d by Google
48 TRAUMATURGIA, OR
the chattering or singing of birds, the hooting of
crows, pies, owls, etc., and from the running ofbeasts,
as heifers, asses, rams, hares, wolves, foxes, weasels
and mice, when these appeared in uncommon piace!,
crossed the way, or ran to the right or left. They
also pretended to draw a good or bad omen from the
most trifling actions or occurrences of life, as sneez·
ing, stumbling, starting, numbness of the li.ttle finger,
the tingling of the ear, the spilling of salt upon the
table, .or the wine upon one's clothes, the accidental
meeting of a bitch with whelp, etc. It was also the
business of the augur to interpret dreams, 'oraclet~,
and prodigies.
Nothing can be 80 surprising than to find 80 wise and
valorous a people as the Romans addicted to such
childish fooleries. Scipio, Augustus, and many others,
without any fatal consequences, despised the sacred
chickens, and other arts of divination : but when the
generals h11d miscarried in any enterprise, the people
laid the whole blame on the negligence with which
these oracles had been·consulted: and if an unfortunate
general ha~ neglected to consult them, the blame of
miscarriage was thrown upon him who had preferred
his O\Yn forecast to that of the fowls ; while those who
made these kinds of predictions a subject of raillery.
were accounted impious and profane. Thus they
construed, as a punishment of the gods, the defeat of
Claudius Pulcher; who, when the sacred chickens
refused to eat what was set before them, ordered them
to be thrown into the sea; " If they won't eat," said
he, " they shall drink."
Digi '"d by Google
,
i
ELUCIDATIONS OP TBB MARVJ:LLOUB. 49
ARUSPICBS, OR DIVINATIONS DILAWN PROII
BRUTE, OR BUIIAN SACRIJ'ICBS.
In the earliest ages of the world, a sense of piety
and a regard to decency had introduced the custom
of never eacrificing to Him, whence all blessings
emanated, any but the soundest, the most healthy, fat
and beautiful animals; which were always ex\mined
with the closest and most exact attention. This
,eeJ:'elllOn,JaJ, which doubtless had its origin in gratitude,
in some ideas of fitness and propriety, at length
into trifling niceties and superstitious
ceremonies. And it having been once imagined that
no favour was to be looked for from the gods, when
the vic~im was imperfect. the idea of perfection was
united with abundance of trivial circumstances. The
.entrails were examined with peculiar care, and if the
whole was without blemish, their duties were fulfilled :
under an assurance that they had engaged the gods
be on their side, they engaged in war, and in
·most hazardous undertakings, with such a confi•
• .,.._,~of success, as had the greatest tendency to pro-
:.cure it. All the motions of the victims that were led
.to the altar, were considered as so many prophecies.
tfthe victim advanced with an easy and natural air,
a Nraight line, .and without offering any resistance,
he made no extraordinary bellowing when he
received the blow,-if he did not get loose from the
B
Digi '"d by Google
so THAUMATURGIA, Ott
person who led him to the l!acrifice, it was deemed a
certain prognostic of an easy and flowing success.
The victim was knocked down, but before its belly
was ripped open, one of the lobes of the liver was
allotted to those who offered the eacrifice, and the
other to the enemies of the state. That which wu
neither .blemished nor withered, of a bright red, and
neither smaller nor larger than it ought to be, pro·
gnosticated great prosperity to those for whom it was
set apart ; that which was livid, small or corrupted,
presaged the most fatal mischiefs. The next thing
to be considered was the heart, which was al!!O
examined With the utmost care, as was the spleen, the
gall, and the lungs ; and if any of these were let fall,
if they smelt rank or were bloated, livid or withered,
it presaged nothing but misfortunes.
After the examination of the entrails.was over, the
fire was kindled, and from this also they drew several
presages. If the flame was clear, if it mounted up
without dividing, and went not out till the victim
was entirely consumed, this was a proof that the sa-
crifice was accepted ; but if they found it difficult to
kindle the fire, if the flame divided, if it played around
instead of taking hold of the victim, if it burnt ill, or
went out, it was a bad omen. The business, how-
ever, of the Aruspices was not confined to the altars
and saCrifices, they had an equal right to explain all
other portents. The Senate frequently consulted
them on the most extraordinary prodigies. The col-
lege of the Aruspices, as well as those of the other
Digi '"d by Google
.I
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB MABV.&LLOUB, !> 1
religions orders, had their registers and records, such
as memorials of thunder and lightning,• the Tuscan
histories,t etc.
DIVISIONS OJ' DIVINATION BY TBB ANCIBNT&--
PRODIGIBS, BTC,
Divinati<>!l was divided by the ancients into arti-
ficial and natural. The first is conducted by reason-
ing upon certain external signs, considered u indi-
cations of futurity ; the other consists in that which
presages things from a mere internal sense, and
persuasion of the mind, without any assistance of
signs ; and is of two kinds, the one from nature, and
the other by infiux. The first supposes that the
soul, collected within itself,· and not diffused or
divided among the organs of the body, has from its
own nature and essence, some fore-knowledge of
• Kennet's Roman Antiquities, Lib. XI, C. 4.
t Romulus, who founded the institution of the Aruspices,
borrowed it from the Tuscaus, to whom the Senate after·
wards sent twelve of the sons of the principal nobility to be
iostruc:ted in these mysteries, and the other ceremonies of
their religion.' The origin of this act among the people of
Tuscany, is related by Cicero in the following manner:
" A peasant," says ht', '' ploughing in the field, his plough-
share running pretty deep in the earth, turned up a clod, from
whence sprung a child, who taught him and the other Tuscaos
the art of divination." (Cicero, De Divioat. 1. 2.) This
fablt'., undoubtt'dly means no more, than that this child, said
to spring from the clod of earth. was a youth of a very mean
and obscure birth, but it is not knowa whether be was the
author of it, or whether be learnt it of the Greeks or any
other aationa.
• B 2
Digi '"d by Google
52 THAUMATURGIA, OR
future things ; witness, for instance, what is seen in
dreams, ecstasies, and on the confines of death. The
second supposes the soul after the manner of a
mirror to receive some secondary illumination from
the presence of God and other epirits. Artificial
divination is also of two kinds : the one argues from
natural causes, as in the predictions of physicians
relative to the event of diseases, froiQ the tongue,
pulse, etc. The second the consequence of experi·
men ts and observations arbitrarily instituted, and
is mostly superstitious. The systems of divina·
tion reduceable under these heads are almost incal·
culable. Among these were the Augurs or those
who drew their knowledge of futurity from the
flight, and various other actions of birds ; the
Aruspices, from the entrails of beasts; palmestry or
the lines of the hands ; points marked at random;
numbers, names, the motions of a scene, the air,
fire, the Prrenestine, Homerian, and Virgilian lots,
dreams, etc.
Whoever reads the Roman · historians• must be
surprised at the number of prodigies which are con·
stantly recorded, and which frequently filled the
people with the most dreadful apprehensions. It
must be confessed, that some of these seem altogether
supernatural ; while much the greater part only
consist of some of the uncommon productions of
nature, which superstition always attributed to a
superior cause, R.Dd represented as the prognostica·
• Particularly Livy, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Pliny,
and Valerius Maximus.
•
I
.KLUCJDATIONB OJ' THB IIARVBLLOUS, 53
tion of some impending misfortunes. Of this class
may be reckoned the appearance of two suns, the
nights illuminated by rays of light, the views of
fightin~ armies, swords, and spears, darting through
the air; showers of milk, of blood, of stones, of
ashes, of frogs, beasts with two heads, or infants
who had some feature resembling those of the brute
creation. These were all dreadful prodigies, which
filled the people with inexpressible astonishment, and
the Roman Empire with an extreme perplexity ; and
whatever unhappy circumstance followed upon these,
was sure to be either caused or predicted by them.*
• Nothing is more easy than tO account for these pro-
ductions, which have no relation to any events that may
happen to follow them. The appearance of two suus h11s
frequently happened in England, as· well 38 in other plac~s,
and is only caused by the clouds being placed in such a
situation, as to reftect the image of that luminary ; noc-
turnal fires, enftamed spears, fighting armies, were no more
than what we call the Aurora Borealis or northern lights,
or ignited vapoura Boating in the air ; showers of stones, of
uhes, or of fire, were no other than the effects of the
eruptions of some volcano at a considerable distance ;
showers of milk were caused by some quality in the air,
condensing, and giving a whitish colour to the water ; and
those of blood are now well known to be only the red spots
left upon the earth, on stones and le11ves of trees, by the
bntterfties which hatch in bot and stormy tber.
o'''ti"dbvGoogle
54 TRAUIIATURGU., Oil
•
CHAPTER IV.
BISTOllT OF OllACLBB-TRB PlliNCIPAL OllACLI!:B OJ'
ANTIQUITY.
FEw l!upenrtitions have been so fam011s, and so
seductive to the minds of men during a number of
ages, as oracles. In treaties of peace or truces, the
Greeks never forgot to stipulate for the liberty of re-
sorting to oracles. No colony undertook new settle-
ments,. no war was declared, no important afl"air
begun, without first consulting the oracles;
. The most renoWned oracles were those of Delphos,
Dodona, Trophonius, Jupiter Hammon, and the
Clarian Apollo. Some have attributed the oracles
of Dodona to oaks, others to pigeons. The opinion
of those pigeon-propheteeses "!88 introduced by the
equivocation of a Thessalian word, .which signified
both a pigeon and a woman ; and gave room to the
fahle, that two pigeons having taken wing from
Thebes, one of them fled into Lybia, where it oc-
casioned the establishing of the oracle of Jupiter
Hammon; and the other, having stopp~d in the
oaks of the forest" of Dodona, informed the inhabi-
tants of the neighbouring parts, that it was Jupiter's
intention there · should be an oracle in that' place.
Herodotus has thus explained the fable : there were
Digi '"d by Google
..
ll:LVCIDATIONS OP THE llAJlVJ;;LLOCS. 55
fonnerly two Priestesees of Thebes, who were
carried off by Phenecian merchants. She that was
sold into Greece, settled in the forest of Dodona..
where great numbers of the ancient inhabitants of
Greece went to gather acorns. She there erected a
little chapel at the foot of an oak, in honour of the
same Jupiter, whose priestess she had been; and
here it was this ancient oracle was established, which
in after times became so famous. The manner of
delivering the oracles of Dodona was very singular.
There were a great number of kettles suapended from
trees near a copper statue, which was also sus-
pended with a bunch of rods in its hand. When
the wind happened to put it in motion, it struck the
first kettle, which communicating its motion to the
next, all of them tingled, and produced a certain
sound which continued for a long time ; after whiclr
the oracle spoke.
THB OBACLB 01' .IUPITBB BAJIKOK.
This oracle, . which was in the desert, in the
midst of the burning sands of Africa, declared to
Alexander that Jupiter was his father. After several
questions, having asked if the death of his father was
suddenly revenged, the oracle answered, that the
death of Philip was revenged, but that the father
of Alexander was immortal. This oracle gave
occasion to Lucan to put great sentiments in the
mouth of Cato. After the battle of Pharsalia, when
Cellar· began to be master of the world. Labreuus
.aid to Cato : " /..$ we have now so good an oppor·
~--· ....
~-
Digi '"d by Google
•
56 THAUMATURGIA, OR
tunity of consulting so celebrated an oracle, let ns
know from it how to regulate our conduct during
this war. The gods will not declare themselves
more willingly for any one than Cato. You have
always been befriended by the gods, and may there-
fore have the confidence to converse with Jupiter.
Inform yourselves of the de!!tiny of the tyrant and
the fate of our country : whether we are to preserve
our liberty, or to lose the fruit of the war ; and you
may learn too what that virtue is to which you have
been elevated, and what its reward."
Cato, full of the divinity that was within him, re-
turned to Labrenus an answer worthy of an oracle :
" On what.account, Labrenus, would you have me
consult Jupiter ? Shall I ask him whether it be better
to lose life than liberty ? Whether life be a real good ?
We have within us, Labrenus, an oracle that can
answer all the~e questions. Nothing happens but by
the order of God. Let us not require of him to re-
peat to us what he has sufficiently engraved in our
hearts, Truth has not withdrawn into those deserts ;
it is nofgraved on those sands. The abode of God is
in heaven, in the earth, in the sea, and in virtuous
hearts. God speaks to us by all that we see, by all that
surrounds us. Let the inconstant and those that are
subject to waver, according to events, have recourse
to oracles. For my part, I find in nature every thing
that can inspire the most eonstant resolution. The
dastard, .as well as the brave, cannot avoid death.
Jupiter cannot tell us more." Cato thus spoke, and
quitted the country without consulting the oracle.
.ELUClDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 57
THE ORACLE OF DELPHOS, OR PYTHIAN APOLLO.
Diodorus Siculus, Plutarch, and several other au·
thors relate, that a herd of goats discovered the oracle
of Delphos, or of the Pythian Apollo. When a goat
happened to come near enough the cavern, to breathe
air that passed out of it, she returned skipping and
bounding about, and her voice articulated some extra-
ordinary sounds ; which having been observed by
the keepers, they went to look in, and were seized
with a fury which made them jump about, and fore-
tel future events. Coretas, as Plutarch tells, was
the name of the goat-herd who discovered the
oracle. One of the guardians of Demetrius, coming
too near the mouth of the cavern, was pu1focated bv
the force of the exhalations, and died suddenly. Th~
orifice or vent-hole of the cave was covered with a
tripod consecrated to Apollo, on which the priest-
esses, called Pythonesses,• sat, to fill themselves with
the prophetic vapour, and to conceive the spirit of
divination, with the fervor that made them know fu.
turity, and foretel it in Greek hexameters. Plutarch
• The responses here were deli_vered by a young priestess
called Pythia or l:'hrebas, placed on a tripos, or stool with
three feet, called also cortin11, from the skin of the serpent
Python with which it was co.. It is uncertain after what
manner these oracles were d:llfered, though Cicero supposes
the Pythoness was inspired, or rather intoxicated by certain
l'llpuors which ascended from the cave. Some say that the
Pythoness being once debauched, the oracles were afterwards
delirered by an old woman in_
the dress of a young maid.
Digi '"d by Google
58 TBAVKATVJI.OJA, Oll
says, that, on the cesl!ation of oracles, a Pythoness
was so ex<.-eBBively tormented by the vapour, and
sufFered such violent convulsions, that all the priests
ran away, and she died soon after.
CBR&KONIU PRACTISED ON CONSULTING OBACLJS.
Pausanias describes the ceremonies that were prac·
ticed for consulting the oracle of Trophonius. Every
man that went down into his cave, never r.ughed his
whole life after. This gave occasion to the proverbial
~~aying concerning those of a melancholy air : " He
has consulted Trophonius." Plato relates, that the
two brothers, Agamedes and Trophonius, having built
the temple of Apollo, and asked the god for a reward
what he thQught of most advantage to men, both
died in the night that succeeded their prayer. Pau-
aanias gives us a quite difFerent account. In the
palace there built for the King Hyrieus, they so laid
a stone, that it might be taken away, and in the night
they crept in through the hole they had thus con-
trived, to steal the king's treasures. The king
observing the quantity of his gold diminished, though
no locks nor seals had been broken open, fixed traps
about his cofFers, and Agamedes being caught in one
of them, Trophonius cut ofF his head to prevent his
discovering him. Trophonius having disappeared
that moment, it was gi.out that the earth had
swallowed him on the same spot; and impious superS-
tition went eo far as to place this wicked wretch in
the rank of the gods, and to consult his oracle with
ceremonies equally painful and mysterious.
Digi '"d by Google
li:LUCJDATJONS OF TBJI: KABVJ:LLOUS, 6$1
Tacitus thus speaks of the oracle of the Clarian
Apollo : Germanicus went to consult the oracle of Cla-
ros.. It is not a woman that delivers the oracle there,
as at Delphos, but a man chosen out of certain families,
and always of Miletum. It is sufficient to tell him the
number and names of those who come to consult him;
whereupon he retires into a grot, and having taken
some water out of a well that lies hid in it, he an-
swers you in verses tp whatever you have thought of,
though this man is often very ignorant.
Dion Cusius explains the manner in which the
oracle of Nymphrea, in Epirus, delivered its responses.
The party that consulted took incense, and having
prayed, threw the incense into the fire, the flame
pursned and consumed it. But if the affair was not
to succeed, the incense did not come near the fire, or
if it fell into the flame, it started out and fled. It
80 happened for prognosticating futurity, in regard
to every thing that was asked, except death and
marriage, about which it was not allowed to ask any
questions.
Those who consulted the oracle of Amphiarus, lay
on the skins of victims, and received the answer of
the oracle in a dream. Virgil attests the same thing
of the oracle of Faunus in Italy.
A governor of Cilicia, who gave little credit to
oracles, and who was always surrounded by unbeliev-
ing Epicureans sent a letter sealed with his signet to
the oracle of Mopsus, requiring one of those answers
that were received in a dream. The messenger
charged with the letter brought it back in the same
condition, not having been opened ; and informed
Digi '"d by Google
60 THAUKATURGIA, OR
him,· that he had seen in a dream a very well made
man, who said to him ' Black' without the addition
of even another word. Then the governor opening
the letter, assured the company, that he wanted to
know of the divinity, whether he should sacrifice a
white or black bull.
In the temple of the goddess of Syria, when the
statue of Apollo was inclined to deliver oracles, it
deviated, moved, and was full of agitations on its
pedestals. Then the priests carrying it on their
shoulders, it pushed and turned them on all sides,
and the high-priest, interrogating it on all sorts of
a1lhlrs, if it refused its consent, it drove the priests
back ; if otherwise, it made them advance.
Suetonius says, that, some months before the birth
of Augustus, an oracle was current, importing, that
nature was labouring at the production of a kirig, who
would be master of the Roman Empire ; that the
Senate in great consternation, had forbid the rearing
of any male children who should be born that year,
but that the senators whose wives were pregnant,
found means to hinder the inscribing of the decree in
the public registers. It seems that the prediction, of
which Augustus was only the type, regarded the birth
of Jesus Christ, the spiritual king of the whole ~orld ;
or thatthe wicked spirit was willing, by suggesting this
rigorous decree to the Senate, to depose Herod ; and
by this example, to involve the Messiah in the massa-
cre that was made by his orders of all the children of
two years and under. The whole world was then full
ofthe coming of the Messiah. We see by Virgil's
fourth eclogue, that he applies to the son of the Consul
'&LUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. 61
Asinius Pollio the 4Jrophecies which, from the Jews,
had then passed into foreign nations. This child
the object of Virgil's flattery, died the ninth dey after
he was born. Tacitus, Suetonius, and Josephus,
applied to Vespasian the propbecies that regarded the
Messiah.
•
ORACLES OFTEN EQUIVOCAL AND OBSCURE,
The oracles were often very equivocal, or so obs-
cure that their signification was not understood but
after the event. A few examples, out of a great
many, will be sufficient.
Crresu@, having received from the Pythoness, this
answer, that by paS@ing the river Halys, he would
destroy a great empire: he understood it to be the
empire of his enemy, whereas he de@troyed his own.
The oracle consulted by Pyrrhus, gave him an answer,
which might be equally understood of the victory of
Pyrrbus, and the victory of the Romans his enemies.
Aio te JEacida, Romanos vincere posse.
The equivocation lies in the construction of the La-
tin tongue, which cannot be rendered in English.
The Pythoness advises Crresus to guard against the
mule.* The king of Lydia understood nothing of the
• ·This answer of the oracle brings to our recollection the
eqnally remarkable injunction of a modern seer to SirWilliam
Windham, wliich is related in the memoirs ofBishop Newton.
" In his younger years, when Sir William was abroad upon
hit travele, and was at Venice, there was a noted fortune-
Digi '"d by Google
62 TRAUIIlATURGIA, OR
oracle, which denoted Cyrus des4tnded from two dif·
ferent nations. from the Medes by Mandana his
mother, the daughter of Astyages ; and by the Per·
eians by his father Cambyses, whose race was by far
less grand and illustrious. Nero had for answer from
the oracle of Delphos, that seventy-three might prove
•tal to him, he believed he was safe from all danger
till age, but, finding himself deserted by every one,
and hearing Galba proclaimed emperor, who was
seventy-three yea~ of age, he was sensible of the
deceit of the oracle.
St. Jerome observes, that, if the devils speak any
truth, by whatever accident they always join lies to it
and use such ambiguons expressions, that they may be
equally applied to contrary $vents.
teller, to whom great numbers resorted, and be among the
rest ; and the fortune-teller told him, that be must beware
of a white bone. After his return to England, as he was
walking by Cblll'ing-Cross, he saw a crowd of people coming
out and going in to a bouse, and inquired what was the mean-
ing of it, was informed that Duncan Campbell, the dumb
fortune-teller lived there. His curiosity also led him in, and
Dun~an Campbell likewise told him that be must beware of a
white horse. It was somewhat extraordinary that two
fortune-tellers, one at Venice and the other in London, with·
out any communication, and at some distance of time, should
both happen to hit upon the same thing, and to give the very
same warning. Some years afterwards, when be was taken
up in 1715, and committed to the Tower upon suspicion of
treasonable practices, which never appeared, his friends said
to him that his fortune was now fulfilled, the Hanover House
was the white horse whereof he was admonishE>d to beware.
But some time after this, be had a fall from a white horse,
and received a blow by which he lost the sight of one of hie
eyes."
Digi '"d by Google
I
;p; -id ea
.ILUCIDATIONB OP TUB IUJl''ltLLOUB. 63
URIM AND TBUMMIJI.
Whilst the false oracles of demons deceived the
idolatrous nations, truth had retired from among the
ch08ell people of God. The eeptuagint have inter·
preted Urim and Thummim, manifestation and truth,
~.,A.,.,,v ''~' ciXq6f1av ; which expreNell how different
those divine oracles were from the false and equivo-
cal demons. It is said, in the Book of Numbers, that
Eleazar, the successor of Aaron, ehal.l interrogate
Urim in form, and that a reaolution shall be taken
according to the answer given.
The Ephod applied to the chest of the sacerdotal
vestments of the high-priest, was a piece of stuff
covered with twelve precious atones, on which the
names of the twelve tribes were engraved. It was
not allowed to consult the Lord by Urim and Thum-
mim, but for the king, the president of the sanhedrim,
the general of the army, and other public persons,
and on affairs that regarded the general interest of
the nation. If the affair was to succeed, the stones of
the ephod emitted a sparkling light, or the high-
priest inspired predicted the success. Josephus, who
was born thirty-nine years after Christ, says that it ·
was then two hundred years since the stones of the
ephod had given an answer to consultations by their
extraordinary lustre.
The Scriptures only inform us, that Urim and
Thummim were something that Moses had put in the
high-priest's breast-plate. Some Rabbins by rash con-
Digi '"d by Google
THAUHA.TUROIA, OR
jectures, have believed that they were two small
statues hidden within the breast-plate ; others, the
inetrahle name of God, graved in a myaterioua man·
ner. Without designing to d.iacem what has not
been explained to ua, we should understand by UriM
and Tlwmmim, the divine inspiration annexed to the
consecrated breast-plate.
Several pasaagea of Scripture leave room to believe,
that an articulate voice came forth from the propitia·
tory, or holy of holies, beyond the VE'il of the taber·
nacle, and that this voice waa heard by the high-priest.
If the Urim and Thummim did not make answer, it
waa a sign of God's anger. Saul abandoned by the
spirit of the Lord, consulted it in vain, and obtained
no sort of answer. It appears by some passa,ooes of
St. John's Gospel, that in the time of Christ, the
exercise of the:chief-priesthood, waa still attended with
the gift of prophecy•
•
RBl'UTATION OF ORACLBS, HOW LOST,
When men began to be better instructed by the
lights philosophy had introduced into the world, the
false oracles insensibly lost their credit. Chrysippus
filled an entire volume with false or doubtful oraclea.
<Enomanus,* to be revenged of some oracle that had
• " When we come to consult thee," says he to Apollo,
" if thou seest wh11t is in the womb of futurity, why dost
thou use expressions which will not be understood ? lf thou
dost, thou takest pleasure in abusing us : if thou dost not.
be informed of us, and learn to speak more clearly. I tell
thee, that if thou intendeat an equivoque, the Greek word-
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB MARVELLOUS. 63
deceived him, made a compilation of oracles, to shew
theirabsurdity and vanity. But <Enomanu.s is still more
out of bumour with the oracle for the answer which
Apollo gave the Athenians, when Xerxes was about
to attack Greece with all the strength of Asia. The
Pythian declared, that Minen-a, the protectress of
Athens, had endeavoured in vain to appease the
wrathofJupiter: yet that Jupiter, in complaisance with
his daughter, was willing the Athenians shonld !!ecure
themselves within wooden walls; and that Salamis
should behold the lo!!S of a great many children, dead
to their mothers, either when Ceres was spread
~road, or gathered together. At this <Enomanus
loses all patience with the Delphian God : •' This
contest," exclaims he, " between father and daugh-
ter, is very becoming the deities ! It is excellent
that there should be contrary inclinations and interests
in heaven ! Poor wizzard, thou art ignorant who
the children a"' that shall see Salamis perish ;
whether Greeks or Persians. It is certain they mm~t
either be one or the other ; but thou needest not have
told so openly that thou knowest not what. Thou
concealest the time of the battle tmder these fine
poetical expressions • either when Ceres is spread
abroad, or gathered together :' and thou wouldst ca-
whereby thou affirmest that Crresus should overthrow a great
empire, was ill·ehost>n ; and that it could signify nothing
but Crresus conquering Cyrus. If things must necessarily
rome to pass, why dost thou amuse us with thy arnbi.guities?
What dost thou, wrutch as thou art, at Delphi, employed in
muttering idle prophecies !"-See " Demonologia, or Natural
li:nwleci¥;e revealed," p. 162.
p
Digi '"d by Google
ti6 THAUMATUROIA, OR
jole us with such pompous language ! who knows not
that if there be a sea-fight, it must either be in seed·
time or.harvest? It is certain it cannot be in winter.
Let things go how they will, thou wilt secure thyself
by this Jupiter whom Minerva is endeavouring to
appease. If the Greeks lose the battle, Jupiter
proved inexorable to the last; if they gain it, why
then Minerva at length prevailed.''"'
Eusebius has preserved some fragments of this
criticism on oracles by <Enomanus. " I might,"
says Origen, " have recourse to the authority of
Aristotle, aud the Peripatetics, to make the Pytho-
neBB much suspected. I might extract from the
writings of Epicurus and his sectators an abundance
of things to discredit oracles ; and I might shew
that the. Greeks themselves made no great account of
them.''
The reputation of oracles was greatly lessened
when they became an artifice of politics. Themis·
tocles, with a design of engaging the Athenians to
quit Athens, in order to be in a better condition to
resist Xerxes, made the Pythoness deliver an oracle,
commanding them to take refuge in wooden walls.
Demosthenes said, that the Pythoness philippised,
to signify that she was gained over by Philip's pre•
sents.
CESSATION OF ORACLES.
The cessation of oracles is attested by several
prophane authors, as Strabo, Juvenal, Lucien,
• See Demonologia, p. 163.
Digi '"d by Google
RLUCIDATIONS OP TBB MARVELLOUS. 67
Lucan, IUld others. Plutarch accounts for the cause
of it, either that the benefits of the gods are not
t eternal, as themselves are ; or that the genii who
presided over oracles, are subject to death ; or that
the exhalations of the earth had been exhausted. It
appears that the last reason had been alleged in the
time of Cicero, who ridicules it in his second book
of Divination, as if the spirit of prophecy, supposed
to be excited by subterranean effluvia, had evaporated
by length of time, as wine or pickle by being kept
is lost.
Suida£1, Nicephorus, and Cedrenus relate, that
Augustus having consulted the oracle of Delphos,
oould obtain no other answer but this : • the Hebrew
child whom all the gods obey, drives me hence,
and sends me back to hell : get out of this temple
without speaking one word.' Suidas adds, that
Augustus dedicated an altar in the Capitol, with the
following inscription :
" To the eldest Son of God.''
Notwithstanding these testimonies, the answer of
the oracle of Delphos to Augustus seems very
snspicious. Cedrenus cites Eusebius fott this oracle,
·which is not now found in his works ; and Augustus'
peregrination into Greece was eighteen years before
the birth of Christ.
Suidas and Cedrenus give an account also of
an ancient oracle delivered to Thules, a king of
Egypt, which they say is well authenticated. This
king having consulted the oracle of Seraphis, to
know if there ever was, or would be, one so great
F 2
Digi '"d by Google
6S TBAUMATUROIA, OR
as himself, received this answer:-" First, God,
next the word, and the epirit with them. They are
equally eternal, and make but one whose power will
never end. But thou, mortal, go hence, and think
that the end of man's life is uncertain,"
Van Dale, in his Treatise of oracles, does not be·
lieve that they ceaeed at the coming of Christ. He
relates several examples of oracles consulted till the
death of Theodosius the Great. He quotes the
laws ofthe Emperors Theodosius, Gratian, and Valen·
tinian, against those who consulted oracles, as a
certain proof that the superstition of oracles still
existed in the time of those emperors.
HAD DEMONS ANY BHARli: lN THB ORACLES ?
The opinion of those who believe that the demons
had no share in the oracles, and that the coming of
the Messiah made no change in them : and the
contrary opinion of those who pretend that the in-
carnation of the word imposed a genei:al silence on
oracles, should be equally rejected. The reasons
appear from what has been said, and therefore two
sorts of oracles ought to be distinguished, the one
dictated by the spirits of darkness. who deceived
men by their obscure and doubtful answers, the
other the pure artifice and deceit of the priests of
false divinities.* As to the oracles given out by
" " Among the more learned, it is a pretty general opi-
nion that all the orllcles were mere cheats and impostures ;
calculated either to serve the avaricious ends of the heatl•en.
ish priests, or the political views of the princes. Bayle
por.itil·el) asserts, that they were mere human artifices. in
Digi '"d by Google
•
'
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THE MABVBLLOUS. 69
demons, the reign of Satan was de!!troyed by the
coming of the Saviour ; truth shut the mouth of false-
hood ; but Satan continued his old craft among idola-
ters. All the devils were not forced to silence at
the same time by the coming of the Messiah ; it
was on particular occasions that the truth of chris-
tianity, and the virtue of christians imposed silence
on the devils. St. Athanasius tells the pagans,
they have been witnesses themselves that the sign of
the cross puts the devils to flight, silences oracles,
and dissipates enchantments.
This power of silencing oracles, and putting the
devils to flight, is also attested by Arnobius, Lac-
tantius, Prudentius, Minutius, Felix, and several
others. Their testimony is a certain proof that
the coming of the Messiah had not imposed a
general silence on oracles.
The Emperor Julian, called the Apostate, con-
sulting the oracle of Apollo, in the suburbs of
Antioch, the devil could make him no other answer,
than that the body of St. Babylas, buried in the
neighbourhood, imposed silence on him. The Em-
peror, transported with rage and vexation, resolved
to revenge his gods, by eluding a solemn predic-
tion of Christ. He ordered the Jews to rebuild the
temple of Jerusalem ; but in beginning to dig the
foundations, balls of fire burst out, and consumed
which the devil bad no hand. In this opinion be is strongly
supported by Van Dale, a Dutch physician, and M. Fonte-
aelle, who have expressly written on ,the subject."-Yide
DNntmologia, op. citat. p. 159.
Pigi '"d by Google
70 TIIAUHATU&GIA, OR
the artificers, their tools and materials. These
facta are attested by Ammianus Marcellinus, a pagan.
and the emperor's historian; and by St. Chrysostom,
St. Gregory Nazianzen, and Theodoret, Sozomen
and Socrates, in their ecclesiastical histories. The
sophist Libanius, who was an enemy of the Chris-
tians, confessed also that St. Babylas had silenced
the oracle of Apollo, in the suburbs of Antioch.
Plutarch relates that the pilot Thamus heard a
voice in the air, crying out:-" The great Pan is
dead:" whereupon Eusebius observes, that the deaths
of the demons were frequent in the reign of Tib6-
rius, when Christ drove out the wicked spirits. The
same judgments may be passed on oracles as on
possessions. It was on particular OCCRsions, by the
divine permission, that the christians cast out devils,
or silenced oracles, in the presence and even by the
confession of the pagans themaelves. And thus it
is we should, it seem8, understand the passages of
St. Jerom, Eusebius, Cyril, Theodoret, Prudentius,
and other authors, who said, that the coming of
Christ had imposed silence on the oracles.
011' ORACLES, THB ARTIJI'IC.KS 011' PRIESTS 011' FALSE
DIVlNlTIKS.
As regards the eecond sort of oracles, which were
pure artifices and cheats of the priests of false divi- '
nities, and which probably exceeded the numbers of
those that immediately proceed from demons, they
did not cease till idolatry was abolished, though
they had lost their credit for a considerable time
I
____o,o. '"d bLGoog!~-~ .,......,.J
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS, 71
before the coming of Christ. It was concerning this
more common and general sort of oracles that
Minutius Felix said, they began to discontinue their
responses, according as men began to be more polite.
But, howsoever decried oracles were, impostors
always found dopes ; the grossest cheats having never
failed.
Daniel diacovered the imposture of the priests of
Bel, who had a private way of getting into the
temple, to take away the offered meats, and
made the king believe that the idol consumed them.
)fundus, being in love with Paulina, the eldest of
the priestesses of Isis, went and told her that the
god Anubis, being passionately fond of her, com-
manded her to give him a meeting. She was after-
wards shut up in a dark room, where her lover
Mundus (whom she believed to be the god Anubis,)
was concealed. This imposture having been dis-
covered, Tiberius ordered those detestable priests
and priestesses to be crucified, and with them Iolea
Mundus's free woman, who had conducted the whole
intrigue. He also commanded the temple of Isis to
be levelled with the ground, her statue to be thrown
into the Tiber, and, _as to Mundue, he contented
himself with sending him into banishment.
Theophilus, Bishop of Alexandria, not only
destroyed the temples of the gods, but discovered
the cheats of the priests, by shewing that the statues,
some of which were of brass, and others of wood,
were hollow within, and led into dark passages
made in the wall.
Lucius in discovering the impostures of the false
Digi '"d by Google
THAUHATUROIA, OR
prophet Alexander, says, that the oracles were
chiefly afraid of the subtilties of the Epicureans
and Christians. The false prophet Alexander some-
times feigned himself seized with a divine fury, and
by means of the herb sopewort, which he chewed,
frothed at the mouth in so extraordinary a manner,
that the ignorant people attributed it to the power
of the god he was possessed by. He had long
before prepared the head of a dragon made of linen,
which opened and shut its mouth by means of a
horses hair. He went by night to a place where the
foundations of a temple were digging, and having
found water, either of a spring or rain thathad settled
there, he hid in it a goose egg, in which he had
inclosed a little serpent that had just been hatched.
The next day, very early in the morning, he came
quite naked into the street, having only a scarf about
his middle, holding in his hand a scythe, and tossing
about his hair as the priests of Cybele ; then getting
on the top of a high altar, he said that the place was
happy to be honoured by the birth of a god. After-
wards running down to the place where he had hid
the goose egg, and going into the water, he began
to sing the praises of Apollo and 1Esculapius, and to
invite the latter to come and shew himself to men ; I
with these words he dips a bowl into the water and 1
takes out a mysterious egg, which had a god enclosed ·
in it, and when he held it in his hand, he began to 1
say that he held 1Esculapius, whilst all were eager
to have a sight of this fine mystery, he broke the
egg, and the little serpent starting out, twisted
itself about his fingers.
~-.-....--. :
Digii?edb,Googl~:--""·•,.--......1
ELUCIDATIONS Oll' TB8 MARVKLLOUS. j'3
These examples shew clearly, that both christians
and pagans were so far agreed as to treat the greater
number of oracles as purely human impostures.
From the very nature of things, much that now
serves for amusement must formerly have been
appropriated to a higher destination. Ventriloquism
may be quoted as a case in point, a1fording a ready
and plausible solution of the oracular stones and oaks,
of the reply which the seer Nessus addressed to Pytha.
goras, ('' Jamblichus, Vit. Pyth. xxxiii.) and of
the tree which at the command of the Gymnos-
ophists, of upper Egypt, spoke to Apollonius. " The
voice," says Philostratus (Vit. Ap. xi. 5) " was dis-
tinct but weak, and similar to the voice of a woman."
But the oracles, at least if we ascend to their origin,
were not altogether imposture£~. The pretended
interpreters of the decrees of destiny were frequently
plunged into a sort of delirium, and when inhaling
the fumes of some intoxicating drug or powerful gas
or vapour, or thinking some beverage which produced
a temporary suspension of the reason, the mind
of the enquirer was predisposed to feverish dreams :*
• We learn from Herodotus (iv. 75) that the Scythians
and Tartars intoxicated themselves by inhaling the vapour
ofa species of hemp thrown upon red hot stones. And the
odour ofthe seeds of henbane alone, when its power is aug-
meuled by beat, produces a choleric and quarrelsome dis-
position in those who inhale the vapour arising from them
io this state. And in the " Dictionnaire de Medecine,"
(de l'Encyclopedie Methodique, vii. art. Juaquiaume) in-
Jtauces are quoted, the most remarkable of which is, thv.t
if a married pair who, though living in perfect harmony
Digi '"d by Google
..
THAUMATURGJA, OR
if priestcraft were concerned in the interpretation
of such dreams, or eliciting senses from the wild
effusi01:s of the disordered brain of the Pythoness,
Science presided over the investigation of the causes
of this phrenZ)·, and the advantages which the
Thaumaturgists might derive from it. Jamblicus
states (de Mysterius C. xxix) that for obtaining a
revt:lation from the Deity in a dream, the youngest
and most simple creatures were the most proper
for succeeding : they were prepared for it by magical
invocations and fumigations of particular perfumes.
Porphyry declares that these proceedings had an
influence on the imagination ; Jamblicus that they
rendered them more worthy of the inspiration of the
Deity.
evel'y where else, could never remain for a few hours in the
room where they worked without quarrelling. The apart·
ment of course wBl! thought to be bewitched, until it was
discovered that a considerable quantity of seeds of henbane
were deposited near the stove, which was the cause of their
daily dissensions, the removal of which put an end to their
bickerings. Tbe same effects that were produced by draugh\8
and fumigations would follow from the application of
liniments, of " Magical Unctions," acting through the
absorbent system, M if they had been introduced into the
stomach :allusions to these ointments are constantly recurring
in ancient·authors. l'hilostratus, in his life of Apollonius
(iii. 5) states that the bodies of his companions, before being
admitted to the mysteries of the Indian sages, were rubbed
0\·er with so active an oil, that it appeared as if they were
batbed with fire.
BLUCJDATIONS OF THE JIIJARVELLOUS.
...
,.,
CHAPTER V.
THE BRITISH DRUIDS, OR MAGI-ORIGIN' OP PAJRJI!S
-ANCIENT SUPERSTITIONS-THEIR SKILL IN
IIBDBCINB, &c.
TnB British Druids, like the Indian Gymnoso-
phists, or the Persian Magi, had two sets of doctrines;
the first for the initiated ; the second for the people.
That there is one God the creator of heaven and
earth, was a secret doctrine of the Brachmans. And
the nature and perfection of the deity were among
the druidical arcana.
Among the sublimer tenets of the druidical priest-
hood, we have every where apparent proofs of their
polytheism : and the grossness of their religious idea~,
as represented by some writers, is very inconsistent
with that divine philosophy which has been considered
as a part of their character. These, however, were
popular divinities which the Druids ostensibly wor-
ahipped, and popular notions which they ostensibly
adopted, in conformity with the prejudices of the
9, '"d by Coogle
76 THAUMATUROIA, Oa
vulgar. The Druids well knew that the com-
mon people were no philosophers. There is rea-
son also, to think that a great part of the idola-
tries were not sanctioned by the Druids, but after-
wards introduced by the Phrenician colony. But
it would be impossible to say how far the primitive
Druids accommodated themselves to vulgar supersti-
tion, or to separate their exterior doctrines and
ceremonies from the fables and absurd rites of sub-
sequent times. It would be vain to attempt to enume-
rate their gods : in the eye of the vulgar they defied
everything around them. They worshipped the spirits
of the mountains, the vallies, and the rivers. Every
rock and every ·spring were either the instruments
or the objects of admiration. The moon}ight vallies
of Danmonium werl' filled with the fairy people, and
its numerous riverH were the resort of genii.
The fiction of fairies is supposed to have been
brought, with other extravagancies of a like nature
from the Eastern nations, whilst the Europeans
and christians were engaged in the holy war : such
at least is the notion of an ingenious writer, who
thus expresses himself: " Nor were the monstrous
embellishments of enchantments the invention of
romancers, but formed upon Eastern tales, brought
thence by travellers from their crusades and pilgri-
mages, which indeed, have a cast peculiar to the
wild imagination of the Eastern people."*
• Supplement to the translated preface to Jarvis's Don
Quixote.
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVBLLOUII. 77
That fairies. in particular, came from the East, we
are assured by that learned orientalist, M. Herbelot,
who tells us that the Persians called the fairies Peri,
and the Arabs Genies, that according to the Ea!!tern
fiction, there is a certain country inhabited by fairies,
called Gennistan, which answers to our fairy·land.*
Mr. Martin, in his observations on Spencer's Fairy
Queen, is decided in his opinion, that the fairies
came from the East ; but he justly remarks, that
they were introduced into the country long before
the period of the crusades. The race of fairies, he
informs us, was established in Europe in very early
times, but, '' not universally." The fairies were
confined to the north of Europe-to the ultima Thule-
to the British isles-to the divisis orbe Britannia.
They were unknown at this remote era to the Gauls
or the Germans : and they were probably familiar
to the vallies of Scotland and Danmonium, when
Ganl and Germany were yet unpeopled either by
real or imaginary beings. The belief indeed, of
such invisible agents assigned to different parts of
nature, prevails at this very day in Scotland, -Devon·
shire and Cornwall, regularly transmitted from the
remotest antiquity to the present times, and totally
unconnected with the spurious romance of the crusa-
der or the pilgrim. Hence those superstitious notions
• That the Druids worshipped rocks, stones, and foun-
tains, and imagined them inhabited, and actuated by divin~
i'lllt!llilf~cu ofa lower rank, may plotlnly be inferred from
their stone monuments. These inferior deities the Cornish
rall 6priggian, or 8pirits, which answer to genii or fairies ;
Digi '"d by Google
7S TBAUMATURGIA, OR
now existing in our western villages, where the
spriggim* are still believed to delude benighted
travellers, to discover hidden treasures, to influence
the weather, and to raise the winds. " This," says
Warton, •• strengthens the hypotheses of the northern
parts of Europe being peopled by colonies from the
east!"
The inhabitants of Shetland and the Isles pour
libations of milk or beer through a holed-stone, in
honour of the spirit Brownie ; and it is probable the
Danmonii were accustomed to sacrifice to the same
spirit, since the Cornish and the Devonians oil the
border of Cornwall, invoke to this day the spirit
Brownie, on the swarming of their bees.
With respect to rivers, it is a certain fact that the
primitive Britons paid them divine honours; even now,
in many parts of Devonshire and Cornwall, the
vulgar may be said to worship brooks and wells, to
which they resort at stated periods, performing
various ceremonies in honour of those consecrated
waters : and the Highlanders, to this day, talk with
great respect of the genius of the sea ; never bathe
in a fountain, lest the elegant spirit that resides in
it should be offended and remove ; and mention not
the water of rivers without prefixing to it the name
of excellent ; and in one of the western islands the
inhabitants retained the custom, to the close of the
and the vulgar in Cornwall still discourse of them, as of real
beings.
• See Macpherson's Introduction to the history of great
Britain and Ireland.
BLUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 79
last Century, of making an annual sacrifice to the
genius of the ocean. That at thie day the inhabitants
-of India deify their principal rivers is a well known
fact ; the waters of the Ganges possess an uncommon
sanctity ; and the modem Arabians, like the lshma-
elites of old, concur with the Danmonii in their
reverence of springs and fountains. Even the names
of the Arabian and Danmonian wells have a striking
correspondence. We have the singing-well; or the
IDhite-fountain, and there are springs with similar
names in the deserts of Arabia. Perhaps the vene-
ration of th~ Danmonii for fountains and rh·ers may
be accepted as no trivial proof, to be thrown into
the mass of circumstantial evidence, in favour of
their Eastern original. That the Arabs in their
thirsty deserts, should even adore their wells of
"springing water," need not excite our surprise,
but we may justly wonder at the inhabitants of
Devonshire and Cornwall thus worshipping the gods
ofIlllmerous rivers, and never failing brooks, familiar
to every part of Danmonium.
The principal times ~f devotion among the Druids
were either mid-day or midnight. The officiating
Druid was cloathed in a white garment that swept
the ground; on his head, he wore the tiara; he had
the anguinum or serpent's egg, as the ensign of his
order ; his temples were encircled with a wreath of
oak.leaves, and he waved in his hand the magic
rod. As regards the Druid sacrifice there are vague
and contradictory representations. It is certain,
however, that they offered human victims to their
gods. They taught that the punishment of the
Digi '"d by Google
80 TRACXATt:RGIA, OR
~;eked might be obliterated by sacrifices to Baal.•
The ~ce of the black sheep, therefore, was
offered up for the souh< of the departed, and various
~es of charms exhibited. Traces of the holy
fires, and fire-worship of the Druidst may be observed
• This idol, whieh is called by the Septuagint, 8aal, is
mentioned in other pans of scripture by other names. "To
understand what this god was, we !pRY observe, that the
deities of the Greeks and Romans eome from the East;
and it is a tradition among the ancient and modem heathens
that this idol was an ob.'<Core deity, which may Plead excuse
for not translating some pas~~ajrea concerning it; and this is
agrreable to Hosea (ix. 10). They We'lll ovt into Baal Ph~or,
and sryarat~ tllnlu~lve• to tloeir shame. And it is the opi.
nion of Jerome, who quotes it from an ancient tradition of the
Jews, that Baal Pheor is the Prinp'IU of the Greeks and
Romans ; and if you look into the vulgar latin (1 Kings xv.
13.) \ve shall find it thus rendered, a11d Asa, th~ King removed
Maacha, his fiWtkerfrom being qu.eNt, that 1he might no longer
be high Prielle11 ;,. the 1acrijiu• of Priflpw. And he de·
stroyed the grove she had Lonsecrated, and broke the most
filthy idol, and burnt it at the brook Kedrtm. Dr. Cum·
berland inserts, that the import of tbe word P~or, or Baal
Pheor, is he that 5hews boastingly or publicly, his n&ked-
ncss. \Vomen to avoid barrenness, were to sit on this
filthy image, as the source of fruitfulness ; for which Lac-
tantius and Augustine justly deride the heathens.
t There was an awful mysteriousness in the original
Druid sacrifice. Descanting upon the human sacrifices of vari-
ous countries, Mr. Bryant informs us, that among the
nations of Canaan, tlu victims were chosen in a pn:uliar
man11er; their own children, and whatsoever was neare&t
and dearest to tl•em, were thought the most worthy olferinga
to their gods ! The Carthagenians, who were a colony from
Tyre, carried with them the religion of tht'ir mother country
•
ELUCIDATIONS OP TBB MARVELLOUS. 8)
in several customs, both of the Devonians and the
Cornish ; but in Ireland may still be seen the holy
fires in all their soletnnity. The Irish call the month
of May Bel-tine, or fire of Belus; and the fil'l!t of
May Label-line, or the day of Belus's fire. In an
old Irish glol!sary, it is mentioned that the Druids
of Ireland used to light two solemn fires every year,
through which aU. four-footed beasts were driven,
as a preservative against contagious distempers.
The Irish have this custom at the present mQment,
they kindle the fire in the milking yards; men,
women, and children pass through or leap over it,
and their cattle are driven through the ftames of the
burning straw, on the first of May ; and in the
month of November, they have also their fire feasts
when, according to the custom of the Danmonians,
as well as the Irish Druids, the bills were enveloped
in flame. PrevioUI!ly to this solemnity (on the eve
of November) the fire in every private house was
extinguished ; hither, then, the people were obliged
to resort, in order to rekindle it. The ancient
Persians named the month of November, .Adur or
fire Adur, according to Richardson was the angel
presiding over that element, in consequence of
which, on the ninth, his name-day, the country
blazed all around with ftaming piles, whilst the
and instituted the same worship in the parts where they
were seated. Parents offered up their own children as
dearest to themselves, and therefore the more acceptable
to the deity: they sacrificed " the fruit oftheir body for the
sin of their soul." Till! Druids, no doubt, were actuated
with the same views.
0
Digi '"d by Google
82 THAUMATURGJA, OR
magi, by the injunction of Zoroaster, visited with
great solemnity all the temples of fire througho•1t
the empire ; which, on this occasion, were adorned
and illuminated in a most splendid manner. Hence
our British illuminations in November had probably
their origin. It was at this season that Baal Sam/w.m
called the souls to judgment, which, according
to their deserts, were assigned to re-enter the bodies
of men or brutes, and to be happy or miserable
during their next abode on the earth.
The primitive christians, attached to their pagan
ceremonies, placed the feast of All-Souls on the Ia
Samon, or the second of November. Even now the
peasants in Ireland assemble on the vigil of la Samon
with sticks and clubs, going from bou~ to bouse,
collecting money, bread-cake, butter, cheese, eggs,
etc., for the feast; repeating verses in honour of the
solemnity, and calling for the black sheep. Candles
are sent from house to house ahd lighted up on the
San1on. (The next day.) Every bouse abounds in the
best viands the master can afford ; apples and nuts are
eaten in great plenty ; the nutshells are burnt, and
from the ashes many things are foretold. Hempseed
is sown by the maidens, who believe that, if they look
back, they shall see the apparition of their intended
husbands. The girls make various efforts to read
their destiny ; they hang a smock before the fire at
the close of the feast, and sit up all night concealed in
one corner ofthe room, expecting the apparition of the
lover to come down the chimney and turn the shimee:
they throw \ball of yarn out of the window. and
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THE MARVBLLOUS, 83
wind it on the reel within, convinced that if they
repeat the Paternoster backwards, and look at the
ball of yam without, they shall then also see his ap-
parition. Those who celebrate this feast have numer-
011.8 other rites derived from the Pagans. They dip
for apples in a tub of water, and endeavour to bring
up one with their mouths ; they catch at an apple
when stuck on at one of the end of a kind of hanging
beam, at the other extremity of which is fixed a
lighted candle, and that with their mouths only,
whilst it is in a circular motion, having their hands
tied behind their backs.*
• There is no sort of doubt that Baal and Fi•·e were prin-
cipal objects of the ceremonies and adoration of the Druids.
The principal seaaon of these, and of their feasts in honour
of Baal, waa new year's day, when the sun began visibly to
return towards us ; the custom is not yet at an end, the coun-
try people still burning out the old year and welcoming in the
new byfires lighted on the top of hills, and other high places.
The next seaaon was the month of May, when the fruits of
the earth began, in the Eastern countries, to be gathered,
and the first fruits of them consecrated to Baal, or to the
s..,., whose benign influence had ripened them ; and one is
, almost persuaded that the dance round the !\lay pole, in that
month, is a faint image of the rites observed on such occa-
sions. The next great festival was on the 21st of June, when
the suo, being in Cancer, first appears to go backwards and
leave us. On this occasion the Baalim used to call the
people together, and to light fires on high places, and to
cause their sons, and their daughters, and their cattle to pass
through the fire, calling upon Baal to bless them, and not
fol'llake them.
G 2
Digi '"d by Google
81 TBAUJIIATUROJA, OR
TRB BRITISH MAGI,
The Druide, who were the magi of the Britons,
had an infinite number of rites in common with the
Persians. One of the chief function!! of the Eastern
magi, was divination ; and Pomponius Mela tells u.s,
that our Druide po88e88ed the eame art. There was
a solemn rite of divination among tht'! Druids from
the fall of the victim and convulsions of his limbs, or
the nature and position of his entrails. But the
British priests had various kinde of divination. By
the number ofcriminal causes, and by the increase
or diminution of their own order, they predicted ferti·
lity or scarcity. From the neighing or prancing of
white horses, harnessed to a consecrated chariot-
from the turnings and windings of a hare let looae
from the bosom of the diviner (with a variety of
other ominous appearances or exhibitions) they pre·
tended to determine the events of futurity.*
Of all creatures the serpent exercised, in the moat
curious manner, the invention of the Druids. To the
famous angui~Wm they attributed high virtues. The
anguinum or serpent's egg, was a congeries of small
snakes rolled together, and incrusted with a shell,
formed by the saliva or viscous gum, or froth of the
mother serpent. This egg, it seems was tossed into
the air, by the hissings of its dam, and before it feU
• In Devonshire and Cornwall it is still considered oai--
noua if a hare croases a person on the road.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP TRB MARVELLOUS, 85
again to the earth (where it would be defiled) it was
to be received in the sagus or sacred vestment. The
person who caught the egg was to make his escape on
horseback, eince the serpent pursues the ravisher of
its young, even to the brink of the next river. Pliny,
from whom this account is taken (lib. 29. C. 3.)
proceeds with an enumeration of other absurdities re-
lating to the anguinum. This angui,_,. is in British
called Glai~t-lteider, or the serpent of glass ; and the
same superstitious reverence which the Danmonii
universally paid to the angninum, is still discoverable
in some parte of Cornwall. Mr. Llhuyd informs us
that " the Cornish retain a variety of charms, and
have still towards the Land's-End, the amulets of
Maen-Maga.l and Glain-neider, which latter they call
Melprer, and have a charm for the enake to make it,
when they find one asleep, and stick a hazel wand
in the centre of her spine," or coils.
We are informed by Cambden that, " in most
parts of Wales, and throughout all Scotland and Com-
wall, it is an opinion of the vulgar, that about mid-
summer-eve (though in the time they do not all agree)
the snakes · meet in compAnies, and that by joining
heads together and hissing, a kind of bubble is formed,
which the rest, by continual hissing, blow on till it
passes quite through the body. when it immediately
hardens, and resembles a glass-ring, which whoever
finds shall prosper in all his undertakings. . The rings
thllll generated are called Gleiner-nadroeth, or snake-
stones. They are small glass amulets, commonly
abou' half as wide as our finger rings, but much
Digi '"d by Google
R6 TBAUMATURGU, OR
thicker, of a green colour usually, though sometimes
blue, and waved with red and white."
Carew says, that " the country p~ople, in Com-
wall, have a persuasion that the snake's breathing
upon a hazel wand produces a stone ring of blue
colour, in which there appears the yellow figure of a
snake, and that beasts bit and envenomed, being
given some water to drink wherein this stone has
been infuse9, will perfectly recover the poison.*
From the animal, the Druids passed to the vege·
table world ; and these also displayed their powers,
whilst by the charms of the misletoe, the selago, and
the samopis, they prevented or repelled diseases. From
the undulation or bubbling of water stirred by an oak
branch, or magic wand, they foretold events that were
to come. The superstition of the Druids is even now
retained in the western counties. To this day, the
Cornil!h have been accustomed to consult their famous
well at Madero, or rather the spirit of the well, res-
pecting their future destiny.
" Hither," says Borlase, " come the uneasy, im-
patient, and superstitious, and by dropping pinst Ol'
pebbles into the water, and by shaking the ground
round the spring, so as to raise bubbles from the
bottom, at a certain time of the year, moon and day,
• See Carew's Survey of Cornwall. p. 22. Mr.t Carew
had a stone-ring of this kind in his possession, and the per-
son who gave it to him avowed, that " he himself saw a part
of the stick sticking in it,"-but "P~s authorem sit.fides,''
says Mr. Carew. ·
t The same superstition still exists in Devonshire.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 87
endeavour to remove their uneasiness :· yet the
supposed responses serve equally to encrease the
gloom of the melancholy, the suspicions ofthe jealous,
and the passion of the enamoured. The Castalian
fountain, and many others among the Grecians were
supposed to be of a prophetic nature. By dipping a
fair mirror into a well, the Patrreans of Greece
received, as they supposed, some notice of ensuing
sitlness or health from the various figures pourtrayed
upon the surface. The people of Laconia cast into a
pool, sacred to Juno, cakes ofbread com : ifthe cakes
lllDk, good was portended ; if they swam, something
dreadful was to ensue. Sometimes the superstitious
threw three stones into the water, and formed their
conclusions from the several turns they made in sink-
ing." The Druids were likewise able to communicate,
by consecration, the most portentous virtues to rocks
and stones, which could determine the succession of
princes or the fate of empires. To the Rocking or
U>gan stone, several of which remain still in Devon-
!hire and Cornwall, in particular, they had recourse to
confirm their authority, either as prophets or judges,
pretending that ·its motion was miraculous. These
religious rites were celebrated in consecrated places
aod temples, in the midst of groves. The mysterious
t!ilence of an ancient wood diffuses even a shade of
horror. over minds that are yet superior to supersti-
tious credulity. Their temple was seldom any other
than a wide circle of rocks perpendicularly raised.
An artificial pile of large fiat stone usually composed
the altar ; and the whole religious mountain was
W!ually enclosed by a low mound, to prevent the in-
Digi '"d by Google
88 THAUMATURUIA, OR
trusion of the profane. " There was something io
the Druidical species of heathenism," exclaims
Mr. Whitaker, in a style truly oriental, " that was
well calculated to arrest the attention and impress
the mind. The rudely majestic circle of stones in
their temples, the enormous Cromlech, the massy
Logan, the huge Carnedde, and the magnificent am·
phidleatre of woods, wou1d all very strongly lay hold
upon that religious thoughtfulness ofsou1, which ha&
ever been so natural to man, amid all the wrecks of
humanity-the monument of his former perfection !"
That Druidism, as existing originally in Devonshire
and Cornwall, was immediately transported, in all its
purity and perfection, from the East, seems extremely
probable.
Among the sacred rites of the Druids there were
none more celebrated than that they used of the
misletoe of the oak. They believed this -tree W81l
chosen by God himself. The misletoe was what
they found but seldom : whenever, therefore, they
met with it, they fetched it with great ceremony,
and did it on the sixth day of the moon, with which
day they began both their months and their years.
They gave a name to this shrub, denoting that it had
the virtue of curing all diseases. They sacrificed
victims to it, believing that, by its virtue, the
barren were made fruitful. They looked upon it I
likewise as a preservative against all poisons. Thus
do several nations of the world place their religion
in the observation of trifles,
The Druids were also extremely superstitious in
Digi '"d by Google
u: .... :
liLUCIDATIONS OF THB MABVBLLOUS. 89
relation to the herb selago, which they reckoned a
preservative against sore eyes, and almost all mis-
fortunes. Another herb called samotis, which they
imagined had a virtue to prevent diseases among
cattle, they were very ceremonious about gathering.
The person was obliged to be clad in white, and was
not su1fered to handle it ; and the ceremony was pre-
ceded by a sacrifice of bread and wine.
The Druids had another superstition amongst them.
inregard to their serpents' eggs, which they supposed
were formed of the saliva of many of those crea-
tures, at a certain time of the moon : these they
looked upon as a sure prognostic of getting the
better of their enemies. These, with many other
ridiculous fooleries, were imposed upon the credulous
people, as they were very much attached to divina-
tion. The Druids regarded the misletoe as an an-
tidote against all poisons, and they preserved their
selago against all misfortunes. The Persians had
the same confidence in the efficacy of several herbs,
and used them in a similar manner. The Druids cut
their misletoe with a golden hook, and the Persians
cut the twigs of Ghez, or haulm, called lntrsam, with
apeculiar sort of concentrated knife. The candidates
for the British throne had recourse to the fatal stone
to determine their pretensions ; and on similar
occasions the Persians had recourse to the Ar-
tizoe.
From every view of the Druid religion, Mr. Pol-
whele concludes that it derived its origin from the
Persian magi. Dr. Borlasse has drawn a long and
90 THAU.MATUROIA, OR
elaborate parallel between the Druids and Persians,
where he has plainly proved that they resembled
each other, as strictly as possible, in every particular
of religion.*
• See IICCount of Druidism in Polewbelc's Historical View•
of Devonshire, vol. 1.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATI""'S OF THB .MAilVELLOGS. 91
CHAPTER VI.
..£SCULAI'IAN MYSTERIES, &c.
APOLLO is said to have been one of the most gen-
tle, and at the same time, as may be inferred from
his numerous issue, one of the most gallant of the
heathen deities. The first and most noted of his sons
was JEsculapius, whom he had by the nymph Cor-
onis. . Some say that Apollo, on account of her in-
fidelity, shot his mother when big with child with
him ; but repenting the fact, saved the inf~nt, and
gave him to Chiron to be instructed in physic.•
Others report, that as King Phlegyas, her father
was carrying her with · him into Peloponnesus, her
pains surprised her on the confines of Epidauria
where, to conceal her shame, she exposed the in.
{ant on a mountain. The truth, however is, that this
£sculapius was a poor infant cast away, a dropt
• Ovid, who relates the story of Coronia in his fanciful
wRy, tells us that Corvus, or the raven, who discovered her
armour, had. by Apollo, his feathers changed from blaclc to
w/Uie.
Digi '"d by Google
92 THAU!IIATURGIA, OB.
child, laid in a wood near Epidaurus, by his unnatu·
ral parents, who were afterwards ashamed to own
him ; he was shortly afterwards found by some
huntsmen, who, seeing a lighted flame or glory
surrounding his head, looked upon it as a prog·
noetic of the child's future glory. The infant was
delivered by them to a nurse named Trigo, but the
poets say he was suckled by a goat. He studied
physic under Chiron the centaur, by whose care he
made such progress in the medical art, as gained
him so high a reputation that he was even reported
to have raised the dead. His first cures were
wrought upon Ascles, King of Epidaurus, and
Aunes, King of Daunia, which last was troubled
with sore eyes. In short, his success was eo grea~
that Pluto, seeing the number of his ghosts daily
decrease, complained to iupiter, who killed him
with his thunderbolts. Such was his proficiency in
medical.skill, that he was generally esteemed the god
of physic. ~
In the city of Tetrapolis, which belonged to the
Ionians, ...Esculapius had a temple full of rare cures,
dedicated to him by those who ascribed their re-
covery to him ; and its walls were covered and hung
with memorials of the miracles he had performed.
Cicero reckons up three of the names of .<Escu-
lapius. The first the son of Apolio, worshipped in
Arcadia. who invented the probe and bandages for
wounds ; the second t4e brother of Mercury, killed
by lightning ; and the third the son Q[ Arsippus
Arsione, who firt~t taught the art of tooth-drawing
..
o'''ti"dbvGoogle
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 93
and purging. Others make JEsculapius an Egyp-
tian, King of Memphis, antecedent by a thousand
years to the .JEsculapius of the Greeks. The
Romans numbered him among the Dii Adcititii, of
such as were raised to heaven by their merit, as
Hercules, Castor and Pollux. The Greeks received
their knowledge of JEsculapius from the Phrenicians
and Egyptians. His chief temples were at Pergamus,
Smyrna, and Trica, a city of Ionia, and the isle of
Coos, or Cos ; in which all votive tablets were hung
up,* shewing the diseases cured by his assistance :
but his most famous shrine was at Epidaurus, where
every five years in the spring, solemn gnmes were
instituted to him nine days after the Isthmian games
at Corinth.
It was by accident that the Romans became ac-
quainted with JEsculapius. A plague happened in
Italy, the oracle was consulted, and the reply was
that they should fetch the god Esculapius from Epi-
daurus. An embassy was appointed of ten senators,
at the head of whom was Q. Ogulnius. These de-
puties, on their arrival, visiting the temple of the
god, a huge serpent came ft·om under the altar, and
crossing the city, went directly to their ship, and
lay down in the cabin of Ogulnius ;t upon which
• From these tablets, or votive inscriptions, Hippocrates is
aaid to have collected his aphorisms.
t The Romans who sent for lEsculapius from Epidaurus,
when their city was troubled with the t•lague, say, that the
eerpent that was worshipped there for him foJ..lowed the
ambassadors of its own accord til the ship that transported
94 TBAUMATURGIA, 0&
they set sail immediately, and arriving in the Tiber,
the serpent quitted the ship, and retired to a little
island opposite to the city, where a temple was
erected to the god, and the pestilence ceased.
The animals sacrificed to ...Esculapius were the
goat; some say on account of his having been
nursed by this animal ; others because this crea-
ture is unhealthy, as labouring under a perpetual
fever. The dog and the cock were. sacrificed to
him, on account of their fidelity and vigilance ; the
raven was also devoted to him for its forecast, and
being skilled in divination. Authors are not agreed
as to his being the inventor of physic, some affirm-
ing he perfected that part only which relates to the
regimen of the l!ick.
The origin of this fable is as follows :,-the public
sign or symbol exposed by the Egyptians in their
assemblies, to warn the people to mark the depth of
the inundation of the Nile, in order to regulate their
ploughing accordingly, was the figure of a man with
a dog's head, carrying a pole with serpents twisted
round it, to which they gave the name of Anubis,"'
Thaaut,t and 1Esculapius.t In process of time, they
it to Rome, where it was placed in a temple built in the
isle called Tiberina. In this temple the sick people were
wont to lie, and when they found themselves no better, they
reviled JEsculapius : so impatiently ungrateful and peeyish
were often the aftlicted, that they made no scruple to reproach
the very god who administered to their maladies.
• From Hannobeach, which, in the l'hrenician language,
signifies the barker, or warner, Anubis.
t This word signifies the dog.
: From .lEish, man, and caleph, dog, comes .lEtcalepk, the
man-dog, or JEaculapius.
Digi '"d by Google
f. ., :a :.as
I
f
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. !}5
made use of this representation for a real king, who
by the study of physic, sought the preservation of
his subjects. Thus the dog and the serpents became
the characteristics of JEsculapius amongst the Ro-
mans and Greeks, who were entirely strangers to the
original meaning of these hieroglyphics.
&ulapius was represented as an old man, with
along beard, crowned with a branch of bay tree ;
in his hands was a staff full of knots, about which
a serpent had twisted itself : at his feet stood an
owl or a dog-characteristics of the qualities of a
good physician, who must be as cunning as a ser-
pt"nt, as vigilant as a dog, as cunning and experi-
. enced as an old bashaw, to handle a thing so diffi-
cult as physic. At Epidaurus his statue was of gold
and ivory,* seated on a throne of the same materials,
with a long beard, having a knotty stick in one hand,
: the other entwined with a serpent, and a dog lying
at his feet. The Phliasians depicted him as beard-
Jess, and the Romans crowned him with a laurel,
, to denote his descent from Apollo. The knots in
~ his staff signify the difficulties that occur in the study
of medicine. He had by his wife Epione two sons,
?vfachaon and Podalirius, both skilled in surgery,
and who are mentioned by Homer as having been
present at the siege of Troy, and who were very
serviceable to the Greeks. He had also two daugh-
ters, called Hygirea and Jaso.
• This image was the work of Thrasymedes, the son of
Arignotu~, a native of Paros.
Digi '"d by Google
96 THAt!MATl'RGJA, OR
CHAPTER VII.
li"FERIOR DEITIES ATI'ENDINO MANKIND FROM
THEIR BIRTH TO THEIR DECEASE.
IT would be almost an endless task to enter into
a detail of all the inferior deities of the Greeks and
Romans; our object being to refer to such only as
preside over the health. of the human race, every
part and parcel of whom had their presiding genius.
-During pregnancy, the tutelar powers were the
god Pelumnus,• and the goddesses Intercedonia,t and
Deverra.! The import of these wor<\s seems to point
out the necessity of warmth and cleanliness to ladies
in this condition.
Besides the superior· goddesses Jemo-Lucien,.
Diana Hythia, and Latona, who all presided at the
• Either from pilttm, 11 pestle ; or from pello, to drive
away ; because be procured a safe delivery.
t She t11ugbt thl' art of cutting wood with a hatchet to
make fires.
! The inventress of brooms.
Digi '"d by Google
i
BLUCIDATIO~S OJP THE MARVELLOUS. 9i
birth, there were the goddesses Egeria.* Prosa,t
and Manageneta,t who with the Dii Nixii,§ had
all the cat:e of women in labour.
'fo children, Janus performed the office of
door-keeper or midwife ; and in this quality was
il.."Sisted by the goddess Opis or Ops ;II Cuma rocked
the cradle, while Carmenta sung their destiny ;
Levana lifted them up from the ground;~ and
Vegetanus took care of them when they cried ;
Rumina*"' watched them while they suckled ;
Polina furnished them with drink ; and Edura with
food or nourishment ; Osslago knit their bones ;
and Carnatt strengthened their constitutions. Nu-
riinatt was the goddess of children's purification;
Stilinus or Statanus instructed them to walk, and
• From casting out the birth.
t Aulus Gellius.
l ..£1ian.
§ From erritor, to struggle. See Ausonius, Idyll 12.
11 Some make her the same with Rhea or Vesta.
1f Among the Romans the midwife always laid the child
on the ground, and the father or somebody appointed,
lifted it up; hence the expression of tollere libero8, to educate
children.
•• This goddess had a temple at Rome, and her offerings
were milk.
tt On the Kalends of June, sacrifices were otfcred to
Carria, of bacon and bean flour cakes; whence they w"rc
called Fabarie.
:: Boys were named always on the ninth day after the
birth, aad girls on the eighth.
u
Digi '"d by Google
9d THAUMATUROIA, OJl
kept them from falling ; Fabulina learnt them to
prattle; the goddess Paventia preserved them from
frights;* and Camrena taught them to sing.
Nor was the infant, when grown to riper years,
left without his protectors; Juventas was the god
of youth ; Agenoria excited men to action ; and the
goddesses Stimula and Strenua inspired courage and
vivacity ; Hortat inspired the fame or love of glory;
anti Sentra gave them the !tlntiments of probity and
justice ; Quies was the goddesses of repose or ease.t
and lndolena, or laziness, was deified by the name of
Murcia;§ Vacua protected the idle; Adeona and
Abeona, secured people in going abroad and re-
turning ;II and Vibilia, if they wandered, was so
kind as to put them in the right way ; Fessonia
refreshed the weary and fatigued ; and Meditrina
healed the sickly ;~ Vitula was the goddess of mirth
and frolic;-* Volupia the goddess who bestowed
pleasure ;tt Orbona was addressed, that parents
might not love their offspring ; Pellonia averted
mischief and danger; and Numeria taught people to
• From Pavorema vertendo.
t She had a temple at Rome which always stood open.
: She had a temple without the walls.
§ Murcia had her temple on Mount Aventine.
II From abeo, to go awsy ; and adeo, to come.
'J The festival of this goddess was in September, when
the Romans drank new wine mixed with old, by way of
physic.
•• From tJitulo, to leap or.advance.
tt From wlwpttU, pleasure.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP TBB IIARVBLLOUS. 99
cast and keep accounts ; Angerona cured the anguish
or sorrow of the mind;* Haeres Martia secured
heirs the estates they expected ; and Stata or Statua
Mater, secured the forum or market place from fire ;
even the thieves had a protectress in Laverna ;t
Avemmcus prevented sudden misfortunes; and
Conius was always disposed to give good advice to
such as wanted it ; Volumnus inspired men with a
disposition to do well ; and Honorus raised them to
preferment and honours.
Nor wae the uW-riage state without its peculiar
defenders. Five deities were esteemed eo neceseary,
that no marriages were solemnized without asking
their favours; these were Jupiter-Perfectus, or the
Adult, Juno, Venus, Suadela,t and Diana. Juga-
tinus tied the nuptial knot ; Domiducus ushered the
bridehome ; Domitins took care to keep her there, and
prevent her gadding abroad; Maturna preserved the
conjugal union entire ; Virginensis§ loosed the bridle
zone or girdle ; Viriplaoa wae a propitious goddess,
ready to reconcile the married couple in case of any
accidental difference. Matuta was the patroness of
• In a great murrain which destroyed their cattle, the
Romans invoked this goddess, and she removed the plague.
t The image was a head without a body. Horace men-
tions her (Lib. 1. Epist. XVI. 60). She bad a temple
without the walls, which gave the name to the Porta Laver-
nalis.
: The goddess of eloquence, or persuasion, who had
always a great hand in the success of courtabip.
§ She waa also called Cinxia Juno.
H 2
Digi '"d by Google
r·· ..
]00 TR.A.VKATVBGIA, 08
matrons, no maid being suffered to enter her temple.
The married was always held to be the only honourable
state for woman, during the times of pagan antiquity.
The goddess Vacuna,* is mentioned by Horace
(Lib. 1. Epist. X. 49.) as having her temple at
Rome ; the rustics celebrated her festival in December,
after the harvest was got in (Ovid. Fast. Lib. XI).
The ancients 888igned the particular parts of the
body to particular deities ; the head was sacred to
Jupiter; the breast to Neptune ; the waist to Mars ;
the forehead to Genius ; the eye-brows to Juno, the
eyes to Cupid ; the ears to Memory ; the right hand
to Fides or Veritas ; the baek to Pluto ; the knees to
Misericordia or mercy ; the legs to Mercury ; the
feet to Thetis ; and the fingers to Minerva.t
The goddess who presided over funerals was
Libitina,! whose temple at Rome, the undertakers
• She was an old Sabine deity. Some make her the same
with Ceres; but Varro imagines her to be the goddes1 of
victory.
t From this distrillUtion arose, perhaps, the scheme of
our modern astrologers, \vho assign the different parta of
the body to the different constellations, or signs of Zodiac:
as the bead to Aries, the neck to Taurus, the shoulders to
Gemini, the heart to Cancer, the breast to Leo, and so on.
The pretended issues of astrology have been always insepa·
rable from stellar influence, and the zodiac bas ever been
the fruitful source of its solemn delusions.
: Some confound this goddess with Proserpine, others
with Venus.
Digi '"d by Google
- - - ~ --- -- - ~
BLUCID.\TIONS OP TBB Jl.\llVELLOUS, 101
furnished with all the necessaries for the interment
of the poor or rich ; all dead bodies were carried
through the Porto Libitina; and the Rationes Libitime
~entioned by Suetonius, very nearly answer to our
bills of mortality·
Digi '"d by Google
~I
102 TRAVIIATVROU., Oil
CHAPTER VIII.
JUDICIAL A8TROLOOY-1T8 CRBIIJCAL APPLJCATIOK
TO TRB PROLONGATION OF LIFB AND RBALTH-
ALCRYIIICAL DBLUSIONS,
THB study of astrology, so tlattering to human
curiosity got into favour with mankind at a very
early period,-especially with the weak and igno-
rant. The first account of it we meet with is in
Chaldea ; and at Rome it was known by the name
of the " Babylonish calculation," against which
Horace very wisely cautioned his readers.• It was
doubtless the first method of divination, and probably
prepared themind of man for all the various methods
since employed of searching into futurity ; a briefview
therefore of the rise of this pretended science cannot
be improper in this place, especially as the history of
these absurdities is the best method of confuting them.
• - - - nee Babylonios
Tentaris numeros.-Lib. 1. ad XI.
That is, consult not the tables of planetary calculations
used by astrologen of Babylonish origin.
Digi '"d by Google
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
:RLUCIDATIONS OF 'l"HM JUBVKLLOUS. 103
Others have ascribed the invention of this deception
to the Arabs ;-be this as it may, Judicial Astrology*
has been too much used by the priests and physicians
of all nations to encrease their own power and emo-
lument. They maintain that the heavens are one
great book, in which God has written the history of
the world ; and in which every man may read his
own fortune and the transactions of his time.
In this department of astrology (judicial) we meet
with all the idle conceits about the horary reign of
planets, the doctrine of lwroscopes, tl&e distributiOJ&
qf the houses, the calculatio11 of ativities, fortvt~es,
luclcy and unlvclcy hours, and other ominous fatalities.
They assert that it had its rise from the same banda
as astronomy itself;-that while the ancient Assyrians,
whose serene unclouded sky favoured their celestial ob-
• This conjectural science is divided into natural and
judicial. The first is confined to the study of exploring
natural effects, as change of weather, winds and storms-
hurricanes, thunder, ftoods, earthquakes, and the like. In
this sense it is admitted to be a part of natural philosophy.
It wu under this view that Mr. Good, Mr. Boyle, and Dr.
Mead pleaded for its use. The first endeavours to accourit
for the diversity of seasons from the situations, habitudes,
and motions of the planets ; and to explain an infinity of
phenomena by the contemplation of the stsrs. The
honourable Mr. Boyle admitted, that all physical bodies
are influenced by the heavenly bodies ; and the doctor's
opinion, in his treatise concerning the power of the sun and
moon, etc. is in favour of the doctrine. But these predic-
tions and influence are ridiculed, and entirely exploded by
the most esteemed modern philosophers, of which the
reader may have a learned specimen in Rohault'11 Tract.
Physic. pt. 11. c 27.
104 THAt:KATURGIA, OR
servations, were intent on tracing the paths and
periods of the heavenly bodies, they discovered
a constant settled relation or analogy between them
and things below ; hence they were led to conclude
these to be the fates or destinies (Parcre) so much
talked of, which preside at our birth, and dispose
of our future state.
The Egyptians, who derived their astrological su-
perstitions from the Chaldeans, becoming ignorant of
the astronomical hieroglyphic~, by degrees looked
upon the names of the signs as expressing certain
powers with which they were invested, and as indi-
cations of their several offices. The sun, on account
of its splendour and enlivening influence, was ima-
gined to be the great mover of nature ; the moon
held the second rank of powers, and each sign and
constellation a certain share in the government of'
the world. The ram, (Aries C"(l) had a strong in-
fluence over the young of the flocks and herds ; the
balance, (Libra :!k) could inspire nothing but inclina-
tions to good order and justice; and the scorpion,
(Scorpio ttt) to excite only evil dispositions. In short,
each sign produced the good or evil intimated by its
name.
Thus, if a child happened to be born at the in-
stant when the first star of the ram ro~e above the
horizon, (when, in order to give this nonsense th~
air of a science, the star was supposed to have its
greatest influence,) he would be rich in cattle ; and
he who should enter the world under the crab,
would meet with nothing but disappointments,
and all his affairs go backwards and downwards.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 105
The people were to be happy whose king entered
the world under the sign Libra : but completely
wretched if he should light under the horrid sign
scorpion. Persons hom under capricorn (~) es-
pecially if the sun at the same time ascended the
horizon, were sure to meet with success, and rise
upwards like the wild goat and the sun which then
ascends for six months together. The lion, (Leo elL)
was to produce heroes ; and the virgin (Virgo ~)
with her ear of com to inspire chastity, and to unite
virtue with abundance. Could anything be more ex-
travagant and ridiculous !
The case was exactly the same with respect to the
planets, whose influence is only founded on the wild
supposition of their being the habitations of the pre-
tended deities, whose names they bear, and the fabu-
lous characters the poets have given them. Thus,
to Saturn, lc they gave languid and even destructive
influences, for no other reason but because they had
been pleased to make this planet the residence of
Saturn, who was painted with grey hairs and a
scythe. To Jupiter 2+ they gave the power of be-
stowing crowns and distributing long life, wealth,
and grandeur, merely because it bears the name of
the father of life. Mars ~ was supposed to in-
spire a strong inclination for war, because it was be-
lievedto be the residence of the god ofwar. Venus 9
had the power ofrendering men voluptuous and fond of
pleasure, because they had been pleased to give it the
name of one ·who by some was thought to he the
mother of pleasure. · Mercury ~ , though almost
always invisible, would never have been thought to
superintendthe property of states, and the affairs of
Digi '"d by Google
106 THAUMATURGIA, OR
wit and commerce, had not men, without the least
reason, given it the name of one who was supposed
to be the inventor of civil polity.
According to Astrologers, the power of the ascend-
ing planet is greatly increased by that of an ascending
sign ; then the benign influences are all united, and
fall together on the head of all the happy infants
who at that moment enter the world ; yet can any-
thing be more contrary to experience, which shews
us, that the characters and events produced by per·
eons born under the same aspect of the stars, are so
far from being alike, that they are directly oppo-
site.
" What completes the ridicule," says the Abbe La
Pluche, to whom we are obliged for these judicious
observations, " is, that what astronomers call the
first degree of the ram, the balance, or of sagita-
rius, is no longer the first sign, which gives fruit-
fulness to the flocks, inspires men with a love of
justice, or forms the hero. It has been found that
all the celestial signs have, by degrees, receded from
the vernal equinox, and drawn back to the East :
notwithstanding this, the point of the zodiac that
cuts the equator is still called the first degree of the
ram, though the first star of the ram be thirty de-
grees beyond it, and all the other signs in the same
proportion. When, therefore, any one is said to be
born under the first degree of the ram, it was in
reality one of the degrees of pisces that then came
above the horizon : and when another is said to be
born with a royal eoul and heroic disposition, be-
cause at his birth the planet Jupiter ascended the
horizon, in conjunction with the first star'of sagitary,
Digi '"d by Google
BLUC1DAT10!1!8 OJ' TBB MARVBLLOUI. 107
Jupiter was indeed at that time in conjunction with
a star thirty degrees eastward of sagitary, and in
good truth it was the pernicious scorpion that presided
at the birth of this happy, this incomparable child.''
And so it would, as Shakspeare says, " if my mo-
ther's cat had kittened. This,'' Ays our aaga-
ci0118 bard, '' is the excellent foppery of the world,
that when we are sick in fortune, (after the surfeit of
our own behaviour) we make guilt of our disasters,
the sun, the moon, and the stars ; as if we were
'riDains by necessity ; fools, by heavenly compulsion ;
knaves, thieves, and treachers, (traitors) by spherical
predominance ; drunkards, liars, and adulterers, by
1 an enforced of:>edM!nce of planetary influence ; and
all that we are ev'Tt in by a divine th1111!ting on ; an
admirable evasion of a whoremaster to lay his goatish
tricks to the charge of a star! My father com-
pounded with my mother under the dragon's tail;
and my nativity was under Ursa major ; so that it
follows I am rough and treacherous.-Tut! I should
.have been that I am, had the maidenliest star in the
firmament twinkled at my bastardizing." Thus it is
evident, that astrology is built upon no principles,
that it is founded on fables, and on influences void
of reality. Yet absurd as it is, and even was, it
obtained credit ; and the more it spread, the greater
injury was done to the cause of virtue. Instead of
the exercise of prudence and wise precautions, it
substituted superstitious forms and childish practices ;
it enervated the courage of the brave by apprehen-
sions grounded on puns, and encouraged the wicked,
by makiug them lay to the charge of a planet
Digi '"d by Google
e
lOS 'PRAUMATCRGIA, OR .
those evils which only proceeded from their own
depravity.
But not content with such absurdities, which
destroyed the very idea of liberty, they asserted that
these stars, which had not the least connection with
mankind, governed all the parts of the human body,
and ridiculously affirmed that the ram presided over
the head, the bull over the gullet, the twins over
the breast, the scorpion over the entrails, the fishes
over the feet, etc. The juggles of astrology have
been admirably ridiculed by Butler in the following
lines :
Some hy the nose with fumes trepan 'em,
As Dunstan did the de·dl's gral!am;
Others, with characters and words,
Catch 'em, as men in nets do birds ;
And some with symbols, signs, and tricks,
Engrav'd in planetary nicks,
With their owD. in.fluence will fetch 'em
Down from their orbs, arrest and catch 'em i
Make 'em depose and answer to
All qut>stions, ere they let them go.
Bombastus kept a dt'vil's bird
Shut in the pummel of his sword,
And taught him all the cunning pranks
Of past •nd future mountebanks.
Hudilmu, part ii. canto 3.
By means of the zodiac, astrologers pretended to
account for the various disorders of the body, which
were supposed to be in a good or bad disposition,
according to the different aspects* of these signs.
• By a11pect ia to be underatood an angle formed by the
/
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP TUB JURVBLLOUS, 109
To mention only one instance, they pretended that
. great caution ought to be used in taking medicine
under Taurus, or the bull ; because, as this animal
chews his cud, the person would not be able to keep it
in his stomach.
Each hour of the day had also its presiding star.
The number seven, as being that of the planets,
became of mighty consequence. The seven days in
the week,~a period of time handed down by tradi-
tion, happened to correspond with the number of
the planets : and therefore they gave the name of
a planet to each day ; and from thence some days
in the week were considered more fortunate or un-
lncky than the rest ; and hence seven times seven,
~ called the climacterical period of hours, days, or
years, were thought extremely dangerous, and to
have a surprising effect on private persons, the for-
tones of princes, and the government of states.
Thus the mind of man became distressed by imagi-
nary evils, and the approach of these moments, in
themselves as harmless as the rest of their lives,
has by the strength of the imagination, brought on the
most fatal effects.
~ Nay, the influence of the planets were extended
to the bowels of the earth, where they were sup-
po!!ed to produce metals. From hence it appears
that when superstition and folly are once on foot,
there is no setting bounds to their progress. Gold,
a.e a matter of course, must be the production of the
rays of two planets meeting on the earth, able to execute
aome natural power or inRuence.
Digi '"d by Google
== -2&!!
110 THAOKATtJRGIA, OR
sun, and the conformity in point of colour, bright·
ness, and value, was a sensible proof of it. By the
same mode of reasoning, the moon produced all the
silver, to which it was related by colour ; Mars, all
the iron, which ought to be the favourite metal of
the god of war. Venus presided over copper, which
she might be well supposed to produce, since it was
found in abundance in the isle of Cyprus, the sup:
posed favourite residence of this goddess. In the
same strain, the other planets presided over the
other metals. The languid Saturn domineered over
the lead mines, and Mercury, on account of his
activity, had the superintendency of quicksilver;
while it was the province of Jupiter to preside over
tin, as this was the only metal left him, it would
appear, a kind of " Hobt!on's choice."
This will explain the manner in which the metals
obtained the names of the planets ; and from this
opinion, that each planet engendered its own peculiar
metal, they at length formed an idea that, as one
planet was more powerful than another, the metal
produced by the weakest was converted into an·
other by the predominating influence of a stronger
orb.
Lead, though really a metal, and as perfect in its
kind as any of the rest, was considered only half
a metal, which, in consequence of the languid in·
fiuences of old Saturn, was left imperfect ; and,
therefore, under the auspices of Jupiter, it was con-
verted into tin ; under that of Venus, into copper :
and at. last into gold, under some particular aspects
of the sun. From hence, at length, arose the
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF TRR MARVELLOUS. II I
extravagant opinion of the alchymists, who, with
amazing sagacity, endeavoured to find out means for
hastening these changes or transmutations, which, as
they conceived, the planets performed too slowly.
The world, however, became at length convinced that
the art of the alchymist was as ineffectual as the
in1luences of the planets, which, in a long succession
ci ages, had never been known to change a mine
of lead to that of tin or any other metal.*
The first author we are acquainted with who talks
ci making gold by the transmutation of one metal,
hy means of an alcahestt into another, is Zozimus
the Pomopolite, who lived about the commencement
ci the fifth century, and who has a treatise express
upon it, called, " The divine art of making gold
and silver," in manuscript, and is, as formerly, in the
h"brary of the King of France.
As regards the universal medicine, said to depend
on alchemical research, we discover · no ~arlier or
• Those who wish to read a curious monument of the
lolliea of the alehymists, may consult the diary of Elias
Aahmole, who is rather the historian of this vain science,
than an adept. It may amuse literary leisure to turn over
his quarto volume, in which he has collected the works of
leYeral English alchymists, to which he has subjoined his
Commentary. It affords curious specimens of Rosicrucian
myateriea ; and he relates stories, which vie for the mira-
allons, with the wildest fancies of Arabian invention.
t Alcahest, in chemistry, (an obsolete term,) means a
most pure and universal menstruum or dissolvent, with
•bich some chemists have pretended to resolve all bodit>s
into their first elements, and perform other extraordinary
Mid unaccountable operation~.
Digi '"d by Google
112 TBAUXATURGIA. OR
plainer traces than in this author, and in .lEnea.s
Gazeus, another Greek writer, towards the close of
the same century ;* nor among the physicians and
materialists, from Moses to Geber the Arab,t who is
supposed to have lived in the seventh century. In
that author's work, entitled the " Philosopher's
stone," mention is made of medicine that cures all
leprous diseases. This passage, some authors sup-
pose, to have given the first hint of the matter,
though Geber himself, perhaps, meant no such thing;
for, by attending to the Arabic style and diction of
this author, which abound& in allegory, it' is highly
probable that by man he means gold, and by leprous,
or other diseases, the other metals, which, with re-
lation to gold, are all impure.
The origin and antiquity of alchymy have been
much controverted. If any credit may be placed on
legend and tradition, it must be as old as the flood-
nay, Adam himself is represented to have been an
alchymist. A great part, not only of the heathen
mythology, but of the Jewish Scriptures, are
supposed to refer to it. Thus, Suidast will .have the
• In this writer .ve find the following passage: " Such
as are skilled in the ways of nature, can take silver and tin,
and changing their nature, can turn them into gold." He
also tells us that be was " wont to call himaelf a gold-melter
and a chemid.
t The principal authors on Rlchymy are Geber, the Arab,
Friar Bacon, Sully, John and Isaa:: Hallendus, Basil Vr.len-
tine, Paracelsus, Van Zuchter, and Sendirogius.
: Corringius calls this statement in question, and asks how
Suidas, .vho lh·ed but five hundred yei•rs between them,
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS 011' TBB MARVELLOUS. 113
fable of the philosopher's stone to be alluded to in
the fable of the Argonauts ; and others find it in the
book of Moses, as well as in other remote places.
But, if the era of the art be examined by the test of
history, it will lose much of its fancied antiquity.
Tht> manner in which Suidas accounts for the total
silence of alchymy among the old writers is, that
Dioclesian procured all the books of the ancient
Egyptians to be burnt ; and that it was in these
the great mysteries of chemistry were contained.*
Kercher asserts, that the theory of the philosopher's
stone is delivered at large in the table of Hennes,
and the ancient Egyptians were not ignorant of the
art, but declined to prosecute it.
~bould know what happenedeight hundred years before him?
To wbich Borricbius the Dane, answers, that he had learnt
it of Eudemus, Helladius, Zozimus, Pamphilius, and others,
u Soidas himself relates.
• Itdoes not appear that the Egyptians transmuted gold;
they had ways of separating it from ell kinds of bodies,
from the very mud of the Nile, and stones of all kinds : bot,
adds Kercher, these secrets were never written down, or
made public, but confined to the royal family, and banded
down traditionally from father to son.
Digi '"d by Google
. ..... :gs -
114 TIIAUMAH1RGJA, OR
CHAPTER IX.
ALCHYMICAL AND ASTROLOGICAL CHIMERA.
HAVING so far explained the fragile basis on which
human knowledge may be said to have depended,
during the obscurity and barbarity of the middle
ages, when the progress of true knowledge was ob-
structed by the most absurd fancies, and puerile
conceits : when conjectures, caprices, and dreams
supplied the place of the most useful sciences. and
of the most important truths, the subsequent illu-
strative rt-flections may serve as a guide to direct the
attention of the reader to other delusions, which arose
out of the general chaos.
Chemistry, a science so essentially requisite to
explain the phenomena of known and unknown
substances, was studied chiefly by jugglers and fana- 1
tics ;-their systems, replete with metaphysical non-
sense, and composed of the most crude and hetero-
geneous materials, served rather to nourish super-
stition than to establish facts, and illustrate useful
truths. Universal remedies, in various forms, met
with etrenuous advocates and deluded consumers.
Digi '"d by Google
', ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 115
The path of accurate observation and experiment
was forsaken : instead of penetrating into the myste-
rious recesses of nature, they bewildered themselves
in the labyrinth of fanciful speculation ; they over-
stepped the bounds of good sense, modesty, and
truth ; and the blind led the blind. The prolonga·
tion of life too was no longer sought for in a manner
agreeable to the dictates of nature ; even this inter-
esting branch of human pursuits was rendered sub-
servient to chemistry, or rather to the confused
system of alchymy. Original matter was considered
as the elementary cause of all beings, by which they
expected literally to work miracles, to transmute the
base into noble metals, to metamorphose man in his
animal state by chemical processes, to render him
more durable, and to secure him against early de-
cline and dissolution. Millions of vessels, retorts,
and phials, were either exposed to the action of the
most violent artificial heat, or to the natural warmth
of the sun ; or else they were buried in some dung-
hill or other fetid mass, for the purpose of attracting
this original matter, or obtaining it from putrescible
substances.
AB the meta called gold always bore the highest
value, these crude philosophers concluded, from a
ridicnlous analogy, that its value with respect to
the preservation of health and the cure of diseases,
must likewise surpass that of all other remedies.
The nugatory art of dissolving it, so as to render it
potable, and to prevent it from again being converted
into metal, employed a multitude of busy idiots, not
only in concealed comers, but in the splendid labo-
I 2
Digi '"d by Google
116 THAUMATURGIA, OR
raties of the great. Sovereigns, magistrates, coun·
sellors, and impostors, struck with the common
frenzy, entered into friendship and alliance, formed
private fraternities, and sometimes proceeded to such
a pitch of extravagance, as to involve them!!elves
and their posterity in ruinous debt!!. The real
object of many was, doubtless, to gratify their ava-
rice and desire of aggrandisement : although this
sinister motive was concealed under the specious
pretext of searching for a remedy that should sen·e
as a tincture of life, both .Cor the healthy and dis-
eased, yet some among these whimsical mortals
were actuated by more honourable motives, zealous
only for the interest of truth, and the well-being of
their feHow creatures.
The common people, in some countries, particu-
larly Italy, Germany, and France often denied them-
selves the common necessaries of life, to save as
much as would purchase a few drops of the tincture
of gold, which was offered for sale by some su·
perstitious or fraudulent chemist : and so tho-
roughly persuaded were they of the efficacy of this
remedy, that it afforded them in every instance the
most confident and only hope of recovery. These
beneficial effects were positively promised, but were
looked for in vain. All subduing death would not
submit to be bribed with gold, and disease refused
to hold any intercourse with that powerful deity, who
presides over the industry and commerce of all na-
tions.
AI.', however, these diversified and almost number-
less experiments were freqQ.ently productive of
Digi '"d by Google
_--:- · .
ELJ;CIDATIONS OJI' THB MARVELLOUS. 117
useful inventions in arts and manufactures ; and, as
many chemical remedies of real \'alue were thereby
accidentally discovered, great and almost general
attention to those bold projectors was constantly
kept alive and excited. Indeed, we are indebted to
their curious observations, or rather perhaps to
chance, for several valuable medicines, the excellence
[ of which cannot be disputed, but which, neverthele•s,
, require more precaution in their use and applica-
1.
. tion, and more perspicuity and diligence in investi-
gating their nature ana properties than the original
preparers of such articles were able or willing to
afford. All their endeavours to prolong life, by
artificial means, could not be attended with bene-
1
1
ficial effects ; and the application of the remedies
thus contrived, must nece~sarily, in many cases,
have proved detrimental to the health of the
1 patient.
I In proof of this assertion, it will be sufficient to
tJ
' give a slight sketch of the different views arid
opinions of the gold-makers, Ro~icrucians, manu-
facturers of astralian salts, drops of life, and tinc-
tures of gold, hunters after the philosopher's stone,
and other equally absurd chimera.
Some of these extravagant enthusiasts fancied
that life resembled a flame, from which the body
derived warmth, spirit, and animation.· They endea-
voured to cherish and increase the flame, and sup-
plied the body with materials to feed it, as we pour
oil into a burning lamp. Others imagined they had
discovered something invisible and incorporeal in the
air, t~at important medium which supports the life
Digi '"d by Google
118 THAUMATURGIA, OR
of man. They pretended to catch, refine, reduce,
and materialize this indefinable something, ~o that
it might be swallowed in the form of powders,
and drops ; that, by its penetrating powers, it might
insinuate itself into the whole animal frame, invi-
gorate, and consequently qualify it for a longer
duration.
Others again were foolish enough to indulge a no-
tion that they could divest themselves of the proper-
ties of matter during this life ; that in this manner
they might be defended against the gradual ap-
proaches of dissolution, to which every animal body
is subject : and that thus fortified, w=thout quitting
their terrestrial tabernacle, they · could associate at
pleasure with the inhabitants of the spiritual world.
The sacred volume itself was interpreted and com-
mented upon by alchymists, with a view to render
it subservient to their intended designs. Indisput-
able historical facts, recorded in this invaluable book,
were treated by them as hieroglyphical symbols of
chemical processes : and the fundamental truths of
the christian religion were applied, in a wanton and
blasphemous manner, to the purposes of making gold,
and distilling the elixir of life.
The world of spirits was also invaded, and sum-
moned, as it were, to contribute to the prolongation
of human life. Spirits were supposed to have the
dominion of air, fire, earth, and water; they were
divided into distinct classes, and particular services
ascribed to each. The malevolent spirits were
opposed and counteracted by various means of pre-
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE HARVE'LLOUB. I 19
vention : the good and tutelary were obliged to
submit to a sort of gentle, involuntary servitude.
From invisible beings were expected and demanded
visible means of assistance-riches, health, friends,
and long life. Thus the poor spirits were profanely
maltreated, nay, sometimes severely punished, and
even miserably flogged in effigy, when they betrayed
symptoms of disaffection, or want of implicit fealty.
As men had thus, in their weakness and folly, for.
saken·the bdunds of this terrestrial sphere, it will
1!8$ily he believed, that, with the help uf an exube-
rant imagination, they would make a transition to the
higher regions-to the celestial bodies and the stars
to which, indeed, they ascribed no less a power than
that of deciding the destinies of men, and which,
consequently, must have had a considerable share in
shortening or prolonging the duration of human life-
every nation or kingdom was subjected to the domi-
nion of its particular planet the time of whose
government was determined; and a number of ascen-
dapt powers were fictitiously contrived, with a view
to reduce, under its influence, every thing which was
produced and born under its administration. The
professors of astrology appeared as the confidents of
these invisible rulers, and the interpreters of their
will; they were well versed in the art of giving a
respectable appearance to this usurped dignity. Pro-
vided they could but ascertain the hour and minute of
a person's birth, they confidently took upon them-
selves to predict his mental capacities, future vicisl'li-
tudes oflife, and the diseases he would be visited with.
120 TBAUMATUBGIA, OR
together with the circumstances, the day and hour
of his death.•
• The following prediction, and the verification of it are
of so recent a date, that we cannot resist giving it a place in
our pages. In the account of the late Captain Flinder's
voyage of discovery, ia the melancholy rel11tion of the loss·
of the master, Mr. Thistle, with seven others, in a boat, on
the inhospitable shores of Terra Australis. To this narrative,
the following note is subjoined, which we shall here quo~ in
C11ptain Flinder's own words: "This e\·ening, Mr. Fowler,
the lieutenant, told me 11 circumstance which I thought very
e:~traordinary, and it 11fterw"rds proved to be more so.
While we were lying at Spithead, Mr. Thistle was one day
waiting on shore, and having nothing else to do, went to a
certain old man, named Pive, to have his fortune told. The
cunning man informed him that he was going on a long
voyage, and that the ship, on arriving at her destination,
would be joined by another vessel. That such was intended, he
might have learnt privately; but he added th11t Mr. Thistle
would be lost before the other vessel joined. As to the man-
ner of his loss the magician refused to give any information.
My boat's crew, hearing what Mr. Thistle said, went to con-
sult the wise man, and after the prefatory information of a
long voyage, they were told that they would be shipwreckecJ,
but not in the ship they were goin!!" out in; whether they
would escape and return to England, he was not permitted to
reveal. This tale Mr. Thistle often told at the mess-table;
and l remarked, with some pain, in a future part of the
voyage, th11t every time my boat's crew went to embark in
the Lady Nelson, there was some degree of apprehension
amonllst them, that the time of the predicted shipwreck was
arrived. I make no comment, (says CapL. Flinders,) upon
this story, but to recommend a commander, if possible, to
prevent any of his crew from consulting fortune-tellers.-
lt should be observed that, str11nge as it may nppear, every
particular of these predictions came exactly to pass, for the
master and his boat's crew were lost before the Investigator
;,;,;,dbyGoogle
................4 :"
..:1..0'
_
......_
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE: MARVELLOUS. 121
Not only the common people, but persons of
the highest rank and stations, nay, even men the
most distinguished for their rank and abilities, did
homage to those " gods of their idolatry," and lived
in continual dread of their occult powers. With
anxious countenance and attentive ears, they listened
to the cantrip effusions of these pretended oracles,
which prognosticated the bright or gloomy days of
futurity. Even physicians were solicitous to qualify
them8e]ves for appointments no less lucrative than
respectable ;-they forgot, over the dazzling hoards of
Mammon, that they are peculiarly and professedly the
pupils of nature.-The curious student in the univer-
sities found everywhere public lecturers, who under-
took to instruct him in the profound arts of divination,
chiromancy, and the cabala.
Among other instances, the following anecdote is
related of the noted Thurneisen, who, in the se-
venteenth century, was invested, at Berlin, with the
respectable offices of printer to the court, booksell~r.
almanack-maker, astrologer, chemist, and first phy~i­
cian. Messengers daily arrived from the most res-
pectable houses in Germany, Poland, Hungary,
Denmark, and even from England, for the purpose
of consulting him respecting the future fortunes*
of their new-born infants, acquainting him with the
wu joined by the Lady Nelson, from Port-Jackson; and
when the former ship was condemned, the people embarked
with their commander on board the Porpoise, which was
wrt'cked on a coral reef, and nine of the crew were lost.
• In 1670, the passion for horoscopes and expounding the
stan, prevailed in France among the first rank. The new-
born child was usually presented naked to the astrologer.
9, '"d by Coogle
122 THAUMATUROIA, OR
hour of the nativity, and soliciting his ad\'ice and
directions as to their management. Many volumes of
this singular correspondence are still preserved in the
royal library at Berlin. 'fhe business of this fortunate
adept increased so rapidly, that he found it necessary
to employ a number of subaltern assistants, who,
together with their master, realized considerable for·
tunes. He died in high reputation and favour with
his superstitious contemporaries.
The famous Melancthon was a believer in judicial
astrology, and an interpreter of dreams. Richelieu
and Mazarin were so superstitious as to employ and
pension Morin, another pretender to astrology, who
cast the nativities of these two able politicians. Nor
was Tacitus himself, who generally appears superior
to superstition, untainted with this folly, as may be
eeen from his twenty-second chapter of the sixth book
of his Annals.
In the time of the civil ware, astrology was in
high repute. The royalists and the rebel!! had their
astrologers as well as their soldiers ; and the predic-
tions of the former had a great influence over the
hitter. When Charles the first was imprisoned,
Lilly, the famoug astrologer, was consulted for the
who read the first lineaments in its forehead, and the trans-
verse line~ in its bands, and thence wrote down its future
destiny. Catherine de Medicis carried Henry IV, when a
child, to old Nostradamus, who antiquaritls esteem more for hia
Chronicle of Pro•·ence than for his vaticinating powers. The
sight of the revertld seer, with a beard which " streamed like
" meteor in the air," terrified the future hero, who dreaded
a whipping from so grave a personage.
_ .... L .~ :.--- b-
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE 11.\RVKLLOUS. 123
hour that should favour his escape; and in Burnet's
History of his own Times, there is a story which
mongly proves how much Charles II was bigotted
to judicial astrology, a man, though a king, whose
miud waa by no means unenlightened. The most
respectable characters of the age, Sir William Dugdale,
Elias Ashmole,* Dr. Grew, and others, were mem-
bers of the astrological club. Congreve's character
of Foresight, in Love for Love, was then no uncom-
mon person, though the humour, now, is scarcely
intelligible. Dryden Cft.llt the nativities of his sons;
and what is remarkable, his prediction relating to his
son Charles, was accomplished. The incident being
of so late a date, one might hope that it would have
been cleared up; but, if it be a fact, it must be allow-
ed that it forms a rational exultation for its irrational
adepts. Astrologers were frequently, as may easily
be understood, put to their wit's end when their
predictions did not come to pass. Great winds were
foretold, by one of the craft, about the year 1586.
No unusual.storms, however, happened. Bodin, to
save the reputation of the art, applied it as a figure to
• The Chaldean Sages were nearly put to the route by a
quarto pack of artillery, fired on them by 1\lr. John Chamber,
io 1691. Apollo did not usc Marsyns more inhumanly than
his scourging pen this mystical race; and his personalities
made them sorely feel it. However, a Norwich knight, the
Yery Quixote of Astrology, arrayed in the enchanted armour
of his occult authors, encountered this pagan in a most
atately carousal. He came forth with " A Defence of Judi·
cia! Astrologye, in answer to a treatise lately published by
Mr. John Chamber. By Christopher Knight. Printed at
Cambridge, 1693."
Digi '"d by Google
124 TBAUiliATUaGIA, Oa
some revolutions in the state, of which there were
instances enough at that time.
At the commencement of the 18th centurv, the Jl.
lt~mizuui, a sect of astrologers, had excited.consider-
able sensation on the continent. Blending philoso-
phy with euthu~m. and uniting to a knowledge of
every chemical process a profound acquaintance with
astronomy, their influence over the superstitious feel· •
ings of the people was prodigious; and in many in- ·
stances the infatuation was attended with fatal conse-
quences. We shall relate the following, as nearer
home than many now before us.
THK HOROSCOPE, A TALR OJ' TBE STARS.
On the summit of St. Vincent's rocks, in the
neighbourhood of Clifton, looking on the Avon, liS
it rolls its lazy courses towards the Bristol Channel,
stands an edifice, known by the name of " Cooke's
.Folly." It consists of a single round tower, and
appears at a di;;tance rather as the remnant of some
extensive building, than a complete and perfect edi-
fice, as it now exists. It was built more than two
centuries ago, by a man named Maurice Cooke ;
not, indeed, as a strong hold from the arms of a
mortal enemy, but as a refuge from the evils of
destiny. He was the proprietor of extensive estates
in the neighbourhood ; and while his lady was
pregnant with her first child, as she was one evening.
walking in their domains, she encountered a strange
looking gipsey, who, pestering her for alms, re-
ceived but a small sum. The man turned over the
coin in his hand, and implored a larger gift. '
...
.:..u
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 1~5
"That," said the lady, " will buy you food for the
~nt." .
"Lady," said the gipsey, " it is not food for the
wretched body that I require ; the herbs of the field,
and the waters of the ditch, are good enough for
that. I asked your alms for higher purposes. Do
not distrust me, if my bearing be prouder than my
:tPrments ; do not doubt the strength of my sunken
··eye, when I tell you that I can read the skies as they
relate to the fate of men. Not more familiar is his
hornbook to the scholar, than are the heavens to my
knowledge."
"What, thou art an astrologer?"-" Aye, lady!
my fathers were so before me, even in the times
when our people had a home amidst the pyramids of
the mighty-in the times when you are told the
mightier prophets of the Israelites put the soothsayers
of Egypt to confusion ; idle tales ! but if true, all
reckless now. Judah's scattered sons are now deso-
late as ourselves; but they bend and bow to the
laws and ways of other land-we remain in the stern
atedfastness of our own."
" If then," returned the lady, " I give thee more
money, how will it be applied ?"
" That is not a courteous question, hut I will
answer it. The roost cunning craftsman cannot
work without his tools, and some of mine are broken,
which I seek to repair : another crown will he
enongh."
The lady put the required sum into his hand, and
at the same time intimated a desire to have a speci-
men of his art.
Digi '"d by Google
THAUMATURGIA, OR
" Oh! to what purpose should that be? why,
why seek to know the course of futurity? destiny
runs on in a sweeping and resistless tide. Enquire
not what rocks await your bark : the knowledge
cannot avail you, for caution is useless against stern
necessity."-" Truly, you are not likely to get rich
by your trade, if you thus deter customers."-" It
is not for wealth I labour : I am alone on the earth,
and have none to love. I will not mix with the
world lest 1 shoufd learn to hate. This present is
nothing to me. It is in communion with the spirits
who have lived in the times that are past, and with
the stars-those historians of the times to come-that
I feel aught of joy. Fool.f! sometimes demand the
exertions of my powera, and sometimes I gratify
their childish curiosity."-" Notwithstanding I lie
under the imputation of folly, I will beg that you
predict unto me the fate of the child which I shall
bear."-" Well, you have obliged me, and I will
comply. Note the precious moment at which it
enters the world, and soon after you shall see me
again."
Within a week the birth of an heir awoke the
clamorous joy of the vassals, and summoned the
strange gipsey to ascertain the necessary points.
'fhese learned, he returned home ; and the next day
presented Sir Maurice with a scroll, containing the
following lines :
" Twenty times shall Avon's tide
In chains of glistening ice be tied-
Twenty times the woods of Leigh
Shall wave their branches merril
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 127
In spring burst forth in mantle gay,
And dance in summer's scorching ray :
1'wentv times shall autumn's frown,
Withe; all their green to brown-
And still the child of yesterday
Shalllaugla the happy hour away.
Th1tt period past, another sun
Shall not his annual journey run.
Before a secret silent foe,
Shall strike that boy a deadly blow.
Such, and sure his fate shall bl' :
Seek not to change his destiny.
The knight read it; and in that age, when astro·
logy was considered a science as unerring as holy
prophecies, it would have been little less than infi-
delity to have doubted the truth of the prediction.
Sir Maurice, however, was wise enough to withold
the paper from his lady ; and in answer to her in-
quiries, continually asserted that the gipsey was an
impostor, and that the object of his assuming the
character was merely to increase her alms.
The fated child grew in health and beauty ; and
as we are the most usually the more strongly at-
tached to pleasures in proportion to the brevity of
continuance, so did the melancholy fate of his son
more firmly fix him in the heart of Sir M~urice.
Often did the wondering lady observe the countenance
of her husband with surprise, as watching the en-
dearing sportiveness of the boy, his countenance, at
first brightened by the smile of paternal love, gra.
dually darkened to deepest grief, till unable to sup·
press his tears, he would cover the child with
Digi '"d by Google
128 TRAUMATUaGU, OR
caresses, and rush from the room. To all inquiries,
Sir Maurice was silent, or returned evasive answers.
We shall pa!!s over the infancy of young Walter,
and resume the narrative at the period in which he
entered into his twentieth year. His mother waa
now d~d, and had left two other children, both girls,
who, however, 11hared little of their father's love,
which was almost exclusively fixed on Walter, and
appeared to encrease in strength as the fatal time
grew near.
It is not to be supposed that he took no precau·
tion against the predicted event. Sometimes hope
suggested that a mistake might have been made in
the horoscope, or that the astrologer might have
overlooked some sign which made the circumstance
conditional ; and in unison with the latter idea he
determined to erect a strong building, where, during
the year in which his doom was to be consumated,
Walter might remain in solitude. He accordingly
gave direction!! for raising a single tower, peculiarly
formed to prevent ingress, except by permission of
its inhabitants. The purpose of this strange building.
however, he kept secret; and his neighbours, after
numerous vain conjectures, gave it the name of
" Cooke's Folly."
Walter, himself, was kept ·entirely ignorant of the
subject, and all his inquiries were answered with
tears. At length the tower was completed, and
furnished with all things necessary for comfort and
convenience; and on the eve of Walter's completing
his twentieth year, Sir Maurice shewed him the
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE IUaVBLLOUS, I 29
gipsey's ~;croll, and begged him to make use of the
retreat prepared for him till the year expired.
Walter at first treated the matter lightly, laughed
at the prophecy, and declared he would not lose a
year's liberty if all the astrologers in the world were
to croak their ridiculous prophecies against him.
Seeing, however, his father 1;0 earnestly bent on tht
matter, his resolution lJegan to give way, and at
length he consented to the arrangement. A£ six the
following .morning, therefore, Walter entered the
tower, which he fastened within as strongly as iron ban
would admit, and which was secured outside in a
manner equally firm. He took possession of his
voluntary prisoxt with melancholy feelings, ra~er
occasioned by the loss of present pleasure, ~han the
fear of future pain. He sighed as he ·looked upon
the wide domain before him, and thought how ead
would it be to hear the joyous horn summoning his
companions to the chase, and find himself prevented
from attending it-to hear the winter wind howling
round his tower, and rushing between the rocks
beneath him, and miss the cheerful song and merry
jest, which were wont to make even the blast a
pleasant sound. Certainly bios time passed as plea-
santly as circumstances permitted. He dr~w up in
a basket, at his meal hours, every luxury which the
!e&son produced. His father and sisters daily con-
versed with him from below, for a considerable
time; and the morris-dancers often raised his laughter
·by their grotesque movements.
Weeks and months thus passed, and Walter still
was well and cheerful. His own and his sisters'
J[
ISO THAUIIIATURGIA, OR
hopes grew more lively, but the anxiety of Sir
Maurice increased. The dav drew near which was
to restore his son to his a~s in confident eecnrity,
or to fulfil the prediction which left him without an
heir to his name and honours.
On the preceding afternoon Walter continually
endeavoured to cheer his parent, by speaking of
what he would do on the morrow ; desired his sisters
to send round to all their friends, that he might
stretch his limbs once more in the merry dance ; and
continued to talk of the future with much confidence,
that even Sir Maurice caught a spark of hope from
the fiery spirits of the youth.
As the night drew on, and his sisters were about
to lea1e him, promising to wake him at t!ix by a
song, in an~wer to their usual inquiry if he "fanted
any thing more that night, " Nothing," said he,
" and yet the night feels chilly, and I have little
fuel left-send me one more faggot." This was sent
him, and as he drew it up, " This," said he, " is the
last time I shall have to dip for my waRts, like an
old woman for water : thank God ! for it is
wearisome work to the arm."
Sir Maurice still .lillgered under the window in
conversation with his son, who at length complained
.of being cold and drowsy. " Mark," said he, as
he closed the window; "mark father, Mars, the
star of my fate, looks smilingly to-night, p.ll will be
well." Sir Maurice looked up-a dark cloud spot
suddenly crossed the planet, and he shuddered at the
omen. The anxious father could not leave the spot.
Sleep l1e knew it was vain to court, and he therefore
BLUCIDATIO!IIE Of THB lfARVBLLOUB. 131
determined to remain where he was. The refiexions
that occupied his mind continually varied : at one
time be painted to himself the proud career of his
high spirited boy, known and admired among the
mighty of his time ; a moment after he saw the pre-
diction verified, and the child of his love lying in the
tomb. Who can conceive his feelings as hour
dragged after hour, while he walked to and fro,
' watching the blaze of the fire in the tower, as it
brightened and sunk again-now pacing the court
with hasty steps, and now praying fervently for the
preservation of his son ? The hour came. The ca-
thedral bell rtruck heavy on the father's heart, which
was not to be lightened by the cheerful voices of his
daughters, who came running full of hope to the
foot of the tower. They looked up, bufWalter was
not there ;-they ~ed his name, he answered not.
"Nay," said the youngest, " this is only a jest; he
thinks to frighten us, but I know he is safe." A
servant had brought a ladder, which he ascended,
and he looked in at thj window. Sir Maurice stood
immoveable and silent.-He looked up, and the man
answered the anxious expression of his eyes. " He
is asleep," said he. " He is dead!" murmured the
father.
The servant broke a pane of glass in the window,
and opening the casement, entered the room. The
father, changing his gloomy stedfastness for frenzied
anxiety, rushed up the ladder. The servant had
thrown aside the curtains and the clothes, and dis-
played to the eyeS' of Sir Maw;ice, his son lying dead,
a eerpent twined round his arm, and his throat co-
s: 2
Digi '"d by Google
..
132 THAUIIATt:RGIA, OR
vered with blood. The reptile had crept up the
faggot last sent him, and fulfilled the prophecy.
To this happy effort of the imagination in favour
of prying into futurity, may be added, with the same
intention,
THE PATKD PA&RICIDK; AN ORlBNTAL TALE OJ' TBl\
STARS.
Ibrahim was univenally celebrated for his riches
and magnificence. His armies wt-re formidable, his 1
victories splendid, and his treasury inexhaustible.
He enjoyed, moreover, what was ten thousand limes
more eolid and more valuable than riches-the love
and veneration ofhis subjects; and he had a beautiful
young wif~ in whose endearing tenderness alone he
could find happiness-if happineSI! could be found on
earth. All these advantages entitled Ibrahim to the
appellation of the Solomon of his age ; and yet IQra-
him was not happy. A son was wanting to crown
his felicity. In vain did a heart formed for all the
charities of the wedded statt endeavour to supply
the refusal ofnature, by the adoption of a son ; in vain
didgratitudeeudeavour to deceive his heart, bycares-
seswhich any other would have thought to be the natu-
ral effusions offilial sensibility, of filial piety and afrec-
tion ; that heart incessantly perceived a solitude within
itself. Even the consolatory visions of hope began to
grow less frequent, when heaven at last heard his
prayers. Alas! in the very instant that Fortune gra-
tifies our fondest wi~es, she often betrays us ; and
her smiles are a thousand times more fnta1 than her
Digi '"d by Google.
~lilill-a-1
BLUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVBLLOUB. 133
frowns. The birth of the prince was celebrated
throughout the empire by the customary public de-
monstrations of joy. The felicity of Ibrahim was
complete. He was perpetually revolving in his mind
the sentiments and hopes which the nation would
form of the royal infant. Scarce was he born, when
paternal solicitude embraced, as it were, his whole
life. Impatient to know his destiny, that solicitude
plunged into futurity, determined, if possible, to
· wrest from time, the secrets of which he was the
hoary-headed guardian.
In Ibrahim's dominions were some sages particu-
larly honoured with the confid~nce of heaven. He-
commanded them to consult the stana, and to report
their answer. " Tremble,"'said the sages; " thou
anfortunate father, tremble! Never before have the
skies presented such inauspiciolls omene. Let him
6y; let this son, too dear to you, fly ; let him avoid,
ifpossible, the meeting with any savage beasts. His
seventh year is the fatal one; and if he should happen
then, to escape the misfortune that hangs-over him,
ah! do not wish him to live. His father, his very
father, will not be able to escape from the hand of a
parricide." -
This answer threw the sultan into the deepest con-
sternation. He did not sink, however, into absolute
despondency; his courage soon revived. He deter-
mined to take all the precautions which paternal
tenderness could suggest, to defeat the prediction of
the astrologers. He, therefore, caused a kind of
subterranean palace to be made on the summit of a
lofty mountain. The labour and expense of the exca-
J34 THAUMATURGIA, OB.
ntion wu prodigiotJtl. Extensive wn.lks were formed,'
with a variety of apartmentp, in which every thing
wu provided that could contribute to the convenie!l-
ces, and even the luxuries of life. In this magnifi-
cent cavern, Ibrahim, as it were, inhumed his son,
together with his governess, of whose care and fidelity
he had no doubt. Provieions were constantly carried
thither at stated periods. The king forgot not a WI-
gle day to ·visit the mountain that contained his
beloved treasure, and to be satisfied of his eafety with •
his own eyes. With what delight did he behold the
gro'!'ing beauties of his son ! With what pleasure
and raptnre did be listen to his sprightly l!aillies of
wit, his smart repartees, and those pretty notlliltgs
which a father, in particular, is fond to recollect and·
to repeat ; at which the most rigid gravity may smile,
and which are worth all the understanding of riper
years. He was perpetually counting the hours and
• minutes that lie had to !!pend with his son'; and he
incessantly reproached himself, for not seeing him
more frequently. ·
Shah Abbas, for such was his name, at length
reached his seventh year, that fatal year, which
Ibrahim would fain have delayed, ·even. at the expense
of his crown. He would never leave his son a minute.
But, alas ! is it potosible to escape our destiny ?
Summoned one day to his palace by affairs of the
most pressing exigency, he left the mountain with
extreme reluctance. Never bad Shah Abbas ap-
peared more amiable in his father's eyes, never had
Ibrahim appeared more affectionate to his son ! Each
was tormented by an uneasy sensation, an unaccount-
•
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THE IIARVBLLOUB. 13~
•able presentiment that they were to meet there no
more!
Some robbers were hunting wild beasts : the
ardour of the pursuit brought them to this mountain.
A lion that fied from them, perceived the subterra-
neous passsage, and took refuge in it. The robbers,
who durst not follow him, waited, however, for the·
sequel of this adventure. On a sudden, they heard a
violent liCream, and presently all was silent. This
silence suggested to them, that the cavern now con-
~ed, not a living creature, but the lion. They
threw down a quantity of stones, which soon put an
end to the existence of the formidable animal. They
then descended into the cavern, securing themselves
from all further danger from the lion by cutting o1f
his head. wandering through every part of thi~
subterraneous palace, they were astonil'hed at the
prodigious riches which they beheld. They perceived
a slaughtered woman: this was the prince's governess.
By her side lay a child covered with blood, who shew-
ed, however, some signs oflife. They examined his
wounds : they found not one of them dangerous.
The captain of these banditti, after stripping the
cavern of its valuable contents, dressed the young
prince's wounds himself, and e1fected a cure. The
·growingqualities of Shah Abbas endeared him to the
chief, who adopted him as his son, and distinguished
him as such by all the tenderness of a paternal heart.
Some veai"s had elapsed since Ibrahim had first
deplored ·the loss of a son, who, having been con-
ltalltly ignorant of the name and titles of his father,
had been unable to explain his•origin to the robbers,
Digi '"d by Google
•
136 TBAUJIATUROJA, 01\
was soon to become their chief. Such were the un·
accountable caprices of fortune, which led to the
completion of the prophecy, that had destined him to
become one day a parricide. Ibrahim was wont to
divert his grief by the pleasures of the chase ; and
this exercise soon became almost his only occupation.
One evening that he had strayed, with a very slender
escort, into the defiles of a very solitary mountain, a
troop of robbers rushed upon him. The combat for
sometime ·was furious. An arrow pierced the king;
it excited the spirit of vengeance in his attendants,
and they fought, determined to conquer or die.
They were soon victorious. The murderer was taken,
and conducted to the metropolis, that he might un-
dergo the punishm~nt due to his crime.
Ibrahim, on the bed of death, summoned the astro·
logers to attend him, and thus addressed them : " I
was to have perished, you told me, by the hand of a
son ; but it is the hand of a robber that has infficted
the blow."-'' Sire," answered the sages, "forbear
to seek an explanation. The robber" ••••••They
proceed no further. The young robber appears, and
relates his history. Ibrahim, while he bowed in sub-
mission to God, and adored His inscrutable decrees,
blessed Him also for having restored his son ; and the .
tears which he saw flow from the eyes of Shah
Abbas, were a consolation in his dying moments•
•
BLUCIDATJONS OF THB MARVBLLOUB. 137
APPLICATION OF ASTROLOGY TO THlC PROLONOATIO~
OF LIFE, &c,
Astrology was also made subservient to the means
of prolonging human life ; but how an art which
determines the fate of mortals, and ascertains the
impassable limits of the grave, could consistently
be made subservient to such a purpose, we are
rather at a loss to conceive, unless accounted for
as follows. The teachers of divination maintained,
that not only men. but all natural bodies, plants,
animals, nay even whole countries, including every
place and family, were under the government of
some particular planet. As soon as the masters of
the occult science had discovered by their tables,
under what constellation the misfortune or distemper
ofany person originated, nothing farther was required,
than that he should remove to a dwelling ruled by
an opposite planet, and confine himself exclusively
to such articles offood and drink as were under the
influence of a different star. In this artificial manner
they contrived to form a system, or peculiar classi-
fication of planets, namely, Lunar, Solar, Mercurial
and the like-and hence arose a confused map of
dictated rules, which, when considered with reference
to the purposes of health, cleanliness, exercise etc.
form, remarkable contrasts to those of the Greeks.
But this preventive and repulsive method was not
merely confined to persons who suffered under I!OII)e
bodily disorder: even individuals, who enjoyed a
good state of health, if an unlucky constellation
Digi '"d b,.Google
138 TRA'GIIATUROIA, Oa
happened to forebode a severe disease, or a!ly other
misfortune, were directed to choose a place of resi-
dence influenced by a more friendly star-or to adopt
such aliment only, as being under the auspices of a
propitiow star, might counteract the malignant
influence of its antagonist.
It wa!l also pretty generally believed and main·
tained, that a eort of intimate relation or sympathy sub·
sisted between metals and plants : hence the namesof
the latter were given to the former, in order to denote
this supposed connexion and affinity. The correspond·
ing metals were melted into a common mass, under
a certain planet, and were formed into small medals,
or coins, with the firm persuasion, that he who
carried such a piece about his pereon, might con·
tidently expect the whole favour and protection of the
planet, thns represented.* Thus we perceive bow
easy the transition is from one degree of folly to
another ; and this may help to account for the shock·
iog delusions practised in the manufacturing and
wearing of metallic amulets of a peculiar mould, to
which were attributed, by a sort of magic influence,
the power and protection of the respective planet:
these charms were thought to possess virtue sufficient
to overrule the bad effects presaged by an unlucky
hour of birth, to promote to places of honour and
profit, and to be of potent efficacy in matters of
commerce and matrimony. The German soldiers, in
the dark and superstitious ages, believed that il the
figure of Mars, cast and engraved under the sign of
• Vide Amulets passim.
Digi i?ed
EJ.t:C"U::ATICNS OF THE MARVELLOUS.
the Scorpion, were wom about the neck, it would
render them invulnerable, and insure success to their
military·enterprises-hence the reason why amulets
were then found upon every soldier, either killed in
battle or taken prisoner.
We shall so far conclude these observations on the
chimera of astrology and medicine with the following
remarks in the words of Chamber against Knight's
work,* which defends this fanciful science, if science
it may be called. " It demonstrates nothing while
it defends every thing. It confutes, according to
• Lilly's work,. a voluminous quarto monument of the
' folly of the age, was sold originally for four guineas; it is
entitled " Christian Astrology," modestly treated, in three
books, by William Lilly, student in Astrology, 2nd. edition
1659. Every p"ge is embellished with a horoscope which,
sitting on the pretending tripod, he explains with the utmost
facility. There is also a portrait of this arch rogue and
•tar-gazer, an admirable illustration for Lavater. As to
Lilly's great skill in prophecy, there goes a pleaMnt story
related by a kinsman of Dr. Case, his successor-namely-
that a person wanting to consult him on a certain point
coming to bis bouse one morning, Lilly himself going to the
door, saw a piece of filthy carrion which 110me one, who had
more wit than manners, bad left there : and being much
oll'ended at its unsightly appearance wished heartily he did
but know who bad treated him in that manner by leaving
sach an unwelcome legacy, as it were, in his very teeth,
that be might punish them accordingly.; which his customer
obse"ing when the colljurer demanded his business, " No-
thing at all," said be, " for I'm sure if you can't find out
who baa defiled your own door, it is il)lpossible you
should disconr anytl.ing relating to me," and with this
caustic remark be left him.
~-·· 9, '"d by Coogle
~..o TRAUMATURGIA, OR
Knight's own ideas: it alleges a few scattered facts in
favour of astrological productions, which may be
picked up in that immeneity of fabling whichdisgraces
history. He strenuously denies, or ridicules, what
the greatest writers have said of this fanciful art,
while he lays great stress on some passages from
ob~ure authors, or what is worse, from authors ofno
authority."-The most pleasant part, however, is at
the close where he defends the art from the objections
of' Mr. Chamber by recrimination. Chamber had
enriched himself by medical practice, and when he
charges the astrologers by merely aiming to gain a
few beggarly pence, Sir Christopher catches fire, and
shews by his quotations, that if we are to despise an
art by its professors attempting to subsist, or for the
objections which may be raised against its vital prin-
ciples, we ought by this argument most heartily to
despise the medical science, and medical men ; he
gives all here he can collect against physic and phy-
sicians, and from the confessions of Galen and Hip-
pocrates, Avicenna and Agrippa, medicine is made
to appear a vainer science than even astrology
itself.
Lilly's opinions, and his pretended science, were
auch favourites ofthe age, that the learned Gataker*
• The Reverend and learned Thomas Gataker, with who~n
Lilly was engaged in a dispute, in his Annotations on the
tenth chapter -of Jeremiah and lOth verse, called bim a
'• blind buzzard," and Lilly reflected again on his anta-
gonist in his .Annus Tenebrow.s. Mr. Gataker's reply was
entitled Thomas Gataker, B. D. his Vindication of the
annotation by him published upon these words, "thus saith
o igi '"d by Goo 4:,.._ _
KLUCJDATIONS OF TRB MARVELLOUS, ] 41
wrote professedly .against this popular delusion: At
the head of his star-expounding friends, Lilly not only
formally replied to, but perr:ecuted Gataker annually
in his predictions, and even struck at his ghost, when
beyondthe grave. Gataker died in July 1654, and Lilly,
having written in his almanack for that year, for the
month of August, the following barbaroU! latin
line-
Hoc in tumbo, jacet presbyter et nebulo!
Here in this tomb lies a presbyter and a knave,
had the impudence to assert, that he had pre-
dicted Gataker's death! But the truth is, it was an
empty epitaph to the " Lodgings to let :" it stood
empty, reader, for the first passenger that the im-
mortal ferryman should carry over the Styx.
But hear that arch imposter Old Patridge of more
the Lord," (Jer. x. 2) against the scurrilous aspersions of
that grand impostor William Lilly ; as also against the
various expositions of two of his advocates Mr John Swan,
and another by him cited but not named. Together with
the Annotations themselves, wherein the pretended grounds
of judiciary astrology, and the scripture proofs product>d
to it, 11re discussed and refuted. London, 1653, in 4th part
192. Our author waking animndv!!raions on this piece
in his English Merlin, 1654 produced a third piece from
Mr. Gataker, called a Discourse apologetic~tl, wher~n
Lilly•s lewd, and loud lies in bi~ Merlin or Pasquil for -
1654, are clearly laid open; his shameless desertion of his
own cause further discovered, his abominable slanders fully
, refuted, and his malicious and murt!aerous mind, inciting
·to a general massacre of God's ministeJ:S, from his own pen,
evidently known, etc. London 1654.
I jr~ .
Digi '"d by Google
142 TBA'CKATUllGIA, Oil
modern date whose gullerie• appev to have no end.
" The practice of astrology is divided into !p~!Culative
and theoretical." (Astronomy and judicial astrology).
The first teaches us how to know the stars and
planets, and to find their places and motions. The
eecond directs us to the knowledge of the influence
and operations of the stare and planets upon sublunary
bodies, and without this last the former is of little
use. Astronomy cannot direct and inform us of the
secret influences and operatione of the stars and
planets, without the assistance of the most sublime
art of astrology. For astronomy is conversant aho!lt
the subject of this art, and doth furnish the astrologer
with matter whereon to exercise his judgment, but
astrology disposes this matter into predictions, or
rational conjectures, as time and occasion reqnire.
" The practice again is subdivided into two parts, or
quadripartite, as Ptolomy (lib. 2) de"clares : the first
- considers the general state of the world, and from
eclipses and comets, great conjunctione, annual revo·
lutions, quarterly ingressions and lunatione, also the
rising, culminating, and setting of the fixed stars,
together with the configurations of the planets both
to the sun and among themselves, judgment is
deduced, and the astrologer doth frame his annaal
predictions of all sensitive and vegetative things lying
in the air, earth, or water: of plague, plenty, dearth,
mutations of the air, wars, peace, and other general
accidents of countries, provinces, cities, etc.
" The second of these subdivided parts, in particu-
lar, respects only the private state of every single
man and woman, which must be performed from the
Digi '"d by Google
:ILUCIDAnONS OP TBK MARV.KLLOUS. ]43
acheme of the nativity, tfu;Jmowledge of which is ~f
most excellent use to all persont!. Therefore let the
nativities of children be diligently observed for the
future, that is to say, the day, hour, and minute of
birth as near as can be, which will be of use to the
astrological physician, for the most principal conjec-
ture of the malignity of the disea..~. whether it be
curable, or shall end with death, depends npon the
knowledge of the nativity ; and very rarely any dis-
ea.ee invades a person, but some unfortunate direction
ofthe luminaries or ascendant to the body, or beams
ofmalignant planets preceded the same, or did then
operate, or at least some evil revolution, profec-
tion or transit, which cannot be discovered by any
other way but by astrology. Moreover, it would be
convenient that the true time of the first falling sick
be observed precisely, and by that, together with the
nativity, be judiciously compared, the physician !!hall
gain flOre credit than by . all his other skill ; and
herein, the astrologer's foresight shall often contra-
dict the judgment of the physician ; for when the
aatrologer foretells a phlegmatic man, that at such a
time be shall be affiicted witp a choleric disease, the
doctor will perceive by his physical symptoms, the
astrologer, from his knowledge In more secret causes
of nature, hath excelled him in his art.
" Now if God Almighty do not countermand or
check the ordinary course of nature, or the matter of
elementarY bodies here below be not unproportion-
able. and thereby unapt to receive their impressions.
there is no reason why, in a natural and physical ne-
cessity, astrological predictions should not succeed
....
Digi '"d by Google
lH THAUIIATUROJA, 01.
and take effect, and bl how much the knowled,ae
which we have by the known causes is more demons·
trative and infallible than that which we have either
by signs or effects, so much by this companion doth
Astrology appear worthy to be preferred before
Physic." Cardan, who was an excellent physician
saith : " If by the art of Astrology he had not better
attained to the knowledge of his diseases, than the
physician that would have administered to him by his
skill, he h11d been assuredly cured by death, rather
than preserved alive by physic. (Vide his Comment.
upon Ptol. Quidrepart.) From hence it appears it is ,
necesSill)' that the physician should be skilful in as·
trology, but on the contrary, e~ quoois legM Mil
fit Mercurius, every astrologer cannot be a physician;
jf the nativity be but precisely known, or if, but
lempU8 ablatum or suppositum, and withall!ome not·
able accidents of sickness, danger of drowning, peril
by fire, marriage, or other, the like accidentspay be
foreseen."
The astrologers were a set of cunning, equivocal
rogues ; the more cautious of whom only uttered
their prognostications in obscure and ambiguous Ian·
guage, which might be applied to all things, times, ·
princes, and nations whatever. An almanack maker,
a Spanish friar, predicted, in clear and precise words
the death of Henry the Fourth of France ; an
PieroJse, though he had no faith in star-gazing, yet
alarmed at whatever menaced the life of a belov
sovereign, consulted with some of the king's friends
and had the Spanish almanack laid before his Majesty
who courteously thanked them for their solicitud
Digi '"d by Google
"-
'*"' ••
ELUCIDATIONS 011' THB .MARVBLLOUS~ 14!J
but utterly slighted the prediction : the event oc-
curred, and in the following year, the Spanish Lilly
spread his own fame in an new almanack. This pre-
diction of the friar, was the result either of his being
·acquainte'd with the plot, or from his being made an
instrument for the purposes of those who were.
Cornelius Agrippa rightly designates astrologers
"a perverse and preposterous generation of men, who
profess to know future things, but in the meantime are
altogether ignorant of past and present ; and under-
taking to tell all people most obscure and hidden
secrets abroad, at the same time, know not what
happens in their own houses."
But this Agrippa, for profound
And solid lying,· was renown'd:
The Anthroposophus, and Floud,
And .Jacob Behmen, understood ;
Knew many an amulet and chann
That would do neither good nor harm.
He understood the speech of birds
As well as they themselves do words ;
Could tell what subtlest parrots mean
That speak and think contrary, clean;
What member 'tis of whom they tslk,
Why they cry, rope and-walk, knave, walk.
He could foretell whatever was
By consequence to come to pallS ;
As death of great men, alterations,
Diseases, battles, inundations :
All this without th' eclipse o' th' suo,
Or dreadful comet, he hath done
By inward light, a way as good,
And easy to be understood :
But with more lucky bit than those
That use to make the stsrs depose
L
Digi '"d by Google
146 TBAUIIATURGJA, 0&
A& if they were consenting to
All mischief in the world men do:
Or like the devil, did tempt and sway 'em
To rogueries, and then betray 'em.
We shall conclude our astrological strictures with the
following advertisement, which affords as fine asatiri·
cal specimen of quackery as is to be met with. It is
extracted from "poor Robin's" almanack for 1773;
and may not be without its use, to many at the pre·
sent day. We will vouch for it being harmless, but
as we are not in the secret of all that it con1;e.W,
our readers must endeavour to get the information
that may be wanted, on certain important points,
from other quarters. It will shew, however, that
the almanack astrologers did not live upon the best
terms, but like their predecessors, were constantly
abusing and attacking each other.
ADVBRTJBII:MKNT.
'' The best time to cut hair. How moles:and dreams
are to be .interpreted. When most proper season to
bleed. Under what aspect of the moon best to draw i
teeth, and cut corns. Pairing of nails, on what day
unlucky. What the kindest sign to graft or inocu· '
late in ; to open bee-hives, and kill swine. How I
many hours boiling my Lady Kent's pudding requires.
With other notable questions, fully and faithfully re- I
solved, by me Sylvester Patridge, student in physic
and astrology, near the Gun in Moorfields."
" Of whom likewise may be had, at reasonable rates,
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCJDATIONS o• THB IURVKLLOU8. 147
trusses, antidotes, elixirs, love-powders. Washes for
freckles, plumpers, glass-eyes, false calve• and n01e1,
ivory-jaws, and a new receipt to turn red hairintoblack.
Old Robin's almanack was evidently the best of the
time, and free from all the astrological cant with
which Patridge's Merlinus Liberatus was filled;
against which Poor Robin did not a little declaim.
The motto to his title runs thus :-
" We use no weather-wise predictions
Nor any such-Iikl' airy fictions ;
But (which we think is lliUCh the best)
Write the plain truth, or crack a jest:
And (without any further pretence)
Confess we write, and think of the pence :
For that's the aim of all who write,
Profit to pin, mixed with delight."
Poor old Robin attacked the astrologers of his day
with no little vehemence : " How different a task is
it," says he, " for man to behave so in this world as
to please all the people that inhabit it ! A man who
makes use of his best endeavours to please every body
is sure to please but very few, and by that means
displease a great many ; which may very possibly be
the case with poor Robin this year. But (be that as
it will) old Bob is sometimes well pleased, when
rogues, prick-eared coxcombs, fools, and such like,
are the most displeased at him : be it therefore
known, that it is only men of sense and integrity,
(whether they have much money or no money) that
he has any, (the levt) regard for: I see very plainly.
that an humble man is (generally) accounted ba~e; if
Digi '"d by Google
148 THAUMATUROJA, OR
otherwise, he is esteemed proud; a bold look is looked
upon as impudence; if modest, (then to be sure) he must
be hypocritical; if his behaviour is grave, it is owing
to a nllenne88 of temper ; if affable, he is but little
regarded ; if strictly just, then cruel must be his cba·
racter ; but, if merciful and forbearing, then (ofconse·
quence) a silly, sheepish-headed fool! Now, I cbal·
lenge all the ASS•TROLOGBRS and CONIURBRS, through·
out the whole kingdom, to demonstrate that all
the whimsey-headed opinions which different men
retain of different actions, together with their being
80 vastly different at different times, one from another;
I say, I call upon them ALL to prove, that they are
(wholly) owing to the STARRY ·influences! There
being, (I believe) in general as many different ideas
and conceptions in the mind of mankind, as there are
variety of complexions and countenances."
His observations on the fou(unequal quarters of the
year, as he terms them, are no less satirical, humoroua,
and full of truth, and 80 much in " opposition" with
others of the trade, that poor old Robin, in good sense
and trite remarks, carries away the palm from all his
predecessors and contemporaries; indeed, he is so little
of an astrologer, that, instead of consulting the an-
gles, aspects, conjunctions and trines, of the planets,
he is vulgar enough to attach more importance to the
substantials and doings of this nether world. We
present our readers with the following as a specimen,
which, though in his usual way, a little rough-mouth·
ed, occasionally is free from that almanack-cant which
c.haracterises the vocations of his fellow-labourers ,
in the same field.-
BLUCJDATIONB OP THB IURVBLLOUB. 149
SPRING,
which, being the most delightful season in the whole
yar, as it comes the next after a long and cold winter
makes it as welcome as it is delightful ; for now the
lengthening days afford full time for every body but
drunkards and watchmen to finish their respective
.day's works by day-light, besides some time to spare
to walk abroad, to see the fine new livery with which
Dame Floro has now decked out Mater Earth. In
the opening of the Spring, when all nature begins to
recover herself, the same animal pleasure which makes
the bird sing, and the whole brute creation rejoice,
rises very sensibly in the hearts of mankind. This
quarter will bring whole shoals of mackerel, and
plenty of green pease ; likewise gooseberries, cherries,
cheese.cakes, and custards.
But, let us now moralize,-and improve these
vernal delights into real virtue ; and, when we find
within ourselves a secret satisfaction arising from the
beauties of the creation, may we consider to whom we
stand indebted for all these various gratifications and
entertainments of sense; who it is that opens thus
his band, and fills the world with good ! But eo
1100n as thiS quarter is ended ; i. e. there, or then,
or thereabout, for in this case a day or two can break
no great squares-I say this quarter (as usual) will
be followed by the ·
6t1HMBR,
when, and at which time the days will have attained
their greatest, and consequently the nights the
Digi '"d by Google
150 TBAUKATUJI.GIA, Oil
shortest lengths. June, in which month this quarter
is said to begin, will retain some likenet!s, if not ex-
hibit the perfections of the Spring ; but the two next
succeeding months will perhaps have less vigour, but
a greater degree of heat; for, as they pass on, they
will be ripening the fruits of the earth ; whilst the
Dog star is shooting his rays amongst, the industrious
farmer will have business enough upon his hands : for
now he ex~ to be reaping and gathering together
the returns oWais labour ; but then he must expect,
nevertheless, Aar the heat and burthen of the day.
This quarter very justly represents a man in the
full vigour of health and strength ; the beauty of the
Spring is gone ! The strength of Summer is of short
continuance! It will very soon be succeeded by Au·
tumn : thus, and thus (0 reader) do then consider ,
hast thou seen the seasons, two, three, or four times
return in regular succession : remember that the time
is coming, when all opportunities of this sort will
be for ever hid from thine eyes : remember if forty
years have passed thee, I say, I would have thee
remember, that thy spring is gone, thy summer al-
most spent ! Have then, therefore, a very serious
retrospective view of thy past, and, (if it please God}
a fixed resolution to amend thy prolonged life : then
being now arrived almost on the eve of
AUTUMN
which begins this year (as usual) when, or then, or
thereabouts, the time the Summer quarter ends-
namely, when the nights begin to grow longer and the
BLUCIDATIONS OP THB IURVBLLOUB'. 151
days shorter : this is the time when the barns are
filled with wheat, which soou must be thrashed out, in
order to be sowed again. This also is the time when
the orchards abound with fruits ofthe kind, and conse-
quently the properest time to make cider.
lamentable now must be the case of those poor
women who, in this quarter, happen to long for green
pease or strawberries ; for I dare 8l!81lre them, upon
the MIU!8t word of an astrologer, that they can get
none on this side of next Easter. Some now-abouts
under the notion of soldier!!, shall sally out at night
upon Pullen, or perhaps lie in embuscade for a rope
of onions, as if they were Welsh freebooters. Loss
of time and money may be recovered by industry :
but to be a fool-hom, or a rogue in nature, are di-
seases incurable.
Remember that in any q\lart('r .of the year, this is
almost always a certain presage of a wedding, when
all parties are agreed, and the parson in readiness ;
and then you must be sure to have money in readiness
too, or your intended marriage may happen to prove
a miscarriage. But those who are able to pay for
tying the knot, when it is fairly tied, may go home to
dinner and be merry ; go to the tavern and be merry ;
~ to supper and be merry ; rise ·next morning and
be merry: and let the world know, that a married life
is a plentiful life, when people have good estates ; a
fruitful life when they have many children ; and an
happy life, when man and wife love each other as they
ought to do, and never quarrel nor disagree.
152 TRAUMATURGIA, 0&
OP TRB WINTBR QUARTER,
But now comes on the cold, dirty, dithering, pont·
ing, rainy, shivering, freezing, blowing, stormy,
blustering, crnel quarter called winter; the very
thoughts of it are enough to fright one ; but that it
very luckily happens to be introduced (this year) by
a good, fat merry Christmas : yet it is the last and
worse, and very much resembles extreme old age
accompanied by poverty ; this quarter is also pretty
much like Pbaroah's lean kine; for it generally (we
find) eats up and devours most of the produce of
the preceding seasons : now the sun entering the
southern tropic, affords us the least share ofhis light,
and consequently the longest long nights : yet,
neverthelest', in this uncomfortable quarter, you may
possibly pick up some crumbs of comfort, provided
you have good health, good store of the ready Rhino,
a good wife, and other good things 11bout you : and
especially a good conF.cience : for then the starry
influences must necessarily appear very benign, not-
withstanding the inclemency of the weather ; for in
such cases there will be frequent conjunctions of sir-
loins and ribs of beef ; aspectB of legs and shoulders of
mutton, with refrenations of loins of veal, shining near
the watery triplicity of plumb-porridge-together with
trine and sextile of minced pies ; collared brawn from
the Ursus major, and sturgeon from Pisces--all for
the honour of Christmas : and I thiak it is a much
pleasanter sight than a Covent-Garden comedy, to see
a dozen or two of husbandmen, ~armers, and honest
Digi '"d by Google
•
BLUCIDATIONS OP TBB MABVBLLOUS. 153
tenants, at a nobleman's table (who never raised their
rents) worry a sirloin, and hew down, (I mean cut
up) a goose like a log: while a good Cheshire cheese,
and plenty of nappy ale, and strong March beer,
washes down the merry goblets, sets all their wit
afloat, and sends them to their respective homes, as
happy as kings.
And now, kind loving readertr, every one,
God send y'a good new-year, when the old one 'a gone•
\ Digi '"d by Google
I 54 TBAUMATUROU., OR
CHAPTER X.
ONBIROCRITICAL PRBSBNTIMBNT, ILLUSTRATING THB
CAUlK, BI'I'BCTS, PRINCIPAL PHENOMENA, AND
DBPINITION 011' DREAMS, BTC.
As we shall have to speak of the art practised
through the medium, tenned incubation, of curing
diseases, it may be proper to say something pre·
viously on the interpretation of dreams through
whose agency these events were said to be realized.
Oneirocritics, or interpreters of dreams, were
called conjecturers, a very fit and proper name for
these worldly wise men, according to the following
lines, translated from Euripides-
He that conjectures least amiss
Of all, the best of prophets is.
To the delusion of dreams not -a few of the an-
cient philosophers lent themselves. Among these
were Democritus, Aristotle, and his follower The-
mistius,-Siresius the Platonic; who so far relied on
dreams which some accident or other brought about,
Digi '"d by Google
--.: -*?!:25 I.
BLVCIDATIONS OJ' THB MABVBLLOUB. 165
that they thence endeavoured to persuade men there
are no dreams but what are founded on realities.
For, say they, as the celestial iniluences produce
various forma and changes in corporeal matter, so
out of certain iniluences, predouiinating over the
f power of the fancy, the impression of visions is
• made, being consentaneous, through the disposition
Iof the heavens, to the effect produced ; more espe-
cially in dreams, because the mind, being then at
liberty from all corporeal cares and exercises, more
freely receives the divine inftuences : it happens,
therefore that many things are revealed to them
that are asleep, which are concealed from them that
are awake. With these and such reasons it is pre·
tended that much is communicated through the
medium of dreams :
When soft sleep the body lays at ease,
And from the heavy mass the fancy free!,
Whate'er it is in which we take delight,
And think of moat by day we dream at night.
The transition from sleep is very natural to that
of dreams, the wonderful and mysterious pheno-
mena of that state, the ideal transactions and vain
illwons of the mind. According to Wolfius, an
emiaent philosopher of Silesia, every dream origi-
nates in some sensation, and is continued by the
811Ccession of phantoms ; but no phantasm can arise
in the mind without some p~evious sensation. And
yet it is not easy to confirm this by experience, it
being often difficult to distinguish those slight sensa-
tions, which give rise to dreams, from l>hantasms,
Digi '"d by Google
156 TBAUMATURGJA, OR
or objects of imagination.* The series of phantasms
which thus constitute a dream, seems to be accounted
for by the law of the imagination, or association of
.ideas ; though it may be very difficult to assign the
cause of every minute difference, not only in diffe-
rent subjects, but in the same, at different times,
and in different circumstances. And hence M.
Formey, who adopts the opinion of Wolfius, con-
cludes, that those dreams are supernatural, which
either do not begin by sensation, or are not con-
tinued by the law of imagination.t
· This opinion is as old as Aristotle, who asserted.
that a dream is only the ibaVTatTp.a or appearance of
things, excited in the mind, and remaining after
the objects are removed.l The opinion of Lucretius,
translated in our motto, was likewise that of Tully.§
Locke also traces the origin of dreams to previous
sensations. .. The dreams of sleeping men," says
this profound philosopher, .. are all made up of the
waking man's ideas, though for the most part
oddly put together."U And Dr. Hartley, who ex-
plains all the phenomena of the imagination by his
theory of vibrations and associations, says, that
dreams are nothing but the imaginations or reveries
of sleeping men, and that they are deducible from
• Wolfius, Psycho!. Empir. Sect. 123.
t Mem. de l'acad. de Berlin, tom. ii. p. 316.
t Arist. de insomn. cap 3.
,
i Que in vita usurpant homines, cogitant, curant,
vident queque agunt vigilantes, agitautque, ea cuique in
aomno accidunt. De Div.
U.Essay on Human Understanding, book, chap. i. sect 17.
Digi '"d by Google
,
BLUCIDATIONS OP TUB IIABVBLLOU8, 157
three causes-viz, the. impressions and ideas lately
received, and particularly those of the preceding
day, the state of the body, more especially of the
stomach and brain, and association.•
Macrobius mentions five sorts of dreams. 1st.
vision-2nd. a discovery of something between
sleeping and waking-3rd. a suggestion cast into our
&ncy, called by Cicero, visum ;-4th. an ordinary
drenm-and fifth, a divine apparition or revelation
in our sleep ; such as were the dreams of the
prophets, and of Joseph, as alao of the Eastern
Magi.
CAUSB OP DBBAMS.
Avicen makes the cause of dreams to be an
ultimate intelligence moving the moon in the midst
of that light with which the fancies of men are illu-
minated while they sleep. Aristotle refers the
cau..~ of them to common sense, but placed in the
fancy. Averroes, an Arabian physician, places it
in the imagination ; Democritus ascribes it to little
images, or representations, separated from the things
themselves ; Plato among the specific and concrete
1 notions of the soul ; Albertus to the superior in-
fluences, which centinually flow from the sky,
through many specific channels.
Some physicians attribute the cause of dreams to
~'llpours and humours, and the affections and cares
of persons predominant when awake; for, say they,
by reason of the abundance of vapours, which are
• Obs. on Man, vol. 1, sect. 5.
Digi '"d by Google
"· I
158 TBA.OIU.TVKOIA, OK
exhaled in consequence of immoderate feeding, the
brain is so staffed by it, that monsters and strange
chimera are formed, of which the most inordinate
eaters and drinkers furnish us with sufficient in·
stances. Some dreams, they assert, are governed
partly by the temperature of the body, and partly
by the humour which mostly abounds in it ; to which
may be added the apprehensions which have preceded
the day before ; and which are often remarked in.
dogs, and other animals, which bark and make a
noise in their sleep. Dreams, they observe, pro·
ceed from the humours and temperature of the
body ; we see the choleric dreams of fire, combata,
yellow colours, etc. the phlegmatic of water baths,
of sailing on the sea ; the melancholies of thick
fumes. deserts, fantasies, hideous faces, etc. they
that have the hinder part of their brain clogged.
with viscous humours, called by physicians Ephialtes
incubus, dream that they are suffocated. And
those who have the orifice of their stomach loaded
with malignant humours, are affiighted with strange
visions, by reason of those venemous vapours that
mount to the brain and distemper it.
POETICAL ILLUSTRATIONS 011' TBB BFI"BCTS OP TBB
IMAGINATION IN DREAMS.
Were we to enter more profoundly into the
mysterious phenomena of dreams, our present
lucubrations might become too a\lstruse ; and. after
all, no philosophical nor satisfactory account can be
given of them. Such of our readers therefore, as
Digi '"d by Google
'
JILUCIDATJO)IS OP TBK JU.JIVELLOUS ,
may wish for a more minute inquiry into the opi-
nions above stated, we beg leave to refer to the
respective authors whom we have already quoted.
The reader, who is fond to find amusement even in
a serious subject, from the scenes of nocturnal ima-
gination, will be glad, perhaps for a moment, to
be transported into the regions of poetic fancy.
And here we find that the fancy is not more sportive
in dreams, than are the poets in their descriptions
of her nocturnal vagaries. On the effects of the •
imagination in drea~. the following effusion, put
into the mouth of the volatile Mercurio, is an ad-
mirable illustration :-
0, then I aee, Queen Mab baa been with you.
She is the fancy'a midwift>, and abe comes
In shape no bigger than an agate atone
On the fore-finger of an Alderman,
Drawn with a team of little atomies,
Athwart men's noaea aa they lie asleep: ,..
Her waggon spokes made of long spinners' lega ;
The cover oftht! wings ofgrasshoppers ;
The traces of the smallest spider's web ;
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams;
Her whip of cricket's bone ; the lash of film ;
Her waggoner, a small grey coated gnat,
Not half so big as a round little worm,
Prickt from the lazy finger of a maid.
Her chariot is an empty hazel nut,
Made by the joiner squirril, old grub,
Time out of mind the fairies'·coachmilkers :
And in this stste she g.Uiops night by night,
Tbro'lovers' brains, and then they dream of Jove;
On courtiers' knees, that dream on curtsies strait ;
O'er lawyers' fingers, who strait dream on fees ;
Digi '"d by Google
160 THAUMATURGIA, OR
O'er ladies lips, \\'ho strait on kisses dream,
Which oft the angry Mab'with blisters plague,
Because their breath with sweetmeats tainted are.
Sometiwes abe gallops o'er a lawyer's nose,
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit 1
And sometimes comes she with a tithe-pig tail,
Tickling the parson as be lies asleep ;
Then dreams be of another benefice :
Sometimes she drivetb o'er a soldier's neck
And then be dreams of cutting foreign throats,
Of breaches, ambuscades, Spanish blades,
Of healtbs five fathom deep ; and then anon
Drums in his ears, at which he starts and wakt>s,
And being thus frighted, swears a pray'r or two,
And sleeps again.
Lucretius, and Petronius in his poem on the
vanity of dreams, had preceded our immortal
bard in a description of the effects of dreams on
different kinds of penons. Both the passages here
alluded to, only serve to shew the vast superiority
of Shakspeare's boundless genius: their sense is
thus admirably expressed by Stepney :
At dead of night imperial reason sleeps,
And faucy with her train, her revels keeps.
Then airy phantoms a mix'd scene display,
Of what we heard, or saw, or wish'd by day ;
1-'or memory those images retains
Which passion form'd, and still the strongest reigns.
Huntsmen renew the chase they lately run,
And generals fight again theirbattles won.
Spectres and fairies haunt the murderer'a dreams;
Grants and disgraces are the courtier's themes.
The miser spies a thief, or a new hoard ;
Digi i?ed
lI
BLUCIDATIONB OJ' TRK KARTBLLOUI, 16·1
The cit's a knirht ; the sycophant a lord.
Thus fancy's in the wild distraction lost,
With what we moat abhor, or covet most.
Honours and state before this phantom fall ;
For sleep, like death, ita image, equals alL
Chaucer in his tale of the Cock and Fox, has a
fine description, thusversified by Dryden :-
Dreams are but interludes which fancy makes :
When monarch reason sleeps, this mimic wakes ;
Compounds a medley of disjointed things,
A court of eoblers and a mob of kings :
Light fumes are merry, grosser fumes are sad :
Both are the rea110nable soul run mad ;
And many mon"
atrous forma in sleep we see,
That neither were, or are, or e'er can be.
Sometimes forgotten things, long east behind,
Rush forward in the brain, and come to mind.
The nurse's lege11ds are for truth received,
And the man dreams but what the boy believed,
Sometimes we but rehearse a former play,
The night restores our actions done by day ;
As bounds in sleep will open for their prey.
In short, the farce ofdreams ia of a piece
In chimeras all ; and more absurd or less.
Shakspeare again :-
$(
I talk of dreams,
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Begot of nothing but YaiD phantasy,
Which is as thin of substance as the air,
A.nd more ineonsistant Chan the wind.
Nor must Milton be omitted-
In the soul
Are many lesser faculties, that serve
M
Digi '"d by Google
162 THAUMATURGIA, OR
Reuon aa chief; among these Fancy nen
Her office holds; of all external things,
Which the five watchful senses represent,
She forms imaginations, airy shapes,
Which reaaon joining, or disjoining, frames,
A.nd all that we affirm, or what deny, or call
Our knowledge or opinion ; then retires
Into her private cell, when nature rests.
Oft in her absence mimic fancy wakes,
To imitate her; but miajoining shapes,
Wild works produces oft, but most in dream•
Jll matching words or deeds, long past or tale.
PRINCIPAL PHENOMENA IN DREAMING,
From these practical descriptions let us proceed
to take a view ofthe principal phenomena in dreaming.
And first, Mr. J.ocke's beautiful modes of which will
greatly illustrate the preceding observations•
• "When the mind," says Locke, "turns its view
inward upon itself, and contemplates its own actions,
thinlcing is the first that occurs. In it the mind
observes a great variety of modifications, and from
thence receives distinct ideas. Thus the perception,
which actually accompanies, and is annexed to any
impression on the body, made by an external object,
being distinct from all other modifications of thinking,
furnishes the mind with a distinct idea which we
call sensation; which is, .,as.... it were, the actual
entrance of an idea into the understanding by the
senses.
" The same idea, when it occurs again without the
operation of the like obje~t pn the external sensory,
ELUCIDATIONS OP TBB IIA&VBLLOUS. 163
is remembrance : if it be sought after by the mind,
and with pain and endeavour found, and brought
again in view, it is recollection : if it be held there
long under consideration, it is contemplation; when
llleas fioat in our mind without any refiexion or
regard of the undel'l!tanding, it is that which the
French call riverie ;* our language has scarce a
name for it. When the ideas that offer themselves
(for as I have obServed in another place, while we
are awake, there will always be a train of ideas
succeeding one another in our minds) are taken
notice of, and, as it were, registered in the memory,
it is «ttention ; when the mind, with great earnest-
ness, and of choice, fixes its view on any idea,
• considers it on all sides, and will not be called off
by the ordinary solicitations of other ideas, it is what
•
• There is a phenomenon in the mind, which, though it
happen to us while we are perfectly awake, yet approaches
the nearest to sleep of any I know. It is called the &verk,
or, as some term it, the brown ltudy, a sort of middle state
between waking and sleeping; in which, though our eyes
are open, our senses seem to be entirely shut up, and we are
quite insensible of every thing about us, yet we are all the
while engaged in a musjng indolence of thought, or a supine
and lolling kind of roving from orle fairy scene to another,
without any self-command; from which, if any noise or
accident rouse us, we wake as from a real dream, and an
often aa much at a loss to tell how our thoughts were em-
ployed, aa if we had wake4 from.the soundest sleep. This
is frequently called dreaming, sometimes ab1e11ee, a thing
often observed in lovers and people of a melancholy or
indeed speculative turn.-Fordgce'• DialolfWel CO'IICernirag
1ducati011, vol. II. p. 255.
~.
•
....
TBA.UMA.TOROIA, Oil
we call illtmtion or study. Sleep without dreallling
is rest from all these : and dreaming itself, is the
having of ideas (while the outward senses are stopped.
so that they receive not outward objects with their
usual quickness) iD the mind, not suggested by 8111
external objects, or known occasion, nor under any
choice or conduct of the understanding at all, and
whether that which we call ecatuy, be not dreaming
with the eyes open, I leave to be examined."
Dr. Beattie, in his " Dissertations moral and criti·
cal," has an ingenious essay on this subject, in which
he attempts to ascertain. not so much the tdJicient as
the final causes of the phenomenon, and to obviate
those superstitions in regard to it, which have some·
times troubled weak minds. He labours, with great
earnestness, to shew, that dreams may be of use in
the way of physical admonition : that persons, who
attend to them with this view~ may make important
discoveries"with regard to their health; that they may
be serviceable as the means of moral improvement ;
that, by attending to them, we may discern our p~ "'
dominant passions•. and receive. good hints for the
regulation of them ; that they may have been in·
tended by Providence to serve as an amusement to
the mental powers ; and that dreaming is not uni·
versal, because, probably, all constitutions do notre·
quire such intellectual amusement. In observations
of this kind, we may discover the ingenuity of fancy
and the sagacity of conjecture. We may find amuse·
ment in the arguments, but;ve look in vain for satis·
faction. Nature, certainly, does nothing in vain,
yet we are far from thinking, that man is able, in
BLUCIDATIONS OP THB MABVBLLOUS, 165
every case, to discover her intentions. Final causes,
perhaps, ought never to be the subject of human spe-
culation, but when they are plain and obvious. To
substitute vain conjectures, instead of the designs of
Providence, on subjects where those designs are
beyond our reach, serves only to furnish matter for
the cavils of the sceptical, and the sneers of the licen·
tious.
Among ·the many striking phenomena in our
dreams, it may be observed, that, while they last, the
memory seems to lie wholly torpid, and the under-
standing to be employed only about such objects as
are then presented, without comparing the present
with the past. When we sleep, we often converse
with a friend who is either absent or dead, without
remembering that the grave or the ocean is between
us. We float, like a feather, upon the wind ; for we
find ourselves this moment in England, and the next
in India, without reflecting that the laws of nature
are suspended, or inquiring how the scene could have
been 80 suddenly shifted before us. We are familiar
with prodigies ; we accommodate ourselves to every
event, however romantic ; and we not only reason,
but act upon principles, which are in the highest de-
gree absurd and extravagant. Our dreams, more:
over, are 80 far from being the effect of a voluntary
effort, that we neither know of what we shall dream,
or whether we shall dream at all.
But slE!ep is not the only time in which strange and
.unponnected objects inv8tve our ideas in confusion.
Besides the rtveries of the day, already spoken of, -we
have, in a moral view, our waking-dreatM, which
Digi '"d b,Coogle
•
•
166 TBAUMATUJlGIA, OK
are not less chimerical, and impoesible to be realized,
than the imaginations of the night.
Night Yisiona may befriend----
Our waking dreams are fatal. How I dreamt
Ofthinga impossible (could sleep oo more?)
Of joys perpetual in perpetual change !
Of stable pleasures on the tossing wave!
Eternal sunshine in the storms of life !
How richly were my noon-tide trances bung,
,' With gorgeous tapestries of pictur'd joys !
Till at deaths' toU,----
Starting I woke, and found myselfundone.
Many of the fabulous stories of ghosts or appari·
tions have originated unquestionably in dreams.
There are times of slumber when we are sensible of
being asleep. " When the thoughts are much trou-
bled," says Hobbes, " and when a person sleeps
without the circumstance of going to bed, or pulling
·off his clothes, as when he nods in his chair, it is
very difficult to distinguish a dream from a reality.
On the contrary, he that composes himself to sleep, in
case of any uncouth or absurd fancy, easily suspects
it to have been a dream.''• On this principle, Hobbes
has ingvniously accounted for the spectre which is
said to have appeared to Brutus ; and the well-known
story told by Clarendon, of the apparition of the duke
of Buckingham's father, will admit of a similar solu·
tion. There was no man at that time in the king·
dom so much the topic of conversation as the duke ;
and, from the corruptness of his character, he was
• Leviathan, part. 1. c. 1.
I
l
>
BLUCIDA.TIONS OJ' THB MA.B.V.KLLOUS. 167
very likely to fall a sacrifice to the corruptness of the
times. Sir George Villiers is said to have appeared
to the man at midnight-there is therefore the great-
est probability that the man .was asleep ; and the
dream affrighting him, made a strong impreasion,
and was likely to be repeated.
History furnishes us with numerous instances of a
forecast having been communicated through the me-
dium of dreams, some of which are so extraordinary
as almost to shake our belief that the hand of Provi-
dence is not sometimes evident through their instru-
mentality. Cicero, in his first book on Divination, tells
118, that Heraclides, a clever man, and who had been
a disciple of Plato, writes that the mother of Phalaris
saw in a dream the statues of the gods which she had
consecrated in the house of her son ; and among
other things, it appeared to her, that from a cup
which Mercury held in his hand, he had spilled some
blood from it, and that the blood had scarcely touched
the ground, than rising up in large bubbles it filled
the whole house. This dream of the mother was
afterwards but too truly verified in the cruelty of the
son. Cyrus dreamt that seeing the sun at his feet,
he made three different unsuccessful attempts to lay
his hand upon it, at each of which it evaded him.
The Persian Magi who interpreted this dream told
him that these.three attempts to seize the sun signified
that he would reign thirty years. This prediction
was verified : he died at the age of seventy, having
~ to reign when he was forty years old.
" There is doubtless," says Cicero, " something
even among barbarians which marks that they ~~sess
168 TBAUJU.TUB.GIA, OR.
the gift of presentiment and divination. The Indian
Calanus mounting the flaming faggot on which he was
about to be burnt ; exclaimed • 0 what a fine exit from
life, when my body, like that of Hercules, aball be
coi18UDled by the fire, my spirit will freely enjoy the
light.' And Alexander having. asked if he had anything
to say, he replied, " Yes, I shall soon see yon," which
happened as he foretold, Alexander having died a few
days afterwards at Babylon. Xenophon, an ardent dia-
ciple of Socrates. relates that in the war which be made
in favour of young Cyrus, he had some dreams which
were followed by the most miraculous events. Shall
we say that Xenophon does not speak truth, or is too
extravagant ? What ! so great a personage, and 80
divine a spirit as Aristotle, can he be deceived ? Or
does he wish to deceive others, when he tells us of
Eudemus of Cyprus, one of his friend!, wishing to go
into Macedonia, paSBed by Pheres, a celebrated town
in Thessaly, which at that time was under the domi-
nion of the tyrant Alexander ; and that having fallen
very sick, he saw in a dream a very handsome young
man, who told him that he would cure him, and that
the tyrant Alexander would shortly die, but as to
himself, he would retum home at the end of five
years. Aristotle remarks that the two firet predic-
tions were, indeed, soon accomplished ; that Eudemus
recovered, and that the tyrant was killed by his wife's
brothers ; but that at the expiration of five years, the
time at which it was .hoped Eudemus, according to
the dream, was to return to Sicily, his natiTe country,
news were received that he had been killed in a com-
bat near Syracuse ; which gave rise to another inter-
----
BLUCIDATIONS OF TBB MARVELLOUS. 169
pretation of the dream, namely, that, when the spi·
rit or soul of Eudemus left his body, it went thence
straight to his own house.-A cup of massy gold
having been stolen from the temple of Hercules, this
god appeared in a•dream to Sophocles three consecu•
tive times, and pointed out the thief to him; who
was put to the torture, confessed the delinquency,
and gave up the cup. The temple afterwards re-
ceived the name of Hercules Indicator.
An endless vari~}' of similar instances, both from
ancient and modern history, might be ad...ced of the
singularity of dreams, as well as their instrumentality
in revealing secrets which, without such agency, had
lain for ever in oblivion ; these, however, are sufficient
for our purpose here ; and the occurrence of one of a
very recent date, connected with the discovery of the
body of the murdered Maria Martin, in the red barn,
ia Btill fresh in the recollection of our readers. That
thereis a ridiculous infatuation attached by some people
to dreams, which have no·meaning, and which are the •
otfsprings of the day's thoughts, even among persons
whose education should inform them better, particu-
larly among the fair sex, cannot be denied; indeed, a
conversation seldom passes among them, but some
inconsistent dream or other, form a leading feature
of their goBBip ; and doubtle88 is with them an hy-
aterieal symptom.
Sometimes in our sleeping dreams, we imagine
ourselves involved in inextricable woe, and enjoy at
waking, the ecstasy of a deliverance from it. " And
such a deliverance," says Dr. Beattie, " will everygood
~-meet with at last, when he is taken away from
"·
Digi '"d by G_;ogle
-
.'·
170 THAUMATURGIA, OR
the evils of life, and awakes in the regions ofeverlast-
ing light and ~ce ;looking back upon the world and
ita troubles, with a surprise and satisfaction similar in
kind (though far higher in degree) to that which we
now feel, when we escape from~ terrifying dream,
and open our eyes to the sweet serenity of a. summer
morning." Sometimes, in our dreaiDS, we imagine
scenes of pure and unutterable joy ; and how
much do we regret at waking, that the heavenly vi-
sion is no more ! But what must the raptures of the
good man be, when he enters the regions of immor-
tality, and beholds the radiant fields of pemianent
delight ! The idea of such a happy death, such a
sweet transition, from the dreams of earth to the
realities of heaven, is thus beautifully described by
Dryden, in his poem entitled Eleonora :
" She passed serenely, with a single breath ;
This moment perfect health, the next was death ;
One sigh did her eternal bliss assure ;
So little penance needs when souls are pure.
As gentle dreams our waking thoughts pursue ;
.or, one dream past, we slide into a new ;
So close tbey follow and such wild order keep,
We think ourselves awake and are asleep;
So softly death succeeded life in her:
She did but dream of heaven and she was there.
DEFINITION OF DREAMS.
Dreams are vagaries of the imagination. and
in most instances proceed from external sensations.
They take place only when our sleep is unsound,
•
·1!
'BLUCIDATIONB OP THB MARVBLLOUB, 171
in which case the brain and nervous system are
capable of performing certain motions. We seldom
dream during the first hours of sleep ; perhaps
because the nervous fluid is then· too much exhaust-
ed ; but dreams mostly occur towards the morn-
ing, when this fluid has been, in some measure,
restored.
Every thing capable of interruptingthe tranquillity
of mind and body, may produce dreams; such are
the various kinds of grief and sorrow, exertions of
the mind, affections and passions, crude and un-
digested food, a hard and inconvenient posture of
the body. Those ideas which have lately occupied
our minds or made a lively impression upon us,
generally constitute the principal subject of a dream,
1111d more or less employ our imagination, when we
are asleep.
Animals arelikewise apt to dream, though seldom;
and even men living temperately, and enjoying a
perfect state of health, are seldom disturbed with
this play ofthe fancy. And, indeed, there are examples
of lively and spirited persons who never dream at
all. The great physiologist Haller considers dream-
ing as a symptom of disease, or as a stimulating
cause, by which the perfect tranquillity of the senso-
rium is interrupted. Hence, that sleep is the
most refreshing, which is undisturbed by dreams,
or, at least, when we have the distinct recollection
ofthem. Most of'bnr dreams are then nothingmore
than sports of the fancy, and derive their origin
cbie:fly from external impressions ; almost every
thing we see and hear, when awake, leads our ima-
172 THAUMATU&GIA, 0&
gination to collateral notions or representations,
which, in a manner, spontaneously, and without the
least effort, associate with external sensations. The
place where a person whom we love formerly resided,
a dress similar to that which we have seen her wear,
or the objects that employed her attention, no eooner
catch our eye, than she immediately occupies our mind.
And, though these images associating with external
sensations, do not arrive at complete consciousness
within the power of imagination, yet even in their
latent state they may become very strong and per-
manent.
Cicero furnishes us with a story of two Arcadians,
who, travelling together, arrived at Megara, a
city of Greece, between Athens and Corinth, where
one of them lodged in a friend's house, and the
other at an inn. After supper, the person who
lodged at the private house went to bed, and falling
asleep, dreamed that his friend at the inn appeared
to him and begged his assistance, because the inn-
keeper was going to kill him. The man immediately
got out of bed much frightened at the dream ; but
recovering himself, and falling asleep again, his
friend appeared to him a second time, and desired
that, as he would not assist him in time, he would
take care at least not to let his death go unpunished ;
that the innkeeper having murdered him had thrown
his body into a cart and covered it with dung ; he
.• therefore begged that be would De at the city gate.
in. the rooming, before the cart was out; struck
with this new dream, be went early to the gate, saw
the cart, and asked the driver what was in it ; the
ELUCIDATIO!';S OF TBB MARVBLLOUS. 173
driver immediately fled, the dead body was taken
out of the cart, and the innkeeper apprehended and
executed.
It is very frequently observed, that in a dream a
seriesofrepresentations is suddenly interrupted, and
another series of a very different kind occupies its
place. This happens as soon as an idea associates
itself; which, from whatever cause, is more interest-
ing than that immediately preceding. The last then
becomes the prevailing one, and determines the
'~. association. Yet, by this too, the imagination is
r frequently reconducted to the former series. The
interruption in the course of the preceding occur-
rences is remarked, and the power of abstracting
similarities is in search ofthe cause of this irregula-
rity. Hence, in such cases, there usaally happens
some unfortunate event or other, which occasions
tbe interruption of the story. The representing
power may again suddenly conduct us to another
·aeries of ideas, and thus the imagination may be led
by the subreasoning power before defined, from one
'ICene to another. Of this kind, for instance, is
the following remarkable dream, as related and
explained in the works of professor Maas of Halle :
. " I dreamed once," says he " that the Pope visited
He commanded me to open my desk, and
fully examined all the papers it contained.
· e he was thus employed, a very sparkling
ond fell out of his triple crown into my desk, of
"ch, however, neither of us took anfbotice. As
~ as the Pope had withdrawn, I retired to bed,
was soon obliged to rise, on account of a thick
l~ ' :.~ '
~···
Digi '"d by Google
174 TBAUII.o\TURGJA, OR
smoke, the cause of which I had yet to learn.
Upon examination I discovered, that the diamond
had set fire to the papers in my desk, and burnt them
to ashes."
On account of the peculiar circumstances by which
this dream was occasioned, it deserves the following
short analysis. " On the preceding evening,"
says professor Maas, " I was visited by a friend
with whom I had a lively conversation, upon Joseph
lind's suppression of monasteries and convents. With
this idea, though I did not become conscious of it in
my dream; was associated the visit which the Pope
publicly paid the Emperor Joseph at Vienna, in
consequence of the measures taken against the clergy ;
and with this again was combined, however faintly, the
representation of the visit, which had been paid me
by my friend. These two events were, by the
subreasoning faculty, compounded into one, accord-
ing to the established rule-that things which agree
in their parts, also correspond as to the whole ;-
hence the Pope's visit, was changed into a visit
made to me. The subreasoning faculty then, in
order to account for this extraordinary _visit, fixed
upon that which was the most important object
in my room, namely, the desk, or rather the pa-pet:t!.
contained in it. That a diamond fell out of the
triple crown was a collateral association. which
was owing merely to the representation of the desk.
Some days before when opening the desk,. I had ·
broken the gJass of my watch, wh~ch I held in my I
hahd, and the fragments fell among the papers. ·
Hence no farther attention was paid to the diamond. I
... *•• •
Digi '"d by Gooc le ,4
..... ·--. -~----~
EL11CIDATION8 OJ' THE MARVELLOUS. 175
being a representation of a collateral series of things.
But afterwards the representation of the sparkling
stones was again excited, and became the prevailing
idea; hence it determined the succeeding associa-
tion. On account of its similarity, it excited, the
representation of fire, with which it was confounded ;
hence arose fire and smoke.-But, in the event,
the writings only were bUI'Dt, not the desk itself;
to which, being of comparatively less value, the
attention was not at all directed." It is farther
observable, that there are in the human mind certain
obscure representations, and that it is necessary to
btl convinced of .the reality of these images, if we
are desirous of perceiving the connexion, which
subsists among the operations of the imagination.
Of the numerous phenomena, founded on obscure
ideas, and which consequently prove their existence,
we shall only remark the following. It is a well
known fact, that many dreams originate in the im-
pressions ~nade in the body .during sleep ; and they
consist of analogous images or such as are associated
with sensations that would arise from these impres-
sions, during a waking state. Hence, for instance,
if our legs are placed in a perpendicular posture, we
are often terrified by a dream that implies the im-
minent danger of falling from a steep rock or preci-
pice. The mind must represent to itself these exter-
nal impressions .i!lla lively manner, otherwise no
ideal picture could b8 thus excited ; but, as we do
.not become at all conscious of them, they are but
6Untly and obscurely represented• .
Jf we make a resolution to rise earlier in the
•
Digi '"d by Google
J76 THAUMATVRGIA, 0:&
morning than usual; and if we impress the deter-
mination on our mind, immediately before going to
rest, we are almost certain to succeed. Now it is
self-evident that this success cannot be ascn'bed
to the efforts of the body, but altogether to the mind,
which probably, during sleep perceives and computes
the duration of time, 80 that it makes an impression
on the body, which enables us to awake at an ap-
pointed hour. Yet all this takes place, without
our consciousness, and the reesprentations remain
obscure. Many productions of art are 80 complicated,
that a variety of simple conceptions. are requisite to
lay the foundation of them ; yet the artist is almost
entirely unconscious of these individual notions.
Thus a person performs a piece of music, without
being obliged to reflect, in a conscious manner, on the
signification ?f the notes, their value, and the order
of the fingers he must observe ; nay even without
clearly distinguishing the strings of the harp, or
the keys of the harpsichord. We cannot attribute
this to the mechanism of the body, wlllch might
gradually accustom itself to the accurate placing of
the fingers. This could be applied only where we
place a piece of m~ic, frequently practised ; but it is
totally inapplicable to a new piece, which is played
by the professor with equal facility, though he ha1;;1
never seen it before. In the latter case there must
arise, necessarily, an ideal representation, or an ·act
of judgment, previous to every motion of the
finger.
These arguments, we trust, are sufficient, to-evince ··
the occurrence of these obscure notions and repre _
•
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVKLLOUS. 177
sentations, from which all our dreams originate.
Before, however, we close this subject, we shall
relate the following extraordinary dream of the
celebrated Galileo, who at a very advanced age had
lost his sight. In one of his walks over a beautiful
plain, conducted by his pupil TfOicelli, the venerable -.?n; .:d'.
sage related the following dream to him. " Once,"
said he, " my eyes permitted me to enjoy the charms
of these fields. But now, since their light is extin-
guished, these pleasures are lost to me for ever.
Heaven justly inflicts the punishment which was
predicted to me many years ago. When in prison,
and impatiently languishing for liberty, I began to
be discontented with the ways ofProvidence ; Coper-
nicus appeared to me in a dream ; his celestial spirit
conducted me over luminous stars, and, in a threaten-
ing voice, reprehended me for having murmured
against him, at whose fiat all these worlds had pro,
ceeded from nothing. "A time shall come (said he)
when thine eyes shall refuse to assist thee in con-
templating these wonders."
We shall now proceed to notice the subject of
dreams in another point of view-that is, as being
employed as a medium of divination in the cur.e
of diseases, in which the fancies of the brain
appear, in reality, to as little advantage as they do
with reference to any other considerations in which
I!UCb pretended omens exist.-
N
Digi '"d by Google
178 TBAUMATU&GIA, OR
CHAPTER XI.
ON INCUBATION, 011. THB ART OJ' HEALING BY
VISIONARY DIVINATION.
MBDJCINB unquestionably ranks among the most
ancient of all human sciences. In the infant state of •
society, when simplicity of manners characterised
the pursuits of mankind, medical assistance was
little wanted ; but when the nature of man degene-
rated, and vice and luxury corrupted his habits of
innocence and temperance, d~eases sprung up which
those aids alone could check or eradicate. The
knowledge of them at first could not fail to be
empirical and precarious. The sick were placed
in the high ways, that travellers and passers by
might assist them with their counsel ; and at length
the priesthood appropriated this privilege exclu-
sively to themselves.
It was not merely the sacerdotal dignity which
rendered them objects of awe and reverence to the
illiterate multitude ; the priests were regarded as the
depositaries of science and learning ; and proved
themselves as skilful as they were successful, in
cementing their influence by those arts which were
Digi '"d by Google
_
.....
:KLUCIDA'l'IONS OF 'CHK MARVELLOUS, 17 9
best calculated to inflame the prejudices of the vulgar
in thrir favour.
It is the work of ages to wean men and nations
from popular illusions, and the deep-rooted opiniona
transmitted from sire to son : it cannot therefore
surprise us, that even when the intellectual energy of
Greece was signalizing itself by efforts which have
commanded the admiration of after ages, it should
still remain a popular dogma in medicine " that
persoDS labouring under bodily infirmity, might be
thrown into a state of charmed torpor, in which,
though destitute of any previous medical knowledge,
they would be enabled to ascertain the nature of their
t malady, as well as of the diseases of others, and
devise the means of their cure." Upon this dogma
was founded the mystery of incubations, or the ar:t
of healing by visionary divination.
It is not our object here to discuss whether a
man can be capable of divination : such a power,.
however, was assigned to him, not only by the
vulgar, but by the greater number of the philoso-
phical sects of antiquity ; and it does appear to
savour a little of temerity, tnat Epicurus and the
cynics should have ventured to reject a belief so
universally and strenuously maintained, and resting
on an infinity of traditions and accounts of prophets,
in whom Greece had abounded from her earliest
times, and of whose divine gift of prophecy the
firmest conviction was currently entertained. £s-
chylus, Plutarch, Apuleius, and other Greek authors,
I bear ample testimony of this persuasion, and tell us
ithat by uncommon and irregular motions of the body
I N 2
Digi '"d by Google
ISll THAUIIATURGIA, OR
intoxicating vapours, or certain holy ejaculations,
men might be thrown into an enchanted trance ; in
which, being in a state between sleeping and waking,
they were unsuaceptible of external impressions and
obtaining a glimpse 9f futurity, were gifted with the
power of prophecy. : Here their allusion, however,
only concerns the celebrated divinations of the
Pythia.* We must therefore, probe somewhat
deeper, in order to illustrate that !'pecies of divination
which was the result of dreams, and a source of
divination on the nature of diseases and theirremedies.
This kind of superstition was in no less acceptation
than the former among the ancients, whose temples
were constantly crowded with the sick, and rever- e
berated with their supplications for divinatory dreams, f
which were regarded as an immediate gift from the
gods. Inde£-d, the celestial origin of dreams was
universally admitted by the nations of antiquity,
and thence also their efficacy as oracles. Nothing
could be more natural than such an idea. From
the crude and imperfect notions which long pre-
vailed with respect to the soul, it was scarcely
possible for them to a.."Cribe the impressions, which
their memory retained of the creation of their fancy
• The Priestess of Apollo, by whom he delivered oracles.
She was called Pythia from the god himself, who was
styled Apollo Pythius, from his slaying the serpent·Python.
The Priestess was to be a pure virgin. She sat on the
covercle or lid of a brazen vessel, mounted on a tripod,
and thence, after a violent enthusiasm, she delivert>d his
oracles ; i. e. she rehearsed a few ambiguous and obscure
Yerses, which were taken for oracles. •
Digi '"d by Google
J . ....
BLUCIDATIONS OF 1RB MARVBLLO'US. 18 J
during their slumbers, to the instrumentality of their
own conceits ; they could not fail therefore to impute
them to the interposition of some foreign agent, and to
whom more naturally could they ref~r them than to
a divinity ? When awake, they imagined themselves
always attended by the gods in person, and ascribed
every thought, and resolved every appearance or
accident, which deviated from the common course of
nature, to the immediate influence of a superintend-
ing deity. It was under such impressions that I!O
many nations originally rested their belief in divina-
tory dreams. The records of antiquity therefore
abound in instances (for the greater part of an early
• date) where the actions of men have been the result
of a dream, whose conceit was entirely at variance
with the real state of their affairs. It was not long
before the diversity ofdreams awakened their atten-
tion: some were connected and simple, others were
obscure, and made up of curious fancies, though
not incapable of being resolved by the windings and
turnings of allegory.
It was no unnatural transition from the received
belief in dreams, to the idea that they might become
the medium of seeking instruction from the gods :
hence the institution of oracles, whose responses
were given in dreams ; and the addition of sleeping
chambers to many temples, such as those in Epidaurus
and at Oropos. Here it wal!, that after pious cere-
monies and prayers, .men laid themselves down in
expectation of dreams ; when the expectation was
realized, though the dream proved ever so confused
or intricate, the dreamer always succeeded in recon-
182 TRAUMATURGIA, Oil
ciling it to his circumstances : hito own belief and
priestly wiles, readily effected the solution. The
conceit of dreams, according to the votary's wishes,
was so powerfully promoted by the preparatory
initiation he had undergone, that it would have
been somewhat extraordinary had he been altogether
disappointed. He was generally anxious to in-
crease the fame of his divinity by his dream,
and poBBeBBed a high veneration 11nd deep im-
pression of the miracles which that divinity had
wrought. With these predispositions he resorted to
the temple. where he had a whole day before him
to ponder on his malady, and on every sort of
remedy that might have been suggested to him ; how '
natural was it, therefore, for his busy imagination
to fix, in his sleep, upon one particular remedy
more forcibly than upon another ? Add to this, the
solenin lonely hour of night was the appointed hour
for his sleep, which was preceded by prayer and
other inspiring ceremonies, that would naturally
elevate his devotion to the highest pitch. He had
also previously perambulated the temple, and with a
full heart surveyed the offerings of thotoe whose sick-
ness had departed from them.
If all these preparations were unavailing, the
officiants of the temple had still means in reserve,
by which the credulous should be thrown into that
bodily state which was indispensable to the divinatory
sleep : of these, succeeding instances will be here-
after produced. In those days, there were however,
some men from whom the somniferous faculty was
withheld : they were, therefore, admonished to repeat
Digi '"d by Goo2.k •
. ·•itius a
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVBLLOU8. J83
their prayers and oblations, in order to win the
divinity's favour: and the ultimate and customary
resort was, if success did not crown his perseverance,
to pronounce it a token, that such patients were an
eyesore to the divinity.
From this divinatory sleep, arose the vulgar expres-
sions inGreecetvrcotf'«tTOat, and tvrco<f'1JIT<<;.* The latin
terms are incubare and incubatio; an exact translation
of the Greek words. It appears, therefore, that the
Romans and Greeks were equally acquainted with the
institution ; though we find but very little mention
made of it by the Latin writers, yet this is no argu-
ment against its prevalence among the Romans, as
we are left with as scanty accounts of many other
superstitions which were in vogue amongst them.
It is highly probable that it was not by any means 80
popular in Rome as in Greece ; and the cause of this
may, perhaps, be found in the reflecting disposition
and sober character of the haughty Roman, to which
the light and volatile temperament of the Grecian,
formed 80 striking a contrast.
That incubation was a ready means of diving into
the future, needs no demonstration. Although its
practice was chiefly resorted to in cases where medi-
cal aid was desired, it was still made use of in every
other case, in which the ancient oracles were con•
suited. Whether it arose in Greece, or migrated
• These words art> but ill explained by the best Greek
Lexicographers. Servius ad Virg. lEn. vii. 88, says :
Tncubare dicuntur • proprie hie, qui dormiu"t accipimda
ruponsa. Tertullian de Anima, C. 49, thence calls them
Inq.batorufanorum.
i
•
•••. 'l'iit..o. ~- Digi '"d by Google
)84 THAUllfATURGIA, OR
thither from the East, is a point with which the an·
cients have left us unacquainted, though they advert to
its prevalence amongst those who were called barba·
rians. Strabo has several instances of it, and particu·
larly mentions a place in the Caspian sea, where such
an oracle existed;* he also relates, in his celebrated
account of Moses, that this law-giver laid it down, in
common with the priests of Esculapius, that to those
who led a chaste and virtuous life the deity would
vouchsafe prophetical visions in his sanctuary ; but to
those who were of idle and impure habits, they would
be denied.t
Pomponius Mela even mentions a savage nation, in
the interior of Africa, who laid themselves down to
sleep on the grave-stones of their ancestors, and
looked upon the dreams they had on those spots as
oracles from the dead.t We shall see, hereafter,
that this superstition was equally indigenous among
the Egyptians. Although it be doubtful whether the
Greeks owed this species of divination to their own
invention or not, its existence may at least be traced
as far as the earliest ages of their history ; notwith·
standing no positive mention of it has been made
either by Homer or the authors following him.
The oracular power of dreams, and the sanctuaries
where they are supposed to be dispersed, have been
diffusely treated of in the compilations of Van Dale and
otherlearned writers. These species of oracles were in
• Lib. XI. p. 108. Paris, fol. 1620.
t Ibid. lib. XVL p. 761.
: De situ orbis. lib. I. cap. I.
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS, 185
high estimation, even in the most enlightened and
ftourishing periods of Greece ; it is somewhat singu-
lar, however, that no people cherished them more
devoutly than the Spartans, who depended altogether
upon oracles in their weightiest affairs of state. Of
all the civilized nationa of Greece, Sparta always
approved herself the most superstitious ; her advance-
ment was rather the effect of her policy, than of
any stimulus given to her civilization by science.
This consideration will enable us to. account for the
powerful influence which, even in the latest stages of
Lacedemonian story, attached to the responses of
Passipha!, a local goddess of Thalame, but little
known beyond the confines of Laconia. The extent
oftheir influence is particularly evident in the history
of Agis and Cleomenes.*
The greater part of these somnambulistic oracles
were ascribed to persons who had distinguished
themselves as great dreamen when on earth·. In old
times there was a description of prophets who pre-
tended to prepare themselves for the foreboding of
futnre events through the medium of sacred dreams.
They were classed under the app~llation of Ovtcpo1rA.oc,
to which rank the most celebrated Vates of the heroic
age belonged. In this way it was that a sacred spot
was dedicated to Calchus, whence he gave his res·
• Plutarch apud Agis et Cleomen. Cicero (de Div. 1.
c. 48) probably alludes to this orsclt.>,. when be says, that the
Ephori of Sparta were accustomed to sleep in the temple of
Pasiphe on state emergencies. Therl' was a similar oracle
in the neighbourhood of Thalame, not f11r from 1Etylum,
ascred to Ino.
. l
Digi '"d by Google
1116 THAUIIATURGIA, OR
ponses in dreams after his decease : this spot lay in
Daunia, on the coast of the Adriatic. The suppli-
cant's offices began with the offering up of a ram, on
whose skin he laid himself down, and in this situa-
tion, receh·ed the instruction he sought for.• Am-
pbilocus, a contemporary sootheayer, who accom-
panied the Epigoni in the first Theban war, had a
similar oracle at Mallos, in Cilicia, which Pausanias
asserts, even at the close of the second century. to
have been the most credible of his age ; it is also
mentioned by Dion Cassius, in his history of Commo-
dus.t
The most famous, however, of this class of oracles,
Wl\8 that of Amphiaraus, the father of Amphilocus,
which was one of the five principal oracles of Greece;
he had signalized himself as a sapient eoothsayer in
the first Theban war; and his oracle was situated at
Oropos, on the borders of Bretia and Attica. Of all
others this deserves our most particular attention, as
it was resorted to more frequently in cases of infir-
mity and disease, than in any other circumstances.
His responses were always delivered in dreams, in
whose interpretation, as he was the first to possess
that faculty. Pausanias says he received divine
honours. Those who repaired to Amphiaraus's ora-
cle to supplicate his aid, laid themselves do~ in the ;
manner we have just related, after several preparatory
lustrations and sacrifices, on the "kin of a ram slain
" Strabo, lib. VI. p. 284.
t Pauaanias, 1, 35.
JILUCIDATIOS8 OF THB MAR'"ELLOUB. 18;"
in honour of the god. and awaited the dreams, which
were to unfold the means of their different cures.
Lustrations and ~sacrifices were not, however, the
only preparatives for inducing the vieionary disposi-
tion. The priests subjected the patients to various
others, which Philo!!!tratus affirms* to have been very
instrumental towards rendering the sleeper's mind
·clearand uncllluded. Part of these preparatives con-
sisted in one day's abstinence from eating, and three,
nay, even in some cases, fifteen days' abstinence
from wine, the common beverage of the Greek!.'.
This was the practice also with other oracles ; nor
were the priests in the meantime insensible to their
own interests on these occasions ; for those who were ·
cured by Amphiaraus's revelations were permitted to
bathe in the sacred waters of a fountain, into which
they were enjoined to cast pieces of gold and silver,
which were destined, most probably, to sweeten the
l'aboars of his offi.ciants,
The oracles, whose intervention was principally or
altogether sought for the healing of the sick by means
of divination founded on dreams, were scattered over
Greece, Italy, ·Egypt, and other countries. As
regards those of Egypt, it may be remarked, that
although many of the Egyptians believed there
were thirty-six demons, or aerial deities, each of
whom had the care of a certain portion of the human
frame, and when that portion was diseased, would
heal it on the patient's earnest prayer, yet a variety of
their oracles, such as those of Serapis, Isis, and
" De vita Apoll. Tbyan. 11. 37.
188 TliAUMATURGIA, OR
Phthas, the Hephaestos of the Greeks, appertained~to
the class, which is the present object of onr inquiry.
The oracle Serapis was situated near Canopus ; it
was visited with the highest veneration by the
wealthiest and most illustrious Egyptians, and con-
tained ample records of miraculous cures which that
god had performed on sleepers.* Isis, it is said,
effected similar cures in her lifetime, whence it
became her office, in her after .state of deification,
to reveal in dreams the most efficacious remedies to
the sick, Indeed the hewing powers of this goddess
were such, that, as we are told by Diodorus,t the
remedies she prescribed ~ver failed of their effect,
and that convalescents were daily seen returning from
her temple, many of whorp had been abandoned as
incurable by the physicians: -
The third oracle of theifick was consecrated to
Phthas, and lay near Mel.phis, but it is seldom
·mentioned by the ancienta.t
In Italy there existed two oracles, whose responses
were imparted in dreams, before the worship of
Esculapius was introduced from Greece. One of
them only belongs to this place, that of the physician
Podalirus, in Daunia,§ which is mentioned by
" Strabo, lib. xvii. p. 801. Anian. E:tped. Alex.
vii. 6.
t In Egypt lib. 1, 25.
! Galen de comp. Med. p. Gen v. 2.
§ Podalirius and Machaon, the two sons of Esculapiua.
The state of medicine at the time of the Trojan war was very
imperfect, as we lind exemplified by these two acting as
surgeons general to the Grecian army. Their simple prRCtice
Digi '"d by Google
.·-~-- ...J
ELUCIDATIONS OP TH.S JoiARVKLLOUS. I69
Lycophron.* Subsequently it is well known incuba-
tion was practised after the Grecian fonn in the
Roman temple of £~apius on the Insula Ti-
berinaJ
Thil' descripti~n of oracles abounded throughout
Greece : the most memorable of which was that on
the Asiatic coast, between Trattis and Nyssa, which
is more particularly described by Strabo than any
other. Not far from the town of Nyssa, says be,
there is a place called Charaka, where we find
agrove and temple sacred to Pluto and Proserpine,
consisted chiefly in extracting darts or arrows, in staunching
blood by some infusion of bitter herbs, and sometimes they
added charms or incantations ; which seemed to be a poetical
way of hinting, that frequently wounds were healed or diseaaes
cured in a manner unaccountable by anyknown properties they
could discover either in the eft'ects of their rude remedies,
or in the then known powers of the human body to relieve
itself, In Homer's deacription of the wound which Ulysses,
when young, received in his thigh from the tusk of an en.
l'lged wild boar, the infusion of blood was stopped by
divine incantations and divinetongs, and some sort of b11nd~
age which must have acted by pressure. If any virtue could
have acted as a charm, the very verse that describes the
wound might have as good a tight to such a claim as any
other; but, in what manner the surgeons of ancient Greece,
before the discovery of the circulation of the blood, might
apply bandages for the purposes here mentioned, is not easily
explained; though doubtless these bandages must have acted
like a tourniquet, which is now the most elf'ectual remedy
for compressing a wounded artery, and thereby stopping an
hemorrhage.
• Alexand. JQ.50.
t Suet. ClaW c. 28.
Digi '"d by Google
190 THAUMATURGU., OR
and close to the grove a subterraneons cave, of a
moat extraordinary nature. It is related of it, that
diseased persons, who have faith in the remedies pre-
dicted by those deities, are accustomed to resort to it
and pass some time with experienced priests: who
reside near the cave. These priests lay themselves
down to sleep in the cave, and afterwards order such
medicine as have been revealed to them there, to
be furnished to their patients in the temple. . They
frequently conduct the sick themselves into the cave,
where they remain for several days together, with-
out touching a mol'!!el of food ; nor are the profane
withheld from a participation in the divinatory sleep,
though this is not permitted otherwise than under
the controul, and with the sacred sanction, of the
priests. There is, however, nothing more surprising
about this place than that it is esteemed nozious and
fatal to the healthy.• This last remark of our geo-
grapher, proves how jealous the priestly physicians
were of their medical monopoly, and how fearful
lest the saner part of mankind .should detect and
expose the pretended virtues of their medical
sanctuary.
We have hitherto mentioned the name of .IEscula-
pius but casually, though there was no god of anti-
quity more celebrated for curing every species of
malady by the incubatory process. He was particu-
larly designated by the Greeks as " the sender of
dreams," Ov€1po7rOf17rOV; nor could any other deity
boast of so great a number of those oracles. The
" Strabo. lib. xiii. Pausan•• ii.
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCID.\TIONS OJ' THB M.\RVBLLOUS. Ill I
most distinguished of these was the oracle of Epi·
daurus, in the Argivian territory ; from which spot
his worship extended over a great proportion of the
old world ;-hither, as being the place of his birth
and the site of his richest temple, crowds of sick
persons constantly repaired in quest of dreams. The
success attending them was diligently set forth on
every wall of the temple ; where the talnllte votivtr
recorded the names of those who had been healed,
the nature of their maladies, and the cure which the
god prescribed. Similar circumstances are related
ofhis Temple at Tricc;e, in Thessaly, where Escula-
pius was held in great veneration at a very early
period ; there appears also to have been another such
temple either at or near Athens,* where we must
look for the scene of the ridiculous cure which Aris-
tophanes makes lEsculapius to perform on the blind
god of riches. Though there is undoubtedly a rich
vein of the burlesque in the Plutus of the Grecian
dramatist, yet we may gather much concerning our
present subject from the scene in which the slave,
who had attended Plutus il\•the Temple, relates the
whole process of his master's wife. Here also the
night was the chosen period of incubation. Before
the signal for sleep was given, the officiants of the
temple extinguished all the lights in the sick men's
chamber; thus involving them in a solemn stillness
and obscurity highly favourable to the work in hand,
but in a particular manner to the subterfuge of the
• Scbolia ad Plut. v. 621.
Digi '"d by Google
l
192 THAUIUTURGU, OR
priests, who enacted the nocturoal apparition of
£sculapius to his sick client.
I
This passage in Plutua is certainly the earliest
circumstantial relation we poaaeaa of the practice of
this species of incubation.* The license permitted to
Grecian comedy was such as to authorise the ridicule
and contempt of the most popular deities ; we are
not, therefore to conclude from the scenes that there
were many unbelievers, or that this ancient system
of cure had sunk into disrepute : for the history of
our comedian's great contemporary, Hippocrates.
informs us, that at this very thne the temple of
JEeculapius at Cos abounded in tablets, on which the
sick attested the remedies that had been revealed to
them during incubation, and that he himself was
highly indebted to them for much of his medical ,
knowledge.
Were it not authenticated by the most undeniable
testimonies, it would appear incredible that the im·
postures of the disciples of £sculapius, and the
common faith in his r~nerative powers, should
have f!urvived with equal potency and acceptation
during the ages immediately succeeding the christian
era. It must not however, be forgotten, that these
were the times also, when an infinity of superstitions
of every description disgraced the Roman~world ;
although it would have appeared a necessary con-
sequence, that their prevalency ~;hould have been
checked by the increasing determination of learning
and science.
• Aristoph. Plut act. ii. sc. 6. and iii. ac 2.
Digi '"d by Google
. G!'kLJ!R'-'-~
~ ..--.
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB JU.JlVBLLOU8. 193
If at this period the number of dreaming patient&
had fallen off at Cos and Epidaurus, the deficiency
was amply compensated by the growing popularity of
lEsculapius's. shrines at Rome, Pergamus, Alma,
Mallos, ·and other places, where the ancient ritual&
were faithfully preserved. The highest magistrates
in the Roman states not only countenanced, but
patronised the superstition ; Marcus Aurelius, by the
friendship with which he honoured the Paphlagonian
imposter Alexander, and Caracalla, by the journey
he undertook to Pergamus, to obtain the c11re of a
disease which inflicted him. This Alexander, the
Cagliostro of his age, whose memoirs have been
handed down to us by Lucian, made shift to father a
pew species of juggling upon the ancient process of
incubation : for he pretends that it was necessary for
him to sleep for a night in the sealed scrips which
contain the queries he was to have resolved for those
who visited his oracle.* Thlring this interval he
dexterously opened the scrips, and sealed them.
up again ; pretending that the .cesponses which he
delivered to the querists in the morning, had been
revealed to him by the deity in a dream.
The priests of JEsculapius possessed a never failing
source of information on the recipes or votive
tablets with which these temples abounded. These
were sometimes engraven on pillars, as at Epidaurus ;
of which Pausanias says there were six remaining in
his time, and besides these, one in particular removed
from the rest, on which it was recorded that Hip-
" Luciani, oper. t. ii. ed Reitzii.
0
Digi '"d by Google
19f TBAOMATUROJA, OR
polytus had sacri1i.ced twenty horses, in return for his
having been restored to life by him. Five memorials
only of this kind have reached the present age. One of
them is to be found in the beginning of Galen's fifth
boo\ de Compos. medic. : it is taken from the temple
of Phthas, near Memphis, and is the least interestiilg
of the whole. Its subject is the use of the Diktam-
nus, borrowed from Heras of Cappadocia, a medical
writer, frequently quoted by Galen. The remaining
four are much more important : they were engraven
on a marble slab,"' of later date at Rome, and are
thought, with much probability, to have belonged to
the JEeculapian temple in the Insula Tiberina. The
present tranl!lation, in which some errors either of
the artist or copyist are rectified, is extracted from
the first volume of Gruter's Corp. lnscriptionum.
The nlllTations are perspicuous and laconic.
1• " In these latter days, a certain blind man, by
name Caius, had this oracle vouchsafed to him-
' that he should draw near to the altar after the
manner of one who could see ; then walk from right
to left, lay the five fingers of his right hand on the
altar, then raise up his hand and place it on his eyes.•
And behold ! the multitude saw the blind man open
his eyes, and they rejoiced, such splendid miracles
should signalize the reign of our Emperor Anto-
ninus."
2. " To Lucius, who was so wasted away by
pains in his side, that all doubted of his recovery,
• It is oftep. called by a11tiquaries Tahel/tJ Marmorea
11pud /oftJ./faeo•, aa it waa first preserved inthe collection.
Digi '"d by Google
--
\
I
I
I
I
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB IIAllVBLLOUS, 195
the god gave this response : ' Approach thou the
altar; take ashes from it, mix them up with wine
and then lay thyself on thy sore side.' And the man
recovered, and openly returned thanks to the god
amidst the congratulations of the people."
3. "To Julian who spitted blood, and was given
over by every one, the god granted this response :
'Draw near, take pine apples from off the altar, and
eat them with wine for three days. And the man got
well, and came and gave thanks in the presence of the
people."
4. A blind soldier, Valerius Asper by name, re-
~ved this answer from the god : that he.should mix
the blood of a white cock with milk, make an eye
ointment therewith, and rub his eyes with it for
three days. And lo ! the blind recovered his sight,
and came, and publicly gave thanks to the god."
The success with which the Priests of A!:sculapius
carried on their impostures, and the poptdarity which
their dexterous management, no less than the vulgar
credulity obtained for them, will cease to surprise us
on maturer consideration. It could not be a difficult
task for them to give the minds of their patients
whatever bias was best adapted to their purposes.
These credulous beings passed several days and nights
in the temple, and their imagination could not fail
to be powerfully impressed with what was diligently
told them of the prescriptions and cures of A!:scula-
pius; nor to retain during their slumbers many lively
impressions of their meditations by day ; their priestly
nurses too were neither so blind to their own in·
terests, nor so careless of their reputations as to omit
0 2
Digi '"d by Google
J96 TBAUKATUB.GIA0 OR
the prescribing of such modes of diet and medical
remedies as were calculated to appease their patientsp
sufferings. Besides which, however delusive and
empirical their outward ceremonials and bold preten-
sions might have been, we should remember, that
priests, having some acquaintance with the science of
medicine, were generally selected to officiate on those
spots where the incubitary process* was the order of
the day. To this acquaintance were added the
results ofdaily experience, and the frequent oppor-
tunities which the incessant demands of the infirm
upon their skill afforded them of correcting previous
errors and improving their practical knowledge :
of gradually ascertaining the various kinds and
appearances of human disorders ; and of digesting
such data as would enable them, with the least
possible chance of failure, to prescribe the modes
of cure and tr~atment suitable to the various stages
and specie!jfofthe applicant's maladies. With such
means, it would have been not a little singq.lar
if the .priests of £sculapius had failed in convert-
ing the popular veneration to his credit and their own.
emolument. ·;..
' • It ~ somewhat singular, that Cicero's treatise on
divination; as well as the \toorks of Hippocrates and Galen,
should be so destitute of information on the subjt>ct of a mode·
of cure which was of such long standing, and so universally
esteemed. From the two last, one should at least have ex-
pected something more satisfactory : Cos being the birth-
place of the one, and l'ergamua of the other.
Digi '"d by Google
--- .........
::::r;->'O--"!"!"..,
__--::c;_ ,.,__ - - -
~~-"' ----· ..;._- - - -~ -
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. 197
CHAPTER XII.
ON AMtJLBTS, CHARMS, TALISMAN&-PHITLJUtS, THJ!IR
ORIGIN AND IMAGINARY EFFICACY, ETC.
AlfuLETS are certain substances wom about the
neck or other parts of the body, under the supersti-
tious impression of preventing diseases, of curing, or
removing them.
The origin of amulets may be traced to the mo11t _
remote ages of mankind. In our researches to dis-
cover and fix the period when remedies were first
employed for the alleviation of bodily suffering, we
are soon lost in conjecture or involved in fable:
We are unable, indeed, to reach the period in any
country, when the inhabitants were destitute of
medical resources, and even among the most uncul-
tivated tribes we find medicine cherished as a blessing
and practised as an art. The feelings of the sufferer,
and the anxiety of those about him, must, in the
rudest state of society, haTe incited a spirit of in-
dustry and research'~o procure ease, the modification
of beat and cold, of woistnre and dryness ; and the
regulation and change of diet and habit, must
Digi '"d by Google
19!1 THAUIUTURGJA, OR
intuitively have suggested themselves for the relief
of pain ; and when these resources failed, charms,
amulets, and incantatioll!, were the natural expedi-
ents of the barbarians, ever more inclined to indulge
the delMive hope of superstition than to listen to the
voi~ of sober reason.
Traces of amulets may be discovered in very early
history, though Dr. Warburton is evidently in error
when he fixes the origin of these magical instruments
to the age of the Ptolomie1.1, which was not more
than three hundred years before Christ. This
assertion is refuted by Galen, who informs us the
Egyptian King Nechepsus, who lived 630 years
before Christ, had written, that a green jasper cut
into the form of a dragon surrounded with rays, if
applied externally, would strengthen the stomach
and organs of digestion. This opinion, moreover,
is supported by scripture : for what were the earrings
which Jacob buried under the oak of Sechem, as
related in Genesis, but amulets. And Josephus in
his antiquities of the Jews,• informs us that Solomon
discovered a plant efficacious in the cure of epilepsy,
and that he employed the aid of a charm, for the
purposes of assisting its virtues. The root of the
herb was concealed in a ring, which was applied to
the nostrils of the demoniac ; and Josephus remarks
that he saw himself a Jewish priest practise the art
of Solomon with complete success in the presence of
the Emperor Vespasian, his sons and the tribunes of
the Roman army. From this art of Solomon, exhibited
• Lib....m. chap. 2. 5.
Digi '"d by Google
t
I
I
I
i
'
.,
;
I
t
f
!
~
RLUCIDATIONS OF TR.& MARVELLOUS. 1119
through the medium of a ring or seal, we have the
Eastern stories which celebrate the seal of Solomon,
and record the potency of his sway over the various
orders of demons or of genii, who were supposed to
be the invincible tormentors or benefactors of the
human race.
Nor were such means confined to dark and barba-
rous ages. Theophrastus pronounced Pericles to be
insane in consequence of eeeing him with an amulet
811Spended from his neck. And in the declining era
of the Roman Empire, we find this superstitioqs
custom so general that the Emperor Caracalla was
induced to make a public edict, ordering, that no
man should wear any superstitious amulets about his
person.
All remedies working as it were sympathetically,
and plainly unequal- to the effect, may be termed
amulets ; whether used at a distance by another
person, or carried immediately about the patient.
By the Jews, amulets were called kamea, and by
the Greeks phylacteries. The latins called them
amuleta or ligatura ; the catholics agnus dei, or con-
secrated relics; and the natives of Guinea fetishes.
Various kinds of substances are employed by different
people, and which they venerate and suppose capable
of preserving them from danger and infection, as
well as to remove disease when present. Plutarch
says of Pericles, an Athenian general, that when a
friend came to see him, and inquired after his health
he reached out his hand and shewed him his amulet ;
by which he meant to intimate the truth of his illness,
Digi '"d by Google
200 THAUMATUROIA, OB
and, at the same time, the confidence be placed
in these popular remedies.
Amulets are still prevalent in catholic countries at
the present day ; the Spaniards and Portuguese
maintain their popularity. Among the Jews they are
equally venerated. Indeed, there are few instances
of ancient superstition some portion of which bas not
been preserved, and not unfrequently have they been
adopted by men ofotherwise good understanding, who
plead in excuse, that they are innoxious, cost little,
and if they can do no good, they can do no hann.
Lord Bacon, whom no one can suspect of igno-
rance, says, that if a man wear a bone ring or a
planet seal, strongly believing, by that means, thatbe
might obtain his mistress, and that"it would preserve
him unhurt at sea, or in a battle, it would probably
make him more active and less timid ; as the auda-
city they might inspire would conquer and bind
weaker minds in the execution of a peculiar duty.
AMULETS USBD BY THB COMMON PEOPLE.
A variety of things are worn about the person by
the common people for the cure of ague : and, upon
whatever principle it may be accounted for, whether
by the imagination or a natural termination of the
disease, many have apparently been cured by them,
where the Peruvian bark, the boasted specific, had
previously failed. Dr. Willis says,that charms resist-
ing agues have often been applied to the wrist with.
- Digii?edb,Google J
•.:.lill·- ----
--
- ..
-.lilli·ioii·
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. 201
succcess. ABRACADABRA, written in a peculiar
manner, that is, in the form of a cone, it is said, has
cured the ague ; the herb lunaria, gathered by
moon-light, has, on some high authorities, performed
surprising cures. Perhaps it was gathered during the
invocating in11uence of the following charm, which
may be found in the 12th book, chap. XIV. p. 177
of " Scot's discovery of witchcraft," which is headed
thus:--
" .Another charme that witches use at the gathering of
their medicinal herln.''
Haile be thou holy herbe,
Growing in the ground,
And in the mount Calvaire
First wert thou found.
Thou art good for many a sore,
And healeet many a wound,
In the name of sweet Jesus
I take thee from the ground.
We are told that Naaman was cured by dipping
seven times in the river Jordan. Certain formalities
were also performed at the pool of Bethesda.
Dr. Chamberlayne's anodyne necklace&, were, for
a length of time, objects of the most anxious
maternal solicitude, until their occult virtues
became lost by the reverence for them h<'ing
destroyed; and tha&e which succeeded them have
long since run their race or nearly so.
Digi '"d by Google
202 TBAUMATURGIA, OR
The grey limewort was at one time sapposed to
have been a !!pecific in hydrophobia-that it not only
cured those labouring under this disorder, but by
carrying it about the person, it was reputed to possess
the extraordinary power of preventing mad dogs from
biting them. Calvert paid devotions to St. Hubert
for the recovery of his son, who was cured by this
means. The son also performed the necessary rites
at the shrine, and was cured not only of the hydro-
phobia " but of the worser phrensy with which his
father had instilled him." Cramp-rings were also
used ; and eelskins to this day are tied round the
legs as a preventive of this spasmodic affection ; and
by laying sticks across the floor, on going to bed,
cramp has also been prevented.
Numerous are the charms and incantations used at
the present day for the removal of warts, many cases
of which are not a little surprising. And we are told
by Lord Verulam, who is allowed to have been as
great a genius as this country ever produced, that,
when he was at Paris, he had above a hundred warts
on his hands; and that the English ambassador's
lady, then at court, and a woman far above supersti-
tion, removed them all by only rubbing them with
the fat side of the rind of a piece of bacon, which
they afterwards nailed to a post, with the fat side
towards the south. In five weeks, says my Lord,
they were all removed. The following are his Lord-
ship's obeervatiolll!, in his own words, relative to the
Rower of amulets. After deep metaphysical obser-
vations on nature, and arguing in mitigation of
Digi oed by Google
.BLUCIDATIONS OJr TBB IIAilV.BLLOUS, 203
sorcery, witchcraft,· and divination, effects that far
outstrip the belief in amulett>, .he observes .. We
should not reject all of this kind, because it is not
known how far th011e contributing to superstition,
depend on natural causes. Charms have not the power
from contract with evil spirits. but proceed wholly
from strengthening the imagination : in the same
manner that images and their influence, have pre-
vailed on religion, being called from a different way
of use and application, sigils, incantations, and
spells."
ICCBNTRJCITIBS, CAPRICES, AND BPFBCTS, OP TRB
IMAGINATION.
A certain writer, apologizing for the irregularities
of great genii, delivers himself as follows : " The
gifts of imagination bring the heaviest task upon the
vigilance of reason ; and to bear those faculties with
liDerring rectitude or invariable propriety, requires a
degree of firmness and of cool attention, which does
not always attend the higher gifts of the mind. Yet,
· difficult as nature herself seems to have reduced the
task of regularity to genius, it is the supreme conso-
lation of dullness, to seize upon those excesses, which
are the overftowings of faculties they never en-
joyed."* Are not the gifts o/ imaginatio11 mistaken
here for the strength of passions ? Doubtless, where
strong passions accompany great parts, as perhaps
• Langhorne's Life of Mr. Collina.
Digi '"d by Google
204 THAUJUTUilOIA, Oil
they often do, the imagination may encrease their
force and activity ! but, where passions are calm and
gentle, imagination of itself should seem to have no
oon1lict but speculatively with reason. There, indeed,
it wages an eternal war ; and, if not contracted and
strictly regulated, it will carry the patient into endless
extravagancies. The term patient is here properly used,
because men, under the influence of imagination, are
mo!t truly distempered. The degree ·of this distem-
per will be in proportion to the prevalence of imagi-
nation over reason, and, according to this proportion,
amount to more or less of the whimsical ; but when
reason shall become, as it were, extinct, and imagina-
tion govern alone, then the distemper will be mad-
ness under the wildest and most fantastic modes.
Thus, one of those invalids, perhaps, shall be all
sorrow for having been most unjustly deprived of the
crown ; though his vocation, poor man! be that of a
school-master. Another, like Horace's madman, is
all joy: and it may seem even cruelty to cure him.
The operations and caprices of the imagination are
various and endless ; and, as they cannot be reduced
to regularity or system, so it is highly improbable
that any certain method of cure should ever be found
out for them. It has generally been thought, that
matter of fact might most successfully be opposed to
the delusions of imagination, as being proof to the
senses, and carrying conviction unavoidably to the
understanding; but we rather suspect, that the un-
derstanding or reasoning faculty, has little to do in all
these cases : at least so it should seem from the two
following facts, which are by no means badly attested.
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 205
Fienus, in his curious little book, de Viribus Ima-
gi114tionis, records from Donatus the case of a man,
who fancied his body encreased to such a size, that
he durst not attempt to pass through the door of his
chamber. The physician believing that nothing could
more etrectually cure this error of imagination, than
to shew that the thing could actually be done, caused
the patient to be thrust forcibly through it : who,
!truck with horror, and falling suddenly into agonies,
complained of being crushed to pieces, and expired
soon after.* .
The other case, as related by Van Swieten, in his
commentaries upon Boerhaave, is that of a learned
man, who had studied, till he fancied his legs to be of
glass : in consequence of which he durst not attempt
to stir, but was constantly under anxiety about them.
H~ maid bringing one day some wood to the fire,
threw it carelessly down ; and was severely repri-
manded by her master, who was terrified not a little
for his legs of glass. The surly -wench, out of all
patience with his megrims, as she called them, gave
him a blow with a log upon the parts atrected; which
so enraged him, that he instantly rose up, and from
that moment recovered the use of his legs.-Was
reason concerned any more here; or was it not rather
one blind impulse acting against another ?
Imagination has, unquestionably, a most powerful
effect upon the mind, and in all these miraculous
cures, is by far the strongest ingredient. Dr. Strother
says, ., The influence of the mind and passions works
• Reverii Praxis Medica, p. ISS.
Digi '"d by Google
206 THAUMATURGIA, OR
upon the mind and body in sensible operations like a
medicine, and is of far the greater force than ex-
ercise. The countenance betrays a good or wick-
ed intention ; and that good or wicked intention
will produce in different persons a strength to en-
counter, or a weakness to yield to the prepond-
. erating side." Dr. Brown says, " Our looks disco-
ver ·our passions, there being mystically in our faces
certain characters, which carry in them the motto of
our souls, and, therefore, probably work secret effects
in other parts." This idea is beautifully illustrated by
Garth in his Dispensatory, in the following linea :-
" Thus paler looks impetuous rage proclaim,
And chilly virgins redden into flame.
See envy oft transformed in wan disguise,
And mirth sits gay and smiling in the eyes,
Oft our complexions do the soul declare,
And tell what passions in the features are.
Hence 'tis we look the wond'rous cause to find,
How body acta upon impassive mind.
On the power and pleasure of the imagination,
from the pleasures and pains it administers here
below, Addison c:oncludes that God, who knows all
the ways of afflicting us, may so transport us here-
after with such beautiful and glorious visions, or tor-·
ment us with such hideous and ghastly spectres, .as ·
might even of themselves suffice to make up the-~­
entire heaven or bell of any future being. ·
Digi '"d by Google
__1__
·
'il
I
I
'
•~
,
IL11CIDATION8 01' TBB IIA&TKLLOUS. 207
DOCTBIN.I OF l!.FFLUVIA -IIIBACULOUS CUDS BY
JIBANS 01' CBAJlll81 AIIULBTII, BTC.
Dr. Willis, in his Treatise on nervous disorders,
does not hesitate to recommend amulets in epileptic
disorders. " Take," says he, " some fresh peony
roots, cut them into square bits, and hang them round
the neck, changing them as often as they dry." ltis
not improbable that the hint was taken from this
circnmstance for the anodvne necklaces, which, some
time ago, were in such .:epute, as the Doctor, some
~ttle way further on, prescribes the same root for the
looseness, fevers, and convulsious of children, during
the time of teething, mixed, to make it appear more
miraculous, with some elk's hoof.
St. Vitus's dance is said to have been cured bv
the affticted person paying a visit to the tomb of th~
1 saint, near Ulm, every May. Indeed, there is no
t little reason in this assertion ; for exercise and change
( ofair will change many obstinate diseases. The bite
, of the tarantula is cured by music ; and this ouly by
( certain tunes. Turner, whose ideas are so extrava-
, gantly absurd, where he asserts, that the symptoms
,' of hydrophobia may not appear for forty years after
ithe bite of the dog, and who maintains that " the
1 1Javer or breath of such a dog is infectious;" and
\that men bitten by mad dogs, will bite like dogs
;again, and die mad ; although he laughs at the ano-
\dyne necklaces, argues much in the same manner.
it is not, indeed, so very strange that the effiuvia
Digi '"d by Google
208 THAUJU.TUB.GlA, OJI.
from external medicines entering our bodies, should
effect such considerable changes, when we see the
efficient cause of apoplexy, epilepsy, hysterics, plague,
and a number of other disorders, consists, as it were,
in imperceptible vapours.-Blood-stone (Lapis JEti·
tes) fastened to the arm by some secret means, is
said to prevent abortion. Sydenham, in the iliac
passion, orders a live kitten to be constantly applied
to the abdomen ; others have used pigeons split alive,
applied to the soles of the feet, with success, in pes-
tilential fevers and convulsions. It was doubtless the
impression that relief might be obtained by external
agents. that the court of king David ad\ised him to
seek a young virgin, in order that a portion of the
natural heat might be communicated to his body, and
give l!trength to the decay of nature. " Take the
heart and liver of the fish and make a smoke, and the
devil shall smell it and flee away." During the pla-
gue at Marseilles, which Belort attributed to the larvm
of wonns infecting the saliva, food, and chyle ; and
which, he says, "were hatched by the stomach, took
their passage into the blood, at a certain size, hinder-
ing the circulation, affecting the juices and solid
parts." He advised amulets of mercury to be worn
in bags suspended at the chest and nostrils, either as
a safeguard, or as means of cure ; by which method~
through the admissiveness of the pores, effluvia spe-
cially destructive of all venomous insects, were re-
ceived into the blood. " An illustrious prince,••
Belort says, " by wearing such an amulet, escaped
the small-pox."
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS OP TUB JIAaTBLLOUB. 209
Clognini, an Italian physician, ordered two or three
drachma of crude mercury to be worn 88 a defensive
against the jaundice ; and also 88 a preservative
against the noxious vapoun of inclement seasons :
" It breaks," be observes, " and conquers the diffe-
rent figured seeds of pestilential distempen floating in
the air; or else, mixing with the air, kills them
where hatched." By others, the power of mercury,
in these cases, bas been ascribed to an elective faculty
given out by the warmth of the body, which draws
out the contagious particles. For, according to this
entertained notion, aU bodies are continua11y emitting
effluvia, more or lese, around them, and some whe-
ther they are internal or external. The Bath waters,
for instance, change the colonr of silver in the pocket
of those who use them. Mercury produces the same
efect; Tartar emetic, rubbed on the pit of the
stomach, produces vomiting. Yawning and laughing
are infectious ; so are fear and shame. The sight of
110nr things, or even the idea of them, will set the
teeth on edge. Sma11-pox, itch, and other diseases,
are contagious; if so, say they, mercurial amulets
bid fair to destroy the germ of some complaints
when U!ed only 88 an external application, either by
manual attrition, or worn as an amulet. But medi-
cated or not, all amulets are precarious and uncertain,
and in the cure of diseases are, by no means, to be
trusted to.
The Barbary Moors, and genera11y throughout the
Mahommedan dominions, the people are strikingly
attached to charms, to which, and nature, they leave
the cUl'e of almost every disorder ; and this is the
p
Digi '"d by Google
210 THAUMATU&GlA, OR
most strongly impressed upon them from their beliefin
predestination, which, according to their creed, stipu-
lates the evil a man is to suffer, as well as the length of
time it is ordained he should live upon the land of his
forefathers : consequently they imagine that any inter-
ference from secondary means would avail them no-
thing, an opinion said tohave been entertained by Wil-
liam III, but one by no means calculated for nations,
liberty, and commerce : upon the principle that when
the one was entrenched upon, men would probably be
more sudden in their revenge, and dislike physic and
occupation: and when actuated with religious enthu-
siasm, nothing could stand them in any service.
The opinion of an old navy surgeon,* on the sub-
ject, is worth recording here. " A long and intense
passion on one object, whether of pride, love, fear,
anger, or envy, we see have brought on some uni-
versal tremors: on others, convulsions, madne$s, me-
lancholy, consumption, hectics, or such a chronical
disorder as has wasted their flesh, or their strength,
as certainly as the taking in of any poisonous drugs
would have done. Anything frightful, sudden, or
surprising, upon soft, timorous natures, not only
shews itself in the continuance, but produces some-
times very troublesome consequences-for instance, a
parliamentary fright will make even grown men
bewray themselves, scare them out of their wits, turn
the hair grey. Surprise removes the hooping cough;
looking from precipices or seeing wheels turn swiftly
• John Ailkin, author of the Navy Surgeon, 1742. See
Demouologia, p. 64 et seg.
Digi '"d by Google
BLUC!DATIONS OF TBK IIARVBLLOuol. 211
will give giddiness. 'Shall then these little accidents,
or the passions, (from caprice or hnmour, perhaps,)
produce those effects, and not be able to do anything
by amulets ? No; as the spirits, in many cases, resort
in plenty, we find where the fancy determines, giving
joy and gladness to the heart, strength and fleetness
to the limbs, and violent palpitations. To amulets, un-
der strong imagination, is carried with more force to a
distempered part, and, under these cirenmatancet!,
its natural powers exert better to a discussion.
" The cures compassed in this manner," says our
author, " are not more admirable than many of the
distempers themselves. Who can apprehend . by
what impenetrable method the bite of a mad dog,
or tarantula, can produce these symptoms ? The
touch of a torpedo numbness ? If they are a}.
lowed to do these, doubtless they may the other;
and not by miracles, which Spinoza denies the
possibility of, but by natural and regular causes,
though inscrutable to us. The best way, therefore,
in using amulets, must be in squaring them to the
imagination of patients : let the newness and SqF·
prise exceed the invention, and keep up the humour
by a long scroll of cures and vouchers ; by thel!e and
such means, many distempers have been cured.
Quacks again, according to their boldness and way
of addressing (velvet and infallibility particularly)
command success by striking .the fancies of an an-
dience. If a few, more sensible than the rest, see
the doctor's miscarriages, and are not easily gulled
at tint sight, yet, when they see a man is never
ashamed, in time, jump in to his assistance."
p 2
Digi '"d by Google
212 THAUIIATURGIA, OB
There is much truth and per1inence in some of the
above remarks, and they apply nearly to the general
practice of the present day. The farces and whims
of people require often as much discrimination on
the part of the physician as the disease itself. Those
who know beat how to flatter such caprices, are fre-
quently the best paid for their trouble. Nervous
di&eases are always in season, and it is here that
some professional dexterity is pardonable. Nature,
when uninterrupted, will often do more than art ;
but our inability upon all occasions to appreciate the
efforts of nature in the cure of diseases, must always
render our notion, with respect to the powers faith,
liable to numerous errors and deceptions. There is,
in fact, nothing more natural, and at the same time
more erroneous, than to lay the cure of a disease to
the door of the last medicine that had been pres-
cribed. By these means the advocates of amulets
and charms, have ever been enabled to appeal
to the testimony of what they are pleased to call
experience in justification of their pretensions, and
egregious superstitions ; and cases which, in truth,
ought to have been classed, or rather designated,
as lucky escapes, have been triumphantly puffed
off as skilful cures ; and thus, medicines and me-
dical practitioners, have alike received the meed
of unmerited praise, or the stigma of unjust censure.
Of all branches of human science, medicine is one of
the most interesting to mankind : and, accordingly
as it is erroneously or judiciously cultivated, is evi-
dently conducive to the prejudice or welfare of the
public. Of how great consequence is it, then, that
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TRill IURVBLLOUS. 213
our endeavours should be exerted in stemming the
propagation oferrors, whether arising from ignorance,
or prompted by motives of base cupidity. in giving
assistance to the disseminations of useful truths, and
to the perfection of ingenious discoveries.
I
Digi '"d by Google
2U THAUIU.TUKGU., OK
CHAPTER XIII.
ON TA1.1811AH8-8011B CURIOUS, NATURAL ONBS, BTC.
Taa Egyptian amulets are not so ancient as the
Babylonian talismans, but in their uses they were
exactly similar. Some little figures, supposed to have
been intended as charms, have been found on several
mummies, which, at various times, have been brought
to Europe. Plutarch informs us that the soldiers
wore rings, on which the representation of an insect
resemblingourbeetle, was inscribed; and welearn from
1Elian, that the judges had always suspended round
their necks a small figure of Truth formed of eme-
ralds. The superstitious belief in the virtues of ta-
lismans is yet far from being extinct, the Copths.
the Arabians, the Syrians, and, indeed, almost all the
inhabitants of Asia, west of the Ganges, whether
christians or mahometans, still use them against
possible evils.
There is little distinction between talismans, amu-
lets and the gree-grees of the Africans as regards
their pretended efficacy ; though there is some in their
external configuration. Magical figures, ellgt1lven
or cut under superstitious observances of the cha-
Digi '"d by Google
-----...:
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB MARVBLLOU8, 215
racterisms and configurations of the heaven!!, are
called talismans ; to which astrologers, hermetical
philosophers, and other adepts, attribute wonderful
virtues, particularly that of calling down cele!!tial
influen<:el!.*
The talismans of the Samotbracians, so famous of
old, were pieces of iron formed into certain images,
and set in rings. They were reputed as preservatives
against all kinds of evils. There were other talismans
taken from vegetables, and others from minerals.
Three kinds of talismans were usually distinguished
lat. the astronomical, known by the signs or con-
stellations of the heavens engraven upon them, with
other figures, and some unintelligible characters ;
2nd. the magical, bearing very extraordinary figur:es,
with superstitious words and names of angels
unheard of; 3rd. the mi.rt talismans, which consist
of signs and barbarous words ; but without any
superstitious ones, or names ofangels.
It has been asserted and maintained by some
Rabine, that the brazen serpent raised by Moses
in the wilderness, for the destruction of the serpents
that annoyed the Israelites, was properly a talisman.
A 11 the miraculous things wrought by Apollonius
Tyanaeus are attributed to the virtue and influence of
talismllns; and that wizard, as he is called, is even
said to be the inventor of them. Some authors take
• The author of a book, entitled " TalinnaM jtutijU6,"
pronounces a talisman to be the seal, figutoe, character, or
image of a heavenly sign, constellation or planet, engraven
on a sympathetic stone, or on a metal corresponding to the
star, etc. in order to receive ita inftuences.
Digi '"d by Google
216 TBAUlUTtrllOIA, OR
several Runic medals,-medals, at least, whose in·
scriptions are in the Runic characters,-fortalismans,
it being notorioDll that the northern nations, in their
heathen state, were much devoted to them. M.
Keder, however has shown, that the medals here
spoken of are quite other things than talismans.
It appears from the Evangelists* that, when
St. Paul, after he had been Bhipwrecked, and escaped
to the island of Malta, a viper fastened on his hand
as he was laying a bundle of sticks, he had gathered,
on the fire; and that, by a miracle, and to the great
astonishment of the spectators, inhabitants of the
il'lland, he not only suffered no harm, but also cured,
by the divine power, the chief of the island, and a
great number of others, of very dangerous m8la-
dies. There remain still in that island, as so many
trophies gained by the Apo111tle over that venemous
beast, a great· many Bmall stones representing the
eyes and tongues of serpents, and considered for
several centurie! past, as powerful amulets against
dift'erent sorts of dil'ltempers and poisons. As the
virtue of these stones is still much boasted of by the
Maltese, and as some, on the contrary, maintain that
they are the petrified teeth of a fish called lamia, it
will not be irrelevant here to relate Bome observations
from the best authors on thi& interesting subject, so
much to our purpose.
It is said that those eyes and tongues of serpents
are only found by the Maltese when they dig into the
earth, which is whitish throughout the island. or
• Acts of the Apostles, cbRp. xxviii. v. ~·
Digi '"d by Google
-----
ELUCiDATIONS o• THB IIABV&LLOUB. il7
draw up stone, especially about the cave of St. Paul.
This stone is so soft, that, like clay, it may be cut
through with any sharp instrument, and made to
receive easily different figures, for building the walls
oftheir houses and ramparts ; but, when it has been
imbibed with a sufficient quantity of rain or well
water, it changes into a 11int that resists the cutting
ofthe sharpest inetrument : whence the houses that
are built of it in the two cities, appear as hewn out
ofone solid rock, and become harder, the more they
are exposed to the inclemencies of the weather.
This hardneSB may, with good reason, be ascribed
to the salt of nitre, which contracts a certain vis-
cidity from the rain wherewith it is mixed, and
which easily penetrates into these stones, because
tbeir substance is spongy and cretaceous, and
adheres to the tongue as hartshorn.
It is in these stones that not only the eyes and
toDgues of serpents are found, but also their viscera
and other parts : as lungs, liver, heart, spleen, ribe,
and so resembling life, and with such natural colonrs,
that one may well doubt whether they are the work
of nature or art; the figure of the eyes and tongues is
Yery difi'erent. Some are elliptic, but, for the
greater part round: some represent an hemisphere,
others a segment, others an hyperbola. The glos-
aopetne are naturally of a conic figure, representing
aeu.te, obtuse, regular, and irregular cones. They
are also of different colours, especially the eyes; for
some of them are of an ash-colour, others liver
oolour, some brown, others blackish;· but these, as
m08t rare, are most esteemed. Bracelets are
218 THAUMATURGIA, 0&
frequently made of them and set in gold : some
representing an entire eye with a white pupil, and
these are the most beautiful. Several are likewise
found of an orange colour.
The virtues attributed by the Maltese to those eyes
and tongues, and to the white earth which is found
in the i!laud, particularly in St. Paul's cave, and .
which is kept for use by the apothecaries, as the ·
American bole, are very singular; for they reckon
them not only a preservative · against all sorts of
poison, and an efficacious remedy for those who have
taken poison, but also good in a number of diseases.
They are taken internally, infused in water, wine,
or in any other convenient liquor ; or let to lie for
some hours in vessels made of the white earth; or
the white earth is taken itself dissolved in those
liquors. The eyes set as· precious stones in rings,
and so as to touch immediately the flesh, are worn
by the inhabitants on the fingers ; but ~e tongues
are fastened about the arm, or suspended from the
neck.
Paul Bucconi, a Sicilian nobleman, treated thi15
notion of the eyes and tongues of serpents as a mere
vulgar error ; and maintains that they either constitute
a particular species of stone produced in the earth,
or in the stones ofthe island of Malta, as in their
matrix ; or that they are nothing more than the
petrified teeth of some marine fish ; which is also the
opinion of Fabius Columna, Nicholas Steno and other
physicians and anatomists.
It seems to this noble author that the glossopetra:!
should be classed in the animal kingdom, because..
",''"db,Google
. - ~ ---"'- .....:...-::... - - ... .... .
BLUCIDATIO!'i'S OP THE JUllVBLLOU!!. 219
being burnt, they are changed into cinders as bones,
before they are reduced into a calx or ashes,
whilst calcined .stones are immediately reduced into
a calx. He further says, that the roots of the
glossopetrre are often found broke» in different ways,
which is an evident argument that they have not
been produced by nature, in the place they are digged
out of, because nature forms other fossils, figured
entirely in their matrix, without any hurt or muti-
lation. Add to this, that the substance is differ-
ent in different parts of the glossopetrre ; solid at
the point, less solid at the root, compact at the
surface, porons and fibrous in the interior : besides,
the polished surface, contrary to the custom of nature,
which forms no stone, whether common or precious,
is polished ; and, lastly, the figure that varies
di1Ferent ways, as well as the size, being found great,
broad, triangular, narrow, small, very small, pyra-
midal, straight, curved before, behind, to the right
and to the left, in form of a saw with small teeth,
furnished with great jags or notches, and frequently
absolutely pyramidal without notches ; all these
particulars favour his opinion. But, as he thence
believes he has proved that the glossopetne should
not be classed amongst stones, so also what he has
said may prove that they are the natural teeth of
those fishes, which are called, by lithographers,
lamia, aquila, requiem, (shark) etc. and therefore
there scarce remains any reason for a further doubt
on this head.
There are representations of curiosities, which we
aball give an account of from the Ephemerides of
Digi '"d by Google
220 TBAt111ATUllGIA, Oll
the Curious. It is customary to see at Batavia,
in the island of Java, the figure of serpents im-
pressed on the shells of eggs. Andrew Cleyerus,
a naturalist of considerable note, says, that when he
was at Batavia in lj'19. he had seen himself, on the
14th of September, an egg newly laid by a hen. of
the ordinary sU!e, but representing very exactly,
towards the summit of the other part of the shell,
the figure of a serpent and all ita parts, not only the
lineaments of the serpent were marked on the surface,
but the three dimensions of the body were as sensible
as if they had been engraved by an able sculptor, or
impreased on wax, plaister or 110me other like matter.
One could see very plainly the head, ears, and a
cloven tongue starting out of the throat ; the eyes
were sparkling and resplendent, and represented so
perfectly the interior and exterior of the parts of the
eye, with their natural colours, that they seemed
to behold with astonishment the eyes even of the
spectators. To account for thia phenomenon, it may
be supposed that, the hen being near laying, a 1
serpent presented itself to her sight, and that her
imagination, struck thereby, impressed the figure 1
of the serpent on the egg that was ready to press
out of the ovarium.
An egg equally wonderful, was laid by' a hen at
Rome on the 14th. of December, 1680. The
famous comet that appeared then on the head of An- .
dromeda, with other stars, were seen represented on 1
its shell. Sebastian Scheffer says, that he had seen an 1
egg with the representation ofan eclipse on it. Signor
Magliabecchi, in his letter to the academy of the
. _ .. . _ Digii?Odb,Google
- -~--- ~-- --~ -- ·-·-· _....____.___ -
I
--- .J
ELUCIDATIONS OF THR MARVELLOUS. 221
Curious, on the 20th. of October 1682, has these
words; " Last month I had sent me from Rome,
a drawing of an egg found at Tivoli, with the im-
pression of the sun and the transparent comet with
a twisted tail."
There are also representations of Indian nuts, or
small cocos, with the head of an ape. The nut
has been exactly engraved in the Ephemerides of the
Carious, both as to size and form, and covered with
ita shell, as expressed there by cyphers and other
figues which represent the same nut stripped of its
COfering, and exhibiting the head of an ape. This
nut seems pretty much like the foreign fruit described
by Clusius, Exoticorum lib. a, which John Bauhin
·(Hist. Plant. Universal Lib. 3) retaining the descrip-
tion of Clusius, calls, " a nut resembling the areca,
and which C. Bauhin (Pinac. lib. 11. sect. 6) calls,
the fruit of the fourteenth of Palm·tree, that bears
nota, or a foreign fruit of the same f!Ort as the
areca.
This fruit with its shell, is, as Clusius says, an
inch and a half in length, but is somewhat more than
an inch thick. Its shell or membraneous covering,
is about the thickness of the blade of a knife, and
outwardly of an ash colour mixed with brown.
Closius was in the right to say, that the shell of
this nut was formed of several fibrous parts, but those
6bres resemble rather those of the shell of a coco,
Jlan the fibrous parts of the back of the areca nut,
~e. moreover, has very properly observed, that this
~ is armed, at its lower part, with a double calyx
Digi '"d by Google
222 THAt:MATUllGIA, Oil
and that the opposite part terminates in a point ; bnt
it is necessary to observe, that this point ia not
formed by the prolongation of the shell, as the figure
he has given of it seems to specify ; but that from
the middle of the upper part of the fruit, there juts
out a sort of small needle.
The shell being taken oft', the nut is found to be
hard, ligneous, oblong, of unequal surface, furrowed,
and of a chesnut yellow. One of its extremities is
roundish, and the other, by the reunion and pro-
longation of three sorts of tubercles, terminatesi.a a
point; those protuberances being so formed, that·the
middlemost placed between the two others, has the
appearance of a nose, and the two lateral protube-
rances resemble fiat lips. On each side of that
which forms what we call the nose, a small hole or
nook is perceived, capable of containing a pea;
but does not penetrate deep, and is surrounded with.
black filaments, sometimea like eye-brows and eye-
lashes, so that the nut on that side resembles an
ape or a hare.
This lusus naturte, or sport of nature, has a very
pretty effect, but is oftener found in stones than other
substances. A great variety of such rare and singu-
lar productions of nature may be seen at the British
Museum : but nothing can be more extraordinary in
this respect than what is related concerning the agate
of Pyrrhus, which represented, naturally, Apollo
holding a lyre, with the nine muses distinguished
each by their attributes. In all probability, there is
great exaggeration in this fact, for we see nothing of
Digi '"d by Google
:BLUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS, 223
the kind that comes near this perfection. However,
it is said, that, at Pisa, in the church of St. John,
there is seen, on a stone, an old hermit perfectly
painted by nature, sitting near a rivulet, and holding
a bell in hia hand ; and that, in the temple of St.
Sophia, at Constantinople, there is to be seen, on a
white sacred marble, an image of St. John the Bap-
tist, cloaked with a camel's skin, but so far defective
that nature has given him but one foot.
There is an instance in the Mercury of France, for
Jaly 1730, of some curious sports of nature on in-
sects. The rector of St. James at Land. within a
league ofRennes, found in the month of March, 1730,
in the church-yard. a species of butterfly, about two
inches long, and half-an-inch broad, having on its
head the figure of a death's-head, of the length of
one nail, and perfectly imitating those that are repre-
sented on the church ornaments which are used for
the office of the dead. Two large wings were spotted
like a pall, and the whole body covered with a down,
or black hair, diversified with black and yellow, bear-
ing some resemblance to yellow.
These freaks of nature are equally extended to
animate as to inanimate bodies; and the human
species, as well as the brute creation, affords numer-
ous specimens, not only of redundance and deficiency
in her work, but a variety of other phenomena not
well understood. 'The march of intellect, however, it
is to be hoped, will be as successful in this instance,
as in obliterating the hobgoblins of astrologers and
quacks who so long have ruled the destiny and health
Digi '"d by Google
TRAUliATOI.GU, oa
of their le!s aagacioaa fellow-creatures ;--and when
the public sball beeome penuaded mthe advantages
which ecieDce may derin from oecurrences similar to
thoee we sball enumerate in the next chapter, it will
be more dispoeed to offer them to the consideration of
!cieoti6c men.
Digi '"d by Google
'i
..
~·
. •.
.•
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MA~Vli:LLOUS. 225
C H A P T E R XIV.
ON THB MEDICINAL POWERS ATTRIBVTBD TO MUSIC
BY TH.K ANCIENTS.
TH& power of music over the human mind, as well
as its influence on the animal creation, has been va-
riously attested; and its curative virtues have been no
less extolled by the ancients.* Martianus Capella
assures us, that fevers were removed by songs, and
that Asclepiades cured deafness by the sound of the
trumpet. Wonderful indeed r that the same noise
which would occasion deafness in some, should be a
specific for it in others ! It is making the viper cure
its own bite. But, perhaps Asclepiades was the'in-
ventor of the acousticon, or ear-trumpet, which has
b'een thought a modem discovery; or of the speaking-
trumpet, which is a kind of cure for distant deafness.
These would be admirable proofs of musical power !t
• Dr Burney's History of Music.
t It has been asserted by several moderns, that deaf people
can bear best in a great noise ; perhaps to prove thu.t Greek
Q
226 TRAUMATUROIA, OR
We have the testimony of Plutarch, and several other.
ancient writers, that Thaletas the Cretan, delivered
the La.cedemonians from the pestilence by the sweet·
ness of his lyre.
Xenocrates, as Martianus Capella further informs
us, employed the sound of instruments in the cure of
maniacs ; and Apollonius Dyscolus, in his fabulous
history (Historia Commentitia) tells us, from Theo·
phrastus's Treatise upon Enthusiasm, that music is a
sovereign remedy for a dejection of spirits, and di-
sordered mind ; and that the sound of the flute will
cure epilepsy and the sciatic gout. Athenreus quotes
the same passage from Theophrastus, with this addi-
tional circumstance, that, as to the second of these
disorders, to render the cure more certain, the flute
should play in the Phrygian mode. But Aulils
Gellius, who mentions this remedy, seems to adminis-
ter it in a very different manner, by prescribing to.
the flute-player a soft and gentle strain, si modulis
lenibus, says he, tibicen incinet : for the Phrygian
l
mode was remarkably vehement and furious. .
This is what Ccelius Aurelianus calls loca dolentis ·
decantare, enchanting the disordered places. He even
tells us how the enchantment is brought about upon
these occasions, in saying that the pain is relieved by
c~asing a vibration of the fibres of the afllicted part.
noise could do nothing which the modern cannot operat" as
etrectnally : and Dr. Willis in particular tells us of a lady
who could hear only while a drum was beating, in so much
that her husband, the llCcount says, hired a drummer aE.
her servant, In order to enjoy the I>leasures of her conversa··
tion.
Digi '"d by Google
., .
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 227
Galen speaks seriom~ly of playing the flute on the
suffering part, upon the principle, we suppose, of a
medicated vapour bath.
The sound of the flute was likewise a specific for
the bite of a viper, according to Theophrastus and
Democritus, whose authority Aulus Gellius gives for
his belief of the fact. But there is nothing more extra-
ordinary among the virtuee attributed to music by the
an!:ients, than what Aristotle relates in its supposed
power of softening the rigour of punishment. Tlie
Tyrhenians, says he, never scourge their slaves, b11t
by the ~ound of flutes, looking upon it as an instance
of humanity to give some. counterpoise to pain, and
thinking by such a divenion to lcsEen the sum total
.of the punishment. To this account may be added a
passage from Jul. Pallus, by which we learn, that in
the triremes, or vessels with three banks of oars, there
was always a tibicen, or flute-player, not only to
mark the time, or cadence for each stroke of the oar,
but to sooth and cheer the rowers by ·the sweetness
of the melody. And from this custom Quintilian
took occasion to say, that music is the gift of nature,
to enable Ul! the more patiently to support toil and
labour.*
These are the principal passages which antiquity •
furnishes, relative to the medicinal effects of music ;
in considering which, reliance is placed on the judg-
• Many of the ancients speak of music as a recipe Cor
every kind of malady, and ii is probable that the Latin was
prtZcinne, to charm away pain, incantare to enchant, and our
own word incantation, came from the medical use of song.
Q 2
Digi '"d by Google
228 THAUM'ATURGIA, OR
ment of M. Burette, whose opinions will come with
the more weight, as he had not only long made the
music of the ancients his particular study, but was a
physician by profession. This writer, in a disserta-
tion on the subject, has examined and discussed many
of the stories above related, concerning the effects of
music in the cure of diseases. He allows it to be pos-
sible, and even probable, that music, by reiterated
strokes and vibrations given to the nerves, fibres, and
animal spirits, may be of use in the cure of certain
diseases ; yet he by no means supposes that the music
of the ancients possessed this power in a greater
degree than the modern music, but rather that a very
coarse and vulgar music is as likely to operate effec-
tually on such occasions as the most refined and per-
.feet. The savages of America pretend to perform
these cures by the music and jargon of their imper-
fect instruments; and in Apulia, where the bite of
the tarantula is pretended to be cured by music, which
excites a desire to dance, it is by an ordinary tune,
very coarsely performed.*
Baglivi refines on the doctrine of effluvia, by as-
cribing his cures of the bite of the tarantula to the
peculiar undulation any instrument or tune makes by
its strokes in the air; which, yibrating upon the
e~ternal parts of the patient, is communicated to the
• M. Burette, with Dt·. Mead, Baglivi, and all the
learned of their time throughout Europe, seem to have enter-
tained no doubt of this fact, which, however, philosophical
und curious enquirers have since found to be built upon
fraud and fallacy. Vide Serrao, della Toronto/a o vero falan-
gio di Puglia.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS, 229
whole nervous system, and.produces that happy alte-
ration in the solids and fluids which so effectually con-
tributes to the cure. The contraction of the solids,
he says, impreS!es new mathematical motions and
directions to the fluids ; in one or both of which is
seated all distempers, and without any other help than
a continuance of faith, will alter their quality ; a phi-
losophy as wonderful and intricate as the nature of
the poison it is intended to expel; but which, how-
ever, supplies this observation, that, if the particles of
sound can do so much, the effiuvia of amulets may do
more.
Credulity must be very strong in those who be-
lieve it possible for music to drive away the pesti-
lence. Antiquity, however, as mentioned above, re-
lates that Thaletas, a famous lyric poet, contemporary
with Solon, was gifted with this power ; but it is im-
possible to render the fact credible, without qualifying
it by several circumstances omitted in the relation.
In the first place, it is certain, that this poet was re-
ceived among the Lacedemonians during the plague, by
command of an oracle : that by virtue of thie mission,
all the poetry of the hymns which be'sung, must have
consisted of prayers and supplications, in order to
avert the anger of the gods against the people, whom
he exhorted to sacrifices, expiations, purifications, and
many other acts of devotion, which, however super-
stitious, could not fail to agitate the minds of the mul-
titude, and to produce nearly the same effects as
public fasts, 'and, in catholic countries, processions, as
at present, in times of danger, by exalting the courage,
and by animating· hope. The disease having, pro-
Digi '"d by Google
230 TDAUJdATURGJA, OR
bably, reached its highest pitch of malignity when
the musician arrived, must afterwards have become
less contagious by degrees ; till, at length, ceasing of
itself, by the air wafting away the seeds of infection,
and recovering its former purity, the extirpation of
the disease was attributed by the people to the music
of Thaletas, who had been.thought the sole mediator,
to whom they owed their happy deliverance.
This is exactly what Plutarch means, who tells the
story ; and what Homer meant. in attributing the cura·
tion of the plague among the Greeks, at the siege of
Troy, to music :
With hymns divine the joyous banqut•t ends,
The P12ans lengthen•d till the sun descends :
The Greeks restor'd, the grateful.notes prolong; .
Apollo listens and approves the song.•
For the poet in thet~e lines seems only to say, that
Apollo was rendered favourable, and had delivered
the Greeks from the scourge with which they were
attacked, in consequence of Chriseis having been
restored to her father, and of sacrifices and offerin~·
M. Burette thinks it easy to conceive, that music may
be really efficacious in relieving, if not in removing,
the pains of sciatica ; and that independent of the
greater or less skill of the musician. He supposes
this may be effected in two different ways : first, by
flattering the ear, and diverting the attention; and,
secondly, by occasioning oscillations and vibrations of
the nerves, which may, perhaps, give motions to the
humours, and remove the obstructions which occasion
• Pope's translation of tbe Iliad, Book J.
Digi '"d by Google :..:..
BLUCIDA TIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS, 23i
this disorder. In this manner the action of musical
sounds upon the fibres of the brain and animal spirits,
may sometimes soften and alleviate the sufferings of
Ppileptics and lunatics, and calm even the most vio-
lent fits of these two cruel disorders. And if anti-
quity affords examples of this power, we can oppose
to them some of the same kin! said to have been
effected by music, not of the most exquisite sort.
For not only M. Burette, but many modem philoso-
phers, physicians, and anatomists, as well as ancient
poets and historians, have believed, that music has
the power of affecting, not only the mind, but the
nervous system, in such a manner as will give a tem-
porary relief in certain diseases, and, at length, even
operate a radical cure.
In the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for
1707 and 1708, we meet with many accounts of dis-
eases, which, after having resisted and bafHerl all the
most efficacious remedies in common use, had, at
length, given way to the soft impressions of harmony.
M. de Mairan, in the Memoirs of the same Aca-
demy, 1737, reasons upon the medicinal powers of
music in the following manner:-" It is from the
mechanical .and involuntary connexion between the
organ of hearing, and the consonances excited in the
outward air, joined to the rapid communication of
the vibrations of this orgsn to the whole nervous
system, that we owe the cure of spasmodic dis-
orders, and of fevers attended with a delirium and
convulsions, of which our Memoirs furnish many ex-
amples."
The late learned Dr. Branchini, professor of physic
Digi '"d by Google
232 THAUMATUROlA, OR.
at Udine, collected all the passages preserved in an-
cient authors, relative to the medicinal application of
music, by Asclepiades ; and it appears from this
work that it was used as a remedy by the ancient
Egyptians, Hebrews,. Greeks, and Romans, not only
in acute, but chronical disorders. This writer
gives several cases"within his own knowledge, in
which music has been efficacious; but the considera-
tion as well as the honour of these, more properly
belong to modern than to ancient music.
Music, of all arts, gives the most universal plea-
sure, and pleases longest and oftenest. Infants are
charmed with the melody of sounds, and old age is
animated by enlivening notes. The Arcadian shep-
herds drew pleasure from their reeds ; the solitude of
Achilles was cheered by his lyre; the English pea-
sant delights in his pipe and tabor ; the mellifl.uous
notes of the flute solace many an idle hour ; and the
charming ofsnakes and other venomous reptiles, by the
power of music, is well attested among the Indians.
" Music and the sounds of instruments," says Vigneul
de Marville, " contribute to the health ofthe body and
mind ; they assist the circulation of the blood, they
di88ipate vapours, and open the ve88els, so that the
action of perspiration is freer." The same author
tells a story of a person of distinction, who assured
him, that once being suddenly seized with a violent
illness, instead of a consultation of physicians, he
immediately called a band of musicians, and their
violins acted so well upon his inside, that his bowels
beeame perfectly in tune, and in a few hours were
harmoniously becalmed.
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIOSS 01' THB MARVELLOUS. 233
Farinelli, the famous singer, was sent for to
Madrid to try the effect of his magical voice on the
king of Spain. His Majesty was absorbed in the
deepest melancholy ; nothing could excite an emotion
in him; he lived in a state of total oblivion of life ;
he sat in a darkened chamber, entirely given up to
the most distressing kind ofmadness. The physicians
at first ordered Farinelli to sing in an outer room ; and
for the first day or two this was done, without pro-
ducing any effect on the royal patient. At length it
was observed, that the king, awakening from his stu-
por, seemed to listen ; on the next day tears were
seen starting from his eyes : the day after he ordered
the door ofhis chamber to be left open, and at length
the pertuTbed spirit entirely left our modern Saul, and
the medicinal music of Farinelli effected what medi-
cine itself had denied.
"After food," says Sir William Jones,• "when
the operations of digestion and absorption gives so
much employment to the vessels, that a temporary
state of mental repose, especially in hot climates,
must be found essential to health, it seems reasonable
to believe that a few agreeable airs, either heard or
played without effort, must have all the good effects
of sleep, and none of its disadvantages; putting, as
Milton says, ' the soul in tune' for any subsequent ex-
ertion ; an experiment often made by myself. I have
been assured by a credible witness, that two wild an-
telopes often used to come from their woods to the
place where a more savage beast, Serajuddaulah, en-
• See a curious Dissertation on the musical modea of the
Hlndoos by Sir W. Jones.
234 THAUMATURGIA, OR
tertained himself with concerts, and that they list-
ened to the strains with the appearance of pleasure,
till the monster, in whose soul there was no music,
shot one of them to display his archery." A learned
native told Sir William Jones that he had frequently
seen the most venomous snakes leave their holes upon
hearing tunes on a flute, which, as he supposed, gave
them peculiar delight.
Of the surprising effects of music, the two follow-
ing instances, with which we shall close these re-
marks, are related in the history of the Royal
Academy of Society of Paris.
A famous musician, and great composer was taken
ill of a fever, which assumed the continued form,
with a gradual increase of the symptoms. On the
second day he fell into a very violent delirium, al-
most constantly accompanied by cries, tears, terrors,
and a perpetual watchfulness. The third day of his
delirium one of those natural instincts, which make,
as it is said, sick animals seek out for the herbs that
are proper to their case, set him upon desiring ear.
nestly to hear a little concert iii his chamber. His
physician could hardly be prevailed upon to consent
to it. On hearing the first modulations, the air of
his countenance became serene, his eyes sparkled with
a joyfulalacrity, his convulsions absolutely ceased, he
shed tears of pleasure, and was then possessed for
music with a sensibility he never before had, nor
after, when he was recovered. He had no fever du-
ring the whole concert, but, when it was over, he
relapsed into his former condition.
The fever and delirium were always suspended du-
:ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS, 235
ring the concert, and music was become so necessary
to the patient, that at night he obliged a female re-
lation who sometimes sat up with him, to sing and
even to dance, and who, being much affiicted, was
put to great difficulty to gratify him. One night,
among others, he had none but his nurse to attend
him, who could sing nothing better than some
wretched country ballads. He was satisfied to put up
with that, and he even found some benefit from it.
At last ten days of music cured him entirely, without
other assistance than of being let blood in the foot,
which was the second bleeding that was prescribed
for him, and was followed by a copious evacuation.
This account was communicated to the Academy
by M. Dodart, who had it well authenticated.
The second instance of the extraordinary effect of
music is related of a dancing-master of Alais, in the
province ofLanguedoc. Being once over-fatigued in
Carnival time by the exercise of his profession, he
was seized with a violent fever, and on the fourth
or fifth day, fell into a lethargy, which continued
upon him for a considerable time. On recovering
he was attacked with a furious and mute delirium, .
wherein he made continual efforts to jump.out of bed,
threatened, with a shaking head and angry counte-
nance, those who attended him, and even all that were
present ; and he besides obstinately refused, though
without speaking a word, all the remedies that were
presented to him, One of the assistants bethought
himself that music perhaps might compose a dis-
ordered imagination. He accordingly proposed it to
his physician, who did not disapprove the thought,
Digi '"d by Google
~36 THAUIIATU&OIA, OR
but feared with good reason the ridicule of the exe-
cution which might still have been infinitely greater,
if the patient should happen to die under the opera-
tion of such a remedy.
A friend of the dancing master, who seemed to
di.aregard the caution of the physician, and who could
play on the violin, seeing that of the patient hanging
up in the chamber, laid hold of it, and played directly
for him the air most familiar to him. He was cried
out against more than the patient who· lay in bed,
confined in a 11traight jacket; and some were ready to
make him desist ; when the patient, immediately sit-
ting up u a man agreeably surprised, attempted to
caper with his arms in unison with the mu,ic ; and on
his arms being held, he evinced, by the motion ofhis
head, the pleuure he felt. Sensible, however, of the
effects of the violin, he was suffered by degree~~ to
yield to the movement he was desirous to periorm,-
when, strange u it may appear, hisfurious fits abated. '
In short, in the space of a quarter of an honr, the
patient fell into a profound !leep, and a salutary
crisis in the interim rescued him from all danger•
..
:KLUCIDATI_DXS OF' THE MARVELLOUS. 237
CHAPTER XV.
l'RBSAOEB, PRODIGKS, PRRSKNTlMBNTS, RTC.
Ts B common opinion of comets being the presages
of evil is an old pagan superstition, introduced and
entertained among Christians by their prejudice for
antiquity ; and which Mr. Bayle says is a remnant
0 f pagan superstition, conveyed from father to son,
ever since the first conversion from paganism ; as
well because it has taken deep root in the minds of
men, as because Christians, generally speaking, are
as far gone in the folly of finding presages in every
thing, as infidels themselves. It may be easily
conceived how the pagans might be brought sted-
fastly to believe that comets, eclipses, and thunder-
storm!!, were the forerunners of calamities, when
man's strong· inclination for the marvellous is consi-
dered, and his insatiable curiosity for prying into
future e"\"ents, or what is to come to pass. This de-
sire of peeping into futurity, has as already been
shown, has given birth to a thousand different
kinds of divination, all alike whimsical and imper-
tinent, which in the hands of the more expert
and cunning have been made most important and
238 THACMATURGIA, OR
mysterious tools. When any one has been rogue
enough to think of making a peuny of the simplicity
of his neighbours, and has had the ingenuity to
invent something to amuse, the pretended faculty of
foretelling things to come, has always been one of the
readiest projects. From hence always the assump·
tion of judiciary astrology. Those who first began
to consult the motions of the heavens, had no other
design in view than the enriching their minds with
so noble a knowledge ; and as they had their genius
bent on the pursuit of useful knowledge, they never
dreamed of converting astrology or a knowledge of the
stars to the purpose of picking the pockets of the cre-
dulous and ignorant, of whose blind'side advantage wu ·
taken by these sideral sages to turn them to account by
making them believe that the doctrine of the stal'l
comprehended the knowledge of all things that were.
or are, or ever shall be ; eo that every one, for hia
money, might come to them and have their fortUJlCI·
told.
The better to gull the world, the Star-gazers assert.
that the heavens are the book in which God has writ··'
ten the destiny of all things; and that it is only-
necessary to learn to read this book, which is simply
the construction of the stars; to be able to know the.
whole history of what is to come to pass. Very
learned men, Origen and Plotinus among the rest;,
were let into the secret, and grew so fond of it, that :
the former,* willing to support his opinion by some-l
thing very solid, catches at the authority of an Apo-
• _Euseb. Praep. Evang. 1. 6. c. 9.
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVELLOUS. 239
cryphal book, ascribed to the patriarch Joseph,
whereJacob is introduced speaking to his twelve sons:
" I have read in the register of heaven what shall
happen to you and your children."* But comets
were the staple commodity that turned principally to
account. In compliance, however, with the impres-
sions of fear which the strangeness and excessive
length of these stars made upon mankind, the Astro-
logers did not hesitate to pronounce them of a malign
' tendency; and the more so when they found they
had, by this means, made themselves in some degree
. necessary, in consequence of the impatient applica-
tions that were made to them as from the mouth of
an oracle, what particular disaster such and such a
comet portended.
Eclipses furnished more frequent occasions for the
: exercise of their talent. From this worthy precedent
'·oe Judicial Astrology, others took the hint and in-
; vented new .modes of divi.nation, such as Geomancy,
;· Chiromancy, Onomancy, and the like; till the world
by degrees became so overrun with superstition, that
~ the least trifle was converted into a presage or pre-
Bentiment ; and the more so when this kind of know-
ledge became the business of religion ; and when the
substance of divine worship consisted in the ordinan-
ces of Augurs who, to make themselves necessary in
the world, were obliged to keep up and quicken men's
apprehensions of the wrath of God, took special care
to cultivate comets, and bring it into a proverb, that
• Legi in tabulis creli qulllcun'lue contingent vobis et
Ftiiis vestria.
.240 TP.AU:liATl1RGIA, OR
''so many comets so many calamities." They knew,
as Livy expresses it, that it was best to fish in trou·
bled waters, where, speaking of a contagious dis·
temper, which, from the country villages, spread over
the city, occasioned by an extraordinary drought in
the year of Rome 326, he observes how, at last, it
infected the mind,* by the management of those who
lived in the superstition of the people ; so that no·
thing was to be seen orheard except some new fangled
ceremony or other in every comer. "The devil,"
as Bayle says, " who had a hopeful game on't, and
saw superstition the surest way to get himself wor·
shipped under the name of the false gods, in a hun·
dred various ways; all criminal and abominable in the
sight of the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth, never
f11iled, on the appearance of any rare meteor, or un· ,
common star, to exert his imposing arts, and make
idolators believe, they were the signs of divine wrath,
aud that they were all undone unless they appeased
their gods by sacrifices of men and brute beasts."
Politicians have also lent a helping hand to give
presages a reputation, as an ex_cellent scheme, either
to intimidate the people, or to raise their drooping
spirits. Had the Roman soldiers been free thinkers,
Drusus, the son of Tiberius, had not been so fortunate
as to quell a desperate mutiny among the legions of '
Pannonia, who utterly refused to obey his commands; ,
but an eclipse, which critically intervened, broke their ,
" Nee corpora modo atrecta tabo, sed :mimos quoque!
multiplex religio, et pleraque externa invasit, novos ritns sal
crificando vnticinandoquc, inferentibus in domos, . quib
quBlstui suot capti superstitione animi. L. 4, (lee. 1. ·
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF TBB MABVBLLOUS, 24l•
refractory spirits to such a degree, that Drusus, who
managed their panic fear with great dexterity and
address, did what he liked with them.
An eclipse of the moon put the army of Alexander
the Great into such a conlltemation, some days before
the battle of Arbela, that the soldiers, under the im-
preesion that heaven was against them, were very
reluctant to advance ; and their devotion turning to
downright disobedience, Alexander commanded the
. Egyptian astrologers, who were the deepest versed in
the mystery of the stars, to give their opinions of this
eclipse in the preeence of all the officers of his army.
Without giving themselves much trouble to explain
tbe physical cause which it was their interest to con-
ceal from the .people, the wise men declared that the
Bliii was on the side of the Grecians, and the moon
for the Persians ; and that this planet was never in an
eclipse, but it threatened them with some mighty dis-
: of this they quoted several ancient examples
the kings of Persia, who, after an eclipse, had
always found their gods unpropitious in the day of
"Nothing," says Quintus Curtius,* " is so
~ICII~ectuw as superstition for keeping the vulgar under.
Be they ever so unruly and inconstant, if once their
minds are possessed with the vain visions of religion,
they are all obedience to the soothsayer, whatever
becomes of the general." The answer of the Egyp-
ian astrologers being circulated among the soldiers,
Jestored their confidence and their courage.
On another occasion Alexander, just before he
• Tacit. Annal. lib. 1, et ib. 4, cap. 10.
R
l Digi '"d by Google
U2 TBAIJ'MATUJlGIA, OJl
paaeed the river Granicus, observing the circumstance
of time, which was the month Desius, reckoned unfor-
tunate to the Macedonians from all antiquity, it made
the soldiers melancholy ; he immediately ordered this
dangerous month to be called by the name of that
which preceded it, well knowing what power and in-
ftuence vain religious scruples have over little and ig-
norant minds. He sent private orders to Aristander
his chief soothsayer, just offering up a sacrifice for a
happy passage, to write on the liver of the victim
with a liquor prepared for that purpose, that the gods
hai:l " granted the victory to Alexander.'' The notice
of this miracle filled the men with invincible ardour ;
and now they rent the air with acclamations, exclaim-
ing that the day was their own, since the gods had
vouchsafed them snch plain demonstrations of their
favour. The history, indeed, of this mighty con-
queror, affords more such examples of artifice, though
he always affected to conquer by mere dint of bravery.
But what is still more extraordinary, this very hero,
who palmed so often such tricks upon others, was
himselfcaught in his turn, as being well as exceedingly
superstitious by fits. We say nothing ofThemistocles,*
who, in the war between Xerxes and the Athenians.
despairing to prevail upon his countrymen by force of
reasoning to quit their city, and betake themselves to
sea, set all the engines of religion to work ; forged
oracles, and procured the priests to circulate among
the people, that Minerva had fled from Athens, and
had taken the way which led to the port. Philip of
• Plutarch in bia lifll.
Digi '"d by Google
- - _ j
ELUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVELLOUS, 243
Macedon, whose talent loy in conquering his enemies
by good intelligence, purchased at any price, had as
many oracles at command as he pleased; and hence
'Demosthenes justly suspecting too good an under-
standing between Philip and the Delphian priestess,·
rallied her with so much acrimony upon her partiality
to that prince. It is equally obvious how the same
reasons of state, which kept up the popular supersti-
tion for other prodigies, should take care to encourage
it with regard to comets and other celestial appear-
ance!!.
Panegyrists have also done their parts to promote
the superstition of presages, as well as the flattering
of poets and orator~. When a hero is to be found
and extolled, they exclaim, that all nature adores !tim ;
that she e:rerts her utmost powers to serve /lim ; that
,he mourns at his misfortunes, promises him long before
lwnd to tlte world; and when the world, by its sins, is
wnv:orthy to posses's him longer, keaven, which calls him
home, hangs out new lights, etc. With this hyperbole
M. Balzac regaled Cardinal Richelieu, adding, that
to form such a minister, universal nature was on the
stretch: God gives him first by promise, and makes
him the ezpectation of ages. For this he was attacked
by the critics, but he defended himself; alleging,
that other panegyrics had gone 'l!ome notes higher :
he, for example, among the ancients, who said of
certain great souls that all the orders of heaven were
called together to fancy a fine destiny for them, and
that illustrious nation who wrote that the eternal mind
10as wrapt in deep contemplation, and big with the vast
design, when it conceived such a genius as Cardinal
R2
Digi '"d by Google
2U TBA17!11ATURGI .l, .OR
Hippolilo tl'E•te. Why could not this same writerhave
thought of one example more, such as that of the
priest who told the Emperor Constantine that divi11t
Providnace, .1101 collteflt IDitA qvo.lifying Aimfor tie em-•
'f'ire of tie ttJorld, lladfomted virt111es ita Ais sotd, 10AicA
6hould entitle Aim to reigrc ita Aeaven toitA Ais only sOK.
Thus have flatterers seized the most surprising natural
effects to enhance their hero's glory, and make their
court to great men. The poets ofthe time ofAngus·
tus vied with each other in persuading the world
that the murder of Julius Cresar was the cause of all
the prodigies that followed. Horace, for instance, in
one of his odes, attempts to prove that the overfiow-
ings of rivers were reckoned among bad presages;
and pretends that the Tiber had not committed all
those ravages, but in complaisance to his wife Ilia,
who was bent on the death of his kinsman Cresar;
and that all the other calamities which subsequently
ailicted or threatened the Roman empire, were the
conBequences of his assassination. If Virgil may be
credited,"' the sun was so troubled at the death of
Cresar that it went into deep mourning, and so
obscured his beams, that the world .was alarmed lest
it never should appear again. In the mean time, no
sooner was the comet observed, which followed this
·murder, than anotJwr set of flatterers pretended that
it was Cllll!ar's soul "!'eccived into the order of the
Gods; and they dedicated a templet to the comet,
and set up the image of Cresar with a star on his ,
forehead.
• Georg. I. I. t Suetonius in vit11 Cesari1.
I
I
l
JILUCIDATION8 OF THJI MAllVBLLOU8, 245
It appeal'!! from the sermons of the ancient fathers,
that the Christians of that time bt>lieved they gave
great relief to the moon in an eclipse, by raising
hideoas shouts to the skies, which they imagined re-
oovered her out of her fainting fit, and without which-
she must inevitably have expired. St. Ambrose, the
author of the 215th sermon de tempore, bound up
with those of St. Austin, and St. Eloy, Bishop of
Noyon, declaim particularly against this abuse. It
appears also from the Homilies of St. Chrysostom,
St. Basil, St. Austin, and others, that the Christiana
of their days drew several kinds of presages from per-
!Oils sneezing at critical times ; from meeting a cat, a
dog, or an ill-looking (aquinting) woman, a maiden,
one blind of an eye, or a cripple; on being caught by
the cloak on stepping out of a door, or from a sudden
catch in one's joint or limb.
St. Eloy tells his people plainly, that whoever pays
attention to what he mE:ets at his first going out or
.ooming in, or to any particular voice, or to the chirp-
ing of a bird, is so far a Pagan. Indeed, all these,
and innumerable others of the same description of su-
perstitions among Christians, are remnants of ancient
paganism ; as they have been denounced by the cen-
sures of popes, provincial councils, synodical decrees,
and other grave authorities. And, though there were
not such a cloud of witnesses, there would be no diffi-
culty in proving the disease of pagan origin. For,
independent of those who preached the gospel of
our Saviour, having never promulgated such notions,
we learn from several ancient authorities, that the
Gentiles had all these superstitions in the highest re-
---~tt· • ~. ·.- .· .t.
246 THAUMATUROIA, OR
gard. It WM one general opinion among them, that
the eclipses of the moon were the consequence of cer-
tain magic words by which sorcerers could wrench her
from the skies, and drag her near enough the earth to
cast a frothy epittle on their herbs-one of the prin-
cipal ingredients in their incantations. To rescue the
moon from the supposed torture she was in, and to
frustrate the charm, it was necessary to prevent her
from hearing the magic words, by drowning in noise
and hideous outcries, for which purpose the people
used to assemble during an eclipse of the ~oon with
rough music, such as frying pans, brazen vessels, old
tin kettles, etc. According to Pietro della Vaile, the
Persians keep up the same ridiculous ceremony to
this day. It is likewise, according to Tavernier, ob-
served in the kingdom of Tunquin, where they ima-
gine the moon to be, at that time, struggling with a
dragon. It is to the same source that we owe the
imaginary raging heat of the dog-star-'-the pretended
presages of several evils ascribed to eclipses, and all
the allusions of astrology.
In a treatise written by Abogard, Bishop of Lyons,
in 833, composed to undeceive a world of people, who
were persuaded that there were enchanters who could
command thunder, and hail, and tempest, to destroy
the fruits of the earth ; and that t~ey drove a great
trade by this mystery with the people of a certain
country called Magonia, who came once a year, sail-
ing in large fleets through the air, to freight with the
blighted corn, for which they paid down ready money
to the enchanters. So little was this matter doubted,
that one day the bishop had enough to do to save three
Digi '"d by Google
•
ELUCIDATIONS OP THB IIAKl"&LLO&il. 2t 7
men and a woman from being !toned to death, the
people insisting they bad jast fallen o\·erboard from
one of these aerial ship!.
We do not here examine whether, in those days,
the people literally were more superstitious and credu-
lo118 than in the days of paganism. It is enough to
say, that they were of very easy belief; and hence
men began to write their histories in the style of
romance, mixing up a thousand fables witn the
deeds of great men, I!Uch as Roland, nephew to
Charle~e; which !0 suited the taste of the age,
that no book would afterwards go down in any other
etyle-witnel!8, for instance, the Manual of Devo-
tions by James de Voragine, archbishop of Genoa,
composed towards the latter end of the thirteenth
eentury ; and in which Melchior Canus, a learned
Spanish bishop, is so scandalized in his eleventh book
of Common Places. Another doctor of divinity,•
speaking of the depraved state of the times, says,
"It was the error, or rather folly, of some of the an-
cients, to think, that in writing the actions of illustri-
ousmen, the ..e must sink, unlei!S theymixed up with
it the ornaments, for so they called them, of poetical
fiction, or something of this sort; and, consequently,
thll8 blended truth with fable." This being the pre-
vailing fashion of the times, we are inclined to believe,
that in the histories of the crusades, many apocryphal
subjects are introduced, which ought, con!!equently,
to be read cum grano salis. This is decidedly the
• Petleua, in Galfredo Mooimeteoai.
Digi '"d by Google
248 TBAUIIATtraOIA, 0&
opinion of Pere Maimbourg,• who, after the relation
of the battle of Jconium, won by Frederick of Barba·
rossa, 1190, says, "What was chiefly wonderful after
this battle, was the conqueror's sustaining little or no
1088, which most people ascribed to the particular pro·
tection of St. Victor and St. George, names oftenest
invoked in the Christian army, which many of them
said they saw engaging at the head of the squadrons.
Whether in reality there might be something in it ex·
traordinary, which has often happened, as the Scrip-
tures inform us; or whether, by often hearing of
celestial squadrons appearing at the battle of Antioch
in the first crusade, warm imaginations poeeesaed
with the belief, and penetrated with these ideas,
formed new apparitions of their own, but sure it is,
that one Louis Helfenstein, a gentleman of reputation,
and far from a visionary,affirmed to the emperor,on his
oath, and on the vow of a pilgrim devoted to the holy
sepulchre and the crusade, that he often saw St. George
cltarge at the head of the squadroti.B, andput the enemy
to flight; which was afterwards confirmed by the
Turks themselves, owning that they A some troops
in white charge in the first .ranks in the Christian
army, though there were really none of that livery.
No one, I know, is bound (continues P. Maimbourg)
to believe visions of this kind, subject for the most
part to notorious illusion : but I know too, that an
historian ill not of his own authority, to reject them,•
especiaJly when supported by such remarkable testi-
• Hiat, Crusade, I. 6.
' I
BLUCIDATIOMS OJ' THB JUBVELLOUS. 249
mony. And though he be at liberty to belie,·e
or not, yet he has no regret, by suppressing them,
to deprive the reader of his liberty, when he meets
with passages of this kind, of judging as he thinks
fit." This reflection (says Bayle) from so celebrated
an historian, not suspected of favouring the Hugonot
incredu1ity, is a strong presumption on my side.
The abase of presentiments has been oarried to the
very Scriptures. We are told, that the manner of
Tamerlane giving his blessing to his two sons, by
bowing down the head of the elder, and chucking the
youngest under the chin, was a presage of the eleva-
tion of the latter in prejudice to the former, was
grounded 'on the -tSth c:hapter of Genesis, where
Jacob is represented laying his right hand on the head
of the younger, forseeing by inspiration that he would ,
be the greater of the two. Meanwhile there is a dif-
ference between the two benedictions. The Tartar,
wholly destitute of the knowledge of future events,
did not diversify the motion of his hands, on purpose
to establish a presage ; and God never vouchsafing
this knowledge to infidels, did not guide his hands in
aparticular manner to form a presage of what should
belal his children ;-whereas Jacob, on the contrary,
filled with the spirit of prophecy, whereby he saw the
fortunes of his children, directed his words and ac-
tions according to this knowledge ; by which means
both became presages.
Presages, presentiments, and prodigies, might be
multiplied ad infinitum. Whoever reads the Roman
historians will be surprised at their number. and
which frequently filled the people with the moat
250 TIIAUMATl'RGIA, OR
dreadful apprehensions. It must be confessed, that
some of these seem altogether supernatural ; while
much the greater part only consist of some of the
uncommon productions of nature, which superstition
always attributed to a superior cause, and represented
as the prognostications of some impending misfor·
tunes. Of this class may be reckoned the appearance
of two suns;* the nights illuminated by rays of
light ; the views of fighting armies ; swords and
spears darting through the air; showers of milk, of
blood, of stones, of ashes, or of fire ; and the birth of
monsters, of children, or of beasts who had two heads ;
or of infants who had some feature resembling those
of the brute creation. These were all dreadful prodi-
gies which filled the people with inexpressible asto-
nishment, and the whole Roman empire with an ex-
treme perplexity ; and whatever unhappy event fol-
lowed, repentance was sure to be either caused or pre-
dicted by them.
• Nothing is more easy than to account for theae produc-
tions, which have no relation to any eventa, no more than
cometa, that may happen to follow them. The appearance of
two suns has frequently happened in England, as well as in
other places, and is only caused by the clouds being placed in
such a situation as to reflect the image of that luminary ;
nocturnal tires, inflamed spears, fighting armies, were no more
than what we call aurora borealis, northern lighta, or inflamed
vapou!'s floating in the air; showers of stones, of ashes, or of
tire, were no other than the effects of the eruptions of some
volcano at a considerable distance. Showers of milk were
only caused by some quality in the air condensing and giving
a whitish colour to the water, etc.
Digi '"d by Google
,.....
•
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' THE MAEV&LLOUS. 2!> 1
CHAPTER XVI.
PHBNOM.KNA OF METEORS, OPTIC DELUSIONS,
SPECTRA, BTCo
Tua meteors known to the ancients were called
Auf'7r8t~ ITt6ot Bolides, Faces, Globi, etc. from par-
ticular differences in their shape and appearance,
and sometimes under the general term of comets. In
the Philosophical Transactions, they are called, indis-
criminately, fire-balls, or fiery meteors; and names
of similar import have been applied to them in the
di1ferent languages of Europe. The most material
circumstances observed of such meteors may be
brought under the following heads : 1. Their general
appearance. 2. Their path. 3. Their shape or figure.
4. Their light and colour. 5. Their height. 6. The
noise with which they are accompanied. 7. Their fire.
b. Duration, g. Their velocity. Under these different
heads meteors have been investigated by the scrutiniz-
ing of philosophy, and many superstitious notions, long
entertained concerning them, entirely exploded. Mete-
oric phenomena, it has been demonstrated, all pro-
Digi '"d by Google
252 THAUIUTU&OIA, OR
ceed from one common cause- irregularity in the
density of the atmosphere. When the atmospheric
ftuid is homogenous and of equal density, the rays of
light pass without obstruction or alteration in their
shape or direction : but when they enter from a rarer
into a denser medium, they are refracted or bent out
of their course : and this with greater or less ef-
fect according to the different degrees ofdensity in the
media, or the deviation of the ray from the perpendi·
cular. If the second medium be very dense in pro-
portion, the ray will be both refracted and reftected:
and the object from which it proceeds, will assume a
vatiety of grotesque and extraordinary shapes, and
it will sometimes appear as in a reftection from a con·
cave mirror, dilated in size, and changed in situation.
The following striking effects are known to pro·
ceed from this simple cause.
The first is the mirage, seen in the desert of Africa.
M. Monge, a member of the National Institute, ac-
companied the French army into Egypt. In the desert,
between Alexandria and Cairo, the mirage of the blue
aky was inverted, and so mingled with the sand below,
as to impart to the desolate and arid wilderness an ap-
pearance of the most rich and beautiful country.
They saw, in all directions, green islands, surrounded
with extensive lakes of pure and transparent water.
Nothing could be conceived more lovely and pic-
turesque than this landscape. On the tranquil surface
of the lakes, the trees and houses, with which the
islands were covered, were strongly reftected with
vivid hues, and the party hastened forward to enjoy
the cool refreshments of shade and stream, which
Digi '"d by Google
ELUfiDATIOlSS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 253
these populous villages proferred to them. When
they arrived, the lake, on whose bosom they floated,
the trees, among whose foliage they were embowered,
and the people who stood on the shore inviting their
approach, had all vanished, and nothing remained but
an uniform and irksome desert of sand and sky, with
afew naked huts and ragged shrubs. Had they not
been undeceived by their nearer .approach, there was
not a ruan in the French army who would qot have
sworn, that. the visionary trees and lakes had a real
existence in the midst of the desert.
The same appearance precisely was observed by
Dr. Clarke at Raschid, or Rosetta. The city seemed
surrounded by a beautiful sheet of water, and so cer-
tain was his Greek interpreter, who was acquainted
with the country, of this fact, that he was quite in-
dignant at an Arab, who attempted to explain to him,
that it was a mere optical delusion. At length, they
reached Rosetta in about two hours, without meeting
any water ; and, on looking back on the sand they
had just crossed, it seemed to them, as if they had
jflSt waded through a vast blue lake.
A similar deception takes place in northern cli-
mates. Cities, battlements, houses, and all the ac-
companiments of populous places, are seen in deso-
late regions, where life goes out, and where human
foot has never trod. When approached they vanish,
and nothing remains but a rugged rock, or a mis-
thapen iceberg. •
Captain Scoresby, in his voyage to the arctic re•
gions, on the coast of East Greenland, constantly saw
those visionary cities, and gives some highly curious
254 TBAUMATURGU., OR
plates of the appearances they preeented. They
resembled the real cities seen on the coast of Holland,
where towers, and battlements, and spires, " bosomed
high in tufted trees," rise on the level horizon, and
are seen floating on the surface of the sea. Among
the optic deceptions noticed by Captain Scoresby, was
one of a very singular nature. His ship had been
separated by the ice, from that of his father for some
time ; and he was looking for her every day, with
great anxiety. At length, one evening, to his utter
astonishment, he saw her suspended in the air in an
inverted position, traced on the horizon in the clear·
est colours, and with the most distinct and perfect
representation. He sailed in the direction in which
he saw this visionary phenomenon, and actually found
his father's vessel by its indication. He was divided
from him by immense masses of icebergs, and at such
a distance that it was quite impossible to have seen
the ship in her actual situation, or seen her at all, if
her spectrum, or image, had not been thus raised se-
veral degrees above the horizon into the sky, by this
most extraordinary refraction, in the same manner as
the sun is often seen, after he is known to have set,
and actually sunk far below the line ofdirect vision.
The Fata Morgana are further illustrations of this
optic delusion. This phenomenon is seen at the
Pharo of Messina, in Sicily, under certain circum·
stances. The spectator must stand with his back to
1
the east, 011 an elevated place behind the city, com·
manding a view of the bay, and having the moun·
tains, like a wall, opposite to him, to darken the back I
ground of the picture ; no wind must be abroad to
I
I
.ELUCIDAnONS OJP TBB IIAJ.VBLLOUS. 255
ruffle the surface of the eea ; and the waters mul!t be
pre!!sed up by cu.rrentll, as they sometimes are, to a
considerable height in the middle of the strait, and
present a slight convex surface. When all the!e
circumstances occur, as soon as the sun rises O'\"er
the heights of the Calabrian shore, and makes an
angle of (5° with the horizon, all the objects on the
shore at .Reggio are transferred to the middle of the
strait, and seen distinctly on the surface of the water,
forming an immoveable landscape of rock!, trees, and
honses, and a moveable one of men, horses, and
cattle ; these are formed into a thousand separate
compartmentll, presenting most beautiful and ever
varying pictures of animate and inanimate nature, on
the swelling surface of the water, broken by the cur-
rents, present separate plates of convex mirrors to
retlect them; they then as suddenly disappear, as the
broad aquatic mirror ofthe current passes on.
Sometimes the atmosphere is so dense that the
objects are seen, like Captain Scoresby's ship,
matched up into the regions of the air, thirty or forty
feet above the level of the sea ; and in cloudy wea-
ther, nearer to the surface, bordered with vivid pris-
matic colours. Sometimes colonades of temples and
churches, with cross-crowned spires, are all repre-
sented all floating on the sea, and by a sudden change
of representation, the pillars are curved into arcades,
and the crosses are bent into crescents, and all the
edifices of the floating city undergo the most extra-
ordinary and fantastic mutations. All these images
are so distinct, and produce objects seemingly as
palpable as they are visible, as sensible to touch as to
Digi '"d by Google
256 THAUMATURGIA , Oil
aight, that the people of the country are firmly per·
suaded of their reality. They consider the edifices as
the enchanted palaces of the fairy Morgana, and the
moving objects as living things which inhabit them.
Whenever the optic phenomenon occurs, they meet
together in crowds, with an intense curiosity, mixed
with awe and apprehension, which is not removed by
an acquaintance with those natural causes, by which
Mr. Swinbum and other foreign travellers, who-have
witnessed the scene, are able to account for it.
The lakes of Ireland are equally susceptible of pro-
ducing those vivid delusions, and the imagination of
the people, as lively as that of the Sicilians, clothes
them with an equal reality. There is scarcely a loch
in that country, in which the remains of cities have
not been at various times discovered ; and many men
have been met with who would solemnly swear they
saw, and who no doubt did see, representations of
them in certain states of the atmosphere. The most
celebrated is that which occurs on the lake of Kil-
larney. This romantic sheet of water is bounded on
one side by a semi·circle of rugged mountains, and on
the other by a flat morass, and the vapour generated
in the mass, and broken by the mountains, continually
represent the most fantastic objects ; and often those
on shore are trantfeued to the water, like the Fata
Morgana.
Many of the rocks are distinguished for their
marked and lengthened echoes, and the structure,
which in acoustics reflects sounds to the ear, fron1
a point from whence they did not come, reflects
images on the eye, from a place very different frotn
Digi '"d by Google
--
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' THB IUB.VBLLOUS. 257
where the objects stood which produced them. Fre-
quently men riding along shore, are seen as if they
were moving across the lake, and this has given rise to
the story of O'Donougho. This celebrated chieftain
was, according to the tradition of the country, en-
dued with the gift of magic; and, on one occasion,
his lady requested him to change his shape, that she
might see a proof of it. He complied, on condition
that she would not be terrified, as such an effect on
her must prove fatal to him. Her mind failed her,
however, in the experiment, and at the sight of some
horrible figure he assumed, she shrieked, and he dis-
appeared through the window of his castle, which
overhuug the lake. From that time he continues an
enchanted being, condemned to ride a horse, shod
with silver, over the surface of the lake, till his
horse's shoes are worn out. On every May morn-
ing he is visible, and crowds assemble on the shore to
see him. Many affirm they have seen him ; and one
person relates many particulars of his apparition, that
the deception must have proceeded from some real
object, a man riding along shore, and transferred to
the middle of the water, by the optic delusion of the
Fata Morgana.
But perhaps the most wonderful, and apparently
preternatural effect arising from this cause, is the
1pectre of the Hartz Mountains in Hanover. There
is one particular hill, called the Brocken, in which
he appears, terrifying the credulous, and gratify-
ing the curious to a very high degree. The most
distinct and interesting account is given by Mr.
Hawe, who himself was a witness to it, He hall
8
258 TBAUMATURGIA, OR
climbed to the top of the mountai~ thirty times, and
had been disappointed, but he persevered, and was at
length highly gratified. The sun rose about four
o'clock in a serene sky, free from clouds, and its rays
passed without obstruction, over another mountain,
called the Heinschoe. About a quarter past five he
looked round to see if the sky was clear, and if
there was any chance of his witnessing what he so
ardently wished, when suddenly he saw the Aehter-
manshoe, a human figure of monstrous size turned
towards him, and glaring at him. While gazing
on this gigantic spectre with wonder mixed with
an irrepressible feeling of awe and apprehension, a
sudden gust of wind nearly carried off his own hat,
and he clapped his hand to his head to detain it, when
to his great delight the colossal spectre did the same.
He then changed his body into a variety of attitudes,
aU which the figure exactly imitated, but at length
suddenly vanished without any apparent cause, and
again as suddenly appeared. He called the land-
lord of the inn, who had accompanied him, to stand
beside him, and in a little time two correspondent
figures, of dilated size, appeared on the opposite
mountain. They saluted them in various ways by
different movements of their bodies, all which the
giants returned with perfect polit;ne88, and then va-
ni8hed. A traveller now joined Mr. Hawe and the
innkeeper, and they kept steadily looking for their
aerial friends, when they suddenly appeared again
three in number, who all performed exactly the same
movements as their correspondent spectators. Having
continued thus for some time, appearing and disap-
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF TBB JIAllVBLLOUB. 259
pearing alternately, sometimes faintly, and sometimes
more distinct, they at length faded away not again to
return. They proved. however, that the preterna-
tural spectre, which had so long filled the country
with awe and terror, was no unreal being, still less
an existence whose appearance suspended the or<ll-
nary laws of God and Nature; that, on the contrary,
it was the !!imple production of a common cause,
exhibited in an unusual manner, but as regular an
elf'ect, and as easy to be accounted for, as the reflec-
tion of a face in a looking glass.
This constitution of the atmosphere, and its capabi-
lity of dilating4>bjects, and altering their position by
reflection 'llnd refraction, will easily account for many
phenomena which have been considered miraculous
and preternatural in early ages, by the ignorant ; and
in our own, by the weak and superstitious. Such was
probably the origin of the crosses seen by Constan-
tine and Constantius in the first ages of Christianity,
and such was that of the cross which appeared in the
sky in France, to which so many bore attestation. .1\.
large eros!! of wood, painted red, had been erecteq
beside the church, as a part of the ceremony they
were performing. In the winter, when the air is
most frequently cc:wdensed by cold, and its different
strata of various degrees of tenacity, on a clear
evening after rain, when particles of humidity, still
lloating in the air gives it greater power of reflection
and refraction, when the sun was settiug, and his
horizontal beams found most favourable to produce
meteoric phenomena, the spectrum of this wo9den
cross was cast on the coqcave surface of some atmos·
s ~
Digi '"d by Google
2CIO TBAUIIATUaGIA, oa
pheric mirror, and eo reflected back to the eyes of the
spectator~~ from an opposite place, retaining exactly
the aame shape and proportions, but dilated in size,
and changed in position ; and it was moreover tinged
with red, the '"'ery colour of the object of which it
waa the reflected image. This delusive appearance
continued till the sun was so far sunk below the
horizon, aa to afford no more light to illumine the
object, and the image ceaaed when the rays were no
longer distinctly re1lected.
•
•
Digi '"d by Google
,
.
BLUCIDATJONI OP THB MARVBLLOUI. 261
•
C H A P T E R XVII.
BLUCIDATION OJ' 80MB ANCIBNT PRODJGIBI.
MANY of the prodigies recorded by the ancients,
admit of a natul'lll explanation ; and an attentive
examination will show that a small number of causes,
which may be discerned and developed, will serve
for the explanation of nearly the whole of them.
There are two reseone for our believing accounts
of prodigies :-
1. The number and agreement of these accounts,
and the confidence to which the observers and wit-
neeses are entitled.
2. The possibility of dissipating what is wonderful,
by ascertaining any one of the prinCipal causes which
might have given to a natural fact a tinge of the
marvellous.
Now, as regards the first reason, the ancients have
recorded various occurrences : for instance, a shower
of quicksilver at Rome is mentioned by Dion Ca88iua,
in the year 197 of our era, and a similar event is
related under the reign of Aurelian. If we attend
to phenomena taking place in our time, such as a
shower of blood, tremendous hail stones weighing
•
Digi '"d by Google
262 THA.UMA Tl.Hl.OJA, OR
a pound each, and containing a stone within them ;
lhowers of frogs, and other almost unaccountable
occurrences, we must consign them to, " the annals
in which science has inserted the facts, she has recog·
nized as such, without as yet pretending to explain
them."
Respecting the second reason, the deceptive ap·
pearance which nature sometimes assumes, the exag·
geration, almoet unavoidable, by partially informed
observers, of the detaile of a phenomenon, or its
duration ; improper, ill-understood, or badly trans-
lated expressions, figurative language, and a prac-
tical style ; erroneous explanations of emblematical
representations ; apologues and allegories adopted
as real facts. Such are the causes, which, singly or
together, have frequently swollen with prodigious
fictions the page of history ; and it is by carefully
removing this envelope, that elucidations must be
sought of what has hitherto been improperly and
disdainfully rejected. A few examples will illustrate
these several positions.
The river Adonis being impregnated, during cer-
tain seasons, with volumes of dust raised from the
red soil of that part of Mount Libanus near which it
flows, gave rise to the fable of the periodical effusion
of the blood ofAdonis. There is a rock near the Island
of Corfu, which bears the resemblance of a ship
under sail : the ancients adapted the story to the
phenomenon, and recognised in it the Phenician
llhip, in which Ulysses returned to his country,
converted into stone by Neptune, for having carried
away the lllayer of his son Polyphemus. A more ex-
••
~ , · ·
Digi '"d by Google I
~
:ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TH:B MARVELLOUS. 263
tensi,·e acquaintance with the ocean, has shown that
this appearance is not unique ; a similar one on the
C088t of Patagonia, has more than once deceived both
French and English navigators ; and rock Dunder,
in the West Indies, bears a resemblance, at a distance
equally illusive. There is another recorded by Cap-
tain Hardy, in his recent travels in Mexico, near the
more of California ; and the " story of the flying
Dutchman," is founded on a similar appearance
at the Cape of Good Hope, connected with a tra-
dition which has been long current there among
the Dutch colonists. Another instance is afforded
by the chimrera, the solution of which enigma, as
given by Ovid, is so fully substantiated by the very
intelligent British officer who surveyed the Caramania
a few years since. Scylla the sea monster, which
devoured six of the rowers of Ulysses, M. Salverte,
a recent compiler on the marvellous, is tempted
to regard as an overgrown polypus magnified by
the optical power of pot'try, though we are disposed
to give the credit to an alligator, or its mate, a cro-
codile ; and this occurrence is not so fictitiously repre·
sented, as it is supposed to be.
IUGICAL PRETENSIONS OF CERTAIN HERBS, BTC,
In the enumeration of plants poesessing magical
properties, Pliny mentions those which, according
to Pythagoras, have the property of concealing water.
Eltewhere, without having resour.ce to magic, he
asMgns to hemp an analogous quality. According to
him, the juice of this plant poured into water becomes
Digi '"d by Google
264 TB&UJIAT17&GU, Oa
10ddenly inspi88ated and congealed. It is probable
enough, that he indicated a sjlecies of mallow, the
hemp--leaved marsh-mallow, of which the mucila-
ginous joice produces this effect to a certain point,
and an effect which may also be obtained from every
vegetable as rich in mucilage.
Of vegetable productions, many produce intoxi-
a&ting effects, such as berries of the night-shade,*
scammony, and varioua species of fungi. These
unquestionably have been made aubservient to de-
monological purpoees , which, with the ignorant,
have passed off for supernatural agency. The priests,
to whom the little comparativ~ learning of the
dark ages attached. knew well how to impc>@f upon
the credulous : but imposition was not always their
object ; an extent of benevolence prevailed which
contemplated the relief of their fellow creatures
aftlicted with sickness.
It was maintained by the Egyptians that, besides
the gods, there were many demons which communi-
cated with mortals, and which were often n>.ndered
• The berries of the lx>lladonna or deadly nightshade,
produce, when eaten, a furious madness, followed by sleep,
which lasts for twenty.four hours. Such drugs as produce
mental stupefaction, without impairing the physical powers,
may have given rise to the accounts of men being trans-
formed into brutes, so frequent in what are denominated
the fabulous writers, while the evanescent but exquisite
joys of an opposi~ description, an anticipation of what
implicit olx>dience would ensure them for ever, produced
blind, furious, devoted adherents to any philoaophicalapecu-
lator, who would venture to try 10 desperate an experi-
ment..
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' THB IIURVBLLOUS, 265
visible by certain ceremonies and songs ; that genii
exercised an habitual and po-yverf»l influence over
every particle of matter ; that thirty-six of these
beings presided over the various members of the
human body ; and thus, by magical incantations, it
might be strengthened, or debilitated, afflicted with,
or delivered from disease. Thus, in every case of
sickness, the spirit presiding o~er the afflicted part,
was first duly invoked. But the magicians did not
trust solely to their vain invocations ; they were
well acquainted with the virtues of certain herbs,
which they wisely employed in their attempts at
healiog. These herbs were greatly esteemed : such,
for instance, as the cynocepluJia, or, as the Egyptians
themselves termed the asyrites,"' which was used as
a preventive against witchcraft ; and the nepenthes
which Helen presented in a potion to Menelaus, and
which was believed to bepowerful in banishingsadness,
and in restoring the mind to its. accustomed, or even
to greater, cheerfulness, were of Egyptian growth.
But whatever may be the virtues of such herbs, they
were used rather for their magicBl, than for their
medicinal qualities; every cure was cunningly as-
cribed to the presiding demon!!; with which not a
few boasted that they were, by means of their art,
intimately connected.
There can be no question, ·as attested by the
• The Rowan tree or Mountain ash, is used by the
Sc:ouiah peasantry with the same view ; 11nd a small twig of
it is sewed up in the cow's tail, to preserve the animal and
its produce from the influence of witChes and warlocks.
-
'266 THA!rMATURGIA, OR
earliest records, that the ancients were in possession
of many potent remedies. Melampus of Argos, the
mo!t ancient oteek physician with whom we are
acquai:Jted, is reputed to have cured one of the
Argonauts of barrenness, by exhibiting the rust of
iron dis..<>olved in wine, for the space of ten days.
The !!arne physician used hellebore as a purgative
on the daughters of King Proteus, who were labour·
ing under hypochondriasis or melancholy. Bleeding
was also a remedy of very early origin, and said
to have been first suggested by the hypopotamus
or sea horse, which at a certain time of the year
was ob!!erved to cast itself on the sea shore, and
to wound itself among the rocks or stones, to relieve
its plethora. Podalerius, on his return from the
Trojan war, cured the daughter of Damrethus, who
had fallen from a height, by bleeding her in both
arms. Opium, the concrete juice of the poppy, was
known in the earliest ages ; and probably it was
opium that Helen mixed with wine, and gave to
the guests of Menelaus, under the expressive name
of Nepenthe, to drown their cares, and encrease
their hilarity This conjecture, in a considerable de-
gree, is supported from the fact, that Homer's Ne-
penthe was procured from the Egyptian Thebes,
whence the tincture of opium, according to the
nomenclature of the pharmacopeia about fifty years
ago, and still known by this name in the older
writers; and, if Dr. Darwin may be credited, the
Cumrean Sybil never eat on the portending tripod
without first swallowing a few drops of juice of the
cherry-laurel. ·
o;9; izod,by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARV&LI.OUS. 26j
There is every reason to believe that the Pagan
priesthood were under the influence of some narcotic
preparation during the display of their oracular
power, but the effects produced would seem rather to
resemble those of opium, or perhaps of stramonium,
than of prussic acid, which the cherry-laurel water is
known to contain.
The priests of the American Jndians, says Mo-
nardur, whenever they were consulted by the chief
gentlemen, or caciques, al! they are called, took certain
leaves of the tobacco, and cast them into the fire, anrl
then received the smoke thus produced by them into
their mouths, which caused them to fall upon the
ground. After having remained in this position for
some time in a state of stupor~o they recovered, and
delivered the answers, which they pretended to have
received during the supposed intercourse with the
world of spirits.
The narcotic, or sedative influence of the garden
radish, was known in the earliest times. In the
fables of antiquity we read, that, after the death of
Adonis, Venus, to console herself, and repress her
desires, lay down upon a bed of lettuces. The sea
onion, or squill, was administered by the Egyptians,
in cases of dropsy, under the mystic title of the eye
of Typhon. The practices of incision and scarifica-
tion, were employed in th~ Greek camp at the siege
of Troy ; and the application of spirits to wounds,
was likewise understood ; for we find Nestor applying
a poultice compounded of cheese, onion, and meal,
mixed up with the wine of Pramnos, to the wounds
ofMachaon.
268 TBAUJU.TURGIA, OR
To bring some inactive substance into repute, as
promising some extraordinary, nay, wonderful medi-
cinal properties, requires only the sanction of a few
great names ; and when once established on such a
basis, ingenuity, argument, and even experiment,
may open their otherwise powerful batteries in vain.
In this manner all the quack medicines, ever held in
any estimation, got into repute. And the same vulgar
prejudice, which induces people to retain an accus-
tomed remedy upon bare Bl!sertion and presumption,
either of ·ignorance or partiality, will, in like man-
ner, oppose the introduction of any innovation in
practice with asperity, and not unfrequently with a
quantum sufficit of scrutiny and abuse, unless, indeed,
it be supported by authorities of still greater weight
and consideration.
The history of many articles of diet, as well as me-
dicine, amply prove how much their reputation and
fate have depended upon some authority or other.
Ipecacuanha had been imported into England for
many years, before Helvetius, under the patronage of
Louis XIV, succeeded in introducing it into practice
in France; and, to the Queen of Charles II., we are
indebted for the introduction of that popular beverage,
tea, into England. Tobacco has suffered as many
variable vicissitudes in ita fame and character. It
has been successively opposed and commended by
physicians, condemned and praised by priests and
kings, and proscribed and protected by governments,
until, at length, this once insignificant production ofa
little island, has succeeded in propagating itselfthrough
every climate and country. Nor is the historv of the
~
~
--
·-
,
• ELUCIDATIONS OF TBB MARVKLLOUS. 269
potatoe less remarkable or less strikingly illustrative
of th~: imperious influence of authority. This valuable
plant, for upwards of two centuries, received an un-
precedented opposition from vulgar prejudice, which
all the philosophy of the age was unable to dissipate,
until Lonis XIV. wore a bunch ofthe flowers ofthe po-
tatoe, in the midst of his court, on a day of mirth aud
festivity. The people then, for the first time, ob-
sequiously acknowledged its utility, and began to
express their astonishment at the apathy which
had so long prevailed with regard to its general
cultivation.
Another instance may be furnished of overbearing
authority, in giving celebrity to a medicine, or in
depriving it of that reputation to which its virtues
entitle it, is seen in the history of the Peruvian bark.
This famed medicine was imported into Spain by the
Jesuits, where it remained seven years, before a trial
was given to it. A Spanish priest was the first to
whom it was administered, in the year ~39, and
even then its use was extremely limited ; and it
would undoubtedly have sunk into oblivion, but for
the supreme power of the church of Rome, under
whose protecting auspices it gained a temporary tri-
umph over the passions and prejudices which opposed
its introduction. Pope Innocent X. at the interces-
sion of the Cardinal de Lugo, who was formerly a
Spanish jesuit, ordered the bark to be duly examined,
and on the favourable report, which was the result of
this examination, it immediately rose into high favour
and celebrity.
The root of the male fern, a nostmm for the cure
Digi '"d by Google
·~
•
270 THAUMATURGJA, OR
of the tape worm, was secretly retailed by Madame
Noufleur. This secret was purcha...<~ed by Louis XV.
for a considerable sum of money. It was not until
this event that the physicans discovered, that the same
remedy had been administered in the same complaint
by Galen. The history of popular remedies in the
cure of gout, is equally illustrative of this subject.
The Duke of Portland's celebrated powder was nothing
less than the deacintaureon of Crelius Aurelianus, or
the antidotus et duobus centaurete generibus of 1Etius,
the receipt for which, a friend of his grace brought
with him from Switzerland, into which country, in all
likelihood, it had been introduced by the early medi-
cal writers, who had transcribed it from the Greek
volumes, soon after their arrival into the western part
of Europe.*
The active ingredient of a no less celebrated prepa-
ration for the same complaint, the Eau medicinale de
Husson, a medicine brought into fashion by M. de
Husson,,. military officer in the service of Louis XVI
has been discovered to be the meadow saffron. Upon
searching after and trying the properties of this herb,
it was observed that similar effects in the cure of the
gout were ascribed to a certain plant, called hermo-
daclyllus, by Oribasius (an eminent physician of the
4th century) and 1Etius, who fiourished at Alex-
andria towards the t"nd of the 5th century, but more
particularly by Alexander of Tralles, a physician of
Asia Minor, whose prescription consisted of hermo-
daclyllus, ginger, pepper, cummin seed, aniseed, and
• See Pharmacologia, by Dr. Paria,
BLUCJDATJONS Oil' THB MARVELLOUS. 271
!Calllmony, which he says will enable those who take
it to walk immediately. On an inquiry being imme-
diately set on foot for the discovery of this unknown
plant, a specimen of it was procured at Constanti-
nople, and it actually did turn out to be a species of
meadow saffron, the colchicum autumnale of Linn;eus.
The celebrated fever powder of Dr. James was evi-
dently not his original composition, but an Italian
nostrum, invented by a person of the name pf Lisle ;
areceipt for the preparation o'-which is to be found
at length in Colborne's complete English Dispensary
for the year 1756. The various secret preparations of
opium which have been extolled as the discovery of
modern days, may be recognised in the works of
ancient authors. The use of prussic acid in the cure
of consumptions, lately suggested by M. Magendie, at
Paris, is little more than the revival of the Dutch
practice in this disorder ; for Linnreus informs us,
that distilled laurel water was frequently used in the
cure of pulmonary consumption."'
We shall conclude these observations with a few
remarks on what are termed patent medicines, nos-
trums, or quack medicines, and their boasted preten-
sions in general. There is, in fact, but one state of
perfect health, yet the deviations from this state, and
the general species of diseases are almost infinite.
Hence it will easily be underatood, that in the classes
of medical remedies, there must likewise be a great
variety, and that some of them are even of opposite
tendencies. Such are both the warm and cold bath
• Vide "Amenetates Acudemice," vol. 4.
•
Digi '"d by Google
•
1111111111
••
272 THAUMATU&GJA, Oa
con!idered as medical remedies. Though opp(>si~ to
each other in their sensible effects, each of them mani-
fests its medical virtues, yet only in such a state of
the body as will admit of using it with advantage.
From these premise!, it is evident that an univemtl
remedy, or one that possesses healing powers for the
cure ofall diseases, is, in fact, a non-entity, a mere
delusion, the existence of which is physically impos-
sible, as the mere idea of such a thing involves a con-
tradiction. How, for instance, can it be conceived,
. .
that the same remedy should be capable of restonng
the tone of the .muscular fibres, when they are re-
laxed, and also have the power of relaxing them when
they are too rigid ; that it should coagulate the fluids
when in a state of resolution, and again attenuate
• them when they are too viscid ; that it should mode-
rate the nerves when in a state of preturnatural sen-
sibility, and likewise restore them to their proper
degree of irritability when they are in a contrary
• state.
The belief in an universal remedy has long been j'
abandoned, even among the vulgar, and long exploded
in those classes of society, which are not influenced
• by prejudice, or tinctltred with fanaticism. It is,
however, sincerely to be regretted, that the daily press
continues to be inundated with advertisements ; and
that the lower, and lev informed class of the commn-
nity, are still imposed upon by a set of privileged im-
postors, who frequently puzzle the intelligent to de-
cide, whether the impudence or the industry with
which they endeavour to establish the reputation of
their respective poisons, be the most prominent fea-
ture in their character.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS, 273
In illustration of this last observation, it may fur-
ther be observed,· that most of the nostrums adver-
tised as cough drops, etc., are preparations of opium,
similar, but inferior, to -the well-known paregoric
elixir of the shops, but disguised and rendered more
deleterious by the addition of heating and aromatic
gums. The injnry which may be occasioned by the
indiscriminate employment otsuch medicines might be
very serious and irremediable, as is well known to
every person possessing the smallest portion of medi-
cal knowledge. The boasted, though groundless pre-
tensions of certain illiterate empirics to cure diseases
which have eluded the skill and penetf"!\tion of the
faculty, is another absurdity into which people of good
common sense have been most woefully entrapped.
The lessons of experience ought to prove the most
useful, as purchased at the greatest trouble and ex-
pense : but if people choose to run over a precipice
with their eyes open, they leave themselves nothing
to regret, and the public less to lament, by their fall.
It was justly obserred by the sagacious and intelli-
gent Racon, " that a reflecting physician is not di-
rected by the opinion which the multitude entertain
of a favourite remedy, but ~t be must be guided by
a sound judgment; and consequently, he is led to
make very important distinctions between those things
which only by their name pass for medical remedies,
and others, which in reality possess healing powers."
We avail ourselves of the quotation, as it indirectly
censures the conduct of certain medical practitioners,
who do not scruple to recommend what are vulgarly
called patent ~d other quack preparations, the COID•
T
THAUMATURGIA, OR
position of which is carefully concealed from the
public. Having acquired their unmerited reputation
by mere chance, and being supported by the most
refined artifices, in order to delude the unwary, we
are unable to come at the evidence of perhaps nine
tenths of those who have experienced their fatal
effects, and who are now no longer in a situation
to complain.
From universal remedies or panaceas, to nos-
trums and specifics, such, for instance, as pretend
to cure the same disease in every patient, is easy
and natural. With the latter also, impositions of
a dangerous tendency are often practised. It may
be asked how far they are practicably admissible.
and in what cases they are wholly unavailing ? The
answer is not difficult. In those diseases, which
in every instance depend upon the same cause, as
in agues, the small-pox, measles, and many other
contagious distempers, the possibility of specifics,
in a limited sense, may be rationally, though hypo-
thetically admitted. But in either maladies, the
causes of which depend on a variety of other con-
current circumstances, and the cure of which in
different individuals, fre.ntly requires very opposite
remedies, as in dropsy, various species of colds,
the almost infinite variety of consumptions, etc.
a specific remedy is an imposition upon the com-
mon sense of ~ankind. Those who are but im-
perfectly acqua.inted with the various causes from
which the same disorder originates in different indi-
viduals, can never entertain such a v!ilgar and dan-
gerous notion. They will easily perceive, how much
-
ELUCIDATIONS OP TRJ: MAilVBLLOUS. 275
depends upon ascertaining with precision, the seat
and cause of the complaint, before any medicine
can be presented with safety or advantage :-even
life and death are, we are sorry to add, too often
decided by the first steps. Different constitutions,
diferent symptoms, and stages of disease, all require
more or less a separate consideration. What is
more natural than to place confidence in a remedy,
which has been known to afford relief to others
in the same kind of disposition ? The patient anx-
iously enquires after a person who has been atllicted
with the same malady ; he is eager to know the
remedy that has been used with success ; his frielld
or neighbour imparts to him the wished for intelli-
gence ; he is determined to give the medicine a
fair trial, and takes it with confidence. From what
has been stated, it will not be difficult to conceive,
that if his case does not exnctly correspond with
that of his friend, any chance remedy may prove
extremely dangerous, if not fatal.
Hence it becomes evident, that the results are
not to be depended upon, nor the chance risked.
The physician is obliged to employ all his sagacity,
supported by his own extyl!rience, as well as by that
of his predecessors ; and yet he is often under the
necessity of discovering, from the progress of the
disease, what he could not derive from the minutest
research. How tb.en can it be e~pected, that a
novice in the art of healing should be more suc-
cessful, when the whole of his method of cure is
either the impulse of the moment, or the effect of
his own credulity ? It may be therefore truly said,
T 2
Digi '"d by Google
276 TRA11MAT11RGU., Oil
that life and death are frequently entrusted to
chance!
The late Dr. Huxham, a physician of some emi·
nence in his day, when speaking of Asclepiades,
the Roman empiric, says : " This man from a de·
claimer turned physician, and set himself up to op·
pose all the physicians Of his time ; and the novelty
of the thing bore him out, as it frequently doth
the quacks of the present time ; and ever will whilt
the majority of the world are fools." In another
place, he curiously contrasts the too timid practice
of some regular physicians, with the hazardous treat·
ment, which is the leading feature of quacks : " The
timid, low, insipid practice with some, is almost
as dangerous as the bold, unwarranted empiricism
of others ; time and opportunity, neYer to be re-
gained, are often lost by the former ; while with
the latter, by a bold push, you are sent off the stage
n a moment.
From what has been said, it may confidently
be asserted, that a uniYersal remedy still remains
as great a desideratum · as the philosopher's stone ;
and either can only obtain credit with the weak-
minded, the credulous, •or the fanatic. One of
the most unfortunate circumstances in the history
of such medicines, is the insinuating and dangerous
method, by which they are puffed into notice. And
as we have little of the beneficial effects which they
daily must produce, by being promiscuously applied,
people attend only to the extraordinary instances,
perhaps not one in fifty, where they have afforded
a temporary or apparent relief. It is well known,
11L17CIDATIONB OP TRB MABVBLLOUB. 277
that the more powerful a remedy is, the more per-
manent and dangerous must be its effects on the
constitution ; especially if it be introduced like many
patent medicines, by an almost indefinite encrea.se
of the dose. There is another consideration, not
apt to strike those who are unacquainted with the
laws of the animal economy. When it is intended
to bring about any remarkable change in the syetem
of an organized body, such means are obliged to
be employed as may contribute to produce that change
without affecting too violently the living powers,
or without carrying their action to an improper
length. Indeed, the patient may be gradually ha-
bituated to almost any stimulus, but at the expence
of a paralytic stroke on an impaired constitution.
Such are among the melancholy effects of .imposture
and credulity! "Were it possible," says a learned
authority, " to collect all the cases of sacrifices
to the mysterious infatuation, it is probable that
the1r number would exceed the enormous havoc made
by gunpowder or the sword." Another reputable
writer makes the following terse remark on this
subject : " As mattera stand at present,'' says
he, " it is easier to cheat a man out of his life,
than of a shilling : and almost impo!!sible either to
detect or punish the offender. Notwithstanding this,
people still shut their eyes, and take every thing
upon trust, that ·is administered by any pretender
to medicine, without .daring to ask him a reason
for any part of his conduct. Implicit faith, every
where else the object of ridicule, is still sacred here."
Digi '"d by Google
t78 TBAUMATUROIA, oa
CHAPTER XVIII.
THB PRATICB OJ' OBEAH, OR NBOBO WITCBCRAPT-
CHARII&--THBIR KNOWLBDOB OP VBOBTABLB POI•
SONB-SBCRJtT POISONING.
OBEAH, a pretended sort of witchcraft, arising from
a superstitious credulity' prevailing among the ne-
groes, has ever been considered as a most dangerous
practice, to snppress which, in our West India colo..
Dies, the severest laws have been enacted. The
Obeah is considered as a potent and most irresistible
spell, withering and paralyzing, by indiscribable ter-
rors and unusual sensations, the devoted victim.
One negro who desires to be revenged on another,
and is afraid to make an open and manly attack
on his adversary, has urmally recourse to this prac-
tice. Like the witches' cauldron in Macbeth, it is
a combination of many strange and ominous things.
Earth gathered from a grave, human blood, a piece
of wood fastened in the shape of a coffin, the feathers
of the carion crow, a snake or alligator's tooth.
pieces of egg-shell, and other nameless ingredients.
o~''"db,Google 1
- - _.__............,
BLUCJDATJONS OP TBB IIARVBLLOUS. 279
compose the fatal mixture. The whole of these
articles may not be considered as absolutely necessary
to complete the charm, but two or three are at least
indispensable.* ·
It will of course be conceived, that the practice
of OBEAH can have little effect, unless a negro
is conscious that it is practised upon him, or thinks
so ;t for, as the whole evil consists in the terrors
•Variousetymologies have been suggested for the word obi.
Mr. Long, in a paper transmitted several yean since, by the
agenta of Jamaica to the Lords or the Committee of Privy
Council, and by the latter subjoined to the report on the slave
trade, expreasea himself on this subject as follows : " From
the leArned Mr. Bryant's commentary on the word OPH,
we obtain a very probable etymology of the term ; 'a serpent,'
ill the Egyptian language, was called .4•6 or 06.' ' Oblo..;
ia still the Egyptian name of a serpent.' ' Moses, in the
name of God, forbids the Israelites to inquire of the demon
06, which is translated in our Bible, charmer or wizzard,
Ditthurto,. t~W.t 1orcikgw.' The woman of Endor is called
Ot.W or 06, translated Pythonissa ; and O..t.aoil (be cites
Horus Apollo) was the name of the Basilisk or royalser-
peDt, emblem of the sun, and an ancient oracular deity
of Africa. Their etymology, if admitted, connects the mo-
dern superstitions of the west of Africa, with the ancient
ones of the eut of that continent, from which source they
have alsobeen spread in Europe. They are humble parts of the
great system which is adorned with the fables of Osiris and
laia ; and they comprise not only the Obi of Africa, but the
witchcraft of our own country. That superstition is every
where connected with the worship of the serpent, and with
the moon and the cat. Skulls and teeth of cats are among
the principal ingredients of the African charms or 06k1.
t Mr. Long gives the following account of the furniture
Digi '"d by Google
280 THAUMATUROIA, OR
of a !Uperatitious imagination, it is of little conse•
quence whether it be practised or not, if he only ima-
gines that it is. But if the charm fails to take hold of
the mind of the proscribed person, another and more
certain expedient is resorted to-the secretly ad-
of the house of 11n Obi-womun, or African witch in Jamaica :
"The whole inside of the roof, {which was of thatch} and
every crevice of the walls were stuck with the implements
of her trade, consiating of rags, feathers, bones of c11ts, and
a thousand other articles. EXRmining further, a large eRrtb-
en pot or j11r, close covered, contained a prodigious quantity
of round balls of earth or cl11y, of various diritensions, large
and small, whitened on the outside, and variously com-
pounded, some with h11ir and rags, or feathers of all sorts,
and strongly bound with twine : others blended with the
upper section of the skulls of c11ts, or set round with ca&8'
teeth and claws, or with human or dogs' teeth, and some
glau beads of different colours. There were also a great
many egg-shells filled with a viscous or gummy substance,
the qualities of which were neglected to be examined ; and
many little bags filled with a variety of articles, the par-
ticulars of which cannot, at this distance of time, be recol-
lected." Shakespeare and Dryden, have left us poetical
IICcounts of the composition of European Obies or charms,
with which, 11nd with more historical descriptions, the above
may be compared. The midnight hours of the professors of
Obi, are also to be compared with the witches of Europe.
Obi, therefore, is the serpent-worship. The Pythoness.
at Delphos, was an Obi-woman. With the serpent-worship
is joined that of the sun and moon, 118 the governors of the
visible world, and emblems of the male and female nature
of the godhead ; and to the cat, on account of her nocturnal
prowliogs, is 11scribed a mysterious relationship to the moon.
The dog and the wolf, doubtless for the same reason, are
aimilarly circumttanced.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 281
ministering of poison to him. This saves the repu-
tation of the sorceror, and- effects the purpose he
bad in view.
An OBEAH man or woman (for it is practised
by both sexes) is a very dangerous person on a
plantation ; and the practice of it is made felony
by law, punishable with death where poison has been
administered, and with transportation where only
the charm has been used. But numbers have, and
may be swept off, by its infatuation, before the crime
is detected ; for~ strange as it may appear, so much
do the negroes stand in awe of those Obeah pro-
fessors, so much do they dread their malice and
their power, that, though knowing the havoc they
have made, and are still making, they are afraid
to discover them to the whites ; and, others perhaps,
are in league with them for sinister purposes of mis-
chief and revenge.
A negro, under the infatuation of Obeah, can only
be cured of his terrors by being made a Christian :
refuse him this boon, and he sinks a martyr to
imagined evils. A negro, iu short, considers him-
self as no longer under the influence of this sorcery
when he becomes a christian. And instances are
known of negroes, who, being reduced by the fatal
in:O.uence of Obeah to the lowest state of dejection
and .debility, from which there were little hopes
of recovery, have been surprisingly and rapidly
restored to health and cheerfulness by being baptized
christians. The negroes believe also in apparitions,
and stand in great dresd of them, conceiving that
they forbode death, or some other great evil, to
-~ ---
282 THAUIIATCRGIA, OIL
those whom they visit ; in short, that the spirits
of the dead come upon the earth to be revenged
on those who did them evil when in life. Thus
we see, that not only from the remotest antiquity,
but eve1;1 among slaves and barbarians, the belief
in supernatural agencies has been a popular creed,
not, in fact, confined to any distant race or tribe
of people ; and, what is still more surprising, there
is a singular and most remarkable identity in the
notion or conception of their infernal ministry.
In the British West Indies, the negroes of the
windward coast are called Mandingoes, a name which
is here taken as descriptive of a peculiar race or na-
tion. There seems reason, however, to believe, that
a Mandingo or Mandinga-man, is properly the same
with an Obi-man. A late traveller in Brazil gives us
the following anecdotes of the Mandinga and Mandin-
gueiro of the negroes in that country. " One day,"
says Mr. Koster, "the old man (a negro named
Apollinario) came to me with a face of dismay, to
show me a ball of leaves, tied up with a plant called
cypo, which he had found under a couple of boards,
upon which he slept, in an out-house. The ball was
about the size of an apple. I could not imagine what
had caused his alarm, until he said that it was Man-
dinga which had been set for the purpose of killing
him ; and he bitterly bewailed his fate, that at his
age, any one should wish to hasten his death, and to
carry him from this world, before our lady thought
fit to send him. I knew that two of the black wo-
men were at variance, and suspicion fell upon one
of them, who was acquainted with the old Mandin-
Digi '"d by Google
.BLt1CIDATIONS OP 'J'BB M.ARV.BLLOUS. 283
gwiro of Engenho Velho ; therefore she was sent for.
Ijudged that the Mandinga was not set for Apollona-
rio, but for the negress whose business it was to
sweep the out-house. I threatened to confine the
BDspected woman at Gara unless she discovered the
whole affair. She said the Mandinga was placed
there to make one of the negresses dislike her fellow-
slaves, and prefer her to the other. The ball of
MIWlinga was formed of five or six kinds of leaves
of trees, among which was the pomegranate leaf;
there were likewise two or three bits of rag, each of
apeculiar kind ; ashes, which were the bones of some
animals ; and there might be other ingredients be-
sides, but theee were what I could recognize. This
woman either could not from ignorance, or would not
give any information respecting the several things of
which the ball was composed. I made this serious
matter of the Mandinga, from knowing the faith·
which not only many of the negroes have in it, but
also some of the mulatto people. There is another
name for this kind of charm ; it is calledfeitif'O, and
the initiated are called feitir;eros ; of these there was
formerly one at the plantation of St. Joam, who be-
came so much dreaded, that his master sold him to
be sent to Maranham.
Speaking of the green-beads (contas verdas) which
are another object of superstition in South America,
and of the reliance placed upon them by the Valen-
toens, a lawless description of persons among the
colonists of Brazil; the same author gives us this fur-
ther view of the Mandingueiros and their charms.
"These men," says he," wore on their necks strings
Digi '"d by Google
284 THAUMATURGIA, OR
of green beads, which had either come from the coast
of Africa, bearing the wonderful property of conveying
in safety their possessors through all descriptions of
perils, or were charmed by the Mandingueiros, African
eorcerers, who had been brought over to the Brazils
as slaves, and in secret continued the prohibited prac-
tice of imparting this virtue to them. Vincente had
been acquainted with some of the men, and was firmly
persuaded of the virtues of the green beads. When
I expressed my doubts of the efficacy of the beads,
against a musket ball well directed, his anger rose ;
but there was pity mingled with it."
Labat brings these stones from the Orellana, or
river of the ~azons. " I was informed," says our
author, • that Contu verdas came from Africa; bot
some have found their way from the Orellana, and
been put into requisition by the Mandingueiros. Mr.
Southey has also given an account of the " green
atones of the Amazons," iu his history of Brazil, vo].
I. p. 107.
In another place, some traveller presents us with
the Mandingueiros in the new character of charmer of
snakes. " The Mandingueiros are famous, among
other feats, for handling poisonous snakes, and can,
by particular noises or tunes, call those reptiles from
their holes, and make them assemble around them.
These sorcerers profess to render innoxious the bites
of snakes, to persons who submit to their charms and
ceremonies. One of the modes which is adopted for
this purpose, is that of allowing a tame snake to crawl
over the head, face, and shoulders of the person who
is to be curado de cobras, cured of snakes, as th~y
Digi '"d by Google
•
·
'
BLUCIDATION8 OP THB MARVELLOUS, 285
term it. The owner of the snake repeats a certain
number of words during the operation, of which, the
meaning, if they contain any, is only known to the
initiated. The rattle-snake is said to be, above all
other species. the most susceptible of attention to the
tunes of the Mandingneiros. The above accounts I
should not have related upon the authority of one or
two authors. I have heard them repeated by se-
veral individuals, and even some men of education
have spoken of the reputed efficacy of the tame snakes
of the Mandingneiros, as ifthey were somewhat stag-
gered in their belief of it. " These men do certainlv
play strange tricks and very dexterously." The sam~
writer also observes, " One of the negroes whom I
had hired with the plantation of Jaguaribi, had one
leg much thicker than the other. This was occa-
!ioned, as he told me, by the bite of a rattlesnake; he
eaid he had been cured from the bites of snakes by a
certain curador de cobras, or Mandingneiro, and had
therefore not died ; but that as the " moon was
strong," he had not escaped receiving some injury
from the bite.
Beaver, in his African Memoranda, says, "There
is another sort of people who travel about in the
country, called Mandingo-men, (these are Mahom-
medans ;) they do not work; they go from place ·to.
place, and when they find any chiefs or people, whom
they think they can make any thing of, they take up
their abode some time with them, and make gree-
grees, and someti~ cast seed from them for which
they make them pay. _
On this, and other occasions, the word gree gree
Digi '"d by Google
:.!86 THAUMATURGJA, OR
is applied to a house whence oracles are delivered :
but it is also used for a charm or obi. .. They them-
selves,'' (the natives ofthe coast) says the author, last
quoted, " always wear gree-grees, or charms, which
they purchase of the Mandingoes, to guard them
against the effects of certain arms, or of poison, and
on which they place the utmost reliance. They have
one against poison ; another against a musket ; an·
other against a sword ; and another against a knife ;
and, indeed, against almost every thing that they i
think can hurt them. Mandingo priest, or gris gris :
merchant, that is, a seller of charms, which carried
about a person, secure the wearer from any evils,- '
such as poison, murder, witchcraft, etc. To this
priest I had made some handsome presents, and he,
in return, gave me twelve gris.gris, and assured me
that they would inevitably secure me from all danger,
at the same time he gave me directions how to dis-
pose of them. Some were to be carried about my
person ; one secretly placed over each archway ; an-
other kept under my pillow, and another under the
door of the house I was then building." The Byu-
gas hold these people in great reverence, and say that
they' talk with God.'
Mr. Long, in his history of the West Indies, states
that, under the general name of Obi-men is also
included the class of Myal men, or those who, by ·
means of a narcotic poison, made with the juice of .
an herb (said to be the branched Calalue, a species
of solanum) which occasions a trance of a certain
duration, endeavour to convince the deluded specta- .
tors of their power to reanimate dead bodies.
Digii?edb,Google • j
ELUCJDATJO:o;S OF TDR liURVELLOt'So 2 87
Additional particulars of this superstition pre~rerved
by Labat, Edwards, and others, are to be joined with
those now produced ;• but after all, the questions to
be solved are, whether Obi, Mandinga, and gree gree,.
are usually words of similar import, and whether
those who are conversant in them are all alike, priests
ofone system of religious faith and worship, or whe-
ther the one does not belong to the worship of a good
power, and the other to that of an evil one.
It is remarkable, that while the Etymology of Obi
bas been sought in the names of ancient deities of
Egypt, and in that of the serpent in the language of
the coast, the actual name of the evil deity or Devil,
in the same language, appears to have escaped atten-
tion. That name iswritten by Mr. Edwards, Obboney;
and the bearer of it is described as a malicious deity,
the author of all evil, the inflictor of perpetual diseases,
and whose anger is to be appeased only by human
sacrifices. This evil deity is the Satan of our own
• The superstition of Obi was never generally remarked
upon in the British West Indies till the year 1760, when, after
an insurrection in Jamai&a. of the Coromantyn or Gold Coast
negroes, it was found that It bad been made an instrument
for promoting that disturbance. An old Coromantyn negro,
the chief instigator and oracle of the insurgents of the p11risb
of St. Mary, in which the in8Urrection broke out, who bad
administered the Fetiche or solemn oath to the conspirators,
and furnished them with a magical preparation, which was to
make them invulnerable, was at that time apprehended and
puni!hed, and a law was enacted for the suppression of the
.practice, under which several examples were made, but with•
out eft'ecting for many years, any diminution of the evil
sought to be remedied.
Digi '"d by Google
288 ·THAUKATURGTA, OR
faith ; and it is the worship of Satan which, in
all parts of the world constitutes the essence of
sorcery.
If this name of Obboney has any relation to the Ob
of Egypt, and if the Ob, both anciently in Egypt.
and to this day in the west ofAfrica, signifies " a ser-
pent," what does this discover to our view, but that
Satan has the name of serpent among the Negro na~
tions as well as among those of Europe ? As to how
it has happened that the serpent, which, in some
systems, is the emblem of the good spirit, is in others
the emblem of the evil one, that is a topic which be-
longs to a more extensive enqniry. This is ~nough for
our present satisfaction to remember that the profes-
sion of, and belief in sorcery or witchcraft, supposes
the existence of two deities, the one, the author of
good, and the other the author of evil; the one wor-
shipped by good men for good things, and for good
purposes : and the other by bad men for bad things
and purposes ; and that this worship is sorcery and
the worshippers sorcerers.
It will be seen above, that since African charms
are to prevent evil, and others to procure it, the first
belong to the worship, and are derived from the
power, of the good spirit; and the second are from
the opposite source. It is to be 1.:oncluded, then.
that the superstition of Obi is no other than the prac-
tice of, and belief in the worship of Obboney or Oboni.
the evil deity of the Africans, the serpent of Africa
and of Europe, and the old serpent and Satan of the
scriptures ; and that the witchcraft of the negroes is
evidently the same with our own. It inight indeed
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TH.I KARVKLLOUB. 269
be further shown, that the latter have their temporary
transformations of men into alligaoore, wolves, and the
like, as the French have their loups-garowr, the
Germane their war-wolves, wolf-men, and the rest.*
The negroes practising obeah are acquainted with
some very powerful vegetable poisons, which they use
on these occasions, and by which they acquire much
extensive credit. Their fetiches are their household
gods, or domestic divinities; one of whom is supposed
to preside over a whole province, and one over every
fiunily. This idol is a tree, the head of an ape, u. bird,
or any such thing, as their fancy may suggest. The
negroes have long been held famous in the act of
eecret or slow poisoning.
If doubts and difficulties envelope the discovery of
poisons, whose distinguishing character is the rapidity
of these effects, how much greater must be the uncer-
tainty when we are required to ascertain the adminis-
trations of what are called slow poisons. Thil! subject,
• In Kosten's travels in Brazil, we read of a negro who
wu reported by one of hie fellows to become occasionally
lobtll nomen or wolf-mao. "I uked him," said the author,
" to explain ; whl'n he s~id, that the man was at times trans-
formed into an animal, of the size of a calf with the figure of
a dog;,. and in the African memoranda is an account of a
negro who professed and even believed to have the power of
transforming himself into an alligator, in which state he de-
voured men. Upon being questioned by Captain Beaver, he
anawered, " I can change myself into an alligator, and have
often done it." But though these may be genuinl! African
superstitions, and not such as have been introduced by the
Portuguese, yet it is certain there is no part of Europe to
which they do not equally belong.
u
Digi '"d by Google
i90 TBAtlMATtJllGIA, Oil
indeed, is so closely entwined with popular supersti-
tions, that it is difficult to separatetruth from falsehood.
In Italy, for example, it was formerly said, that poisons
were made to destroy life at any stated period-from 1
a few hours to a year. This, however, turns out to.
be a mere fiction ; and, it is well understood, that we ·
know of no substances that will produce death at a
determinate epoch. The following case of the late
Prince Charles of Augustenhurgh, nevertheless,!!hows
that the idea of slow poii!On is still very prevalent,
even among the physicians of continental Europe.
Prince Charles of Augustenhurgh, Crown Prince
of Sweden, and the predecessor of Bernadotte, in that
station, fell dead from his horse on the 22nd of May,
1810, while reviewing troops in Scania. His death,
during that stormy period of public affairs, excited
great attention, and an opinion soon spread abroad
that he had been poisoned. The king ordered a judi-
cial investigation ; and it appeared that Dr. Rossi,
the physician of the late Prince, had, without direc-
tion!!, proceeded to inspect the body twenty-four hours
after death ; that he had performed this operation with
great negligence, omitting many things which the 1
law presented, which the assisting physicians proposed,
and which were essential to render it satisfactory;
and finally, that the coats of the l!tomach, instead of
being pre!!erved and submitted to chemical analysis
were, according to his own acknowledgment, thrown
away. The royal tribunal adjudged him to be deprived
of his appointment, and to be banished from the king-
dom. This decision would not of course diminish the
suspicion already excited; and among other physicians.
ELUCIDATIONS OJr TBB JIABV.BLLOUS. 291
who were consulted on the case, M. J..odi.n, professor
of Medicine at Lynkoping, presented two memoin,
in which he stated it as his opinion, that a slow poison
of a vegetable nature, and probably analogous to the
aqva tofania, had been administered to the Prince,
and that this had caused the apopletic fit of which he
died. His reasons were :
I. That the Prince had always enjoyed good health
previous to his arrival in Sweden, and, indeed, had not
been ill, until after eating a cold pie at an inn, in Italy.
He was shortly after seized with violent vomiting,
while the rest of the company experienced no ill
eft'ects.
2. The Prince was naturally very temperate.
3. Ever since he arrived in Sweden he had expe-
rienced a loss of appetite, with cholic and diarrhrea ;
and
4. That on lfusection, the spleen was found of a
black colour and in a state of decomposition, and the
liver indurated and dark coloured. Whilst during life
he had experienced no symptoms corresponding to
these appearances. Dr. Lodin confessed, however,
that he was unacquainted with the effects that indicate
the administration of a slow poison, but thought the
previous symptoms were such as might be expected
from it. ·
For the credit of the profession, this conjectural
opinion met with decided reprobation from other
medical men. It appeared that the Prince had, for
several days previously, been subject to giddiness and
pain in the head, and that all the symptoms were
readily referaJ>le to a simple case of apoplexy, while
u 2
Digi '"d by Google
292 TBAUJIATUJLGIA, OB
the appearances on dill8eCtion showed that rapid ten-
dency to putrefaction, which is frequently observed in
aimilar cases.
The public are highly indebted to professor Beck-
man for a very elaborate article, in which he has con-
centrated nearly all that ie known concerning secret
poisoning. Of this we shall here present our readen
with an abstract, as peculiarly adapted to the demo-
nology of medicine, aided with I!Ome facts from other
sources.
Professor Beckman considen! it unquestionable,
that the ancients were acquainted with this kind of
poii!On, and thinks that it may be proved from the
testimony of Plutarch, Quintilian, and other respecta-
ble authors. The former states that a slow poison,
which occasioned heat, a cough, spitting of blood, a
consumption, and weakneBB of intellect, was adminis-
tered to Aratus of Sicyon. Theophrastus speaks of a
poison prepared from aconite, which could be mode-
rated in such a manner as to have effect in two or
three months, or at the end of a year or two years ;
and he also relates, that Thrasyas had discovered a
method ofpreparing from other plants a poison which,
given in small doses, occasioned a certain but easy ·
death, without any pain, and which could be kept
back for a long time without causing weakness or
. corruption. The last poison was much used at Rome,
about two hundred years before the christian era.
At a later period, a female named Locusta, was the
agent in preparing these poisons, and she.. destroyed.
in this way, at the instigation of Nero, Britannicus,
son of Agrippina.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THB IIARVBLLOUS. 293
The CarthageJlians seemalso to have been acquainted
with this act of diabolical poisoning ; IUld they are
said, on the authority of Aulus Gellius, to have
administered some to Regulus, the Roman general.
Contemporary writers, however, it must be added,
do not mention thls.
The principal poisons known to the ancients were
prepared from plants, and particularly aconite, hem-
lock, and poppy, or from animal substances ; and
among the latter none is more remarkable than that
obtained from the sea-hare (Lepeu mariaus or Apylsia
depiJiu&B of the system of nature). With this, Titus ia
aaid to have been dispatched by Domitian. They do
not seem to have been acquainted with the common
mineral poisons.
In the year 1659, during the pontificate of
Alexander VII, it was observed at Rome, that many
young women became widows, and that many hus-
bands died when they became disagreeable to their ·
wives. The government used great vigilance to
<letect·the poil!oners, and suspicion at length fell upon
a society of young wives, whoee president appeared
to be an old woman, who pretended oo foretel future
events, and who had often predicted very exactly the
death of many persons. By means of a crafty female
their practices were detected ; the whole society were
arrested and put to the torture, and the old woman,
whoee name was Spara, and four others, were publicly
hanged. This Spara was a Sicilian, and is said to
have acqujred her knowledge from Tofania at Palermo.
Tophania, or Tofania, was an infamous woman,
who resided first at Palermo and afterwards at Naples.
Digi '"d by Google
THAUMATURGIA, OR
She sold the poison which from her acquired the
name of Aqua della Toffana (it was aJso called
.Acquetta di Napoli, or .Acquetta alone), but she dis·
tributed her preparation by way of charity to such
wives as wished to have other husbands. From four
to six drops were sufficient to destroy a man ; and it
was IWlerted, that the dose could be so proportioned
as to operate in a certain time. Labat says, that
Tofania distributed her poison in small glass phials,
with this inscription-MaMa of St. Nicholo.s of Btwi,
and ornamented with the image of the saint. She
lived to a great age, but was at last dragged from a
monastery, in which she bad taken refuge, and put to
the torture, when she confessed her crimes and was
strangled.
ln no country, however, has the art of poisoning
excited more attention than it did in France, about
the year 1670. Margaret d'Aubray, wife of the
Marquis de Brinvillier, was the principal agent in
this horrible business. A needy adventurer, named
Godin de St. Croix, had formed an acquaintance with
the Marquis during their campaigns in the Netherlands
-became at. Paris a constant visitor at his house,
where in a short time he found means to insinuate
himself into the good graces of the Marchioness.
It was not long before this Marquis died; not,
however, until their joint fortune was dissipated.
Her conduct, in openly carrying on this amour, in-
duced her father to have St. Croix arrested and sent
to the Bastile. Here be got acquainted with an
Italian, of the name of Exili, from whom he learnt .
the art of preparing poisons.
Digi '"d by Google
IATIO~S OF THE MARVELLOUS. 295
s imprisonment St. Croix was released,
to the Marchioness and instructed her
:der that she might employ it in better-
'tances of both. She assumed the ap-
un, distributed food to the poor, nursed
H6tel Dieu, and tried the strength of
tndetected, on these hapless wretches.
Chaussee, St. Croix's servant, to poi-
father, after introducing him into his
lso her brother, and endeavoured to
:er. A suspicion arose that they had
and the bodies were opened, but no
wed at this time. Their villainous
brought to light in the following man-
x, when preparing poison, was accus-
a glass mask; but, as this happened
off by accident, he was suffocated and
his laboratory. Government cauEed
this man, who had no family, to be
a list of them to be made out. On
n, there was found a small box, to
rc had affixed a written paper containing
after his death " it might be delivered
~ness de Brinvillier, who resides in the
St. Paul, as every thing it contains
and belongs to her alone ; and as,
is nothing in it that can be of use to
ept her; and in case she shall be dead
burn it, and every thing it contains,
,g or altering any thing ; and in order
1ay plead ignorance, I swear by God,
!, and all that is most sacred, that
296 TBACIUTURGIA, Oa
I advance nothing but what is true. And if my
intentions, just and reasonable as they are, be
thwarted in this point, I charge their consciences
with it, both in this world and the next, in order that
I may unload mine, protesting thatthis is my lastwill.
Done at Paris, this 15th May, in the afternoon, 1672.
De Sainte Croiz."
Nothing could be a greater inducemtmt to have it
opened, than this singular petition, and that being
done, there was found in it " great abundance of
poisons of every kind, with labels, on which their
effects proved, by experiments on animals, were
marked. The principal poison, however, was corro-
sive sublimate. When the Marchioness heard of the
death of her lover and instructor, she was desirous to
have the casket, and endeavoured to get poesession of
it by bribing the officers of justice; but as she ~ed
in this, she quitted the kingdom. La CbaU886e, how-
ever, continued at Paris, laid clailll to the property
of St. Croix, was seized and imprisoned, confessed
more acts of villainy than was sul!pected, and was in
consequence broke alive upon the wheel, in 1673.-
The Marchioness fled to England, and from thence
to Liege, where she took refuge in a convent. Dea-
grais, an officer of justice, was dispatched in pa.rsuit
of her, and having a11sumed the dress of an Abbe,
contrived to entice her from this privileged place.
Among her effects at the convent there was found a
confession, and a complete catalogue of all hercrimes, ·
in her own hand-writing. She was tsken to Paris,
convicted, and on the 16th of July, l676, publicly
beheaded, and afterwa.rc:\1 burnt.
BLUCID4TION8 OF THK MARVBLLOU8, 297
The practice of poisoning was not, however, sup-
pressed by this execution, and it was aseerted, that
canfessions of a auspicious nature were constantly
mv,de to the priests. A court for watching, search-
ing after, and punishing prisoners was at length es-
tablished in 169T, under the title of chambre depoison,
orchambre ardente. This was shortly used as a state
engine, against those who were obnoxious to the
court, and the names of individuals of the first rank,
both male and female, were prejudiced. Two females,
Ia Vigreux and la Voison were burnt alivt>,. by order
of this court, in February, 1680. But it was abolished
in the same year.
t Professor Beckman relates the following, as com-
municated to him by Linnreus : " Charles XI, King of
Sweden, having ruined several noble families by
se~ on their property, and having, after that,
made a journey to Torneo, he fell into a·consumptive
diaorder, which no medicine could cure. One day
he''asked his physician in a very earnest manner what
was the ~use of his illness. The phy~ician replied,
"Your Majesty has been loaded with too many
maledictions."-" Yes," returned the king, "I wish
to God that the reduction of the nobilities' estates had
not taken place, and that I had never undertaken a
journey to Torneo." After his death his intestines
were found to be full of small ulcers.
There has been a great diversity of opinions as to
the nature of these poisons. That prepared by Tofa-
nia appears to have been a clear insipid water, and
the sale of aqua fortis was for a long time forbiddeR
299 THAUIIATUII.GIA, OB
in Rome, because it was con~idered the principal in-
gredient. This, however, is not probable.
_In Paris, the famous poudre de succession (also a
secret poison) was at one time supposed to consist of
di11.mond dust, powdered exceedingly fine ; and at
another time, lo contain sugar of lead as the principal
ingredient. Haller was of this last opinion. In the
casket of St. Croix were found sublimate, opium,
rt>gulus of antimony, vitriol, and a large quantity of
poison ready prepared, the principal ingredients of
which the physicians were not able to detect. Garelli,
physician to Charles VI, King ofthe Two Sicilies, at
the time when Tofania was arrested, wrote to the
celebrated Hoffman, that the Aqua Tofania was no- •
thing else than crystallized arsenic, dissolved in a
large quantity of water by decoction, with the addi-
tion, (but for what purpose we know not) of the herb
Cymbalaria, (probably the Antirrhinum Cymbalaria).
And this information he observes, was communicated
to him by his imperial majesty himself, to whom the
judicial procedure, confirmed by the confession of
the criminal, was transmitted. But it was objected to
this opinion, that it differed from the ordinary effects
of arsenic, in never betraying itself by any particnlar
action on the human body.
The Abbe Gagliani, on the other hand, asserts that
it is a mixture of opium and cantharides, and that the
liquor obtained from its composition, .is as limpid as
rock water, and without taste. Its effects are slow,
and almost imperceptible. Beckman appears to fa-
vour this idea, and suggests that a similar poison
)JDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 2!)9
e East, under the name of powst, being
1d stood a night over the juice of pop-
g-iven to princes, whom it is wished to
vately ; and produces loss of strength
nding, so that they die in the end, torpid
e.*
ing extract will show that secret poison-
trated into the forests of America. " The
,ief, Blackbird of the Omawhaws, gained
ion as a medicine man; his adversaries
i>efore his potent spells. Hi~ medicine
furnished him for this purpose by the
he traders."t
Jl 1, p. 74 to 103.
•ong's expedition, vol. 1. p. 226.
,b,Coogle
300 TBA.UMATURGU., oa
CHAPTER XIX.
ON TBB ORIGIN AND 8UPBUTITIOU8 INVLUBNCB
OJ' RINGS.
Tax ancient magitjans, among other pretended ex-
traordinary powers ofaccomplishing wonderful things
by their superior knowledge of the secret powers of
nature, of the virtues of plants and minera].s, and of
the motions and influence of the stars, at1;ached no
small degree of mystic importance to rings, the ori-
gin of which, their matter and uses, together with
the supposed virtues of the stones set in them, afford
a subject squaring so much with our design, and so
deserving of notice from the curious, that no apology
need be made for discoursing on them.
According to the accounts of tlie heathen mytholo-
gists, Prometheus, who, in the first t;nnes, had disco-
vered a great number ofsecrets, having been delivered
from the charms, by which he was fastened to mount
Caucasus for stealing fire from heaven, in memory or
acknowledgment of the favour he received from Jupi.
ter, made himeelf of one of those chains, a ring, "-
whose collet he represented the figure of part of the
rock where he had been detained-or rather, as Pliny
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB JfABVBLLOUS. 301
•ys, set it in a bit of the same rock, and put it on
his finger. This was the first ring and the first stone.
Bot we otherwise Jearn, that the use of rings is very
ancient, and the Egyptians were the first inventors
of them ; which seems confirmed by the person of
Joseph, who, as we read (Genesis, chap, xi.) for
having interpreted Pharoah's dream, received not only
his liberty, bot was rewarded with his prince's ring,
acollar of gold, and the superintendancy of Egypt.
J011ephns, in the third book of Jewish antiquities
eays, the Israelites had the use .of them after passing
the Red Sea, because Moses at his return from Mount #
Sinai, found that they had forged thegolden calf from
their wives' rings, enriched with precious stones.
t The eame Moses, upwards of 400 years before the
wars of Troy, permitted the priests he had esta-
blished, the use of gold rings, enriched with
precious stones. · The high ~riest wore upon his
ephod, which was a kind of camail, rich rings, that
served as clasps ; a large emerald was set and
engraved with mysterio118 names. The ring he wore
on his finger was of inestimable value and celestial
virtue. Had not Aaron, the high priest of the He-
l brews, a ring on his finger, whereof the diamond, by
1 its virtues, operated prodigious things ? For it changed
its vivid lustre into a dark colour, when the Hebrews
were to be punished by death for their sins. When
they were to fall by the sword it appeared of a blood
colour; if they were innocent it sparkled as ueual:
It is observable that the ancient Hebrews used
riags even in the time of the wars of Troy. Queen
Jezebel, to destroy Nabath, as it is related in the first
Digi '"d by Google
302 THA l.JMATURGIA., OR
Book ofKings, made use of the ring of Ahab, King of
the Israelites, her husband, to seal the counterfeit
letters that ordered the death of that unfortunate
man. Did not Judah, as mentioned in the 38th chap-
ter of Genesis, abuse his daughter-in-law, Thamar,
who had disguised herself, by giving her his ring and
bracelets, as a pledge of the faith he had promised
her?
Though Homer is silent in regard to rings, both in
his Iliad and Odyssey, they were, notwithstanding,
used in the time of the Greeks and Trojans; and from
• them they were received by several other nations. The
Lacedemonians, as related by Alexander, ab. Alexan-
dro, pursuant to the orders of their king, Lycurgus.
had only iron rings, despising those of gold; either
their ·king was thereby willing to retrench lWiiury,
or to prohibit the use of them.
The ring was reputed, by some nations, a symbol of
liberality, esteem, and friendship, particularly among
the Persians, none being permitted to wear my, except
they were given by the king himself. This is what
may also be remarked in the person of Apollonius
Thyaneus, as a token of singular esteem and libera-
lity, received one from the great Iarchas, prince of
the Gymnosophists, who were the ancient priests of
India and dwelt in forests, as· our ancient bardls
and druids, where they applied themselves to the
study of wisdom, and to the speculation of the heaven
and stars. This philosopher, by the means of that
ring,leamed every day the secrets of nature.
Though the ring found by Gyges, shepherd to the
King of Lydia, has more of fable than of truth in it~
Digi '"d by Google
I 4Sf.' --
I
~
r
I BLUCJi!!ATIONS OF THE IIARVRLLOUS. 303
it will not, however, be amiss, to relate what is said
concerning Herodotus, Crel)r.ls, after Plato and Cicero,
in the third book of his 6ffices. This Gyges, after a
great flood, passed into a very deep cavity in the earth,
where having found in the belly of a brazen horse,
'with a large aperture in it, a human body of enormous
size, he pulled from off one of the fingers a ring of
surpriPing virtue ; for the sUtne on the collet rendered
him who wore it invisible, when the collet was turned
towards the palm of the hand, so that the party could
see, without being seen, all manner of persons and
thin~. Gyges, having made trial of its efficacy, •
bethought himselfthat it would be a means for ascend-
ing the throne of Lydia, and for gaining the Queen
by it. He succeeded in his designs, having killed
Candaules, her husband. The dead body this ring
belonged to was that of a1'1 ancient Brahman, who, in
his time, was chief of that sect.
The rings of the ancients often served for seals.
Alexander the Great, after the death and defeat of
Darius, used his ring for sealing the letters he sent into
Asia, and his own for those he sent to Europe. It is
customary in Rome for the bridegroom to.send the .
bride, before murriage, a ring of iron, without either
' 8tone or collet, to denote how lastingtheir union ought
to be, and ~he frugality they wert- to observe to-
gether; but luxury ·herein soon gained ground, and
there was a necessity for moderating it. Caius Marius
did .not wear one of gala till his third consulship ;
and Tiberius, as Suetonius says. made some regula-
tions in ' the authority of wearing .rings; for, be-
sides the liberty of birth, he required a considerable
revenue, both on the father and grandfather's side.
o'''ti"dbvGoogle
304 TBAt:MATUROJA, (iR
In a Polyglot dictionary, published in the year 1625,
byJohn Minshew, ourattentionwas attracted bythe fol-
lowingobservations, underthe article" Rn10 FINGBR.."
- Vetus versiculus singulis digitis Annulum trebuens
Miles. Mercator. Stultus. Maritus. Amator. Pollici ·
adscribitur Militi, seu Doctor. Mercatorem a pollice
secundum, stultorum, tertium. Nuptorum vel studios-
. orum quartum. Amatorum ultimum.''
By which it appears, that the fingers on which annuli
were anciently worn were directed by the calling, or
peculiarity of the party. Were it
A soldier, or doctor, to him was assigned the thumb.
A sailor, the finger next the thumb.
A fool, the middle finger.
A marriedor diligent person, thefourthor ring finger.
A lover, the last or little finger.
The medicinal or curative power of rings are nume-
rous and, as a matter of course, founded on imagin~ry
qualities. Thus the wedding ring rubbing upon that-
little abscess called the stye, which is frequently seen
on the tarsi of the eyes, is said to remove it. Certain
ringS are worn as· talismans, either on the fingers or
suspended from the neck; the efficacy ()f which f!l~Y
be referred to the effects usually produced by the8e
charms.
•
Digi '"d by Google
[)ATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 305
CHAPTER XX.
~FLUENCES -OMENS -CLIMACTERICS-
,TIONS-LUCKY AND UNLUCKY DAYS-
&c.
:Rs, among other artifices, have used their
1rs, and employed all the rules of their
r those years of our age, which they call
dangerous and formidable.
climacteric is derived from the Greek,
>y a scale or ladder, and implies a critical
~riod in a man's age, wherein, accord
~cal juggling, there is some notable alter-
in the body, and a person stands in great
lth. The first climacteric is the seventh
n's life; the others are multiples of the
49, 56, 63, and 84, which two last are
rand climacterics and the danger more
~ foundation of this opinion.is accounted
Ficinus as follows :-There is a year, he
:ned for each planet to rule over the body
h of his turn ; now Saturn being the most
nalignant) planet of all, every seventh
X
",Coogle
306 TBAUIIATURGIA, OR
year, which falls to its lot, becomes very dangerous ;
especially those of sixty-three and eighty-four, when
the person is already advanced in years. According
to this doctrine, some hold every seventh year an
established climacteric; but others only allow the title
to those produced by multiplication of the climacterical
space by an odd number, 3, 6, 7, 9, &c. Others ob-
serve every ninth year as a climacteric.
Climacteric years are pretended, by some, to be
fatal to political bodies, which, perhaps, may be
granted, when they are proved to be so more than
to natural ones ; for it must be obvious that the reHSon
of such danger can by no means be discovered, nor
the relation it can have with any other of the nun1ben
above mentioned.
Though this opinion has a great deal of antiquity
on its side; Aulus Gellius says--it was borrowed from
the Chaldeans, who possibly might receive it from
Pythagoras, whose philosophy teemed much in num-
ber!.', and who imagined a very extraordinary virtue
in the number ; . The principal authors on climacte-
rics are-Plato, Cicero, Macrobius, Aulus Gellius.
Among the ancients-Argal, Magirus, and Solma-
theus. Among the moderns-St. Augustine, St.
Ambrose, Beda and Boethius, all countenance the
opinion.
There is a work extant, though rather scarce, by
Hevelius, under the title of Annus Climactericus,
wherein he describes the loss he sustained by his
observatory, &c. being burnt; wh.ch it would appear
happened in his grand climacteric, of which he was
extremely apprehensive.
rAstrologers have also brought under their inspection
lo:Lt:CIDATIONS OF 'IHK IIARVELLOCS. 307
and controul the days of the year, which they have
presumed to divide into lucky and unlucky days ;
calling even the sacred scriptures, and the common
belief of christians, in former ages, to their assistance
for this purpose. They pretend that the fourteenth
day of the first month was a blessed day among the
Israelites, authorised, as they pretend, by the several
passages out of Exodus, v. 18 :-
" In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the
month at even, ye shall eat unleavened bread, until
the one and twentieth day at even," v. 40. Now,
the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in
Egypt. was four hundred and thirty years.
4 1. " And it came to pass, at the end of the four
hundred and thirty years, even the self same day it
came to pass, that all the hosts of the Lord went out
from the land of Egypt."
42. " It is a night to be much observed unto the
Lord for bringing them out of the land of Egypt ;
that is that night of the Lord to be observed of all
the children of Israel, in their generations."
51. " And it came to pass, the self same day, that
the Lord did bring the children of Israel out of the
land of Egypt by their armies." Also Leviticus,
chap. 28, v~ 5, " In the fourteenth day of the first
month at even, is the Lord's passover." Numbers,
chap. 28, v. 16. " Four hundred and thirty years
being expired of their dwelling in Egypt, even in
the self 1ame day they departed thence."
With regard to evil days and times, Astrologers
refer to Amos. chap. 6, v. l3. '' Therefore, the prn-
x2
Digi '"d by Google
sos THAUMATC&OIA, OR
dent shall keep silence in that time, for it is an evil
time," and chap. 6, v. 3, "Ye that put far away the
evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come near;"
also Psalm 37, v. 19, "They shall not be ashamed in
the evil time ; and in the days of famine, they shall
be satisfied;" and Jeremiah, chap. 46, v. 21, " Also
her hired men are in the midst of her, like fatted
b•ulocks, for they are also turned back and are fled
away together; they did not stand because the day of
their calamity was come upon them, and the time of
their visitation." And to Job cursing the day of his
birth, from the first to the eleventh verse. In confirma-
tion ofwhich may also be quoted a calendar, extracted
out of several ancient Roman Catholic prayer books,
written on vellum, before printing was invented, in
which were inserted the unfortunate days of each
month, which it would be superfluous to cite here.*
Roman History sufficiently proves that the nature
of lucky and unlucky days owes its origin to Paganism;
where it is mentioned, that that very day four years,
the civil wars were begun by Pompey, the father ;
Cresar made an end of them with his son, Cneius
Pompeius being slain ; and that the Romans counted
the 13th of February an unlucky day, because, on
that day they were overthrown by the Gauls at Alba;
and the Fabii attacking the city of the Recii, were all
slain, with the exception of one man; also from the
calendar of Ovid's " Fastorum," Aprilis erat mensis
Grn:cis auspicatissimus; and from Horace, Book 2nd,
Ode 13, cursing the tree that had nearly fallen upon it;
ill~ nefasto posuit die.
• See Demonologia, by J. S. F. p. 40.
Digi '"d by Google
IATJO!i!S OF THE MARVELLOUS. 30!)
s believed there were particular months
ich carried something fatal in them ;
ance, upon which the state perhaps had
'attle ; and under this impression, they
10k any enterprise on these days and
: twenty-fourth of February in the Bi-
vas considered so unlucky, that Valen-
am. Marcell. lib. 26. cap. l.) being
ror upon it, durst not appear in public
1rehension of suffering the fatality of
ny other particular days might be quot-
h generals of armies have constantly
with fortune. · Timoleon (Corn. Nepos)
nous battles on his birthday. Soliman
ist. des Turcs) won the battle of Mohac,
ortress of Belgrade, and, according to
,s, the Isle of Rhodes, and the town of
26th of August. But we find, in like
arne day lucky and unlucky to the same
idius, at the head of the Roman army,
arthians, and slew their young king
ommanded them, on the same day that
1
er Roman general, had been slain, and
ny cut in pieces by the same people.
tg attacked Tigranes, king of Armenia,
tg the vain scruples of his officers, who
J beware fighting on that day, which
he Roman calendar as an unlucky one,
fatal overthrow of the Romans by the
e, (Lucullus) despising the superstition,
the most memorable battles recorded
tory, and changed the destiny of the
•
310 THAUMATURGIA, OR
day, as he promiaed those who would have dissuafed
him from the enterprise. And Valentinian's unlucky
day was that on which Charles V, another Roman
Emperor, promised himself the best good fortune.
Friday is deemed an unlucky day for engaging in any
particular business, and there are few, if any, captains
of ships who would sail from any port, on this day of
the week for their destination.
The fishermen who dwell on the coasts of the Baltic
never use their nets between All.saints and St Mar-
tin's; they would then be certain of not taking any
fish through the whole year : they never fish on St
Blaise's day. On Ash Wednesday the women neither
sew nor knit, for fear of bringing misfortune upon
their cattle. They contrive so as not to use fire on
St. Laurence's day; by taking this precaution they
think themselves secure against fire for the rest ofthe
year. .
This prejudice of lucky and unlucky days has ex-
isted at all times and in all nations ; but if knowledge
and civilization have not removed it, they have at
least diminished its influence. In Livonia, however,
the people are more than ever addicted to the most
superstitious ideas on this subject. In a Riga journal
(Rigaische Stadblatter, No. 3657, anno 1822, edited
by M. Sontag) there are several passages relative to
a letter from heaven, and which is no other than a ca-
talogue of lucky and unlucky days. This letter is in
general circulation; every body carries it about hidl,
and though strictly forbidden by the police, the co-
pies are multiplied so profusely as to increase the evil
all attempts to destroy which hav(l hitherto failed.
Digi '"d by Google
A.TIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS, 311
ntry people this idea is equivalent to the
:ality; and if they commit faults or
n the days which are marked as un-
not consider themselves as guilty, be-
e predestined.
'certain birds, or the meeting of certain
~ir first going out in the morning, are
d or bad omens. They do not hunt on
r St. Catherine's day, on penalty of
!sful all the rest of the year. It is a
sneeze on Christmas day. Most of
•repossessed against Friday, that they
ay important business, or conclude a
t day ; in some places they do not even
1ildren. They do not like visits on
r it is a sign they shall have trouble"
he whole week.
;ricts of Esthonia, up the Baltic, when
rings his flocks back from the pasture, in
rst time, he is sprinkled with water from
r1der the persuasion that this makes the
The malignity of beasts of prey is be-
prevented by designating them not by
.ames, but by some of their attributes.
they call the fox hallkuhl (grey coat)
atyk (broad-foot), etc. etc. They also
:y can oblige the wolf to take another
.rewing salt in his way. The howling
pecially at day-break, is considered a
n, predicting famine or disease. In
times, it was imagined that these ani-
•
312 TBAUKATVRGlA, OR
mals, thus asked their god to give them food, which
he threw them out of the clouds. When a wolf
seizes any of their cattle, they can oblige him to
quit his prey, by dropping a piece of money, their
pipe, hat, or any other article they have about
them at the time. They do not permit the hare
to be often mentioned, for fear of drawing it into
their com-fields. To make hens lay eggs, they beat
them with an old broom. In families where the.
wife is the eldest child of her parents, it has been
observed that they always sell the first calves, being
convinced, that, if kept, they would not thrive. To
speak of insects or mischievous animals at meal-times,
is a sure way to make them more voracious.
If a fire breaks out, they think to stop its fury
by throwing a black hen into the flames. This
idea, of an expiatory sacrifice, offered to a male-
volent and tutelary power, is a remnant of paganism.
Various other traces of it are found among the
Esthonians ; for instance, at the beginning of their
meals, they purposely let fall a piece of new bread,
or some drops of liquor from a bottle as an offer-
ing to the divinity.
It is very offensive J;o the peasants, for any one .
to look into their wells ; they think it will cause the
wells to dry up.
When manna is carried into the fields, that wh ich
falls from the cart is not gathered up, lest mis-
chievous insects and blights come upon the com.
When an old house is quitted for a new one
they are attentive in noting the first animal that
dies. If it be an animal with hairy feet, the sign
Digi '"d by Google
'l
.............--~------ - ----~---
BLUCIDATION8 OP TBB MARVELLOUS. 3 13
is good ; but if with naked feet, some fowl, for
instance, there will be mourning in the house ; it is
a sign of misery and bad succees in all their under-
takings. These, with a scrupulous adherence to lucky
and unlucky days, are the prevailing popular super-
stitions in the three duchies ; a great number of
which, especially among the Esthonians, are connected
with their ancient mythology.
In reading that pleasant volume, by the late Sir
Humphrey Davy, entitled Salmonia, it is impossible
not to be struck with his remark respectin~omens,
which is here briefly noticed, with an account of
others, which it is imagined have not yet found their
way far into print, in order to account for such
seeming absurdities.
" The search after food,* as we agreed •on a
former occasion, is the principal cause why anim•s
change their places. The different tribes of wading
birds always migrate when rain is about to take
place ; and I remember once in Italy, having been
long waiting, in the end of March, for the arrival
of double mipe, in the campagna of Rome ; a great
flight appeared on the third of April, and the day
after, heavy rain set in, which greatly interfered
with my sport. The vulture, upon the same prin-
ciple, follows armies ; and I have no doubt that the
augury of the ancients was a good deal founded
upon the observation of the instinct of birds. There
are many superstitions of the vulgar owing to the
same source'. For anglers, in spring, it is always
• See Magazine of Natural History, April, 1830.
314 TBAUMATUilGIA, Oil
unluckly to see single magpies ; but two may always
be regarded llS a favourable omen ; and the reason
is, that in cold and stormy weather, one magpie
alone leaves the nest in search of food, the other'
remaining sitting upon the eggs of the young ones :
but, when two go out together, it is only when
the weather is mild and warm, and favourable for
fishing.
" This reasoning will, in general, be found correct,
and may he applied to solve many of the supersti-
tions in the country ; but the case of the magpie
is entit'd to a little more consideration. The pian-
net, llS we call her in the North of England, is
the most unlucky of all birds, to see singly at any
time ; this, however, does not often happen, except
a short time during incubation ; they either appear
il• pafrs or in families ; but even this lllSt appear-
ance is as alarming to our grandmothers. The fol-
lowing distich shows what each forbodes :-' One
sorrow, two mirth, three a wedding, four death.'
This bird, indeed, appears to have taken the same
place with us, as an omen of evil, that the owl
had amongst the ancients. The nurse is often heard
to declare that she hilS lost all hopes of her charge
when she hilS observed a piannet on the house-top.
" Another prejudice, indulged even by our good
wives, is that of destroying the feathers of the pigeon
instead of saving them to stuff beds, etc. They say,
that if they were to do so, it would only prolong
the sufferings of the death-bed ; and when theee
are more than usually severe, it is attributed to
this cause, and the rellSon given ' because the bird
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. 315
has no gall,' is to them quite conclusive, but to me,
perfectly irrelevant and unsatisfactory. A belief
amongst boys, that to harm or disturb the nests
of the redbreast or swallow is unlucky, appears very
general throughout the kingdom ; and the keen bird-
nester, who prides himself on the quantity of eggs
blown and strung bead-fashion, here often gets mor-
tified by finding his trophies destroyed by the house-
wife who considers their presence as affecting the
safety of her crokery ware. This belief may have
been encouraged, if not invented, for a humane
purpose : but how are we to account for the efficacy
of the Irish stone in curing swellings caused by
venomous reptiles, by merely being rubbed upon the
part affected ? The fullest faith in the practice ap-
pears to have prevailed in the country at no distant
period, and is yet far from extinct. The swallow and
the cuckoo are generally hailed as harbingers of spring
and summer, but, perhaps, many of our readers
are not aware that it is only lucky to hear the cuckoo,
for the first time in the season, upon soft ground
in contradistinction to hard roads, and with money
in the pocket, which the youngster is sagely advised
to be sure then to tum over. Perhaps the season
of the year may satisfactorily explain all these ob-
servances. Several superstitious customs are men-
tioned regarding. bees, some of which are not
practised in the north ; yet it is fully believed that
the death of the stock of hives too often foretells
the flitting of the bee-master. Wet cold years,
unfavourable to the insects, are also equally so
to the farmer upon thin clays, which border the
·~
3l6 TRAU.MATURGJA, OR
moors, where bees are mo~tly kept. Has the use
of the mountain ash, 1 rowan tree' [Pyrus aucuparia,
Gtt'rtner,] as a chann against witchcraft, ever been
accounted for ? The belief ·in its efficacy must be
very old if we are to credit some of .Shakspeare's
commentators, who give this word as the true reading
in Macbeth, instead of 1 Aroint thee, witch !'
" It often happens that the careless observer has,
for the first time, his attention called forcibly to
some appearance of nature by accidental circum-·
stances : if at all superstitious, he immediately pro-
gnosticates the most disastrous consequences from
that which a little observation would have convinced
him was but a phenomenon a little more conspicuoUs
than usual. The northern lights are said to have
ca•.t-Sed much consternation when first observed ; and
they have lately been viewed with more than or-
dinary interest, as it appears from the Newcastle
Chronicle, the last autumn (1830), when they were
more than usually brilliant, some of the inhabitants
of Weardale were convinced they saw, on one occa-
sion, very distinctly, the figure of a man on a
white horse, with a red sword in his hand, move
across the heavens ; and are, no doubt, now certain
that it foretold the prel!ent eventful times. Even
this belief may be accounted for on such accidental
coincidences, or even philosophically, by assuming
as a fact that this phenomenon is the result of an
electrical change in the atmosphere, and that ·such
a change usually precedes rain. Now, if such hap-
pen in spring or in summer, and before such a
quantity of rain as is found to affect the harvest.
Digi '"d by Google
DATIO;\IS OF THE MAllVELLCUS. 317
ften betoken scarcity, discontent, and
; such are the times when all griev-
real or imaginary, are brought for-
ress. The origin of the superstition
f nailing a horse-shoe to the mast,
accountable, unless it may have been,
lowing trial of the credulity of the
by some person for amusement :-Sai-
~s make a considerable pecuniary sa-
le acquisition of a child's caul, the
'hich is to infallibly preserve them from
rs ago, a pretty wide distrid was alarmed
tt of the beans [Faba vulgaris var.
laid the wrong way in the pod that
ao~t certainly forebodetl something ter-
m in a short time, and this produced
ion amongst those who allow their
to run riot. The whole of the terrible
1is : the eye of the bean was in the
the apex, instead of being towards
as might appear at first sight to be
'sition ; and some were scarcely con-
this was the natural position of the
: pod ever since the creation, even
lWD the pod of the preceding year
i in the same position.
10wever, I fear we must sum up in the
r:-
lt how can you explain such absurdities
ng an unlucky day, and the terror of
1r meeting an old woman ?
•
TBAUMATURGIA, OR
"Poiet. These, as well as the omens ofdeath-watchet,
dreams, etc. are founded upon some accidental coinci-
dences ; but spilling ofsalt, on an uncommon occasion,
may, as I have known it, arise from a disposition to
apoplexy, shown by an incipient numbness in the
hand, and may be a fatal symptom ; and persons
dispirited by bad omens sometimes prepare the way
for evil fortune, for confidence of success is a great
means of insuring it. The dream of Brutus before ,!he
battle of Philippi probably produced a species of
irresolution and despondency which was the prin-
cipal cause of his losing the battle ; and I have heard
that the illustrious sportsman, to whom you referred
just now, was always observed to shoot ill, because
he shot carelessly, after one of his dispiriting omens.
"Hal. I h!lve in life met with a few things which
I have found it impossible to explain, either by
chance coincidences, or by natural .ections, and
I have known minds of a very superior class affected
by them-persons in the habit of reasoning deeply
and profoundly."
The number of remarkable events that happened
on some particular days, have been the principal
means of confirming both pagans and christians
in their opinions on this subject. For instance,
Alexander who was born on the sixth of April,
conquered Darius, and died on the same day. The
Emperor Basianus Caracalla was born, and died on
the sixth day of April. Augustus was adopted
on the 19th of August, began his consulate, con-
quered the TriumYiri, and died the same dav. The
christians have observed that the 24th of February
';g;,;,d by Coogle
~--
BLtrCJDATJONS OF THI!: MARV.ELLOtrS. 319
was four times fortunate to Charles the fifth. That
Wednesday was a fortunate day to Pope Sixtus the
fifth ; for on a Wednesday he was born, on that day
made a monk, on the same day made a general
of his order, on that day created a Cardinal, on
that day elected Pope, and also on that day in-
augurated. That Thursday was a fatal day to Henry
the eighth, King of England, and his posterity,
forahe died on a thursday ; King Edward the
sii!L on a Thursday ; Queen Mary on a Thursday ;
and Queen Elizabeth on a Thursday.
The French hav4t observed that the feast of Pen-
tecoste had been lucky to Henry III, King of France
for on that day he was born, on that day elected
King of Poland, and on that day he succeeded his
brother Charles IX, on the throne of France.
There are critical days obsE'.rved by physicians,
in continued ftvers, a doctrine which has been con-
firmed by the nnited testimony of De Haen and
Cullen ; and these are the 3rd. 5th. 7th. 9th. llth.
14th. 17th. and 20th. By critical days are meant,
any of the above days, on which the fever abates
or terminates favourably, or on which it is ex-
acerbated or terminates fatally.
Natural astrology is confined to the study of
exploring natural effects, in which sense it is ad-
mitted to be a part of natural philosophy. It
was under this view that Mr. Goad, Mr. Boyle,
and Dr. Mead, pleaded for its use. The first en-
deavours to account for the diversity of seasons from
the situations, habitudes and motions of the planets :
and to explain an infinity of phenomena by the
Digi '"d by Google
320 TBAUIIATUJlGIA, Oil
contemplation of the stars. The Honourable Mr.
Boyle admitted, that all physical .bodies are in-
fluenced by the heavenly bodies; and Doctor Mead's
opinioJl, in his treatise concerning the power of the
sun and moon, etc. is in faTour of the doctrine.
But these predictions and influences are ridiculed
and entirely exploded by the most esteemed modem
philosophers, of which the reader may have a learned
specimen in Rohault's, Tractat. Physic, partfi1.
c. 27.
The diseases of men, women, and· children were
supposed at times to be more 41nmediately caused
by the influence of the seven planets. In order
to comprehend this exploded doctrine, we shall here
set down the pretended governing and days, at what
time they are supposed to have the most influence :
0 Sol, or the sun governs on iunday.
»
J
~
~
!i
1f.
Luna, or the moon,
Mars,
Mercury,
Jupiter,
Venus,
Saturn,
Monday.
Tuesday.
Wednesday.
Thursday.
Friday.
Saturday.
Saturn reigning, is said to cause cold diseases, as
the gout, leprosy, palsy, quartan agues, dropsies,
catarrhs, colds, rheumatisms, etc.
Jupiter causes cramps, numbness, inflamml_ltions of
the liver, head·aches, pains in the shoulders, flatu-
lency, inflammatory fevers, and all disease scaused
by putrefaction, apoplexy, and quinsies.
BLUCJDATJONS OP TBB MARVELLOUS. 321
Mars, acute fevers and tartan agues, continual.and
intermitting fevers, imposthumes, erisepelas, car-
btmcles, fistuias, dysentery, and similar hot and
dry diseases.
Sol causes rheums in the eyes, coldness in the
stomach and liver, syncope, catarrhs, pustular erup-
tions, hysterics, eruptions on the lower extremi-
ties.
Venus causes sores, lientery, hysteria, sickness at
the stomach, from cold and moist causes, disorders
of the liver and lungs.
Mercury causes hoarseness and distempers in the
senses, impediments in the speech, falling sickness,
coughs, jaundice, vomiting, catarrhs.
The moon causes palsy, cholic, dropsy, imposthumes,
dysenteries, and all diseases arising from obstructed
circulation.
The means laid down for the prevention of these
diseases are rational enough, at least some of them,
such as temperance, moderate bleeding (whether or
not indicated we are not told,) the use of laxatives at
seasonable times, when a friendly planet, opposite to
the malignant planet you were born under, has
dominion, by which the effect of its influence will be
much abated, and a power given to nature to oppose
its malevolency, which, " if well heeded, may be
a main prevention of dangerous diseases." Thus
every planet in the heavens carries with it a diseased
aspect,.without, as it would appear, possessing any
repelling or sanative powers to correct or ward off
the sickly influence it is supposed to entertain over
the life and limbs of frail mortals ; that, in the sense
y
Digi '"d by Google
~
.oAiiiiiJZiilliiiiii;-·jIll
322 TBAUIIATU&GJA, Oil
of this absurd doctrine, or rather jargon, when Ju-
piter baa dominion, it will be neceesary to bleed and
take calomel to guard against (not to attack it when
it baa taken place) inflammation of the liver; and
when Man preeidee, to send immediately for Van
Butchel to frighten away an imaginary fietula-eb.
surd and ridiculoue nonsenee, too prevalent even at
the present day; for what can bleeding and phy-
eickiDg at ~ spring and fall of.the year be called
but operations without reason, under euppoeitious
stellar influence. " Observe also to gather all yoll!'
physic herbs in the hour of the friendly planet.
that-temporieee with what you were hom under, and
in so doing they will have more Btrength, power, and
virtue to operate in the medicines ; but neitherphysic
nor bleed on the third of January, the last of April,
the first of July, the first of Auguet, and the last
and second day of October ; for those astrologers,
with whom physicians join, conclude it perilous, by
reason of the bad influence then reigning ; and if it
change not the distemper into another worse, it will
augment it, and put the party in great danger of
death, if he or alae in thia Cfl8e be not lucky to escape."
It would be a waste of words to offer a single com-
ment on such egregioue stuff-" do not bleed on
the third of January," nor on such and such a day,
( as if there could be stated times for bleeding
beyond those which are indicated by the presence
of disease, and requiring such evacuation,) is a
practice we believe peculiar only to astrologers,
and those who believe in such demonological-cant.
It is no less, however, a singular fact that men
Digi '"d by Google
.ILtrCIDATIONB ~I' TBB MABVBLLOOS, 323
distinguished in every other respect for their learn-
ing, should most particularly have indulged in the
8Uper8tition of judicial astrology. At. the present
time a belief in such subjects can only exist with
those who may be said to have no beliefat all ; for
mere traditional sentiments can hardly be said to
amount to a belief.
It was astronomy that gave rise to judicial as-
trology, which, offering an ample field to enthu-
siasm and imposture, was eagerly pursued by many
who had no scientific purpose in view. It was con-
nected with various juggling tricks and deceptions,
aft'ected an obscure jargon of language, and insinu-
ated itself into every thing in which the hopes and
fears of mankind were concerned. The professors of
this pretended science were at first generally persons
of mean education, in whom low cunning supplied
the place of knowledge. Most of them engaged in
the empirical practice of physic, and some through
the credulity of the times, even arrived at a degree
of eminence in it ; yet although the whole foundation
of their art was folly and deceit, they nevertheless
gained many proselytes'and dupes, both among the
well-informed and the ignorant.
About the middle of the seventeenth century, the
passion for horoscopes and expounding the stars pre-
vailed in France among people of the first rank.
The new-born child was usually presented naked to
the star-expotmder, who read the first lineaments on
its forehead, and the transve~ lines in its hands,
and thence wrote down its future destiny. It has been
reported of several persons famous for their astrologi-
Y2
Digi '"d by Google
3:H TBAU31ATUROlA, OR
cal skill, that they have suffered a voluntary death
merely to verify their own predictions. It is curious
to observe the shifts to which these rcise men were
frequently put when their predictions-were not veri-
fied. Great winds at one time were predicted by a
famous adept in the art, but no unusual storms hav-
ing happened, to save the reputation of the art,
the prediction was applied figuratively to some revo-
lutions in the state, of which there were instances
enough at that time.
The life of the famous Lilly the astrologer, and
the Sidrophel of Butler, written by himself, is a
curious work, containing much artless narrative, but
at the same time, so much palpable imposture, that it
is difficult to know when he is speaking what he
really believes to be the truth. In a sketch of the
state of astrology in his day, the adepts whose cha-
l"acters he has drawn were the lowest miscreants of
the town. They all, indeed, speak of each other as
rogues and impostors ; among whom were Booker,
George Wharton, and Gadbury, who gained a liveli-
hood by practising on the credulity of even men of
learning so late as t 650 to the 18th century. In Ash-
mole's life an account of these artful impostors may
be read. Most of them had taken the air in the
pillory, and others had conjured themselves up to the
gallows.
To theastrologers ofthe.17th century,the quacks and
impostors of the beginning of the 19th are only equal.
Quackery and astrology,the latter ofwhich often served
as a mask to the former, appear to have been at one
time a kind of Castor and Pollux; quackery, how-
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' THB MARVELLOUS. 325
~ver, it would seem has outlived astrology, for there
are more who would swallow the nostrum of the
quack than the flatulent bolus of the fortune-tellers.
Both still have their votaries. One Grigg, a poul-
terer in Surrey, was set in the pillory at Croyden,
(Temp. Edw. IV,) and again in the Borough, for
cheating people out of their money by pretending to
cure them with charms, by simply looking at the
patients, or by practices still more absurd and ques-
tionable. Of such doctors there is no lack. This
kind of practice offers one of the finest fields for
deception of any species of empirical delusion held
out to the public at the present day. Such indeed is
the infatuation and credulity of the ignorant that, '
we are confidently assured, a notorious German
quack bad within one year so many half-guinea
applications that he netted £2000 ; and that the
glass bottles in which the precious nostrums were con-
veyed from the sanctum sanctorum of the mendacious
empiric in high Germany, who made his debut in
this country by hawking about Dutch drops, amounted
to as many two-pences. To those of either sex, who
are weak-minded enough to trust their lives to the
rash artifices of an ignorant pretender who affects t9
discover an occult quality in the constitution of the
patient denoting the existence of some internal com-
plaint beyond that which less equivocal symptoms
sufficiently present to the eye and knowledge of the
regular practitioner-we can only say that we con-
ceive them to be justly punished in the loss of their
money, and the consequent ruin of their health• .
In Stow's Chronicle we find that one of the11e !!aid
326 THAUIIATURGIA, OR
gentleme. wa.s set on horseback, his face towards
the tail, which he held in his hand in the manner of a
bridle, while with a collar significative of his
offence, dangling about his neck, he made a public
entree into the city of London, conducted by Jack
Ketch, who afterwards did himself the honour of
scourging and branding the impostor, previous to
banishment, which completed his sentence. In the
reign of James I, a terrible sweep wa.s made among
the quacks and advertising gentry. The council
dispatched a warrant to the magistrates of the city of
London, to take up all reputed quacks, and bring
them before the censors of the college, to examine
how properly qualified they were to be trusted, either
with the limbs or lives of his majesty's lieges. This
is all that is required at the present day. Let the
legislature controul this department iuste&d of the
college of physicians, who, as a body, can boast of
as large an allowance of licensed ignorance as any
corporate set of men in existence. We say nothing
of surgery, for this branch of knowledge leaves the
world generally something to look at, hence so few
pretenders to it ; but physic buries all its blemishes
with the unfortunate victim.
The country, even in this age of progressing wis-
dom, is deluged with quack medicines, which credu-
lous people say are not directed against the constitu-
tion, but only against the pocket, and that they are too
insipid to do either good or harm ; but were this the
case, there would have been no occasion for the exem-
plary punishments with which it is recorded quacks
of all sorts have at various times been visited.
Digi '"d by Google
"' :;::4. $$
BLUCIDATIONI OJ' THE MARVBLLOUII. 327
Be it known. there can be no such thing invented
by man as an universal remedy to prevent or cure
all kinds of diseases; because that which would
agree with one constitution would disagree with
another differently organised ; and a quack nos-
trum, such as we see daily advertised, may cer-
tainly agree at one stage of a disease, but might
go far in killing the patient at another. Besides.
all these boasted specifics have been found to be
either inert, ineffectual, or dangerous, and every
pretender to them, in times less enlightened by the
general march of intellect, baa been convicted either
of gross ignorance or dishonesty. No one can vouch
with certainty for any particular kind of medicine,-
that it will agree with this or that individual, until
acquainted with his peculiar constitution ; con-
sequently it is the heighth of absurdity to pre-
scribe physic for a man without a knowledge of
such circumstances to direct him. Amulets, talis-
mans, charms. and incantations, are innocent and
innoxious, and may impose only on credulity with-
out any other untoward consequence, leaving the
patient in the same state in "lVhich he was found ;
but so much cannot be said for quacks and quack-
medicines which frequently remove their deluded
victims far beyond the reach of either physic or
philosophy.
Butler is said to be the author of the following
character of a quack ; and who can read it without
being astonished at the prophetic intelligence with
which it abounds, and which, unfortunately, ad-
mits of a too close analogy with some very
Digi '"d by Google
328 TBAUMATURGIA, 0&
recent and untoward events, in the annals of
modem empiricism, " He is a medicine-monger,
probationer of receipts, and Doctor Epidemic ; he
is perpetually putting his medicines upon their trial,
and very often finds them GUILTY OP MANSLAUGBTBR,
but still they have some trick or other to come oft",
and avoid burning by the hand of the hangman. He
prints his trials of skill, and challenges death at
so many several weapons ; that, though he is sure
to be foiled by every one, he cares not: for,
if he can but get money, he is 8ttre to get off ; for
it is but posting up diseases for poltroons in all the
public places of the town, and daring them to meet
him again, and his credit stands as fair with the
rabble, as ever it did. He makes nothing * * *
* * * * * * * *;but will undertake to cure
them and tie one hand behind him, with so much ease
and freedom, that his patients may surfeit and
get drunk as often as they please, and follow their
business without any inconvenience to their health
or occasions; and recover with so much secrecy,
that they shall never know how it comes about.
He professes "no cure no pay," as well he may,
for if nature does the work, he is paid for it ;
if not, he neither wins nor loses ; and like a
cunning rook lays his bet1:1 so artfully, that, let
the chance be what it will, he either wins or
saves. He cheats the rich for their money,
and the poor for chario/, and, if either succe~,
both are pleased, and he passes for a very just
and conscientious man : for as those that pay nothing
ought at least to speak well of their entertainments,
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS 01" THB MARVELLOUS, 329
their testimony makes way for those who are.able
to pay for both. He finds he has no reputation
among those that know him, and fears he is never
like to have, and, therefore, posts up his bills, to
see if he can thrive better amongst those who
know nothing of him. He keeps his post con-
tinually, and will undertake to maintain it against
all. the plagues ·of Egypt. He sets up his trade'
upon a pillar, or the corner of a street-These
are his warehouses, where all he has is to be seen,
and a great deal more ; for he that looks further
finds nothing at all!'
ABSURDITIES OJ' PARACBLSU8, AND VAN HBLMONT.
Although some of the first chemists were men of
sense and learning, yet after that chemistry began to
be fashionable and much in vogue, there were some
of its professors, who although men of an uncommon
turn of genius, were as great enthusiasts, both in the
chemical and medical arts, as any other men
ever were in religion. They not only pretended to
transmute some of the baser metals into gold, con-
trary to the nature of things---and if they could
have succeeded in that impossible work, it would
have rendered gold as plentiful, cheap, and less
valuable than iron, because it is less fit for
instruments and mechanical uses - but they
also pretended iDfallibly to cure all diseases,
by some of their new invented chemical ma-
chines ;-a thing equally as impossible as the other,
and shewed their ignorance of the causes and na-
Digi '"d by Google
330 TBAUMATUBGIA, OR
ture of diaeuea. As those who are the most
ignorant are generally the greatest boasters, we
find that none of them were more so, than that
vain, boasting, paradoxical enthusiast Paracelsus,
who had acquired great riches by curing a cer-
tain disease with a mercurial ointment, the know-
ledge of which secret he is said to have stolen
from Jacobus Berengarius, of Caipo, in his travels
thither. He was withal so illiterate, that he said
philosophy could be taught in no laognage but high
Dutch ; but the true reason was, that he neither
understood philosophy nor aoy other language. He
also boasted that he was io possession of a nostrum
which would prolong mao's life to the age of Me-
thusaleh, though he died himself at the age of forty-
seven. He lived ia the fifteenth century. The cures
he wrought were deemed 110 surprising in that age,
that he was supposed to have recourse to super-
natural aid. In a picture of him at Lumley Castle,
he is represented in a close black gown, with both
bauds on a great sword, on whose hilt is ioscribed
the word Azot. This was the name of his familiar
spirit, that he kept imprisoned in the pummel, to
consult on emergent occasions. The circu1D8taoce
is thus alluded to by Butler :-
Bombaatea kept the Deril's Bird
Shut in the pummel of his sword ;
And taught him all the cunning pranks,
Of past and future 'mountebanks.
Paracelsus was succeeded by his scholar vao Bel-
mont, who had much more learning, but was as
Digi '"d by Google
Q) • 2¥:1
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB JURVBLLOUB, 331
great an enthusiast,·both in the chemical and medical
arts as his master, and embraced most of his para-
doxical opinions ; and1 having more technical terms,
he frequently used them rather to dazzle and con-
found the understandings of his readers, than to
inform their judgments. By thus givj.ng his writings
a mystical air of wisdom, he rendered them obscure,
and sometimes unintelligible; consequently, more
easily imposed them upon the p&lic and vulgar,
as sublime and useful truths. He also vainly boasted
that he could cure any fever in four days' time,
by sweating the patient with one draught of his
famous nostrum, the Prtecipitatus Diaplwreticus Pa-
racelsi ; and further adds, •• that no man can de-
serve the name of a physician, who cannot cure any
fever in four days' time." He, however, admits,
that he sometimes added a little theriaca (treacle)
and wine to it ; which last, he says, " is not only
a great cordial, but as a vehicle, is a proper mes-
lenger to be sent on such an .errand, as it knows
the road, is well received wherever it goes, and
readily admitted into the most private apartments
of the human body." Hence we believe that wine
is not only a good natured, but an intelligent being ;
though it sometimes deprives men of their senses
for a time, when they take too much of it : and
hence we see also a specimen of our author's method
ofreasoning and writing.
Van Helmont, like his great master, also boasted,
that he could cure all inflammatory and other fevers,
and even a pleurisy, without either bleeding, vomit-
ing, purging, clysters1 or blisters ; and he quarrelled
332 THAU1UTURGIA, OR
so much with the two last, that he calls clysters " a
beastJy remedy," and says that blisters were invented
by a wicked spirit, whom he calls Moloz, though
Beelzebub might have been as good a name, since
Dr. Baynard wittily observed, that he believed he
was only a great cantharid. And both Helmont and
the Doctor were so far right, that blistering was then,
as well as now, much abu..~d; and in truth they are
much oftener ~plied than is either necessary or
useful. •
Thus these two eminent chemists, and too many of
their followers, frequently imposed their writings
upon the unguarded reader, and themselves upon the
vulgar, for men of profound knowledge in the medi-
cal art, and as great adepts in chemistry : and being
puffed up with the high opinion entertained of their
new art, or new medicines, and their own great
wisdom, they rejected the philosophical theory of
medicine by Galen and Avicenna, then so much in
vogue. They were right in doing this, and might
have done great service to mankind, if they had
not set up their own imaginary chemical theory in
its place, which was neither founded upon observa-
tions, nature, nor reason, and had no existence but
in their own vain imaginations. Thus they supposed
a malignity which caused all diseases, as weU in-
flammatory as other fevers, and which was to be
forced out of the body by sweating, with their hot
therapeutics ; they, therefore, attacked all fevers
with this chemical ammunition, and attempted to
carry them with fire and storm, prescribing the
pnecipitatus diaphoreticus and sweatil'g regimen,
I
Digii?edb,Googl~
• • I,
._.:....__
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB HARVBLLOUS. 333
which must have been fatal to many, and no doubt
would have been so to many more, if van Helmont
had not allowed his patients to dilute the medicine
with a thin diet, which rendered the calorific method
less fatal. But, as the learned Dr. Friend judiciously
remarks, if any did escape after that hot regimen, it
was through a fiery trial.
Thus the chemists, without any rational theory, or
regard to nature, and what she indicated or did ;-
without duly consideringhow the morbid matter, which
calll!ed the disease, was to ba concocted and fitted
to be carried off by some critical evacuation ; or
how to assist nature to bring that crisis on, accord-
ing to the Hippocratic method ;-without considering
the benefit of the rational, cooling, antiphlogistic
practice of the Arabians-they i~troduced their
sudorific regimen instead ; and this regimen was soon
after brought into use in England, and most other coun-
tries, where it continued to be the practice for many.
years afterwards, as may be seen by the authors of
those times, until the judicious and honest Dr. Sy-
denham wisely rejected and exploded it, introducing
the rational method of Hippocrates and the cooling
regimen of the Arabians, which he seems-rather to
have taken ez ipsa re et ratione from nature and rea-
son, than from the works of the Arabian physicians,
with which he appears not to have been acquainted,
as he never mentions them:
Van Helmont had several other famous nostrum!!,
with which he pretended to perform wonders, as
quacks have done in all ages, and as some do now :
Digi '"d by Google
334 TB.t.UII.t.TUBGIA, Oa
for empirici.em waa never more in fashion than at the
present day, and the chemical art has supplied them
with many more arcana and nostrums than the an-
cients had in all their antidotes and theriacaa,
etc. since chemistry was made snbservient to
medicine. Van Belmont, nevertheless was a learned
man, and acquired a great name and reputation, at
least for some time ; but, as neither his theory nor
his practice were founded on nature and reason, nor
conformable to tGem, the more judicious physicians
soon saw their errors, as well as the fallacy of his
new invented chemical terms and unmeaning phraaes,
which only containedthe shadow and not the substance
of the medical science ; therefore both his chemical
theory and hot regimen, together with his writings,
sunk soon after his death, ihto a state of merited
oblivion.
Notwithstanding that the science of chemistry
was greatly improved by these extraordinary men,
who invented or discovered many useful remedies,
which they introduced into the practice of medicine
in a no less extraordinary manner, and there-
by pointed out the way for others to follow them ;
yet we tmst allow that the more able and learned
chemists have greatly enriched and improved the
materia medica since, by making many curious
experiments, and thereby discovering several new
and very efficacious medicines, not only from the
semi-metals, mercury and antimony, and the various
chemical preparations from them, but from the more
perfect metals, and some other mineral bodies, as
BLUCJDATIONS OJ' TBK KABVBLLO'Jil. 335
well as from a great variety of remedies which are pre-
pared both from vegetable and animal substances, as
salts, oils, essences, spirits, tinctures, elixirs, extracts
and many more needleBB here to be mentioned, but
all of which are known to physicians. For all
these we are indebted to the chemists who
first invented and introduced them into practice ;
although the use and application, as well as the
methods of administering them to the sick, to cure
various other diseases than those they were first used
for, has been greatly improved by several learned
and ingenious phyaicians.
336 THAUHATURGIA, OR.
CHAPTER XXI.
MODERN EMPIRICISM•
•
Is one respect we have but very little occasion to
extol our own enlightened age at the e:r.pence of those
ages which are so frequently and justly termed dark.
We allude to the bold and artful designs of impos-
ture, and particulary medical imposture. Daily are
seen illiterate and audacious empirics sporting with
the lives of a credulous public, that seem obstinately
resolved to shut their ears against all the suggestions
of reason and experience. The host of empirics,
mountebanks, and self-dubbed hygeists, which in-
fest the metropolis, and the tinctv.res, cordials, pills,
balms, and essences, so much extolled by their re-
tailers, and swallowed by the public, are indeed so
many proofs of the credulity of the age, that to say
the.least, the march of intellect has evidently made a
jauz-pas in this direction.
The celestial beds, the enchanting magnetic powers
introduced into this country by Messmer, a German
quack, and his numerous disciples, the prevailing in-
difference to all dietetic precepts, the singular im·
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVELLOUS. 337
position practised on many females, in persuading
them to wear the inert acromatic belts, the strange
infatuation of the opulent in paying five guineas for
a pair of metallic tractors, not worth sixpence, the
tables for qlood-letting, and other absurdities still
inse~ed in popular almanacs, (against all the rules of
common sense)-all these yield in nothing to the ab-
surdities and superstitious notions conveyed through
the medium of astrology, dreams, and other ludicrous
though by far more imposing and interesting chan-
nels. The temple of the gulls is now thronged with
votarie~> as much as that of superstition formerly was ;
human reason is still a slave to the most tyran-
nical prejudices ; and certainly, there is no ready
way to excite general attention and admiration,
than to deal in the mysterious and the marvellous.
The visionary system of Jacob Bohman has latterly
been revived in some parts of Germany. The gho~>ts
and apparitions which had disappeared from the times
of Thomasius and Swedenborg, have again left
their graves, to the great terror of fanaticism. New
prophets announce their divine mission, and, what is
worse, find implicit believers ! The inventors of secret
medicines are rewarded by patents, and obtain no
small celebrity ; while some of the more conscien-
tious, but less fortunate adepts, endeavour to amuse
the public with popular systems of medicine.
One of the most dazzling and successful inventors
in modern times, WWJ Messmer, wh~ commenced his
career of medical knight-errantry at Vienna. His
house was the focus of high life, the rendezvous of
the gay, where the young and opulent were enlivened
z
Digi '"d by Google
338 THAUMATURGIA, OR
and entertained with continual concerts, routs, and
illuminations. At a great expence, he imported into
Germany the first Harmonica from this country: he
established cabinets of natural curiosities, and la-
boured constantly and secretly in his chemical
laboratory ; so that he acquired the reputation of
being a great alchemist, a philosopher studiously
employed .in the most useful and important re-
searches. In 1766, he first publicly announced the
object and nature of his secret labours :-all his
discoveries centered in the magnet, which, according
to his hypothesis, was the best and safest remedy
hitherto proposed against all diseases incident to the
human body.
This declaration of Messmer excited very general
attention ; the more so as about the same time he
established a hospital in his own house, into which
he admitted a number of patients gratis. Such dis-
interestedness procured, as might be expected, no
small addition to his fame. He was, besides, fortu-
nate in gaining over many celebrated physicians to
his opinions, who lavished the greatest encomiums
on his new art, and were instrumental in commu-
nicating to the public a number of successful ex-
periments. This seems to have surpassed the ex-
pectations of Messmer, and induced him to extend
his original plan further than it is likely he first in-
tended. We find him soon after assuming a more
dogmatical and mysterious air, when, for the pur-
pose of shining exclusively, he appeared in the cha-
racter of a magician :-his pride and egotism would
brook neither equal nor competitor.
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OJ' TBB JfARVBLLOUB. 339
The common loadstone, or mineral magnet, which
is so well known, did not appear to him sufficiently
important and mysterious-he contrived an unusual
one, to the effect of which he ·gave the name of
' animal magnetism'. After this, he proceeded to a
still bolder assumption, everywhere giving it out,
that the inconceivable powers of this subtile fluid were
centered in his own person. Now, the mona-drama
began ; and Messmer, at once the hero and chorus of
the piece, performed his part in a masterly manner.
He placed the most nervous, hysteric, and hypocon-
driac patients opposite to him ; and by the sole act of
stretching forth his finger, he made them feel the most
violent shocks. The effects of this wonderful power
excited universal astonishment ; its activity and pene-
tration being confirmed by unquestionable testimonies,
from which itappeared,that blows similartothosegiven
by a blunt iron, could be imparted by the operator.
while he himself was separated by two doors, nay,
even by thick walls. The very looks of this prince of
jugglers had the power to excite painful cramps and
twitches in his credulous and predisposed patients.
This wonderful tide of success instigated his inde-
fatigable genius to bolder attempts, especially as he
bad no severe criticism to apprehend from the su-
perstitious multitude. He roundly asserted things of
which he offered not the least shadow of proof ; and
for the truth of which he had no other pledge to offer
but his own high reputation. At one time he could
communicate his magnetic power to paper, wool, silk,
bread, leather, stones, water, etc., at another he
asserted that certain individuals possel!sed a greater
z 2
Digi '"d by Google
340 THAUMATURGJA, OR
degree of susceptibility for this power than others.
It must be owned, however, that many of his contem-
poraries made it their business to encounter his extra-
vagant pretensions, and refute his dogmatical asser-
tions with the most convincing arguments. Yet, be
long enjoyed the triumph of being supported by blind
followers, and their increasing number completely
overpowered the suffrages of reason.
Messmer, at length perceived that in his native coun-
try, he should never be able to reach the point which
pe had fixed upon, as the termination of his magneti-
cal career. The Germans began to discredit his
pompous claims ; but it was only after repeated
failures in some promised cures, that he found him-
selfunder the necessity of seeking protection in Paris•
.There he met with a most flattering reception, being
caressed, and in a manner adored by a nation which
has always been extravagantly fond of every new thing,
whimsical and mysterious. Messmer well knew how
to turn this natural propensity to the best advantage.
He addressed himself particularly to the weak ; to
such as wished to be considered men of profound know-
ledge, but who, when they were compelled to be silent
from real ignorance, took refuge behind the impene-
trable shield of mystery. The fashionable levity, th~
irresistible curiosity, and the peculiar tum of the Pa-
risians, ever solicitous to have something interesting
for conversation, to keep their active imagination in
play, were exactly suited to the genius and talents of
the inventor of animal magnetism. We need not
wonder, therefore, if he availed himself of their moral
and physical character, to ensure a ready faith in his
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS OP THE MARVBLLOUS. 341
doctrines, and success to his pretended experiments :
in fact, he found friends and admirers wherever he
made his appearance. His first advertisement was
couched in the following high-sounding terms :
" Behold a discovery which promises unspeakable
advantages to the human race, and immortal fame to
its author ! Behold the dawn of an universal revolu-
tion ! A new race of men shall arise, shall overspread
the earth, to embellish it by their virtues, and render
it fertile by their industry. Neither vice nor igno-
rance, shall stop their active career ; they will know
pur calamities only from the records of history. The
prolonged duration of their life will enable them to
plan and accomplish the most laudable undertakings.
The tranquil, the innocent gratifications of that
primeval age will be restored, wherein man laboured
without toil, lived without sorrow, and expired with-
out a groan ! Mothers will no longer be subject to
pain and danger during their pregnancy and child-
birth : their progeny will be more robust and brave ;
the now rugged and difficult path of education will be
rendered smooth and easy ; and hereditary complaints
and diseases will be for ever banished from the future
auspicious race. Fathers rejoicing to see their poste-
rity of the fourth and fifth generations, will only drop
like fruit fully ripe, at the extreme point of age !
Animals and plants, no less susceptible of the magne-
tic power than man, will be exempt from the reproach
of barrenness and the ravages of distemper. The
flocks in the fields, and the plants in the gardens, will
be more vigorous and nourishing, and the trees will
bear more beautiful and grateful fruits. The human
Digi '"d by Google
34:1 THAUMATURGIA, OR
nice, once endowed with this elementary power, will
probably rise to still more sublime and astonishing
effects of nature : who indeed is able to pronounce,
with certainty, how far this salutary influence may
extend?"
What splendid promises ! What rich prospects !
Messmer, the greatest of philosophers, the most vir-
tuous of men, the physician of mankind, charitably
opens his arms to all his fellow-mortal.e, who stand in
need of comfort and assistance, No wonder that the
cause of magnetism, under such a zealous apostle,
rapidly gained ground, and obtained every day large
additions to the number of its converts. To the gay,
the nervous, and the dissipated of all ranks and ages.
it held out the most flattering promises. Men of the
first respectability interested themselves in behalf of
this new philosophy ; they anticipated in idea, the
more happy and more vigorous race which would pro-
ceed, as it were, by enchantment, from the wonderful
impulsive powers of animal magnetism. The French
were so far sedoced by these flattering appearances,
as to offer the German adventurer thirty thousand
livres for the communication of his secret art. He
appears, however, to have understood his own interest
better than thus to dispose of his hypothetical pro-
perty, which, upon a more accurate investigation
might be objected to, as consisting of unfair articles
of purchase. He consequently returned the following
answer to the credulous French minil!ters :
" That Dr. M. considered his art of too great im-
portance, and the abuses it might lead to, too danger-
ous for him at present to make it public ; that he
Digi '"d by Google
t
KLUCIDATJONS OF THE 'MARVELLOUS. 343
must therefore reserve to himself the time of its publi-
cation, and mode of introducing it to general use and
observation-that he would first take proper measures
to initiate or prepare the minds of men, by exciting
in them a susceptibility of this great power; and that
he would then undertake to communicate his secret
gradually, which he. meant to do without hope of
reward."
Messmer, too politic to part with his secret for so
small a premium, had a better prospect in view ; and
his apparent disinterestedness and hesitation served
only to sound an over-curious public, to allure more
victims to his delusive practices, and to retain them
more firmly in their implicit belief. Soon after this
he was easily prevailed upon to institute a private
society, into which none were admitted, but such as
bound themselves by a vow to perpetual secrecy.
These pupils he agreed to instruct in his important
mysteries, on condition of each paying him one hun-
dred louis. In the course of six months, having had
not less than three hundred such pupils. he realized a
fortune of thirty thousand louis.
It appears, howl'ver, that the disciples of Messmer
did not adhere to their engagement : we find them
separating gradually from their professor, and
establishing schools for the propagation of his system,
with a view, no doubt, to reimburse themselves for
the expenses of their own initiation into the magnetis-
ing art. But few of them having understood the
terms and mysterious doctrines of their foreign
master, every new adept exerted himself to excel his
fellow-labourers, in additional explanations and in·
344 TBAUMATURGIA, 011.
ventions : others, who did not possess, or could 1\Pt
llpare the sum of one hundred louis, were indus-
triously employed in attempts to discover the secret,
by their own ingenuity ; and thus arose a great variety
of magnetical sects. At length, however, Messmer's
authority became suspected ; his pecuniary acquisitions
were now notorious, and our humane and disinterested
philosopher was assailed with critical and satirical
animadversions from every quarter. The fertility of
his process for medical purposes, as well as the bad •
consequences it might procure in a moral point of
view, soon became topics of common conversation,
and ultimately even excited the apprehensions of
government. One dangerous effect of magnetical
associations was, that young voluptuaries began to
employ this art, to promote their libidinous and des-
tructive designs.
Matters having assumed this serious aspect, the
French government, much to its credit, deputed four
respectable and unprejudiced men, to whom were
afterwards added four others of great learning and
abilities, to inquire into, and appreciate the merits of
the new discovery of animal magnetism. These
philosophers, among whom we find the illustrious
names of Franklin and Lavoisier, recognised, indeed,
very surprising and unexpected phenomena in the
physical state of magnetized individuals ; but they
gave it as their opinion, that the powers of imagina-
tion, and not animal magnetism, had produced these
effects. Sensible of the superior influence, which the
imagination can exert on the human body, when it is
effectually wrought upon, they perceived, after a
Digi '"d by Google
··--'
r
l .
'· ELUCIDATJOSS OJI' THE MARVELLOUII. 345
number of experiments and facts frequently repeated,
that contact, or touch, imagination, imitation, and
ezcited sensibility, were the real and role causes of
these phenomena, which had so much confounded
the illiterate, the credulous, and the enthusiastic ;
that this boasted magnetic element had no real ex-
istence in nature, consequently that Messmer himself
was either an arrant impostor, or a deluded fa-
natic.
Meantime, this magnetic mystery had made no
small progress in Germany. A number of periodi-
cal and other publications vindicated its claims to
public favour and attention ; and some literary
men, who had rendered themselves justly celebrated
by their former writings, now stepped forward as
bold and eager champions in support of this mystical
doctrine. The ingenious Lavater undertook long
journies for the propagation of magnetism and som-
nambulism:* and what manipulations and other ab-
surdities were not practised on hysterical young la-
dies in the city of Bremen ? It is farther worthy
of notice, that an eminent physician of that place, in
a recent publication, does not scruple to rank mag-
netism among medical remedies ! It must, never-
theless, be confessed, that the great body of the
• The art of exciting sleep in persons under the influence
of animal magnetism, with a view to obtain or rather extort
during this artificial aleep, their verbal declarations and di-
rections for curing the diseases of both body and mind.
Such, indeed, was the rage for propagating this mystical
nonsense, that even the pulpit was occasionally resorted to,
in order to make, not fair penitents, but fair proselytes.
Digi '"d by Google
trW
346 THAt'MATURGlA, OR
learned, throughout Germany, have endeavoured, by
strong and impartial criticism, to oppose and refute
animal magnetism, considered as a medica! system.
And how should it be otherwise, since it is highly
ridiculous to imagine that violent agitations, spasms,
convulsions, etc. which are obviously symptoms of a
diseased state of body, and which must increase ra-
ther than diminish the disposition to nervous diseases,
can be the means of improving the constitution
and ultimately of prolonging human life ? Every at-
tentive person must have observed, that too frequent
intercourse between nervous and hypochondriac pa-
tients is infectious ; and if this be the case, public
assemblies, for exhibiting magnetised individuals,
can neither be safe nor proper. It is no small proof
of the good sense of the people of this country,
though they have at different times fallen into nearly
similar delusions, that the professors of animal mag-
netism did not long maintain their ground ; they
were soon exposed to public ridicule on the stage,
nod shortly became annihilated in their own·absurdi-
ties.
Other plans for the prolongation of life, little less
absurd than animal magnetism, which have, like
every other imposture, " fretted their hour," deserve
to be noticed. The French and Germans have long
stood pre-eminent in the empirical world, though
the merit of ingenious and more plausible emana-
tions of genius may fairly be attributed to the latter.
Animal magnetism ; physiognomy, a rational though
fallacious science ; phrenology, a doctrine abounding
with many singular mnnifestions, and posses~:ing
Digi '"d by Google
BLUCIDATIONS OF THB MARVELLOUS. 347
claims not to be put down by mere force ofprejudice,
are all of German origin.
The Count St. Germain, a Frenchman, realized
large sums, by vending an artificial tea, chiefly com-
posed of yellow saunders, senna leaves, and fennel
seed, which was puffed off under the specious appel-
lation of Teafor prolonging life; which, at that time,
was swallowed with such voracity all over the con-
tinent, that few could subsist without it. Its cele-
brity was of short duration, and none ever lived long
enough to realize its effects.
The Chevalier d'Ailhoud, another brnzen-faced
adventurer, presented the world with a powder,
which met with so large and rapid a sale, that he
soon accumulated money enough to purchase a whole
county. This famous powder, however, instead of
adding to the means of securing a long and healthy
life, is well known to produce constant indisposition,
and at length to cause a most miserable death ; being
composed of certain drugs of a poisonous nature,
though slow in their operation.
Count Cagliostro, styled the luminary of modern
impostors and debauchees, prepared a very common
stomach elixir, which was sold at a most exorbitant
price under the name of " balm of life." It was
pretended, with the most unparalleled effrontery,
that, by the use of this medicine, the count had
lived above 200 years, and that he was rendered
invulnerable against every species of poison. These
bold assertions could not fail to excite very general
attention. During his residence at Strasburg, while
descanting, in a large and respectable company, on the
348 THACMATURGIA, OR
,·irtues of his antidote, his pride met with a very
mortifying check. A physician who was present,
and who had taken part in the con'fersation, quitting
the room privately, went to an apothecary's shop,
and ordering two pills of equal size to be made,
agreeably to his directions, suddenly appeared again
before the count, and thus addressed him :-
" Here, my worthy count, are two pills ; the one
contains a mortal poison, the other is perfectly in-
nocent ; choose one of these and swallow it, and I
engage to take that which you leave. This will be con-
sidered as a decisive proof of your medical skill, and
t>nable the public to ascertain the efficacy of your ex-
tolled elixir." The count took the alarm, made a
number of apologies, but could not be prevailed upon
to touch the pills. The physician swallowed both
immediately, and proved by his apothecary, that they
might be taken with perfect safety, being only made
of common bread. Notwithstanding the shame of
this detection, Cagliostro still retained numerous advo-
cates by circulating unfounded reports, and concealing
his real character by a variety of tricks.
The inspired father Gassner, of Bavaria, ascribed
all diseases,lameness, palsy, etc, to diabolical agency,
contending from the history of Job, Saul, and others
recorded in sacred writ, that Satan, as the grand
enemy of mankind, has a power to embitter and
shorten our lives by diseases. Vast numbers of
credulous and weak-minded people flocked to ~
fanatic, with a view of obtaining relief which be,
never had the means to administer. Multitudes of
patients, afflicted with nervous and hypochondriacal
Digi '"d by Google
,._..
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 349
complaints, besieged him daily ; being all stimulated
by a wild imagination, eager to view and acknow-
ledge the works of Satan ! Men eminent for their
literary attainments, even the natural philosophers
of Bavaria, were hurried away by the stream, and
completely blinded by sanctified imposture.
It is no less astonishing than true, that so late as
1794, a Count Thun, at Leipzig, pretended to per-
form miraculous cures on gouty, hypochondriacal,
and hysterical patients, merely by the impol'ition of
his sacred hands. He could not however raise a
great number of disciples in a place that abounds with
so many sceptics and unbelievers.
The commencement of the nineteenth century has
been equally pregnant with imposture. The delu-
sions of Joanna Southcoat are too fresh in the re-
collections of our readers to require notice here ;
yet, strange to say, this fanatical old woman had
her adherents and disciples ; many of them, in other
respects, were keen and sensible men ; nor has the
delusion altogether evaporated, though the sect is
by no means powerful or strong ; the first im-
pressions are still retained by her half frantic
and ridiculous devotees, who are only to be met
with among the very lowest and illiterate orders of
society.
The farce of the convert of Newhall, near Chelms-
ford, is of still more recent date. lfere we have a
miracle performed by the holy .Prince Hohenlohe,
at a distance of at least three hundred miles from
the presence of his patient. Hearing of the wonder-
ful cures performed by this prince, one of the nuns
Digi '"d by Google
s
350 THAUMATURGIA, OR
in the above convent, who had been afilicted for a
considerable length of time with a swelling and in-
flammation extending from the ball of the thumb
along the fore arm, and up as high as the arm-
pit, wrote to Prince Hohenlohe-having previously
been attended by the most eminent practitioners in
London without any apparent benefit-to relieve her
from her sufferings. This he willingly undertook
to do, but accompanied his consent with an injunction
that she should offer up her prayers on a certain day
(May 3, 1824,) held in reverence by the catholics,
and at a certain hour, promising that he would be at
his devotions at the same time. All this, the afH.icted
nun attended to ; immediately after her prayers,
she experienced a tingling sensation along the arm,
and from that instant the cure rapidly advanced until
the diseased limb became as sound as the other.
The days of priestcraft and superstition, it was
hoped, had been fast fleeting away before the lu-
minous rays of science, even in those countries where
religious juggling had been roost fostered and prac-
tised. But for any man in this country to believe
that such a miracle can be wrought by human
agency, is of itself an awfully convincing proof that
he is ignorant of the Scriptures, and that his own
mind is likely to become a prey to the wildest
chimeras. Prince Hohenlohe's notoriety however
as a worker of miracles was not confined to Newhall.
His mighty prowess extended to the emerald isle ;
and several cures were performed at as great, or
even at a greater distance, than that wrought at
Newhall, and merely at the sound of his orisons.
Digi '"d by Google
l?.
I .
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 351
We hear of no miracles being wrought by, or upon
protestants ; consequently we ]eave them to the
gloom of the cloister, whence they emanated, and
where only they can be of use in a cause which re-
quires the aid of stratagem to support it.
A taste for the marvellous seems to be natural to
man in every stage of society, and at almost every
period of life ; it cannot, therefore, be much a matter
of astonishment, that, from the earliest ages of the
world, persons have been found, who, more idle and
more ingenious than others, have availed themselves
of this propensity, to obtain an easy livelihood by
levying contributions on the curiosity of the public.
Whether this taste is to be considered as a proof of
the weakness of our judgment, or of innate inqui-
sitiveness, which stimulates us to enlarge the sphere
of our knowledge, must be left to the decision of
metaphysicians ; it is sufficient for our present pur-
pose to know that it gave rise to a numerous class
of impostors in the shape of quacks, mountebanks,
poison-swallowers, fire-eaters, and pill-mongers.
There is another class of adepts, such as sleight of
hand performers, slack rope dancers, teachers of ani-
mals to perform extraordinary tricks ; in short, those
persons who delude the senses, and practise harmless
deceptions on spectators, included under the common
appellation of jugglers. If these arts served no other
purpoBe than that of mere amusement, they yet merit
a certain degree of encouragement, as affording at once
a cheap and innocent diversion ; jugglers of this
class frequently exhibit instructive experiments in na-
Digi '"d by Google
352 THAUMATURGIA, OR
tural philosophy, chemistry, and mechanics: thus the
solar microscope was invented from an instrument
to reflect shadows, with which a savoyard amused a
German populace ; and the celebrated Sir Richard
Arkwright is said to have conceived the idea of the
spinning machines, which have so largely contributed
to the prosperity of the cotton manufactories in this
country, from a toy which he purchased for his child
from an itinerant showman. These deceptions have,
besides, acted as an agreeable and most powerful an-
tidote to superstition. and to that popular belief in
miracles, conjuration, sorcery, and witchcraft, which
preyed upon the minds of our ancestors ; and the
effects of shadows, electricity, mirrors, and the mag-
net, once formidable instruments in the hands of in-
terested persons, for keeping the vulgar in awe, have
been stripped of their terrors, and are no longer
frightful in their most terrific forms.
ON TH.B: TRANSFUSION OF BLOOD FROM ONE ANIMAL
TO ANOTHER.
At ·:a time. when the shortness of human iife was
imputed to a distempered state of the blood ; when
all diseases were ascribed to this cause, without at-
tending to the whole of what relates to the moral
and physical nature of man, a conclusion was easily
formed, that a radical removal of the corrupted
blood, and a c~plete renovation of the entire mass
by substitution las both practicable and effectual.
~
I KLUCIDATIONS OJ' THB MARVELLOUS. 353
~· The speculative mind of man was not at a loss to
t .devise expedients, to effect this desirable purpose ;
r and undoubtedly one of the boldest, most extra~trdi­
. nary, and most ingenious attempts ever made to
lengthen the period of human life was made at this
time. We allude here to the famous scheme of trans-
fiuion, or of introducing the blood of one animal
into that of another. This curious discovery is at-
tributed to Andreas Libavius, professor of medicine
and chemistry in the unh·ersity of Halle, who, in the
year 16 15, publicly recommended experimental
essays to ascertain the fact.
Libavius was an honest and spirited opposer of
the Theosophic system, founded by the bombastic
Paracelsus, and supported by a numerous tribe of
credulous and frantic followers. Although he was
not totally exempt from the follies of that age, since
he believed in the transmutation of metals, and
suggested to his pupils the wonderful power of po-
table gold, yet he distinguished rational alchemy
from the fanatical systems then in repute, and zeal-
ously defended the former against the disciples of
Galen, as well as those of Paracelsus. He made a
number of important discoveries in chemistry, and
was unquestionably the first professor in Germany
who gave chemical lectures, upon pure principles
of affinity, unconnected with the extravagant notions
of the theosophists.
The first experiments relative to the transfusion
of the blood, appear to have been made, and that
with great propriety, on the lower animals. The
bloo& of the young, healthy and vigorous, was trans-
2 A
•
•
Q£ .c. .91
354 TBAUMATURGlA, OR
ferred into the old and infirm, by means of a delicate
tube, placed in a vein opened for that purpose.
The effect of this operation was surprising and im-
portant : aged and decrepit animals were soon ob-
served to become more lively, and to move with
greater ease and rapidity. By the indefatigable ex-
ertions of Lower, in England, of Dennis in France,
and of Moulz, Hoffman, and others in Germany,
this artificiul mode of renovating the life and spirits
was successfully continued, and even brought to some
degree of perfection.
The vein usually opened in the arm of a patient
was resorted to for the purpose of transfusion ; into
this a small tube was placed in a perpendicular
direction ; the same vein was then opened in a healthy
individual, but more frequently in an animal, into
which another tube was forced in a reclining direc-
tion : both small tubes were then slid into one
another, and in that position the delicate art of
transfusion was safely performed. When the opera-
tion was completed, the vein ·was tied up in tlle same
manner as on blood-letting, Sometimes a quantity
of blood was drawn from the patient, previously to
the experiment taking place. As few persons, how-
ever, were to be found, that would agree to part
with their blood to others, recourse was generally had
to animals, and most frequently to the calf, the
lamb, and the stag. These being laid upon a table~
and tied so as to be unable to move, the operation
was performed in the manner before described. In
some instances, the good effects of these experiments
were evident acd promising, while they excited tho
Digi '"d by Google
.~
' •
•
BLUCIDATIONS OJ' THE )(J..JtVELLOUS, 355
greatest hopes of the future improvement and pro-
gress of this new art. But the unceasing abuses
practised by bold and inexpert adventurers, together
with the great number of cases, which proved
11D811ccessful, induced the different governments of
Europe to put an entire stop to the practice, by
the strictest prohibitions. And, indeed, while the
constitutions and mode of living among men differ
so materially as they now do, this is, and ever
must remain, an extremely hazardous and equivocal,
if not a desperate remedy. The blood of every
individual is of a peculiar nature, and congenial
with that of the body only to which it belongs,
and in which it is generated. Hence our hope of
prolonging human life, by artificial evacuations and
injections, must necessarily be disappointed. It
must not, however, be supposed, that these, and
similar pursuits during the ages of which we treat, as
well as those which succeeded, were solely or chiefly
followed by mere adventurers and fanatics. The
greatest geniuses of those times employed their wits
with the most learned and eminent men, who deemed
it an object by no means below their consideration.
The method of supplying good for unsound teeth,
though long laid aside, in consequence of the danger
with which the practice was attended, by the com-
munication of disease from an unhealthy to a healthy
person, was at one time as much the rage as the
transfusion of blood. This practice, notwithstanding
the objections which stand opposed to it, might,
nevertheless, be adopted with success on many occa-
sions, could persons enjoying a sound and wholesome
2 A 2
Digi '"d by Google
•
356 TBAt7MATt7BGJA, O'R
state of body be found to answer the demand, bow-
ever unnatural it may appear. A few untoward caees
soon raieed the hue and cry against the continuance
of the practice, as in the transfusion of blood, though
the latter bas recently been attempted in the case
of an individual exhausted by exceaaive hermorrage
with a succeaa which answered the expectation.
There is little doubt that both the transfusion of
blood, and engrafting or transplanting of teeth, are
capable, with judgment and discrimination, of being
made aubae"ient in a variety of cases ; though the
chances of general success militate against these expe-
riments ; for it is the unalterable plan of nature to
proceed gradually in her operations ; all outrage
and extravagance being at variance with her es-
tablished laws.
-·-
---
•
..
ELUCIDATIONS 011' THE MARVELLOUS. 357
CHAPTER XXII.
THE ROSICRUCIANS OR THEOSOPHISTS.
THIS remarkable sect was founded upon the doc-
trines of Paracelsus, during the latter part of the .
sixteenth, and the beginning of the seventeenth cen-
turies. The society was known by the name of the
Rosencrucians or Rosecrucians ; and as it has not
been without its followers and propagators in different
shapes, even to the present time, we shall here
present the reader ' with a concise account of the
origin and tenets of that fanatical sect.
The first intimation of the existence of this order
we find announced to the world in a book published
in the German language, in the year 1614, with
the following title, " The universal and general Re-
formation of the world, together with an acc011nt of
the famous fraternity of the Rosencrucians." The
work contains an intimation, that the members of
the society had been secretly engaged for a cen-
tury preceding, and that they had come to the
knowledge of many great and important secrets,
which, if communicated to the world, would promote
the happiness of man.
Digi '"d by Google
•
358 THAUMATUROJA, OR
An adventurer of the name of Christii.Ul Ro~~eu­
kreuz is said to have founded this order, in the
fourteenth century after having been previously ini-
tiated in the sublime wisdom of the east, daring
his travels in Egypt and Fez. From what we are
enabled to learn from this work, the intention of
the founder, and the final aim of the society, appear
to have been the accumnlation of wealth and trea-
sures, by means of secrets known only to the mem-
bers ; and by a proper distribution of these treasures
among princes and potentates, to promote the grand
scheme of the society, by producing '' a general
revolution of all things." In their " confession
of faith," there are many bold and singular dogmas ;
among others, that the end of the world is at hand ;
that a general reformation of men and manners
will speedily take place' ; that the wicked shall be
expelled or subdued, the Jews converted, and the
doctrine of Christ propagated over the whole earth.
The Rosencrucians not only believed that these events
must happen, but they also endeavoured to acce1erate
them by unremitted exertions. To their faithful
votaries and followers, they promised abundance of
celestial wisdom, unspeakable riches, exemption from
disease, an immortal state of man of ever blooming
youth, and above all the philosopher's stone.
Learning and improvement of the mu1d were,
by this order, considered as euperfiuous and despised.
They found all knowledge in the Bible ; this, how-
ever, has been supposed rather a pretext to
obviate a charge, which was brought against them,
of not believing in the christian religion. The truth
Digi '"d by Google
ELUCIDATIONS OF TRE MARVELLOUS, 359
is, they imagined thetn!elves superior to divine re-
velation, and supposed every useful acquisition, every
virtue to be derived from the influence of the Deity
on the soul of man. In this, as well ae in many
other respects, they appear to be followers of Para-
celsus, whom they profess to revere as a me!!Senger
of the divinity. Like him, they pretend to cure all
diaeases ; through faith and the power of the ima-
gination, to heal the most mortal disorders by a
touch, or even by simply looking at the patient.
The universal remedy was likewise a grand secret
of the order, the discovery of which was promised
to all its faithful members.
It would be unnecessary to enumerate any more
of such impious fancies, if the founder of this still
lurking sect, now partly revivified, had not asserted,
with astonishing effrontery, •that human life was
capable of prolongation, like a fire kept up by com-
bustible matter, and that he was in the possession
of a secret, which could verify this assertion. It
isevident, however, from the testimony of Libavius,
a man of unquestionable veracity, that this doughty
champion in medical chemistry, or rather alchemy,
Paracelsus, notwithstanding his bold assertions, died
as before observed, at Sulzburgh in Germany, in
the Hospital Of St. Stephen's in 1541 : and that
his death ·was chiefly occasioned by the singular
and desolate mode of life, which he had for a long
time pursued. When a competent knowledge of
the economy of the human frame is wanting, to
enable a man to discriminate between internal and ·
external causes and effects, it ~ill be impossible
Digi '"d by Google
360 TRAUMATURGIA, OR
to ascertain, or to counteract, the different causes
by which our health is deranged. This evidently was
the case with Paracelsus, and many other life-pro-
longel'll who have succeeded him ; and should a
fortunate individual ever fix upon a remedy, pos-
sessing the power of checking disease, or lengthening
out human existence (an expectation never to be
realized) he will be indebted to chance alone for
the discovery. This has been the case in all ages,
and still remains so.
Remedies, from time to time, have been devised,
not merely to serve as nostrums for all diseases, but
also for the pretended purpose of prolonging life.
Those of the latter kind have been applied with a
view to resist or check many operations of nature,
which insensibly consume the vital heat, and other
powers of life, such a. respiration, muscular irrita-
tion, etc. Thus, from the implicit credulity of some,
and the exuberant imagination of others, observation
and experiments, however incompatible with sound
reason· and philosophy, have been multiplied, w¥It
the avowed design of establishing proofs, or repu-
tations of this or that absurd opinion. In this
manner have fanaticism and imposture falsified.
the plainest truths, or forged the most unfounded
and ridiculous claims ; insomuch that One glaring in-
consistency has been employed to combat another, and
folly has succeeded folly, till a fund of materials has
been transmitted to posterity, sufficient to form a
concise history on this subject. Men in all ages
have set a just value on life ; and in proportion
to the means of enjoyment, this value has been
ELUCIDATIONS OF THE MARVELLOUS. 361
appreciated in a greater or less degree. If the gra-
tification of the sensual appetite fonned the principal
object of living, its prolongation would be to the
epicure, as desirable as the prospect of an exis-
tence to be enjoyed beyond the limits of the grave,
is to the moralist and the believer.
The desire of longevity appears to be inherent
in all animated nature, and particularly in the human
race ; it is intimately cherished by us, through the
whole duration of ourexistence, and is frequently sup-
ported and strengthened, not only by justifiable
meane, but also by various kinds of collusion.
Livixig in an age when every branch of human know-
ledge is reduced to popular systems ; when the vigile
of reason are hallowed at the shrine of experiment and
observation;-thoughwe behold intheimmense variety
of things, the utter uselessness of attempting to
renovate a shattered constitution, or of improving a
eonnd one to last beyond a certain period : we never-
theless observe that in the inconceivable waste of ele-
mentary particles there prevails the strictest economy.
Nothing is produced invain, nothing consumed without
a cause. We clearly perceive that all nature is united
eby indissoluble ties, that every individual thing ex-
ists for the sake of another, and that no one can
subsist without its concomitant. Hence we conclude,
that man himself is not an insulated being, but
a necessary link in the great chain, which con-
nects the universe. Nature is our safest guide,
and she will be so with greater certainty, as we
become better acquainted with her operations,
especially with respect to those particulars which
36~ THAUMATURGIA, ETC.
more nearly concern our physical existence. Thus,
a source of many and very extensive advantages
will be opened ; thus, we shall reach our ori-
ginal destination-namely, that of living long and
in the enjoyment of sound health, to which, if purity
of morals be added, the best hopes may be enter-
tained of a happy state, in a future world, where
its inhabitants never die.
TBB END.
LOXDON:
6CHULZB AND CO., 13, POLAND STREET.
Digi '"d by Google
•
