{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__gaines___new_light_from_the_old_book.pdf","mytitle":"New Light From The Old Book","mylang":"de"}
- New Light
---from the ---
Old Book
by
THOMAS ROBERT GAINES
Author of
"Health Is In You",
"Th.e Magic of Breath Power",
"Y. Y. C.",
"Arise and Shine", etc.
THE CONCORD PRESS
515 Washington Street
Lynn, Mass.
Copyright 1936
by
Thomas Robert Gaines
Los Angeles, California
Dedicated to a Noble So11J
Bella Graham
A truly good life of serving and giving.
Introduction
*
The "new age" is a reaching out by unsatisfied mil-
lions for a glimpse of a larger life. The majesty of the
soul and the future glory of humanity are not an idle
dream. Above the complexity of thought, the conflict of
human environment and the discords of human existence,
a light is dawning on the horizon of life which symbolizes
a new consciousness for the human family. The rustle
of a transcendant triumph for mankind is in the air. Pro-
phetic notes are ringing clear and true, heralding the ap-
proach of greater possibilities for the children of men.
Man need no longer seat himself on the footstool of
subjection. Man may through higher choice claim to
share the throne of high power, and rise above the mists
and uncertainty of an uncontrolled life. God is still rul-
ing the universe and man being part of God can never
sev'er his relationship with God. Up through the ages of
the changing past, man has evolved from a humble ):>egin-
ning but ever altering, ever changing, ever unfolding ac-
cording to the pre-determined design of God - for man,
after all is said and done, is a divine experiment.
Man, the divine experiment, is the sole possessor of
the universe, for man alone can appreciate its wonders
and glories. At the base of life are the inorganic mineral
structures, then organic vegetable and animal life. Then
comes man at the apex of all organized life, the glorified
highest development of God's Creative Intelligence.
Man has not been "fearfully and wonderfully made"
without a purpose, and that purpose is quite plain to the
eye of every discerning beholder. There is a threefold
purpose in life: the enlargement of the mental conscious-
ness of the individual: the beautification of the physical
earth; the rendering of every surpassing excellent ser-
vice to our fellow man.
Man is a conscious thought of God. Through a
divine thought, all-wonderful man has come into being.
Through the lifting of man's thought, a greater, vaster
life begins to unfold. Man is a mind, not merely a man.
To man's shame he does not yet comprehend the imperial
majesty of his mental world.
God delights in the man who dares to think creative-
ly, to speak creatively, to live creatively. Let this little
book point the way to the unfoldment of mind which en-
ables man to use the divinity within him, and thus dis-
cover health, happiness, truth, opulence and God.
God is Light, Truth, Intelligence and Justice.
THOMAS R. GAINES,
646 N. Harper Avenue,
Los Angeles, California.
New Light from the Old Book
1
rrAsk and it shall be given unto you; seek and
ye shall find, knock and it shall be ope11ed unto
you."-Matt. 7:7-8.
In life, in nature, in the cosmos, wherever we turn
we find that mind and body are inseparable, neither one
is not in itself sufficient. We must combine desire and
work, faith and action, prayer and doing. Results come
from the harmonizing and fulfillment of the mental and
physical.
The average man sleeps. He does not know that his
life is a form of sin because of his tolerance and accept-
ance of a meagre life when all good things are at his
hand.
2
""Therefore, I say unto you, what things so
ever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye
receive them and ye shall have them."-
Mark 11:24.
Man, to whom all things are possible, to whom
nothing can be denied, in the main lives an impoverished
life in spite of the ringing promises of God. The sin of
sins is to live inadequately, to suffer or to fear. When
will man awaken from his sleep, when will he cease deny-
ing himself a beautiful life, when will he be what he has
been destined to become?
3
""Neglect not the gift ·that is in thee."-1 Tim.
4:14.
God has never severed his connections with man.
God is &
till the center of every man's life - saint and
sinner alike. God lives in every man because every man
bas come from God; therefore God is the Father of every
human being. God's greatest gift to man is mind. But
man so frequently chooses to use his mind as an instru-
ment of hindrance - or neglects to use it altogether.
Man sleeps, man toils, but man knows not life nor
(6)
New Light From the Old Book
the presence of the gift that is within him. Life is incom-
prehensible to man because he is unacquainted with the
possibilities of life. He does not see life - he awakens
for a moment, confused and puzzled, then he sinks back
into a sleep which he has no desire to throw off.
By his mind, man finds freedom or serfdom. The
highest employment of mind is to use it. Though we use
it erroneously at first, sooner or later we will find a per-
fect plan: practice will create perfection. With intelli-
gent mental control nothing can be denied us as we de-
velop a cr eative consciousness.
4
rryhou shalt also decree a thing and it shall be
established unto thee."-Job 22:28.
When man resolves, prays or decrees, his mind is in
action, so he becomes a creator. When man allows his
mind to lie dormant, he reduces himself to the plane of
the animal and condemns himself to a creature existence.
The spiritually awakened mind discovers his higher self,
which leads him to the discovery of God.
It is what we recognize and value that makes us and
builds our existence. That which we choose and accept
constitutes our life. Without a knowledge of truth, man
has little chance to select things of worth and value.
Without exact wisdom, man cannot be expected to choose
wisely or safely. When man decrees in ignorance, his
word is just as creative as his word spoken in pure truth.
When man creates in the consciousness of error,
chaos ensues. When man affirms in the dimension of
truth, harmony results. Truth is always a friend and lib-
erator of mankind. Therefore our first desire should not
be for things, but for the necessary understanding to en-
able us to identify those principles which will bring a
blessing in their use.
5
rrwisdom is the principal thing: therefore get
wisdom: and with all thy getting, get under-
standing."-Prov. 4:7.
When the light of pure truth enters the mind, wi.s-
(6)
New Light From the Old Book
dom immutably follows. The man who heaps up wealth
or possessions, and ignores the pursuit of truth and wis-
dom, will find little joy in his material affluence, as the
possession of understanding is necessary before man can
spend his money wisely.
In the proportion that man understands truth, man
lives profitably. To "understand" means the attunement
of a man's life with a well-spring of peace and power.
Only the man that is teachable can understand-he alone
is willing to become meek and learn to comprehend the
mysteries of the universe and the power of God.
The sole protection from harm, hurt, failure and dis-
ease is to know that by using the wisdom of life, these
hurtful conditions cannot come nigh our dwelling place.
The ways of understanding are pleasant, peaceful, prec-
ious; above all they are rising ways, planes above the
mire of sickness, fear and p.overty. God is understand-
ing, wisdom and intelligence. The moment a man elects
to live intelligently he arrays himself in a God-like robe
and casts off the rags of doubt, guesswork and error.
6
rrro the wise the way of life goeth upward."-
Prov. 15:24 R.V.
Life should be a steady ascending climb, not an un-
comfortable downward drag. When a man walks with
wise men, light is available to him. When he consorts
with fools and scoffers, he is inclined toward error, which
is mental and spiritual darkness.
The man who is not concerned about mind illumina-
tion and spiritual truth, is not moving his life upward to
the zone of health and happiness. The man who does not
cultivate his desires along the lines of spirit, lacks judg-
ment of values and will most certainly reap a harvest of
disharmony and tears.
The whole universe is found to be filled with limit-
less blessings, when man has the development and ap-
preciation to recognize them and utilize them. The man
who scorns truth and spirit is deceiving himself. He can
never find wisdom or spiritual power because of his
wrong attitude. The man who is humble in the possess-
(7)
Ne_
w Licht From the (lid B~k
ion of wisdom will rea'P riches and honor and constantly
find good.
As we trace the cause of all disease, suffering, war,
misery and failure we find it originates in "lack of under.
standing". With understanding, man shall live safely,
happily, securely and intelligently. Man's feeble attempt
to outshine the wisdom of God is comparable to a wisp
of a cloud trying to hide the sun from the whole earth.
Just as the sun out-lasts all mists, fogs and clouds. so does
the wisdom of God endure from generation to genera-
tion, from everlasting to everlasting.
7
ttGreat peace have they who love thy law: a1td
they shall have no occasion of stumbling."-
Ps. 119: 165 ERV.
Wherever we turn in life we find that a price is de-
manded for the possession of any blessing. In nature the
tree that is denied the sunlight withers, shrivels and dies.
Children in the slums, condemned to a sunless environ-
ment, grow weak and contract tuberculosis or other dis-
eases.
The whole universe thunders, "Laws must be ob-
served if peace and health are to be maintained''. If we
pull our radio aerial inside the window, we cannot hear
the radio broadcast. Likewise, unless we are attuned
with God's laws, we cannot begin to get out of life what
we should.
An hourly, daily, unceasing quest should be the dis-
covery and utilization of God's laws. God's laws em·
brace physical, natural, cosmic and divine triumphs.
Everything has come from God, therefore all laws are
divine, as they pertain to the wisdom and understanding
of God and are actually a part of God.
During the ministry of Jesus, He did not try to weak-
en the nature of men by holding out the promise of get-
ting something for nothing. He encouraged those who
listened to him to 'PaY the price for the blessing they de-
sired to achieve.
"Forgive that ye may be forgiven."
"Follow that ye may be fishers o-f men."
"Seek ye fit:'St the kingdom of God."
(8)
New Light From the Old Book
Any type of philosophy that pretends to teach that
i1; is right to expect something for nothing is erroneous.
Prayer itself is a discipline. It is physical, mental and
spiritual activity; therefore it is a fulfillment of the law.
So we are promised, "The prayer of faith shall heal the
sick." However, prayer and fasting, or prayer and health
discipline while sick and strong, will prevent sickness,
which is a larger achievement than curing illness.
8
rrrhe soul of the sluggard desireth and hath
nothing."-Prov. 13:4.
We live i:p a world of l~w and principle- not in a
universe of chance or luck. God expects of every man the
intelligent use of his body and mind. God equips man
with mental and physical forces not merely to have them,
but to use them. When man puts his powers into opera-
tion, they increase, multiply and unfold. When a man is
a slacker or a shirker, his powers lie dormant and though
he breathes he does not really live.
When man recognizes his tendency toward indol-
ence, and determines to overcome the sense of postpone-
ment and procrastination, and learns how to claim God's
blessings, then God feeds him most bountifully with the
"hidden manna" or spiritual wisdom which gives him
power of limitless potentiality.
As man grows wiser, he discovers he lives in a world
of cosmic Justice. He is governed by a law of Justice.
Life is go~ng and coming, sowing and reaping, and our
daily thoughts and habits determine the future quality
of our life. With the same measure that man metes out
to his neighbor, the universe measures back to him. If
a man wants to have friends, he must first show himself
to be friendly. If a man seeks to injure his neighbor, he
shoul~ remember what befell Haman who sought to slay
others and who instead was hanged on the gallows he
had prepared for Mordecai. "Man's mischief shall re-
turn upon his own head," says the psalmist, and "He that
leadeth into captivity shall himself go into captivity and
he that liyeth by the sword shall die by the sword."
(9)
New Light From the Old Book
9
rrwhen I was a child I spake as a child, I U1tdei--
stood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I
became a man I put away childish things."-
1 Cor. 13 : 11.
The purpose of life is spiritual experience; there
comes a time in every man's life when all physical things
pall him. The only solace and comfort in that dismal hour
is turning inward to the spiritual realm. Man is not placed
in the world to stagnate. He is placed here to unfold
and develop, to change for the better.
The idea of childhood is immaturity, but man doea
not have to remain immature- he should seize hold of
learning and thus broaden and exalt his life. Above all
should man seek spiritual power. "The flesh profiteth
nothing." Everything that is visible will presently dis-
appear, but the invisible cause endureth forever.
The origin of sickness, failure and death lies in the
desire for things. When man rises above the allurement
of things he finds peace and profit in the unseen. Youth
seeks the possession of things, age turns to the undimen-
sional. Youth is raw and knows not true values. Age is
mellowed in experience and turns to that which is of pro-
fit and worth.
10
ttBe ye thankful."--Col. 3:15.
Man should appreciate life and the possibilities of
life. Man should open every new day in the conscious-
ness of thankfulness for being alive and for the privilege
of another chance to live more wisely and more intelli-
gently. The sanest form of gratefulness is to be glad for
the possession of exact knowledge of God's laws and the
manner in which to utilize these divine principles.
The very least we can offer God is a grateful heart
for his manifold mercies toward us. When man forms
the habit of appreciation of even a slender blessing, soon
it will augment and increase: such is the creative nature
of appreciation.
Man is exhorted to "Magnify the Lord" and thus
glorify God through his expression of praise. In every-
thing should man give thanks - always should he mani-
(10)
New Light From the Old Book
fest the habit of thankfulness. Sorely does the world
need the light of joy. The happy heart is a doer of good,
/ wise is he who makes happiness a consistent habit.
11
tryhou madest hi-
m a little lower than the
angels."-Heb. 2:7.
Man has climbed to his present high estate not
through mere chance, but because of a divine purpose.
Man seems to be an experiment with God, so every new
life is a fresh attempt to demonstrate the majesty and
divinity of man.
Man should endeavor to live up to his God-like heri-
tage, never down to his creature inheritance. Man is div-
inely ordained to perfect himself, to be whole and well,
to enjoy all of God's blessings.
Man is created in the image and likeness of God, he
is filled with the spirit of God. Man is potentially a god
as he manifests a life of wisdom, power, health and un-
. derstanding, all God-sprung attributes.
The wretchedness and sickness of life belong to man
in his undeveloped state. When man recognizes he is the
begotten of God - a child of the Father - then all pow-
er becomes his and he ascends above the fogs and mists
of discord of the flesh and travail of the mind.
All things are man's when he turns from his lower
nature to his higher. When man dallies in the valley of
indecision and limitation, his eyes are blinded by the
darkness. When man lifts his consciousness to a loftier
plane, he finds the fullness .of the whole earth awaiting
him in the light of truth and vision.
12
trAnd God said let there be light and there was
light."-Gen. 1:3.
Darkness is the opposite to light - darkness and
light cannot demonstrate at the same moment. Truth is
the greatest light in all the universe. When man has the
light of truth as his only authority, no mishap can come to
him: his feet can never slip or falter.
Man is cautioned to be a doer as well as a hearer of
(11)
Ne~ Light From the Old ~ook
the word. The word of truth has creative authority -
it has the power to change conditions and dominate ci~­
cumstances. Man should learn to speak the word which
God spake of old and thereby "healed and delivered men
from their destruction".
Man, as a child of the Father, should not hesitate
to use his word to speak weakness from his person, and
establish strength within his bodUy parts. Jesus spake
the maximum in words when He stated, "It is the spirit
that guickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing: the words
that I speak unto you, they are the spirit, and they are
life."
Words and law are synonomous when man learns
God's laws and fulfills them, then man can command and
create as we are told God commanded and created.
13
rrFor I have no pleasure in the death of him that
dieth, saith the Lord God: therefore turn your-
selves and live ye."-Eze. 18:3 2.
All good comes from God. God's intention toward
man -personifies good. God wants man to be healthy,
wise and prosperous because God is man's Father. Even
as an earthly father cares for his children and is mindful
of them, to a vastly larger degree does God sustain,
guard and protect His erring sons and daughters.
Somehow man is inclined to refuse the counsel and
·aid of God and decides to walk his own blind way. As a
consequence the whole earth is in the throes of sickness,
crime, suffering and death. This unfortunate state will
continue until man returns to God and accepts His in-
structions as to the proper method of living.
God created the heaven and the earth, also man,
therefore who can better advise as to how man should
think, work and live? Man must get back to the first
cause - God - if he is to find healing and liberation
from his self-inflicted suffering and bondage.
God is not here to take, but to give -fully, richly,
abundantly. Mentally beclouded, man cannot recognize
the benign intentions of God and refuses to accept the
rich blessings of the earth, though they are offered free-
ly without money and without price.
(12)
New Light From the Old Book
God is mighty in strength and wisdom, but He does
not ·despise even the most unenlightened person. God
wants to shower His goodness upon all, but is compelled
to wait because of man's indifference, disbelief or igno-
rance. The least man can do is to ask, but even this
slight discipline is not willingly granted by indolent,
dark-minded man.
14
rrwhether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatso~
eve·r ye do, do all to the glory of God."-l Cor.
10:31.
Life is lived in two ways: in harmony, and out of
harmony. When man harmonizes his thoughts and life
habits with the laws of God, he thereby glorifies God.
When man chooses to live an intemperate, selfish life, he
fails to recognize his responsibility to God and thus con-
demns himself to an existence of disharmony and suffer-
ing.
The life of holiness is developed through an elim-
ination and refinement of self. Worry, fear, anger, hate,
sickness, evil are all reactions to disharmonious living. If
man is to be released from these bonds, he must rise
above them by the adoption of higher thoughts and im-
proved habits.
Overeating, gluttony, immoderation of any kind
'must be discarded if man is to live his best as God so
planned for him to live. Man's body is formed from the
food ·he eats, the oxygen he breathes and the water he
drinks, therefore he should study these elements most
closely. Man should Jearn to know God, but should also
learn to know himself and operate his life so that his
presence on earth is a constant glorification of God.
· When man is weary of suffering and becomes will-
ing to learn God's laws of food and life, and is obedient
in the practice of these Jaws, then will he possess, enjoy
and eat all the good of the whole earth.
15
rrLet them alone: they be blind leaders of the
.blind and if the blind lead the blind both shall
f;;~! in.to the ditch."-Matt. 1 5: 14.
(13)
New Light From the Old Book
God is all truth and God,..
s truth is always available
to every man when he desires it. It is the business of
man to pursue truth, not the business of God to force
truth upon His erring, unwilling children.
The earnest seeker of truth will ultimately attain it,
but first of all he must have a high hunger and deep de-
sire to know and experience truth. God's truth, not man-
made, spurious truth, grants freedom. Pseudo truth
creates one disappointment after the other. God's truth
is the master power that builds the City of Perfection for
every man who wills to erect such a fine city. God's truth
is also a master key that will unlock every treasure room
in the world.
Man is intended to come into knowledge of truth be-
cause man cannot lift or purify his spiritual life (which
is man's highest life), without being aware of and obey-
ing the conditions of truth which bring healing and bless-
ing in their observance and performance.
Truth is never operable without a purchase price of
use, discipline or obligation. God is not here to make
men idlers by granting them all they wish merely for the
asking or praying. Man is commanded to "Buy the truth
and sell it not". We cannot buy without a payment and
the payment God demands is fulfillment of the conditions
governing the particular thing we desire to demonstrate.
God does not desire men to be leaners and weak-
lings depending upon others. God commands His child-
ren to "be strong and quit yourselves like men". God
does not delight in the man who worships through fear,
but He does exult in the man who finds pure joy in His
worship.
The commandments of men are in vain ; the doc-
trines of selfish gain, no matter how alluring in their pre-
sentation and guise, do not bespeak divine truth. He
who believes in any false doctrine, weakens, suffers, sick-
ens and dies. God's divine truth as revealed to every
thinking man when practiced, brings health, peace, hap-
piness, life, wisdom and every form of necessary supply.
Man should examine his daily thoughts and activi-
ties. If Jiis obedience to these thoughts and activities is
affording him sorrow or suffering, it is a demonstration
of their unworthiness. No matter how deeply he has re-
vered them, they should be discarded or set aside, as they
do not prove their supposed worth or quality.
(14)
New Light From the Old Book
16
/ rrwalk in the spirit and ye shall not fulfill the
lust of the flesh."--Gal. 15: 16.
The fruit of the spirit is life, joy, peace, health, faith,
meekness, moderation and wisdom. The fruit of the flesh
is the opposite to these spiritual fruits. The harvest of
the spirit is gainful and prospering - the harvest of the
flesh is unsatisfying and disappointing.
These statements are not inferences against the nec-
essity and goodness of the flesh, but merely reminders
that the flesh itself is but the lesser part of life, as it rep-
resents the finite. When the body is placed in its proper
relationship to spirit, health returns to the body and
peace enters the mind.
The spirit in control means improvement and re-
freshment in body and mind. We read, "But if ye be led
of the spirit, ye are not under the law''. Punishment is
meted out to man when he is under the lash of the law.
The nature of law is to change man's mode of living when
he is at variance with the laws of life, whether they be
physical, mental or spiritual.
A peaceful, protected life can come but from one
source - observance of God's laws in every plane and
dimension of life and living. When this is done, life har-
mony will follow as immutably as day follows night.
17
rru is good for me that I have been afflicted; that
I might learn thy statutes."-Ps. 119:71.
When times are at the high tide of prosperity, man
turns his eyes away from God. He is entranced with the
sound of mad music, the glare of light, the shouting of
frenzied voices. He is plunged into a state of self-
hypnosis. He believes that entertainment and eating and
drinking are the real and true. But retribution follows;
lean times arise and the gay music is changed into a plain-
tive wail; the bright lights grow dim and flickering, and
appetite is lost for food and drink because eating and
drinking have brought intense physical distress.
So through suffering man is stopped on his mad rush
toward destruction and begins to take time to catch up
(15)
New Light From the Old Book
and think. As man thinks he finds that he has been living
an unreal life, he has been astray. He deceived himself
by relating himself to the shoddy and spurious, and now,
through the resultant suffering, his eyes have been open-
ed to truth.
Therefore to find God and to live in truth, it is nec-
essary we should be chastened in suffering so as to force
us to appreciate that which is infinite and true. It is even
spoken of Jesus "Though He were a son, yet learned He
obedience to the things which He suffered".
In the perfecting of ch aracter, the develo-pment of
personality and the enlargement of life, suffering plays
a prominent part. Let us not rail against our self-inflicted
wounds and distress for out of this chastening may come
forth a perfect life. At the moment we suffer we are
grievously troubled. Later, however, when God has
taught us how deeply we have sinned and how improvi-
dently we have lived, our suffering passes and the light
of truth enters our life and we give thanks for the bless-
ing and benefits of pain.
No matter how self-willed man may be, God never
forsakes him. Man may go down to the lowest depths of
sickness and misery, yet God is ever by his side r eady to
lift and heal him when man is ready to call upon Him.
)
18
rrBe not therefore a1txious saying what shall we
eat? or what shall we drink? or, wherewithal
shall we be clothed? For after all these things do
the Ge1ttiles seek, for your Heavenly Father
kno-weth ye have need of all of these things."-
Matt. 6:31-32.
God cr eated men and women and implanted desires,
passions and ap•
petites in the consciousness of human be-
ings. God understands the weakness of man, also his
strength. Man in himself is weak and finite. Man in God
is strong and infinite. Man's daily life should be lived
in God; ever should he have the perfect assurance in all
.of his comings and goings, "God is h ere".
God knows that the physical comforts of life) are
(16)
New Li~rht From the Old Book
necessary. Christ fed the multitudes; He himself fasted
and bade the disciples "turn aside and rest awhile".
Man's physical food builds his body parts, blood, nerves,
brain, muscle cells and bone. Therefore man is wise when
he eats in moderation unadulterated food fresh from the
earth or tree, laden with life-giving qualities of health-
imparting power.
Likewise man should wear clothes that please the
eye. As no man lives unto himself, in desiring to live his
best, recognizes his responsibility to his fellow man. Life
should not be suspense - rather should it be content-
ment. In man's finite knowledge life is stress and sus-
pense. In God's infinite wisdom life is protective content-
ment. Wise indeed is the man who lives securely in the
shadow of God's Infinite P1·esence.
19
rrA broken spirit d1·ieth the bones."-Pro.
17:22.
Cheerfulness is conducive to life and health. Worry,
solTOW, care and anxiety tend to disease, suffering and
death. Man should learn to live rejoicingly - to nurse
cheer and refuse to embrace worry. The rare life looks
for God's sunlight- the ordinary life sees but the dark-
ness of existence.
In the world, tribulation and good cheer are found
side by side. The tribulations of the world can be over-
come by a joyous consciousness and the acquisition of
wisdom.
To live rejoicingly is really an obligation, because
the joyous life is an inspiration to its possessor and a
blessing to all who enter his influence. God delights in
joy: let us therefore make our way joyous and our path-
way bright and shining by letting God into our life. "Re-
joice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice:·
20
rrBlessed are the 1neek for they shall inherit the
earth."-Matt. 5:5.
Christ declared, "I am meek and lowly of heart".
(17)
New Light From the Old Book
The humility of Jesus represented His wisdom and higher
knowledge. Blessed are those who are humble in under-
standing but not meek in ignorance. The wise man is
meek because of his enlightenment for meekness is a sym-
bol of intelligence, not self-depreciation. "Now the man
Moses was very meek, above all the men which were
upon the face of the earth."
Meekness is the fruit of a spiritual life. It is on a
par with peace, gentleness and faith, all products of
spirit. The man who is spiritually meek is cherished by
God and it is promised, "He will beautify the meek with
salvation".
The man who is high in grace and understanding is
humble and lowly in his own esteem, because he recog-
nizes how little he knows. "For whosoever exalteth him-
self shall be abased and he that humbleth himself shall
be exalted." Meekness of character disarms outer hates
and antagonisms and brings rest to one's soul.
21
ttA man's wisdom maketh his face to shine."-
Eccl. 8: 1.
When a man makes his life's quest the desire and
pursuit of wisdom and intelligence, he embarks on a God-
like adventure, for God above all is wisdom and perfect
intelligence. Wisdom is an inner light raying forth. from
the eyes and countenance of its possessor.
Knowledge is not wisdom - knowledge pertains to
man, wisdom is related to God. "For the wisdom of this
world is foolishness with God, but the wisdom that is
from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle and easy
to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits without
partiality and without hypocrisy."
In order to possess wisdom, man should diligently
seek to learn God's laws applying to body, mind and
spirit and use these laws day after day to unfold a beau-
tiful life of peace and power.
22
ttEvening and morning and at noon I will pray
and cry aloud and He shall hear my prayer."-
Ps. 55: 17.
(18)
New Light From the Old Book
God is ever ready to accede to the supplication of
man. God delights in gr anting the worthy requests that
are made known to him. The highest f orm of prayer is
the meekness of wisdom. When wisdom and understand-
ing are present, then man's life is an incessant, constant
prayer.
"God is a rewarder of them that diligently seek
Him." Pursue God in prayer, faith, intelligence and good
works - these are all forms of prayer. Even a thought
may be classified as a prayer and is often much more p o-
tent than a spoken plea.
Prayer should be a request for power to create -
not a supplication for created things. Prayer should be
from the heart to make it effective. Consistent prayer
steadies life and circumvents temptations. When man
lives in health and happiness, though no prayer issues
from his lips, he is actually praying without ceasing.
"There is no limit to the possibility of divine sup-
ply." God is able to do exceeding abundantly, above all
that we ask or think. Prayer should be offered according
to God's will ; often man, being lacking in judgment of
values, asks for something that might destroy. Therefore
God in His infinite wisdom and mercy withliolds that
which man requests. This refusal is entirely for man's
own benefit.
23
ttl will bless thee ... and thou shalt be a bless-
ing."-Gen. 12:2.
When man has the inner conviction and realization
that he is living a God-like life, he is not only blessing his
own life, but is actually a blessing to all who pass him by.
The man of God, and a man of God is he who seeks
to live his highest and best, has power to heal the sick
and inform the ignorant through the preaching of the
word of truth.
When man opens his understanding, when he seeks
to know the principles and secrets of life and of the uni-
verse, he becomes a man of God, as personal life-enlarge-
ment of the individual is the precise intention of God
toward man.
The man of envy, hate, narrowness and anger is a
(19)
New Light From the Old Book
menace to himself and to society. He is leading an un-
curbed emotional life. He is a repellant and dangerous
member of society until he is quickened into a reforma-
tion of his dark ways.
Man must ever be held responsible for his own per-
sonal life. Therefore, wise beyond measure is the man
who by his superior life deserves the blessing of God and
thus becomes an asset to himself and a joy and comfort
to his fellow man.
24
rrrhe slothful man saith, there is a liot~ without,
I sl:1all be slai1t in the streets."-Prov. 22:13.
The man of sloth is always inventing obstacles favor-
ing delay and waiting. The slothful man usually has an
inventive, ready imagination, but his purse is empty and
he is not as a rule a useful member of society.
Man is placed on the earth to think and to work.
When man neglects either essential, his life thus becomes
limited and inadequate.
The man that is not in harmony with God's laws
should array himself with the cloak of inspiration and
proceed to learn how to live a perfect life.
The fate of the indolent is vain regrets and tears
for unseized opportunities. "And cast ye the unprofit-
able servant into outer darkness ; there shall be weeping
and gnashing of teeth." God does not punish the lazy
man - laziness itself, its unhappy reaction, provides a
source of travail and castigation.
It is never too late to mend one's way. God never
closes the doorway that leads to the life-beautiful. A
deep desire to change is the impulse toward a recognition
of the futility of a slothful life. God is action and wis-
dom. Indolence represents stagnation and improduct-
iveness. We should learn to choose that which is gainful
and profitable and find our way back to the living of a
constructive life.
25
rrFor where your treasures are, there will your
heart be also."-Luke 12:34.
(20)
New Light From the Old Book
Man's held, gripped thoughts, are his most influen-
cing principles, because they are of his heart. Whatever
a man values most, there will man's heart be concentrat-
ed. How essential it is to become cognizant of values, to
treasure in our heart things of worth, things of conse-
quence.
The undeveloped man has unfruitful, insolvent col-
lections in his heart. The developed, understanding man
has actual treasures stored away. The greatest treasure
of all to acquire is knowledge of values; otherwise man
cannot depend on what he treasures.
The test of all treasures is not in the buying or in its
storing. The real proof of value lies in its selling worth.
Frequently it is wise to test our "heart treasures" and
see if they really measure up to our valuation. If man's
~o-called treasures become outworn or valueless they
should be immediately ousted, so that the space they oc-
cupy may be used for things of genuine value; thus is
built a solvent life.
26
rrlf ye know these thi1tgs, happy are ye if Jle do
them."-John 13: 17.
Wisdom is knowledge utilized. Man should not stop
at the discovery of God's laws. He should proceed to put
them into operation. The sin of omission is of more grav-
·ity than the sin of commission.
If food is set before a starving man and he refuses
to partake of it for a certain period of days, he dies from
starvation - self-inflicted. The whole universe is alive
with potentiality and all is placed there to favor man.
However, these forces must be discovered and applied
before they can prove gainful.
When man discovers superior methods of living and
uses them, he is thereby made happy. Consequently man
should ever be on the alert to discover improved ways of
living and use these methods constantly for the upbuild-
ing of his life and the glory of God, who cr eated these
super-laws for the benefit of man.
27
rrEven Christ .pleased 1zot hintself."-Rom.
15:3.
New Light Frpm the Old Book
Power comes not from doing what man desires to do,
but from refraining from so doing, unless it is related to
truth. Man is still in the throes of immaturity and still
lacks full wisdom and apprehension of what is right and
true. Consequently when man acts on what he desires
and thinks to be right, that is no proof that the action is
wise or intelligent.
Few men possess the power of will to discipline
themselves and self-supervise their thoughts and actions.
Man thinks and acts and then must rea-p the harvest of
his thoughts and actions. There is no way of escaping the
garnering of our past life. It must be harvested whether
it be good or evil. To ensure its goodness man must not
only feel that his thoughts are right, but likewise must
know they are proper and wise.
Life will ever remain a discipline, to prevent man
from doing what he wants to do, which in all probability
would mean his downfall because of lack of understand-
ing. Man should learn to do what is right, thus proving
that pure understanding and self-discipline are in the ul-
timate, the salvation of man.
28
rrFor the love of money is the root of all evil."
-1 Tim. 6:10.
It is not evil to work for money or to accumulate a
sufficiency of money to provide for every worthy want
and need. The abuse of money is the root of all evil.
Often man is corrupted by money, particularly by being
a recipient of unearned money.
The man who receives large sums of money without
working for it or earning it, often finds the reaction to its
possession brings sickness, worry or enslavement. The
prophet says, "But they that will be rich fall into tempta-
tion and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts,
which drown men in destruction and perdition".
The danger of becoming rich is that the possessor of
riches not being wise in God's laws, may unknowingly use
his wealth to the detriment of God's divine purposes for
man; and very often rich men lose their possessions be-
cause they were being put to a wrong use and thus inter-
fered wi'th God's wise intentions.
(22)
New Light From the Old Book
Money comes from God; money is intended to be
helpful to man. When man sets his heart on riches, God
is often usurped; thereby man destroys his happiness.
The riches of the earth are uncertain. They should not
be heaped up. The riches of the spirit are certain and
should be everlastingly sought.
Moderation in money-hoarding is an excellent inten-
tion. Man cannot serve God and mammon. When money
is the chief quest and aim of a man's life he will soon find
that he has nothing. When the desire for wisdom comes
first, man will discover he has money, fame, joy, peace
and everything that is good and gainful.
29
rryhe Lord is good to all and his tender mercies
are over all his works."-Ps. 145:9.
God is not opposed to any man - freely He offers a
brimming measure of His richest blessings to every per-
son who will learn to claim and enjoy them. All good
comes from God. What is considered evil is a creation
of man's ignorance. God delights in the ha'Ppiness and
welfare of mankind, but man cannot expect God to feed
and clothe him. God does more than His part--He meets
man more than half way. However, man must take the
initiative and strive to help himself from God's limitless
storehouse of rich supply.
God is very close to the man who endeavors to live
his highest and best. He never forsakes any man no mat-
ter how low he may descend in ignorance and so-called
evil. God helps especially the man who is trying to as-
cend from the valley of limitations and darkness. He is
beside him in his upward climb every step of the way.
God is with all men, but we read, "In every nation
he that feareth Him and worketh righteousness is accept-
ed with him". God despiseth no man, He never closes
the door against any person, but He delights when some
erring son lifts his head and his heart and calls out, "My
F ather, help me back to manhood".
30
rrl/ ye bite and devour one another take heed
that ye be not consumed one of another."-Gal.
5: 15.
(28)
New Light From the Old Book
Envy and hatred are destroying habits that should
be persistently fought. Life is too brief to spend precious
time hating or envying. When man sets out to judge his
fellow.man he comes under the law of judgment himself.
Christ said "If any man hear My words, and believe not,
I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but
to save the world".
When man concentrates on picking flaws in others
he consumes his time thereby, therefore he has no time
left to seek and eliminate the flaws in his own heart and
life. Again Jesus says, "And why beholdest thou the
mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the
beam that is in thine own eye?"
God will call every man to account for his own life.
If we have exhausted our available time in judging and
condemning others, naturally our personal life will be
imperfect, and the weakness we condemned in other men
we neglected to find in ourself. So God in His divine wi~,>­
dom will demand of us as to the unrighteous life we may
have lived.
In the judgment of others, the first consideration
should be, "Have I myself the truth?" If we have sick-
ness, unhappiness or ignorance, we have not the truth,
therefore we should be slow to condemn and still slower
to force our ideas on others. Very often that which is
considered an evil yesterday, is found to be a virtue to-
day. And yesterday's virtue often changes into a repug-
nant evil today.
There is no love in judgment against others, or im-
peding the advancement of others. "Let us not therefore
judge one another any more: but judge this rather that
no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his
brother's way."
Man, through his finite mind, judges from exterior
appearances and is often self-deceived. God alone can
judge justly because in His infinite way He looketh into
the heart of man and that which is in man's heart re-
veals his true thoughts and intentions. "Judge not and
ye shall not be judged, condemn not and ye shall not be
condemned. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall
be judged, and with what measure ye mete it shall be
measured to you again."
"And he said unto them, do violence to no man,
(24)
New Light From the Old Book
neither accuse any falsely and be content with your
wages."
Man should aim to live and unfold his life in the
consciousness of good will toward all men. The man who
is a liar or talebearer, must answer some day for every
single transgression. "Every idle word that men shall
speJlk, they shall give account thereof in the day of judg-
ment, for by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy
words thou shalt be condemned."
The man who lives to injure or hlJrt his fellow man
is laying up a "harvest of tears". The words of a tale-
bearer are as wounds, but the wounds will not be worn
by the condemned but by the talebearer. It is righteo1,1s
to cover up a transgression or weakness in another life
and unrighteous to uncover and spread a long forgotten
fault or outgrown weakness.
When man keeps close to God and obeys His laws,
he never descends to the misuse of speech against his
neighbor; his heart is filled with love for all men, and he
has set a watch on his lips. So he bridles his mouth if
tempted to speak spitefully against another. "Whatso-
ever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so
to them."
31
rr]ealousy is cruel as the grave."-Song of Solo-
mon 8:6.
When the habit of jealousy is allowed to take root
within the mind, every form of evil thinking is attracted
into the mentality. The mind becomes confused, the brain
is darkened, the nerves are awry. The issues of life are
in the mind: when the darkness of jealousy is allowed to
manifest there, contradiction, envy, hate and confusion
result.
Jealousy and pure love can never dwell together;
therefore wise is the man who keeps his mentality filled
with good will toward his fellows and love for God. Then
the destructive seeds of jealousy can never find soil
wherein to thrive and multiply.
(25)
New Light From the Old Book
32
rrpoverty and shame shall be to him that refus-
eth instructions, but he that regardeth reproof
shall be honored."-Prov. 13:18.
The universal law is change- the man who stays in
a rut is not living up to his divine possibilities. Man
should learn to observe the constant change that is ever-
lastingly at work in nature and throughout the whole
earth. God reveals new truths to man as he is ready to
comprehend them. The man who closes his mind to new-
ness is shaming his entire existence. It is a sign of man's
divinity when he opens himself to discovery and improve-
ment.
Living life is the greatest of earthly business. The
man of intelligence seeks to alter and change his mode
of living for the better. The foolish man boasts, "I never
change my mind". So he closes many sources of power
and avenues of supply. To change and learn better modes
af thinking and living is a sign of progress. To be satis-
fied is always a mark of inferiority and life retrogression.
Man should examine his life and learn to profit by
every experience including criticism. The proper atti-
tude for meeting criticism is not to ignore it, but to scan
it. If there is merit in the censure advanced, make a nec-
essary change to eliminate the weakness. If the criticism
is unjust, merely forget it.
Often it takes censure and blame to blast men out of
their ruts of error into intelligent action. Criticism, there-
fore, may be a blessing if handled wisely.
33
rrAnd the Lord God said, it is not good that the
man should be alone."-Gen. 2:18.
Marriage is a divine institution. Man and woman
are inadequate alone. Man needs woman, woman is in-
complete without man. Man and woman in marriage
should be suited to each other's needs - they should
learn to pursue the same quests and leanings so as to ex-
press perfect happiness. They should grow into each
other's longings and desires to the exclusion of all other
attractions. "Wherefore they are no more twain, but of
(26)
New Light From the.Old Book
one flesh. What, therefore, God hath joined together,
let not man put asunder."
When the divine origin of marriage is recognized,
.and its laws and principles are observed by husband and
wife, a blessed union must surely follow. Human ha•ppi-
ness that is of God follows the union that is blended in
spiritual, unselfish love, and merged into a simple home
that is not darkened by debt or discord of any kind.
When husband and wife are contrary in their
thoughts and activities, until an understanding is reach-
ed, disharmony alone will breed. The greatest protection
for man and woman lies in marriage, but both must do
their part to make their union perfect in the sight of God
and man.
A wife should love, honor and respect her husband.
A husband should so live that his wife may ever continue
to love, honor and respect him. "Better is a dinner of
herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred there-
with."- Prov.l5 :17.
Patience, unselfishness, appreciation and under-
standing should be installed in the minds of both husband
and wife. God is where perfect love holds sway. God
desires that men and women be happy. Married happi-
ness is not only a blessing for husband and wife, but an
absolute essential wherever children complete the union.
34
u And God shall wipe away all tears fro1n their
eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither
sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any
more pain for the former things are passed
away."-Rev. 22:3.
The plan of God for man is ultimate perfection. As
the years pass, more and more of the powers and possi-
bilities of the universe will be discovered, revealed and
utilized. It is plainly God's plan to evolve a painless,
sickless, deathless world for men and women. God is
above all harmony, and in due time man will discover his
divine heritage, supreme harmony, and will learn to live
in accord with God's laws concerning man and in that
moment sickness, sorrow, suffering and death will pass
away.
(27)
New Light From the Old Book
Whenever there is conflict with the laws of God, dis-
cord of body, mind and spirit immutably follow. All
sickness is the reaction to transgression of Iaw. When
man has the will to live in accordance with the divine,
but easily followed conditions of God, health, joy and
peace must surely follow.
35
rrHe that overcometh shall inherit all thi1tgs and
Jwill be his God and be shall be my son."-Rev.
21:7.
Temptation is ever at the side of all men, because
life will ever remain a form of competition or testing.
The man who learns to do well, and wills to continue to
do well, is protecting his happiness, health and very life.
To overcome means the acquisition of strength and men-
tal acuteness. To accede to temptation, gluttony and
evil, means a leaning toward weakness and mental slug-
gishness.
Everything that man needs is available to him when
he t ums to the true sources of supply. Every blessing of
God - health, happiness, joy, power, supply, peace,
eternal life - all are offered freely and lavishly to every
man who overcomes the weakness of ignorance, indiffer-
ence or any limiting, hindering impotence of the flesh.
Man may enjoy every rich blessing for it is written
"all things are yours." When man turns from lower things
to higher, the supply of the infinite is ~vailable to him.
36
rrlf ye be willi11,g a1~d obedient ye shall eat the
good of the land."-Isa. 1:19.
Surpassing all other divine attributes, God is jus-
tice. "For the Lord God is a sun and shield, the Lord will
give grace and glory, no good thing will He withhold
from them that walk uprightly." God is pleased to re-
ward man when he is deserving of it. Search the script,.
ures with judgment and diligence and it is plainly writ.
ten over and over again, "reward goes to him who is wor-
thy and deserving." His is rightly so, as God is justice
(28)
New Light From the Old Book
and there would be no incentive in living uprightly were
it not that a special blessing follows so doing.
The meek shall inherit the earth - not the presump-
tuous boaster. The obedient shall eat the good of the
land, not the violator and b·ansgressor. The man, whose
works are good, is promised glory, honor and peace. The
man of mischief or wrong-doing shuts himself out of the
range of these blessings through his destructive mode of
living. The man who endureth temptation is blessed.
The man who surrenders to temptation sentences himself
to bear a heavy and evil yoke.
The fruit of the life of a man who opens himself t<~
learning and obedience is perfection. God wants men
to lead perfect lives, but men must learn to live in a high-
er way and meet the requirements laid down by God.
Thus, and thus alone, can man find his rightful high place
in the universe, and make his life what it was intended to
be, "a glorious experience".
37
rr And God said, Behold, I have given you every
herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all
the earth, and every t1-ee in the which is the
fntit of a t1'ee yieldi11,g seed: to you it shall be
for meat."-Gen. 1:29.
Many of the mighty animals of the earth live on
leaves and grass. God's original command to man to eat
of fruits, grains, vegetables and nuts would seem from
the standpoint of divine judgment to be the ideal food
for man. Man was compelled to resort to the eating of
animal flesh after the flood because vegetables and fruits
were scarce or unobtainable.
It is proven that natural herbivorous food will sus-
tain life and maintain health, so wise is the man who con-
sumes with his animal flesh an abundance of fruits, whole
grains and vegetables. A simple, nourishing diet will
build health and strength. We read, "There was not one
feeble person among the tribes". God is not anxious to
punish man, but man through his ignorance punishes
himself by eating devitalized food, thereby transgressing
against God"s laws and suffering deeply as a conse-
quence.
(29)
New Light From the Old Book
"I will take sickness away from the midst of thee."
God is all health and man, created in God's image, too is
potentially all health, but due to man's ignorance in diet-
etic laws he brings sickness and suffering upon himself.
The beast of the field never eats when ill, but man does;
so we are commanded to "speak to the beast in the field
and he will instruct thee".
Man is admonished, "Know ye not that your body is
the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye
have of God, and ye are not your own?" Gluttony,
strong drink, intemperance of any sort, is a degradation
of self and the man who so lives never glorifies God in
his own body, nor does he eat or drink or live to the glory
of the Lord.
38
trif thou wilt diligently harken to the voice of
the Lord thy God and wilt do that which is right
in his sight, and wilt give ear to his command-
ments and keep all his statutes, I will put none
of these diseases upon thee which I have brought
upon the Egyptians: for I am the Lord that heaf-
eth thee."-Ex. 15:26.
Sinning can never produce health. The punishment
for any form of transgression is meted out in pain and
suffering. God, being pure justice, rewards or punishes.
When man sins knowingly or unknowingly, he is subject
to the necessary punishment to force him to reflect and
discover the cause of his torment. Sickness and pain are
not really forms of punishment, but they are signals to
erring man that he is living in a state of darkness and
ignorance.
When pain troubles the man of wisdom, he seeks to
learn the cause of his distress. When the foolish man is
visited by pain, he proceeds to treat the symptom and
neglects the cause, and the cause is violation of God's
laws. The body is the temple of the spirit and should
not be defiled. God deals out punishment to those who
desecrate their temple of the Holy Ghost. "If any man
defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the
temple of God is holy, which temple ye are."
(30)
New Light From the Old Book
It is never too late to return to the observance of
God's laws and find health of body; hear his promise,
"Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy
diseases." Jesus spent most of his time ministering to
the sick and healing all manner of disease among the
people. Saith the Lord, "Thou shalt not eat any abom-
inable thing". Health of mind and body are chiefly de-
pendent on the quality of the food man eats, therefore
it i~ seemly and good to learn how to eat to the glory of
the Lord.
39
rrFinally brethren, whatsoever things are true,
whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever
things are just, whatsoever things are pure,
whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things
are of good report; if there be any virtue and if
there be any praise, think on these things."-
Phil. 4:8.
Life contains light and darkness, but there is much
more light than darkness in the world. When man in-
clines towards things of the darkness he finds his world
a dark one. When man concentrates on the things of
the light, his personal world begins to take on more sun-
shine and brightness.
The greatest enemy to man's progress and happiness
is dark thinking. Dark thinking builds a dark life as all
forms of thought are creative. When man forsakes his
unhappy mode of thinking and establishes higher
thought in his mind, he will naturally begin to search for
nobler enterprises and choicer conditions in his daily life.
Habitual dark thinking is not only a waste of time,
but a source of destruction to the man who manifests such
an ignoble mental habit. Besides, those who are com-
pelled to live in the environment of the man who thinks
wrongly are greatly injured in body and mind because of
this pernicious contact.
Wise beyond words is the man who resolves to be a
blessing to the world, and persistently searches and as-
pires for the cultivation of the life beautiful. Man dis-
honors his brain when he uses it to worry, or as an in-
(31)
New Light From the Old Book
strument of mental anguish or self-torture. God tries
to teach men and women the value of health, happiness
and beauty, but the stubborn mind of man often refuses
to accept the way of joy, peace and rich supply. Accord-
ingly millions live in life darkness because of their refus-
al to seek God's way of light and truth.
Man's mind is God's most precious gift to man. Man
honors God and himself when he uses his brain and mind
to make life more pleasant and profitable here on earth.
The sigh of man is lost in the atmosphere. The song of
man brings back a lilting echo of inspiration and glad-
ness; always it is good and profitable to be glad.
40
rrFor whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he
also 1"eap."-Ga1. 6:7.
A fig tree cannot bring forth a thistle, like brings
like. Every man finds himself in a world of law, order
and principle. It is of scant use hoping for better days
to come if man does not proceed to live in a higher way
in the present hour; thus alone is a better future life
assured.
Nothing can come from nothing. God waits to honor
when man honors himself by learning how to live in
goodness and truth. The man who thinks the future is
going to surpass the present is deceiving himself. Today
is a seed of tomorrow. If today is crowded with darkness,
pessimism and selfishness, the following day will prove
to be of exactly the same brand. However, if today holds
a struggle to rise, an aspiration to advance, a desire for
wisdom, then the following day will hold more light and
opportunity than the previous day.
It is not God's business to force His blessing on man.
Man is here to think and learn. When man learns and
unfolds in wisdom, he knows that life is limitless and he
is here to sha re with God in the fullness of His divine
supply. Sickness, fear, worry, hate, weakness are the
dark seeds of life sown by ignorant man. Health, cour-
age, power, forgiveness, strength are the great seeds of
life sown by enlightened man. God glories in the man
who has learned to sow the seeds of life tha t will bring
more beauty, health, light and vision into the hearts of
all mankind.
(32)
New Light From the Old Book
"He that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap
life everlasting." "Who will render to every man accord-
ing to his deeds, glory, honor and peace to every man
that worketh good." Wherever we turn, the promise
stares out at us: "No good thing will He withhold from
them that walk uprightly".
41
rrNo man hath seen God at any UtJte."-John
4:12.
God is infinite and undimensional, that is the reason
He is never fully discovered even by the most saintly
and most righteous man. If God were dimensional, if He
were weighable and measurable, He would be on the
plane of man and would meet with contempt from many
instead of reverence.
God pervades the entire universe, but He can never
be tangibly located. Man can feel Him, but not see Him
with human eyes. God will never be found in sight, but
He is ever found in feeling. In God there is no begin-
ning and no ending. God was, is and ever shall be, but
the physical eye can never behold or locate His presence
because it is macrocosmic.
In God are hid all the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge, and these rich possessions are freely offered
to man when he is knowing enough to seek them. God
holds all good things in His hands. His single aim is to
bring health, happiness and deliverance to mankind.
"God giveth to all men life, health, every good thing and
worthy substance."
God is spirit and intelligence ; therefore to worship
God rightly man should live·his life in the demonstration
of spirit, truth and intelligence. Everything comes from
God. When we adjust our ways to His laws, every good
gift becomes ours. There is nothing higher than God and
yet He ever stands at the side of the lowest man. God is
in the earth and likewise He is in man, but God is not of
the earth or of man.
Man can find length of days, health and prosperity
in just one way - that is by seeking God and following
His divine precepts. "For whoso findeth Me findeth life
and he shall obtain the favor of the Lord." Men find trib-
ulation and darkness in life, but God is light and there is
(33)
New Light From the Old Book
no suffering in Him. Man guesses and hopes, but God
knows and acts, always right and just is He.
When love wells lfP in the heart of man, God is more
easily found, for God is love and love ever seeks its own
spring. Man can never find perfection unless he studies
God. "The law of thy mouth is better unto me than
thousands of gold and silver." "What are the laws of
life ?., man asks. Everything that is necessary to exist.
To breathe, to eat, to think, to sleep, to move, to study,
to pray, to live, all are laws and principles created by
God; consequently all things from the lowest to the high-
est are divine.
Happy is the man who wills to walk at liberty and
turns to the service of life liberation -the study of God's
•
precepts. "And I will delight myself in Thy command-
ments, which I have lived." God is honored by the man
who greatly seeks to obey his commandments. Why
should man delay in seeking God when we read "Every
good and perfect gift is from above"?
God hides nothing irrevocably from man. God gives
man necessary suffering to force his unfoldment by self-
thinking and self-searching for His desired blessings
which may be obtained by diligent pursuit. Though "no
man hath seen God" He is ever discovered by all who
seek him zealously and persistently.
42
rrThe Lord is g1·acious and full of compassion,
slow to anger and of great mercy."-Ps. 145:8.
God is pure intelligence and the man who endeavors
to live intelligently, demonstrates that he is reaching for
a God-like dimension of life demonstration. God is filled
with power to heal all mankind, and when those who are
sick will learn to eat in moderation and turn their eyes
to God, healing will flow to them.
God not only heals and answers prayers, but He re-
wards all those who live in harmony with His necessary
laws. Man starves amid plenty, man sits in darkness
though surrounded by light, because his mind has not
been stirred to the possibilities that God has placed with-
in his reach.
God heals, blesses and works in a thousand different
(34)
New Light From the Old Book
ways. He exemplifies patience, graciousness, compassion
and justice in all of His contacts with man. His everlast-
ing arms are beneath every man who dares to trust His
limitless strength. The highest duty of man is to under-
stand God as He is revealed in nature, life and living.
The way of life is easy to the man who knows God and
follows His commands for the benefit of man. The Jaws
and beliefs of man are finite and imperfect. The Jaws of
God are perfect. Perfection of living cannot flow from
an imperfect source - man. A 'perfect life can be ob-
tained from God through the habitual practice of His
commandments.
God being closer to man than his hands and feet, is
instantly aware of a man's desire to live in peace. He
stands r eady to sustain man in his climb toward the as-
cending way, which is God's way, therefore the highest
and best manner of expressing life.
43
rrcome unto me, all ye that labor and are heaV')I
laden and I will give you rest. Take my JIOke
upon you and learn of me; for I am meek and
lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your
souls. For my yoke is easy, and 'ltty burden is
light."-Matt. 11:28-3 0.
Man must ever wear a yoke or undergo a discipline.
The discipline of God is mild and easy. The discipline of
man is heavy and grievous to bear. When man ignores
the laws of God and decides to J.ive his own life, he auto-
maticallyt sentences himself to distress and sickness. Man
without knowledge of God's laws is lost and adrift, and
his every h our is manifested in darkness and punishment.
Release from suffering is nothing more or less than
a coming to God, a turning away from the darkness of
the world to the light of truth and wisdom found in God.
"A man of learning is not exempt from sickness and tor-
ment of the flesh." Relief from discord and disease lies
in the knowledge and observance of God's laws. Not
only must man know the truth, but he must fulfill the
truth, and thus he finds supreme ease and joy in living.
A good man is not a worldly wise or educated man,
(35)
New Light From the Old Book
but a man who pursues the understanding of God and
His laws with the idea of perfecting and improving his
daily life. The understanding of God's laws is designed
"to open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from
the 'Prison and them that sit in darkness out of the prison
house.'' Man's understanding; is the prison house of life.
God's understanding is the freedom of life and every man
is free to choose whom he shall serve - God or man.
God does not sew the seeds of groundless fear into
the heart of man : man does that himself. God does not
plant the spirit of distress into the mind of man: man
alone is responsible. God does not generate darkness in
the soul of man : man also does that. God does not place
the blight of disease in the body of man: man creates his
own ills. God is not the God of destruction and death :
man creates all evil through his darkness. The works
of God are all good and perfect. "0 Lord how manifold
are thy works. In wisdom thou hast made them all ; the
earth is full of thy riches."
The only lasting security and perpetual gladness
comes from knowledge of God. God, through the ap-
plication of His laws, will deliver every man from his
troubles. Call upon God, trust Him and abide in Him,
and life will take on a new and higher meaning. "If ye
abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask
what ye will and it shall be done unto you."
The supreme delight of life is found in the laws of
God and their constant use. True prosperity follows the
man of God. Every new day is a day of reward for the
righteous. God rewards the righteous - he highly re-
compenses those who follow Him. The man who livee
with God finds his ·prayers answered before they are
uttered. The man who lives without God is ever flounder-
ing in the swamps of trouble, unfilled desires and dis-
couragement.
44
rrLet them praise the name of the Lord, for he
co?nmm·tded and they were created."-Ps.
148 :5.
God is the creator, but man is formed in the divine
image and likeness ; therefore man too possesses creative
(36.)
New Light From the Old Book
power. By thought, vision and word, may man create.
All that God created has been created in truth; there-
fore it lasts. Man is created in truth; therefore man
continues to exist in spite of war, pestilence, famine, dis-
ease and ignorance.
God has a purpose in all of His creations, and that
purpose seems to he the development of beauty. "He hath
made everything beautiful in His time." Beauty and use-
fulness are synonymous, and blessed is the man who
makes his life beautiful and his service excellent.
As God thinks His desires into manifestation, so can
man to a lesser degree. God thinks or speaks and the
whole universe is submissive to His will. When man is
faithful to the practice of divine principles, the whole
earth is on the side of man. God decrees and fulfillment
follows, and the power to create is handed down to every
child of humanity.
God is concerned about all of His creations, so He is
attached to everything to sustain, 'Prosper and bless it.
God is ever in man and when man chooses to call upon
God, the response is instantaneous. When man finds life
dark or evil, he is attuned with life in an earthly way.
To find beauty and peace in life, adjust yourself to the
principles of life according to God's infinite Jaws.
Everything in the visible and invisible reflects the
creative power of God. The handiwork or creative in-
telligence of God is manifested in the macrocosm, t he
seen and the unseen. God is a spirit, so God is death-
less. Man, too, is a spirit and comes under t he order of
deathlessness because he is as God is His likeness, His
image, His possibilities.
God not only created all things, but he is the up-
holder and preserver of the planets, suns, man, seas,
creeping things, birds, the fish in the ocean - everything
is dependent upon the intelligence of God. God person-
ifies truth, wisdom and good in all of His creations. So
how good it is to praise Him who is so awesomely wise
and yet so gentle and approachable.
God is the author of man and He ever seeks to im-
prove His works. Man is the activity of God. Woman
is God's smile. He wills that the whole world be filled
w.ith men and women, .and it has come to pass. Men and
women are co-workers with God to develop and unfold
(3'7>
New Light From the Old Book
in truth and understanding, so that the purpose of God,
the beautification of the earth and the development of
man, may become accomplished facts.
45
rrBut they that wait upon the Lord shall renew
their strength, they shall mount up with wings
as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, and
they shall walk and not be faint."-ls. 40:31.
Man, who is earthbound in his desires and tenden-
cies, cannot realize the freedom and bliss of the under-
standing and practice of God's laws. If man knew God
as he ought to be known, men would be workers of mir-
acles and doers of the seemingly impossible.
God's spirit is in every man, a power so colossal that
it conquers hunger, thirst, grief, enor, sorrow, decrep-
itude, disease and death. This majestic principle is ever
available to those who earnestly seek it. Life is trans-
cendant in its possibilities to those who seek attunement
with God. Nothing seems to be impossible to the man of
God - that is, the man who lives in the light of truth,
wisdom and beauty.
Men and women who have ignorantly given them-
selves over to gluttony and sleep, and sought not God,
should try to realize their danger and cease over-eating
and over-sleeping, and instead desire to get back to the
way of God and truth. Ever does the flesh lust against
the spirit, but the spirit is the real and alone will endure.
The form destroys itself and turns to dust, but the
essence dieth not.
The greatest of all wisdom is to know that the spirit
is greater than the flesh, because the spilit being of God
is deathless. But the laws of the flesh must be observed
so that the spirit can have a perfect instrument on which
to perform.
46
rrEver learni1tg, and never able to come to the
knowledge of truth."-2Tim. 3:7.
"Practice in the direction of imperfection will never
(38)
New Light From the Olc;l Book
make perfection." Man must know the direction of truth
and if he moves toward that way, he will reach his ob-
jective. If man looks upon error as truth, no matter how
much is his practice, it leads him further and further
away from his goal.
Truth practiced ensures a harmonious life. The prac-
tice of error brings suffering and travail of soul. There
is but one God and all power is His. Foolish man thinks
that God is found in wood and stone, and worships these
false images. Men follow false teachings as a beast goeth
to be slaughtered. Error leads to failure, suffering and
death.
When man puts his trust in lying words, there is no
profit. When man guesses instead of knowing, his life is
insecure. When man follows the blindness of error, his
steps are treading dangerous ground. "Wherefore by
their fruits ye shall know them." In error, sickness, ills,
distress, misery and darkness are found. In truth, health,
ease, gladness and light are contacted. Let no man con-
tinue in the blindness of error. Let us unlearn that which
misleads and blfnds, and come into the light of truth
which bestows freedom on every man.
47
rrne not therefore anxious for the morrow, for
the morrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof."-Matt. 6:34.
The world is weary, sick and bleeding through fear
and worry. Man has not sought the Kingdom of He.aven
first, so he lives to fear and suffer. Pursuing the things
of the earth never brings lasting satisfaction. When man
lives his best today, tomorrow will take care of itself.
When man wanders in doubt and fear today, darker still
will he find tomorrow.
The Kingdom of Heaven is simply a glorified state
of mind discovered when man is pledged to the pursuit
of truth, wisdom and beauty. In these three attributes
God and Heaven are discovered here and now.
Many are called to partake of the privileges of the
Life-Beautiful, but few respond to the gracious invitation.
Men dally in the clutch of fear and limitation, and cannot
find time to investigate the wonders of God's promises to
(39)
New Light From the Old Book
mankind. The good seeds of life fall on barren ground
and human life remains arid and bleak.
The present use of life determines the quality of the
future. When the hours of today are used wisely and to
the glory of God, man has no occasion to worry about the
future. The protection of our future life is determined
by the vigilance and understanding we employ in our
thoughts and acts of today.
48
rrBehold, I send you forth as sheep in tbe ntidst of
wolves; be ye therefo1'e wise as serpents and
harmless as doves."-Matt. 10:6.
It seems to be the lot of every man who discerns a
basic truth ahead of his time, that his discovery is met
with antipathy and antagonism. Society being undevel-
oped and in a state of darkness cannot appreciate innova-
tion or anything beyond the accepted, limited ideas of
the ordinary mentality of that age.
Man should demonstrate everything in the nature of
a discovery in the consciousness that he is watched, that
he is suspected. This attitude puts man on his guard and
forces him to be at his best at all times. It also protects
him from those who spy on him and would despoil or tear
down his discovery and imprison him.
Whatever is unchallenged and accepted is always
at warfare against the new, even though the new is a
thousand times superior to the old. Tradition is ever the
enemy of progress, and progress comes from constant
change, which is God's law for the advancement of the
Universe. Truth may be held back for a moment, but
presently hindrance is ousted, barriers are crumbled,
opposition is overcome and truth triumphantly comes into
its own.
49
trBut I say unto you that ye resist not evil, but
whosoever shall smite thee on thy 1
·ight cheek,
turn to him the other also."-Matt. 5:39.
Man is still but a few scant days in his development,
(40)
New Light From the Old Book
so in this primitive age of immaturity too much cannot
be expected from youthful man. Christ in his wisdom
advises man not to resist evil, knowing what man con-
siders evil is in reality good. Also that which man be-
lieves to be good is often really a liability.
Christ also urges man to turn his left cheek to be
scourged after his right cheek has been beaten. Again
the wisdom of Jesus exemplifies itself. Man does not
learn by ease but by suffering. Chastening or punish-
ment are necessary for man's education. Man should
not shirk experience even though he suffers from it. Man
is rarely convinced by any experience save by that which
he personally experiences.
When man has learned the principles of truth he
prevents discord of any description coming nigh him. By
his unfoldment, he tends to render himself immune to
accident or suffering. Besides, in truth, man is able to
comprehend good, though it comes to him in the guise
of evil. What seems evil to the ordinary undeveloped
mind is a gleam of radiant light to the man who has pass-
ed through the experience of higher unfoldment.
50
rrA companion of fools shall be dest1'oyed."-
Prov. 13 : 20.
When man consorts with fools he finds no wisdom
in them. Man should walk with the wise to be wise.
Heights cannot descend, they must be mounted. It is a
sign of wisdom to forsake every form of weakness and
get into relationship with power.
We take on the consciousness of those with whom
we mingle. We tend to become like him with whom we
live. We grow into the ways of those we look upon with
appreciation and regard - whether they be wise or un-
wise. We are commanded, "Enter not in the path of the
wicked and go not in the way of evil men. Avoid it, pass
not by it, turn from it, and pass away." When man de-
velops his soul he has soul sight and is able to recognjze
good and evil. Without higher sight and a perfect under-
standing of values, life is certain to become complicated
and unsatisfactory.
Life is a form of sleep to many. Men are prone to
(41)
New Light From the Old Book
accept conditions unquestioningly; this is not the road to
wisdom. Let us awaken to a sense of perfect valuation
of things and people, and attach ourselves to that which
we know is good, though others may condemn it. Let us
develop the foresight to recognize those who are wise,
though the multitude dub them fools.
51
rrlf it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live
peaceably with all men."-Rom. 12: 18.
Gentle thoughts, gentle actions, gentle ways are all
marks of the God-like man. The blusterer and the arro-
gant man are piling up a harvest of future trouble. Every
man should aim for peace, particularly in the home.
When mental discord is allowed to roam in the confines
of a home, anguish and sickness may be expected to
follow.
Peace is comparable to the sweetness of honey. It
is a goodly possession. Man should learn to so live that
peace will ever turn in his direction. The man of war-
fare is usually prematurely destroyed by his own instru-
ments of death.
Man is under a pressing duty to himself and to soc-
iety. Man cannot live unto himself alone. Consciously
or unconsciously, he influences every person he meets.
Therefore it is the sacred obligation of man to learn how
to live in health, in faith, in knowledge, in peace with
himself and with all men. In doing so he lives his highest
and best, which is God's demand upon men and women.
52
rryhe righteous shall flourish like the palm tree,
he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon."-Ps.
92:12.
Long and wordy prayers, the wearing of sackcloth,
the observance of ritual or form, fear of God's wrath, do
not measure the righteous man. The righteous man is he
who seeks to learn God's laws and follow them so that
health of body, peace of mind, and joy of spirit will be
his lot while in the flesh. Such a dimension of living
means finding heaven while still here on earth . When a
(42)
New Light From the Old Book
man's ways are truly righteous, he not only pleases God,
but his enemies also are desirous to be on friendly terms
with him, as they fear and suspect his spiritual power.
The righteous man prospers and lives; his ways are
ways of pleasantness and constant harmony. The right-
eous man is righteous because he keeps the law and "he
that keepeth the law, happy is he." Righteousness is the
virtue of the soul and it ever marks the perfect and up-
right man.
53
rr1 have fought a good fight, I have finished 11ty
course, I have kept the faith."-2 Tim. 4:6.
What a glorious satisfaction to realize in the evening
of life that one has lived his highest and wisest. God
placed man on earth to learn how to live abundantly. The
body of man is fearfully and wonderfully arranged.
Every man should learn how to manage his body so that
it is free from pain and becomes the support of his soul.
Man should study his mind and watch his words and
thoughts, so that his mental world may be a source of joy,
peace and illumination to him. How good and how wor-
thy it is to live in happiness and communion with one's
self. The highest use man can make of his mind is to
employ it to further his quest for truth, wisdom and
beauty.
Man should place his trust in his soul, which is in-
finite, not in his lips which are finite. Man should let his
soul guide him into treasure ways of life. Man fights the
good fight and keeps the faith when he demonstrates
health of body, love of truth, peace of mind and trans-
cendency of spirit.
54
u Because straight is the gate a1zd narrow is the
way which leadeth into life, and few there be
that find it."- Matt. 7:14.
Man is easily deceived; in fact as a rule he welcomes
deceptions. Noise, loud promise, mystery, pretense, fear,
these are all pertaining to the broad way, which is the
deceiving road to broken hopes, lost faith and failure.
(43)
New Light From the Old Book
The narrow way of personal discipline, pursuit of wisdom
and practical self-endeavor, is the only way to lasting
peace and satisfaction.
God has planned that man shall travel on the nar-
row way, because it is the safe and profitable road for
every man who wishes to achieve and gain the rightful
high place intended for him. When the spirit of God
descends upon man, and he begins to walk in the statutes
of God and keeps his commandments, life becomes what
it was planned to be "a profitable experience".
55
.
rrBehold I sta1td at the door and knock, if a1t-y
man hear nty voice a1td open the door, I will come
i1t to him, and will sup with hi1n, a1td he with
me."-Rev. 3: 20.
God is not of man, He is in man. God is not man
because man is dimensional and subject to dissolution.
God is spirit and infinite, therefore not subject to change
or death, as is man in the plane of the flesh.
God in man calls everlastingly to him to awake and
learn that all supply is his, that all blessings are avail-
able to him, when he is receptive to receive them.
God does not force himself on unwilling man. Man
is ever required to have some part in the transaction. He
must at least open the door of his mentality and manifest
willingness that he may know God more deeply, and feel
Him more intensively.
God is always in man, but man rarely comprehends
God's infinite presence. Man''S ears are filled with the
noise of the world, therefore he is unable to hear the still,
small voice of God, as He calls out His precious invitation,
"Sup with me".
When man is aroused to the closeness of God and
demonstrates his willingness to become at oneness with
Him, then immediately God will do His part. God will
reveal Himself to man, and man will become aware of
God's closeness and God's presence and man will merge
into the divine consciousness of God, and thereafter live
a sublime God-like life.
(44)
New Light From the Old Book
56
uwherefo1·e do ye spend money for that which
is not bread, a11d you labor for that which satis-
fieth not. Harke11 diligently unto me and eat
Jle that which is good and let your soul delight
itself in fatness."-Is. 55:2.
Man should learn to discriminate, to know values,
to recognize the difference between the real and the
spurious. Man being a trilogy requires sustenance in all
three planes- body, mind and spirit.
Unless man knows "that which is good", his life is
more or less waste as the imitation is almost always more
alluring to the uninformed mind. The senses deceive man.
True understanding comes from that region which is
deeper than the heart and loft ier than the brain.
The glutton must forsake his sinning ways and eat
less food and better food before he can enjoy the good-
ness of health. The tyrant, or the man of uncontrolled
temper, must cease his transgressions while there is still
a chance left to return to God and seek forgiveness for
his erring ways. The wicked and unrighteous man, too,
must get back to God, and renounce his debased manner
of living and thinking, and determine to change for the
better.
Man should abhor ignorance and error, for these are
the ways of destruction. There can be no safety in
chance, there is no assurance in guessing. Man should
love truth and wisdom, because of their protective pro-
pensities. "They received not the love of the truth, that
they might be saved.'' Truth is all-conquering; false-
hood, as its name implies, is all-deceiving.
Man can live in the fatness and fullness of his body,
mind and spirit, when his 'Physical food is really vital
food, when his mental sustenance is related to joy of
heart and serenity of mind, when his spiritual fare is
faith and trust and love of God, sincerely desiring to
know and appreciate him increasingly more. The de-
light of life ever a~aits man's thriving from lesser to
greater avenues of expression.
(45)
New Light From the Old Book
57
urhe last enemy to be destroyed is death."-
1 Cor. 1 5 : 26.
Due to man's ignorance caused by the blindness and
false teachings of those in authority, man is filled with
fear and ills. The whole earth is in the throes of con-
stant suffering, and life for endless millions is a continued
source of physical and mental torment.
Here is where death, though an enemy, becomes a
friend in disguise. Death is a deliverance to these poor
sufferers whose minutes and hours merely represent an-
guish of spirit. Life is darkness and bitterness because
of the enslavement of sickness; life is light and sweet-
ness when health reigns supreme.
Life is the real, death is the unreal. The knowledge
and observance of God's laws here on earth makes living
a source of bliss and peace, and the desire to die is not
present. Therefore the last enemy, death, can only be
overcome and prevented through the understanding of
God which is available to every seeker of perpetual life.
Before man can desire a longer span of physical life,
he should first endeavor to find more meaning in life. The
act of living is not the chief essential relative to living.
The main factor in living is the quality, purpose and spec-
ial meaning of life to the individual.
58
ttyhere is a natural body and there is a spiritual
body."--Cor. 15:44.
The spirit of man requires substance on which to
express. Man cannot walk on air because it lacks strength
to bear his condensed weight. Man cannot lean a ladder
against a cloud and expect the clouds to support the
weight of the ladder. God's world is an orderly one, and
1t is man's business to set about to discover God"s inten-
tion towards him and his physical and spiritual planes,
so that man may live triumphantly.
The body of man is dependent for life on food,
water, air, sleep, motion, circulation and spirit. If there
is a weakness or inadequacy in any of these essentials,
health of body suffers. The flesh body of man must be
(46)
New Light From the Old Book
studied and examined so that its awesome grandeur and
beauty may be fully apprehended, and health and life
preserved for the glory of God.
The invisible spiritual body residing in man but dis-
tinct from the physical plane of man must, too, be apprec-
iated and understood. Man is not whole unless in his two
planes. Both the physical and the spiritual are designed
by God. God is the cause, man should learn to be the
worthy effect. Wise and happy is the man who keeps
his body fit and his soul alight so that God may live to
dwell in him and sustain, prosper and bless him exceed-
ingly.
59
rrAnd the ransomed of the Lord shall return and
come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy
upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and glad-
ness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away."
- Is. 35 : 10.
Man is born alone and he dies alone. He alone must
face the difficulties of life and brave one encounter after
another. Though we say "man is alone," yet he is never
alone or forsaken. God though invisible in his form is
ever present within and around man, a true friend that
sticketh closer than a brother.
The heart of man is glad when his body is free from
pain and his mind filled with the spirit of tranquillity.
"The ransomed of the Lord" are those who have forsaken
the way of ignorance and blindness and found the path
of light and truth. There is but one real foundation for
rejoicing - that is a personal acquaintance with truth.
There is but one road to the banishment of sighing and
sorrow - that is through the gateway of wisdom and
understanding.
Truth, wisdom, faith, assurance, the perfect under-
standing of God's laws, these are the steps man must
take to find an irrevocable ransom from the distress of
life. God intends man to live rejoicingly. Why should
man be satisfied to tarry in the bonds of anguish when
freedom is so close at hand?
(47)
New Light From the Old Book
60
rryhe Lord is on111-Y side; I will not fear what a11,y
ntan do unto 1ne."-Ps. 118:6.
The Lord is on the side of the man who tries to un-
derstand and obey His laws. When man spends his t ime
seeking and searching for truth, and having discovered
truth, proceeds to put it into practice, then at once the
r eaction to righteous living makes life eminently satis-
factory.
When God is on the side of a man, he does not have
to fear because God is mightier than all the hosts of the
earth. When man is not inclined toward truth and God,
he automatically moves under the law of discord, sick-
ness, accident and failure. God is not to blame for man's
decision; man condemns himself to punishment instead
of gaining the glorious reward and protection which
righteous living affords every man.
Even the self-inflicted punishment of sickness a nd
failure are good because, through suffering, man awak-
ens to th e fact that he is living unwisely, and as a con-
sequence, finds his way back to God, where forgiveness
and rich blessings await him. The foolish man persists
in his life of self-made suffering until his life is ended by
death. The thinking man awakens to his ignorance and
peril, and returns to the ways of truth and wisdom, and
thus wins the rewards of God - h ealth, peace, joy and
plenty.
61
rrLet the words of m y mou th and the meditation
of 1ny heart be acceptable in thy sight, 0 Lord,
m y strength and m y redeemer."-Ps. 19:14.
Both travail and happiness of spirit come as men de-
mand them. The demand is mental, silent, invisible, but
terribly potent. Man reaps the rewards of his thoughts
and actions. Without thought there could be no deed
- thought is the seed of action. Most assuredly man
r eaps the fruits of his thoughts and meditations.
It is self-evident that excellence of deed follows ex-
cellence of thought. So it is the depth of wisdom to ob-
serve that every thought is a living force for good or for
(48)
New Light From the Old Book
evil. Wisdom should be present to see that our thoughts
are so beautifully expressed, that they are always acce·pt-
able to God. The life harvest of today represents the
thought seeds we planted in the past. Care in choosing
thoughts in our mental world means the assurance of a
worthy life's harvest to be gathered in the future. Life
is thinking and doing, sowing and reaping, rejoicing and
sorrowing.
To cleanse and beautify the thoughts should be
man's daily aspiration. Thoughts determine the quality
of man's acts, and man is judged or condemned thereby.
"Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and
not by faith only." Man's worthy or unworthy acts of to-
day take form and meet him immutably tomorrow. Every
beautiful thought is an ascension and brings man closer
to God.
62
rrNow faith is the substance of things hoped for,
the evidence of thittgs not seen."-Heb. 11:1.
That which is perceived by the senses is described
as being objectified or manifest. When beyond the ken
of the senses it is designated as being unmanifest or invis-
ible. Faith is that which requires no substance as evi-
dence. Faith is subtle sense which transcends the mortal
senses of man. Faith is therefore of supreme value and
worth, and its presence can be profitably installed in the
life of every man. "And he said to the woman, thy faith
hath saved thee, go in peace."- Luke 7:50.
He who uses only the sight of his eyes is impressed
by what he sees, but the intuition of faith means clear
sightedness far beyond the range of human vision. When
man governs his life by the gauge of his finite, easily de-
ceived senses, his trust is misplaced. The sight of the
physical eye is never as keen or comprehending as the
eye of the soul or spirit. Even though man has perfect
physical eyes, they are almost valueless when truth and
faith are absent from his consciousness.
Truth, wisdom, faith, blessed trinity of achieving
possibilities for the purification, enlightenment and ad-
vancement of man. There is no strain in the interior or
exterior life of man when he is blessed with faith and
understanding. Rest in spirit always follows the use·of
(49)
New Light From the Old Book
God's laws. God is never apart from those who trust
him. "The eyes of the Lord are over the righteous and
His ears are open to their prayers, but the face of the
Lord is against them that do evil..,
63
ttin the world ye shall have tribulation, but be
of good cheer I have overcome the world."-
John 16:33.
World attachment usually spells sorrow and suffer-
ing. From world attachment arises world desire. From
world desire cometh unwholesome ambition and tribula-
tion of mind. Anger is of the world, delusion is of the
world, worry is of the world, sickness is of the world,
misery is of the world.
The mind of man, when disciplined in spiritual ways,
looks upward and finds peace of spirit. God is every-
where, and in God's laws we find all joy, health and sup-
ply. Earthly lust, hate, fear, danger, accident are over-
COf11e by the act of overcoming of fleshly desires.
If man wills to be free from misfortune and sickness
he must surround himself not with things of the earth,
but with the divine wisdom of the universe. All noise-
some, earthly odors drift away and are replaced with the
;heavenly fragrance of spiritual bliss when man emerges
from the discord of the world into the supreme harmony
of God.
Ever will the things of the earth bring vexation of
spirit and what profit is there in vexation ? Ever will
attributes of the spirit bring man solace and satisfaction.
Christ overcame the world of bibulation; clearly H~
points the way for every man to go and do likewise. We
are told, "Greater things can ye do".
64
ttTo him that overcometh I will give to eat of
the hidden man11-a."-Rev. 2:7.
Man becomes, rises, attains, achieves through oyer-
coming. The greatest liability of man is his inqiff«trenc~
to spiritual truths. When man aw~kens to the pos~Jb.ility
reposing in spiritl,lal understanding, PI.:~~ently he ~ill ' b~
(~0)
New Light From the Old Book
in possession of God's priceless food, manna or wisdom.
Man must overcome indolence. Man must arouse
every nerve of his body, and seek and search for the
larger life of spirit. There is no lasting power or profit
in life unless wisdom is the directing principle. Mighty
is the heritage of man through overcoming the weakness
of the flesh. "And he that overcometh and keepeth my
works unto the end, to him I will give power over the
nations."
How willing is God to grant good to every man! As
a rule how unwilling is man to comply with God's laws
and deserve the rich blessings of God! None can over-
come or hurt the man of God. With God on your side,
nothing is impossible. God is ever on the side of those
who obey His instructions and commandments, all of
which are entirely for man's benefit.
When we lack the will to overcome, we abandon
God, then who can help us in our hour of stress? When
man trusts God he becomes invincible and unbeatable.
Man is faithful to himself when he is faithful to God.
"For the Lord God is a sun and shield, the Lord will give
grace and glory, no good thing will He withhold from
them that walk uprightly."
65
rru is a1t honor /01" a 1na1t to cease fro11t strife,
but every fool will be nzeddling."-Prov. 20:3.
War with its aftermath of destruction, and depres-
sion is made by men who lack wisdom, or perhaps by
men for selfish gain. Hate and anger are expressed by
men of shallowness, not by men of depth or character.
Foolish men are constantly interfering and stirring up
strife. Wise men control their thoughts and acts and in-
cline toward peace and harmony. "He that is slow to
anger is better than the mighty and he that ruleth hi&
spirit than he that taketh a city."
God scatters those who delight in war and rebukes
every trouble maker. Man plunges into the lust of war
for profit or conquest but he who lives by the sword, the
sword killeth. When man finds wisdom, war will end-
not before. "Wisdom is better than the weapons of war."
·war maims, mars, wastes, crushes and kills. Wisdom re-
(51)
New Light From the Old Book
stores, lifts, blesses, rewards and heals. War is a calam-
ity as it forces men to hatred and harshness and it is God-
like to be useful and just.
When every man studies himself, and turns to God
for enlightenment, he will find the benediction of peace.
Then war and all the evils of hate will be blotted out for-
ever. When foolish men are denied the right to govern
others, wars will cease forever, and peace and brother-
hood will be established among all the nations of the
earth.
66
rraod-there is none else."-Deut. 4:39.
God fills every nook and cranny of space. He is
found in the inanimate as well as the living. In the core
of the earth, in the loftiest altitudes, we find God. God
is omnipotent, omnipresent, omniscient, friend, sustainer,
preserver, Father, Mother. God is in breath, thought, act
and word.
God is not only life, but He is the source of life. Not
only is He being, but the essence of being. Not only is
He spirit, but spirit of spirit. God is all-knowing, all-com-
prehending, all-seeing, all-just. God is infinite, there-
fore deathless. "I am the Lord, I change not."
Before time was, God was: ages pass, mountains
crumble, seas dry up, planets dissolve into dust, suns die,
but God persists. There is no beginning or end in God.
God is voiceless, yet his voice thunders. He is shapeless
yet He is perfect in body. God is not a man, yet He is
all men. "Know that the Lord He is God; there is none
else beside Him."
All life is rooted in God and life ultimately returns
to its source - God.
God is the essence of perfection. Every man who
walks in His light, too, tends to become perfect. In God
are hidden the treasures of the universe, the most per-
fect wisdom, the highest understanding. "All things were
made by Him: and without Him was not anything made."
God created the visible and the invisible, the handiwork
of God penetrates the heights, depths and all dimensions
of the universe.
God is the master designer, the divine artisan, the
perfect evolver. Boundless, measureless, infinite is His
(52)
New Light Prom the Old Book
power and strength. "He hath made the earth by His
power, He hath established the world by His wisdom and
hath stretched out the heavens by His discretion." All
came from God, the earth is His work, the laws of the
earth His thoughts.
What a privilege man has to co-operate with God.
Man may find the fountain of life and the light of truth
in God. Darkness exists outside of God, but light alone
emanates from God. "God is light and in Him is no dark-
ness at all." God's work and God's laws are 'Perfect. As
man inclines away from error, he too becomes perfect
even as God is perfect. Man can find liberty and per-
fection when he seeks to know and practice the precepts
of God.
There is no variableness in God. He honors and re-
wards every man who obeys His laws. "Every good gift
and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down
from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness,
neither shadow of turning." For greater life, greater
knowledge, greater breath, turn to God, man's supreme
existence, He that liveth in all things and liveth upon all
things- God. "Acquaint now thyself with Him and be
at peace; thereby good shall come into thee."
67
rrLikewise, the spirit also helpeth our infirmi-
ties."-Rom. 8:26.
The fruit of the spiritual life is joy, peace and
health. When we live away from spirit we torment our
bodies with self-made ills. It is the spirit that quicken-
eth, it is spirit that heals our grievous wounds. God is
spirit. When man is ill let him turn to his creator, God,
and he will find healing. In God, man discovers health
and a longer span of life. "For I will restore health unto
thee and I will heal thee of thy wounds, saith the Lord."
68
rrAll mine are thine and thine are mine."-John
17: 10.
God's promise to man is made manifest when man
qecomes at oneness with the meaning of divine law. God
(53)
New Light From the Old Book
wants men and women to be happy, healthy, wise and
opulent. Men who persist in living after the ways of the
flesh deny themselves myriads of potential gifts from
God, in spite of the fact that God offers his every good
gift to man.
Man hesitates to reform his ways, to change his hab-
its, to reverse his thoughts. As a consequence, man stands
in his own light and lives a dwarfed existence. God is
eager to permeate man·s being with earth's mightiest
fulness and richness, but somehow man holds aloof from
God and thus prevents himself from .possessing and en-
joying earth's fairest gifts.
Man must come into a sense of his indiscretion in liv-
ing apart from God. He must face about and wend his
way back to the source of all supply - God; God in man,
man in God. When this merging is made complete, life
becomes a rich and divine experience.
69
rrood is love."-1 John 4:16.
God is love and God is justice. God is not mawkish
love, He is love divine, the giving, bestowing kind,
asking no requitement save the fulfilment of His laws
governing the life of man. God asks no favors from man;
however He delights and glories in the improvement of
man, which constantly happens when man is sufficiently
wise to incline his ear to God's commands.
God being the foundation of wisdom, also the father
of every man, exists not to torment His children, but to
illumine them. When man is visited by pain, that dis-
tress was probably necessary for his education. Man
rarely learns by ease, so disease is sent not to kill, but to
instruct. When man seeth not the motive behind his
physical distress and concentrates on the pain, he dis-
plays unfitment and through his ignorance invites more
grievous torment or even death.
God deals lovingly but justly with all men. God's
ways are perfect. The more closely we study our per-
sonal life, the more we learn of God's love for man and
His mysterious plans and methods for helping man to
help himself. Man displays unusual intelligence in self-
help and self-unfoldment. It is the only plan whereby
(54)
New Light From the Old Book
-~----------
man can reach a perfect state of health, being and con-
sciousness.
70
rr1 will sing unto the Lord, because He hath
dealt bountifully with me."-Ps. 13:6.
God rewards those who serve Him. He opens the
understanding of man. He hears and answers prayers,
He creates health in our body and delivers us from suffer-
ing. The earth is overflowing with the bounty and bene-
ficence of God. If man so wills, his personal life too may
be brimming with health, peace and plenty.
Man's eyes are still closed to the glorious possibili-
ties of God. Everything that would tend to enrich, en-
noble and beautify man's life is open to the demand of
man when he dares to aspire to a God-like life. In the
world man finds anguish and darkness. In the observ-
ance of God's statutes man discovers enlightenment of
heart and understanding of mind. God's favor ever flows
to those who believe in His laws and endeavor to practice
them da:ily.
71
rrwith God all things are possible."- Matt.
19:26.
"All things," there is no such thing as limitation with
God! The fairest picture, the broadest vista, the high-
est objective, all are possible to attain and achieve when
God's laws are employed. "Blessed is the man that trust-
eth in the Lord and whose trust the Lord is. For he shall
be as a tree planted by the waters that s-preadeth out its
roots by the river, and shall not fear when heat cometh;
but its leaf shall be green and shall not be careful in the
year of drought, neitl:ler shall cease from yielding fruit."
Friends will often fail in the hour of need. Discour-
agement will persist in creeping into our mind. Loved
ones will pass away. Prized possessions will be lost to
us, but God is ever perfect, bright and shining, ready to
console, counsel or redeem us from our tribulations.
The goodness of God is spread all over the land. He
can close the gates of death, He can lift the fallen, He
(55)
New Light From the Old Book
can comfort the sorely distressed, He can protect the
harassed. "And the Lord helpeth them and rescueth
them; He rescueth them from the wicked and saveth
them because they have taken refuge in Him." Let us
cease trying and struggling. Let us get back to God with
our problems and complexes. He is our Father and He
loves to serve His bewildered sons and daughters. Then
indeed will we discover "With God all things are
possible."
72
rrwherefore be ye not foolish, but understand
what the will of the Lord is."-Eph. 5:17 R.V.
It is foolish to be unhappy, sick, ignorant or distress-
ed. It is the will of God that man should live abundantly.
Man lives in distress because he has never discovered
God's high intentions toward him. He has never found
the treasures that God has willed for him.
God does not visit vengeance or jealousy upon man.
God is intelligence and justice and where there is intelli-
gence and justice there can be no hatred or envy. Man
through lack of higher vision, lives in the plane of limita-
tion, uncomprehending that God has established a man-
sion in the sky for him.
When man ceases to live according to the dictates
of his finite, mortal will, and seeks to discover God's pur-
pose concerning him, then he will begin to live in a vaster
world of light and reward. Before man can know God,
he must study God. "And none of the wicked shall under-
stand; but the wise shall understand." The understand-
ing of God is man's greatest defense. "'A wise man is
strong. A man of knowledge increaseth strength." The
upward way opens to man as he is ready to receive God's
commandments and use them - we glorify God when we
keep His commandments.
73
ttPray without ceasing."-1 Thess. 5:17
When man demonstrates perfect health, his health
is an unceasing prayer. When man is filled with the spirit
of joy, his joy is an unceasing prayer. When man has
found perfect love, his love is an unceasing prayer. When
(56)
New Light From the Old Book
man has learned to think clearly, his thoughts are an un-
ceasing prayer.
God frowns on formality and prayer-obsequiousness.
With God beauty and love require no set time for an
audience, while creed and dogma wait without the gate
of heaven hoping for an audience.
Whenever man sweeps out dark thoughts, he offers
a prayer to God. When man discards every suggestion
that opposes God, he prays. When man has a vision of
the beautiful, when he forgives his enemy, he prays.
When man loves beauty, color, music and rhythm, that,
too, is a prayer beautiful.
The desire to live wisely, to eat in moderation, to
love the out-of-doors, to delight in justice, to express
faith in yourself and in your fellow man, these are the
sublime forms of prayer and wholly acceptable to God.
When prayers are unanswered, we should try to learn
the cause of the non-fulfilment. "Ye receive not because
ye ask amiss."
74
rr]udge ttot and ye shall not be judged, condemn
not atul ye shall not be condemned."-Luke
6:37.
God only, has the wisdom to judge rightly. Man's
mind is filled with prejudice and selfishness, therefore he
is in no wise capable of judging justly or wisely. Con-
sequently man should refrain from condemning or pass-
ing judgment on others. Man may profitably judge him-
self, examine his habits and supervise his decisions, but
he should call a halt when he feels inclined or justified in
speaking adversely against his neighbor.
Man is wise when he learns he is placed on earth
not to spend his time on the condemnation of others, but
on the enlargement of his own personal life. When man
spends his time looking for the minor faults in others, he
has no time left to search for the major flaws within him-
self. Man should be more of a "good example" than a
"pestering critic". Man is commanded, "Let none of you
imagine evil in your hearts against your neighbor".
That which we tend to concentrate upon multiplies.
That which we turn from begins to stultify. There is both
(57)
New Light From the Old Book
light and darkness in life; there is good and evil in every
man, and no man is perfect in all ways. Knowing this to
be true, is it not inconsistent to constantly search for the
imperfection in another and habitually dwell upon it?
Each time we meet that individual, owing to the fact we
have labeled him "imperfect", in our mentality we can
see only his weakness, and though he has much potential
light and goodness within him, we never discover it, be-
cause of our poor judgment and faulty attitude in the be-
ginning. .
Man should live not to please himself: rather should
he discipline himself in the ways of truth; then he will
find increased gain in living. We read, "But to do good
and to communicate, forget not, for with such sacrifices
God is well pleased." When man lives an interfering
life, he comes under the law of condemnation. When man
wisely lives to enlarge his life to include beauty, truth,
wisdom and God, he moves under the law of compensa-
tion, which means safety, liberty, peace and divine pro-
tection are his.
75
rrAnd he said unto the,m, go ye into all the world
and preach the good tidings to the whole crea-
tion."-Mark 16: 15.
When man comes into the possession of truth prin-
ciples, he should display them openly and freely tender
them to others so that many may find heaven here and
now, which is only possible through the renewing of the
mind.
Mankind is sceptical of innovation and those in
authority are jealous lest the new ideas interfere with
the old. But the "bearer of good tidings" must expect re-
buffs, calumny and rebuke; it is part of the price the
"light bearer" must pay as a disciple of truth.
Man has lived in darkness too long and now God's
presence is on the horizon of the world. He has come to
reveal himself to man, not as a tyrant, but as a father.
God stands for everything that is sane and commendable,
when man looks on God in the right light. God has not
come to destroy, but to cherish and save mankind.
When man is kind, sane, just and intelligent, he is
a preacher of "good tidings". When mail flashes a friend-
(58)
New Light From the Old Book
ly smile on his fellow man, he is performing an act of
divinity. When a man strives day after day to look his
best, to act his best, to live his best, he is a child of God.
In our home circle is the place to begin, to be a "bearer".
Then, as we practice being children of the light in our
home life, soon our influence will widen and broaden un-
til the message of "good tidings'' is carried to all creation.
76
rrR.elease and ye shall be released."-Luke
6:37 R.E.
Forgetfulness is a blessing when it is related to the
erasement of old wrongs and hurts. Man should learn
to discard the thoughts which perplex and annoy. God
has endowed man with a brain, and the highest use man
can make of his brain is to use it as an instrument of
blessing to himself. Man cannot expect freedom unless
he grants freedom to others. Domineering over others
is a form of tyranny and is not acceptable in the sight of
God.
Life should consist of holding on and casting out.
Holding on to that which is gainful and good, and dis-
carding all things which are evil and unprofitable. In
order to perceive and comprehend good, man must study
life most earnestly and learn how to live for the limitless
blessings which God freely offers to every man who is
sufficiently intelligent to recognize the possibilities of life
in God.
Man cannot expect forgiveness for his own short-
comings unless he is ready and willing to grant forgive-
ness to those who have offended or injured him. God
wipes the slate clean when man expresses his desire to
live better; surely man should imitate God's example.
"But if the wicked turn from all his sins that he hath
committed and keep all my statutes and do that which is
lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.
None of his transgressions that h e hath committed shall
be remembered against him."
77
rryhe righteous is delivered out of his trouble."
-Prov . 11 :8.
(59)
New Light From the Old Book
A man cannot be classified as being righteous unless
be obeys God's laws. God is God of the flesh and of the
spirit, the God of nature, the God of the cosmos. Every-
thing that is, is expressive of God. Man will remain
eternally unrighteous and condemned to suffer unless he
recognizes the divinity of all the basic fundamental laws
of life and living.
A glutton is not a righteous man, though he is often
known as a religious man. A lazy man is not righteous
because God is the essence of activity, and to be righteous
means to be in the image of God. The man with a lying
tongue is not righteous, nor is the man who is a mischief
maker.
To be freed from sickness, unhappiness, pain and
failure, man must be altogether righteous through the
strict observance of God's laws as exemplified in the pro-
cesses of body, mind and spirit. Man cannot live here
on earth unless he has a human organism; therefore he
should study the laws of his body and fulfill their require-
ments and thus became righteous of body as he is of mind
and spirit.
78
rryhe stone which the builders rejected, the
sante is become the head of the corner."-Matt.
21 :42.
Man still lives in partial darkness as to true values.
All great men in the beginning were doubted, reviled and
rejected by the multitudes. All through history, cases
are recorded where the mocking of yesterday has been
transformed into reverence today. The ordinary man is
swayed by outside suggestion and does as he is told. The
man of wisdom thinks for himself and early learns to
recognize principles of wisdom and worth.
In order to know values, it is necessary to develop a
sense of values. When men of limited understanding ac-
claim something of great worth, their laudation does not
make it so. Similarly, when men of mediocre understand-
ing condemn something as being of little worth, that does
not make it so. No man can judge rightly unless he is
versed in the laws of truth and understanding, and these
essentials should be sought before man can safely utter
any acclaim or disclaim.
(60)
New Light From the Old Book
A man may make a statement thinking his statement
is right. But man's opinion is not the chief factor at
stake. "Is the statement correct and true?" is the chief
question concerned. By the study of God's laws and the
practice thereof, every man can in time recognize truth
and shield himself from evil. There is no other protec-
tion from error - God is the only source. "His work is
perfect. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and
right is He." - Deut. 32 :4.
79
rryhe grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the
word of our God shall stand forever."-Isa.
40:8.
All that is visible is slowly changing into the invis-
ible. All that is finite and seeable must crumble and dis-
solve into nothingness. The invisible alone survives and
is unchanging. God's laws endure from age to age, and
wise is the man who searches to know them more fully.
Man, when he pursues the seen, is relating himself
to change. When man's quest is more of the unseen than
the visible, he demonstrates he has vision and intelligence
and is assuring himself the garnering of a worthy harvest
in his future life. Planets, suns and the earth may pass
away, but the word or laws of God will everlastingly
endure.
80
rropen thou mine eyes that I may behold won-
drous things out of thy law."-Ps. 119: 18.
Rarely does man live up to his possibilities. The
eyes of mankind are still dim and heavy in spite of the
fact that the opening process is but an enlargement of
the mind. All the goodness of God, all the richness of
His· limitless supply, are within sight and reach of all
mankind. However, if man's eyes or mind are closed to
the nearness of God's rich blessing, man denies himself
the advantages of their use and enjoyment.
To be willingly ignorant of the possibilities of life
ig· a grievous sin. Man persists in holding on to old lim-
itations so his eyes are still unopened to his heritage of
(61)
New Light From the Old Book
higher light, and he never beholds the wond!'!rs of God·s
la ws. Man has a rebirth when he seeks to open his eyes
to a loftier concept of life. "Old things are passed away;
behold, all things are become new."
Man's opening up process has to be gradual. Little
by little he will begin to observe the higher meaning of
human existence. As the dimness falls away from his
vision he will discover God's gl01ious intention toward
himself and too, he will comprehend that physical death
is not necessary to usher in heaven. Heaven is discovered
and enjoyed here and now by the self-enlargement of
man's spiritual, higher sight.
81
rrFor t hey were astonished at his doctrine, for
his word was with power."-Luke 4:32.
Man should not allow himself to remain in the clutch
of ignorance because ignorance advertises itself as being
darkness. Man should aim to speak in terms of truth, as
truth advertises itself as being light and power.
Truth is truth, whether it falls from the lips of a
child or a wise man. Every man can speak with power
when he is at oneness with the principles of God's laws.
Man, by earnestly seeking to become familiar with truth,
finds truth emanates from every word he utters. He has
quaffed at the fountain of truth. What he has taken in
later comes out and is recognized as "power".
Truth is not only power, but it is satisfaction and se-
curity as well. The man who speaks and walks in the
light of truth will find his word and ways will carry con-
viction and respect, even though he stands in the midst
of his enemies.
82
rryhat he might make thee know that man do~h
ttot live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceedeth out o.f the 1ftOu~h of the Lord doth.
man live."-Deut. 8:3.
When the fires of life in man burn low, ptJ.ysical food
cannot save his life. Often the healing word of spirit
will cause a sicK man to regain his health.
(62)
New Light Front the Old Book
In health man should not be wholly concerned about
what he should eat and drink. He should take time to
study the laws of his being. He should discipline him-
self to eat vital food in moderation.
He should also feed his being spiritual food. Faith
is the highest and most magnificent altitude of thought.
Fa ith is the master key to perfect recovery from disease.
The food we eat creates our body. The thoughts we think
determine the quality of our life and sometimes the grade
of our health. Food and faith are God's healing agents.
Let every man while still in health develop a perfect un-
derstanding of these principles and disease will be as far
removed as one pole is from another.
(63)
