{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__frazer___the_fear_of_the_dead____v3.pdf","mytitle":"The Fear Of The Dead","mylang":"de"}
THE
FEAR OF THE DEAD
IN PRIMITIVE RELIGION
BY
SIR JAMES GEORGE FRAZER
O.M., F.R.S., F.B.A.
FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
ASSOCIATE MEMBER OF THE JNSTITUT DE FRANCE
VOL. Ill
MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
ST. MARTIN’S STREET, LONDON
1936
COPYRIGHT
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, EDINBURGH
P R E F A C E
T h is volume concludes my study of the Fear of the
Dead in Primitive Religion. It forms a sequel to
the two volumes of my lectures delivered under the
William Wyse Foundation at Trinity College, Cam­
bridge. The subject is the same, and the treatment
is continuous. Throughout we are dealing with
some of the answers which primitive man has given
to the great enigma of death—of death in the widest
sense, as the inevitable end, not only of man, but
of every living thing. We may smile at some of
his answers as childish and absurd, but do we of
this generation read the riddle better than he ? May
it not be that posterity will smile at some of the
solutions ofthe problem to which oiir contemporaries,
with all the resources of modern science at their
disposal, cling as tenaciously as does primitive man
to his 'phantasmagoria of the dead ? The only
lesson we can safely draw from the survey of facts
here submitted to the reader is a lesson of humility
and hope: a lesson of humility, because it reminds us
VI PREFACE
how little we know on the subject, which, ofall others,
.concerns us most nearly ; a lesson of.hope, because
it suggests the possibility that others may hereafter
solve the problem which has baffled us.
J. G. FRAZER
13th February 1936
C O N T E N T S
Pr e f a c e ..............................................P. v
CH APTER I. Precautions against the Return of
Ghosts . . . . . . . P. i
The fear of the spirits of the dead has led primitive man to take many pre­
cautions to keep them at bay. One method commonly and widely
adopted is to destroy or desert the house in which the deceased lived
and died, and which his spirit will consequently be expected to seek
out. Examples from Australia, from the East Indies, from the
Straits, Burma, India and Assam, from Lappland, from Africa, and
from North, Central and South America.
Stinks are occasionally employed to repel ghosts, as among various
Indian tribes of North and South America.
Corpses may be buried in the bed of a stream to prevent the spirits
from returning: examples from different parts of Africa. Alaric
the Goth was thus buried, and the ashes of the prophet Daniel are
reported to have been similarly treated.
The ghost of a dead man may be pegged down into the earth.
Examples from India, Cochin-China, and Africa.
By burying the body in certain positions also some people imagine
they prevent the return of the spirit. Examples from South America,
India, and Siam. For the same purpose a corpse is very often carried
out of the house feet foremost, as among some natives of the East
Indies, of South America, and of Northern India, as well as among
the inhabitants of Germany, Denmark, and Italy.
, Sqjnetimes a corpse is blindfolded to blind the spirit. Examples
from Australia, Corea and Cambodia. Often a coin is placed on each
of the dead person’s eyes to blind him, a custom recorded for various
parts of the Indian Archipelago and Europe. The masks found
covering faces in the ancient royal graves of Mycenae may have had
a similar purpose. Such masks for corpses have been employed in
different parts of Asia and Europe.
vii
CONTENTS
viii
Occasionally all the openings of the head are blocked up, a custom
specially prevalent in the East Indies, but also reported for Africa
and a Turkish tribe in Russia.
CH APTER II. Deceiving the Ghost . . . P. 38
Besides attempting to repulse the spirits of the dead by force, primitive
man often tries to mislead them by guile. Thus, after a death, strict
silence is often enjoined upon the survivors in order to avoid the
attention of the spirit of the deceased. This custom is prevalent
throughout the Indian Archipelago, and is also practised in Australia,
in North America, and in various parts of Africa. Similarly it is
often forbidden to mention the name of a dead person for fear of
attracting his ghost. Examples from Tasmania, Australia, the East
Jndies, Siberia, Africa and America.
Mourning costumes have been adopted in the Nicobar Islands
explicitly to disguise the wearers from the recognition of ghosts, and
this may have been the original purpose of mourning costumes
generally. Examples from Africa, from ancient Greece and Rome,
from the East Indies and America.
| The custom of cutting the hair short in mourning is practised
jwidely. Examples from the East Indies, ancient Greece and Persia,
America and Asia. The opposite custom of letting the hair grow
is much rarer, but has been recorded in Africa, Europe and Asia.
The laceration that sometimes accompanies the cutting of the hair
appears to be intended as a sign of grief rather than as a disguise.
Deception of the spirits is sometimes attempted by the use of
effigies of living people. Examples from Tahiti, East Indies and
Africa.
Other methods of deceiving the ghost are adopted in the Solomon
Islands, in Fiji, in Australia, in New Guinea, in Borneo, in Siberia,
in the East Indies, in Burma, in Indo-China and China and in South
Africa.
The carrying-out of a dead body by a special opening is a common
device to deceive the ghost and frustrate his efforts to return, practised
in Siam, Annam, Indo-China, Burma, China, Siberia, the Indian
Archipelago, India, Baluchistan, Persia and in various parts of
Africa, America and Europe.
CH APTER III. Dangerous Ghosts . . . P*103
I. Ghosts of the Sl a i n ........................................P. 103
The ghosts of the slain are greatly feared by primitive man, and
special precautions are often taken to avoid or pacify them. Ex­
amples from Australia, New Zealand, the East Indies, Burma, India,
Africa, North and South America, and ancient Greece. In this
CONTENTS IX
connexion it may be suggested that the legend of Orestes, how he
recovered sanity by biting off one of his fingers after murdering his
mother, may Contain a reminiscence of a drastic mode of appeasing
the angry ghost of a murdered person.
II. Ghosts of Su ic id e s.................................................P. 142
Persons who have taken their own life are greatly feared after
death, and special precautions are often taken to guard against their
spirits. Examples from Africa, India, China, Russia, Indo-China,
ancient Greece and modem Europe.
III. Ghosts of Persons who have died a V iolent Death
OTHER THAN MURDER OR SUICIDE . . . P. l 6 l
All who have died violently are commonly dreaded after death by
primitive man. Thus in India various precautions are taken against
the spirits of those slain by tigers. Other examples from Burma, the
East Indies, Africa and North America.
IV. Ghosts of Women dying in Childbed . . P. 175
A special dread is widely entertained of the spirits of women dying
in childbed. This dread is particularly prevalent throughout India
and the Malay region to the east. It is also recorded in parts of
Africa and among the ancient Mexicans.
V. Ghosts of Dead Husbands or Wives . . P. 199
The ghosts of dead husbands and wives are commonly deemed very
dangerous to their surviving spouses, and special precautions are
often taken to guard the widow or widower. Examples from East
Indies, India, Kamtchatka, Africa, America and Australia.
VI. Ghosts of the U nmarried and Childless D ead P. 235
Adults who die unmarried or without issue are thought to have
missed the crowning blessing of this world, and to be ill at ease in
the next, so that their spirits are greatly feared as especially dangerous.
Various means are adopted of propitiating them. Commonly this
takes the form of a marriage of the dead with another dead person,
with a living person, or with some animate or inanimate object. Ex­
amples from Fiji, the Indian Archipelago, Africa, India, China and
Russia. The ancient Greek custom of placing a pitcher on the tomb
of all unmarried people may have originated in this way.
VII. Ghosts of the Unburied Dead . . . P. 260
Since the soul of a recently deceased person is supposed to be
■ •greatly concerned with the disposal of his mortal remains, the bodies
of people who die away from home, and therefore cannot be buried
in the usual way, occasion much anxiety to theirsurvivors. Commonly
their kinsmen attempt to pacify the spirits of such people by holding
X CONTENTS
the funeral rites over an effigy of the missing body, or over some
relic of his person. Examples from New Zealand, Samoa, East
Indies, Annam, Tonkin, Burma, India, China, Japan, Asiatic Russia.
Africa, America and Europe.
VIII. Ghosts of A n i m a l s ........................................P. 283
Primitive hunters and fishermen stand in awe of the animals and
fish which they kill, fearing lest their angry ghosts should seek] to
take vengeance on their killers or prevent other animals from being
killed in like manner. Consequently rites are often performed to
propitiate or mislead the ghost of a killed animal. Examples from
Africa, India, Indo-China and the Eskimos of the Arctic north.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST THE RETURN OF GHOSTS
In a former part of this work1 I endeavoured to show
that a belief in the survival of the human spirit after
death has been general, if not universal, among
those races of lower culture whom we call savages or
barbarians, and whom we may legitimately term
primitive in a relative sense, by comparison with
civilized nations. We saw that in the opinion of
primitive man the spirits of the dead continue to
exert a great influence on the life of the survivors
both for good and evil. It is thought on the one
hand, for example, that they can cause the rain to
fall and the fruits of the earth to grow, that they can
bless women with offspring, that they can give
oracles, and aid their living kinsfolk in war. These
are substantial benefits, but on the other hand the
spirits of the dead are supposed to be touchy and
prone to* take offence, and to visit offenders with
their displeasure in the shape of many grievous
calamities, including sickness and death. Naturally,
1 The Fear of the Dead in Primitive Religion, vol. i. (London, 1933),
pp. 1 sqq,
VO L. I l l
CHAPTER I
I B
2 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
therefore, primitive man looks on the spirits of the
dead with very mixed feelings. The thought of
them is associated in his mind with emotions of
hope and fear, of love and hate, of attraction and
repulsion. It is not possible for us to measure
exactly the force and extent of these diverse and
conflicting emotions and to gauge the relative pro­
portion in which they stand to each other ; but it
is safe to say that if the fear of the dead has not been
the predominant motive in the attitude of primitive
man to their spirits it has at least been a very potent
agent in moulding the early history of religion. As
such, it deserves our serious attention, and forms
the subject of this work.
The fear of the spirits of the dead has led primi­
tive man to adopt many precautions for the pur­
pose of keeping these formidable beings at bay and
removing them to what he deems a safe distance
from him. Thus, for example, he often attempts to
drive them away by main force, or to dismiss them
peaceably under the safe-conduct of an animal or
bird, who is supposed to guide the poor wanderers
to that bourne from which no traveller returns ; but
in case the spirits should nevertheless attempt to
force their way back to the land of the living he
sometimes erects barriers of fire or water or more
solid materials which he hopes may arrest*their
progress, and so will leave him in peace. Another
mode of preventing the return of the spirits is to
render their old home as unattractive as possible
in the hope that they will thus be prevented from
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 3
attempting to regain it. With this view it has often
been customary to destroy the property of a dead
man in order to spare him the temptation ofreturning
to take possession of it from its living proprietor.
This destruction of the property of the dead I have
illustrated at some length in a previous volume,1
and I now take up the subject at the point where
I broke off.
Some primitive peoples, not content with destroy­
ing the property of a dead man, demolish the
dwelling in which the death took place, and flee
from the spot in order to avoid a possible encounter
with the ghost who may be prowling about his
desolate home. Other peoples, without destroying
the house or hut, content themselves with retiring
to a distance from the scene of death, with the same
object of avoiding all possible contact with the
spirit of the deceased.
Thus, to take examples: in the Mara tribe of
Northern Australia, when any person dies, the body
is eaten by the relatives, and the bones deposited
on a platform in a tree. “ As soon as any one
dies, the camps are immediately shifted, because the
spirit, of whom they are frightened, haunts its old
camping ground.” 2 Among the aborigines of the
Lower Murray River, when a death took place, it
was 'eustbmary to pull down the wurley or rude
temporary hut of the deceased, because no one would
inhabit the spot where a death had taken place.3
1 The Fear of the Dead in Primi- of the Northern Territory of Aus-
tive Religion, vol. ii. pp. 119 sqq. tralia (London, 1914), p. 254.
2 Baldwin Spencer, Native Tribes 3 R. Brough Smyth, The Ab~
4 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
An English traveller in New Zealand has described
his visit to a Maori village which had been totally
deserted on the death of the chief. “ Here, though
everything was in perfect preservation, not a living
soul was to be seen : the village, with its neat
houses, built of raupo, and its court-yards and pro­
vision boxes, was entirely deserted. From the
moment the chief was laid beneath the upright
canoe, on which was inscribed his name and rank,
the whole village became strictly tapu or sacred ;
and not a native, on pain of death, was permitted
to trespass near the spot: the houses were all
fastened up, and on most of the doors were inscrip­
tions, denoting that the property of such an one
remained there. An utter silence pervaded the
place. After ascertaining that no natives were in
the vicinity of the forbidden spot, I landed and trod
the sacred ground ; and my footsteps were probably
the first, since the desertion of the village, that had
echoed along its palisaded passages.” 1 Similarly in
the Marshall Islands, when a chief dies, his hut is
abandoned and allowed to fall into decay, for no
one will dare to enter it.4
Among some of the natives in the eastern part
of British New Guinea, “ after a death has taken
place in a house it is usual for the house to be"
deserted and allowed to fall to pieces ; but sometimes
it is so nearly new that it is a pity to have to build
origines of Victoria (Melbourne and Zealand(London, 1847),!. pp. 278 sq,
London, 1878), i. p. xxx.
1 G. F. Angas, Savage Life 2 A. Erdland, Die Marshall-
and Scenes in Australia and New Insulaner (Munster, 1914), p. 325.
another, the doorway is closed up and a new door­
way made in another wall and the house still used.
It seems that the spirit of the dead one will haunt
the place, but it can be deceived by this little artifice.
As people lie awake at night they will sometimes
say they have heard the spirit scratching along the
wall trying to find its way into the house.” 1 Among
the Kai of Northern New Guinea, the house in which
a death has taken place is abandoned because the
spirit of the deceased is supposed to haunt it.2 In
Misol, a small island to the north-west of New
Guinea, when a death has taken place in a house
the house is abandoned, and a new one is built
elsewhere. The body, wrapped in cloths, is de­
posited on a scaffold built for it in the forest. From
time to time the relations come to inspect the corpse
until decomposition is complete. The skeleton is
then brought to the place, generally a cave, where
the bones of all the dead inhabitants of the village
are collected.8 In the East Indian island of Buru,
when a death has taken place in a house, the sur­
vivors desert it, and go in search of a dwelling
elsewhere.4
In the Andaman Islands a dead body is either
buried in a grave or deposited on a platform in a
tree. When this has been done the men return to the
camp, "where the women have been busy packing
1 H. Newton, In Far New Guinea Misol ” , in Archivfur Anthropologie.
(London, 1914), p. 227. N.F. xii. (1913).
2R. Neuhauss, Deutsch Neu 4 J. G. F. Riedel, De Sluik— en
Guinea (Berlin, 1911), p. 83. Kroesharige Rassen tusschen Selebes
3 J. Wanner, “ Ethnologische en Papua (VGravenhage, 1886), p.
Notizen iiber die Inseln Timor und 12.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 5
6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
up all belongings. Plumes of shredded "palm-leaf
,stem (koro) are put up at the entrance to the camp
to show chance visitors that there has been a death.
The camp is then deserted, the natives moving
to some other camping ground until the period of
mourning is over, when they may, if they wish,
return to the deserted village. No one goes near the
grave again until the period of mourning is over.” 1
Among the Sakai of Perak, a primitive dwarf
race of the Malay Peninsula, when a death took
place the house was invariably burned down and
the settlement deserted, even at the risk of the loss
of standing crops.2 Among the Mantra of Malacca,
after a death in the clearing, nothing more was
planted there, and when the crop or plants on the
ground had been gathered it was abandoned.3
Among the. Benuas of Malacca the house where a
person has died is generally deserted and burnt.4
The Kachins of Burma, who have attained to a
higher level of culture than these wild tribes of the
Malay Peninsula, do not destroy a house in which a
death has taken place, but merely make a pretence
of doing so and of building a new house in another
place.5 It is thus with the growth of civilization,
superstition yields to economic consideration.
1 A. R. Brown, The Andaman 3 Skeat and Blagden, op. cit. ii.
Islanders (Cambridge, 1922), p. p. il l .
108. 4 T. J. Newbold, British Settle-
2 A. Hale, “ On the Sakais ” , in ments in Malacca (London, 1839),
the Journal of the Royal Anthropo- ii. p. 410.
logical Institute, xv. (1886) p. 291; 5 C. P. Gilhodes, “ Mort et
W. W. Skeat and C. O. Blagden, funerailles chez les Katchins (Bir-
Pagan Races of the Malay Peninsula manie) ” , in Anthropos, xii-xiii. p.
(London, 1906), ii. p. 96. 431.
The Karens of Burma desert a house in which a
death has taken place lest the soul (Kelah) of some
person remaining in it, especially of one of the
children, should be induced to accompany the
departed, whose soul (Kelah) may thereby the more
readily return to a wonted spot and call for a friend’s
soul. Of this many cases are believed to have
occurred.1
Some of the Ainus, a primitive tribe of Japan, say
that “ in years long gone by the ancients used to
burn down the hut in which the oldest woman of a
family had died. This curious custom was followed,
so some of them say, because it was feared that the
spirit of the woman would return to the hut after
death, and, out of envy, malice, or hatred, bewitch
her offspring and sons- and daughters-in-law, to­
gether with their whole families, and bring upon
them various noxious diseases and many sad calami­
ties. Not only would she render them unprosper-
ous, but she would cause them to be unsuccessful
in the hunt, kill all the fresh and salt-water fish,
send the people great distress, and render them
childless. She would curse the labour of their
hands, both in the house, the garden, and the forest;
she would blight all their crops, stop the fountains
and springs of drinking water, make life a weary
burden,, and eventually slay all the people and
their children. So vicious and ill-disposed are the
departed spirits of old women supposed to be, and
1 Rev. E. B. Cross, “ On the American Oriental Society>
iv. (1854)
Karens” , in the Journal of the p.310.
i PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 7
8 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
so much power for evil are they said to possess. For
this reason, therefore, the ancients used to burn
down the hut in which an old woman had lived and
died; the principal idea being that the soul, when
it returned from the grave to exercise its diabolical
spells, would be unable to find its former residence
and the objects of its hatred and fiendish intentions.
The soul having been thus cheated of its prey,
and its malignant designs frustrated, is supposed to
wander about for a time in a towering rage, search­
ing for its former domicile; but of course to no
purpose. Eventually the spirit returns, defeated
and dejected, to the grave whence it came, and woe
betide the person bold or unlucky enough to venture
near the spot.
The custom, however, is now being discontinued ;
but customs die hard, and part of this one is still
seen to survive. Thus, whenever a woman is getting
to be very old and likely to die soon, her children
build her a tiny hut somewhere near her old home.
When finished, she is sent there to reside, where she
is provided with food till she dies. But when she is
dead and buried this hut is burned instead of her
old house.” 1
Among the Dhanwar, a primitive hill tribe of
the Central Provinces of India, when an elder man
dies his family usually abandon their hut, .-because
they believe that his spirit haunts it, and would cause
the death of anybody who dared to live there.2
1 J. Batchelor, The Ainus and 2 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and
their Folk-Lore (London, 1901), Castes of the Central Provinces of
pp. 130 sq. India (London, 1916), ii. 498.
Among the Korwas, another tribe of the Central
Provinces of India, when a man dies his hut is
broken down, and the family does not inhabit it
again.1 Among the Kurmis, yet another tribe of
the Central Provinces of India, “ there is a belief
that the spirit of the deceased hovers round familiar
scenes and places, and on this account, whenever
possible, a house in which any one has died is de­
stroyed or deserted.” 2 Among the Savaras, an im­
portant hill-tribe of Southern India, on certain days
every house in which a death has taken place during
the last two years is burned down. After this the
ghost of the deceased (Kulba) is supposed to give
no more trouble, and does not come to reside in the
new hut that is built on the site of the burnt one.3
In Assam, “ if a man dies inside a house, no Hindoo
can eat in it afterwards, or reside in it, as it has
become impure; it is generally pulled down and
burned, and a new house erected on the same spot.
All Assamese when dying are, therefore, invariably
brought out to die in the open air on the bare ground,
that the building may be preserved ; and also to
ensure the happier liberation from the body.” 4 Far
from India the Lapps in the north of Europe used
to strew with stones the place in the hut where a
person had died, and then to remove their dwelling
to another site, doubtless to avoid the spirit of the
1 Russell, op. cit. iii. 574. of Southern India (Madras, 1909),
2 Russell, op. cit. iv. 80 (refer- vi. 328.
ring to Gordon, Indian Folk-Tales, 4 J. Butler, Travels and Adven-
p. 54). ture in the Province of Assam (Lon-
3 E. Thurston, Castes and Tribes don, 1855), pp. 258 sq.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 9
10 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
deceased, which they had apparently sought to pin
down by a weight of stones piled on the place where
he had died.1
In Africa the custom of deserting a place in
which a death has occurred is very wide-spread.
Thus, among the Banyankole, a pastoral people of
Uganda, mourning lasts for three or four months.
When it ends the survivors remove to some new
site, and build another kraal. The old place falls
into decay and is soon overgrown and lost to sight.1
2
Sometimes when the heir had had time to build a
new kraal, the old kraal was not only deserted but
broken down and left in its ruins to decay.3 Among
the Basoga, another people of Uganda, when a death
has taken place the hut of the deceased is deserted,
and never repaired. No one may live in it, though
the chiefs house may be built near the site.4 Simi­
larly among the Bateso, another people of Uganda,
the house in which a death has taken place is deserted
and suffered to fall into decay, and no one attempts
to repair it.5 Among the Nilotic tribes of Kavirondo
the hut in which a death has taken place is used for
a month. The neighbours then assemble and drink
beer, and break down the hut.6
Among the negroes of the Slave Coast the dead
1 C. Leemius, de Lapponibus Fin-
marchiae eorumque lingua, vita,
et religione pristina commentatio
(Copenhagen, 1767), pp. 499 sq*
2 J. Roscoe, The Northern Bantu
(Cambridge, 1915), p. 129.
3 J. Roscoe, The Banyankole
(Cambridge, 1923), p. 149.
4 Roscoe, The Northern Bantu,
p* 227* * #
*
5 Roscoe, The Northern Bantu,
p. 267.
6 C. W. HobJey, Eastern ¥ganda
(London, 1902). p. 27; Sir H.
Johnston, The Uganda Protectorate,
Second Edition (London, 1904), ii.
793-
are burie'd in the house. The room in which the
dead is buried is no longer used ; but often the roof
is removed and the house abandoned. They burn
the clothing of the deceased, and destroy the objects
which he used in his life.1
Among the Ewe-speaking people of Togoland,
nine days after a burial the house of the deceased is
pulled down, and the remains of it are taken outside
of the house and burned.2 But if the deceased has
died a violent death away from home, whether killed
in war, or drowned in a river, or fallen from a tree in
the forest, nine days after the burial they go to the
place where the misfortune overtook him, dig up
some of the earth from the spot, put it in two little
pots, tie them up with blue stuff, and place the pots
on the grave. When they have done this they break
down the house of the deceased and burn it. Among
these same people when a man has been killed by
the bite of a snake a curious ceremonial is observed.
His friends shoot the body of the deceased and bring
it to a public place in the village, where they bathe
it, ornament it, and smear it with white earth. Then
they pour palm-wine into his mouth, and continue
to fire their muskets for a long time. Nine or eleven
days after they break down the house of the deceased.
But before doing so they take a small pot with a lid
and* caryy it to the spot where the man was bitten
by the snake. There they dig up some earth, put
it in’the pot, and close the pot. The oldest woman
1 P. Bouche, La Cdte des Esclaves 2 J. Spieth, Die Ewe-Stamme
et le Dahomey (Paris, 1885), p. 214. (Berlin, 1906), p* 288.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS n
12 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
of the family then carries the pot on her head, and
‘followed by the whole population of the village,
drumming and firing shots, she goes to the grave of
the deceased, on which she places the pot upside
down. The firing continues for a long time, and
the companions of the deceased then break down his
house. Afterwards they entertain the inhabitants of
that quarter of the town, and then they play till
nightfall.1 The writer who describes this quaint
rite does not explain i t ; but we may conjecture that
the soul of the deceased is supposed to be taken up
in the earth dug up at the spot where he was bitten
by the snake, and that having been thus recovered,
the soul is safely bottled up in the pot, and finally
restored to the deceased at his grave.4 Among the
Bimbians in the valley of the Niger, on the death of
a chief or great man, “ more or less of the property
is left in the house, which is abandoned, and allowed
after an interval to go to decay.” 1
*
3 Among the
Yaunde in the Cameroons, when an unexplained
death has taken place in a hamlet, the inhabitants
abandon it, and shift their abode to a distance, often
to a considerable distance. We are told that the
motive is to avoid the evil magic which has proved
fatal to one of their number ; but we may conjecture
that the true reason is to avoid the ghost of the
deceased.4 Among the peoples in the district of
1 J. Spieth, op. cit. 156-158. ii. p. 297.
8 J. Spieth, op. cit. p. 760. 4 G. Zenker, “ Yaunde ” , in
3 W. Allen and T. R, H. Thomson, Mitteilungen von Forschungsreis-
Narrative of the Expedition to the enden und Gelehrten aus den
River Niger in 1841 (London, 1848), Deutschen Schutzgebieien, iii. p. 69.
Ogowe, when a chief or other man of importance
dies, the custom is to abandon the site where the*
death took place, and to remove the settlement to
another place in the forest. A traveller in West
Africa tells us that he often met with the remains of
such abandoned settlements in the forest. The old
houses are either left to fall into decay or are burned
down.1 Among the Wangata of the Belgian Congo
when a death occurs they pull down the house in
which the deceased died, fell the banana-trees which
overshadowed it, and allow the grass to grow on
the site.2 Among the Baholoholo of the Belgian
Congo when a death has taken place all the huts
of the deceased are burned.3 The writer who reports
the custom supposes that this is done as a measure of
hygiene ; but more probably the motive is a fear of
the ghost. An old Portuguese writer, Dos Santos,
speaking of the Kafirs of South-East Africa, tells us
that after a burial they burn the thatched house of
the deceased with all it contains, so that no one may
possess anything that the dead person made use of
in his lifetime, or even touch it, and if it so happens
that some one touches anything belonging to the
deceased he does not enter his house until he has
washed in the river. The ashes of the burnt house
with any pieces of wood not quite consumed they
put on -the top of the grave.4 With regard to the
Barotse, a Bantu tribe of South Africa, we are told
•
1 O. Lenz, Skizzen aus Westafrika 3 R. Schmitz, Les Baholoholo
(Berlin, 1878), p. 208. (Brussels, 1912), p. 223,
2 Lieut. Engels, Les Wangata 4 Dos Santos, in Theal, Records oj
(Brussels, 1912), p. 53. South-eastern Africa (1901), vii. 307.
i PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 13
14 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
that death inspires them with a mortal terror, and
that among them consequently the hut of the
deceased person is almost always abandoned.1 Liv­
ingstone was told that among the Makonde, another
South African tribe, when any one died in a village
the whole population deserted it, saying that it was
a bad spot.2 Of the Bantu tribes in South Africa
generally the attitude to the spirits of the dead has
been described as follows by their historian, Dr.
McCall Theal. “ There was an idea that something
connected with death attached to the personal effects
of the deceased, on which account whatever had
belonged to him that could not be placed in the
grave, his clothing, mats, head-rest, etc., was de­
stroyed by fire. The hut in which he had lived was
also burned, and no other was allowed to be built
on the spot. If he had been the chief, the whole
kraal was removed to another site. Those who
touched the corpse or any of the dead man’s effects
were obliged to go through certain ceremonies, and
then to bathe in running water before associating
again with their companions. Except in cases of
persons of rank, however, very few deaths occurred
within kraals. As soon as it was seen that any one’s
end was near, the invalid was carried to a distance
and left to die alone, in order to avert the danger of
the presence of the dreaded something that could
not be explained.” 3
1 L. Decle, Three Years in Savage 3 Dr. G. McCall Theal, Ethno-
Africa (London, 1898), p. 76. grapky of South Africa (London,
2 D. Livingstone, Last Journals 1919), p. 76.
(London, 1874), 28.
With regard to the Bushmen of South Africa we
are told by two French missionaries in the first half
of nineteenth century that when a man died his hut
was broken down, piled over his grave, and burned.1
At the other extremity of Africa the nomadic
Tuaregs of the north, when a death has taken place,
always shift their camp, and avoid everything that
might recall the memory of the deceased.2 Among
some tribes at the foot of the Atlas Mountains, when
a cadi dies, the new cadi never inhabits the castle
or house of his predecessor, unless he happens to
be a member of the same family. He always builds
a new house for himself. A traveller in these
regions has described how he saw many such castles
falling into ruins after the death of their last
occupants.3
Similar customs have been observed for similar
reasons by the aborigines in many parts of America,
both north and south. Thus the Eskimos think
that a hut in which a death has taken place is pol­
luted and dangerous, and they will make no use of
anything that is in it at the moment when the dying
person breathed his last. Hence when a sick person
is obviously dying they hasten to remove him to
a small temporary hut which after the death can
be abandoned without serious loss.* Among the
1 T. Arbousset and F. Daumas, 3 E. Doutte, En Tribu (Paris,
Relation (Tun voyage <Texploration 1914), p. 247.
(Paris,^842), p. 503. 4 C. F. Hall, Life with the
Esquimaux (London, 1864), pp. 201,
2 H. Duveyrier, Exploration du 249. Cf. Lecorre, in Annales de
Sahara ; Les Touareg du Nord VAssociation de la Propagation de la
(Paris, 1864). Foi, vol. xlvii. (1875) P- I21-
i PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 15
Eskimos of Alaska if there are many deaths about
the same time, or an epidemic occurs, everything
belonging to the dead is destroyed. The house in
which a death occurs is always deserted, and usually
destroyed. In order to avoid this, they commonly
take a sick person out of the house, and put him in
a tent to die.1 Among the Thompson Indians of
British Columbia, “ the lodge in which an adult
person died was burned. The winter house, after a
death had taken place in it, was purified with water
in which tobacco and juniper had been soaked, and
fresh fir-boughs were spread on the floor each
morning. Pieces of tobacco and juniper were also
placed in various parts of the house. But if two or
more deaths occurred in it at the same time, or in
immediate succession, then the house was invari­
ably burned. Most of the household utensils of a
deceased person were also burned, as well as the
bed on which he had died. The place where the
deceased had lain when dying was not occupied for
some time. Then an adult male slept on it four
nights in succession. After that it was considered
safe for any one to lie there.” 2 From this account
we may see that while these Indians invariably
burned a summer hut in which a single death had
occurred they spared in a similar case the more solid
and therefore more valuable winter house,. not
burning it down until several deaths in it had con-
1 W .Dall,Alaska anditsResources of British Columbia (Memoirs of the
(London, 1870), p, 146. American Museum of Natural His­
tory, vol. ii. The Jesup North
2 J Teit, The Thompson Indians Pacific Expedition), 1900, p. 331.
16 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 17
vinced them of the great danger of allowing it to
stand. Among these Indians economic considera­
tions have partially tempered the fear of the spirits
of the dead. Yet among them that fear is very
serious ; for we are told that “ nobody could with
impunity take possession of the bow and arrows,
long leggings, and moccasins of a dead man. If
any one appropriated the first of these, the dead
man would come back for them, and in taking them
away would also take the soul of the man possessing
them, thereby causing his speedy death. If either
of the other two were appropriated, the one who took
them would be visited by a sickness which would
cause his feet and legs to swell enormously. It is
not safe, except for a person who has a strong
guardian spirit, to smoke out of the pipe of a person
who has recently died. The tobacco will burn up
in it faster than usual. This is a sign that the
deceased wishes the pipe.” 1 Among the Cree
Indians of Canada, when a death has taken place
in a tent, the whole camp is shifted for several miles.2
Among the Apache-Yumas, an Indian tribe of the
United States, if a death occurs in a hut, the hut
with everything in it is burnt. “ As soon as a death
is announced, all the huts in the immediate neigh­
bourhood are deserted, and often burned. . . .
They dislike to speak of the dead, but refer to him
indirectly, and usually in a whisper.” 3 Among
1 J. Teit, op. cit. p. 331. 3 W. F. Corbusier, “ The Apache-
2 C. Leden, “ Unter den Indianem Yumas and Apache-Mojavas ” , in
Canadas ” , in Zeitschrift filr Etk~ The American Antiquary, vol. vii.
nologie, xliv. (1912), p. 816. p. 338.
VO L. I l l C
the Navahos, another Indian tribe of the United
States, when a death takes place the rafters of the
house are pulled down over the remains and the
place is usually set on fire. After that nothing
would induce a Navaho to touch a piece of the wood,
or even approach the immediate vicinity of the
place ; even years afterwards such places are recog­
nised and avoided, because they are believed to be
haunted by the spirits of the dead. These shades or
spirits of the dead are not necessarily malevolent,
but they are regarded as inclined to resent any
intrusion or the taking of any liberty with them or
their belongings.1 The Tamarahumare Indians of
Mexico always destroy a house in which a death has
taken place, and they break the baskets and other
household utensils which it contained.1
2 The Yuca-
tecs, a Maya people of Mexico, used always to for­
sake a house in which a death had taken place,
because they greatly feared the spirit of the dead.3
The Anabali and other tribes of the Orinoco in
South America have so great a fear of death that
as soon as they have buried one of their number
near where he lived they immediately abandon
their crops, and build a new village at a distance of
twelve or fifteen leagues, and when they are ques­
tioned for their reason for thus abandoning their
crops they answer that since death has entered
1 C.Mindeleff/4Navaho Houses” , (London, 1903), i. p. 384.
in the Seventeenth Annual Report of
the Bureau of American Ethnology, 3 H. H. Bancroft, Native Races of
1895-1896 (1898), p. 475. the Pacific States of North America
2 C. Lumholz, Unknown Mexico (London, 1875-1876), ii. 800.
18 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 19
among them they no longer feel secure in that
neighbourhood.1 Among the Jibaros, a wild Indian
tribe of Ecuador, when a death took place the dead
used to be deposited in the house, which was then
abandoned. The dead man was given his spear in
his hand, and pots of food were placed around him ;
then the door was shut and strongly fastened, and
the relations departed.2 Among the Guarauno
Indians, a tribe in the delta of the Orinoco, when a
death has taken place the body is placed in the
hollowed-out trunk of a tree or in a canoe, wrapped
in leaves, and is then left in the house, which is
deserted. When several persons die in the village
at short intervals, the village is deserted, because, as
they assert, “ an evil spirit (gebu) has passed by,
cursing it.” 3 Here again we may conjecture that the
real evil spirits whom they dread are the ghosts of
the departed.
Among the Jaguas, an Indian tribe in the upper
valley of the Amazon, when a death has taken place
the survivors burn the hut of the deceased and build
a new one.4 In a tribe of Peruvian Indians, whom
the German traveller von Tschudi visited, the dead
were buried in the huts which they inhabited in life.
The relations broke the household utensils of the
deceased, deserted the house, and built for them­
selves a *new one in a distant place. But they
1 P. J. Gumilla, Histoire de 3 J. Chaffanjon, UOrenoque et le
POrinoqeM (Avignon, 1758), i. 325. Caura (Paris, 1889), P- *3*
4 G. Osculati, Explorations delle
2 Dr. Rivet,“ Les Indiens Jibaros” , Regioni equatoriali lungo il Napo ed
in VAnthropologies xviii. (1907) p. il flume delle Amazzoni (Milan,
608. 1850), p. 209.
20 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD C
H
.
buried the weapons and agricultural instruments of
their dead kinsman with his body in the grave, be­
cause they thought that he would need them in the
spirit land.1 Among the Conibos, an Indian tribe
visited by the French traveller Castelnau in the
interior of South America, when a death had taken
place and the body of the deceased had been
buried, the relatives used to break all the house­
hold vessels of the departed and then set fire to
his house. When the hut was burned down they
spread a thick layer of ashes over the spot, in which
they expected to find traces of the wandering soul
of the deceased.2 The Tucanos, an Indian tribe
in the valley of the Uaupes, a northern tributary of
the Amazon, always bury their dead in the huts
which they inhabited in life. Then the family
immediately desert the hut and go and build
another, leaving the old one to decay. In a few
years the site of the old house has disappeared, and
is overgrown once more by the forest.3
Among the Yuracares, an Indian tribe in the
interior of South America, visited by the French
traveller D’Orbigny, when a death has occurred,
and the relatives have buried the deceased, they
abandon his hut and his fields.4 The Calchaquis,
an Indian tribe of Brazil to the north of Paraguay,
always burned the hut in which a death <had token
1 J. J. von Tschudi, Peru— VAmerique du Sud (Paris, 1850-
Reiseskizzen aus den Jahren 1838- 1851), ii. 385.
1842 (St. Gallen, 1846), i. 235. 3 H. A. Coudreau, La Fra?ice
equinoxiale (Paris, 1887), ii. 172.
2 F. de Castelnau, Expedition 4 A . D ’Orbigny, VHomme A meri-
dans les parties centrales de cain (Paris, 1839), i. 359.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 21
place, and" they buried the deceased with his eyes
open, that he might see to find his way to the other
world.1 The Lengua Indians of Paraguay were
wont to burn down the hut in which a death had
occurred, and then to destroy and vacate the village,
till the eminent English missionary, Mr. Grubb,
exacted from them a promise not to follow this
ruinous practice. They thought that the souls of
the dead returned to the ruined village, to warm
themselves at the fires in the chilly morning air, and
that if they found the fires extinct they used to
throw the ashes about in a rage.2 Mr. Grubb's
evidence on this point is confirmed by the testimony
of another English missionary, Mr. L. E. Guppy,
who spent many years with the English Mission to
the Paraguayan Chaco.3 Among the Coroados
Indians of Brazil when an adult dies they bury
him in his hut, and abandon it for another dwelling
at a distance, for they fear to be haunted by the
spirit of the deceased if they ever visited the place
of death.4 The Tacunas, another Indian tribe of
Brazil, bury their dead in pots in the huts which
they inhabited. Then they set fire to the huts and
burn them with all their contents, unless the chil­
dren of the deceased care to appropriate their
father’s weapons, which in that case are spared from
the flames.5
1 R. Southey, History of Brazil ner in Paraguay ” , in Globus, lxxvii.
(Second*Edition, 1822), i. 395. (1900) p. 220.
2 W. B. Grubb, An Unknown 4 J. B. von Spixund C. F. Ph. von
People in an Unknown Land (Lon- Martius, Reise in Brasilien (Munich,
don, 1911), pp. 124, 165, 169. 1823-1831), i. 382.
3 T. Koch, “ Die Lenguas-India- 5 Ibid. ii. 1187.
Another mode of avoiding all contact with the
dangerous spirits of the dead is to repel them by-
stinks, for apparently the spirits are credited with a
delicate sense of smell which leads them to shun
persons and places infected with foul smells. Thus
the Algonquin Indians of Canada used to burn
stinking substances in order to repel the hovering
spirits of the dead, and for the same purpose they
sometimes put stinking stuffs on their own heads in
order to guard themselves against the approach of
the dreaded ghosts. This curious custom was ob­
served and recorded by Jesuit missionaries in the
seventeenth century,1 and it has persisted down at
least to the middle of the nineteenth century among
the Ojebway Indians, one of whom has described
his observations and experiences for us. After
mentioning various modes of repelling the danger­
ous ghosts of the dead, he goes on, “ Lest this should
not prove effectual, they will also frequently take
a deer’s tail and, after burning or singeing off all
the hair, will rub the necks or faces of the children
before they lie down to sleep, thinking that the
offensive smell will be another preventive to the
spirit’s entrance. I well remember when I used to be
daubed over with this disagreeable fumigation, and
had great faith in it all. Thinking that the soul
lingers about the body a long time before it takes its
final departure, they use these means to hasten it
away.” 2
1Relation des Jesuites dans la 2 P. Jones, History of the Ojebway
Nouvelle-France en 1639 (Quebec, Indians (London, N.D.), pp. 99
1858), p. 44-
22 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD. ch.
The Hidatsa Indians of the United States believe
that the ghost of a deceased person lingers near his
dwelling for four nights after his death. During
this time “ those who disliked or feared him and do
not wish a visit from his shade, scorch with red-
hot coals a pair of moccasins, which they leave at
the door of the lodge. The smell of the burning
leather, they claim, keeps the ghost out; but the
true friends of the dead man take no such pre­
cautions.” 1 Of the Pampa del Sacramento Indians
of South America it is recorded that when a person
is dying and at his last gasp, “ the women fall upon
him, some close his eyes by force, others his mouth,
and they throw upon him whatever comes to hand,
and literally kill him while he is dying. Meanwhile
others run to put out the candle, and dissipate the
smoke, lest the soul not knowing how to get out
should be entangled in the roof, and lest it should
come back again to the same dwelling they collect
all sorts of filth round about it, that the stink may
drive it away.” 2
A forcible way of preventing the spirits of the
dead from returning to plague the survivors is to
divert the water of a stream, bury the corpses in the
dry bed of the river, and then allow the water to
resume its natural course. The double barrier of
earth and water may then be regarded as sufficient
to prevent the ghosts from escaping to return and
molest living folk. This mode of burial has been
1 Washington Matthews, Etkno- 2 R. Southey, History of Brazil,
logy and Philology of the Hidatsa i. Supplementary Notes, p. xxiv.
Indians (Washington, 1877).
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 23
24 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
adopted in various parts of Africa. It has been re­
ported for the dwarfs of West Africa by Mgr. Le
Roy, who was personally acquainted with these
primitive folk. He says that among the A-K6a,
when a death has taken place, the elders assemble at
midnight to decide on the place of burial, while the
women and children are sent away from the camp.
When a decision has been reached the elders go a
long way into the forest till they come to the stream
which has been chosen for the burial. There they
divert the current of the stream and dig a deep round
hole in its bed, taking care to surround the edges of
the hole with little posts to prevent the sand or
earth from tumbling in. Then they return to the
camp to fetch the corpse. They find it wrapped in
rough mats or fig-tree bark. Afterwards at mid­
night they convey the body silently and secretly to
its destined grave in the bed of the stream. There
they place it upright, with its face turned to the sky
and set a large stone over the head with a ridge of
clay to prevent the water from penetrating. Then
one of the elders pronounces the last farewell to the
departed spirit, bidding it to go away to the happy
land. After that they allow the stream to resume its
course and to flow over the grave of their kinsman.1
A similar custom is reported by Du Chaillu for
the Obongo, a tribe of West Africa. “ The modes of
burial of these savages, as related to me by my
Ashango companions, are curious. The most com-
1 Mgr. Le Roy, “ Les Pygmees ” , in Les Missions Catholiques, vol.
xxix. (1897) pp. 238 sq.
mon habit is to place the corpse in the interior of a
hollow tree in the forest, filling up the hole with
branches and leaves mixed with earth; but some­
times they make a hole in the bed of a running
stream, diverting the current for the purpose, and
then, after the grave is covered in, turning back the
rivulet to its former course.” 1
In the Watumbe and Wabemba tribes of Tangan­
yika it is customary to bury great chiefs in the beds
of rivers, of which the water has been temporarily
diverted to permit of this mode of sepulture. Most
of the great chiefs choose their place of burial during
their lifetime. At the chosen spot when the water
of the river has been diverted they dig the grave in
the dry bed. Two of the wives of the deceased
chief are then lowered into the grave, and placed in
a sitting posture with their legs crossed and firmly
tied. The skeleton of the dead chief is deposited
in their arms, resting on their knees, and with it is
put a vessel of food. They occupy the bottom of
the cavity. Near them on each side are lowered
two young men, one holding the chiefs pipe and the
other his fire tongs. The opening is next covered
with a mat. Next they throw into the grave a
number of slaves in proportion to the dignity of the
deceased chief, first killing or stunning them by
blows of a club upon their heads. Then the grave
is filled up and the earth stamped down. After­
wards’the other slaves of the chief are forced to walk
over the grave, and each receives the blow of a club
1 P. B. Du Chaillu, A Journey to Ashango Land (London, 1867), p. 321.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 25
26 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
on his neck. If he does not succumb under the
blow he is free ; but if he succumbs it is because the
chief desires his company, so his body is left to lie
upon the tomb. After that the water of the river is
allowed to resume its course, and to flow over the
remains of the dead chief and his victims. When
that has been done every one runs upstream and
bathes in the river to purify himself; but the last
to arrive is not allowed to enter the river. He is
deemed impure and may not enter the village for a
month. After a month he purifies himself in the
river and may go home.1
In his journey across Africa, Commander
Cameron visited the country of the Kirua, and
learned from them the grandiose fashion in which
they used to bury their dead kings. He says, “ The
first proceeding is to divert the course of a stream,
and in its bed to dig an enormous pit, the bottom of
which is then covered with living women. At one
end a woman is placed on her hands and knees, and
upon her back the dead chief, covered with his beads
and other treasures, is seated, being supported on
either side by one of his wives, while his second wife
sits at his feet.
“ The earth is then shovelled in on them, and all
the women are buried alive, with the exception of
the second wife. To her custom is more merciful
than to her companions, and grants her the privilege -
of being killed before the huge grave is filled m.
1 C. Delhaise, Notes ethno- du Tanganyika, Second Edition
grapkiques sur quelques peuplades (Brussels, 1905)? PP* 21-22.
“ This being completed, a number of male
slaves—sometimes forty or fifty—are slaughtered
and their blood poured over the grave ; after which
the river is allowed to resume its course.
“ Stories were rife that no fewer than a hundred
women were buried alive with Bambarre, Kasongo's
father ; but let us hope that this may be an exaggera­
tion.” 1
Among the Grebos, a tribe of Liberia, persons
who have filled the office of high priest (Bodia) are
usually buried on an island off Cape Palmas if they
have died a natural death ; but if they have died
through drinking sassy-wood they must be buried
beneath a running stream of water.2 The drinking
of sassy-wood is one form of the poison ordeal, which
is very common in Africa as the supreme and in­
fallible test in a charge of sorcery. If the accused
vomits the poison he is regarded as innocent; if
he fails to vomit it he is guilty and, should the
poison not prove fatal on the spot, he is regularly
executed as a convicted sorcerer.3 Thus we see
that a Grebo high priest who dies by drinking an
infusion of sassy-wood must always be regarded by
the natives as a convicted sorcerer, and his ghost
will therefore inevitably be deemed exceedingly
dangerous. That, therefore, must be the reason for
burying his body, not with his fellow high priests
on the island, but under the bed of a running stream,
1 V. L. Cameron, Across Africa 3 J. G. Frazer, Folk-Lore in the
(New Edition, 1885), pp. 365-366. Old Testament (London, 1918), voL
2 Sir H. Johnston, Liberia (Lon- iii. pp. 307-401,
don, 1906), vol. ii. p. 1076.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 27
28 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
in the hope that the double barrier of earth and water
will prevent his malignant spirit from molesting
living folk by his sorcery as he had done in his life­
time by his black art. In antiquity the Gothic
leader Alaric was similarly buried in the bed of a
river, which was then allowed to flow over his grave.1
The object of this burial in his case is not stated. It
may have been to prevent his too powerful spirit
from roaming at large to the danger of living folk,
or it may have been to guard the grave from desecra­
tion by the king’s enemies.
Curiously enough, the ashes of the prophet Daniel
are reported by an Arab geographer to have been
subjected to a similar treatment by order of the
khalif Omar ben Khattab. Having found in the
latest of his conquests the traditional site of the grave
of Daniel, and being informed that the natives
invoked the name of the prophet for the purpose of
obtaining rain, the pious khalif took measures to stop
this idolatrous rite for the future. By his order they
stopped the course of a river, dug a grave in its dry
bed, and there deposited the remains of the prophet
in order that for the future no man might know where
the ashes of the prophet lay, and so might no longer
employ his name in incantations for rain.2
A much simpler and less troublesome mode of
preventing the return of an unwelcome ghtosOis to
peg his remains down into the earth. This method
is adopted by the Oraons of Orissa for all ghosts
1 Jordanes, Getica, c. xxx, § 158. Meynard, Dictionnaire geograph-
ique, historique, et UiUraire de la
2 Modjem el Bouldan, in C. B. de Perse (Paris, 1861), p. 327,
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 29
except tho'se of their dead ancestors. They imagine
that the wooden pegs prevent the ghosts of the dead
from rising through the earth to molest them.1 In
Cochin China the troublesome ghost of a stranger
can be confined to his grave by knocking a nail or
other piece of iron into the earth of the grave at the
point where his head reposes.1
2 Among the Wa-
wanga in the Baringo district of East Africa when
a sick man in his delirium calls out the name of a
dead relative the friends of the sick man imagine
that his sickness is caused by the ghost of the
deceased. Accordingly, to give a quietus to the
ghost they sometimes drive a stake into the head of
the grave and pour boiling water down after it ;
or as an alternative they engage a poor old man to
undertake the dangerous task ofdigging up the corpse,
after which the bones are burned over a nest of red
ants, and the ashes swept up and thrown into a river.3
In order to prevent the return of the spirits of the
dead some peoples bury the bodies in certain posi­
tions which they imagine will produce the desired
effect. Among the Chiriguano Indians of the Rio
Pilcomayo in South America when a man has been
killed by a jaguar they bury him head downwards
in the earth to prevent him from turning into a
jaguar after death, and in that form committing
ravages upon the people.4 When the Ibibio of
1 S. C. Roy, Oraon Religion and
Customs-(Ranchi, 1928), p. 50*
2 P. Giran, Magie et Religion
Annamites (Paris, 1912), pp. 132 sq.
3 Hon. K. R. Dundas, “ Notes on
the Tribes inhabiting the Baringo
District, East Africa Protectorate ” ,
in Journal of the Royal Anthropo­
logicalInstitute, xl. (1910) pp. 54 sq,
4 E. Nordenskidld, Indianerleben
(Leipzig, 1912), p, 218.
30 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Southern Nigeria wish to prevent the reincarnation
of persons whom they regard as undesirable they
bury the bodies in the grave with their faces down­
wards, apparently imagining that their spirits will
thus be unable to find their way back to earth. On
the contrary, young people are usually buried lying
on their side, in an attitude of sleep. “ Grown men,
on the other hand, are buried lying flat on their
backs, ' so that they may be able to see straight
before them and soon find their way back to earth’.”1
To prevent the ghost from walking some of the
menial tribes of Northern India bury the dead face
downwards in the grave.2 We have already seen
that this mode of burial is adopted for the Mehtar,
a caste of sweepers in the Punjab.3 In Siam the
corpse is very often placed in the coffin face down­
wards in order that the spirit of the dead may not
be able to find its way back.4
For the same purpose a corpse is very often carried
out of the house feet foremost. Apparently the
notion is that in this posture the eyes of the corpse
are turned away from the house and that therefore
the ghost will not be able to see his way back to the
dwelling. Thus for example in Mabuiag, one of the
Torres Straits Islands, a corpse was always carried
out of the camp feet foremost, for otherwise it was
believed the spirit of the dead would return to haunt
1 P. A. Talbot, Life in Southern
Nigeria (London, 1923), p. 144.
2 W. Crooke, Natives of Northern
India (London, 1907), p. 216.
3 J. G. Frazer, Fear of the Dead
(London, 1934), ii. p. 108.
4 E. Young, The Kingdom of the
Yellow Robe (London, 1907), p.
346.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 31
and torment the survivors.1 The Kiwai Papuans
of British New Guinea, on the other hand, carry
their dead out head foremost, thinking that other­
wise their ghosts will return to the village and make
people sick.2 Thus the practice of the Kiwai differs
from that oftheir neighbours, the natives of Mabuiag,
but their intention is the same, namely, to prevent
the return of dangerous ghosts. The Pehuenches,
a nomadic tribe of Indians in Central Chile, always
carry the dead out of a tent feet foremost, for they
think that otherwise the wandering ghost might
return to its old abode.3 In Northern India the
corpse of an orthodox Hindu is always carried out
of the house feet foremost in order that the ghost may
not find its way back to the dwelling.4 Similarly in
many parts of Germany people are very careful to
carry out their dead feet foremost, believing that
" otherwise their ghosts would return to the house.5
In Denmark corpses are always carried out of the
house feet foremost, because it is believed that if
they were carried out head foremost their ghosts
would see their way back to the house and return to
haunt it.6 In Italy, also, it is the general practice
to carry a corpse out of the house feet foremost.7
1 A. C. Haddon, in Reports of zig, 1830-1836), i. 392.
the Cambridge Anthropological E x- * W. Crooke, Natives of Northern
pedition to TorresStraits(Ca,mhndge, India, p. 217.
1904), v©l. v. p 248. Cf. Haddon, in 5 A, Wuttke, Der deutsche Volks-
Internationales Archiv fu r Etkno- aberglaube (Berlin, 1869), § 736.
# graphic, vol. vi. (1893) p. 152. 6 Dr.H.F.Feilberg,“ TheCorpse-
2 J. Landtman, The Kiwai Pa- Door: A Danish Survival” ,in Folk-
puans of British New Guinea (Lon- Lore, xxiii. (1907) p. 369.
don, 1927), p. 257. 7 A. de Gubernatis, Storia Com-
3 E. Poeppig, Reise in Chile, Peru, parata degli Usi Punebri in Italia,
undaufdem Amazonenstrome (Leip- Second Edition (Milan, 1878), p. 52.
32 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Another way of preventing the spirit bf the dead
from seeing his way back is to blindfold him by
bandages or otherwise. Some of the Australian
aborigines in the neighbourhood of Lake Alexan­
d ria place bandages round the eyes of their dead,
which they fasten behind.1 The Bana of the Came-
roons tie up the eyes of a corpse and fasten the hands
and feet before they carry the body out of the house.1
2
In Corea people tie blinkers, or rather blinders, on
the eyes of a corpse. These are made of black silk,
and are fastened with strings at the back of the head.3
In Cambodia pieces of gold leaf are placed on the
eyes, the mouth, and the nose of the corpse, but are
removed when the body has been brought to the
funeral pyre.4 The Warangi and Wambugwe tribes
of East Africa, when a death has occurred, kill a
goat, extract its fat, and rub it on the eyes of the
corpse in order that the ghost of the deceased may
not see new-born children and injure them by his
evil looks.5 In the Nicobar Islands they do not
indeed blindfold the dead, but “ one near of kin
gently closes the eyes of the corpse in order to give
the appearance of sleep, for not only is the glazed
fixed look of death held in fear, but the further
benefit is gained of darkening the vision of the
departed spirit—believed to be still hovering near—
1 E. J. Eyre, Journals of E x - 4 J. Moura, Le Royaume de
peditions of Discovery into Central Cambodge (Paris, 1883), i. 360.
Australia (London, 1845), ii. 345.
2 G. von Hagen, “ Die Bana ” , in 5 A. Baumann, Durch Massai-
Baessler-Archiv, ii. (1912) p. 108. land zur Nilquelle (Berlin, 1894), p.
3 J . Ross, History of Corea, p.325. 187.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 33
and thereby preventing it from acting malevolently
towards the living.” 1
A common mode of blindfolding a corpse is to
place a coin on each of the dead person’s eyes. This
is done by the Dyaks of Borneo immediately after
death, for the avowed purpose of closing the eyes of
the ghost, and so preventing him from seeing and
injuring the surviving kinsfolk on earth.2 Among
the Galelareese of Halmahera, a large island to the
west of New Guinea, if the eyes of a dead person
are wide open, they say that he is looking round
for a companion, in order to draw him away with
him to the spirit land. Hence they are always care­
ful to weight the eyelids of a corpse, generally with
a rijks-dollar, in order to keep them shut.3 But if
the deceased is suspected of being a were-wolf it is
necessary to strew lime on his eyes and to cover his
head with a pan ; for then, they say, his eyes are
dim and he cannot see to come and visit the sur­
vivors with sickness or death.4 A similar custom
has been practised for similar reasons in various
parts of Europe. For example in the north-east of
Scotland, if the eyes of a corpse did not close, or if
they opened a little after being closed, an old penny
or halfpenny piece was laid on each eye to keep it
1 E. H. Man, “ Notes on the Archiv fiir Ethnologie, ii. (1889) p.
Nicobarese ” , in The Indian Anti- 178.
query, xxviii. (1899) p. 253; id. 3 M. J. van Baarda, “ Fabelen,
Man, The Nicobar Islands and their verhalen en Overleveringen der
People (Guildford, N.D.), p. 130. Galelareezen ” , in Bijdragen tot de
2 F. Grabowsky, “ Der Tod, das Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde van
Begrabnis, das Tiwah oder Todten- Nederlandsch-Indie, xlv. (1895) p.
fest und Ideen iiber das Jenseits bei 538.
den Dajaken” , in Internationales 4 Ibid, p, 541.
VO L. I ll D
34 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
closed.1 A like practice seems to have been observed
in some parts of England, as we learn from the words
put by Dickens in the mouth of Mrs. Gamp : “When
Gamp was summonsed to his long home, and I see
him a-lying in Guy’s Hospital with a penny piece
on each eye, and his wooden leg under his left arm,
I thought I should have fainted away. But I bore
up.” 1
2 The custom of placing coins on the eyes of
the dead is recorded also for Russia, Serbia, and
Bulgaria.3 Modern Jews put potsherds on the eyes of
a corpse.4
5 The notion that if the eyes of the dead
be not closed his ghost will return to fetch away
another of the household still exists in Bohemia,
Germany, and England.8
On the citadel of Mycenae the royal graves of the
ancient kings were discovered by Dr. Schliemann in
his memorable excavations of the site.6
* In them he
found seven golden masks, five of them covering the
faces of men, and two the faces of children. The
1 Rev. W. Gregor, Notes on the
Folk-lore of the North-East of
Scotland (London, 1881), p. 207,
2 Chas. Dickens, Martin Chuzzle-
wit, ch. xix.
8 W. R. S. Ralston, Songs of the
Russian People, Second Edition
(London, 1872), p. 318; F. S.
Krauss, Volksglaube und religioser
Brauch der Siidslaven (Munster,
1890), p. 140.
* J. C. G. Bodenschatz, Kirkliche
Verfassung der heutigen Juden
(Erlangen, 1748), iv. p. 174.
5 J. V. Grohmann, Aberglauben
und Gebrduche aus Bohmen und
Mahren (Leipzig, 1864), p. 188 ; G.
Lammert, Volksmedezin und mede-
zinischer Aberglaube aus Bayern
(Wurzburg, 1869), p. 106; A.
Wuttke, Der deutscke Volksaber­
glaube, § 725; T. F. T.Dyer, English
Folk-Lore (London, 1884), p. 230;
A. Schleicher, Volksthumliches aus
Sonnenberg (Weimar, 1858), p. 52 ;
C. L. Rochholz, Deutscker Glaube
und Brauch (Berlin, 1867), i. 176.
Cf. Witzschel, Kleine Beitrage zur
deutscher Mythologie, ii. 256; E.
Veckenstedt, Wendische Sagen •
Marchen, und abergldubische Ge­
brduche (Graz, 1880), p. 449.
6 J. G. Frazer, Pausanias's D e­
scription of Greece (London, 1898),
iii. 107.
I PRECAUTIONS AGAINST RETURN OF GHOSTS 35
masks were clearly portraits of the dead, and the
intention with which they were so placed can only
be conjectured. In one of the children’s masks
holes were cut out for the eyes ; but there were no
such holes in the men’s masks. This perhaps sug­
gests an intention of blinding the eyes of dead men,
while allowing a dead child to retain its eyesight.
The custom of covering the faces of the dead with
masks appears to have prevailed widely in the world,
and is still practised in some places. Thus golden
masks are regularly placed on the faces of dead kings
of Siam and Cambodia;1 and among the Shans of
Indo-China the face of a dead chief is invariably
covered with a mask of gold or silver.2 In ancient
Mexico masks made of gold or turquoise mosaic or
painted wood were placed on the faces of dead kings.3
Among the Ibibio of Southern Nigeria in olden days
the faces of chiefs were regularly covered by wooden
masks, conventionalized enough, but carved with a
certain dignity. In modem times the art of carving
these funeral masks has much degenerated. The
object of placing them on the faces of dead chiefs
is not mentioned by our authority.4 The Aleutian
Islanders used to put masks on the faces of their
dead, and as they wore masks at certain dances
as a protection against a dangerous spirit who was
supposed to descend into a wooden idol, it seems
► 1 Mgr. Pallegoix, Description du
royaume Thai ou Siam (Paris,
1854), i. 247 ; J, Moura, Le Royaume
du Cambodge (Paris, 1883), i. 349.
3 A. S. Colquhoun, Among the
Shans, p. 279.
8 F. S. Clavigero, History of
Mexico, translated by Cullen (Lon­
don, 1807), p, 324; Bancroft, Native
Races of the Pacific States, ii. 606.
* P. A. Talbot, Life in Southern
Nigeria (London, 1923), p. 147.
possible that their mortuary masks were intended to
guard their dead against some spiritual danger.1
The masks placed upon the faces of dead kings may
perhaps have had a similar protective intention. In
ancient Egypt every mummy had its artificial face ;
and masks made of gold, silver, bronze and terra­
cotta found in Mesopotamia, Phoenicia, the Crimea,
Italy, the valley of the Danube, Gaul and Britain,
appear to testify to the extent to which a similar
custom prevailed both in Western Asia and Europe.2
Some people, not content with covering the eyes of
the dead, block up all the other openings of his head,
his ears and mouth, that he may not be able to see,
hear or speak. The custom seems to be specially
prevalent in the East Indies. Among the people
who practise it are the Malays, and the Batak and
Achinese of Sumatra.3 Such practices seem to
testify to a great fear of the spirits of the dead.
In the Bari tribe of the Nilotic Sudan the rain-maker
is a very important personage, and if he dies a natural
death his corpse is subjected to a special treatment
for the purpose of keeping his precious spirit within
his body and so under the control of his son, who
succeeds him in the office of rain-maker. To effect
this purpose all the orifices in the dead man’s body
are plugged up to prevent the escape of the soul.
1W. H. Dali, Alaska and its Cf. J. Abercromby, “ Funeral Masks
Resources, p* 389. in Europe ” , in Folklore, vii. (1896) ^
2 O. Benndorf, Antike Gesichts- pp. 351-366.
helme und Sepulcralmasken (Wien, 8 Albert Kruijt, s.v. “ Indonesia
1878) ; R. Andree, Ethnographische ans ” in Encyclopaedia of Religion
Parallelen und Vergleiche, Neue and Ethics (Edinburgh, 1914), vol.
Folge (Leipzig, 1889), pp. 120-134. vii. p. 241.
36 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
In the words of Mr. Whitehead, " When the rain­
maker is dead, he is plugged, his ears are plugged,
his nose is plugged, his eye is plugged, his mouth is
plugged, he is plugged, his fingers are plugged.
And then he is buried. It is done thus so that . . .
the spirits may not go out, so that the son may
manage the father so that he obeys (him), so that
the spirits obey the son.” 1
Among the Chuwash, a Turkish tribe on the
Volga in Russia, it is the custom to stop up the nose,
ears, and mouth of a corpse with silk, in order that
on his arrival in the spirit land the deceased may be
able to say that he has seen and heard nothing of
what is going on on earth in the land of the living.
The writer who records this custom does not say
that the eyes of the dead are stopped up, but that
they are so seems to be implied by the reason which
he gives for the practice.2
1 C. G. and B. Z. Seligman, Pagan 2 H. Vamb&ry, Das Tiirkenvolk
Tribes of the Nilotic Sudan (London, (Leipzig, 1885), p. 462.
1932), p. 292.
I P R E C A U T IO N S A G A IN S T R E T U R N O F G H O S T S 37
CHAPTER II
DECEIVING THE GHOST
T h u s far we have seen that primitive man has
resorted to many contrivances for the purpose of
banishing the dreaded spirits of the dead to a safe
distance and keeping them there ; but often it appears
that all his contrivances are vain. The spirits of the
dead break the bounds which he has attempted to
impose upon them and they return to their old haunts
to plague and torment the living. But even when
they do so our primitive man is by no means at the
end of his resources. Trusting to that intellectual
weakness which he appears to impute to the spirits
of the dead, he fancies that he can outwit them and
escape their attention even when they are hovering
about him in the air. This he thinks he can do, in
the first place, by remaining strictly silent after a
death, in the hope of thus avoiding the attention of
the ghost.
The custom of observing strict silence after a
death for the purpose of eluding the attention of the
ghost is particularly prevalent among the peoples of
the Indian Archipelago, or Indonesia, as the islands
38
CH. II DECEIVING THE GHOST 39
are now commonly called. On this subject we may
quote the testimony of the Dutch missionary, Dr.
Albert C. Kruijt, our highest living authority on
the customs and religion of Indonesia. “ The In­
donesians assume that, when a person has died, his
soul is angry at renouncing life on earth. After­
wards it gets used to its new condition, but at first
it is in a mood dangerous for the survivors. There­
fore great care is recommended for the first few days
after a death ; this fear has given rise to the insti­
tution of mourning customs. During the first days
after a death the inhabitants of a village must keep
perfectly quiet. No noise must be made, dancing
or singing is forbidden, music must not be heard,
rice must not be pounded, nor coconuts thrown
down from the trees, nor shots fired ; in fact, they
go so far as to forbid fishing, sailing on the water,
and carrying goods in the usual way. The inten­
tion is that no sound should meet the ear of the soul
to indicate the way to its home; people try to
conceal themselves from it. Such injunctions are
found among all Indonesian peoples.” 1
A remarkable instance of the silence imposed'
upon mourners for the sake of eluding the attention
of the ghost is furnished by the practice of some
Australian widows, who are debarred for a certain
time,-often for a very long time, from speaking after
the deaths of their husbands. In the Warramunga
tribe of Central Australia the period of silence
1 A. Kruijt, s.v. “ Indonesians” , in Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics
(Edinburgh, 1914), vol. vii. p. 241.
40 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
imposed on widows extends from one to two years,
and curiously enough it is not confined to widows.
His mother, his sisters, his daughters, his mother-in-
law or mothers-in-law, must all equally be dumb and
for the same protracted period. More than that, not
only his real wife, real mother, real sisters, and real
mothers-in-law are subjected to this rule of silence,
but a great many more women whom the natives, on
the classificatory principle, reckon in these relation­
ships, though we should not do so, are similarly
bound over to hold their tongues, it may be for a
year, or it may be for two years. As a consequence
it is no uncommon thing in a Warramunga camp to
find the majority of women prohibited from speak­
ing. Even when the period of mourning is over,
some women prefer to remain silent and to use only
the gesture language, in the practice of which they
become remarkably proficient. Not seldom, when
a party of women are in camp, there will be almost
perfect silence, and yet a brisk conversation is all the
while being conducted among them on their fingers,
or rather with their hands and arms, for many of the
signs are made by putting the hands or elbows in
varying positions. At Tennant’s Creek some years
ago there was an old woman who had not opened
her mouth, except to eat or drink, for twenty-five
years, and who has probably since gone down into
the grave without uttering another syllable. A
similar ban of silence is imposed on widows for a
shorter or longer period among other Australian
tribes, such as the Unmatjera, the Kaitish, the
Arunta, and the Dieri.1 The motive for this silence
imposed upon native Australian widows is not
mentioned by our authorities, but we may safely
suppose that it is a fear of attracting the attention
of the jealous ghosts of their husbands, for a similar
rule of silence is imposed on widows in some Indian
tribes of North America, and in one of them, the
Bella Coola tribe of British Columbia, the reason
assigned for it is a fear of the dead husband’s ghost,
who if she broke silence would come and lay his
ghostly hand upon her mouth, and she would die.
In this tribe the period of silence imposed upon
widows lasts only four days.1
2
* But in the Nishinam
tribe of California the period of silence imposed on
widows lasted for several months, sometimes for a
year or more.8 A similar custom for widows is
recorded for some parts of Africa. In the Kutu
tribe of the Congo widows observe mourning for
three lunar months. They shave their heads, strip
themselves almost naked, daub their bodies all over
with white clay, and pass the whole of the three
months in the house without speaking.4 Among
the Sihanaka in Madagascar the observances are
similar, but the period of silence is still longer, and
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 41
1 Baldwin Spencer and F.J.Gillen,
The Northern Tribes of Central
A ustratya(London, 1904), pp. 525 sq.
and The Native Tribes of Central
Australia (London, 1899), PP* S°°
sq. ; J. G. Frazer, Folk-Lore in the
Old Testament, iii. pp. 73-80.
2 Franz Boas, in Seventh Report
of the Committee on the North-West
Tribes of Canada, Report of the
British Associationfor the Advance­
ment of Science, Cardiff Meeting,
1891, p. 13 (separate reprint).
3 Stephen Powers, The Tribes of
California (Washington, 1877), P*
327.
4 Notes analytiques sur les col­
lections ethnographiques du Musie
du Congo, tome i. fascicule 2.
Religion (Brussels, 1906), p. 185.
42 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
sometimes for a year. During the whole of that
time the widow is stripped of all her ornaments and
covered up with a coarse mat, and she is given only
a broken spoon and a broken dish to eat out of.
She may not wash her face or her hands, but only
the tips of her fingers. In this state she remains all
day long in the house and may not speak to any one
who enters it.1 We may safely assume that all
these observances are intended to render the widow
unattractive, and even repulsive, to the jealous ghost
of her deceased husband, so that he may not come
and annoy her by his unwelcome attentions.2
Another case of silence imposed upon the living
for the sake of eluding the attention of the dead is
the widespread rule which forbids the living to
mention the names of the dead for a longer or shorter
period after their death, lest the ghost of the de­
ceased should hear and answer to his name. Else­
where I have cited many examples of this common
custom : 3 here it may suffice to illustrate the practice
with some instances which I have not quoted in my
other work. Thus we are told that the very primi­
tive aborigines of Tasmania had “ a fear of pro­
nouncing the name by which a deceased friend was
known, as if his shade might thus be offended. To
introduce, for any purpose whatever, the name of
1 Rabesikanaka (a native Mala- at large the subject of the silence
gese), “ The Sihanaka and their imposed upon widows after the
Country ” , The Antananarivo An- deaths of their husbands. See my
nual and Madagascar Magazine, Folk-Lore in the Old Testament, iii.
Reprint of the first Four Numbers pp. 71-81.
(Antananarivo, 1885), p. 326. 3 The Golden Bough, Taboo, pp.
* Elsewhere I have treated more 349*374.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 43
any one of their deceased relatives called up at
once a frown of horror and indignation, from a
fear that it would be followed by some dire cal­
amity.” 1 A similar custom was observed among
the aborigines of New South Wales by one of the
earliest voyagers to Australia. He says, “ They
either bury or burn their dead; in both cases they
commit to the grave or the pile the arms and
utensils of the deceased, viz. spears, fishing-tackle,
canoes, etc. ; even the very name is consigned to
oblivion, which they take care never again to
mention: the namesake (Tomelai) of the deceased
assumes, for a time, the name of Bourang; which
appears to be the general appellation for those in
such circumstances, and signifies that they are at
present destitute of a name, their name-father being
dead. This title they retain till they become the
namesake of another person.” 2 The natives of the
Andrawilla tribe on the Diamentina, Herbert, and
Eleanor Rivers, in East Central Australia, never
mention the names of the dead, believing that their
spirits would never rest peacefully if their names
were spoken.3 At Buin, at the extreme south of
Bougaineville, in the Solomon Islands, the old
names of the dead are not pronounced. The de­
parted are referred to by new names, “ names of the
1 J. . Barnard, “ Aborigines of 8 F. H. Wells, “ The Habits,
Tasmania ” , in Report of the Second Customs, and Ceremonies of the
Meeting of the Australasian Assoda- Aboriginals on the Diamentina,
tion for the Advancement of Science Herbert, and Eleanor Rivers, in
(1890), p. 605. East Central Australia” , in Report
2 J. Turnbull, A Voyage Round of the Fifth Meeting of the Austral-
the World in 1800-1804, Second asian Association for the Advance-
Edition (London, 1813), p. 87. ment of Science (1893), P« 5*9-
44 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
other world,” which were usually chosen Jby the de­
ceased in their lifetime.1 In Dobu, at the south­
east extremity of New Guinea, one cause of war
was the naming of the dead, for as a rule the dead
might only be named in mighty oaths, or by a
sorcerer as a last resort to save the life of a dying
man.2 The Kiwai Papuans of British New Guinea
avoid mentioning the names of the dead, in par­
ticular of those who have recently died, and are
feared after death. They say that to do so would
be a way of calling on the ghost, who might respond
to the call, and cause sickness. It would be im­
polite, also, to mention a name which might renew
the sorrow and evoke the lamentations of the
kinsfolk of the departed.3 Among the primitive
aborigines of the Andaman Islands the names of
the dead are not mentioned during the period of
mourning, which lasts several months. If it is
necessary to refer to a dead person he is spoken of
as " he who is buried by the big rock,” or “ he who
is laid in the fig-tree ”, or otherwise mentioning the
place of burial. There is no objection to mentioning
the name in other connections; for example, if a
man were called Brno, from the name of a species of
Mucuria, it is not necessary to avoid the word buio
when speaking of the plant. Further, if there is
c
1 R. Thurnwald, “ Im Bismarck- Twelfth Meeting of the Australasian
archipel und auf den Salomo-inseln, Association for the Advancement of
1906-1909 ” , Zeitschrift fur Eth~ Science (1909), p. 447.
nologie, xlii. (Berlin, 1910), p. 129.
2 W. E. Bromilow, :u Some Man- 3 G. Landtman, The Kiwai
ners and Customs of the Dobuans of Papuans of British New Guinea
South-East Papua ” , in Report of the (London, 1927), p. 293.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 45
another person alive of the same name as the dead
man it is not necessary to avoid the name in referring
to the living individual. The custom is that a dead
person must not be spoken of unless it is absolutely
necessary, and then must not be spoken of by name.
After the period of mourning is over the dead person
may again be spoken of by name.1
The Yakuts of Siberia never mention the name
of a dead person except allegorically, and allow the
hut in which a death took place to fall into ruins,
believing it to be the habitation of demons.2
Among the Malagasy or natives of Madagascar
it is prohibited under the pain of sacrilege to pro­
nounce the names which their dead relations and
chiefs or kings bore in their lifetime. They fear
that if they were to pronounce their names the
spirits of the dead would hear and return among
them, for they have a great dread of entering into
any direct relations with the spirits of the deceased.
Only a wicked sorcerer plotting the death of some­
body would dare to invoke the names of the dead.
Further, among some peoples of Madagascar, such
as the Sakalavas, it is forbidden under the gravest
penalties to use in current language words which
form parts of the names of dead kings, or which
have a similar sound, such words being replaced by
synonyms created for the purpose.3
1 A. R. Brown, The Andaman Russiainlj8$-xj94 (London, 1802),
Islanders (Cambridge, 1922), pp. p. 125.
i n , 121. 8 J. Grandidier, “ La Mort et les
2 M. Sauer, An Account of a fun^railles a Madagascar”, in
Geographical and Astronomical Ex* VAnthropologies xxiii. (Paris, 1912)
pedition to the Northern Paris of p. 348.
46 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Among the Banyankole, a pastoral' people of
Southern Uganda, it is a rule never to mention the
name of a dead person, “ and a child who inherited
property from his father was called ‘ the father of
himself ’ : thus, if N died leaving a son L who
inherited, L was never called the son of JV but ‘ the
father of L ’, which made it clear to every one that
he possessed property inherited from a dead father ”.1
In the same tribe Mr. Roscoe experienced great
difficulty in ascertaining the names of dead kings
{Mugabe), because the name of a dead king is never
pronounced after his death, and moreover if it
corresponded with some word in ordinary use, that
word was dropped out of the language.2 Among
the Barundi, a Bantu tribe of Tanganyika to the
west of Lake Victoria-Nyanza, the name of a dead
man is never pronounced for fear of attracting his
dangerous and mischievous ghost. All persons and
things that bear the same name drop it and take new
names.3 For example, after the death of the eldest
son of king Kisabo, named Namagongo, the name
of the mountain Magongo was changed to Mukidja.
Another son of king Kisabo was named Mafjuguru
which means spear. After his death the name forspear
was changed from mafjuguru to itschumut Among
the Bakongo in the valley of the Congo the name of
the dead is taboo and never pronounced, “ but if it
is necessary to refer to the deceased one, they call
him ‘old what’s his name ’ fikulu nengandi) or
1 J. Roscoe, The Banyankole 3 H, Meyer, Die Barundi (Berlin,
(Cambridge, 1923)* PP- I9i6)>P- I]C4-
2 J, Roscoe, op. cit. p. 35. d Meyer, op. cit. p. 1S6.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 47
‘ old Peter*
’ (nkulu Mpetelo), or ‘of the name of
Peter ’ (ejina dia Mpetelo). Any photographs of
the deceased are torn up, all signs of him removed
from the house, and every effort is made to forget
him ”.1 Among the Bechuanas of South Africa
the name of a dead person was usually never men­
tioned after his death, lest his spirit might be
offended.1
2 Similarly among the Bushmen of South-
West Africa when a death took place they shifted
their camp and never mentioned the name of the
deceased afterwards.3 With regard to the Tuaregs
of North Africa we are told that in spite of their
undaunted courage “ they hate the idea of death.
They do not say of any one who has died, *he is
dead ', but Aba, he has disappeared. It is a sign
of very bad breeding to speak of a dead relative or
even to pronounce his name. He must be alluded
to as mandam, or such an one.” 4 Among the
Lengua Indians of Paraguay the name of a dead
person is never mentioned, and should it be neces­
sary to refer to him, he is spoken of simply as “ he
who was ”.5 The funeral rites of these Indians are
said to aim chiefly at exorcising the dangerous
spirits of the dead.6
The Onas, an Indian tribe of Tierra del Fuego,
think it improper to mention the name of a dead
1 J. M, Weeks, Among the Primi­
tive Bakongo (London, 1914), pp.
248 sq.
2 S. S. Dornan, Pygmies and
Bushmen of the Kalahari (London,
1925), p. 279.
3 Dornan, op. cit. p. 145.
4Lieut. Hourst, French Enterprise
in Africa, translated by Mrs.
Arthur Bell (London, 1898), p. 238.
6 W, B. Grubb, An Unknown
People in an Unknown Land (Lon­
don, 1911), p. 170.
6 Grubb, op. cit. p. 168.
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
man in the presence of his relations. If it is neces­
sary to refer to him they allude to him as “our
friend ”, or “ the friend of our father ”, in the assur­
ance that the allusion will be understood.1
Thus far we have seen that by silence primitive
man has sought to elude the hearing of the dangerous
spirits of the dead ; but he has also attempted to
evade their sight. Ancient authors tell us that
among the barbarous Sacae mourners used to de­
scend into subterranean chambers or pits to evade
the light of the sun ; but we may conjecture that
the real motive was to avoid the ghost of the
deceased.2
A traveller who visited the steppes of Astrakhan
and the Caucasus in the early part of the nineteenth
century tells us that after the death of a prince his
nurses were compelled to pull out the hair of the
head, eyebrows and eyelashes. They were then put
in a perpendicular hole in the ground. The head
of each of them was covered with a pot, in which
there was a hole. They received food, but being
obliged to stay in the hole for several weeks, most of
them died.8 The motive of this strange custom is
not mentioned by the traveller ; but we may con­
jecture that the intention was to avoid all contact
with the dangerous spirit of the dead prince, with
whom in his lifetime as his nurses the women had
been in a very intimate relation.
1 C. R. Gallardo, Los Onas Apollomum, c. xxii.
(Buenos Aires, 1910), pp. 355 sg. 3 J. Potocki, Voyage dans les
2 Aelianus, Variae Historiae, ch. Steps d'Astrakhan et du Caucase
xii. 38 ; Plutarch, Consolatio ad (Paris, 1829), ii, p. 122.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 49
But in ‘order to escape from the dangerous
spirits of the dead, primitive man seeks not only to
hide himself but also to disguise himself, so that
even if the ghost sees him he will fail to recognize
him. This appears to be the true explanation of
mourning costume; it is a disguise to protect the
mourner against the observation of the ghost of a
recently deceased person, for it is in the period
immediately succeeding the death that the ghost
is deemed to be particularly dangerous. In this
matter the behaviour of the Nicobar Islanders, as
described by the excellent observer, Mr. E. H. Man,
is especially instructive. He says that in these
islands after a death “ a man takes a short lighted
torch, made of dry coconut leaves, which he waves
in all directions inside the hut with the object of
driving away any evil spirits that may be lurking
therein. With the further object of disguising them­
selves so that the departed spirits may fail to recog­
nize them, and may do them no mischief, all the
mourners shave their heads (ikoak-koi), in addition
to which the women shave their eyebrows (ikoah-
puyol-okmdt), and the men eradicate with tweezers
any hairs they may have on their upper lips and
chins (itosk-enhoin). It is also common for a
mourner, for the same reason, to assume some new
name Tor him- or herself, which, in a great measure,
accounts for the fact that some individuals have
borne several different names in the course of their
lives. This dread of the disembodied spirits of
their departed relatives and friends is induced by
VOL. I ll E
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
So
the conviction that they so keenly desire to return
to the scenes and associates of their earthly existence
that they are utterly unscrupulous as to the means
and methods they adopt for the purpose of attain­
ing their object.” 1 This passage seems to me to
furnish a clue to the whole custom of mourning
costume; it is essentially a disguise to protect the
living against the spirits of the recently deceased.
A good instance of disguise assumed to elude the
observation of a recently deceased person is fur­
nished by the Ovaherero, a tribe of South-West
Africa. As described by the Rev. G. Viehe, the
custom is as follows. “ Before his death, the man
informs his relatives regarding what will happen
after his decease. This may be good (okusera
ondaya ombua) or bad (okusera ondaya ombi). The
last is done in the following manner : If the dying
man sees a person who is not agreeable to him, he
says to him : ‘Whence do you come ? I do not wish
to see you here ’ (or something to this effect) ; and
so saying, he presses the fingers of his left hand
together in such a way that the thumb appears be­
tween the fingers. The man spoken to now knows
that the other has decided upon taking him away
(okutuaerera) after his death, which means that he
must die. In many cases, however, he can avoid
this threatening danger of death. For this purpose,
he hastily leaves the place of the dying man, and
looks for an onganga (i.e. ‘ doctor, magician ’), in
1 E. H. Man, The Nicobar Islands (Royal Anthropological Institute,
N.D.), pp. 141-142.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 5i
order to Have himself undressed, washed, and
greased again, and dressed with other clothes. He
is now quite at ease about the threatening of death
caused by the deceased ; for, says he, ' Now our
father does not know me ’ (.Nambano tate ke ndyi i).
He has no longer any reason to fear the dead.” 1
To confirm the interpretation ofmourning costume
as a disguise to protect mourners against the danger­
ous spirits of the dead it may be observed that the
customs adopted in mourning are often the very
reverse of those which obtain in ordinary life, for this
reversal of custom may naturally be explained by
the intention of baffling and deceiving the ghost,
whose dull wits do not allow him to detect the
subterfuge. Whatever may be its explanation, this
reversal of custom in mourning was long ago noted
by the shrewd and learned Plutarch, whoseresearches
into primitive custom and belief entitle him to be
called the Father of Folk-lore. Thus in his valuable
treatise called Roman Questions he tells us that at a
Roman funeral the sons of the deceased walked with
their heads covered, the daughters with their heads
uncovered, thus exactly reversing the ordinary usage,
which was that women wore coverings on their
heads while men did not. Further he proceeds to
say that similarly in Greece men and women during
a period of mourning exactly inverted their habits
of wearing the hair—the ordinary practice of men
being to cut it short, that of women to wear it long.2
1 G. Viehe, “ Some Customs of the 2 Plutarch, Quaestiones Romanae,
Ovaherero ” , in Folk-Lore Journal, xiv.
vol. i. Part III. (Cape Town) p. 51.
52 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Among the ancient Lycians it was a ‘law that in
mourning men should dress as women, thus revers­
ing the usual apparel of the sexes.1 A similar
reversal of custom in mourning has obtained among
many primitive peoples. Thus we find that savages
who ordinarily paint themselves sometimes refrain
from doing so after a death.1
2 Again, in similar
circumstances, tribes which usually go naked put
on certain articles of dress. Thus in some parts of
New Guinea, where the men go naked and the women
wear only a short grass petticoat, women in mourn­
ing wear a net over the shoulders and breast.3
Elsewhere in, New Guinea men also wear netted
vests,4and in another place “ when in deep mourn­
ing they envelope themselves with a very tight' kind
of wicker-work dress, extending from the neck to
the knees in such a way that they are not able to
walk well.” 5 On the other hand, when the Mpon-
gwes in Western Africa are in mourning, a woman
wears as few clothes as possible, and a man wears
none at all,6though the tribe is very fond of dress,
the usual garb of a man being a shirt, a square cloth
falling to the ankles, and a straw hat.7
Whether or not these peculiar costumes (or
absence of costume) were meant to disguise the
1 Plutarch, Consolatio ad Apollo-
niumi x x ii; Valerius Maximus, ii.
6. 13.
2 P. F, X. de Charlevoix, Histoire
du Paraguay (Paris, 1756), i. p. 73.
3 J. Chalmers and W. W. Gill,
Work and Adventures in New
Guinea (London, 1885), p. 35.
4 Chalmers and Gill, op. cit. p. 130.
5 Chalmers and Gill, op. cit. p. 149,
6 J. G. Wood, The Natural His­
tory of Man (London, 1874-1880)
i. p. 586.
7P. B. Du Chaillu, Equatorial
Africa (London, 1861), p. 9. Cf. J.
L. Wilson, Western Africa (London,
1856), c. 19.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 53
wearers of them from the ghost of the deceased,
certain it is that disguises have been assumed as a
means of deceiving spirits. Thus the Mosquito
Indians believe that the devil (Wulasha) tries to get
possession of the corpse ; so after they have lulled
him, to sleep with sweet music “ four naked men
who have disguised themselves with paint, so as not
to be recognized by Wulasha, rush out from a
neighbouring hut ” and drag the body to the grave.1
At the feast held on the anniversary of the death
these same Indians wear cloaks fantastically painted
black and white, while their faces are correspond­
ingly streaked with red and yellow, perhaps to
deceive the devil. Again in Siberia, when a Sha­
man accompanies a soul to the underworld, he
often paints his face red, expressly that he may not
be recognized by the devils.2 In South Guinea,
when a woman is sick she is dressed in a fantastic
costume, her face, breast, arms, and legs are painted
with streaks of white and red chalk, and her head
is decorated with red feathers. Thus arrayed she
struts about before the door of the hut brandishing
a sword.3 The intention is doubtless to deceive or
intimidate the spirit which is causing the sickness.
In Guinea, women in their pregnancy also assume a
peculiar attire; they leave off ornaments, allow their
hair to*grow, wear peculiar cuffs, and in the last eight
days their heads are thickly plastered with red clay,
1 Bancroft, The Native Races of sig, 1884), p. 55.
the Pacific States of North America,
i. pp. 744 sq. 3 J. L. Wilson, Western Africa,
2 W. Radloff, A us Siherien (Leip- c. 28,
54 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
which they may not leave off till the child is born.1
All this is probably done to disguise the women from
the demons who are commonly supposed to lie in
wait for women at such periods.
The customs of blackening the face or body and
of cutting the hair short after a death are very
widespread. But when we find these customs ob­
served after the death, not of a friend, but of a slain
enemy, as is reported of some Indians of Central
America,2 no one will pretend that they are in­
tended as marks of sorrow, and the explanation that
they are meant to disguise the slayer from the angry
ghost of the slain may be allowed to stand till a
better is suggested. These disguises are meant to
serve the same purpose as the so-called purifica­
tion of slayers of men and beasts. In fact “ mourn­
ing ” and “ purification ” run into each other; this
“ mourning” is not mourning, and this “ purifica­
tion ” is not purification. Both are simply pieces of
spiritual armour, defences against ghosts or demons.
In regard to “ mourning ” costume this appears
clearly in the Myoro custom ; when the child of a
Myoro woman in Africa dies, she smears herself with
butter and ashes and runs frantically about, while
the men abuse her in foul language, for the express
purpose of frightening away the demons who have
carried off the child.3 If the curses are m6ant to
frighten, are not the ashes meant to deceive the
1J. Klemm, AUgemeine Cultur- the Pacific States of North America,
Gesckichte der Menschheit (Leipzig, i. 764*
IS44), iii. pp. 284-285. 3 J. H. Speke, Journal of the
2Bancroft, The Native Races of Discovery of the Source of the Nile.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 55
demon ? Here the disguise is adopted as a protec­
tion, not against the spirit of the dead, but against
the devils which carried it off, and it is possible that
the same may be true of “ mourning ” costume in
other cases ; but considering the generally vicious
and dangerous nature of ghosts, it is probable that
“ mourning ” costume was usually a protection
against them, rather than against devils.
The custom of cutting the hair short after a death
has been very common all over the world ; examples
would be endless. Here I will cite only a single
instance. In the Babar Archipelago of the East
Indies, when a corpse is being carried to the grave
all the inmates of the houses which the funeral
procession passes cut locks of their hair and throw
them out of the house.1 This is probably done as
a precaution to prevent the ghost of the deceased
from entering the house and molesting the inmates,
or carrying their souls off with him to the grave. It
may be worth while to notice that the Greeks, not
content with cutting short the hair of men in mourn­
ing, cut off the manes of their horses on the same
occasion, and a similar custom was observed in
antiquity by the ancient Persians and in modem
times by the Comanche Indians. The Comanches
cut off the tails as well as the manes. Possibly the
Greeks and Persians did so too, but it is only said that
they “ shaved ” their horses, except in Euripides,
where the shaving is distinctly confined to the
1 J. H. F. Riedel, De Sluik- en Kroesharige Passen tusschen Selebes en
Papua, p. 362.
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
56
manes.1 The Turkish tribes of Central,Asia, after
the death of a hero, cut offthe tails of all his favourite
horses, let them go free for a year, and then sacrifice
them on his grave.1
2 The opposite custom of letting
the hair grow long in mourning is much rarer ; it
has been practised by the Egyptians, Jews, Chinese,
widows on the Slave Coast, and Hindu sons in
mourning for a parent.3 It is also observed by the
Japanese,4and in some districts among the Ainos.5
Among the Birhors, a primitive jungle tribe of Chota
Nagpur, when a death has taken place in a settle­
ment, no man in the settlement will shave for seven
days.6 The Nairs of Southern India do not shave
or cut the hair for a year in mourning.7 With regard
to some of the Indians of Canada we are told by an
old Jesuit missionary that when a man had lost a
kinsman by death he used to allow his hair to grow
long in sign of mourning.8 Among the Angoni of
British Central Africa women usually shave their
heads, but in times of sorrow and trouble, and there­
fore no doubt in mourning, they allow the hair to
1 Euripides, Alcestis, 429 ; Plu­
tarch, Pelopidas, 33 ; Alexander,
72 ; Aristides, 14; Herodotus, ix.
24; Bancroft, op. cit. i. 523.
2 H. Vambery, Das Tiirkenvolk
(Leipzig, 1885), p. 250.
8 For Egyptians see Herodotus, ii.
36 ; for Jews, J. Buxtorf, Synagoga
Judaica (Bale, 1661), p. 706, and
Bodenschatz, Kirchliche Verfassung
der heutigen Juden, iv. 179; for
Chinese, J. H. Gray, China (London,
1878), i. 286; for Slave Coast, P.
Bouche, La Cote des Esclaves et le
Dahomey, p. 218 sq. ; for Hindus,
S. C. Bose, The Hindus as They Are
(London and Calcutta, 1881), p. 254.
4 Manners and Customs of the
Japanese in the Nineteenth Century
(London, 1841), p. 197.
6 B. Scheube, Die Ainos (Yoko­
hama), p. 22.
6 S. C. Roy, The Birhors (Ranchi,
1925), p. 265. According to another
account the period of abstinence
from shaving is ten days. E. T.
Dalton, Descriptive Ethnology of
Bengal (Calcutta, 1872), p. 220
7 S. Maheer, Native Life in
Travancore, p. 173.
8 Relations des Jesuites for 1646,
p. 48.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 57
grow. In Jboth men and women, the dirtier they
are, the deeper the mourning.1 The Oigob, a tribe
of Masai in East Africa, may not cut their hair for
two months after a death. In the third month, on
the sixth day after the new moon, the relations, both
men and women, cut off the hair of their head and
all the rest of their hair, go out before the village,
kill several oxen, and eat the flesh in one day.2
When Mutesa, king of Uganda, died, “ the whole
country went into mourning, and every one allowed
his hair to grow.” 3 In ordinary mourning the
Hovas of Madagascar let their hair and beards grow.
But in mourning for a sovereign the people shave
their heads.4 Among the Chewsurs of the Caucasus
men in mourning do not shave.5 It is reported that
in New Caledonia when a man has buried a corpse
he allows his beard and hair to grow, and covers
his hair with a sort of turban. He never uncovers
it, and if he were seen by a woman arranging his
hair he would have to perform ablutions in the
depths of the forest.6 In Sardinia the men do not
shave for a year after the death of their wives,7and
in Corsica men in mourning often let their beards
1 W. M. Kerr, “ Journey from 4 A. Grandidier, “ Des rites fune-
Cape Town overland to Lake raires chez les Malagaches’^in./fez^
Nyassa ” , in Proceedings of the d'Ethnographie, iv. (1885) P* 229*
Royal Geographical Society, MS. 5 j. Radde, Die Chews' uren und
viii (1886), p. 81. ikr Land (Cassel, 1878), p. 91.
2 J. M. Hildebrandt, “ Ethno- « Ch. Lemire, Voyage a pied en
graphische Notizen flber Wakamba Nouvelle - Caledonie (Paris, 1884),
und ihre Nachbarn ” , Zeitschrift p .117
fiir Etknologie, x. (1878) p. 405. R ' Tennant) W lW a m d iis
3 R. P. Ashe, Two Kings of Resources (Rome and London, 1885),
Uganda (London, 1889), p. 79. p. 236.
58 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
grow for a long time.1 We have already seen that
in ancient Greece the men but not the women allowed
their hair to grow long in mourning.1
2
Among many peoples ancient and modern the
custom of cutting the hair short in mourning has
often been accompanied by the laceration of the
body of the mourner in a great variety of ways;
but there appears to be little or no evidence that this
laceration of the body is designed to deceive the
ghost of the dead by rendering the person of the
mourner unrecognizable. On the contrary there is
some evidence to show that the laceration is intended
to please the ghost of the deceased by proving to
him the sincerity and depth of the mourners’ grief.
The Australian evidence in particular points in
this direction. For example among the Arunta of
Central Australia if a man does not cut himself
sufficiently in honour of his dead father-in-law
his wife will be given away to another man in
order to appease the angry ghost of his deceased
father-in-law.3 Elsewhere I have discussed the
two customs, often conjoined, of cutting the hair
and lacerating the body of the mourner, and
must refer the reader to my discussion for fuller
details.4
But the attempts of primitive man to deceive the
1 F. Gregorovius, Corsica, trans­
lated by R. Martineau (London,
1855), p. 283.
2 See above, p. 51. On mourning
costumes cf. my essay “ On Certain
Burial Customs as illustrative of the
Primitive Theory of the Soul,,} in
Garnered Sheaves (London, 1931),
pp. 42-46.
8 Spencer and Gillen, Native
Tribes of Central Australia, p. 500.
4 Folk-Lore in the Old Testament,
vol. iii. pp. 270-303.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 59
spirits of the dead are by no means limited to the
assumption of mourning costume, if that indeed be,
as I have suggested, the true explanation of the
peculiar garb assumed by mourners. He has many
other artful dodges by which he hopes to take
advantage of that guilelessness and simplicity of
mind which he commonly imputes to the spirits of
the departed. One of these consists in the use of
effigies which he attempts to palm off upon the
spirits as substitutes for the living person, hoping
that the threatening spirit will not notice the differ­
ence, but will accept the effigy and spare the person.
Thus for example in Tahiti after a death the priest
who performed the funeral rites took a number of
small slips of plantain leaf-stalk, fixed two or three
pieces under each arm of the corpse, placed a few
on the breast, and then, addressing the dead body,
said, “ There are your family, there is your child,
there is your wife, there is your father, and there is
your mother. Be satisfied yonder (that is, in the
world of the spirits). Look not towards those who
are left in this world.”—“ The concluding parts ofthe
ceremony were designed to impart contentment to
the departed, and to prevent the spirit from repair­
ing to the places of his former resort, and so distress­
ing the survivors.” 1 When the Galelareese of Hal-
mahera, an island to the west of New Guinea, bury
a corpse, they inter with it the stem of a banana-tree
1 W. Ellis, Polynesian Researches, subject in The Golden Bough:
Second Edition (London, 1832), i. Spirits of the Corn and of the Wild,
402. With this and what follows vol. ii. pp. 97 sqq.} which I here
compare my exposition of the same closely follow.
6o THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
for company, in order that the ghost of the dead
person may not seek a companion among the living.1
Just as the coffin is being lowered into the earth, one
of the bystanders steps up and throws a young
banana-tree into the grave, saying, “ Friend, you
must miss your companions of this earth ; here, take
this as a comrade”. Thus in the Banks Islands,
Melanesia, “ the ghost of a vasisgona, a woman who
has died in childbed, cannot go to Panoi ” (the spirit
land) " if her child lives, for she cannot leave her
child. They therefore deceive her ghost by making
up loosely a piece of a banana trunk in leaves, and
laying it on her bosom when she is buried. Then, as
she departs, she thinks she has the child with her;
as she goes the banana stalk slips about in the leaves
and she thinks the child is moving ; and this in her
bewildered new condition contents her, till she gets
to Panoi and finds that she has been deceived. In
the meanwhile the child has been taken to another
house, because they know that the mother will come
back to take its soul. She seeks everywhere for the
child in grief and rage without ceasing; and the
ghost of a vasisgona therefore is particularly
dreaded.” 2 In the Pelew Islands, when a woman
has died in childbed, her spirit comes and cries,
“ Give me the child ! ” So to deceive her they
bury the stem of a young banana-tree with her
body, cutting it short and laying it between her
1 M. J. van Baarda, “ Fabelen, Nederlandsch-Indie, xlv. (1895) p.
vcrhalen en Overleveringen der 539.
Galelareezen ” , in Bijdragm tot de 2 R. H. Codrington, The Mela-
Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde van nesians (Oxford, 1891), p. 275.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 61
right arm ‘and her breast.1 The same device is
adopted for the same purpose in the East Indian
island of Timor.1
2 In the Niger delta when a
woman has died in childbed a piece of a plantain
stem is forced into the womb of her dead body to
make her fancy that she has her child with her in
the spirit land and so to prevent her ghost from
coming back to claim the living child.3 Among the
Yorubas of West Africa, when one of twins dies, the
mother carries about, along with the surviving child
a small wooden figure roughly fashioned in human
shape and of the sex of the dead twin. This figure
is intended not merely to keep the live child from
pining for its lost comrade, but. also to give the
spirit of the dead child something into which it can
enter without disturbing its little brother or sister.4
Among the Tschwi of West Africa a lady observed
a sickly child with an image beside it which she
took for a doll. But it was no doll; it was an effigy
of the child’s dead twin which was being kept near
the survivor as a habitation for the little ghost, lest
it should wander homeless and, feeling lonely, call
its companion away after it to the spirit land.5
Among the Wajagga, a tribe of the great mountain
1 J. Kubary, “ Die Religion der
Pelauer ” , in A. Bastian’s A Herlei
aus folks- und Menschenkunde
(Berlin, 1888), i. p. 9.
2 W. M. Donselaar, “ Aanteeken-
ingen over het eiland Saleijer” , in
Mededeelingen van wege het Neder-
landsche Zendlinggenootschap, i.
(1857) p. 290.
3 Le Comte C. N. de Cardi,
“ Juju laws and customs in the Niger
Delta ” , inJournal of the Anthropo­
logical Institute, xxix. (1899) p. 58.
4 A. B. Ellis, The Yoruba-
Speaking Peoples of the Slave Coast
of West Africa (London, 1894), p. 80.
3 Miss Mary H. Kingsley, Travels
in West Africa (London, 1879), p,
473-
62 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Kilimanjaro in East Africa, it is believed that when
a woman dies in childbed her affectionate ghost will
return to fetch away her living child with her to the
spirit land. So to prevent this from happening they
placethe shoot ofa banana tree in the lap of her corpse
when they bury it, hoping that her ghost will accept
this substitute and leave her living child in peace.1
In San Cristoval, one of the Solomon Islands,
there is a very curious custom called ha’a ariro or
misleading the ghost. When the canoe containing
the corpse is carried out of the house, all the children
walk under it and back again while it is lifted high
up. “ Another form of puzzling the ghost, so that
it will forget a child and not haunt him, is to take
the young nut of a coconut and slice it in two, and
then the same with another nut. Then take half of
each nut and join them together and put this made-
up nut under the right armpit of the dead. The
ghost will be so puzzled and taken up with trying
to fit together the two halves of what he supposes
to be one nut that he will not haunt his child. On
the south coast of Arosi half a reremo fruit and half
a young coconut are thus joined ; in the bush half
the fruit of ahuhu and half a canarium nut. But
the idea is the same.” 2 In Ulawa, another of the
Solomon Islands, the bodies of the dead are usually
taken out in a canoe, and thrown into the sea,
weighted with a stone, so as to sink them to the
bottom. When this has been done the canoes paddle
1 B. Gutmann, Dichten und 2 C. E. Fox, The Threshold of the
Dtnken der Dschagganeger (Leipzig, Pacific (London, 1924), p. 211.
1909), P -9i-
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 6
3
four or six times round the spot, in order to puzzle
the ghost should he seek to follow them.1 Among
the Melanesians of the South-East Solomon Islands,
when one of a pair of twins died, a coconut was
placed beside the living twin to deceive the ghost of
his dead brother or sister, and the coconut was
spoken of as “ your brother ” or “ your sister
In Fiji “ the spirits of women who die in childbirth,
or before the child is weaned, are greatly dreaded,
especially if the child were not born in wedlock. It
is a common custom to lay upon the breast of such
a woman a piece of a banana stem wrapped in native
cloth, and to bury it with her. This is done to cheat
her into the belief that it is her baby which she has
lying on her breast. The child in the meanwhile
is carried secretly to a distant town, that its dead
mother may be unable to find it if she discovers the
cheat. Other precautions also are taken. In some
places bits of bamboo are strung loosely on a cord
and fastened to the wrists of a corpse, so that by
their rattling they may give warning of her approach
if she takes to walking by night. Elsewhere the
poor woman is buried with her liku or waist-fringe
untied, that it may fall down when she rises, and
the wretched ghost may be thereby compelled to sit
down again with shame and confusion of face.
“ fn several parts of Fiji, when an old man dies
a curious custom is observed. Before the body is
carried forth to the burial, it is either lifted up by
1 C. E. Fox, op, cit. pp. 256-257. South-East Solomon Islands (Lon-
2 W. G, Ivens, Melanesians of the don, 1927), p. 77.
64 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
the bearers or laid upon a raised platform. A man
(the brother of the child’s mother) then takes the
son’s son of the deceased, passes him rapidly several
times hither and thither, and under and over the
corpse, and then runs away with him at top speed.
This is done in order to bewilder the old gentleman
as to the direction in which the child is taken away,
it being supposed that he will be very desirous to
have his grandson with him where he is, and will
therefore seek to kill him. A like custom is observed
when the father dies; but it is the father’s father
who is especially dreaded, for it is supposed that the
relationship between the paternal grandfather and
his grandchild is closer than that which exists
between the child and his father. This idea can
be clearly traced to the former prevalence of descent
through females, which indeed is still the rule among
some of the Fijian tribes.” 1
Some of the aborigines in Northern Queensland,
like many other Australian tribes, deposit their dead
on stages at a distance from the camp. Having
done so they bark the trees in the neighbourhood so
as to make a false trail leading back to the stage
where the corpse is lying. This is done in order to
lead the wandering spirit of the dead back to his
body on the stage, and to prevent him from follow­
ing his friends back to their camp.2
1 L. Fison, “ Notes on Fijian 2 J. C. Muirhead, quoted by
Burial Customs ” , in Journal of the Howitt in Journal of the Royal
Royal Anthropological Institute, x. AnthropologicalInstitute, xiii. (1884)
(1881) p. 145 ; id. L. Fison, Tales of p. 191.
Old F iji (London, 1904), pp. 168 sq.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 65
The Kai tribe of Northern New Guinea often
think that a death among them has been caused by
the enchantments of a wicked sorcerer in a neigh­
bouring village, and they send out a warlike expedi­
tion to take vengeance on him and his village.
Sometimes, instead of sending forth a band of
warriors to ravage, burn, and slaughter the whole
male population of the village in which the wicked
sorcerer resides, the people of one village will come
to a secret understanding with the people of the
sorcerer’s village to have the miscreant quietly put
out of the way. A hint is given to the scoundrel’s
next of kin, it may be his brother, son, or nephew,
that if he will only wink at the slaughter of his
obnoxious relative, he will receive a handsome com­
pensation from the slayers. Should he privately
accept the offer, he is most careful to conceal his
Connivance at the deed of blood, lest he should draw
down on his head the wrath of his murdered kins­
man’s ghost. So, when the deed is done and the
murder is out, he works himself up into a state of
virtuous sorrow and indignation, covers his head
with the leaves of a certain plant, and chanting a
dirge in tones ofheart-rending grief, marches straight
to the village of the murderers. There, on the public
square, surrounded by an attentive audience, he
opens the floodgates of his eloquence and pours forth
the torrents of an aching heart. “ You have slain
my kinsman,” says he, “ you are wicked men !
How could you kill so good a man, who conferred
so many benefits on me in his lifetime ? I knew
VOL. I ll F
6 6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
nothing of the plot. Had I had an inkling of it,
I would have foiled it. How can I now avenge his
death ? I have no property with which to hire men
of war to go and punish his murderers. Yet in spite
of everything my murdered kinsman will not believe
in my innocence! He will be angry with m e; he
will pay me out; he will do me all the harm he can.
Therefore do you declare openly whether I had any
share whatever in his death, and come and strew
lime on my head in order that he may convince
himself of my innocence.” This appeal of injured
innocence meets with a ready response. The people
dust the leaves on his head with powdered lime ;
and so, decorated with the white badge of spotless
virtue, and enriched with a boar’s tusk or other
valuable object as the price of his compliance, he
returns to his village with a conscience at peace with
all the world, reflecting with satisfaction on the
profitable transaction he has just concluded, and
laughing in his sleeve at the poor deluded ghost of
his murdered relative.
Sometimes the worthy soul who thus for a valu­
able consideration consents to waive all his personal
feelings, will even carry his self-abnegation so far
as to be present and look on at the murder of his
kinsman. But true to his principles he will see to
it that the thing is done decently and humanely.
When the struggle is nearly over and the man is
down, writhing on the grass with the murderers busy
about him, his loving kinsman will not suffer them
to take an unfair advantage of their superior num­
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 67
bers to cut him up alive with their knives, to chop
him with their axes, or to smash him with their clubs.
He will only allow them to stab him with their spears,
repeating of course the stabs again and again till the
victim ceases to writhe and quiver, and lies there
dead as a stone. Then begins the real time of peril
for the virtuous kinsman who has been a spectator
and director of the scene; for the ghost of the
murdered man has now deserted its mangled body,
and, still blinded with blood and smarting with pain,
might easily and even excusably misunderstand the
situation. It is essential, therefore, in order to pre­
vent a painful misapprehension, that the kinsman
should at once and emphatically disclaim any part
or parcel in the murder. This he accordingly does
in language which leaves no room for doubt or
ambiguity. He falls into a passion ; he rails at the
murderers ; he proclaims his horror at their deed.
All the way home he refuses to be comforted. He
upbraids the assassins, he utters the most frightful
threats against them ; he rushes at them to snatch
their weapons from them and dash them in pieces.
But they easily wrench the weapons from his un­
resisting hands. For the whole thing is only a
piece of acting. His sole intention is that the
ghost may see and hear it all, and being convinced
of the innocence of his dear kinsman may not
punish him with bad crops, wounds, sickness, and
other misfortunes. Even when he has reached
the village, he keeps up the comedy for a time,
raging, fretting, and fuming at the irreparable loss
68 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
he has sustained by the death of his lamented
relative.
Similarly when a chief has among his subjects a
particular sorcerer whom he fears, but with whom
he is professedly on terms of friendship, he will some­
times engage a man to murder him. No sooner,
however, is the murder perpetrated than the chief
who bespoke it hastens in seeming indignation with
a band of followers to the murderer’s village. The
assassin, of course, has got a hint of what is coming,
and he and his friends take care not to be at home
when the chief arrives on his mission of vengeance.
Balked by the absence of their victim the avengers
of blood breathe out fire and slaughter, but content
themselves in fact with smashing an old pot or two,
knocking down a deserted hut, and perhaps felling
a banana-tree or a betel-palm. Having thus given
the ghost of the murdered man an unequivocal proof
of the sincerity of their friendship, they return
quietly home.1
Among the Sea Dyaks of Borneo, when a death
has taken place in a village, the body, wrapped in
mats and covered over with a light framework of
wood, is carried out of the house on the shoulders of
four men. As they descend the house-ladder, ashes
from the fire burnt near the corpse are thrown after
them by the people who are left in the house. This
is done in order that the dead man’s ghost may not
1 Ch. Keysser, “ Aus dem. Leben Beliefin Immortality, i. pp. 280-282*
der Kaileute” , in R. Neuhauss, In the text I have reproduced my
Deutsch Neu Guinea (Berlin, 1911), English version from the latter work,
iii. pp. 148-149, Cf, J. G. Frazer,
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 69
know his way back to the house, and may thus be
unable to trouble his friends afterwards.1 This
Dyak custom has been described by a Dyak in his
native language. His account, as translated by an
English missionary, runs thus : “ The burial takes
place in the early hours of the morning, at the first
sign of twilight. As soon as the corpse is carried
away from the house ashes are strewn over the foot­
prints of the bearers. These ashes are supposed to
prevent the soul of the deceased from finding its way
back again to the house, should it desire to return and
haunt the living.” 2 From this we see that a return­
ing ghost is believed to followthe tracks ofthe bearers
who carried his body from the house to its last
resting-place. That is why it is necessary to conceal
the footprints of the bearers by ashes or otherwise.
Among the Tungus, a people of Siberia, on
returning from a funeral ceremony the mourners
try to efface the footprints they have made in the
snow, or else cut down trees so that they fall across
the way, in order to prevent the return of the ghost.3
In this case the effacing of the footprints is an alterna­
tive to blocking the path by the trunks of fallen
trees. The custom of erecting physical barriers to
prevent the return of the ghost has been illustrated
in a former part of this work.4
1 E. H. Gomes, Seventeen Years (1906) p. 669.
among the Sea Dyaks of Borneo 8 M. A. Czaplicka, Aboriginal
(London, 1911), pp. 135-136. Siberia (Oxford, 1914), pp. 155-156,
2 Leo Nyuak, “ Religious Rites referring to Mordvinoff, The Natives
and Customs of the Iban or Dyaks of the Turukhansk Country.
of Sarawak” , translated by Very 4 The Fear of the Dead in Primi-
Rev. Edm. Dunn, in Anthropos, i. tive Religion, ii. pp. 27-53.
70 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
In ancient India, when a corpse was carried to the
pyre, a branch was tied to the body in such a way
that it brushed and effaced the footprints of the
bearers in order that death, or rather the ghost of
the dead man, might not find his way back to the
house.1
In South Nias, an island off the west coast
of Sumatra, the corpse is coffined outside of the
village, in order that the spirit of the dead may not
find its way back to the village to fetch somebody
there. For this reason there is, also in North Nias,
no regular path to the cemeteries, but on eachoccasion
of a burial a path is cleared to the cemetery.2
Among the Karens, a tribe of Burma, when a
corpse has been burned on the pyre they bring back
the skull and the bones of the arms and legs to the
house. After that they adopt a sort of inverted
form of action and speech. They winnow some rice
on a sieve turned upside down and, addressing the
spirit of the dead, they say, “ See, it is necessary to
clean the rice before cooking it.” Then they set it
beside the bones of the deceased. Next the priest
takes the skull in his hands and, showing it a vessel
of water, says, “ If you are cold, bathe yourself” ;
and showing it next burning coals, says, “ If you
are warm, heat yourself.” And in addressing the
ghost he adopts an inverted form of speech in which
everything is designated by a name the reverse of
1 H. Oldenberg, Die Religion des dragen tot de Taal-Land*en Volken-
Veda (Berlin, 1894), p. 573. kunde van Nederlandsch•hidie, lxii.
8 N. C. Rappard, “ Het ciland (1909) p. 573.
Nias en zijne Bewoners ” , in Bij-
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 7 i
the real one. Thus he calls the north the south, and
the south the north, and he calls the west the east,
and the east the west. He speaks of the sky as the
earth, and of the earth as the sky. In his speech
the trees have their roots in the air and their branches
in the earth. All this the priest does, as the mis­
sionary who reports the custom rightly thought, for
the purpose of so confusing the ghost that he will
not wander and trouble the survivors. At the con­
clusion of his address the priest places the skull and
the bones in a miniature house or reliquary, in which
it is apparently hoped that the spirit of the dead will
continue to reside peaceably.1
Among the Palaungs of Burma a very curious
mode of deceiving the ghost of a dead child has been
recorded by an excellent observer, Mrs. Leslie
Milne. She says : “ The following is a very grue­
some way of making an amulet. When a woman
dies with her child unborn, she is rolled in a mat and
buried as soon as possible. In the evening of the
same day the man who wished to make the amulet
goes with three or four other men to the grave where
the woman has been buried. It would be in a
lonely place, far from the graves of others, for it is
believed that people who have died a violent death,
or on whom great misfortunes have fallen, must
have committed some terrible crime in their last
existence to come to such a terrible end. When the
man (who wishes to have the amulet) and his
1 J. B. Bringaud, “ Un chapitre Karins ” , in Missions Catholiqu.es>
de Tefchnographie des Birmans xxviii. (1896) p. 521.
72 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
friends reach the grave, they first make a little
shrine of grass or bamboo ; then they stick a few
flowers and flags of paper into it and set a bunch of
bananas before it. These offerings are to appease
the spirit of the dead woman. Stripping himself
absolutely naked, the man then goes to the grave
and digs out the earth until he reaches the mat in
which the body of the dead woman is rolled. This
he cuts open, then he operates on the body of the
woman so as to be able to bite off the little finger of
the unborn child. Having done this, he hurriedly
replaces the mat, and shovels in the earth to fill up
the grave. His companions, who have brought
sticks with them, now give him a severe beating, to
show that they are not to blame for what their com­
panion has done, and also to make the spirit of the
dead woman believe that the man who has violated
her grave is being well punished for his temerity.
They then withdraw, and the man dresses himself
and goes home, carrying with him the little finger of
the baby. He makes a large fire in the entrance-
room of his house and sits as near to it as possible,
as a Palaung woman would sit who had recently
given birth to a child. He wraps himself in a
blanket so that his clothes are hidden. He does
this in order to make the child’s ghost—if it has
followed him to the house—believe that he is its
mother. He has previously prepared cooked rice
and bananas. In the middle of the night—as
Palaungs believe—the ghost of the baby comes into
the room to demand its finger. It is appeased at
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 73
intervals all through the night by offerings of rice
and bananas. The ghost is supposed to come for
seven nights, and each night a fresh offering of rice
and bananas is made. The seven days being over,
it is hoped that the child's spirit has gone to eat the
fruit of forgetfulness, or has become a kar-man in
the jungle, therefore no more offerings are made to
it. The man then gilds the finger, and Palaungs
say that any one at whom he points it—especially a
girl whom he loves—can refuse him nothing.” 1
Often in funerals the bearers of the corpse, in
carrying it to the grave or the pyre, perform certain
strange evolutions, for the purpose of so confusing
the spirit of the dead that he will not be able to find
his way back to his old home. Thus, for example,
among the Chams of Indo-China, who burn their
dead, " when at length the great day arrives the
priests construct a catafalque adorned with paper
figures, the mourners line up in procession behind,
and all proceed to the appointed place. Every
villager dons his white scarf—white being the
colour of mourning—brandishes a spear, sword, or
flag, and joins in the cortege. The bearers perform
the most remarkable evolutions with the body,
carrying it now feet first, now head first, or turning
it round and round in order to confuse the spirit
and prevent it from finding its way back. This
essential object is also secured by a priest, known on
1 Mrs. Leslie Milne, The Home of inhabiting a tree, water, air, earth or
an Eastern Clan (Oxford, 1924), p, stone : see Mrs. Leslie Milne, op. at.
266. In the Palaung language p. 342.
kar-man denotes a spirit of the dead
74 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
these occasions as Po Damoeun or ‘ Lord of
Sorrow who remains in the house of the deceased
shuts himself in, and calls on every object, animate
and inanimate, to prevent the soul from entering
and molesting the living ”.1 At a funeral in
Burma, when a corpse is being carried to the pyre
to be burnt, the bearers of the bier engage in grot­
esque dances, sometimes allowing it to advance,
and sometimes to recede, as if its possession were
being contested ; and at the pyre, before they lay
the coffin on the wood, they sway it backwards and
forwards seven times before the sacred Bo tree.2
The writers who describe this ceremony do not ex­
plain the reasons for the grotesque dances and other
movements of the bearers; but probably their
motive was the usual one of confusing the ghost, and
so preventing his return. Among the Bataks of
Sumatra, before carrying a corpse out of a house, the
bearers first walk backwards and forwards several
times, as if to confuse the dead and prevent him
from finding his way back again.3 In the Adelaide
tribe of the Australian aborigines, when a man dies
“ a rude bier is prepared by fastening together ten
or twelve branches, so as to form the radii of a circle ;
and, when the body is lifted upon this bier, the
ground upon which the man died is dug up by his
wives or women related to him, with their long
1 Commandant Baudesson, Au 3 M. and B. Ferrars, Burma
pays des superstitions et des rites (London, 1900), p, 195,
(Paris), p. 249 ; Captain H. Baudes-
son, Indo’China and its Primitive 8 J. Freiherr von Brenner, Besuch
People, p. 313. I quote from the beiden Kannibalen Sumatras (Wurz-
English translation. burg, 1894), p. 235.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 75
sticks, occasionally assisted by the men. A little
heap of earth is thus formed, supposed to contain
the ‘ wingko ’, or breath that has left the body, and
which this digging is intended to set free. While
this is being done, the bier is raised upon the shoul­
ders of several men, each one taking a branch, and
some facing one way, others another. They move
slowly off from the spot, stopping at intervals, and
performing a quick rotatory motion in one direction,
and, when they can do so no longer, in the opposite
one. All this while a man stands under the centre
of the bier, assisting to support it with his head ;
and, after each rotation, he addresses the deceased,
asking him how and why he died, who killed him,
etc. The group of men surrounding the bier and
its supporters are all armed with their spears and
other weapons, and the women carry their long
sticks and bags. Sometimes the bearers move for­
ward as if by a consentaneous impulse, and, at
others, one of the bystanders beckons to a spot to
which the body is immediately borne, and the rota­
tions are repeated. Even the presence of the
feather of some rare bird upon the ground will
attract their attention to that particular place, and
the circumvolutions will there be renewed with
increased energy. If there happens to be large
trees in the neighbourhood, they walk quickly up to
one and then another, resting the bier against them ;
and, on every such occasion, the deceased is interro­
gated as before. Between every act of rotation,
their march is more extended; so that they thus
by degrees proceed farther from the place where
the death occurred, until at last they walk off alto­
gether to a distant locality, in which it is resolved to
bury the body ; the ceremony occasionally con­
tinuing more than one day. The place of burial
being fixed upon, the earth or sand is loosened by
the digging-sticks, and thrown out by the hands ;
the body is laid in the grave on one side, and the
hole being filled up again, is usually covered with
branches and bark of trees ”.1 The writer who
describes these burial rites does not explain the
motive for the rotations and other odd behaviour of
the bearers ; but probably we shall not err in sup­
posing that their aim is to lure the spirit of the dead
far away from his old home, and so to bewilder him
on his last journey that he will never find his way
back to trouble his family and friends.
The peasants of Ho-nan, in China, fear the
ghosts of young children even more than the ghosts
of grown men, for when they die children receive
no ancestral honours in the domestic shrine, and
accordingly their ghosts are angry and seek to
avenge themselves on their family by killing the
cattle or the fish on which the people live. However,
their relations have a mode of guarding themselves
against these dangerous spirits. When a child is
sick, and at the point of death, they expose or drown
or bury the little sufferer, and the man who carries
the dying child to its last home is careful not to walk
i W. Wyatt, “ Some Account of in The Native Tribes of South
the Manners and Customs of the Australia (Adelaide, 1879), pp.
Adelaide andEncounter Bay Tribes” , 164-165.
76 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 77
in a straight line. He moves in a zigzag, going
and returning, pacing now to the east and now to
the west, describing a confusion of triangles, in
order that in this labyrinth of broken lines the ghost
of the child may never be able to trace its way home.
So the family in the house are quite at their ease,
thinking that they will never be troubled by the
depredation of their child's ghost on the domestic
cattle and fish.1
The Koryaks, a primitive tribe in the extreme
north-east of Siberia, burn their dead, and when
they have placed a body on the pyre they take
measures to prevent the dangerous spirit of the de­
ceased from following them back to the house.
Mr. Jochelson, who witnessed the cremation of a
girl’s body, has described their precautions as
follows : " When the clothes were burned, and the
child’s head appeared, her grandfather took a pole,
and, thrusting it into the body, said, ‘Of yonder mag­
pie pricked ’ (A ’nalan vaki’tha ti'npinen) ; or, in a
free translation, ‘ This is the magpie of the under­
world which pricked ’. He imitated the actions of
the magpie of the world of the dead, in order to
inform the deceased that she was passing to another
world, and must not return to the house. The
further actions of the dead girl’s grandfather had
the same end in view. When the flames of the pyre
were dying away, he broke some twigs from the
alder and willow bushes that were growing near by,
1 A letter of the missionary Propagation de la Foi, xxiv. {1852)
Delaplace, dated Moncy-te-Fou, 25 pp. 250 sqq.
September 1851, in Annales de la
and strewed them around the pyre. These twigs
represented a dense forest which was supposed to
surround the burning-place. We left the place
while the pyre was still burning. Before leaving,
the grandfather went around the pyre, first from
right to left, them from left to right, in order so to
obscure his tracks that the deceased would not be
able to follow him. Then, stepping away from the
pyre towards the houses, he drew with his stick a
line in the snow, jumped across it, and shook him­
self. The others followed his example. The line
was supposed to represent a river which separated
the village from the burning-place. All these
actions are identical with episodes in the tales of
the ' magic flight'. After being taken out of the
house, the deceased is apparently regarded as a
spirit hostile to the living.” 1
Often the bearers of a corpse, before they convey
the body to the grave or pyre, walk or run with it at
full speed round the house, in order to confuse the
spirit of the dead, and thus to prevent him from
returning to his old dwelling. Thus, for example, in
Siam the bearers carry the coffin thrice round the
house, running at full speed, for they believe that
if they did not take this precaution, the spirit of
the dead would recall the road by which he had
passed, and would return during the night to play
some mischievous prank upon his family.2 In
1 Waldemar Jochelson, The Kor- (Leiden and New York, 1905), i. p.
yaks (Memoir of the American 112.
Museum of Natural History: The 2 “ Lettre de Mgr. Brugui&re,
Jesup North Pacific Expedition) ev$que de Capse, k M. Bousquet,
78 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 79
Minahassa, a district in the north of the island of
Celebes, before a corpse is carried to the grave, it is
borne thrice round the house where the death took
place. The bearers who carry it walk or run at a
quick pace, with comic gestures which excite the
amusement rather than the sorrow of the spectators.
The corpse is seated on a chair placed on the bier,
and if the deceased was a mother one of her daugh­
ters will sit on the bier with bells fastened to her
body which jingle with the movements of the bier.
The jingle of the bells may be intended to hasten the
departure of the mother’s ghost to the spirit land.x
Among some of the Indians of Bolivia, when a
death has taken place in a house, it is customary to
shift the door to the other side of the house in order
that the returning ghost may not be able to find it,
and to effect an entrance into the dwelling.2 A
similar precaution to baffle a returning ghost is
reported from various parts of Africa. After a
death has taken place, and the body has been
buried, the Barundi of Tanganyika adopt various
precautions to prevent the return of the dreaded
ghost. In the hut where the death occurred they
shift the entrance to the other side of the hut, renew
vicaire-general d’Aire ” , in Annales Graafland, De Minahassa (Rotter-
de la Propagation de la Poi,v. (1831) dam, 1867), i. p. 331.
p. 174, C f.Mgr, Pallegoix, Descrip­
tion du royaume Thai ou Siam 2 Exploraciones y ?ioticias hidro*
(Paris, 1854), p. 245, and E. Young, graficas de los Pios del Norte de
The Kingdom of the Yellow Robe, Bolivia: Segunda Parte (La Paz,
p. 246. 1890), p. 20. Cf. Chr. Nusser-Asport,
1 “ Een blik op de Minahassa ” , “ Padre Armentias Reise in den
in Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch- Bolivianischen Provinz Caupolican ” ,
Indie, 1845, Part IV, p. 330; N. in Globus, lx. (1891) p. 120.
the hearthstone, and move the place of the bed and
all the other furniture in the hut, all no doubt to
deceive the ghost so that even if he returned to the
hut he could not recognize his old dwelling.1 A
similar precaution taken by some of the Kafirs of
South Africa is reported by Mr. Dudley Kidd. He
says : “ Another strange case was told me. At the
funeral of a small child the people buried the blankets
and ornaments used by the child, and then went and
fetched the door of the hut in which the baby had
lived. This also they buried, substituting a new
door for the old one ; they said they did so to bam­
boozle the spirit of the baby. When it came wander­
ing round at night it would find a new door on the
hut, and would think it had made a mistake ; where­
upon it would wander about until it found the old
familiar door in the earth, and it would then settle
down contentedly, and not trouble the people in the
kraal/ ’2
A common, almost a world-wide way of deceiving
a ghost, is to carry his body out of the house, not by
the door, but through a special opening in a wall of
the house, which is immediately afterwards closed
up. The belief seems to be that the returning ghost
can enter his old home only through the opening by
which his body was carried out, so that when he
arrives at the opening and finds it blocked up he is
puzzled, and being unable to find the door he cannot
enter the house. A custom of this kind has been
1 H. Meyer, Die Barundi, p.
114.
80 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
2 Dudley Kidd, The Essential
Kafir (London, 1904), p 251.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 8x
reported from many parts of the world, both in
ancient and modern times, and the explanation of it
which has just been given is assigned for it by many
of the peoples who practise it. But sometimes the
true original reason is forgotten and a mistaken
reason substituted for it. In the east, where the
houses are often raised above the ground on piles,
the corpse is often passed through a hole in the floor
instead of through a hole in the wall, but the inten­
tion is the same. Sometimes it is not all the dead
who are thus carried out, but only the remains of
those whose ghosts are specially dreaded, particularly
the corpses of women who have died in childbed.
We will now take examples of this curious custom,
arranging them so as to illustrate the geographical
diffusion of the practice. We have already seen
that the custom obtains in Siam, for the purpose of
excluding the ghost of the dead from the house.1
In Laos, a province of Siam, it is especially the
bodies of women dying in childbed which are thus
taken out of the house by a special opening; in their
case the corpse is taken out through a hole in the floor,
and not in the wall of the house.2 The people of
1 See above, Fear of the Dead in
Primitive Religion, vol. ii. p. 102,
and for the authorities see Brugui£re
in Annales de VAssociation de la
Propagation de la Foi, v. (Lyons and
Paris, 1831) p. 180 ; Mgr. Pailegoix,
Description du royaume Thai ou
Siam (Paris, 1854), p. 245; Sir John
Bowring, The Kingdom and People
of Siam (London, 1857), i. 122 ; E.
Young, The Kingdom of the Yellow
Robe, p. 246. Mr. P. A. Thomson
thinks that the custom is observed
from a fear that if the corpse were not
carried through a special opening the
spirit of the dead would refuse to go
out through the door and so would
remain in the house. See P. A.
Thomson, Lotus Land (London,
1906), p. 136. This explanation
appears to be erroneous. Why
should a dead man refuse to go out
by the door which he has gone out
so often in his lifetime ?
2 Carl Bock, Temples and Ele­
phants (London, 1884), p. 262.
VO L. I ll G
82 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Annam, which borders on Siam, sometimes observe
a similar custom. The writer who reports it says
that the Annamites resort to every kind of device
to prevent the spirits of the dead from returning to
the house. For this purpose the funeral procession
follows a roundabout way to the tomb, thinking so
to deceive the spirit, and to complete his confusion
the bearers of the bier turn it about several times.
Or they take the corpse out of the house, not by the
door, but by a special opening, sometimes breaking
a hole in a wall of the house for the purpose.1 The
Moif, a primitive race who inhabit the mountainous
region of Indo-China, from China on the north to
Cambodia on the south, observe a similar custom for
a similar reason. The writer who reports it says
that among them, when a death has taken place,
“ the bearers take up the body, convey it rapidly
through every room in the house, and after wrapping
it in large palm leaves secure it to a stout bamboo
pole. The next matter is to get it out of the house
in such a way that it will never know the point of
exit. Otherwise the spirit will surely find its way
back and continue to haunt the living. Accordingly,
an opening is very carefully made in the thatched
walls or roof, so that the breach will close of itself
when the corpse has passed through.” 2 The Kachins
of Burma carry out the corpses of women dying
in childbed not through the door of the house but
through an opening made for the purpose in a wall
1 P. Giran, Magie et religion and its Primitive People, p. 170; id.
Annamites (Paris, 19x2), p. 393. Commandant Baudesson, Au pays
2 Captain Baudesson, Indo-China des superstitions et des rites, 127.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 83
or in the floor of the house. This they do to prevent
the return of her dangerous ghost, and for the same
purpose they resort to other devices, which we shall
have occasion to notice later on.1 We have already
seen that for a similar purpose the Shans of Burma
take out the corpse of a woman dying in childbed
through a hole in the wall of the house, and that the
Palaungs of Burma lower the corpses of such women
through a hole in the floor, always for the sake of
preventing the return of the much-dreaded ghost.®
In China it seems to have been an ancient practice
to knock down part of the wall of a house for the
purpose of carrying out a corpse, for the custom is
alluded to in the L1-K1, one of the sacred books of
the Chinese.8 The custom is said to have been par­
ticularly observed for members of the royal family ;
when one of them died ancient usage required that
the corpse should be carried out of the palace, not
through the door, but through a breach made for the
purpose in the wall.4 At Mukden in Mongolia, the
body of a dead child “ must not be carried out of a
door or window, but through a new or disused open­
ing, in order that the evil spirit which causes the
disease may not enter. The belief is that the
Heavenly Dog, which eats the sun at the time of an
1 Ch. Gilhodes, “ Naissance et 3 The Sacred Books of China,
enfance chez les Katchins (Bir- translated by James Legge, Part IIL,
manie) ” , in Antkropos, vi. (1911) The Li-Ki, i.-x. (Oxford, 1885) pp.
pp. 872 sq. 144 sq. (Book II. Sect. I. Part II. 33)
2 The Fear of the Dead, vol. ii. {SacredBooks ofthe East,vol. xxvii.).
pp. 112 sq., referring to Mrs. Leslie 4 J. F. Lafitau, Mceurs des
Milne, The Shans at Home, p. 96, sauvages ameriquains (Paris, 1724),
and The Home of an Eastern Clan, ii. 401 sq., citing Le Comte, Nouv.
pp. 304 sq. memoires .de la Chine, vol. ii. p. 187.
84 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
eclipse, demands the bodies of children, and that if
they are denied to him he will bring certain calamity
on the household.” 1 This explanation of the custom
is apparently an afterthought which has displaced
the original motive, the fear of the ghost of the dead
child and a desire to prevent it from returning to
the house. In the extreme east of Siberia the primi­
tive Reindeer Koryaks do not carry out their dead
by the usual door, but under the edge of the tent-
cover, which is lifted up for the purpose.2 Among
the primitive Chukchee, neighbours of the Koryaks
on the north, a corpse is usually drawn up through a
hole in the roof or in the back of the tent, and then
all traces of the passage are removed, to prevent
the possible return of the dead.3 The Samoyeds of
Siberia carry out the dead, not through the door of
the hut, but through an opening made by lifting up
the roof or covering of the hut, for they think that,
were the corpse carried out by the door, the ghost of
the deceased would soon return to fetch away another
of the family.4
The custom with which we are here concerned
has been observed by various peoples of the Indian
Archipelago, for example, by the Gajos of Sumatra.5
1 Mrs. Bishop, Korea and Her American Museum of Natural His-
Neighbours (London, 1898), pp. 239 tory) (New York, 1904-1910J, p. 525.
sq. Cf. M. A. Czaplicka, Aboriginal
2 W. Jochelson, The Koryak (New Siberia (Oxford, 1914), pp. 146 sq,
York and Leiden, 1908), pp. n o sq. 4 P. S. Pallas, Reise durch
(The Jesup North Pacific Expedition: verschiedene Provinzen des russi*
Memoir of the American Museum of schen Reichs (St. Petersburg 1771-
Natural History). 1776), iii. 75 ; Middendorff, Reise in
8 W. Bogaras, The Chukchee (pub- den aussersten Norden und Osten
lication of the Jesup North Pacific Siberians, iv. 1464.
Expedition, vol. vii. Memoir of the 6 C. Snouck Hurgronje, Het Gajo-
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 85
Among the Kayans in the interior of Borneo, whose
houses are raised above the ground on piles, the
coffin containing the corpse is lowered to the ground
with rattans, either through the floor, planks being
taken up for the purpose, or under the eaves at the
side of the gallery. “ In this way they avoid carry­
ing it down the house-ladder ; and it seems to be
felt that this precaution renders it more difficult for
the ghost to find its way back to the hotise.” 1 Among
these Kayans it is especially the bodies of women
dying in childbed which are carried out by removing
boards in the back wall of the dwelling, for the
ghosts of these women are here, as usual, much
dreaded, and special precautions have to be taken
to prevent their return.2 The Toradyas of Central
Celebes usually pass a corpse out of the house by the
window, but if the window is too small to permit
of the passage of the body they break an opening
through a wall of the house, and so pass the corpse
through it. The dead body of a child is passed out
of a house through a hole in the floor.3 The Bugin-
ese of South Celebes never carry a corpse out of the
house by the ordinary door, but always break a
hole in one of the walls of the house for the pur­
pose.4 Among the Buginese and Macassars of South
land en zijne Bewoners (Batavia,
1903).p-313-
1 C. Hose and W. McDougall,
The Pagan Tribes of Borneo (Lon­
don, 1912), i, 35. Of. W. H. Furness,
The Home-life of Borneo Head­
hunters (Philadelphia, 1902), p. 52.
2 Dr. A, W, Nieuwenhuis, Quer
durch Borneo (Leiden, 1904), p. 91.
3 N. Adriani and A. C. Kruijt,
De Bare*e-sprekende Toradjds
van Midden-Celebes (s'Gravenhage,
1912),!. p. 236; ii. pp.97,99*
4 Adriani and Kruijt, op, cit. vol.
i. p. 356.
86 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Celebes there is in the king’s palace a window
reaching to the floor through which on his decease
the king’s body is carried out.1 That such a custom
is only a limitation to kings of a rule which once
applied to everybody becomes all the more probable,
when we learn that in the island of Saleijer, which
lies to the south of Celebes, each house has, besides
its ordinary windows, a large window in the form
of a door, through which, and not through the
ordinary entrance, every corpse is regularly removed
at death.2 In Bali, a small island to the north of
Java, when a queen of the island died, “ the body
was drawn out of a large aperture made in the wall
to the right-hand side of the door, in the absurd
opinion of cheating the devil, whom these islanders
believe to lie in wait in the ordinary passage.” 3
Probably the true original motive of the custom was
to prevent the dead queen’s ghost from coming back
to disturb her successor on the throne. In Fiji,
when a certain king died, the side of the house was
broken down to allow the body to be carried out,
though there were doorways wide enough for the
purpose close at hand.4 The missionary who records
the fact could not learn the reason of it, but here
1 B. F. Matthes, Bijdreigen tot de Mededeelingen van wege het Neder-
Ethnologie van Zuid'Celebes (The landsche Zendelinggenootschap, i.
Hague, 1875), P- 1 3 9 ; id., “ Over (1857) p. 291.
de adds of gewoonten der Makassa- 3 Prevost, quoted by John Craw-
ren en Boegineezen ” , Verslagen en ford, History of the Indian Archi-
Mededeelingen der Koninklijke Aka- pelago (Edinburgh, 1820), ii. 245. Cf.
demie van fVetensehappen, Afdeeling Adolf Bastian, Die Volker des ost-
Letterkunde, Derde Reeks, ii. (Am* lichen Asien, v. (Jena, 1869), P- 83.
sterdam, 1885) p. 142. 4 Thomas Williams, F iji and the
2W. M. Donselaar,a Aantekenin- Fijians, Second Edition (London,
gen over het eiland Saleijer ” , i860), i. 197.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 87
again we may suppose that the carrying out of the
royal body through a breach in the wall of the house
was a precaution to prevent the deceased monarch’s
ghost from coming back to haunt and trouble his
successor on the throne.
In India, among the Birhors, a primitive tribe of
Chota Nagpur, “ a woman dying within twenty-one
days of childbirth or a child dying within twenty-one
days of birth may never be admitted into the com­
munity of ancestor-spirits, as their spirits are always
dangerous. In their case, therefore, a new doorway
to the hut is opened to take their corpses to the grave.
These corpses are buried in a place apart from where
other corpses are buried.” 1 Speaking of the Hin­
doos, a French traveller in India of the eighteenth
century says that instead of carrying the corpse out
by the door they make an opening in the wall by
which they pass it out in a seated posture, and the
hole is closed up after the ceremony.2 Among
various Hindoo castes it is customary, if a death
occurs on an inauspicious day, to remove the corpse
from the house not through the door, but through a
temporary hole made in the wall.3 Another high
authority on India gives us more precise information
as to those unlucky days which necessitate this
change in the ordinary mode of burial. He tells us
that the Hindoos attribute to the moon a kind of
zodiac composed of twenty-seven constellations
1 S. C. Roy, The Birhors (Ranchi, p. 86.
1925), p. 266. 3 E. Thurston, Ethnographic
2 Sonnerat, Voyage aux Indes Notes in Southern India (Madras,
orientates et a Chine (Paris, 1782), i. 1906), p. 226.
88 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
which preside each over one of the twenty-seven
days of its periodic course. The five last days of
the moon are all deemed more or less disastrous.
Woe to the relatives of a person who dies on one of
these ill-omened days. The corpse of the unfor­
tunate must not be carried out through the door or
the window: it is absolutely necessary for the
purpose to make a hole in the wall of the house,
through which the corpse is passed out.1 In
Travancore the body of a dead rajah “ is taken out
of the palace through a breach in the wall, made
for the purpose, to avoid pollution of the gate, and
afterwards built up again so that the departed spirit
may not return through the gate to trouble the
survivors”.2 Another writer describes as follows
this mode of carrying out the corpse of a dead rajah
of Travancore. “ Before the body is taken from
the palace, a hole is made in the wall of the compart­
ment where it rested, and through this the corpse
is conveyed outside. This is a custom even with
the Sudras, the reigning family of Travancore being
Kshatrias. What the exact superstition, or idea, is,
I am not in a position to say, but I fancy that there
is a belief that if the corpse is conveyed through the
door, other deaths will immediately follow.” 3 We
may suppose that such a death would be ascribed to
the maleficent influence of the deceased rajah’s ghost,
who might have effected an entrance into the palace
1Abb^ J. A. Dubois, Moeurs, Travancore (London, 1883), p. 137.
institutions et ceremonies des peuples 8 A. Butterworth, “ Royal Fami-
de Vlnde (Paris, 1825), ii. 225. lies in Travancore ” , in the Indian
2S. Mateer, Native Life in Antiquary, xxxi. (1902) p. 251.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 89
by the ordinary door. Among the Brahuis, a
Dravidian-speaking people of Baluchistan, if the
door of a house faces south they think that it will be
very unlucky to carry out a corpse for burial through
the door on the third or fourth day of the new moon.
Hence on any such day it is necessary to make a
breach in the wall of the house facing the door, for
the sake of carrying out through it the corpse of the
deceased.1 The Lepchas of Sikkim take a corpse
out of the house by a hole made in the floor. Their
houses are generally built on pillars or wooden posts.2
Among the Persians the custom of carrying out a
corpse through a breach in the wall of a house would
seem to be very ancient, for in their sacred book, the
Zend-Avesta, it is prescribed that, when a death has
occurred, a breach shall be made in the wall and the
corpse carried out through it by two men, who have
first stripped off their clothes.3
Among the Sakalava and Antimerina of Mada­
gascar, when a sovereign or a prince of the royal
family dies within the enclosure of the king’s palace,
the corpse must be carried out of the palace, not by
the door, but by a breach made for the purpose in the
wall; the new sovereign could not pass through the
door that had been polluted by the passage of a dead
body.4 Here again we may suppose that as in
Celebes and Travancore the rule for the burial of
1 Denys Bray, Life-History of a Darmesteter (Oxford, 1880), p. 95
Brakui (London, 1913), p. 123. (Fargard, viii. 2, 10), Sacred Books
2 J. A. H. Louis, The Gates of of the East, vol. iv.
Thibet (Calcutta, 1894), p. 114. 4 Arnold van Gennep, Tabou et
3The Zend-Avesta,, Part I., The totemisme a Madagascar (Paris,
Vendiddd, translated by James 1904), p. 65, quoting Dr. Catat.
90 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
sovereigns is or has been formerly the rule for the
burial of their subjects likewise; kings are commonly
conservative of ancient usages.
In Africa the custom of carrying the dead out of
a house by an opening made specially for the purpose
is practised by many tribes in many parts of the
continent. Thus, for example, “the Ashantis, and
some others of the northern tribes, bury their dead
outside, and the body is taken out of the house
through a hole which is made in the wall, for a
corpse may not pass through any door. This
superstition appears to have been borrowed from
the Mohammedan peoples inland, for it is held by
the Fulas, Houssas, Dagombas, and others, and
also by the Mandingos and Jolloffs far to the north ;
while it is unknown to the southern Tshi-speaking
tribes.” 1 Among the Ewe-speaking peoples of
Togo the body of a priest may not be carried out
through the door of a house ; a hole is made in the
roof of the house, and the priest’s corpse is pushed
through it. The German missionary who reports
the custom thinks that this is done to prevent the
priest’s ghost from finding the door of the house and
so entering and troubling the survivors.2 Among
the Ibibios of Southern Nigeria “ a woman who dies
in giving birth to twins, or before the end of her year
of purification after such an event, may not be carried
to her last resting-place through the house-door, any
more than she may go out by it on leaving home to
1 A. B. Ellis, The Tschi-speaking 2 J. Spieth, Die Ewe-Stamme
Peoples of the Gold Coast of West (Berlin, 1906), p, 756,
Africa (London, 1887), pp. 239 sq,
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 9i
spend the prescribed twelve moons in the twin
women's town. Such sad exiles must pass through
a hole purposely broken in the wall, by which exit
the unfortunate babes are also carried forth. Fur­
ther, the body of a twin mother may on no account
be borne along a road by which ordinary people pass
to and fro, but only by a little path specially cut
through the bush to the place where it is to be flung.
The reason given for this prohibition is much the
same as that given in Cambodia for carrying a dead
body feet foremost, i.e. ‘ that it may not see the
house, in which event other sickness and other
deaths would result \ Ibibios say, too, that should
the ghost return and try to enter her former home
she would be unable to do so since the place by
which the body was carried forth has been blocked
up, and wraiths can only enter by the same way
through which their bodies were borne forth."1 The
general Nigerian custom ata burial isdescribed briefly
as follows, by another authority : “ Superstition
does not permit of the corpse being carried through
a door, and a hole for its egress has to be made in
the wall".1
2 Among the Bambara, a tribe in the
upper valley of the Niger, this mode of carrying a
corpse out of a house to burial appears to be reserved
for the bodies of social outcasts.3 Among the Mossi,
a tribe of the Western Sudan, a corpse is regularly
1 D. Amaury Talbot, Woman*s 1912), p. 234.
Mysteries of a Primitive People
(London, 1918), p. 215. 8 Abb6 Jos. Henry, L*Ame d*un
2 Lieut.-Col; A. F. Mockler- peuple africain; les Bambara
Ferryman, British Nigeria (London, (Miinster, 1910), p. 231.
93 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
carried out of the hut, not by the door, but through
an opening made for the purpose in the wall of the
hut.1 Among the Bubis of Fernando Po, when an
eminent person dies the corpse is carried out of the
house, not by the door, but by a hole broken through
that wall of the house near which the dying man
lay.1
2 Among the Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro
in East Africa, the dead body of a childless woman
is never carried out of the hut by the door, but
always through a breach made in the opposite wall
of the house. She is buried in the depth of the
forest; but never in a place which the natives
expect to cultivate. Apparently they think that
the corpse of a childless woman would render the
ground barren. It is safe therefore to infer that the
carrying out of her body through a special opening
in the hut is intended to prevent her dangerous
ghost from returning to blight her friends and the
land.3 Similarly among the Kavirondo, near neigh­
bours of the Wajagga, “ when a woman dies with­
out having borne a child, she is carried out of
the back of the house. A hole is made in the
wall and the corpse is ignominiously pushed
through the hole and carried some distance to
be buried, as it is considered a curse to die
without a child. If the woman has given birth
to a child, then her corpse is carried out through
1 P. E. Mangin, “ Les Mossi ” , in de Geographie, vii. (1886) p. 563.
Anthropos, ix. (1909) p. 729.
2 L. Janikowski, “ L ’lle de Fer- 3 B. Gutmann, “ Trauer und
nando-Poo, son etat actuel et ses Begr&bnis-Sitten der Wadschagga ” ,
habitants ” , in Bulletin de la Societe in Globus, lxxxix. (1906) p. 200.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 93
the front door and buried in the veranda of the
house.” 1
In describing a burial among the Ngoni (Angoni)
of Nyassaland a missionary tells how the bearers
carried out the corpse, not through the door of the
hut, but by a hole broken through the wall of the
hut, and then laid it in the grave. “ All the dishes,
pots, clothes, and articles of personal use belonging
to the deceased were buried with him. But no
metal goods were buried, whether hoes, or arrows,
or brass ornaments. It was feared that these would
give the ghost opportunity to return with anger to
hurt the friends.” 2 Among the Atonga of Nyassa­
land the dead are carried out of a hut, not by the
door, but by a special opening opposite the door,
which has been broken through the wall of the hut.3
Among the Thonga, a Bantu tribe of South-East
Africa, a corpse may not be carried out of a hut by
the door : it must be passed out through a hole
made in the wall of the hut on the right-hand side
if the deceased is a man, or presumably on the left-
hand side if the deceased be a woman. It is buried
in a grave either behind the hut or in the neighbour­
ing forest.4 A missionary who has described the
customs and religion of the Bantu tribes of South-
East Africa between Cape Colony and Natal tells
us that the dead body of a chief is never carried out
1 Rev. N. Stain, “ The Religious Werner, The Natives of British
Conceptions of the Kavirondo ” , in Central Africa (London, 1906), p.
Antkropos, v. (1910) p. 361. 161.
2 D. Fraser, Winning a Primitive 4 H. A. Junod, The Life of a
People (London, 1914), p. 158. South African Tribe, Second Edition
3 Rev. A. C. MacAlpine, in A. (London, 1927), i. 13S.
94 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
of the hut by the door, but always by a special open­
ing made for the purpose in the wall of the hut.1
Among the Basutos, another Bantu tribe of South
Africa, a corpse is carried out of the hut, not through
the door, but through an opening made in the wall
of the hut opposite to the door.1
2 So among the
Bechuanas, another Bantu tribe of South Africa, a
corpse is not carried out of the hut by the door, for
that is reserved for the use of the living. It is
carried out through an opening made in the fence,
and buried in the cattle kraal.3 Describing the
burial customs of the South African tribes among
which he laboured, the missionary Dr. Moffat says
that “ the body is not conveyed through the door
of the fore-yard or court connected with each
house, but an opening is made in the fence for that
purpose”.4 The Hottentots of South Africa, who
are not a Bantu tribe, practise a similar custom.
They carry a corpse out of a hut, not by the door,
but by an opening specially made for the purpose
in the wall of the hut.® According to the French
missionaries, Arbousset and Daumas, some of the
Bushmen observe a similar custom ; when a person
dies they wrap up his body in his ordinary attire,
1 Rev. Jas. Macdonald, Light in
Africa (London, 1890), p, 166. Cf.
Dudley Kidd, The Essential Kafir
(London, 1904), p. 247.
2 Rev. E. Casalis, The Basutos
(London, 1861), p. 202.
3 “ Extrait du Journal des Mis­
sions evangeliques ” , in Bulletin de
la Societe de Geographies xx. (1833)
p. 196. Cf. C. G. Andersson, Lake
Ngarnis or Explorations and Dis­
coveries, Second Edition (London,
1856), p. 446.
4 R. Moffat, Missionary Labours
a?id Scenes %
n Southern Africa
(London, 1842), p. 307.
5 P. Kolben, The Present State of
the Cape of Good Hope (London,
1731-1738), i. 316; Adolph Bastian,
Der Mensck in der Geschichte
(Leipzig, i860), vol. ii. pp. 322 sq.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 95
and carry it out of the hut, not by the door, but by
a large opening made in the wall.1
A like burial custom has been observed for like
reasons by many of the aboriginal inhabitants of
America, both Eskimo and Indian. Thus, for
example, among the Greenlanders “ if a person dies
in the house, his body must not be carried through
the ordinary entry of it, but conveyed out at the
window ; and if he dies in a tent, he is brought out
at the back part of it. At the funeral, a woman
lights a stick in the fire, brandishing the same and
saying, piklerrukpok, that is, Here is no more to be
got.” 1
2 Among the Eskimos of Hudson Bay, when
a death has taken place in a snow house {igloo) or a
tent the relatives try to bury it before the sun has
risen. But if the sun has risen while the corpse is
still in the house or tent the body must be kept there
for three or five days. At the end of that time the
corpse must be carried out, not by the door, but by
a special opening made in the wall of the house or
by raising a corner of the tent.3 With regard to
the Eskimos of the Ungava District in the Hudson
Bay Territory we are told that “ the nearest relatives
on approach of death remove the invalid to the out­
side of the house, for if he should die within he must
not be carried out of the door but through a hole cut
in the side wall, and it must then be carefully closed
1 T. Arbousset and F. Daumas,
Relation d’un voyage d'exploration
(Paris, 1842), pp. 502 sq.
2 Hans Egede, Description of
Greenland, Second Edition (London,
1818), pp. 152 sq. Cf. David
Crantz, History of Greenland
(London, 1767) i. 237.
3 Mgr. A. Turquetil, “ Notes sur
les Esquimaux de Baie Hudson ”, in
Anthropos, xxi. (1926) p. 432.
to prevent the spirit of the person from returning
To the same effect Rink, who seems to have spent
much of his time in Greenland, in speaking of the
Eskimos in general, says, “ the bodies of those who
died in a house were carried out through a window, or
if in a tent, underneath the back part.” 1
2 When
C. F. Hall was living with the Eskimos of Cumber­
land Inlet, a young child died in a snow house
(igloo). In order to bury the body a passage was
cut through the wall of the snow house, and through
this opening the little body was carried by its mother,
accompanied or followed by Hall and the other
mourners.3 Among the Eskimos of Hudson Strait,
with whom Captain G. F. Lyon wintered, “ the
dead are in most cases carried through the window,
in preference to the door of a snow hut, which, after
the three days of mourning have expired, is for­
saken, at least by the family of which the deceased
had formed a part ”.4
Among the Unalit Eskimos of Bering Strait a
corpse is usually removed from the house by being
raised with cords through the smoke-hole in the
roof; but is never passed through the doorway.
Should the smoke-hole be too small to allow of the
passage of the corpse, an opening is made in the rear
1 Lucien M. Turner, “ Ethnology Second Arctic Expedition made by
of the Ungava District, Hudson Bay Charles F . Hall (Washington, 1879),
Territory ” , in Eleventh Annual p. 265.
Report of the Bureau of Ethnology 4 Capt. G. F. Lyon, The Private
(Washington, 1894) p. 191. Journal of Captain G. F. Lyon, of
2 H. J. Rink, Tales of the Eskimo H.M.S. Hecla> during the recent
(London, 1875), P* 55* voyages of discovery under Captain
3 C. F. Hall, Narrative of the Parry (London, 1824), p. 369.
96 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 97
of the house, and the body is carried through it.1
Among the Tuski, an aboriginal but not Indian tribe
of Alaska, “those who die a natural death are carried
out through a hole cut in the back of the hut or
yardng. This is immediately closed up, that the
spirit of the dead man may not find his way back.” 1
2
Among the Tlingit Indians of Alaska, when a chief
dies his body is taken out of the house by an opening
made in the back wall of the dwelling.3 Among
the Haida Indians of Queen Charlotte Island, British
Columbia, when a chief died his body was carried
out to the grave through an opening made for the
purpose in a wall of the house. His near relatives
and friends cut their hair short and put pitch on their
faces in sign of mourning. If he was a great chief
all the people of the town sometimes followed their
example.4 Among the Kwakiutl Indians of British
Columbia a corpse “ must not be taken out of the
door, else other inmates of the house would be sure
to die soon. Either a hole is made in one of the
walls, through which the body is carried out, or it
is lifted through the roof. It is placed behind the
house to be put into the box that is to serve as a
coffin. If it were placed in the coffin inside the
house, the souls of the other inmates would enter
1 E. W. Nelson, 4
4The Eskimo
about Bering Strait ” , in the
Eighteenth Annual Report of the
Bureau of American Ethnology
(1896-1897), Part I. (Washington,
1899) P. 310.
2 W. H. Dali, Alaska and its
Resources (London, 1871), p. 382.
VOL. I ll
8 Aurel Krause, Die Tlinkit-
Indianer (Jena, 1885), p. 225.
4 J. R. Swanton, Contributions to
the Ethnology of the Haida (The
Jesup North Pacific Expedition:
Memoir of the American Museum of
National History) (Leiden and New
York, 1905), pp. 52, 54.
H
the coffin too, and then all would die soon."1 Among
the Lkungen Indians, in the south-east part of Van­
couver Island, after a death the corpse is at once
carried out of the house through an opening which
has been made by removing some boards of the back
wall of the house. They think that the ghost would
kill every one in the house if the corpse were allowed
to remain in it.2
Concerning some of the Indians of Canada near
the St. Lawrence River, we are told by a Jesuit
missionary of the seventeenth century that among
them a corpse was never carried out of a hut by the
door, but always through a hole made in a wall of
the hut by removing some of the bark.4 The Ojeb-
way Indians greatly fear the spirits of the lately
deceased. Hence they bury their dead as soon as
possible. They do not carry them out of the door­
way, but cut a hole in the bark of the lodge and
thrust the body out, for they fear that if the dead
person remained in the house his spirit would carry
off the souls of the survivors, and they would die.
Hence they not only pull down the whole house and
put out the fire, but are very careful not even to
light the new fire in the new house with a spark or
sticks from the old one. A new fire and new wood
must be taken. Nor do they build the new lodge
1 Franz Boas, £
<Notes on the Committee on the North-Western
Kwakiutl ” , in Eleventh Report on Tribes of Canada (Report of the
the North-Western Tribes of Canada British Association for 1890), p. 23.
(Report of the British Association
for 1890), Sixth Report on the 3 Relation desJesuites, 1633, p. 11;
Indians of British Columbia, p. 574. id., 1634, p. 23 (Canadian reprint,
2 Franz Boas, Sixth Report of the Quebec, 1858).
98 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
II DECEIVING THE GHOST 99
on the old spot, but choose another place as far from
it as possible.1
Among the Catios Indians of Columbia in South
America a corpse may not be carried out of the
house by the usual house-ladder, lest the spirit of
the deceased should find his way back to the house ;
but the missionaries who report the custom and the
reason for it do not inform us through what part
of the hut a corpse is passed out.2 The custom of
blocking up the entrance to a hut for the purpose of
excluding the returning ghost of a recently deceased
person has been well described by the missionary,
Mr. Grubb, in a particular case among the Lengua
Indians of Paraguay. After speaking of the death
of an old man among these Indians he says, “ The
people had built their shelters on the forest side of
my hut, but, although they had promised not to
destroy the village nor vacate it, they had taken the
precaution to pull down their booths and re-erect
them on the farther side of my hut, so that, "whatever
happened, I, at any rate, should be between them
and the ghost, and therefore be the first to suffer.
The witch-doctor, the most intelligent man of the
party, had, a week or two previously, under strong
persuasion from me, erected for himself quite a
superior kind of hut, with a small opening for a
door. His wife and family, however, although they
did not remove the hut, made very considerable
1 J. G. Kohl, Kitcki-Gami : Wan- “ Religion und soziale Verhiiltnisse
derings round Lake Superior (Lon- der Catios-Indianer in Kolumbien ” ,
don, i860), p. 106 n. in Archiv fu r Religio?iswi$senschaft
2 Joseph and Maria Schilling, (Leipzig), xxiii. (1925) p. 296.
ioo THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
alterations to it, the chief of which was that they
securely blocked up the doorway, making it appear
like a part of the wall, and opened a small gap
on the opposite side instead. As the old wizard
afterwards explained to me, this was done on pur­
pose to puzzle the ghost. He, while in the body,
knew the house well, but the alterations were
so considerable that it was supposed his ghost
would not recognize it, and would be especially
nonplussed when it made for the entrance to find
a solid wall.” 1
In Europe the custom of carrying the dead out
of the house by a special opening which is then
closed to prevent their ghosts from re-entering the
dwelling has been observed by several peoples at
various times, both ancient and modern. Thus
among the Cheremiss of Russia, “ old custom re­
quired that the corpse should not be carried out
by the door but through a breach in the north wall,
where there is usually a sash window. But the
custom has long been obsolete, even among the
heathen, and only very old people speak of it. They
explain it as follows : to carry it out by the door
would be to show the A syren (the dead man) the
right way into the house, whereas a breach in the
wooden wall is immediately closed by replacing the
beams in position, and thus the Asyrhn would in
vain seek for an entrance.” 2 With regard to the
1 W. B. Grubb, An Unknown Glauben vom Jenseits und den
People in an Unknown Land, pp. Todtencultus der Tscheremissen ” ,
165 sq. Internationales Archiv fttr Ethno-
2 S, K. Kusnezow, “ t)ber den graphie, ix, (1896) p, 157.
II DECEIVING THE GHOST IOI
Russian custom we are told that “ the corpse was
often carried out of a house through a window, or
through a hole made for the purpose, and the custom
is still kept up in many parts ”.1 In Denmark corpses
used to be carried out of the house, not through the
door, but through an opening made in the wall for
the purpose, especially in the wall of the principal
room. After the corpse had been carried through,
the opening was immediately bricked up before the
mourners returned from the grave. Such customs
used to be common among the Danish peasantry :
each peasant house commonly had its corpse-door
of this sort, which could be distinguished from the
outside at the gable end of the house. The practice
is now nearly, if not totally, extinct.2 “ In Sweden
it is said that all the gates along the road through
which a corpse has been carried to the churchyard
are hung upside down, so that they open the opposite
way. And if a ghost has begun to haunt a house,
it is generally sufficient to alter the position of the
door, then he has to remain outside. It is impossible
for him to find his way in again.” 3 It was an old
Norse rule that a corpse might not be carried out of
the house by the door which was used by the living ;
hence a hole was made in the wall at the back of the
dead man's head and he was taken out through it
backwards, or a hole was dug in the ground under
the south wall and the body was drawn out through
1 W. R. S. Ralston, The Songs of Corpse-Door : a Danish Survival ” ,
the Russian People (London, 1872), in Folk-Lore, xviii. (1907) pp. 364-
p. 318. 375-
2 Dr. H. F. Feilberg, “ The 3 Dr. Feilberg, op. cit. p. 369.
102 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH. II
it.1 The practice is repeatedly alluded to in the old
Norse sagas.1
2 Old German law required that the
corpses of criminals and suicides should be taken out
of a house through a hole under the threshold.3 In
the Highlands of Scotland the corpses of suicides
used to be carried out of the house not through the
door but through an opening made between the
thatched roof and the top of the wall. They were
buried, along with the bodies of unbaptized children,
outside the common churchyard.4 In Mecklen­
burg “ it is a law regulating the return of the dead
that they are compelled to return by the same way
by which the corpse was removed from the house.
In the villages of Picher, Bresegard, and others the
people used to have moveable thresholds at the
house-doors, which, being fitted into the door-posts,
could be shoved up. The corpse was then carried
out of the house under the threshold, and therefore
could not return over it.” 5 In Perche, a province
of France, the bodies of still-born children are not
taken out by the door, but are passed through a
window for burial. The reason for the custom is
not explained, but probably the original motive
was to prevent the return of their unhappy spirits
to the house.6
1 W. Weinhold, Altnordisches
Leben (Berlin, 1856), p. 476.
2 Dr. Feilberg, loc, cit.
3 J. Grimm, Deutsche Rechtsalter-
thiimer3 (Gottingen, 1881), pp. 726
sq.
4 J. G. Campbell, Superstitions of
the Highlands and Islands of Scot-
land (Glasgow, 1900), p. 242.
5 Karl Bartsch, Sagen, Mdrcken,
und Gebrduche aus Meklenburg
(Vienna, 1879-1880), ii. § 358.
6 F. Chapiseau, Le Folk-lore de la
Beauce et du Perche (Paris, 1902), i.
164.
CHAPTER III
DANGEROUS GHOSTS
I. Ghosts of the Slain
H i t h e r t o I have spoken for the most part of the
spirits of the dead in general, as if all these spirits
were equally feared by primitive man. That is by
no means the case. He distinguishes sharply be­
tween ghosts and ghosts, particularly according to
the death they died, and some of them he deems
much more dangerous than others and takes special
precautions against them. In general the spirits of
all who have died a violent death are classed among
the dangerous ghosts. Their span of life has been
cut prematurely short: they feel that they have
been wronged, and seek to avenge themselves on
the authors of their death if they can discover them.
And since, in their wrath, they do not always dis­
criminate nicely between the innocent and the guilty,
they may become a danger, not only to individuals,
but to a whole community. Among these the
spirits of the slain are the most commonly feared,
103
104 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
and with these we shall begin our survey of danger­
ous ghosts.1
The Arunta of Central Australia, like many
other savage tribes, think that a death among them
is often caused by the nefarious arts of a sorcerer in
a neighbouring tribe, and they send out a party of
men to take vengeance by killing the supposed cul­
prit. When they have accomplished their mission
of blood by taking the life of the reputed sorcerer,
the avengers return to their own camp, which may
be a long way distant. On the whole of the re­
turn journey they think they are followed by the
spirit of the man whom they have murdered. It
takes the form of a little bird called the chichurkna,
and may be heard crying like a child in the distance
as it flies. If any of the slayers should fail to hear
its cry, he would become paralysed in his right arm
and shoulder. At night-time especially, when the
bird is flying over the camp, the slayers have to lie
awake and keep the right arm and shoulder care­
fully hidden, lest the bird should look down upon
and harm them. When once they have heard its
cry their minds are at ease, because the spirit of the
dead then recognizes that he has been detected, and
can therefore do no mischief. On their return to
their friends, as soon as they come in sight of the
main camp, they begin to perform an excited war-
dance, approaching in the form of a square and
1 With what follows compare The 113 sqq. Much of the evidence cited
Golden Bough : Taboo andthe Perils in these passages is here repeated,
of the Soul, pp. 177 sqq. ; Psyche's with the addition of some fresh
Task (The Devil's Advocate), pp. examples.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 10
5
moving their shields as if to ward off something
which was being thrown at them. This action is
intended to repel the angry spirit of the dead man,
who is striving to attack them. Next, the men
who did the deed of blood separate themselves from
the others, and forming a line, with spears at rest
and shields held out in front, stand silent and motion­
less like statues. A number of old women now
approach with a sort of exulting skip and strike
the shields of the man-slayers with fighting-clubs
till they ring again. They are followed by men
who smite the shields with boomerangs. This
striking of the shields is supposed to be a very
effective way of frightening away the spirit of the
dead man. The natives listen anxiously to the
sounds emitted by the shields when they are struck ;
for if any man’s shield gives forth a hollow sound
under the blow, that man will not live long, but if it
rings sharp and clear, he is safe. For some days
after their return the slayers will not speak of what
they have done, and continue to paint themselves
all over with powdered charcoal, and to decorate
their foreheads and noses with green twigs. Finally,
they paint their bodies and faces with bright colours,
and become free to talk about the affair; but still of
nights they must lie awake listening for the plaintive
cry of the bird in which they fancy they hear the
voice of their victim.1
The Fijians used to bury the sick and aged alive,
1 Spencer and Gillen, Native 493-495 ; idNorthern Tribes of
Tribes of Central Australia, pp. Central Australia, pp. 563-56S.
and having done so they always made a great up­
roar with bamboos, shell-trumpets and so forth in
order to scare away the spirits of the buried people
and prevent them from returning to their homes ;
and by way of removing any temptation to hover
about their former abodes they dismantled the
houses of the dead and hung them with everything
that in their eyes seemed most repulsive.1 When
the cannibal Melanesians of the Bismarck Archi­
pelago have eaten a human body, they shout, blow
horns, shake spears and beat the bushes for the
purpose of driving away the ghost of the man or
woman whose flesh has just furnished the banquet.
Before doing so they considerately offer to their
victim’s ghost a portion of his or her own flesh.1
2
When a Maori warrior had slain his foe in combat,
he tasted his blood, believing that this preserved
him from the avenging spirit (atud) of his victim ;
for they imagined that “ the moment a slayer had
tasted the blood of the slain, the dead man became
a part of his being and placed him under the pro­
tection of the atua or guardian spirit of the de­
ceased ”.3 In the Pelew Islands the relations of a
man whose head has been taken by enemies are
secluded and purified for fear of the ghost, which is
angry with them; after the purification the ghost
jo6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
1 John Jackson, in J. E. Erskine’s
Journal of a Cruise among the
Islands of the Western Pacific
(London, 1853), p. 477.
2 George Brown, D.D., Mela­
nesians and Polynesians (London,
1910), pp. 142, 145.
8 J. Dumont D’Urville, Voyage
autour du monde et a la recherche
de la Perouse (Paris, 1832-1833), iii.
305*
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 107
goes away to the land of the enemy and pursues his
murderer.1
Among the Kiwai of British New Guinea, “ the
warrior who has killed is, as only might be expected,
in continual danger from the ghosts of those he has
slain. Consequently he must for a month refrain
from intercourse with women and eat no crabs,
crocodile, sago, or pig. If he did, the ghost would
enter into his blood and he would certainly die. As
a further precaution against the power of ghosts,
food and a bowl of gamada are set aside and flung
away with a warning to the dead to return to their
own place.” 2 Among the tribes at the mouth of
the Wanigela River, in New Guinea, “a man who
has taken life is considered to be impure until he
has undergone certain ceremonies : as soon as
possible after the deed he cleanses himself and his
weapon. This satisfactorily accomplished, he re­
pairs to his village and seats himself on logs of
sacrificial staging. No one approaches him or takes
any notice whatever of him. A house is pre­
pared for him which is put in charge of two or
three small boys as servants. He may eat only
toasted bananas, and only the centre portion of them
—the ends being thrown away. On the third day
of his seclusion a small feast is prepared by his
friends, who also fashion some new perineal beads
for him. This is called iviporo. The next day the
man dons all his best ornaments and badges for
1 J. Kubary, Die socialen Ein- 2 W. N. Beaver, Unexplored New
richtungen der Pelauer (Berlin, Guinea (London, 1920), p. 174.
1885), pp. 126 sq.
taking life, and sallies forth fully armed and parades
the village. The next day a hunt is organized, and
a kangaroo selected from the game captured. It is
cut open and the spleen and liver rubbed over the
back of the man. He then walks solemnly down to
the nearest water, and standing straddle-legs in it
washes himself. All the young untried warriors
swim between his legs. This is supposed to impart
courage and strength to them. The following day,
at early dawn, he dashes out of his house, fully
armed, and calls aloud the name of his victim.
Having satisfied himself that he has thoroughly
scared the ghost of the dead man, he returns to his
house. The beating of flooring-boards and the
lighting of fires is also a certain method of scaring
the ghost. A day later his purification is finished.
He can then enter his wife’s house.” 1
In the Namau district of British New Guinea, on
returning to their village after a raid, warriors who
had slain their enemies took great precautions to
drive away the vengeful ghosts of their enemies,
which had followed them to the village. These pre­
cautions were often witnessed by a missionary who
has graphically described them as follows : “ In
Namau the spirits of enemy warriors were regarded
very seriously, and dealt with very systematically
on the night immediately after a fight. They were
supposed to follow their dead bodies back to the
village of the victors, and there conceal themselves
1 R. E. Guise, “ On the Tribes Journal of the Royal Anthropo-
inhabiting the Mouth of the Wani- logical Institute, xxviii. (1899) pp.
gela River, New Guinea ” , in the 2 13 ^ .
io8 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
in GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 109
in every possible nook and cranny to await a favour­
able opportunity to torture the men who had over­
thrown them in the fight. As soon as night had set
in the old men provided themselves with coconut-
palm flares and torches, paraded the village from
end to end, pushed their flares into every possible
hiding-place of a spirit until they were satisfied that
they had rid their village of their presence. I have
a dim recollection that this practice was observed
by the Ibi tribes in the long ago, but I have no data
by me to confirm it. Whereas I saw the driving-
out of the spirits in the Namau villages, as described
above, so frequently that, alas, I cannot forget it.” 1
One such ceremony witnessed by him in a village
of the Purari delta is described by the same observer
as follows : “ Darkness I have said ; but there was
no darkness in the village that night other than the
darkness of heathenism, and it was terrible indeed.
Fires were kindled on every open space ; torches of
coconut palms were lit and carried into every dark
recess of the village ; drums were beaten ; conch
shells were blown ; everybody yelled who had a
yell left; all this was done to drive away the spirits
of the victims from the village.” 1
2
Among the Orokaiva, in the east of British New
Guinea, a native who has slain an enemy has to
perform a number of curious rites. Among other
things he has to climb into a tree and submit to be
severely bitten by a vicious species of green ant
1 J. H. Holmes, In Primitive New Guinea (London, 1924), p. 184,
2 J. H. Holmes, op. cit* p. 174.
n o THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
which haunts its branches. Also a coconut was
broken over his head, and he was soused with its
milk. Mr. Williams, who reports these and the
other observances and restrictions imposed upon a
man-slayer among the Orokaiva, was informed
directly that they are meant to drive away the
asisi, or spirit, of the slain man.1
Among the Kai of Northern New Guinea, when
a party of warriors has stormed a village, and killed
many of the inmates, they beat a hasty retreat, in
order to reach their own, or a friendly village, before
nightfall. Their reason for haste is the fear of being
overtaken in the darkness by the ghosts of their
slaughtered foes, who, powerless by day, are very
dangerous and terrible by night. Restlessly through
the hours of darkness these unquiet spirits follow
like sleuth-hounds in the tracks of their retreating
enemies, eager to come up with them and by contact
with the bloodstained weapons of their slayers to
recover the spiritual substance which they have lost.
Not till they have done so can they find rest and
peace. That is why the victors are careful not at
first to bring back their weapons into the village,
but to hide them somewhere in the bushes at a safe
distance. There they leave them for some days
until the baffled ghosts may be supposed to have
given up the chase and returned, sad and angry, to
their mangled bodies in the charred ruins of their
old home. The first night after the return of the
warriors is always the most anxious tim e; all the
1 F. E. Williams, Orokaiva Society (London, 1930), p. 175.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN i ii
villagers are then on the alert for fear of the ghosts ;
but if the night passes quietly, their terror gradu­
ally subsides and gives place to the dread of their
surviving enemies. As the victors in a raid are
supposed to have more or less of the soul-stuff
or spiritual essence of their slain foes adhering to
their persons, none of their friends will venture to
touch them for some time after their return to the
village. Everybody avoids them and goes carefully
out of their way, and any ache or ailment w'hich he
or she may experience during this time is set down
to indirect contact with one of the slayers.1 Simi­
larly the Yabim of Northern New Guinea dread the
spirit of a murdered man because he is believed to
haunt his murderer and to do him a mischief. Hence
they drive away such a dangerous ghost with shouts
and the beating of drums ; and by way of facilitat­
ing his departure they launch a model of a canoe,
laden with taro and tobacco, in order to transport
him with all comfort to the land of souls.1
2 When
the Bukaua of Northern New Guinea have won a
victory over their foes, and have returned home,
they kindle a fire in the middle of the village and
hurl blazing brands in the direction of the battle­
field, while at the same time they make an ear-
splitting din, to keep at bay the angry spirits of the
slain.3 Similarly in the Doreh district of Dutch New
1 Ch. Keysser, “ Aus dem Leben Kaiser Wilhelms-Land und den
der Kaileute ” , in R. Neuhauss, Bismarck-Arelliptic 1S97, p. 94.
Deutsch Neu Guinea, iii. (Berlin, 3 S. Lehner, “ Bakaua ” , in R.
1911) pp. 64 sg., 147 sg.j 132. Neuhauss, Deutsch Neu Guinea, iii.
2 K. Vetter, in Nachrichten uber p. 444.
112 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Guinea, if a murder has taken place in the village,
the inhabitants assemble for several evenings in
succession and utter frightful yells to drive away
the ghost of the victim in case he should be minded
to hang about the village.1 In Windessi, Dutch
New Guinea, when a party of head-hunters has been
successful, and they are nearing home, they announce
their approach and success by blowing on triton
shells. Their canoes are also decked with branches.
The faces of the men who have taken a head are
blackened with charcoal. If several have taken
part in killing the same victim, his head is divided
among them. They always time their arrival so
as to reach home in the early morning. They come
rowing to the village with a great noise, and the
women stand ready to dance in the verandahs of the
houses. The canoes row past the room sram or house
where the young men live, and as they pass the
murderers throw as many pointed sticks or bamboos
at the wall or roofas there were enemies killed. The
day is spent very quietly. Now and then they drum
or blow on the conch ; at other times they beat the
walls of the houses with loud shouts to drive away
the ghosts of the slain.2
In Timor, an island of the Indian Archipelago,
when a warlike expedition has returned in triumph
bringing the heads of the vanquished foe, the leader
of the expedition is forbidden by religion and custom
1 H. von Rosenberg, Der malay* in Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-
ische Archipel 1878), p.461. Land- en Volkenkunde, ad. (1890)
2 J. L. D. van der Roest, “ Uit het pp. 157 sqt
leven der Bevolkung van Windessi ” ,
to return at once to his own house. A special hut
is prepared for him, in which he has to reside for
two months, undergoing bodily and spiritual puri­
fication. During this time he may not go to his
wife nor feed himself; the food must be put in his
mouth by another person.1 That these observances
are dictated by fear of the ghosts of the slain seems
certain ; for from another account of the ceremonies
performed on the return of a successful head-hunter
in the same island we learn that sacrifices are
offered on this occasion to appease the soul of the
man whose head has been taken. The people think
that some misfortune would befall the victor were
such offering omitted. Moreover, a part of the
ceremony consists of a dance accompanied by a song
in which the death of the slain man is lamented and
his forgiveness is entreated. “ Be not angry ”, they
say, “ because your head is here with us ; had we
been less lucky, our heads might now have been
exposed in your village. We have offered the sacri­
fice to appease you. Your spirit may now rest and
leave us at peace. Why were you our enemy?
Would it not have been better that we should re­
main friends? Then your blood would not have
been spilt and your head would not have been cut
off.” 1
2
The Bare’e-speaking Toradyas ofCentral Celebes
1 S. Muller, Reizen en Onderzoe- Timor ” , in Verhandelingen van het
kingen in den Indischen Archipel Bataavisch genootschap van Kunsten
(Amsterdam, 1857), ii. 252. en Wetensckappen, xxxvi. (1872) pp.
2 J. S. G. Graamberg, “ Eene 208,21&sq.
maand in de binnenlanden van
VO L, III
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 113
I
are greatly concerned about the souls of men who
have been slain in battle. They appear to think
that men who have been killed in war instead of
dying by disease have not exhausted their vital
energy and that therefore their departed spirits are
more powerful than the common ruck of ghosts ;
and as on account of the unnatural manner of their
death they cannot be admitted into the land of souls
they continue to prowl about the earth, furious with
the foes who have cut them off untimely in the prime
of manhood, and demanding of their friends that
they shall wage war on the enemy and send forth
an expedition every year to kill some of them. If
the survivors pay no heed to this demand of the
bloodthirsty ghosts, they themselves are exposed to
the vengeance of these angry spirits, who pay out
their undutiful friends and relatives by visiting them
with sickness and death. Hence with the Toradyas
war is a sacred duty in which every member of the
community is bound to bear a p art; even women
and children, who cannot wage real war, must wage
mimic warfare at home by hacking with bamboo
swords at an old skull of the enemy, while with their
shrill voices they utter the war-whoop.1
In the Andaman Islands, if a man has killed
another in a fight between two villages or in a private
quarrel, he leaves his village and goes to live in the
jungle, where he must stay for some weeks, or even
months. His wife may attend him in his seclusion.
1 N. Adriani and Alb. C. Kruijt, De Bare'e-sprekende Toradjas van
Midden-Celebes, i. 285, 290 sg.
114 t h e f e a r of THE DEAD CH.
For several weeks the homicide must observe several
taboos. He may not handle a bow or arrow. He
may not feed himself or touch food with his hands,
but must be fed by his wife or a friend. He must
keep his neck and upper lip covered with red paint,
and must wear plumes of shredded Tetrathera wood
in his belt before and behind, and in his necklace at
the back of his neck. If he breaks any of these
taboos it is believed that the spirit of the man whom
he killed will make him ill. After this he undergoes
a kind of purification. His hands are first rubbed
with white clay, and then with red paint. He is
then rid of the taboos; he may handle bows and
arrows, and feed himself with his own hands ; but
he retains the plumes of shredded wood for a year
of so.1
Among the Kachins of Burma, when a man has
committed a murder it is necessary for him to take
immediate precautions against the spirit of his
victim, which will become a malignant nat, and will
assuredly follow the murderer and wreak its venge­
ance on him. Because of this danger he may not
enter his or any other village until a certain ceremony
has been performed. Near the sacred grove (num-
shang) of the village the sacred kumbang grass is
planted in the ground. Next to it, in the direction
of the village, a wooden rice-pounder is laid ; next
to the pounder, one of the smooth stones used for
sharpening dahs (large knives) ; and finally a small
fire. A sacrifice must be offered to the spirit of the
1 A. R. Brown, The Andaman Islanders, pp. 133, 164.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 115
murdered man, and the most effective is that of a
dog; but if a dog is not available and the matter
is urgent, a fowl or a pig will answer the purpose.
The sacrificial animal is killed over the pounder,
and the murderer steps over the kumbang grass, the
pounder, the sacrificed animal, the stone and the
fire. Having done so, he bends back the grass in
the direction away from the pounder, and he may
then enter the village and his home, both of them
now being considered secure from the unpleasant
attentions of the murdered man’s ghost. Under no
circumstances will anybody use or even touch the
pounder, stone, or, if a pig or fowl has been sacri­
ficed, the flesh of the sacrificed animal. These
remain lying in the sacred grove.1
The Lushai of North-Eastern India believe that
if a man kills an enemy the ghost of his victim will
haunt him and he will go mad, unless he performs a
certain ceremony which will make him master of
the dead man’s soul in the other world. The cere­
mony includes the sacrifice of an animal, whether a
goat, a pig, or a mithran.1
2
Among the Lakhers, a tribe of head-hunters in
the same region, as soon as the warriors have re­
turned from a successful raid, all those who have
been lucky enough to take an enemy’s head must
perform a certain ceremony called the la, the object
1 W. J. S. Carrapiett, The Kachin of the Royal Anthropological Insti-
Tribes of Burma (Rangoon, 1929), tute} xxxix. (1909) p. 380; id., The
pp. 29, 69. Lushei Kuki Clans (London, 1912),
2 Lieut.-Col, J. Shakespear, “ The pp. 78 sq.
Kuki-Lushai clans ” , in the Journal
i i 6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 117
of which is twofold : first to render the spirit of the
slain, which is called saw, harmless to his slayer,
and secondly to ensure that the spirit of the slain
shall be the slave of the slayer in the next world.
It is believed that unless the la ceremony is per­
formed over the heads of men killed in war, their
ghosts (saw) will render their slayers blind, lame, or
paralysed, and that if by any lucky chance a man
who has omitted to perform the la ceremony escapes
these evils, they will surely fall upon his children or
his grandchildren. Again, if the la ceremony is
not performed the spirit of the slain man will not
accompany his slayer to the spirit land as his slave,
but will go to a special abode of the dead where
dwell the spirits of all those who have died violent
deaths. The la ceremony varies somewhat from
village to village ; but it always includes a dance
round either the captured head or an artificial head
carved out of a gourd. On the night of the cere­
mony and all the next day dancing and singing con­
tinue. The following day is a holiday (aoK). No
work is done in the village, and no one leaves it.
The next day each man who has taken a head kills
a pig, and then goes and bathes and thoroughly
cleanses himself of all bloodstains, so that the spirits
of the dead shall not be able to recognize their
slayers. While the la ceremony is in progress the
man performing it may not sleep with his wife.
Not till he has cleansed himself may he resume
conjugal relations. The belief is that during the la
ceremony the spirit of the deceased is hovering
round, and if it saw the man who had slain him
sleeping with his wife, it would say, “ Ah, you prefer
women to me ”, and would inform all the spirits,
and the man who had done what is forbidden would
not be allowed to take any more heads. In the
village of Chapi some special precautions are taken
to guard the slayer against the vengeful ghost of the
man whom he has slain. On the return of the
warriors from a raid, a dog is sacrificed by each
warrior who has taken a head, and its skull is hung
up above the head of the man slain. This is a
preliminary precaution to guard the slayer against
the angry ghost of the man whom he has slain.
They think that the dog’s ghost will bark at the
dead man’s ghost, and so hinder him from harming
his slayer. After that the warriors enter the village
and perform the rest of the la ceremony, by sacri­
ficing a pig and dancing round an artificial head.
Then in the evening each man who has taken a head
goes into his house with the cook, the rice-beer
maker, the drummers and the person who played
the gongs at the la feast, and they must all remain
inside the house for five days. On the morning of
the sixth day the man who has taken a head rises
at cockcrow and goes and bathes in the nearest
stream. He then returns to his house and in front
of it plants two chestnut poles. The persons who
have kept him company inside the house during
these five days hold on to the chestnut poles, and the
head-taker says, “ The spirit of the man I have
killed has now departed Then they sacrifice a
n 8 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
pig and eat it, so finishing the ceremony. The
reason why the cook, the rice-beer maker, the
drummer and the gong-player are shut up for five
days with the head-taker is that it is believed that
if they go home before the whole ceremony is
finished they will take the deceased’s ghost with
them and will become ill. During these days it is
taboo for the head-taker to sleep with his wife. If
he did so he would take no more heads, for the
reason already given.
Among these Lakhers, a man who has taken a
head in war, although by doing so he has acquired
great renown, is none the less regarded as unclean.
On his return to the village a head-taker is taboo
(pana) until the la ceremony has been performed to
lay the dangerous ghost of the man killed; and it
is not until a formal purification—at which the hands
and feet are washed in the blood of the pig sacrificed
and the whole body is washed in water—has been
accomplished, that a head-taker resumes his ordin­
ary family and social relations. The temporary
separation of a head-taker from the rest of the com­
munity is especially marked among the Sabeu, the
tribe inhabiting the Chapi group of villages.
Among this tribe the ghost (saw) of the deceased is
regarded as so powerful that it is believed that it
will do harm to all who helped the head-taker to
perform the la ceremony and to their family unless
they remain with him apart until the ghost (saw) has
finally been laid and the head-taker cleansed. All
Lakhers share this view, but their ceremonies are
hi GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 119
1 2 0 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
less elaborate than those of the Sabeu. It is not
only men who have taken heads in war who are
bound to cleanse and purify themselves, murderers
are also under the same obligation. Although
head-taking on a raid is deemed meritorious, while
murder is regarded as a social sin, it makes no
difference to the fact that after taking human life
a man must purify himself; but even after purifi­
cation a murderer labours under certain social dis­
advantages, while a head-taker does not.1
Among the Oraons of Chota Nagpur in India
the angry spirit of a murdered man is propitiated
by sacrifice, and is sometimes reckoned among the
ancestral spirits of his murderer. For example, “ in
village Siligain two Oraons, related to each other
as cousins, had a quarrel over a piece of land ; and
one of them, in a sudden fit of anger, thrust his axe
into the bowels of the other man. The man, thus
struck, at once ran to his assailant’s house and,
pressing his wounded stomach with his hands, sat
down at one corner of the hut and exclaimed, ‘Here
I establish myself,’ and then ran out again to the
field in dispute and dropped down dead. To this
day, the descendants of the murderer propitiate the
murdered man’s spirit. After the harvest, the first
sheaf of paddy from the field on to which he dropped
down dead is offered to the spirit of the murdered
man at the same corner of the house where he sat
down before his death. The descendants of the
murdered man too are allowed access to the same
1 N, E, Parry, The Lakhers (London, 1932), pp. 213-218.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 121
spot for making similar offerings.” 1 In Travancore
the ghosts of murderers who have been hanged are
thought to be especially dangerous and are believed
to haunt the place of execution and its neighbour­
hood. To prevent this it used to be customary to
cut off the criminal’s heels with a sword or to ham­
string him as he was turned off.2
In Africa also the belief is very widespread that
the ghosts of the slain are dangerous to their slayers,
or to the community in general, and special precau­
tions are taken to guard against them. For this
purpose among the Kabyles of North Africa a
murderer tries to leap seven times over the grave
of his victim within three or seven days, believing
that if he can do so he will be safe from the pursuit
of the ghost. Hence the fresh grave of a murdered
man is carefully guarded.3 Among the Ibibio of
Southern Nigeria, when a murderer thinks that he
is haunted to his hurt by his victim’s angry ghost, he
offers a dog in sacrifice to the offended spirit. Should
the sacrifice prove unavailing he catches a male
lizard, and, with this carefully caged, goes to a place
where cross-roads meet. There, by the wayside, he
makes a tiny gallows, and taking out the lizard from
its prison, passes it three times round his head, crying,
“ Here I give you a man instead of me. Take him
and leave me free.” After this he places a noose
round the neck of the lizard and hangs it upon the
miniature gallows, hoping that the ghost will accept
1 S. C. Roy, Oraon Religion and Charity (London, 1S71), pp. 203 sq.
Custom (Ranchi, 1928), pp. 69 sq, 3 J. Liorel, Kabyle du Jurjura
2 Rev. S. Mateer, The Land of (Paris, N.D.), p. 441.
122 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
the lizard instead of himself or another human
victim.1
The Yendang, a tribe of Northern Nigeria, were
formerly head-hunters like all their neighbours.
Among them men who had taken heads were obliged
to have their bodies washed in beer by an old man
in order to safeguard themselves from pursuit by
the ghosts of their victims.2 Again, among the
Katab, another tribe of Northern Nigeria, who were
also of old head-hunters, when a warrior had taken
a head he used to make off with it at full speed, and
when he was free from pursuit one of his friends
made him drink immediately a concoction of the
bark of the locust and male shea-trees, at the same
time striking him on the chest and back with locust-
bean leaves. These rites were designed to protect
the warrior from assault from the dead man's ghost.3
The Chiwai, another tribe of Northern Nigeria, used
also to be head-hunters, like all their neighbours.
Among them all heads taken had to be brought im­
mediately to the priestly chief of the village. The
heads were boiled, and pieces of the flesh eaten by
the priest, after which the skulls were deposited in
the sacred hut of the village. During the perform­
ance of these rites each man who had taken a head
remained in concealment, and he was anointed with
a filthy mixture, which included the intestines of a
porcupine, in order to ward off pursuit by the dead
1 P, A. Talbot, Life in Southern 2 C. K. Meek, Tribal Studies in
Nigeria, p. 245 ; id., The Peoples Northern Nigeria (London, 1931), i.
of Southern Nigeria (London, 1926), 487.
iii. 866. 3 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 69.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 123
man’s ghost.1 Among the Yungur, another tribe
of head-hunters in Northern Nigeria, it was custom­
ary for a warrior on taking a head to lick off the
blood from his weapon in order to prevent hisvictim’s
ghost from pursuing him.1
2 Among the Igara, yet
another tribe of head-hunters in Northern Nigeria,
a warrior who had taken a head used to propitiate
the spirit of his dead foe annually by pouring the
blood of a sacrificed pullet over his enemy’s skull
before he might eat of the new yams.3 And in this
tribe when a man had taken a head it was deemed
necessary for him to perform a purificatory rite for
the purpose of warding off the angry ghost of his
victim. With this object the slayer partook of a
magical medicine, which was made up by grinding
into powder a portion of the lips, nose, eyes, eye­
brows, genital organs, liver and heart of his enemy,
together with various herbs. The eating of this
concoction was considered to destroy the power of
the ghost of his dead foe to harm the eater.4
The Dinka, a pastoral people of the Upper Nile,
believe that a homicide is likely to be haunted by his
victim’s ghost, and in consequence to grow thinner
and weaker until he dies.6 Among the Shilluk,
another tribe of the Upper Nile, warriors used to
engage the services of a medicine man to invoke their
ancestors that the spirits of their slain enemies might
1 C. K. Meek, op. cii. ii. 156. 4 Capt. J. R. Wilson-Haffenden,
2 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 458. op. cit. pp. 216 sg.
3 Capt. J. R, Wilson-Haffenden, 5 C. G. and B. L. Seligm&n, Pagan
The Red Men of Nigeria (London, Tribesof the Nilotic Sudan (London,
1930),p. 215. 1932),p. 177.
124 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
do them no harm. For this purpose a sheep was
sacrificed, and part of its entrails buried in a pot as
an offering to the spirits of the underworld.1 Among
the Lango, a Nilotic tribe of Uganda, on the morning
after a battle every man who has slain an enemy
brings a goat or a sheep for a sacrifice, because the
killing of an enemy entails great dangers from his
ghost. The ghost is supposed to have a deadly
influence on his slayer, afflicting him with attacks
of giddiness and frenzy, during which he may do
himself or the bystanders mortal mischief. It makes
his brain reel, and dances in his head until he is not
responsible for his actions. For this reason, and
also lest in the heat of the conflict a leprous or can­
cerous man has been speared, the slayers sacrifice
goats and sheep, which may be of any colour, unless
the slayer feels the influence of a ghost already be­
ginning to affect him, in which case he must kill a
black goat. The whole community joins in eating
the meat of the sacrificial victims. The undigested
matter from the intestines of the slaughtered goats
is smeared over the bodies of the warriors to protect
them from the ghosts of their dead enemies, and all
the bones are burned to ashes, which the warriors
throw broadcast to the winds. The ghost of the
slain man has also to be appeased by making cica­
trices on the bodies of his slayers. This has to be
done by the slayer himself: he cuts rows of these
scars on his shoulder and upper arm, the number of
1 W. Hofmayr, Die Shilluk (Vienna, 1925), p. 230; id,, C. G.
Seligman, op, cit. p. 97.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 125
the scars varying according to his ability to stand
the pain up to three and a half rows. Finally each
slayer has to shave his head in a particular fashion
called atira}
Among the Nilotic people of Kavirondo, to the
east of Lake Victoria Nyanza, when a warrior has
killed another in battle he is isolated from his village,
lives in a separate hut for about four days, and is
fed by an old woman because he may not touch food
with his hands. On the fifth day he is escorted to
the river by another man, who washes him. A
white goat is killed and cooked by the attendant,
who feeds the man with the meat. The goat-skin
is cut into strips and put upon the slayer’s wrists
and round his head, and he returns to his temporary
home for the night. The next day he is again taken
to the river and washed, and a white fowl is presented
him. He kills it and it is cooked for him, and he
is again fed with the meat. He is then pronounced
to be clean, and may return to his home. It some­
times happens that a warrior spears another man
in battle and the latter dies from the wound some
time after. When he dies the relatives go to the
warrior and inform him of the death, and he is
separated at once from the community until the
ceremonies above described have been performed.
The people say that the ceremonies are necessary
in order to release the ghost of the dead man, which
is bound to the warrior who slew him and is only1
1 J. H. Driberg, The Lango, a Nilotic Tribe of Uganda (London,
1923), PP» 110 ^ .
126 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
released on the fulfilment of the ceremonies. Should
a warrior refuse to fulfil the ceremonies, the ghost
will ask, “ Why don’t you fulfil the ceremonies and
let me go ? ” Should the man still refuse to comply,
the ghost will take him by the throat and strangle
him.1
Among these Nilotic people of Kavirondo the
ceremonial treatment ofa murderer closely resembles
the treatment of a warrior who has killed a foe in
battle, and the reason is that both treatments are
dictated by a fear of the ghost of the slain. When
a murder has been committed the murderer seldom
seeks safety in flight, and often confesses his guilt
without any trial. But he must undergo a cere­
mony of purification. He is first separated from the
members of his village and lives in a hut with an
old woman who attends to his wants, cooks for him
and also feeds him, for he may not touch food with
his own hands. The seclusion lasts three days, after
which a man who is himself a murderer, or has at
some time killed a man in battle, leads the murderer
to a stream and washes him all over. He then kills
a goat and cooks the meat, takes four sticks and
places a piece of meat on each stick and gives the
man the meat to eat from each stick in turn. When
the meat has been eaten, he gives him four pieces
of porridge made into balls and put on the sticks.
After this the goat-skin is cut into strips, which are
put round the neck and round each wrist of the
murderer. This ceremony is performed by the two
1 J. Roscoe, The Northern Bantu (Cambridge, 1915), p. 289.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 127
men who are alone at the river, and after it the
murderer is free to return home. It is said that
until this ceremony is performed the ghost cannot
take its departure for the place of the dead, but
hovers about the murderer.1
Among the Basoga, a Bantu people of Uganda,
on the northern shore of Lake Victoria Nyanza,
when a murder has been committed by a member
of another clan, the clan whose member has been
killed seeks to capture a member of the offending
clan and kill him. Sometimes they succeed in cap­
turing one of its members, most often a youth in
the road. They drag him away to the grave of the
murdered man and there cut his throat and leave
the body lying at the grave as an atonement to the
ghost of the murdered.2 Among the Bagesu, a
cannibal tribe of Mount Elgon in Kenya, when a
murderer belongs to the same clan as his victim he
must leave his village and find a new home, even
though the case may be settled amicably. But
before quitting the village the murderer has to take
a goat, kill it, smear his chest with the contents of
the stomach, and take the remainder and throw it
upon the roof of the house of the murdered man to
appease the ghost of his victim.3
Among the Banyankole, a pastoral people of
Southern Uganda, “ a warrior who had killed a man
was treated like a murderer or a hunter who had
killed a lion, leopard, antelope, or hyaena (because
1 J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 281. 2 J. Roscoe, op. cit. d. 243.
3 J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 98.
128 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
these animals belonged to the gods) ; he was not
allowed to sleep or eat with others until he had been
purified, for the ghost of the man was upon him ”.1
Among the Bakitara, a powerful tribe of Uganda,
when a rebellious prince had been killed it was
necessary that he should be speared, even after his
death, by a man of royal blood, for no ordinary
man might shed royal blood, and the prince's ghost
might be a dangerous enemy to the man who had
done such a deed.2 Similarly among the Bakunta,
a small tribe on the shores of Lake Edward in
Uganda, the princes of the royal family often rose
in rebellion against the king. If the king was killed
in the fight, the man who did the deed was raised
to a position of authority and importance at the
time, but when later any misfortune or illness
attacked members of the royal house, the priests
would declare that the ghost of the last monarch
desired vengeance on his murderer, and the dead
king’s successor would be persuaded to arrest and
kill the man whose act had put him on the throne.
If it was the rebellious prince who had been killed,
the same treatment would be meted out to his slayer,
for none might shed royal blood with impunity.3
Among the Kikuyu, a Bantu tribe of Kenya,
when a man has killed a person of his own clan,
it is deemed necessary to perform certain ceremonies
for the purpose ofguarding him against the dangerous
1 J. Roscoe, The Banyankole 3 J. Roscoe, The Bagesu and other
(Cambridge, 1923), p. 161. Tribes of the Uganda Protectorate
2 J. Roscoe, The Bakitara or (Cambridge, 1924), p. 159.
Banyoro (Cambridge, 1923), p. 314.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 129
ghost of his victim. Among other things, the elders
go to the local sacred fig-tree and kill a sheep there.
They deposit some of the fat, the chest bone, the
intestines, and the more important bones at the foot
of the tree. The rest of the carcase is eaten by the
elders. They say that the ghost of the murdered
man will visit the tree that night in the shape of a
wild cat and eat the meat, and that this offering
will prevent the ghost of the deceased from coming
back to his village and troubling the occupants.1
Among the Bantu tribes of Kavirondo, when a man
has killed an enemy in warfare he shaves his head
on his return home, and his friends rub a medicine,
which generally consists of goat’s dung, over his
body to prevent the spirit of the slain man from
troubling him.1
2 Exactly the same custom is ob­
served for the same reason by the Wageia of Tan­
ganyika.3 With the Ja-Luo of Kavirondo the
custom is somewhat different. Three days after his
return from the fight the warrior shaves his head.
But before he may enter the village he has to hang
a live fowl, head uppermost, round his neck; then
the bird is decapitated and its head is left hanging
round his neck. Soon after his return a feast is
made for the slain man, in order that his ghost may
not haunt his slayer.4 When a Ketosh warrior of
1 C. W. Hobley, “ Kikuyu Cus-
toms and Beliefs ” , inJournal of the
Royal Anthropological Institute, xl.
(1910) pp. 438 sq.
2 Sir H. Johnston, The Uganda
Protectorate, ii. 723 ; C. W. Hobley,
Eastern Uganda, p. 20.
VO L. I ll
8 M. Weiss, Die Volkerstamme im
Norden Deutsch-Ostafrikas (Berlin,
1910), p. 198.
4 Sir H. Johnston, The Uganda
Protectorate, ii. 794 sq. ; C. W.
Hobley, Eastern Uganda, p. 31.
K
Kenya who has killed a foe in battle returns home,
“ it is considered essential that he should have
connection with his wife as soon as convenient; this
is believed to prevent the spirit of his dead enemy
from haunting and bewitching him ”.1
Among the Ba-Yaka, a Bantu people of the
Congo Free State, a man who has been killed in
battle is supposed to send his soul to avenge his
death on the man who killed him ; but the slayer
can escape the vengeance of the dead by wearing
the red tail-feathers of the parrot in his hair, and
painting his forehead red.1
2
Among the Boloki, a people of the Upper Congo,
“ a homicide is not afraid of the spirit of the man
he has killed when the slain man belongs to any of
the neighbouring towns, as disembodied spirits travel
in a very limited area only; but when he kills a
man belonging to his own town he is filled with fear
lest the spirit shall do him some harm. There are
no special rites that he can observe to free himself
from these fears, but he mourns for the slain man as
though he were a member of his own family. He
neglects his personal appearance, shaves his head,
fasts for a certain period, and laments with much
weeping.” 3 By this display of sorrow he doubtless
hopes to soften the heart of his victim’s ghost, and
so to induce him to spare his slayer.
130 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
1 C. W. Hobley, “ British East Ba-Yaka ” , in the Journal of the
Africa ” , inJournal of the Anthropo- Royal Anthropological Institute,
logicalInstitute, xxxiii. (1903) p. 353. xxxvi. (1906) pp. 50 sq.
2 E. Torday and T. A. Joyce, 8 J. H. Weeks, Among Congo
“ Notes on the Ethnography of the Cannibals (London, 1913), p. 268.
Among the Angoni, a Zulu tribe settled to the
north of the Zambesi, warriors who have slain foes
on an expedition smear their bodies and faces with
ashes, and hang garments of their victims on their
persons. This costume they wear for three days
after their return, and rising at break of day they
run through the village uttering frightful yells to
banish the ghosts of the slain, which otherwise might
bring sickness and misfortune on the people.1
Among the Ila-speaking peoples of Northern Rho­
desia, who were head-hunters, the warrior who had
taken a head in battle had afterwards to undergo
purification. The doctor or medicine-man put a little
medicine on the tongue of the slayer that the ghost
of the man he had slain might not trouble him. This
he did to each of the warriors who had taken a head
in battle. Further, each warrior was bathed in the
fumes of certain medicines burnt in a sherd. The
ashes were afterwards placed in a koodoo horn and
planted at the threshold of his hut to drive off the
ghost of the person he had killed.2
In these tribes a man who has committed a
murder is believed to be possessed by the ghost of
his victim, which renders him very uneasy in his
mind ; but the ghost can be expelled by the taking
of an emetic or by cupping, and so the slayer’s
peace of mind can be restored ; he has either
vomited up the ghost or ejected him in the blood of
1 C. Wiese, “ Beitrage zur 2 Rev. E. W. Smith and Capt.
Geschichte der Zulu im Norden des A. M. Dale, The Ila-speakingPeoples
Zambesi ” , in Zeitschrift fur Etk- of Northern Rhodesia (London,
nologie, xxxii. (1900) pp. 197 sq. 1920), i. 179.
in GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 131
132 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
his body.1 Among the Awemba, a tribe of Northern
Rhodesia,‘‘accordingtoa superstition commonamong
Central African tribes, unlessthe slayers were purified
from blood-guiltiness they would become mad. On
the night of return no warrior might sleep in his own
hut, but lay in the open nsaka in the village. The
next day, after bathing in the stream and being
anointed with Iustral medicine by the doctor, he
could return to his own hearth, and resume inter­
course with his wife.” 2 In all such cases the mad­
ness of the slayer is probably attributed by the
natives to the ghost of the man he has slain, which
has taken possession of him.
Among the Thonga, a Bantu tribe of South
Africa, about Delagoa Bay, “ to have killed an
enemy on the battlefield entails an immense glory
for the slayer ; but that glory is fraught with great
danger. They have killed. . . . So they are ex­
posed to the mysterious and deadly influence of the
nuru and must consequently undergo a medical
treatment. What is the nuru ? Nuru, the spirit of
the slain which tries to take its revenge on the slayer.
It haunts him and may drive him to insanity: his
eyes swell, protrude, and become inflamed. He will
lose his head, be attacked by giddiness, and the
thirst for blood may lead him to fall upon members
of his own family and to stab them with his assegay.
To prevent such misfortunes, a special medication
is required, the slayers must lurulula tiyimpa ta bu,
1 Smith and Dale, op. cit. ii. Warpaths ” ,inJournal ofthe African
pp. 136 sq. Society, No. 41 (October, 1911),
2 J. H. West Sheane, “ Wemba pp. 31 sq.
take away the nuru of their sanguinary expedition.
. . . In what consists this treatment ? The slayers
must remain some days at the capital. They are
taboo. They put on old clothes, eat with special
spoons, because their hands are ‘ hot ', and offspecial
plates (mireko) and broken pots. They are forbidden
to drink water. Their food must be cold. The chief
kills oxen for them ; but if the meat were hot it
would make them swell internally ‘ because they are
hot themselves, they are defiled (ba na nsila) '. If
they eat hot food, the defilement would enter into
them. ‘ They are black (;ntima). This black must
be removed.' During all this time sexual relations
are absolutely forbidden to them. They must not
go home to their wives. In former times the Ba-
Ronga used to tattoo them with special marks from
one eyebrow to the other. Dreadful medicines were
inoculated in the incisions, and there remained
pimples ‘which gave them the appearance of a
buffalo when it frowns '. After some days a medicine­
man comes to purify them, ‘ to remove their black ’.
There seems to be various ways of doing it, accord­
ing to Mankhelu. Seeds of all kinds are put into a
broken pot and roasted, together with drugs and
psanyi1 of a goat. The slayers inhale the smoke
which emanates from the pot. They put their hands
into the mixture and rub their limbs with it, especi­
ally the joints. . . . Insanity threatening those who
shed blood might begin early. So, already on the
1 Psanyi is half-digested grass Life of a South African Tribe,
found in the stomachs of sacrificed Second Edition (London, 1927), i.
goats. See Henri A. Junod, The 477 sqq.
in GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 133
battlefield, just after their deed, warriors are given
a preventive dose of the medicine by those who have
killed on previous occasions. . . . The period of
seclusion having been concluded by the final puri­
fication, all the implements used by the slayers dur­
ing these days, and their old garments, are tied
together and hung by a string to a tree, at some
distance from the capital, where they are left to
rot.” 1
Among the Basutos of South Africa ablution is
especially performed on return from battle. It is
absolutely necessary that the warriors should rid
themselves, as soon as possible, of the blood they
have shed, or the ghosts of their victims would pur­
sue them incessantly, and disturb their slumbers.
They go in procession, and in full armour, to the
nearest stream. At the moment they enter the
water a diviner, placed higher up, throws some puri­
fying substance into the current. The spears and
battle-axes also undergo the process of washing.2
Among the Thompson Indians of British Col­
umbia, when a man had killed his enemy he used to
blacken his own face, believing that if he failed to
do so the ghost of his victim would blind him.3
On the evening of the day on which they had tor­
tured a prisoner to death, the American Indians
used to run through the village with hideous yells,
beating with sticks on the furniture, the walls, and
the roofs of the huts to prevent the angry ghost of
1 H. A. Junod, op. cit. i. 477 sqq. 3 J. Teit, The Thompson Indians^
2 Rev. E. Casalis, The Basutos p. 357.
(London, 1861), p. 258.
134 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D c h .
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 135
their victim from settling there and taking ven­
geance for the torments that his body had endured
at their hands.1 “ Once,” says a traveller, " on
approaching in the night a village of Ottawas, I
found all the inhabitants in confusion: they were
all busily engaged in raising noises of the loudest
and most inharmonious kind. Upon inquiry, I
found that a battle had been lately fought between
the Ottawas and the Kickapoos, and that the object
of all this noise was to prevent the ghosts of the
departed combatants from entering the village.” 2
Amongst the Omaha Indians of the United States
a murderer whose life had been spared by the kins­
men of his victim had to observe certain stringent
rules for a period which varied from two to four
years. He must walk barefoot, and he might eat
no warm food, nor raise his voice, nor look around.
He had to pull his robe around him and to keep it
tied at the neck, even in warm weather ; he might
not let it hang loose or fly open. He might not
move his hands about, but had to keep them close
to his body. He might not comb his hair, nor
might it be blown about by the wind. N0one would
eat with him, and only one ofhis kindred was allowed
to remain with him in his tent. When the tribe
went hunting, he was obliged to pitch his tent about
a quarter of a mile from the rest of the people,
“ lest the ghost of his victim should raise a high
1 P. F. X. de Charlevoix, Histoire 2 W. H. Keating, Narrative of an
de la Nouvelle-France (Paris, 1744), Expedition to the Source of the St.
vi. 77,122 sq.; J. F. Lafitau, Maeurs Peter's River (London, 1825), i. 109.
des sauvages ameriquains, ii. 279.
wind which might cause damage.’' 1 The reason
here alleged for banishing the murderer from the
camp of the hunters gives the clue to all the other
restrictions laid on him : he was haunted by the
ghost and therefore dangerous. Speaking specially
of the Creek Indians in the south-east of the United
States, James Adair, who knew them well, tells us
that after a successful expedition the Indians cut the
scalps into several pieces and place them on the
tops of the winter houses of their deceased relations,
whose deaths, if by the hand of the enemy, they
esteem not revenged until then ; and thus their
ghosts are enabled to go to their intermediate place of
rest, till after a certain time they return to live for
ever in that tract of land which pleased them best
when in their former state. They dance for three
days and nights for their victory, and for the happi­
ness of sending the spirits of their killed relations
from the eaves of their houses which they haunted,
mourning with plaintive notes, like owls in winter.1
2
From observing the great respect paid by the
Indians to the scalps they had taken, and listening
to the mournful songs which they howled to the
shades of their victims, the painter Catlin was con­
vinced that “ they have a superstitious dread of the
spirits of their slain enemies, and many conciliatory
offices to perform, to ensure their own peace.” 3
1 Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, “ Omaha American Indians (London, 1775),
Sociology ” , in Third AnnualReport p. 397.
of the Bureau of Ethnology (Wash- 3 G. Catlin, North American
ington, 1884), p. 369. Indians, Fourth Edition (London,
2 James Adair, History of the 1844), i. 246.
136 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 137
Among the Natchez, an Indian tribe of the lower
Mississippi, young braves who had taken their first
scalps were obliged to observe certain rules of
abstinence for six months. They might not sleep
with their wives, nor eat flesh ; their only food was
fish and hasty-pudding. If they broke these rules,
they believed that the soul of the man they had
killed would work their death by magic, that they
would gain no more successes over the enemy, and
that the least wound inflicted on them would prove
mortal.1
The Indians of British Guiana in South America
believe that an avenger of blood who has slain his
man must go mad unless he tastes the blood of his
victim; in order to avert this consequence the
Indian man-slayer resorts on the third night to the
grave of his victim, pierces the corpse with a sharp-
pointed stick, and withdrawing it sucks the blood
of the murdered man. After that he goes home
with an easy mind, satisfied that he has done his
duty and that he has nothing more to fear from the
ghost.8 Among the Lengua Indians of Paraguay
a murderer is not only put to death, but his body is
burned, and his ashes scattered to the four winds.
These Indians believe that after this treatment his
spirit cannot take human form, and remains in
the after-world shapeless and unrecognizable, and
1 “ Relation des Natchez ” , Voy­
ages aux Nord (Amsterdam, 1737),
ix. 24 ; Lettres edifiantes et curieuses
(Paris, 1780-1783), vii. 26; Charle­
voix, Histoire de la Nouvelle-France.
2 Rev. J. H. Bernau, Missionary
Labours in British Guiana (London,
1847), pp. 57 sq.; R. Schomburgk,
Reisen in British Guiana (Leipsic,
1847-1848), ii. 497 ; W. H. Brett,
Indian Tribes 0} Guiana (London,
1868), pp. 358 sq
therefore unable to mingle with its kindred spirits,
or to enjoy such social intercourse as exists.1 In
that disabled and melancholy state the spirit of the
murderer must clearly be incapable of harming the
survivors.
Like so many savages, the ancient Greeks be­
lieved that the soul of any man who had just been
killed was angry with his slayer and troubled him ;
hence even an involuntary homicide had to depart
from his country for a year until the wrath of the
dead man had cooled down; nor might the slayer
return until sacrifice had been offered and ceremonies
of purification performed. If his victim chanced to
be a foreigner, the homicide had to shun the country
of the dead man as well as his own.1
2 The legend
of the matricide Orestes, how he roamed from place
to place pursued and maddened by the ghost of his
murdered mother, reflects faithfully the ancient
Greek conception of the fate which overtakes the
murderer at the hands of the ghost.3
But it is important to observe that to Greek
thinking not only does the hag-ridden homicide go
in terror of his victim’s ghost; he is himself an
object of fear and aversion to the whole community
on account of the angry and dangerous spirit which
dogs his steps. It was probably more in self-
defence than out of consideration for the man-
1 W. B. Grubb, An Unknown 3 Aeschylus, Choepkor, 1021 sq.;
People in an Unknown Land, p. 120. Eumenides\ 85 sqq.; Euripides,
2 Plato, Laws, ix. 8, pp. 865D- Iphig. in Tauri, 940sqq.; Pausanias,
8 66 a ; Demosthenes, xxiii. pp. 683 ii. 31. 8, viii. 34.1-4.
sq.; Hesychius, s.v. aiTeviavricrfios,
138 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 139
slayer that Attic law compelled him to quit the
country. This comes out clearly from the provi­
sions of the law. For in the first place, on going
into banishment the homicide had to follow a pre­
scribed road:1 obviously it would have been
hazardous to let him stray about the country with a
wrathful ghost at his heels. In the second place,
if another charge was brought against a banished
homicide, he was allowed to return to Attica to
plead in his defence, but he might not set foot on
land; he had to speak from a ship, and even the
ship might not cast anchor or put out a gangway.
The judges avoided all contact with the culprit,
for they judged the case sitting or standing on the
shore.2 Plainly the intention of this rule was
literally to insulate the slayer, lest by touching
Attic earth even indirectly through the anchor or
gangway he should blast it by a sort of electric shock,
as we might say; though doubtless the Greeks
would have said that the blight was wrought by
contact with the ghost, through a sort of effluence
of death. For the same reason if such a man, sail­
ing the sea, happened to be wrecked on the coast of
the country where his crime had been committed,
he was allowed to camp on the shore till a ship
came to take him off, but he was expected to keep
his feet in sea-water all the time,3 evidently to
neutralize the ghostly infection, and prevent it from
1 Demosthenes, xxiii. pp, 643 sq. viii. 120; Helladius, quoted by
2 Demosthenes, xxiii. pp. 645 sq.; Photius ; Bibliotheca, p. 535A, lines
Aristotle, Constitution of Athens, 28 sqq.t ed. I. Bekker (Berlin, 1824).
57 ; Pausanias, i. 28. 11 ; Pollux, 3 Plato, Laws, ix. 8, p. 866c, D.
140 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
spreading to the soil. For the same reason, when
the turbulent people of Cynaetha in Arcadia had per­
petrated a particularly atrocious massacre and had
sent envoys to Sparta, all the Arcadian states
through which the envoys took their way ordered
them out of the country ; and after their departure
the Mantineans purified themselves and their be­
longings by sacrificing victims and carrying them
round the city and the whole of their land.1 So
when the Athenians had heard of a massacre at
Argos, they caused purificatory offerings to be
carried round the public assembly.1
2 No doubt
the root of all such observances was a fear of the
dangerous ghost which haunts the murderer and
against which the whole community as well as the
homicide himself must be on its guard. The
Greek practice in these respects is clearly mir­
rored in the legend of Orestes; for it is said
that the people of Troezen would not receive him
in their houses until he had been purified of his
guilt,3that is, until he had been rid of his mother’s
ghost.
At a sanctuary of the goddesses of madness—the
Maniae—in Arcadia, on the road from Megalopolis
to Messene, a curious legend ran that on his wander­
ings Orestes came thither and there, maddened by
the murder of his mother, bit off one of his fingers,
whereupon the black Furies of his murdered mother,
who had driven him crazy, appeared to him white,
1 Polybius, iv. 17-21.
2 Plutarch, Praecept. ger, reipub.
xvii. 9.
3 Pausanias, ii. 31. 8.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE SLAIN 141
and he was at once healed of his madness.1 The
legend perhaps contains a reminiscence of a drastic
mode of appeasing the angry ghost of a murdered
person, to which Greek murderers may sometimes
have resorted. In savage society, as we have seen,
man-slayers are often supposed to be driven mad by
the ghosts of their victims, and have resort to many
ceremonies for the purpose of ridding themselves
of these dangerous spirits. With this object Greek
murderers may sometimes have sacrificed a finger.
The sacrifice of a finger, or rather the joint or joints
of a finger, in mourning and on other occasions, has
been a common custom in many parts of the world,
including Australia, Polynesia, India, Africa, and
America.1
2
1 Pausanias, viii. 34. 2, with my
commentary upon the passage in
Pausanias*s Description of Greece,
iv. pp. 355*357-
2 See my note on Pausanias, loc.
cit. For further references to the
custom see J. C. van Eerde:
“ Fingermutilatie in Centraal Nieuw-
Guinea ” , in Tijdschrift van het
Koninklijk Nederlandsch Aardrijk-
skundig Genootsckap, 2de Serie, Deel
xxviii. (1911) pp. 49-65 ; P. J. de
Smet, Western Missions and Mis­
sionaries (New York, 1S63), p. 135*
(at the first peal of thunder in
spring); G. B. Grinnell, Blackfoot
Lodge Indians (London, 1S93), PP*
194, 258; J. Mathew, Eaglehawk
and Crow (London and Melbourne,
1S99), p. 120 ; Chevron, in Annales
de I Association de la Propagation de
la Foi, xiv. (1842) p. 192 (sacrifice
for a sick parent in Fiji); op. cit.
xvii. (1845) PP* 74 sqq. (*n Australia,
sacrifice to serpents, fish, or kanga­
roos in infancy); op. cit. xviii. (1846)
p. 6 (Wallis Island, Pacific: a
general custom); op. cit. xxiii.
(1851) p. 314 (Mandan and Big-
Belly Indians, North America : in
mourning for children or grand­
children) ; op. cit. xxxii. (i860) p. 95
(Futuna Island, Pacific : Sacrifice at
illness or death of parent); Max
Bartels, “ Isliindischer Brauch und
Volksglaube in Bezug auf die Nach-
kommenschaft ” , in Zeitschrift fiir
Ethnologic, xxxii. (1900) p. 74 (Ice-
and : mother bites off child’s finger
to prolong child’s life); Mgr. Le
Roy, “ Les Pygmees ” , in Les
Missions Catholiques, xxix. (1S97)
p. 90 (Ba-Bongo of Upper Ogowe
River, Africa: mutilation of child­
ren’s fingers after death of first-born
child); Buchanan Hamilton, cited
in The Indian Antiquary, xxiv.
(Bombay, 1S95) P- 3°3 (Mysore,
India: amputation of mother’s
finger joints at betrothal of her
142 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
II. Ghosts of Suicides
The spirits of persons who have taken their own
life are commonly regarded with dread and fear,
daughter); A. W. Howitt, Native
Tribes of South-East Australia
(London, 1904) pp. 746 sq. (Aus­
tralia, tribes of eastern coast:
amputation of joints of little finger
or whole little finger of all women in
childhood); Dudley Kidd, The
Essential Kafir (London, 1904) pp.
203,262 sq. (Africa, Kafirs: amputa­
tion of finger in mourning or child­
hood or to give strength. Amputated
joint placed in roof to counteract
evil magic of enemies); A. Karasek,
“ Beitrage zur Kenntnis des Was-
chambaa ", in Baessler*Archiv
(Berlin and Leipzig), i. (1911) p. 171
(Africa, the Wachamba: mother
amputates joint of her little finger
and drops the blood into the eye of
her child to heal malady of eyes. If
hut falls on man and he escapes un­
hurt he amputates a joint of his little
finger, buries it, and sacrifices a
goat); E. Thurston, Ethnographic
Notes in Southern India (Madras,
1906), pp. 390-396 (India, Mysore:
amputation of first joints of third
and fourth fingers of mother's right
hand before her daughter's ears are
pierced as a preparation for mar­
riage); id., Thurston, Castes and
Tribes of Southern India (Madras,
1909), v. pp. 75 sqq.; Ethnographic
Survey of Mysore (Preliminary
Issue), No. xv. pp. 8 sq., 10 sq. ;
Rev. A. G. Morice, “ The Great
Dene Race ", in Anthropos, i. (1906)
p. 724 (N. America, Dene Indians:
in mourning for child or husband);
Voyage de la Perouse autour du
monde (Paris, 1797), iii. 254 (Tonga
and other Polynesian islands: in
mourning for dead relative or friend);
Labillardiere, Relation du voyage a
la recherche de la Perouse (Paris,
1800), p. 151 (Tonga : to heal sick­
ness) ; Rev, G. Brown, “ Notes on a
Recent Journey to New Guinea and
New Britain ", in Seventh Report of
the Australasian Association for the
Advancement of Science, 1898 ; id.,
G. Brown, Melanesians and Poly­
nesians (London, 1910), pp. 241,
394 (New Guinea, New Britain, and
Eastern Polynesia : amputation of
finger-joints in mourning, and for
benefit of sick friends); John
Williams, Narrative of Missionary
Enterprises in the South Sea Islands
(London, 1838), pp. 470 sq.; L.
Degrandpre, Voyage a la cdte
occidentale d'Afrique (Paris, 1801),
ii. pp. 93 sq. (Africa : amputation of
finger-joints among Bushmen as cure
for sickness); Father Betaillon, in
Annales de la Propagation de la Foi,
xiii. (1841) p. 20 (Wallis Island,
Pacific : little fingers amputated in
mourning and thrown on bier);
J. B. Stair, Old Samoa (London,
1897), P- l l 7 (Samoa: amputation
of finger or finger-joints in mourn­
ing) ; J. E. Erskine, Journal of a
Cruise among the Islands of the
Western Pacific (London, 1863), p.
123 (Tonga Island: in mourning
and depreciation of sickness); R.
W. Williamson, The Mafulu (Lon­
don, 1912), p. 247 and note (New
Guinea: in woman's mourning for
children and other relatives); Bald­
win Spencer, Native Tribes of
Northern Australia (London, 1914),
p. 10 (North Australia, Larakia
Tribe : amputation of joint of index
finger of woman by her mother in
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 143
and special precautions are taken by the living to
guard against these dangerous ghosts. Among
the Ewe tribes of Togo in West Africa, when a man
is in great anger or trouble, he will sometimes go
into the forest and hang himself on a tree. When
this becomes known, if it is night, no one but the
relations of the suicide will go to look for the body ;
but next morning other people will go in search of
it. They do it, however, in great fear, and hang
magic strings about them, while others smear
their faces with a magical powder, in order that the
ghost of the suicide may not molest them. If a
man hangs himself at midday, after previously
making an unsuccessful attempt at suicide, the
neighbours will not go to look for him, or if they go
it is a mere pretence, and they leave to his relatives
the trouble of finding his body. For they believe
that the man who should first set eyes on the suicide
would be unlucky and troubled by the dead man’s
ghost. Hence the people will not approach the
body. When one of the searchers catches sight of
the body he throws grass upon it, saying, “ I pity
you, I pity you ”. Then the others come up, and
childhood, or at a later time); John (London, 1804), PP* 35& J*
Turnbull, A Voyage Mound the Irle, Die Herero (Gutersloh, 1906),
World in 2800-1804, SecondEdition, p. 155 (South-West Africa, in tribe
(London, 1813), p. 100 (Australia, Bergdamra : firstjoint of little finger
New South Wales: amputation of of left hand of every child amputated
first two joints of little finger of right at birth as tribal mark) ; G. W.
hand of female child in infancy. Stow, Native Races of South Africa
Severed part thrown into sea, that (London, 1905), pp. 129, 152. See
the woman may thereafter be for- further my discussion of the subject
tunate in fishing); David Collins, in Folk-Lore in the Old Testament,
Account of the English Colony in iii, 198-241.
New South Wales} Second Edition
144 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
cut down the tree on which the man has hanged
himself. After that they cut off the branch on
which he hanged himself. On this branch they
lay the corpse, and drag it ruthlessly over stones
and through thorns to the place set apart for the
burial of persons who have died a violent death
(Blutmenschen). There they dig a small hole,
shove the body in, and huddle it up in all haste.
Should one of them have pity on the dead man he
may fire a few shots from his musket. If a man
has hanged himself in the neighbourhood of a
village, they thrust a stake through his breast,
carry him like a pig into the forest, and there give
him a hasty burial. But if the man was unpopular,
then they drag his body along the ground to the
place of burial.
The branches of the tree on which he hung him­
self are then cut off and laid on his grave, in order
that his remains may not be dragged out by wild
beasts. After the burial the relations of the suicide
must pay a fine of cowries and a goat to the villagers,
because their kinsman has defiled the village by the
manner of his death. A portion of the cowrie fine
is used to defray the expenses of purifying the village
from the defilement it has incurred through the death
of the suicide. What remains of the fine is distri­
buted among the villagers. Nine days later the
people assemble to hold the final ceremony. They
have bought palm-wine and collected provisions for
the purpose. The brothers of the deceased on his
father’s side spread a new mat upside down on the
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 145
road, and heap provisions of all kinds upon it, of
which some of the people freely partake. Then
they fill a small pot with palm wine, smear it with
white earth, and bind its neck with the bark of the
raffia palm. Next they cut three pieces of firewood,
and put them together as if to form a hearth, and
they place the pot upon the wood, but kindle no fire.
In the evening they take the pot, together with all
the provisions that lie upon the mat, carry them
away, and set them down at the edge of the path
near the suicide’s grave. After that they go home
and fire two musket shots, which ends the death
ceremony. Afterwards the priests, for a fee, call
the spirit of the suicide into the house of the earth-
gods (Trohaus). Arrived there, the spirit of the
suicide makes his excuses to the deities for his crime.
He may say, for example, that spirits have driven
him mad, and so goaded him into crime. Or he may
say that his dead brothers, who have also died un­
happy deaths, have lured him to his doom, in order
to have his company in the spirit land.
Among these people, when a man has taken his
life, smarting under an insult which has been offered
to him by a kinsman, his body is not buried until
his relatives have paid a fine to the villagers, because
his spirit is believed to render the ground barren,
and to hinder the rain from falling, so that the whole
tribe suffers from the effects of his crime. The
member of his family who insulted the deceased is
also called to account and must pay a fine before
the body of his kinsman may be laid in the earth.
VOL. I ll L
146 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
If the motive to suicide has been shame at the
failure to keep a solemn promise which the man
made in his life, his body is denied honourable burial,
and the place where he did the deed must be purified
by a sacrifice to the earth god (tro).x
The Baganda of Central Africa were very super­
stitious about suicides. They took innumerable pre­
cautions to remove the body and destroy the ghost,
lest he should cause trouble to the living. Shame for
crime committed sometimes led to suicide, but this
occurred rarely in any section of the community,
and most rarely among women. When a man com­
mitted suicide, he hanged himself on a tree in his
garden or in his house. In the former case the body
was cut down, and the tree felled also, then both
the tree and the corpse, the latter tied to a pole like
the carcase of an animal, were taken to a distant
place where cross-roads met, and the body was
burned, the tree being used for firewood. When the
suicide had taken place in the house the dwelling
was pulled down, and the materials were taken with
the body and burned in the road. People feared
to live in a house in which a suicide had taken place,
lest they too should be tempted to commit the same
crime. Those who had burned the corpse afterwards
washed their hands carefully at the place of burning
with sponges made from plantains, and threw them
on the pyre. When women passed the place where
a suicide had been burned, they threw grass or
sticks upon the heap, to prevent the ghost from
1 J. Spieth, Die Ewe-Stamme (Berlin, 1906), pp, 272-277.
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 147
entering into them and being reborn. The intention
in burning the body was, if possible, to destroy the
ghost. If the suicide had been a man of no social
importance his body was regularly burnt to ashes
on a piece of waste land beside the road, or at
cross-roads, in order to destroy the ghost.1 If,
however, he had been a person of some position,
and his relatives claimed the body, it was first
charred by fire before it was handed over to them.
Everyone passing the spot where the corpse of a
suicide had been burned took the precaution to
throw some grass, or a few sticks, on the place, so
as to prevent the ghost from catching him, in case it
had not been destroyed.1
2
Among the Wachagga of Mount Kilimanjaro in
East Africa the bodies of suicides are buried like
those of other people, but the place where the crime
was committed must be purified or, to use the ex­
pression of our authority, “ pacified ” by being
sprinkled with water drained from the blossom of a
certain sacred yellow flower. Further, they take the
noose of the rope with which the man had hanged
himself, and bringing a goat, hang it in the noose,
and then offer it in sacrifice. In this way they
attempt to appease the ghost of the suicide, and to
prevent him from tempting other people to imitate
his crime.3 Among the Wachamba of Usambara
1 J. Roscoe, The Baganda (Lon­
don, 1911), pp. 20 sq.
2 J. Roscoe, op. cit. p. 289.
8 B. Gutmann, Dickten und
Denken der Dsckagganeger (Leip­
zig, 1909), p. 141. Cf. Gutmann,
“ Trauer und Begrabnis-sitten der
Wadschagga ” , in Globu$> lxxxix.
(1906} p. 200.
in Central Africa, the bodies of suicides do not re­
ceive a regular burial, but are huddled away in holes
in the rocks or in the forest. There a tree is felled,
and laid over his body. With the exception of his axe,
knife, spear and sword the property of the deceased,
and especially his clothing, is thrown away in the
wood. If he had hanged himself on a tree, the tree
is torn up by the roots. They take a goat and kill it,
and having extracted the entrails they throw them
together with the animal's bones into the hole from
which the tree has been torn up. If the tree were
not thus torn up, it is believed that the children and
relatives of the suicide would immediately die. If
the suicide was committed in a hut in the field, the
hut is at once burned.1 The Sakalava of Mada­
gascar have so firm a belief in a life after death that
they will sometimes threaten that after their decease
their ghosts will haunt and persecute such as had
offended them in life. When the persons so threat­
ened hear it they seek to effect a reconcilement,
fearing apparently that the persons who threaten
them might make good their threats by taking their
own lives, and then attacking such as had given
umbrage in life. A traveller in the south of Mada­
gascar has reported that when the Mahafali desire
to avenge themselves speedily on their enemies they
will sometimes take their own lives in order that
their ghosts may at once take vengeance on their foes.
Among the young men of the Mahafali tribe this
148 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
1 A. Karasek, “ Beitrage zur Baessler-Archiv, i. (1911) pp. 190
Kenntnis der Waschambaa ” , in sq.
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 149
belief has been known to create a regular epidemic
of suicides.1
Suicide as a method of wreaking a ghostly ven­
geance after death for a wrong done in life has been
practised as a regular part of their profession by
the Charans, a sub-division of the Bhats, a caste of
bards and genealogists in India, who are found all
over the Central Provinces and Birar. By pro­
fession they were bards and heralds, and they
travelled from court to court without fear of mo­
lestation from robbers or enemies. But the mere
reverence for their calling would not have sufficed to
protect them from the attacks of robbers and others.
They derived a greater security from their readiness
to mutilate, starve or kill themselves, rather than
yield up any property committed to their care ;
and it was a general belief that their ghosts would
then haunt the persons whose ill-deeds had forced
them to take their own lives. It was on this fear
of their ghosts that the Charans relied, nor did they
hesitate a moment to sacrifice their lives in defence
of any obligation they had undertaken or of property
committed to their safe-keeping. When plunderers
carried off any cattle belonging to the Charans, the
whole community would proceed to the spot w
rhere
the robbers resided ; and if restoration of the pro­
perty were not made they would cut off the heads
of several of their old men and women. In such
cases many instances occurred of a man dressing
1 H. Russillon, Un culte dyn- chez les Sakalavas de Madagascar
astique avec evocation dcs marts {Paris* 1912), pp, 47 sq.
himself in cotton-quilted cloths, steeped in oil,
which he set on fire at the bottom, and thus danced
against the criminal until he himself dropped down
dead and was burned to ashes. To do this was to
perform the ceremony of trdga against the male­
factor.
The following account of a suicide and actual
haunting of his ghost is reported by Mr. R. V. Russell
from the Rasmald. A Charan asserted a claim
against the chief of Siela in Kathiawar, which the
latter refused to pay. The bard then went to Siela,
taking forty of his caste with him, with the intention
of sitting Dharna, as the ceremony is called, at the
chiefs door, and preventing any one from coming
out or going in until the claim was settled. How­
ever, the chief, having got wind of it, ordered the
gates of the town to be closed against them. The
Charan to whom the debt was due thus remained
outside the walls, and for three days he abstained
from food. Finally, after sacrificing the life of
several of his company he dressed himself in clothes
wadded with cotton steeped in oil, and having set
fire to them burned himself to death. But as he
died he cried out: “ I am now dying; but I will
become a headless ghost in the palace, and will take
the chiefs life and cut off his prosperity”. After
this sacrifice the rest of the bards returned home.
On the third day after the creditor’s suicide his
ghost (Bkut) threw the chiefs wife downstairs, so
that she was much injured. Many people too beheld
the headless phantom in the palace. At last the
ISO THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH
.
ghost entered the chief’s own head and set him
trembling. At night he would throw stones at the
palace, and he killed a female servant outright. At
length, in consequence of the many acts of violence
committed by the ghost of the suicide, none dared
to approach the chief’s palace even by broad day­
light. In order to exorcize the ghost Fakirs and
Brahmans were summoned from many different
places ; but whoever attempted the cure was im­
mediately assailed by the ghost in the chief’s body,
and that so furiously that the courage of the exor-
cizer failed him. Moreover the ghost would cause
the chief to tear the flesh off his own arms with his
teeth. Besides this, several persons died of injuries
received at the hands of the ghost; but nobody
had the power to expel him. At last a foreign
astronomer came, who had a great reputation for
charms and magic, and the chief sent for him and
paid him honour. The sage tied all round the house
threads which he had charged with a charm ; then
he sprinkled charmed milk and water all round;
then he drove a charmed iron nail into the ground
at each corner of the mansion, and two at the door.
He purified the house and continued his charms and
incantations for forty-one days, each day making
sacrifices at the cemetery to the ghost of the suicide.
He himself lived in a room in the chief’s house ’
which
was securely fastened up ; but people say that while
he was muttering his charms stones would fall and
strike the windows. Finally the astrologer brought
the chief, who had been living in a separate room,
in GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 151
and tried to exorcize the ghost that was possessing
him. The patient began by being very violent,
but a sound thrashing which the astrologer and his
assistants administered unsparingly at last reduced
the sufferer to a better frame of mind. A sacrificial
fire-pit was made and a lemon placed between it
and the chief. The astrologer commanded the
ghost to enter the lemon. But the ghost, speaking
from the chief's body, said, “ Who are you ? If one
of your gods were to come, I would not quit this
man for him.” Thus they went on from morning
till noon. At last they came outside, and, by burn­
ing various kinds of incense and sprinkling many
charms, they induced the ghost to enter into the
lemon. When, thus inspired, the lemon began to
bounce about, the whole of the spectators praised the
astronomer, crying out, “ The ghost has gone into
the lemon ! The ghost has gone into the lemon ! ”
The chief himself who had been possessed was now
perfectly satisfied that the ghost had gone out of him
and into the lemon. The astronomer then drove the
lemon out of the city, followed by drummers and
trumpeters, and if the lemon diverged from the right
path, the astrologer with a tap of his wand would
guide it back into the way it should go. On the
track they sprinkled mustard and salt and finally
buried the lemon in a pit seven cubits deep, throwing
into the hole above it mustard and salt, and above
these dust and stones, and filling in the space
between the stones with lead. At each corner too,
the astrologer drove in an iron nail, two feet long,
152 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 153
which he had previously charmed. The lemon thus
buried and nailed down, the people returned home,
and we are told, and without being unduly credu­
lous we may readily believe, that nobody ever saw
that ghost again.1
Akin to the process of trdga is the process of
Dharna, whichwas commonly practised by a creditor
to extort payment from a recalcitrant debtor. The
ordinary method of Dharna was for the creditor to
sit starving himself at the door of the person from
whom redress was sought until the debtor consented
to pay his debt, from fear of being haunted by his
creditor’s ghost if he starved himself to death. Or
instead of threatening to starve himself to death the
creditor might stand at his debtor’s door with an
enormous weight on his head, and to declare that if
payment were refused he would stand there till he
died. This seldom failed to produce the desired
effect, but if he actually died under the weight, the
debtor’s house was razed to the ground and he and
his family were sold for the benefit of the creditor’s
heirs.2
In China a similar dread of the ghosts of suicides
has prevailed, and has led to similar practices. We
are told that among the Chinese “ the firm belief
in ghosts and their retributive justice has still other
effects. It deters from grievous and provoking in­
justice, because the wronged party, thoroughly
sure of the avenging power of his own spirit when
1 R. V, Russell, The Tribes and 2 R. V. Russell, op. cit. ii. pp.
Castes of the Central Provinces of 265 sq.
India (London, 1916), ii. pp. 259-262.
disembodied, will not always shrink from converting
himself into a wrathful ghost by committing suicide.
It is still fresh in our memory how such a course was
followed in 1886 by a shopkeeper in Amoy, pressed
hard by a usurer, who had brought him to the verge
of ruin. To extort payment, this man ran off with
the shutters of his shop, thus giving its contents a
prey to burglars ; but in that same night the wretch
hanged himself against his persecutor’s door-post,
the sight of his corpse setting the whole ward in
commotion at daybreak, and bringing all the family
he had storming to the spot. The usurer, frightened
out of his wits, had no alternative but to pay them
a considerable indemnification, with an additional
sum for the burial expenses, on which they pledged
their promise to abstain from bringing him up be­
fore the magistrate. Pending those noisy negotia­
tions, the corpse remained untouched where it hung.
Thus the usurer had a hairbreadth escape from jail,
flagellation and other judicial woes, but whether he
slipped also through the hands of his etherized
victim, we were never told. It impressed us on that
occasion to hear from the Chinese that occurrences
of this kind were very far from rare, and they told
us a good many, then fresh in everybody’s
memory.” 1
Again we read that “ the prevalence of suicide
is a feature of Mukden as of most Chinese cities.
Certain peculiarities of Chinese justice render it a
1 J. J. M. De Groot, The Religious System of China (Leiden, 1901), vol.
v. Book II. pp. 450 sq.
154 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 155
favourite way of wreaking spite upon an employer
or neighbour, who is haunted besides by the spirit
of the self-murderer. Hence servants angry with
their masters, shopmen with their employers, wives
with their husbands, and above all daughters-in-
law with their mothers-in-law, show their spite by
dying on their premises, usually by opium, or eating
the tops of lucifer matches ! It is quite a common
thing for a person who has a grudge against another
to go and poison himself in his courtyard, securing
revenge first by the mandarin’s inquiry and next by
the haunting terrors of his malevolent spirit. Young
girls were daily poisoning themselves with lucifer
matches to escape from the tyranny of mothers-in-
law and leave unpleasantness behind them.” 1 With
regard to the Chinese fear of the ghosts of suicides
we are informed that they are taught in their al­
manacs that if on any given day and hour of any
month they feel headache or pain in their bones
“ it is because they have unwittingly come in con­
tact, at some corner of their house within or without,
with the ghosts of men or women who have com­
mitted suicide by drowning or hanging or poison.
In consequence of this impolite approach to the
spirits, the god of the furnace is ill at ease, or the
ancestors of the man are disturbed. The remedy is
to make an apology to the ghost so rudely offended,
and to present a propitiatory offering consisting of
two or five hundred paper cash, a paper horse on
which the ghost is requested to ride away, and a
1 Mrs. Bishop, Korea and Her Neighbours (London, 1898), i. 241.
156 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
bowl of water and rice as an inducement to com­
mence the journey requested.” 1
The Wotyaks, a people of Asiatic affinities settled
in Russia, stand in great fear of the spirits of the
dead, and in particular of the ghosts of suicides.
Hence when a man has a grudge at somebody he
will sometimes hang himself in his enemies' court­
yard, or stab himself to death, in order that after
his death his ghost may haunt and persecute his foe.
The writer who reports this custom suggests that the
peaceable disposition of the Wotyaks is partly to be
explained by this fear of the spirits of the dead, fear
being apparently among them a more potent motive
than love in their attitude towards the departed.®
With regard to the Bannavs, a people of Indo-
China inhabiting the mountains between Tonkin
and Siam, we are told that suicide has a stigma in
their penal code. The suicide is buried in a corner
of the forest far from the graves of his brethren, and
all who have assisted at the burial are required to
purify themselves afterwards in a special manner.3
Though we are not informed of it by our authority
we may assume that this purification is intended to
free the mourners from the dangerous influence of
the suicide's ghost.
In ancient Greece it was customary at Athens
to cut off the right hand of a suicide and bury it
1 J. Preston, “ Charms and Spells
in use amongst the Chinese ” , in
China Review, vol. ii. (1873-1874)
p. 169.
2 Max Buch, Die Wotjaken (Hel­
singfors, 1882), 147 sq.
3 Le Compte in M. H. Mouhot,
Travels in the Central Parts of
Indo-China (London, 1864), h. pp.
27 sq.
Ill GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 157
apart from his body, no doubt in order to disarm
his ghost, by depriving him of the use of his right
hand.1 Similar precautions have been taken in
modern Europe to prevent the ghosts of suicides
from doing a mischief to the living. In England a
person against whom a coroner’s jury had found a
verdict of suicide used to be buried at cross-roads
with a stake driven through the body, no doubt to
prevent the ghost from walking, and attacking the
survivors.2 In Pomerania and West Prussia the
ghosts of suicides are much feared. Such persons
are buried, not in the churchyard, but at the place
where they took their lives, and every passer-by
must cast a stone or a stick on the spot, or the ghost
of the suicide will haunt him by night and give him
no rest. Hence the piles of sticks or stones accumu­
lated on the graves of these poor wretches some­
times attain a considerable size.8 With regard to
the customs and beliefs concerning suicides in Den­
mark, Dr. Feilberg, an excellent authority on the
folk - lore of his native land, writes as follows:
“ Whilst on the subject I will mention a custom of
earlier times when burying suicides ; the dead
person was not carried through the churchyard gate,
but lifted over the outer mound, dragged down on
the opposite side, and placed to the north of the
church. In times still further back a rope was
1 Aeschines, In Ctesiphontem, 244. hiiufung bei Ermordeten oder Selbst-
Cf. E. Westermarck, The Origin and mordern ” , in Verhandlungen der
Development of the Moral Ideas Berliner Gesellschaft fu r Anthro-
(London, 1908), ii. 248. pologie, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte
2 Westermarck, op, cit. ii. 256. (1888), p. 569, bound up with Zeit-
a A. Treichel, “ Reisig- und Stein- sckrift fur Ethnologie, xx. (188S).
attached to the body, it was then dragged by wild
horses and buried wherever the rope happened to
break, or else the corpse was thrown among carrion
in the gallows ditch, whereby one also interfered
with the suicide after death. For no poor human
soul can find rest unless the funeral rites have been
properly observed, and to these belong more
especially according to the popular belief, the hav­
ing prayers read over him, and being buried in
consecrated ground. When manners became milder,
the suicide was allowed to rest in the churchyard,
but was to be buried either before sunrise or after
sunset. I myself have been present on such occa­
sions. The grave, to distinguish it from those of the
honest dead, might be dug from north to south
instead of from east to west. That is an insult, and
has been done towards other dead (besides suicides)
to tease them. The intended insult has always been
felt by the person in question, and been revenged
by malicious haunting. When one compares all the
many other examples which point in the same direc­
tion, I have no doubt that when the suicide’s coffin
is carried in over the mound, it is to prevent its ghost
finding its way out of the churchyard, as it will be
stopped by the hedge.” 1 In Bulgaria the bodies
of suicides may not be buried at all in the church­
yard.8 A similar prohibition to bury the bodies of
suicides within a churchyard used to be strictly
observed in the north-east of Scotland. On this
1 Dr. H. F. Feilberg, “ The Corpse 2 A. Strauss, Die Bulgaren (Leip-
Door” , in Folk-Lore, xviii. (1907) zig, 1898)^.455.
PP 369^
158 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
subject the Rev. Walter Gregor, a high authority
on the folk-lore of that district, writes as follows.
“ Peculiar horror was manifested towards suicides.
Such were not buried in the churchyard. It is not
much over half a century since a fierce fight took
place in a churchyard in the middle of Banffshire,
to prevent the burial of a suicide in it. By an early
hour all the strong men of the parish who were
opposed to an act so sacrilegious were astir and
hastening to the churchyard with their weapons of
defence—strong sticks. The churchyard was taken
possession of, and the walls were manned. The
gate and more accessible parts of the wall were
assigned to picked men. In due time the suicide’s
coffin appeared, surrounded by an excited crowd,
for the most part armed with sticks. Some, how­
ever, carried spades sharpened on the edge. Fierce
and long was the fight at the gate, and not a few
rolled in the dust. The assailing party was beaten
off. A grave was dug outside the churchyard, close
beneath the wall, and the coffin laid in it. The lid
was lifted, and a bottle of vitriol poured over the
body. Before the lid could be again closed, the
fumes of the dissolving body were rising thickly
over the heads of actors and spectators. This was
done to prevent the body from being lifted during
the coming night from its resting-place, conveyed
back to its abode when in life, and placed against the
door, to fall at the feet of the member of the family
that was the first to open the door in the morning.
The self-murderer’s grave was on the boundary of
hi GHOSTS OF SUICIDES 159
two lairds’ lands, and was marked by a single stone
or a small cairn, to which the passing traveller was
bound to cast a stone. It was the prevailing idea
that nothing would grow over the grave of a suicide,
or on the spot on which a murder had been com­
mitted. After the suicide’s body was allowed to be
buried in the churchyard, it was laid below the wall
in such a position that one could not step over the
grave. This was done under the belief that, if a
woman enceinte stepped over such a grave, her child
would quit this earth by her own act.” 1 In Scotland
the bodies of suicides are now buried on the north
side of the churchyard with the head to the east
whereas all other dead are buried with their feet to
the east. The fisher folk think that after such a
burial the herring will forsake the coast for seven
years. Hence sometimes they dig up the corpse by
night and bury it on the shore at low water mark,
or on the top of a mountain out of sight of the sea,
that the herring may not be scared. Such burials
have occurred on the top of Aird Dubh, and also
on a mountain bounding Inverness and Ross-shire.2
At Lochbroom, in Scotland, the people believe that
if the body of a suicide be interred within any burial
ground which is within sight of the sea or of culti­
vated land this would prove disastrous both to fishing
and agriculture, or, in the words of the people,
would cause “ famine (or dearth) on sea and land ” ;
hence the custom has been to bury suicides in out-
1 W. Gregor, Notes on the Folk- 2 C. F. Gordon Cumming, In the
lore of the North-east of Scotland Hebrides (London, 1883), p. 185.
(London, 1881), pp. 213 sq.
160 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill G H O STS OF T H O SE D Y IN G V IO L E N T L Y 161
of-the-way places among the lonely solitudes of the
mountains.1
III. Ghosts of Persons who have died a violent
death other than murder or suicide
The souls of persons who have been killed either
by others or by themselves are by no means the only
spirits of the dead whom primitive man. regards
with a more than ordinary degree of apprehension.
In his list of peculiarly dangerous ghosts he in­
cludes the spirits of all who have died a violent
death other than murder or suicide; for, their natural
term of life having been prematurely cut short, he
believes that they are indignant and ready to
visit their displeasure on all and sundry, without
discriminating nicely between the innocent and the
guilty. In countries like India, where wild beasts
abound, and are the causes of many deaths, the real
terror of such a death is augmented oreven redoubled
in the minds of the natives by the purely imaginary
terror of the victim's ghost. Thus, for example,
among the Baigas, a primitive Dravidian people of
the Central Provinces in India, when a man has been
killed by a tiger, a Baiga priest goes to the spot and
there makes a small cone out of the blood-stained
3 E. Westermarck, op. cit. ii. 255, § 756 ; Dr. R. Lasch, u Die Behand-
citing Ross in Celtic Magazine, xii. lung der Leiche des Selbstniorders ” ,
p. 350 sq. On the customs and in Globus, lxxvi. (1S99) PP* 63 sqq. ;
superstitions as to suicide, see further E. Westermarck, op. cit. ii. pp. 229-
A. Wuttke, Der deutscke Volksaber- 264.
glaube der Gegenzvart (Berlin, 1S69),
VOL. I ll M
earth. This must represent a man, either the dead
man or one of his living kinsmen. His companions
having retired a few paces, the priest goes on his
hands and knees and performs a series of antics
which are supposed to represent the tiger in the
act of destroying the man, at the same time seizing
the lump of blood-stained earth in his jaws. One
of the party then runs up and taps him on the back
with a small stick. This perhaps means that the
tiger is killed or otherwise rendered harmless ;
and the Baiga immediately lets the mud cone fall
into the hands of one of the party. It is then placed
in an ant-hill and a pig is sacrificed over it. The
next day a small chicken is brought to the place,
and when a mark supposed to be the dead man's
name has been made on its head with red ochre,
it is thrown back again into the forest, the priest
crying out, “ Take this and go home”. The cere­
mony is supposed to lay the dead man’s ghost, and
at the same time to prevent the tiger from doing any
further damage. The Baigas believe that the ghost
of the victim, if it is not charmed to rest, will reside
on the head of the tiger and incite him to further
deeds of blood, rendering him also secure from harm
by his preternatural watchfulness.1 Among the
Bhatra, another primitive tribe in the Central
Provinces in India, when a man has been killed by
a tiger his spirit must be propitiated. The priest
ties strips of tiger-skin to his arms, and the feathers
1 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and The Highlands of Central India
Castes of the Central Provinces of (London, 1871), pp. 362 sq.
India, ii. 84; and Capt. J. Forsyth,
i6z THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS OF THOSE DYING VIOLENTLY 163
of the blue jay to his waist, and thus disguised
jumps about pretending to be a tiger. A package
of two hundred pounds of rice is made up, and the
priest sits on it and finally takes it away with him.
If the dead man had any ornaments they must all
be given, however valuable, lest his ghost should
hanker after them and return to look for them in
the shape of a tiger. The large quantity of rice
given to the priest is also probably intended as a
provision of the best food for the dead man’s spirit,
lest it be hungry and come in the shape of a tiger
to satisfy its appetite upon the surviving kinsfolk.
The laying of ghosts of persons killed by tigers is
thus a very profitable affair for the priests.1 The
Dumal are an agricultural caste of the Central
Provinces in India who have recently been trans­
ferred to Orissa and Bihar. Among them if two
or more persons in a family have been killed by
tigers, a magician is called in, and he pretends to
be the tiger, and to bite someone in the family,
who is carried as a corpse to the burial-ground,
there buried for a short time, and then taken out
again. All the ceremonies of mourning are ob­
served for him for one day. This proceeding is
believed to secure immunity for the family from
further attacks ; doubtless also it is thought to
appease the ghosts of the men whose bodies have
been devoured by tigers. In return for his services
the magician gets a share of everything in the house
corresponding to what he would receive, supposing
1 Russell, op. cit. ii. 274 sq.
he were a member of the family, on a partition.1
Among the Gonds of Bastar, a great Dravidian
tribe of India, when a man has been killed by a
tiger and his widow marries again, she goes through
the ceremony not with her new husband but with
a lance, axe, or sword, or with a dog. It is believed
that the tiger into which her first husband's spirit
has entered will try to kill her second husband, but
owing to the precaution taken he will either simply
carry off the dog or will himself get killed by an
axe, sword or lance.2 Among these Gonds also
the soul of a man who has been devoured by a
tiger must be specially propitiated, and ten or twelve
days are occupied in bringing it back. To ascer­
tain when the soul has come back a thread is tied
to a beam and a copper ring is suspended from it,
being secured by twisting the thread round it and
not by a knot. A pot full of water is placed below
the ring. Songs are then sung in propitiation of
the spirit, and a watch is kept day and night. When
the ring falls from the thread and drops into the
water it is believed that the soul has come back.
If the ring delays to fall they implore the dead man
to come back and ask where he has gone to and why
he is tarrying. Animals are sacrificed to the ring
and their blood poured over it, and when it finally
falls they rejoice greatly and say that the dead man
has come back. A man who has been killed by a
tiger or a cobra may receive general veneration,
for the purpose of propitiating his spirit, and so may
164 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
1 Russell, op. cit. ii. 536. 2 Russell, op. cit. iii. 81.
become a village god.1 Among the Halbas, a
caste of cultivators and farm-servants in the Central
Provinces of India, if a person has been killed by a
tiger, the people go out, and if they find any re­
mains of the body these are burned on the spot.
The priest is then invoked to call back the spirit of
the deceased, which is deemed a most essential pre­
caution. In order to do this he suspends a copper
ring on a long thread above a vessel of water and
then burns butter and sugar on the fire, muttering
incantations, while the people sing songs and call
on the spirits of the dead man to return. The
thread swings to and fro, and at length the ring falls
into the pot, and this is accepted as a sign that the
spirit has come and entered the vessel. The mouth
of the vessel is immediately covered and it is buried
or kept in some secure place. The people believe
that unless the dead man’s spirit is thus secured it
will accompany the tiger and lure solitary travellers
to destruction. This is done by calling out and
offering them tobacco to smoke, and when they go
in the direction of the voice the tiger springs out
and kills them. “ The malevolence thus attributed
to persons killed by tigers is explained by their
bitter wrath at having encountered such an un­
timely death and consequent desire to entice others
to the same.” 2 The Kalanga, a caste of culti­
vators in the Central Provinces of India, make offer­
ings to the spirits of their dead in a certa'in month of
the year,- but they make no such offerings to the
hi GHOSTS OF THOSE DYING VIOLENTLY 165
1 R ussell, op. c it. iii. 95. 2 R ussell, op. cit. iii. 195 sq.
i66 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
spirits of persons who have died a violent death.
The spirits of these latter must be laid lest they
should trouble the living, and this is done in the
following manner: a handful of rice is placed at
the threshold of the house, and a ring is hung by
a thread so as to touch the rice. A goat is then
brought up, and when it eats the rice the spirit
of the dead person is believed to have entered into
the goat, which is thereupon killed and eaten by
the family so as to dispose of him once for all. If
the goat will not eat the rice it is forced to do so.
The spirit of a man who has been killed by a tiger
must, however, be laid by the sorcerer of the caste,
who goes through the ceremony of pretending to be
a tiger and of mauling another sorcerer.1 Among
the Kawars, a primitive tribe in the Central Pro­
vinces in India, when a man has been killed by a
tiger they perform a ceremony called “ Breaking
the string ” or the connexion which they believe
the animal establishes with a family on having
tasted its blood. Otherwise they think that the
tiger would gradually kill off all the remaining
members of the family of his victim. In this cere­
mony the village medicine-man (Baiga) is painted
with red ochre and soot to represent the tiger, and
proceeds to the place where the victim was carried
off. Having picked up some of the blood-stained
earth in his mouth, he tries to run away to the jungle,
but the spectators hold him back until he spits out
the earth. This represents the tiger being forced
1 Russell, op. cit. iii. 308.
to give up his prey. The medicine-man then ties
a string round all the members of the dead man’s
family standing together. He places some grain
before a fowl saying, “ If my charm has worked,
eat of this ” ; and as soon as the fowl has eaten
some grain the medicine-man states that his efforts
have been successful and the attraction of the man-
eater has been broken. He then breaks the string
and all the party return to the village. A similar
ceremony is performed when a man has died of
snake-bite.1 In both cases the ceremony is prob­
ably supposed to appease the angry ghosts of the
persons killed by a tiger or a cobra.
Among the Kir, a caste of cultivators in the
Central Provinces of India, great respect is paid to
the spirit of a relative who has died a violent death,
or died as a bachelor or without progeny, the spirits
of such persons being always prone to trouble their
living kinsfolk. In order to appease them songs are
sung in their praise on important festivals, the mem­
bers of the family staying awake the whole night,
and wearing their images on a silver piece round
the neck. When they eat and drink they first touch
the food with the image by way of offering to the
dead, so that their spirits may be appeased and
refrain from harassing the living.® The Kurmis,
a great cultivating class of Hindustan, believe that
the spirits of their dead return to their old homes
in the dark fortnight of the month Kunwar (Sep­
tember-October). On the thirteenth day of that
1 Russell, op. cit. iii, 398-399. 2 Russell, op. cit. iii. 483.
Ill GHOSTS OF THOSE DYING VIOLENTLY 167
fortnight come the spirits of all those who have died
a violent death, as by a fall, or have been killed
by wild animals or snakes. The spirits of such per­
sons are supposed, on account of their untimely end,
to entertain a special grudge against the living.1
Among the Panwar, a famous Rajput clan found
in the Central Provinces of India, when a man has
been killed by a tiger {bagh) he is deified and wor­
shipped as the tiger god {Bagh Deo). A hut is made
in the yard of the house, and an image of a tiger
placed inside and worshipped on the anniversary
of the man’s death. The members of the house­
hold will not afterwards kill a tiger, because they
think that the animal has become a member of the
family. A man who dies from the bite of a cobra
{nag) is similarly worshipped as the cobra god {Nag
Deo). The image of a snake made of silver or iron
is venerated by the family, and the members of it
will not kill a snake. If a man is killed by some
other animal, or by drowning or a fall from a tree,
his spirit is worshipped as the forest god {Ban Deo)
with similar rites, being represented by a little lump
of rice and red lead.2 Before sacrificing to their bene­
ficent ancestral spirits, the Sansia or Uria—a caste
of masons and navvies in the Central Provinces of
India—are wont to offer two sacrifices to the spirits
of ancestors who have died a violent death or have
committed suicide, and to the spirits of relatives
who died unmarried, for fear lest these unclean and
malignant spirits should seize and defile the offer-
168 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
1 Russell, op. cit. iv. 79 sq. 2 Russell, op. cit. iv. 346 sq.
Ill GH O STS OF TH O SE D Y IN G V IO L E N T L Y 169
ings made to the kindly ancestral spirits.1 Among
the Savars, a primitive tribe of the Central Pro­
vinces in India, if a man has died a violent death, a
small platform is raised in his honour under a teak
tree, in which the ghost of the dead man is supposed
to take up its residence, and nobody thereafter may
cut down that tree. In such a case the Uriya Savars
take no special measures unless the ghost of such a
man appears to somebody in a dream and asks to
be worshipped as Baghiapat (tiger-eaten) or Masan
(serpent-bitten). When this happens they consult a
sorcerer, and take such measures as he may prescribe
to appease the dead man’s ghost.2
The Oraons, a primitive aboriginal tribe, inhabit­
ing the secluded plateau of Chota Nagpur in North­
ern India, believe that the spirits of persons who
have been killed by tigers assume the form of tigers
and prowl about at night near their old homes
which they seek to enter. To drive away these
unquiet spirits the help of a spirit-doctor is called
in. A man not belonging to the family is made to
personate the tiger. His body is painted in colours
like those of the tiger, coloured earth being used
for the purpose. A tail is also provided. Thus ar­
rayed, the man stands in the manner of a tiger on
his hands and legs, to which four ropes are tied.
Four men hold him by the ropes, and he is led on,
all the while fretting and fuming and snarling and
gnashing his teeth and otherwise imitating the
manner of a tiger. The spirit-doctor follows the
1 Russell, op. cit. iv. 49S. 2 Russell, op. cit. iv. 507.
170 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
mock tiger, and makes a show of driving it away.
As this sham tiger is driven away from the village
the ghost of the tiger’s victim is supposed to be
simultaneously banished from the neighbourhood.
A fowl or some other sacrifice as dictated by the
spirit-doctor is offered to the tiger-ghost by the
spirit-doctor, as a further inducement for him to go
away. Then the sham tiger is bathed and brought
back home. At the house a feast is provided for
the family and fellow-villagers.1
Among the Kachins of Burma the souls of per­
sons who have died a violent or unnatural death do
not receive the usual funeral honours, because it is
believed that they have become malignant spirits
ready and willing to cause harm and misfortune to
the living. In these cases the body is invariably
cremated, never buried, and no time is lost in dis­
posing of the corpse. All the usual marks of respect
are omitted, and the priest does not even go through
the ceremony of sending off the spirit to the spirit
land. The place for the cremation is chosen as far
from the village as possible. All the property of
the deceased goes with him, and food and some fire
from the house are placed beside the open hollow
in which his body has been cremated. A white
cord is drawn round four saplings stuck in the
ground near the property. The spirits of all such
persons go west, in the direction of the setting sun,
so the priest gives no directions as to the route to
1 S. C. Roy, Oraon Religion and on the Chota Nagpur Plateau ” , in
Custom (Ranchi, 1928), p. 98. Cf. the Journal of the Royal Anthropo-
S. C. Roy, ** Magic and Witchcraft logical Institute, xliv. (1914) p. 346.
be followed. Nevertheless every Kachin house con­
tains an image of the Gumgun nat; that is, the spirit
of an ancestor who has met with a violent or un­
natural death and whose spirit has returned to its
former home or the home where kinsfolk are living,
and requires propitiation, and can in turn help the
living. The altar to the spirit is usually placed
against the left-hand walling of each house nearest
the back entrance. The altar may not be touched :
any stranger interfering with it would give great
offence and might meet with violence.1 Among
the Palaungs of Burma, when anyone dies a mys­
teriously sudden death, or is killed, his body is
buried as quickly as possible in a lonely part of
the jungle at some distance from the village. The
grave is generally dug beside a large tree, because
the spirits of all people dying suddenly are believed
to remain near their bodies, haunting the place where
they are buried. Their time to die had not yet
come, and the spirit could not yet go to eat of the
fruit of forgetfulness. Such a spirit is wicked, hurt­
ful, and jealous, and the only hope for its happi­
ness is to give it the chance of a pleasant and shady
tree for its home. The funeral customs, such as
tying coins to the wrist, are the same as usual ;
but if the person has been found dead in the jungle,
his corpse would not be brought back to the village,
but would be buried near where he died.2 There is
a general belief among the Burmese and Shans that
1W. J. S. Carrapiett, The Kachin 2 Mrs. Leslie Milne, The Home
Tribes of Burma (Rangoon, 1929), of an Eastern Clan. p. 304.
pp. 46, 7S.
ill GHOSTS OF THOSE DYING VIOLENTLY 171
172 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
the spirits of human beings who have been killed
by an elephant ride on the animal’s head, warning
him of his approach to pitfalls and hunters, and
guiding him to where he may kill people, so as to
add to their own ghostly company.1 In Cambodia
all persons who die a natural death are buried
according to the course of the sun with their heads
to the west; but all who die a violent death or by
accident—such as by a fall—or drowning, or murder,
or suicide, or the sting or bite of wild animals, are
buried across the course of the sun, with their heads
to the north, in order to prevent their spirits from
returning to afflict their families.1
2 In Korea the
spirits of all those who die sudden or violent deaths
are believed to become evil demons who haunt and
torment the living in endless ways.3
Like so many other peoples, the Kiwai Papuans
of British New Guinea greatly fear the ghosts of
persons who have met with a violent death, or have
otherwise died in some unusual way. The spirits
of people who have been drowned or killed by a
crocodile or a snake, and also those of suicides, are
greatly feared because they will try to entice friends
into a like death. The spirit of a man killed by a
crocodile is called sibara-adiri. It is thought to
carry on its back a “ ghost-crocodile ”, which it
may throw upon another man, who is then doomed
1 H. S. Hallett, A Thousand
Miles on an Elephant in the Shan
States (Edinburgh and London,
1890), pp. 377 sq.
2 M. S. Aymonier, “ Notes sur
les coutumes et croyances super-
stitieuses des Cambodgiens ” , in
Excursions et reconnaisances, No.
16 (Saigon, 1S83), p. 202.
8 Mrs, Bishop, Korea and its
Neighbours, ii. 242.
Ill GHOSTS OF THOSE DYING VIOLENTLY 173
to be killed in the same way. The “ghost-crocodile”
is believed to be carried by the man’s ghost all the
way to the land of the dead ; and this may reveal
the cause of death to people who have the faculty
of seeing spirits. Such an apparition forbodes a
similar death to anyone to whom it appears, but
this fate can be averted if some friend of the man
involved contrives to separate the crocodile from its
bearer ; otherwise it is inevitable. In order to lay
the ghost of a man killed by a crocodile the people
build a small hut, like that erected on graves, at the
place where the man met his death, and put food
inside. They wish the spirit to remain there, and
say to him, “ Do not come back to where people are
living. You are now a ghost: stay here, this is
your house.” If this is not done, the ghost, who
does not wish to be alone, will come and fetch one
of his friends to suffer the like fate. Another means
of protection against such a fate is this : a man will
burn part of a crocodile’s tail to ashes and mix them
with clay, and out of this form a ball, which he
throws far away into the river. Or he fastens the
piece of crocodile’s tail to a stick, wades into the
water with it, and fixes the stick to the bottom. In
both cases he utters the following spell: “ You are
a crocodile spirit. Go far away, and stay there for
ever.” This adjuration prevents the crocodile ghost
from attacking people.1
Among the Wandamba of Tanganyika in East
Africa, if the hunter of an elephant has the mis-
1 G. Landtman, The Kiwai Papuans of British New Guinea} pp. 2S3 sq*
174 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
fortune to be killed by an animal, his companions
bury him on the spot, and the chief medicine-man
puts some powder and medicine into the dead man’s
hands, and also pours a little on the ground at the
foot of an adjacent tree, and sweeps round the grave
vowing vengeance on the animal, for the death of
their friend. Then the party go off, and when they
have killed the elephant the head medicine-man
puts a little powder into the palm of his hand and
blows it away to let the dead man know that he had
been avenged. Afterwards he returns to the hunter’s
grave with some of the elephant’s blood, which he
pours on the powder to appease the spirit of the
deceased.1 The curious rites which the Ewe people
of Togo perform after the death of a person who
has been killed by snake-bite have already been
described.2
Among the Huron Indians of Canada, when any­
one died by drowning or cold it was believed that
Heaven was angry with the people, and must be
appeased by sacrifice. They summoned the in­
habitants of the neighbouring villages and held
a feast and distributed presents freely, thinking
that the matter concerned the whole country. The
corpse was carried to the cemetery and laid on a mat.
On one side of it a grave was dug in the ground
and on the other side a fire was made for the sacrifice.
At the same time several young men chosen by their
1 A. G. O, Hodgson, “ Some Notes Royal Anthropological Institute, Ivi.
on the Hunting Customs of the (1926), p. 64.
Wandaxnba of the Wanga Valley,
Tanganyika ” , in theJournal of the 2 See above, p. 11.
relations took their stand round about the corpse
with their knives in their hands. The priest, who
was described as the protector of the deceased,
marked with charcoal the parts of the corpse which
were to be cut. The young men set to work with
their knives hacking off the fleshy parts. Finally
they cut open the body and drew out the entrails
and threw them on the fire together with the fleshy
parts which they had severed. Then they laid the
mangled remains in the grave. While the young
men were hacking at the corpse women went round
them, encouraging them to ply their work well for
the good of the whole country, at the same time
putting beads as a further encouragement into the
mouths of the operators. Sometimes the mother of
the deceased, bathed in tears, joined the party,
lamenting the death of her son in a doleful chant.
By these rites the Hurons believed that they ap­
peased the wrath of Heaven; but if they w
T
ere to
omit them they thought that any accidents or mis­
fortunes that might befall them were the effects of
Heaven’s displeasure at the sacrilege.1
I
V
.
m GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 175
IV . Ghosts of Women dying in Childbed
The ghosts of women dying in childbed are
commonly believed to be dangerous in a peculiarly
high degree, and very special precautions are taken
1 Relations des Jesuites, 1636 Histoire de la Nouvelle - France
(Canadian reprint, Quebec, 1858) (Paris, 1744), v. no.
p. 10S. P. F. X. de Charlevoix,
to guard against them.1 The belief and the practice
consequent upon it are particularly prevalent in some
parts of India, and all over the Malay region to the
east. Thus the Hindus of the Punjab believe that
if a mother dies within thirteen days of her delivery,
she will return in the guise of a malignant spirit to
torment her husband and family. To prevent this
some people drive nails through her head and eyes,
while others also knock nails on either side of the
door of the house.2 A gentler way of attaining the
same end is to put a nail or a piece of iron into the
clothes of the poor dead mother.3 The ghost of
such a woman is called a Churel. She is particularly
malignant towards members of her own family.
She appears in various forms, sometimes she is fair
in front and black behind, but she invariably has her
feet turned round, heels in front and toes behind.
However she generally assumes the form of a beauti­
ful woman and seduces youths at night, especially
the handsome. She carries them off to some king­
dom of her own, and if they venture to eat the food
offered to them there she keeps them till they lose
their manly beauty. Then she sends them back to
the world grey-haired old men, where, like Rip Van
Winkle, they find all their friends dead long ago.4
Among the Gurao, a caste of village priests in the
1 Cf. Psyche's Task (The Devil's 3 G. F. D’Penha, “ Superstitions
Advocate), pp. 133 sqq., where some and Customs in Salsette ” , in The
of the evidence here cited has been Indian Antiquary, xxviii. (1899)
previously adduced. p. 115.
a H. A. Rose, u Hindu Birth
Observances in the Punjab ” , in 4 W. Crooke, Popular Religion
Journalofthe RoyalAnthropological and Folk-lore of Northern India
Institute, xxxvii. (1907) pp. 225 sq. (Westminster, 1896), i. pp. 269 sq.
176 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 177
Central Provinces of India, when the corpse of a
woman who has died in childbed is being carried to
the burning ground various rites are observed to
prevent her spirit from becoming a malignant ghost
(Churel) and troubling the living. A lemon charmed
by a magician is buried under her corpse and a man
follows the body strewing the seeds rala, while nails
are driven into the threshold of the house.1 Among
the Kurmis, the representative cultivating caste of
Hindustan, if a woman has died in childbirth, or
after the birth of a child and before the performance
of the sixth-day ceremony of purification, her hands
are tied with a cotton thread when she is buried,
in order that her spirit may be unable to rise and
trouble the living. It is believed that the souls ofsuch
women become evil spirits (Churels). Thorns are
also placed over her grave for the same purpose.2
In Bombay it is believed that the souls of women
dying in childbed enter the order of ghosts variously
known as Chudels, Vantris, or Takshamis. In order
that the spirit of such a woman may not return
from the cremation ground, mustard seeds are
strewn along the road behind her bier, for a belief
prevails that her ghost can only succeed in returning
if she can gather all the mustard seeds thus strewn
on the way. In some places loose cotton-wool is
thrown over the bier so as to be scattered all along
the road to the cemetery. It is thought that the
ghost can only return to the house if she'can collect
1 R. V. Russell, Tribes and Castes 1S0 sq.
of the Central Provinces, ii. pp. 2 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 78.
VOL. I ll N
all the cotton scattered behind her in one night.
This is deemed an impossible task, and consequently
her friends at home entertain no fear of the return
of the ghost when once the cotton has been scattered.
To prevent the return of such a ghost, some people
pass underneath the bier the legs of the cot on which
the woman lay in her confinement, while others
drive in an iron nail at the end of the street im­
mediately after the corpse has been carried beyond
the village boundary. In some places the nail is
driven into the threshold of the house. Even after
these ceremonies have been observed to prevent the
return of the ghost of such a woman, other rites
are performed, and a number of Brahman women
feasted on the twelfth and thirteenth day after death
to propitiate her departed soul, for the fear of the
mischief she may do is very strong.1 In Travancore
the spirits of women who die in pregnancy are
believed to become demons. Their bodies accord­
ingly are carried away to some distant spot in the
jungle, and there incantations are pronounced over
them to prevent their ghosts from returning and
molesting the survivors.2
The Oraons of Chota Nagpur are firmly con­
vinced that every woman who dies in pregnancy or
childbirth becomes an evil and dangerous spirit
(bhut), who, if steps are not taken to keep her off,
will come back and tickle to death those whom she
loved best hi life. "T o prevent her, therefore, from
1 R. E. Enthoven, The Folk-Lore 2 S. Mateer, Native Life in
of Bombay (Oxford, 1924), p. 197. Travancore (London, 1883), p. 90.
178 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
coming back, they carry her body as far away as
they can, but no woman will accompany her to
her last resting-place lest similar misfortune should
happen to her. Arrived at the burial-place, they
break the feet above the ankle, twist them round,
bringing the heels in front, and then drive long
thorns into them. They bury her very deep with
her face downwards, and with her they bury the
bones of a donkey, and pronounce the anathema
‘ If you come home may you turn into a donkey : ’
and the roots of a palm-tree are also buried with
her; and they say, ‘ May you come home only
when the leaves of the palm-tree wither’, and
when they retire they spread mustard-seeds all
along the road saying, ‘When you come home,
pick up all these ’. They then feel pretty safe at
home from her nocturnal visits, but woe to the
man who passes at night near to the place where
she has been buried. She will pounce upon him,
twist his neck, and leave him senseless upon the
ground, until brought to by the incantations of a
sorcerer.” 1
To complete this account of the quaint rites
observed in such cases by the Oraons I will subjoin
the report of another highly-competent witness, the
Indian ethnologist, Mr Sarat Chandra Roy, who
has made a special study of the tribe. “ A Churil
or Churel or Malech is the ghost of a woman dying
in pregnancy or childbirth or within a few days of it.
1 Rev. P. Dehon, “ Religion and Customs of the Uraons ’% in Memoirs
of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, vol. i. No. 9 (Calcutta, 1906), pp, 139 sq.
ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 179
A Churil spirit, it is said, carries a load of coal upon
its head, imagining it to be its baby. It is believed
that if a Churil spirit sees any man passing by its
grave it pursues him and takes delight in tickling
him under the arms and, if possible, throwing him
down senseless and embracing him. If, however,
the man perceives the approach of a Churil by its
spectral figure which is sometimes visible or by the
rustling and shaking of the branches of some neigh­
bouring tree, and calls out the Churil by the name
which it formerly bore in life, and asks—' So-and-so
[names], is it you ? ’ the spirit forthwith decamps.
Or, when the Churil attacks him, if the man can
take away her load of charcoal, the spirit is said to
lose its power and to burst into tears. Drunken
wayfarers are naturally easy victims of this spirit.
It is with the object of preventing such spirits from
moving about, that the feet of women dying in
childbed are broken and turned backwards and
thorns inserted on the soles of their feet. When a
Churil is visible, its feet appear, it is said, to be
inverted with the heels forward. A person, par­
ticularly a drunken man, supposed to have been
chased and tormented by a Churil, is sometimes
so seriously affected that it requires the services of
a spirit-doctor (Mali or deonra) to cure him by
exorcising the spirit. When the trouble caused by
a Churil is not more serious than a griping of the
stomach or'such other ailment, a few mustard-seeds,
two grains and a half of some pulse, a little iron-
slag and a bit of charcoal are thrown outside the
180 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 181
house in the direction of the spot where the Churil
was met with.” 1
Among the Birhors, another primitive tribe living
in thejungles of Chota Nagpur, the spirit of a woman
who has died within twenty-one days of childbirth
may never be admitted into the community of an­
cestor-spirits, because such a spirit is always dan­
gerous. In her case, therefore, a new doorway in the
hut is opened through which her corpse is carried
out to the grave. Such a corpse is buried in a place
apart from the ground where other corpses are in­
terred. Women and not men bury such corpses :
the men only dig the grave and go atvay. Thorns
are thrust into the woman’s feet to prevent her ghost
from leaving the grave. The corpse in the grave is
formally made over by the spirit-doctor (mail) to
the charge of some spirit of a hill or jungle of the
neighbourhood. In doing so the spirit-doctor works
himselfup to a state ofsupposed possession, and says,
“ O, Spirit of such-and-such hill or forest! [names]
We make over so-and-so [names the deceased] to
you. Guard her well and let her remain here.”
The spirit-doctor, or rather, as is believed, the spirit
speaking through the mouth of the spirit-doctor,
says, “ I do take charge ”. If the first spirit asked
to take charge does not make such a reply, another
spirit is similarly invoked, and so on, until some
spirit agrees to take charge of the dangerous corpse.2
1 S. C. Roy: Oraon Religion and p. 258.
Customs (Ranchi, 192S), pp, 96-97.
Cf. E. T. Dalton, Descriptive Eth- 2 S. C. Roy, The Birhors (Ranchi,
nology of Bengal (Calcutta, 1872), 1925), pp. 267 sq.
Speaking of the much-dreaded spirits of these
unhappy women in Bengal generally, Sir Edward
Gait, a high authority on the subject, observes, “ But
the most malevolent of all spirits is the Churel or
Kichin, the spirit of a woman who dies in childbirth.
Her feet are turned backwards, she has no mouth,
and she haunts filthy places. She is specially feared
by women, whom she attacks during the menstrual
period, or at the time of parturition. Sometimes
she falls in love with young men, before whom she
appears in the form of a beautiful girl neatly decked
and dressed with ornaments, and whom she eventu­
ally kills by a slow process of emaciation. Like other
similar spirits, she can only be ejected by exorcism.
The fear of the Churel is by no means confined to
the Hindus. It is even more dreaded by the ab­
original tribes, and amongst the Bhuiyas of Keon-
jhar, if a woman should die before delivery, the
embryo is extracted from the corpse and the bodies
are burnt on the opposite banks of a hill stream. As
no spirit can cross water, and the mother cannot be­
come a witch unless united to her child, this pre­
caution is believed to avert all risk of evil to the
villagers.” 1
Among the Lushais of North-Eastern India, when
a woman dies in childbed, the relatives offer a sacri­
fice to her departed soul, “ but the rest of that
village treat that day as a holiday and put a small
green branch on the wall of each house on the out-
1 Sir E. A. Gait, in Census of India, 1901, vi. Bengal: Part I. (Calcutta,
1902) p. 199.
182 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 183
side near the doorpost to keep out the spirit of the
dead woman ”.x The Lakhers, a tribe of the same
region, think that the ghost of a woman who has
died in childbed becomes a dangerous spirit, to be
classed with the spirits of all who have died an un­
natural death. Her corpse may not be carried out
of the house by the doorway, but through a hole
cut in the back wall. This is done because, as the
spirits of women who have died in childbed do not
follow the road taken by the spirits of those who have
died natural deaths, but have to go by another path
to the Sawvawkhi, the place reserved in the spirit
land for the souls of all who have died an unnatural
death, it is thought that the corpse should not leave
the house by the ordinary path, but should also take
a different path to the grave.8
The Kachins of Burma are so afraid of the ghosts
of women dying in childbed that no soooner has
such a death taken place than the husband, the
children, and almost all the people in the house
take to flight lest the ghost should bite them. They
bandage the eyes of the woman with her own hair
to prevent her from seeing anything ; they wrap the
corpse in a mat and carry it out of the house, not
by the ordinary door, but by an opening made for
the purpose either in the wall or in the floor of the
room where she breathed her last. Then they con­
vey the body to a deep ravine where foot of man
seldom penetrates, and there, having*heaped her
1 Lieut.-Col. H. G. W. Cole, long, 1912) p. 140.
“ The Lushais ” , in Census of I?idiat 2 N. E. Parry, The Lakhers
1911, vol. iii. Assam: Part I. (Shii- (London, 1932), pp. 406-408.
clothes, her jewellery, and all her belongings over
her, they set fire to the pile and reduce the whole to
ashes. “ Thus they destroy all the property of the
unfortunate woman in order that her soul may not
think of coming to fetch it afterwards and to bite
the people in .the attempt.” When this has been
done the officiating priest scatters some burnt grain
of a climbing plant (.shdtnien), inserts in the earth the
pestle which the dead woman used to husk the rice,
and winds up the exorcism by cursing and railing
at her ghost, saying, “ Wait to come back till this
grain sprouts and this pestle blossoms, till the fern
bears fruit, and the cocks lay eggs ”. The house
in vrhich the woman died is generally pulled down,
and the timber may only be used as firewood or to
build small hovels in the fields. Till a new house
can be built for them, the widower and the orphans
receive the hospitality of their nearest relatives, a
father or a brother; their other friends would not
dare to receive them from fear of the ghost. Occa­
sionally the dead mother’sjewels are spared from the
fire and given away to some poor old crones who
do not trouble their head about ghosts. If the
medicine-man who attended to the woman in life
and officiated at the funeral is old, he may consent
to accept the jewels as the fee for his services ; but
in that case no sooner has he got home than he puts
the jewels in the hen-house. If the hens remain
quiet, it is a good omen and he can keep the trinkets
with an easy mind; but ifthe fowls flutter and cackle,
it is a sign that the ghost is sticking to the jewels,
184 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
and in a fright he restores them to the family. The
old man or old woman into whose hands the trinkets
of the dead woman thus sometimes fall cannot dis­
pose of them to other members of the tribe, for
nobody who knows where the things come from
would be so rash as to buy them. However, they
may find purchasers among the Shans or Chinese,
who do not fear Kachin ghosts.1
With regard to these customs and beliefs of the
Kachins, another writer, who knows the tribe well,
tells us that when a woman has died in childbed
her body is cremated, and saplings are then pro­
cured and rude representations of the male organ
of generation are carved at one end of each. These
are stuck in the ground, and bending towards the
spot where cremation took place. In returning
from the grave or cremation ground precautions
have to be taken against any assault by the dead
woman’s dangerous spirit. A long bamboo is pro­
cured, and split in half for about half way or more
of its length. One half is fixed in the ground, the
other half lying loose. Between the two halves a
wedge is inserted about three or four inches off the
ground, thus forming a triangle with the wedge
as base. All who have attended the funeral pass
through the triangle, the medicine-man and the
butcher bringing up the rear. Either of these two
knock away the wedge after passing over it and the
two halves of the bamboo close with a snap. Those
1 C h . G ilhodes, “ N aissan ce et en fan ce chez les K atch in s (B im ian ie) ” ,
in AnthropoS) vi. (1911) pp. 872 $q.
in GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 185
i86 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
who have guns fire as many shots as they can into
the bamboo to frighten and drive away the malignant
spirit.1 The passage of the mourners through the
split bamboo is no doubt another mode of eluding
the pursuit of the ghost; when the two halves of
the bamboo have closed with a snap the gate has
been shut in her face.
Another writer who travelled in Burma in the
second half of the nineteenth century has described
somewhat differently the customs and beliefs on
this subject observed and held by the Kachins, or
Kakhyens, as he calls them. His account runs as
follows. “ Funeral rites are also denied to those
who die of small-pox and to women dying in child­
birth. In the latter case the mother and her child
are believed to become a fearful compound vampire.
All the young people fly in terror from the house, and
divination is resorted to, to discover what animal
the evil spirit will devour, and another with which it
will transmigrate. The first is sacrificed, and some
of the flesh placed before the corpse ; the second is
hanged, and a grave dug in the direction to which
the animal’s head pointed when dead. Here the
corpse is buried, with all the clothes and ornaments
worn in life, and a wisp of straw is burned on its
face, before the leaves and earth are filled in. All
property of the deceased is burned on the grave,
and a hut erected over it. The death dance takes
place, to drive the spirit from the house, in all cases.
1 W. J. S. Carrapiett, The Kachin Tribes of Burma (Rangoon, 1929)1
p. 47.
Ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 187
The former custom appears to have been to burn
the body itself, with the house and all the clothes
and ornaments used by the deceased. This also
took place if the mother died during the month
succeeding childbirth, and, according to one native
statement, the infant also was thrown into the fire,
with the address, ‘ Take away your child ’; but if
previously any one claimed the child, saying, ‘ Give
me your child ’ it was spared, and belonged to the
adopting parent, the real father being unable at
any time to reclaim it.” 1
The Shans of Burma believe that the death of a
woman with her unborn child is the greatest mis­
fortune that can befall her own and her husband’s
family. It is thought that the spirit of the dead
woman becomes a malignant ghost, who may return
to haunt her husband’s home and torment him,
unless precautions are taken to keep her away. In
the first place, her unborn child is removed by an
operation ; then the bodies of mother and child are
wrapped in separate mats and buried without coffins.
If this be not done, the same mishap may befall
the woman in her future life, and the widower will
suffer from the attacks of her ghost. When the
corpses are being removed from the house, part of
the mat wall in the side of the house is taken down,
and the dead woman and her baby are lowered to
the ground through the opening. The hole through
which the bodies have passed is immediately filled
with new mats, so that the ghost may not know how
1J. A n d erson , Mandalay to Momien (L on d on , 1876), pp. 145 sq.
to return. In such a case no guests are invited, and
there is no burial ceremony, though a funeral feast
may be given on the anniversary of the death.1
The Palaungs of Burma regard the spirits of
women dying in childbed as the most terrifying of
all unhappy spirits. After such a death has taken
place in a house, the woman’s body is hurriedly
washed and dressed in new clothes, and the usual
food and other things are placed beside her in a
new mat, which is wrapped round her body. The
corpse is then lowered through a hole which has
been cut in the flooring-boards of the room where
she died. And as the desire of every one is to remove
her body from the house and the village as quickly
as possible for burial, a coffin is not made. The un­
born child may be removed by an operation, wrapped
in another mat, and buried by itself, but this is
seldom done. As soon as the body has been lowered,
the floor is washed and the hole is closed with new
boards. This, they hope, will prevent the return of
the spirits of the unfortunate mother and child. The
husband does not attend the funeral, but goes to
spend days, or even weeks, at the monastery. It is
now the practice to dig a grave of the usual shape
in a lonely part of the jungle, and when earth has
been heaped above the body, a banana-tree, the
emblem of fertility, is sometimes planted beside it.
In olden times a grave was made in the shape of a
well, and the woman’s body was buried in a standing
1 Mrs. Leslie Milne, The Shans The Fear of the Dead in Primitive
at Home (London, 1910), p. 96. Cf. Religiont ii. pp. 102 sq.
1 88 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
position, a large terra-cotta pot, inverted, being
placed on her head, so as to rest on her shoulders.
When a pregnant woman dies, no woman still cap­
able of child-bearing and no girl should go into the
house of the dead woman, until the body has been
removed. When the funeral has taken place the
mourners in the house may be visited by girls and
young unmarried women, who should accept no
food there until seven days have passed. They fear
that if they eat in the house before the spirit of the
dead woman has gone to eat of the fruit of forgetful­
ness, a similar fate may befall them should they
marry.1
In Cambodia it is believed that the spirits of
women who die in childbed become malignant spirits
who torment living folk in a variety of w
rays. They
are called khmoch-preai (the wicked dead). They
cause all kinds of sicknesses, they turn into beasts
of prey, they throw stones and sand at the mango-
trees in the garden in order to frighten the people
in the house. No one is safe from their ravages.
The first prince of the blood, the highest authority
but one in the land, has been heard to complain
bitterly of the depredations committed in his garden
by these wicked spirits.2
The ghosts of women dying in childbed are much
dreaded by the Malays of the peninsula and of
the Indian Archipelago; it is supposed that they
appear in the form of birds with long daws and are
1 Mrs. Leslie Milne, The Home 2 J. Moura, Le Royaume du
of an Eastern Clan (Oxford, 1924), Cambodge (Paris, 1883), ii. 178.
pp. 304 sq.
in GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 1S9
THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
190
exceedingly dangerous to their husbands and also
to pregnant women. Such a ghost is called a pon-
tianak. She is commonly seen in the form of a huge
bird uttering a discordant cry. She haunts forests
and burial-grounds, appears to men at midnight, and
is said to emasculate them. She afflicts children and
pregnant women, causing abortions.1 A common
way of guarding against such dangerous ghosts is
to put an egg under each armpit of the corpse, to
press the arms close against the body, and to stick
needles into the palms of the hands. The people
believe that the ghost of the dead woman will be
unable to fly and attack people; for she will not
spread out her arms for fear of letting the eggs fall,
and she will not clutch anyone for fear of driving
the needles deeper into her palms. Sometimes, by
way of additional precaution, another egg is placed
under her chin, thorns are thrust into her fingers and
toes, her mouth is stopped with ashes or beads, and
her hands, feet, and hair are nailed to the coffin.1
2
*
*
1 T. J. Newbold, British Settle­
ments in the Straits of Malacca
(London, 1839), ii. 191.
2 Van Schmidt, “ Aanteekeningen
nopens de zeden, etc., der bevolking
van de eilandcn Saparoea, etc.5*,
Tijdschrift voor Neirlands Indie, v.
Tweede D ee! (B atavia, 1843), pp.
528 sqq.; G. Heijmering, “ Zeden
en gewoonten op het eiland Timor ” ,
Tijdschrift twor Neirlands Indie,
vii. Negende Aflevering (Batavia,
1843), pp- 278 -sq. note; B. F.
Matthes, Bijdragen tot de Eth­
nologic van Zuid - Celebes (The
Hague, 1875), P* 97 l W. E. Max­
well, “ Folk-lore of the Malays ” ,
Journal of the Straits Branch of the
Royal Asiatic Society, No. 7 (June,
1881), p. 28 ; W. W. Skeat, Malay
Magic (London, 1900), p. 325 ; J. G.
F. Riedel, Be sluik- en kroesharige
Rassen iussehen Seiches en Papua
(The Hague, 1886), p. 81; B. C. A. J.
van Dinter, “Eenige geographische
en ethnographische aanteekeningen
betrefende het eiland Siaoe ” , Tijd­
schrift voor Indische Taal- Land- en
Volkenkunde, xli. {1899) p. 381 ;
A. C. Kruijt, “ Eenige ethno­
graphische Aanteekeningen omtrent
de Toboengkoe en de Tomori ” ,
Mededeelingen van wege het Neder-
landscke Zendelinggenootschap, xliv.
Besides these precautions, which are universal in
the Malay region, the Achinese of Sumatra give the
corpse of such a woman an entangled ball of cotton
and a needle without an eye ; when the ghost wants
to go off, she must first sew trousers from her shroud,
but spends the time in disentangling the cotton and
seeking the eye of the needle.1
The fear of these dangerous spirits of women
dying in childbed is deeply felt and widely held
by the natives of Nias, an island lying to the west
of Sumatra.2 In Lolowaoe, a village in the moun­
tains of Western Nias, the natives say that such a
spirit, named matianak, appears like the shadow of
a woman with her hair wound about her head. Only
the priests have the faculty of recognizing such
spirits. The matianak lives by choice on the banks
of rivers, and feeds on fish, crabs, and other water
creatures. She has a grudge not only at women, but
also will not leave men in peace. In the evening she
sallies forth and tries to catch some man, whom she
then drags to her abode beside the river. There she
ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED igi
(Rotterdam, 1900) p. 21S ; id., Het
Animisms in den Indischen Archipel
(The Hague, 1906), p. 252 ; G, A.
Wilken, Bandleiding voor de vcr-
glijkende Volkenkunde van Ncder-
landsch-Indie (Leyden, 1S93), p.
559 ; J. H, Meerwaldt, “ Gebruiken
der Bataks in het maatschapplijk
leven ” , Mededeelingm van wege
het Nederlandsche Zendelinggenoot-
schap, xiix. (1905) p. 113; N.
Adriani and A. C. Kruijt, De Bare'e-
sprekende Toradjas van Midden-
Celebes (The Hague, 1912), ii. pp.
113 sq. The common name for
these ghosts is pontianak. For a full
account of them, see A. C. Kruijt,
Het Animisms in den Indischen
Archipel, pp. 245 sqq.
1 A. C. Kruijt, ” Indonesians” ,
in Hastings’ Encyclopaedia of Be­
lgian and Ethics (Edinburgh, 1914),
vii. 241.
2 J. W. Thomas and L, X. X. A.
Chatelin, u Godsdienst en bijgeloof
der Niassers ” , in* Tijdschrift voor
Indische Taal- Land■ en Volke7i-
kunde ” , 1SS1, p. 133, and E.
Modigliani, Un Viaggio a Nias
(Milan, 1890), pp. 554, 630.
192 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
ducks her victim under the water till he loses con­
sciousness. When he comes to himself, she orders
him to climb a high coconut palm and fetch her a
coconut. In the oil which she extracts from the nut
she boils a human head and therewith prepares an
ointment, with which the man must smear his body.
Then he is fully in the power of the spirit (matianak)
and ready to comply with her sexual desires. On
the other hand, the matianak will also be helpful to
her victim. The ointment which he gets from her
enables him to steal without being perceived. When
he comes to a house which he wishes to rob, he has
only to measure at the doorway a space equal to
that between his little finger and thumb and to smear
on it the ointment which he received from the
matianak. That enables him to enter the house
without being observed by the inmates. Also if he
has a grudge against anybody, he may give his knife
to the matianak, and with it she will rip up the belly
of the hated person, so that he or she dies.
It is at evening that these evil spirits go about.
Hence, to guard oneselfagainst their attacks, it iswell,
when you are walking at evening, to brandish a knife
or a stick from time to time; this keeps them off. Or
the wayfarer throws leaves behind him ; the demon
stops to pick them up in order to make an ointment
out of them, and she loses so much time in picking
up the leaves that she cannot overtake the wayfarer.
According to the natives of Eastern Nias it is
especially against pregnant women that the mati­
anak has a grudge: she causes them to fall sick or
to miscarry. In order to keep the demon from his
pregnant wife, a husband will, in the eighth month
of her pregnancy, plant a leafy branch of a damo
tree at a cross-road close to the house. The leaves
flutter in the wind, thus showing their white glis­
tening under-sides. That frightens the matianak
so that she dare not approach the house. Besides
that, at the back of the house, close to the woman’s
chamber, a banana-tree is planted to bar the road
against the matianak. The people also place idols,
with grim faces, at the entrance of the house and
beside the woman’s bed, the intention of which
must be to frighten the matianak. If the woman
is safely delivered, a thank-offering is made to these
idols, but if she dies in childbed the idols which have
been made are thrown away. Otherwisetheyarekept.
The natives of Eastern Nias think that the matianaks
also attack men, wrenching the arms out of their
bodies and then inserting them in the reverse way,
so that the palms of the hands are turned outwards.1
Among the Toradyas of Central Celebes, as
additional precautions against the ghost of a woman
dying in childbed, an old woman will smear chalk
on the cheeks of the corpse, and sometimes the stem
of a banana-tree is placed in the coffin with her, to
make her think it is her child, and so to soothe and
pacify her perturbed spirit.*
1 J. P. Kleiweg de Zwaan, “ De pp. 25 sqq.
‘Pontianak’ of Nias” , in Tijdschrift
van het Koninklijk Nederlandsch 2 N. Adriaxii and A. C. Kruijt,
A ardrikskundig Genootschap, De Barde-sprekende Taradjas van
Tweede Deei, Serie xxix. (1912) Midden-Celebes, ii, 114.
VOL. I l l
m GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 193
O
We have already seen that a similar mode of
contenting the maternal longings of a dead mother
is adopted in some parts of Melanesia, including
Fiji, and also in the Pelew Islands.1
Once more, among the Kayans or Bahaus of
Central Borneo, “ the corpses of women dying in
childbed excite a special horror; no man and no
young woman may touch them; they are not
carried out of the house through the front gallery,
but are thrown out of the back wall of the dwelling,
some boards having been removed for the purpose.” 2
Indeed, so great is the alarm felt by the Kayans at
a miscarriage of this sort that when a woman labours
hard in childbed, the news quickly spreads through
the large communal house in which the people
dwell; and if the attendants begin to fear a fatal
issue, the whole household is thrown into conster­
nation. All the men, from the chief down to the
boys, will flee from the house, or, if it is night, they
will clamber up among the beams of the roof and
there remain in terror ; and, if the worst happens,
they remain there till the woman’s corpse has been
removed from the house for burial. In such a case
the burial is carried out with the greatest despatch.
Old men and women, who are indifferent to death,
will undertake the work, and they will extract a
large fee for their services. The body, wrapped in
a mat, is buried in a grave dug in the earth among
the tombs, instead of being laid in a coffin raised on
194 th e fea r OF THE DEAD CH.
1 See above, pages 59, 60, 61 2 A. W. Nieuwenhuis, Quer durch
Borneo (Leyden, 1901-1907), i. 91.
Ill GHOSTS OF WOMEN DYING IN CHILDBED 195
a tall post; for the spirit of the woman who dies
in childbirth goes, with the spirits of those who fall
in battle, or die by violence of any kind, to Bawang
Daha (the lake of blood).1
The Kiwai of British New Guinea think that the
spirits of women dying in childbed are very danger­
ous ghosts, threatening in particular their husbands,
to whom their misfortune is attributed. The spirit
of the dead baby is also feared. Not until long
afterwards, when the spirits are thought to have
gone away, will the husband venture out hunting.2
Among the Ewe-speaking peoples of Togo, in
West Africa, when a woman dies in childbed they
carry her body into the forest, and remain beside
it overnight. During the night they light a fire,
discharge shots, beat drums, and sing till morning
breaks. Then they wash the corpse, spread banana
leaves upon the ground, cover them with a mat, and
lay the body on the mat. Then they smear the
dead woman’s face with white earth. And who­
ever comes to see her takes white earth in his left
hand, and strews it on her body, saying three times.
“ I pity thee ”. This they do till the time comes for
the burial. If the child is still in her womb a man
is charged with the duty of cutting open her body
at the edge of the grave, so that the dead mother
may see her babe. If the child is barely in life they
kill it by dashing its head against a tree. But if
they see that the child may live they take it’home and
1 C. Hose and W. McDougall, * G. Landtman, The Kiwai
The Pagan Tribes of Borneo (Lon- Papuans of British New Guinea
don, 1912), i. 155. (London, 1927), p. 284.
rear it. If the child is a male they call it Kpeme.
They say that only male children, and not female,
kill their mothers at birth. The bodies of women
who have died in childbed are buried in a special
place (Atsiamanyd). Nine days after the burial the
funeral rites are performed, the woman’s house is
broken up and the materials are burned on the road
outside the town, in order that no evil influence may
attach to the timbers. The inhabitants of the town
receive a fine of forty hoca of cowrie shells from the
relations of the deceased. Then they take a small
dog and a toad, tie them to the end of a palm
branch, and drag them through the town. This
ceremony is called ‘kplo gbo me (sweeping the
town, purifying it from evil spirits). Behind them
a bell is rung all the time, till they have completed
the round of the town. If this rite were not per­
formed, no solemn purification (busu) would there­
after be possible.1 From this account we gather
that among these people the death of a woman in
childbed is supposed to affect the whole town
with a pollution which must be effaced before life
can resume its normal course. The ghost of such
a woman must therefore be deemed particularly
virulent.
The Ibibio of Southern Nigeria regard with fear
and horror the bodies of women who have died in
childbed. Such corpses are carried out and thrown
away or propped against the foot of a tree in the
Bad Bush. In the neighbourhood ofAwa the mouths
1 J. Spieth, Die Ewe-Stamme (Berlin, 1906), p. 278
196 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
of such women are stopped with pitch, while some
pitch, mixed with thorns, is also placed at times under
thearmpits, to prevent them from troubling the living.
Otherwise their ghosts, who are thought to hate the
whole human race because they have been denied
burial, are said to take upon themselves the form
of a beautiful woman to lure a man to his destruc­
tion. Such a man at his death will find himself
surrounded by the ghoul-wife and her demon off­
spring, and will be prevented from joining his
relatives and friends in the ghost town. When
the bearers who have carried out the corpse of such
a woman and disposed of it in the forest return to
the village, they may not enter their own houses,
but must wait outside that of the dead woman
until the members of her family have brought out
and sacrificed a dog, a cock, and some eggs. Magic
leaves are ground between stones and rubbed over
the bodies of the corpse-bearers, while the kinsmen
of the deceased pray that so sad a fate may never
again overtake one of their house. The fowl’s
head is struck off, and its blood is sprinkled over the
bearers, who chant meanwhile : “ Let not the evil
thing pass from me to any woman ”. Until the
sacrifices have been made and the prayers offered,
none who took part in carrying the corpse may
touch a woman lest the influence which had proved
fatal to the deceased should be communicated by
them to the living.1
m G H O S T S O F W O M E N D Y IN G IN C H IL D B E D 197
1 D. Araaury Talbot, Woman's pp. 214 sq, P. Amaury Talbot, The
Mysteries of a Primitive People, Peoples of Southern Nigeria, iii. 512.
Among the Ila-speaking peoples of Northern
Rhodesia, when a woman dies in pregnancy, it is
deemed necessary to cut out the child from her
womb, and to bury it separately from the mother,
for otherwise they believe that the mother’s ghost
will rise from the grave and kill people.1
The ancient Mexicans believed that the spirits
of women who died in childbed were turned into
dangerous and malevolent goddesses, who roamed
about in the air, but descended from time to time
on the earth for their errands of mischief. They
haunted, above all, the cross-roads. On such de­
scents they afflicted children with various maladies,
including paralysis, by penetrating into the bodies
of the sufferers. Hence parents forbade their
children to leave the house on days when they
thought the goddesses descended to earth, lest
their offspring should be harmed by these evil
deities. Paralysis was explained by them as due
to the possession of the sufferer’s body by one of
these malignant beings. To appease these dreaded
goddesses the ancient Mexicans held festivals in
their honour, at which they offered them loaves
baked in the shape of butterflies and thunder­
bolts, cakes called tamalli, and roasted maize. The
images of these goddesses represented them with
white faces and white hands, arms, and legs, as if
they were smeared with white earth. Their ears
were golden, and the tresses of their hair curled like
1 Rev. E. W. Smith and Capt. A. of Northern Nigeria (London, 1920),
M. Dale, The Ila*Speaking Peoples ii. 115.
198 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
those of great ladies. Their robes were striped
with black, and their petticoats parti-coloured.1
Oratories of these goddesses were erected in all the
wards of the city. In them their images stood, and
these were covered with paper on the days when
the deities were supposed to descend. Usually the
spirits of women dying in childbed were thought
to live in the palace of the sun in the western part
of the sky, and to accompany the sun daily from
midday till his setting in the west. But on certain
days of certain months they were believed to de­
scend to earth, and to afflict children with paralysis
and other maladies. It was on these days, which
were well known from the calendar, accordingly,
that parents were careful to keep their children at
home, that they might not encounter the dangerous
goddesses.2
V
.
V. Ghosts of dead Husbands or Wives
The ghosts of dead husbands and wives are
commonly deemed very dangerous to their sur­
viving spouses, whom they are thought to haunt
in a variety of ways. This they are thought to do
especially when the surviving partner has taken to
himself or herself a second wife or husband, for the
ghost is naturally jealous of the second wife or hus­
band, and seeks to wreak her spite against the new
1 B ern ardin o de Sahagun, His« 2 Sahagun, op: dt. pp. 433*437,
toire ginim le des chases de la So, Si, 255, 269. C f. H . H . Ban-
Nouvdk'Espagne, traduite et an- croft, The Native Races of the Pacific
notee par D. Jourdanet et Rerni Stales ofNorth America, in. 362-364.
Simeon (Paris, iSSo), pp. 20 sq.
Hi GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 199
200 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
bride or bridegroom. Hence special precautions
are commonly taken to guard the widower or widow
against the dangerous spirit of his or her departed
spouse.1
Thus, for example, among the Nufoors of Dutch
New Guinea, when a widow marries for a second
time, she walks into the forest with her new husband,
followed by a number of widows or married women,
who cut branches and twigs from the trees and throw
them at the newly wedded pair. This they do for
the purpose of driving away the jealous ghost of
the widow’s late husband, who is supposed to pur­
sue and endanger one or both of them. For the
same reason the widow must put off her mourning
garb and give it to another widow, because it is
believed that the ghost of her late husband adheres
to the garments, and that if she did not put them off
he might, out of jealousy, visit her or her new
husband with sickness. When the couple have
ended their walk the female friends who accom­
panied them and plied them vigorously with
branches and twigs receive a present of chopping-
knives and petticoats, and that ends the marriage
ceremony.2
At Issoudun in British New Guinea a French
1 With what follows, compare pp. 326 sqq.
Psyche's Task {The Devil's Advo- * J. B. van Hasselt, “ Die Noer-
cate), pp. 142*149 ; Folk-Lore in the forezen” , in. Zeitschrift fiir Eth-
OId Testament, i. 523*529. See also nologie,viii. (1876) p. i%2 sq.; id.,
E. S. Hartland, Ritual and Belief, “ Eenige aanteekeningen de be-
chapter “ The Haunted Widow ” , woners der N. Westkust van Nieuw
pp. 194 sqq.; and E. Westermarck, Guinea ” , in Tijdschrift voor In -
The History of Human Marriage discke Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde,
(Fifth Edition, London, 1921), i. xxi. (1886) p. 585.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 201
missionary has painted a melancholy picture of the
sad lot of a native widower haunted and hag-ridden
by the ghost of his dead wife. His miseries begin
with the moment of his wife's death. He is im­
mediately stripped of all his ornaments, abused and
beaten by his wife's relations, his house is pillaged,
his gardens devastated, there is no one to cook for
him. He sleeps on his wife’s grave till the end of
his mourning. He may never marry again. By
the death of his wife he loses all his rights. It is
civil death for him. Old or young, chiefor plebeian,
he is no longer anybody; he does not count. He may
not hunt or fish with the others ; his presence would
bring misfortune ; the spirit of his dead wife would
frighten the fish or the game. He is no longer
heard in the discussions. He has no voice in the
council of elders. He may not take part in a dance ;
he may not own a garden. If one of his children
marries, he has no right to interfere in anything or
to receive any present. If he were dead he could
not be ignored more completely. He has become
a nocturnal animal. He is forbidden to show him­
self in public, to traverse the village, to walk in the
roads and paths. Like a boar he must go in the
grass or the bushes. If he hears or sees anyone,
especially a woman, coming from afar, he must hide
himself behind a tree or a thicket. If he wishes to
go hunting or fishing by himself, he must go at
night. If he has to consult anyone, even the mis­
sionary, he does it in great secrecy, and at night. He
seems to have lost his voice, and only speaks in a
202 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
whisper. He is painted biack from head to foot.
The hair of his head is shaved, except two tufts
which flutter on his temples. He wears a skull-cap
which covers his head completely to the ears ; it
ends in a point at the back of his neck. Round his
waist he wears one, two, or three sashes of plaited
grass ; his arms and legs from the knees to the
ankles are covered with armlets and leglets of the
same sort; and round his neck he wears a similar
ornament. His diet is strictly regulated, but he
does not observe it more than he can help, eating
in secret whatever he is given or he can lay his
hands on. “ His tomahawk accompanies him every­
where and always. He needs it to defend himself
against the wild boars and also against the spirit of
his dead wife, who might take a fancy to come and
play him some mischievous prank ; for the souls of
the dead come back often, and their visit is far from
being desired, inasmuch as all the spirits without
exception are bad and have no pleasure but in
harming the living. Happily people can keep them
at bay by a stick, fire, an arrow, or a tomahawk.
The condition of a widower, far from exciting pity
or compassion, only serves to render him the object
of horror and fear. Almost all widowers, in fact,
have the reputation of being more or less sorcerers,
and their mode of life is not fitted to give the lie to
public opinion. They are forced to become idlers
and thieves, since they are forbidden to work : no
work, no gardens: no gardens, no food: steal
then they must, and that is a trade which cannot
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 203
be plied without some audacity and knavery at a
pinch.” 1
Among the Kiwai Papuans of British New
Guinea, when a widow marries again several cere­
monies are performed, which appear to be based
on a fear of her late husband’s ghost. One day
just before sundown the pair go to the forest, where
they have connexion close to a spider’s web spun
between them and the village. When the man gets
up, he walks home right through the web, breaking
it, and at a little distance his wife follows in his
tracks. On entering their house they carefully bar
the door after them. In the morning when they go
back to the bush the spider will have restored its
web, and then the past is “ shut away Another
practice is this. The man and widow go to the place
where she and her former husband had connexion
the last time. There she cooks a little food—a taro
root or some sago. They break off the top shoot
of a young bamboo, provide themselves each with a
little piece of the stem underneath, and replace the
shoot. The small pieces of bamboo are put into
two portions of the food. They then have con­
nexion, and during the act they put into each other’s
mouth the two bits of food containing the bamboo.
Their intention is to link up their marriage with the
first one, at the spot where this had been broken off,
and to prevent the new husband from dying as his
predecessor had done. The “ spirit-smell ” still
1 Father Guis (de la Congregation Canaques, mort-deuil ” , in Les
du Sacre Cceur d’Issoudun, mis* Missions Cathclicves, xxxiv. (Lyons,
sionaire en Nouvelle-Guinee), “ Les 1902) pp. 208 sq.
204 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
adheres to the woman, and they want to “ wash it
away As the bamboo grows on, the loose shoot
on top, which represents the dead husband, is thrown
off, and the stem underneath, symbolizing the new
husband, keeps on growing. Before returning home
they split the middle part of a certain creeper
(nu-rude), leaving the base and top intact, then the
man and woman crawl through the opening, which
closes behind them, and in this way they “ shut the
road against the ghost of the dead husband
These observances are not kept by the bushmen at
marrying a widow, hence many of them suffer from
shortness of breath, which is supposed to be caused
by the first husband’s ghost.
If the first husband has been taken by a crocodile,
the following rite is observed. The pair go to the
place where the accident happened; there the woman
takes off her grass petticoat and breaks her sogere
(a plaited grass necklace), the last sign of her mourn­
ing, throwing them away into the water. After the
two have had connexion, the woman stands up
astride with her back towards the water, and her
husband crawls between her legs from behind. She
then puts on a new petticoat and walks home behind
her husband. They keep the door of their house
carefully closed till next morning. An analogous
rite is performed in the case of the first husband
having been killed by a snake. The couple have
connexion close to the haunt of the snake. Then
they fill a coconut bowl with water from some swamp
near by, frequented by the creature, and both drink
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 205
it. A nipa leaflet is partly split in the same way as
the creeper in the observance described above, and
the two sides are kept apart by means of a transverse
stick. The man first crawls through the leaf, knock­
ing down the stick, and after him the woman in the
same way, the stick having been replaced. On their
return home the door is kept shut after them. There
is a third similar rite performed if the widow’s first
husband has been killed by a wild boar. At a place
where the boar has rooted in the ground the woman
lies down nude, and the man pours over her genitals
some water brought in a coconut-bowl from a hole
made by the pig. The woman gets up and drinks
the rest of the water in the bowl, the man not drink­
ing any. After a couple of days the pair go back
to the same place and have connexion there. On
their return to the village the people—men, women,
and children—previously summoned by the hus­
band, sit dowm on the ground, forming a circle, in
the middle of which husband and wife seat them­
selves. The circle of friends round the newly
married pair is said to fence or guard them, pre­
sumably against the ghost of the deceased husband.
The pair remain within the enclosure until sunset,
when they go into their house and secure the door.1
Among the Toradyas of Central Celebes, a
widow, after the death of her husband, may not leave
the house until a certain ceremony has been per­
formed over her. A rough fence of umbrellas and
cotton is rigged up round about her, and within this
1 G. Landtman, The Kiwai Papuans of British New Guinea, pp. 252 sg.
206 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
circle a priest performs over her certain rites, which
are believed to fasten her soul in her body, and so to
prevent it from following her husband’s ghost to
the spirit land.1 These Toradyas think, or used to
think, that every period of mourning for the dead
must be terminated by a human sacrifice, offered to
the spirit of the dead, either to divert the wrath of
the ghost from the living, or to carry his property to
him in the spirit land. In time of war the scalp of a
slain enemy might be used for the purpose. When
a village in which a death had taken place was not
at war, they tried to obtain a human victim by pur­
chasefroma neighbouring tribeand, iftheysucceeded,
they hacked him or her to death. Sometimes they
employed as victims persons accused of witchcraft.
If all other means failed, as a last resort they under­
took a warlike expedition against hereditary foes at
a distance. A widower must bring back a human
head for his dead wife, even if he had to remain
absent for three years or more before he could pro­
cure it. If he came back without it he was put
to public shame by his fellow-villagers.2 So keen
apparently was the dead woman’s ghost to obtain
the bloody trophy.
In India it is, as usual, at the marriage of a widow
or widower that the jealous ghost of the deceased
spouse is particularly dreaded and that, accordingly,
1 A. C. Kruijt, “ Het koppen- xxv. (Amsterdam, 1899) p. 188.
snelien der Toradjas van Midden-
Celebes, en zijne beteekenis ” , in 2 N. Adriani and A. C. Kruijt,
Verslagen en Mededeelingen der De Bore's Sprekende Toradjas van
Koninklijk Akademit van Weten- Midden-Celebes (The Hague, 1912),
seAappen, Vierde Reeks, Derde Deel. pp. 105-107.
special precautions are adopted to guard against
his or her unwelcome attentions. Thus among the
Barai, a caste of betel-leaf growers and sellers in
the Central Provinces, when a man marries a widow
he offers a coconut at the shrine of a certain deity
called Maroti. The nut is afterwards placed on a
plank and kicked away by the widow’s new husband,
in token of his thus dismissing summarily the ghost
of her dead spouse. Later on the coconut is buried
in order to lay the spirit of the deceased.1 Again
among the Bhamta, a caste of thieves and growers
of hemp in the Central Provinces, if a man marries
a second wife after the death of the first, the new
wife wears on her neck an image of the first wife,
and offers it the hom sacrifice by placing some melted
butter {ghi) on the fire before taking a meal. In
cases of doubt and difficulty she often consults the
image by speaking to it, while any chance stir of the
image due to the movement of her body is inter­
preted as a sign of the approval or disapproval of
the dead wife.2 Thus the second wife attempts to
appease the jealous spirit of her predecessor in the
affections of her husband. Among the Kunbi, the
great agricultural caste of the Marathi country, the
ceremony of widow-marriage is largely governed by
the idea of escaping or placating the wrath of the
first husband’s ghost. It always takes place in the
dark fortnight of the month, and always at night.
Sometimes no women are present, and if they do
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 207
1 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and Indiat ii. 195.
Castes of the Central Provinces of * R. V. Russell, op, cit, ii. 237,
208 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
attend they must be widows, for it would be a very
bad omen for a married woman or an unmarried girl
to witness the ceremony. This, it is thought, would
shortly lead to her becoming a widow herself. The
bridegroom goes to the widow's house with his male
friends, and two wooden seats are set side by side.
On one of the seats is placed a betel-nut, which re­
presents the deceased husband of the widow. The
new bridegroom advances with a small wooden
sword, touches the nut with its tip, and then kicks it
off the seat with his right toe. The barber picks up
the nut and burns i t : this is believed to lay the
deceased husband’s ghost and to prevent his inter­
ference with the new union. The bridegroom then
takes the seat from which the nut has been displaced
and the woman sits on the other side to his left. He
puts a necklace of beads round her neck and the
couple leave the house and go to the husband’s
village. It is considered unlucky to see them as they
go away, as the second husband is regarded in the
light of a robber. Sometimes they stop at a stream
on the way home, and, taking off the woman's
clothes and bangles, bury them on the bank. An
exorcist may also be called in, who will confine the
late husband’s spirit in a horn by putting in some
grains of wheat, and after sealing up the horn deposit
it with the clothes. When a widower or widow
marries for a second time, and is afterwards attacked
by illness, if is ascribed to the ill-will of their former
partner’s spirit. The metal image of the first hus­
band or wife is then made and worn as an amulet
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 209
on the arm or round the neck, to protect the wearer
against the ghost of the deceased spouse.1 Among
the Mahars, an impure caste of menials, labourers
and village watchmen in the Maratha country, when
a man marries a widow, and she is proceeding to
her new husband’s house, she is stripped of her old
clothes, necklace and bangles, and these are thrown
into a river or stream, and she is given new ones to
wear. This is done to lay her first husband’s ghost,
who may be supposed to hang about the clothes
which she formerly wore as his wife, and when they
are thrown away or buried the exorcist mutters spells
over them in order to lay the spirit of the deceased
spouse.2
Similarly among the Mana, a Dravidian caste
of cultivators and labourers in the Central Provinces,
when a widow is to be married again, and is pro­
ceeding for that purpose to her new husband’s house,
she stops by the bank of a stream, and here her
clothes are taken off and buried by an exorcist for
the sake of laying her first husband’s spirit and pre­
venting him from troubling the new household.3
Among the Mang-Gorari, a criminal subdivision
of the Mang caste in the Central Provinces and
Berar, if a widow survived two or three husbands
and then married again, she had to go through the
ceremony holding a fowl under her arm, and the
bird was afterwards killed to appease the ghost or
ghosts of her late husband or husbands'.4 Among
1 R. V. Russell, op.cit. iii. pp.27 sq. 3 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 175
8 R. V, Russell, op, cit. iv. 135. 4 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 193.
VOL. I ll P
210 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
the Panwar, a famous Rajput clan, when a widow
marries again the stool on which she sat at the cere­
mony is afterwards stolen by her new husband’s
friends. After the wedding, when she reaches the
boundary of his village the axle of her cart is re­
moved, and a new one made of ebony wood (,tendu)
is substituted for it. The discarded axle and the
shoes worn by the husband at the ceremony are
thrown away, and the stolen stool is buried in a field.
The wood ofthe tendu or ebony tree is chosen because
it has the valuable property of keeping offspirits and
ghosts. When a child is born a plank of this wood
is laid along the door of the room to keep the spirits
from troubling the mother and the new-born infant.
In the same way, no doubt, this wood keeps the
ghost of the first husband from entering with the
widow into her second husband’s village.1 Among
the primitive Bhils, Mavchis and Konkanis of
India, when a man’s wife has died and he marries
again, custom requires him to carry at the ceremony
a large stone engraved with the image of a woman.
After the marriage ceremony this stone is buried in
the cemetery, in such a way that the image of the
woman still shows above the surface. The object
of this rite is to fix the ghost of the deceased wife
and to prevent it from wandering.2
Among the Somavansi Kshatriyas in Bombay
“ there is a strong belief that when a woman marries
another husband, her first husband becomes a ghost
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 345.
2 J, Abbott, The Keys 0/ Power (London, 1932), p. 244.
and troubles her. This fear is so strongly rooted
in their minds that whenever a woman of this caste
sickens she attributes her sickness to the ghost of
her former husband, and consults an exorcist as to
how she can get rid of him. The exorcist gives her
some charmed rice, flowers and basil leaves, and
tells her to enclose them in a small copper box and
wear it round her neck. Sometimes the exorcist
gives her a charmed coconut which he tells her
to worship daily, and in some cases he advises the
woman to make a copper or silver image of the dead
and worship it every day.” 1 So in Northern India
when a man marries again after the death of his
first wife he wears “ what is known as the Saukan
Maura, or second wife’s crown. This is a little silver
amulet, generally with an image of Devi engraved
on it. This is hung round the husband’s neck, and
all presents made to the second wife are first dedi­
cated to it. The idea is that the second wife recog­
nizes the superiority of her predecessor, and thus
appeases her malignity. The illness or death of
the second wife or of her husband soon after
marriage is attributed to the jealousy of the ghost
of the first wife, which has not been suitably pro­
pitiated.” 2
In the Bombay Presidency mosthigh-castepeople,
on the death of their first wives, take an impression
of their feet on gold leaves or leaf-like tablets of gold
1 W. Crooke, The Popular Re- the Spirit Basis of Belief and
iigzon and Folk-Lore of Northern Custom, p. 171*
India (Westminster, 1896), i. 235 sg.,
quoting J. M. Campbell’s Notes on 2 W. Crooke, op. cit. i. 236.
H
i GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 211
212 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
and cause their second wives to wear them round the
neck. These impresses of feet are called mourning’
footprints. Among the lower castes the hands or
the feet of the second wife are tattooed in the belief
that this prevents the deceased wife from causing
injury to the second wife.1 A similar purpose, no
doubt, is served by the golden footprints of a first
wife which the second wife of a high-caste man wears
as an amulet on her neck.
The Bhandari are a caste of toddy-drawers, who
are scattered all over the Bombay Presidency. They
permit the marriage of widows with the sanction of
thepanch or head man of the caste. “ The ceremony
is performed at night in an unoccupied outhouse.
The details vary in the different localities according
to local usages. In the Ratnagiri district, where the
caste is most numerous, it is celebrated as follows.
The ceremony of ovdlani (waving a platter contain­
ing lighted wicks, a pice, a coconut, rice grains and
a cock) is first performed by a Bhagat (exorcist) in
order to free the widow from the dominion of the
spirit of her deceased husband, who is supposed to
haunt her. The materials of the ovdlani, except the
cock, which is taken by the Bhagat, are carefully
packed together and sent to the house of the widow’s
deceased husband in order to be lodged at the foot
of the tulsi (sweet basil) plant in front of the house,
as it is supposed that these ovdlani materials collected
together carry back with them the spirit of the de­
ceased husband. The Bhagat himself is possessed
1 R. E, Enthoven, Folk-Lore of Bombay (Oxford, 1924), p. 196.
III GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 213
of his favouring spirit while he is performing the
ceremony. Thus possessed, he promises good to the
pair, and conjures the spirit of the widow’s deceased
husband by means of the ovalani. Thus freed, the
widow is presented to her husband by another widow
who acts as her bridesmaid. She applies paste made
of flour of udid (black gram) to the left knee of the
latter, and puts some grains of rice on it. Next, her
new husband presents her with a new dress and
ornaments which she puts on in the presence of the
assembly. This completes the ceremony. A dinner
is then held, and a present of Rs. 5 is made to the
caste panch who sanctioned the marriage. On the
following morning before daybreak the widow’s new
husband, accompanied by his friends and followed
by her, leaves the house to return home. The
widow takes a cock under her arm. When the pro­
cession reaches the boundary of the village the cock
is immolated, and its head, together with a lock of
hair from the widow’s head and a bit of the new
robe worn by her are buried under a rock. The body
of the cock is taken away and eaten by the Bhagat,
who accompanies the pair till they reach home. This
ceremony is also performed by the Bhagat and is
intended to be an offering to the guardian spirit of
the village resident on the boundary, who is expected
to take charge of the spirit of the deceased husband.
Not unnaturally the deceased husband is believed
to be very jealous of the second husband, and all the
efforts of the Bhagat are directed towards annihilat­
ing his influence, in case he may be hovering near
214 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
in the spirit with evil intentions.” 1 Among the
Gabit, a caste of fishers on the Bombay coast, the
marriage of a widow is celebrated in an uninhabited
house on the village boundary, or in a temple of
Vetal or Bhutnath. At the ceremony “ in order to
prevent disturbance from the spirit of the widow’s
deceased husband, a cock, a coconut and rice
grains are first offered to him.” 2 Among the Mahar,
a tribe of the Bombay Presidency, at the remarriage
of a widow, when the ceremony is over and the newly-
wedded pair are starting for the bridegroom’s house,
but before they reach it, a cock is killed and a piece
of the widow’s robe is cut off and Rs. 2 with a ser of
rice grains and a coconut or five Nagchampa leaves
tied in a piece of cloth are sent to the house of the
widow’s deceased husband and placed in the basin
of the sweet basil plant in the courtyard. This offer­
ing is made to appease the spirit of the widow’s de­
ceased husband.® Among the Nhavi, the barber caste
of the Bombay Presidency, when a widow has been
remarried, on the night of the marriage day, and
before daybreak, the newly-wedded pair start for the
bridegroom’s home, the wife holding a cock under
her arm. At the same time a man of the caste leaves
for the widow’s deceased husband’s house taking
with him a coconut, some fruit, rice grains and
one rupee. On arriving there, he places these things
either in the house or in the courtyard, unseen by any­
body. When the procession of the remarried couple
1 R. E. Enthoven, The Tribes and 2 R. E. Enthoven, op, at, i. 349.
Castes of Bombay (Bombay, 1920),
i. 101-102. 3 R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. ii. 415.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 21-5
reaches the boundary of the widow’s village, the cock
under the widow’s arm is sacrificed and a coconut
is broken. The body of the cock and the coconut
are given to a virakti (worshipper of a village deity).
Next, another cock is placed under the widow's arm,
and the procession proceeds on its way. When they
reach the boundary of the bridegroom’s village,
another coconut is broken and the cock under the
widow’s arm is killed by a virakti, and the head of
the cock together with a hair from the widow’s head
and a bit of her robe are buried under a rock. The
body of the cock is taken away and eaten by the
virakti, who is also paid some money for his services
by the bridegroom. " All these efforts are directed
to preventing the spirit of the widow’s deceased
husband from troubling the second husband. When
the party reach home, a jar filled with water is placed
on the threshold of the door. The widow takes it
on her head and enters the house, thus ending the
ceremony.” 1 By this last act the widow may per­
haps be supposed to place a barrier of water between
herself and the ghost of her late husband.
Among the Ramoshi, a very numerous caste of
the Bombay Presidency, the remarriage of a widow
is celebrated on a dark night. Only men attend
the ceremony. As it is considered unlucky for
married unwidowed women to hear the service, the
ceremony is celebrated in a deserted place. The
widow and her new husband separate after the cere­
mony, and do not see each other or any of the caste
1 R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. iii. pp. 132 sg.
2l6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
for a day. “ If a woman has lost three husbands and
wishes to marry a fourth, she holds a cock under her
left arm when the ceremony is being performed.
The priest reads the service first in the name of the
cock, and then of the man, the object evidently
being that, in case the spirits of her former husbands
or rather the spirit of her first husband who killed
the next two for meddling with his property, be in­
clined to do any harm, it may fall on the cock and
not on the man.” 1 Among the Teli, a caste of oil­
men in the Bombay Presidency, the marriage of
widows is permitted. In the Ratnagiri district, be­
fore the marriage of a widow takes place a bundle
of cloth containing a rupee, a coconut, and a betel-
nut is sent to the widow’s late husband’s house, and
a coconut and a cock are waved off her face to free
her from molestation by her deceased husband’s
spirit.8 Among the Parit, a caste of washermen in
the Bombay Presidency, when a widow has been
married again she or her new husband sacrifices a
cock every year to appease the wrath of her deceased
husband’s ghost.®
Among the Savaras, an important hill-tribe of
Southern India, whoever marries a widow must
perform a religious ceremony, during which a pig is
sacrificed. The flesh, with some liquor, is offered
to the ghost of the widow’s deceased husband, and
prayers are offered by the priest to propitiate the
ghost, so that it may not torment the woman and her
1 R. E. Enthoven, op. d t. iii. 301. 3 R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. iii. 176.
2 R. E. Enthoven, op. cit. iii. 374.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 217
second husband. “ Oh man ! ” says the priest,
addressing the deceased by name, “ here is an
animal sacrificed to you, and with this all connexion
between this woman and you ceases. She has taken
no property belonging to you or your children. So
do not torment her within the house or outside the
house, in the jungle or on the hill, when she is asleep
or when she wakes. Do not send sickness on her
children. Her second husband has done no harm
to you. She chose him for her husband, and he
consented. Oh man ! be appeased ; oh ! unseen
ones ; oh ! ancestors, be you witnesses.” The
animal sacrificed on this occasion is called long danda
(inside fine), or fine paid to the spirit of a dead person
inside the earth.1
Among the Kamchadals or Koryaks of Kamt-
chatka in north-eastern Asia no man would marry
a widow before a ceremony called “ removing the
sin from her ” had been performed. The ceremony
consisted in her having sexual intercourse with a
stranger, who had to be paid for his services, for
his office was considered disgraceful, and until the
advent of the Russians it was difficult to find any
man who would undertake the duty; but after the
coming of the Cossacks there vtras no lack of men
willing to take upon themselves the sin of a hand­
some young widow.2 Our authorities for this custom
1 E. Thurston, Castes and Tribes go, 1766), p. 259; G. W. Steller,
of Southern India (Madras, 1909), Besehreibung von dem Lands Kami*
vi. 321. schatka (Frankfurt and Leipzig,
* S. Krascheninnikow, Beschreu 1774), p, 346.
bung des Landes Kamtschatka (Lem-
do not explain what the sin of the widow consisted
in, but we may conjecture with a fair degree of
probability that it was the offence which she gave
to the ghost of her late husband by her first act of
sexual intercourse after his death. This view is
acceptedTy competent modern authorities who have
touched upon the custom.1
In Africa the fear of the ghost of a dead husband
or a dead wife is strongly pronounced among the
Ewe-peoples of Togo. At Agome, in Togoland,
a widow is bound to remain for six weeks in the hut
where her husband lies buried. She is naked, her
hair is shaved off, and she is armed with a stick
with which to repel the too pressing familiarities of
her husband’s ghost; for were she to submit to
them she would die on the spot. At night she
sleeps with the stick under her, lest the wily ghost
should attempt to steal it from her in the hours of
slumber. Before she eats or drinks she always puts
some coals on the food or in the beverage, to prevent
her dead husband from eating or drinking with her ;
for if he did so she would die. If any one calls to
her she may not answer, for her dead husband would
hear her, and she would die. She may not eat
beans or flesh or fish, nor drink palm-wine or rum,
but she is allowed to smoke tobacco. At night a
fire is kept up in the hut, and the widow throws
powdered peppermint leaves and red pepper on the
1 W. Jochelson, The Koryak, ii. New York, 1908); E. Westermarck,
752 (Jesup North Pacific Expedition, The History of Human Marriage
Memoir of the American Museum Fifth Edition, London, 1921), i. 327.)
of Natural History) (Leyden and
218 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 219
flames to make a stink, which helps to keep the
ghost from the house. Among these people widowers
observe a similar seclusion after the death of their
wives, but only for eight days, and we are not told
that they resort to the same means of repelling the
ghosts of their deceased spouses.1
Among the Ibibio of Southern Nigeria, when a
widow begins to contemplate a second marriage she
is terrified lest the ghost of her late husband should
return and seek to draw her after him to the spirit
land. Should she suspect that the ghost is actually
preparing to do so, she consults a member of the
secret society called Idiong, who has a great reputa­
tion for second sight. By his advice food is cooked
and placed in a corner of the room. The priest takes
up a position immediately before this, and stands
calling upon the name of the ghost. Close to the
place where the food is laid some member of the
family crouches, holding a strong pot, preferably of
iron, tilted forward ready to invert over the one in
which the food is served. When the ghost is sup­
posed to be partaking of the food in the first pot the
wizard makes a signand the second pot isinvertedand
clapped over the first pot, and the two are bound fast
together, thus entrapping the spirit of the woman’s
late husband, and so presumably preventing him
from offering any obstacle to her second marriage.
1 Lieutenant Herald, “ Bericht den deutscken Schutzgehiet^ v. Heft 4
betreffend religiose Anschauungen (Berlin, 1S92), p. 155; H. Klose,
und Gebrauche der deutschen Ewe- Togo untcr deutscher Flaggt. (Berlin,
Neger ” , Mitteilungen von For- 1899), p. 274.
schungsreisended und Golehrten aus
If, on the contrary, a widow loved her late hus­
band very much, she will cook food for him after
his death and place it secretly in a corner of her
room so that his spirit may be induced to return
and enjoy it.1 Among the Baganda of Central
Africa, when a man wished to marry a widow he
first paid the deceased husband a barkcloth and a
fowl, which he put into the little shrine at the dead
man’s grave: in this way he imagined that he could
pacify the ghost.*
Among the Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro in
East Africa, when a man marries a widow he pur­
chases the right to do so from her late husband by
sacrificing a goat to his ghost, for the dead man is
supposed to retain all the rights that he had in life.
The sacrifice is offered at evening in the cattle kraal.
When the goat has been killed the contents of the
stomach are extracted, carried into the hut, and
laid upon one of the stones of the hearth. The
bridegroom and the widow crouch beside the hearth,
and together draw the hearthstone out of the earth.
Thereupon the bridegroom repeats his adjuration
to the ghost of the widow’s late husband to the fol­
lowing effect: “ To-day I take over thy kraal and
thy children, in order that I may look after them and
bring them up, and that they may bring offerings to
thee. If I know any black or white root that could
have killed you, may I perish by this stone. It was
thy fate, I had no share in thy death, let me live and
1 D. Amaury Talbot, A Woman's * J. Roscoe, The Baganda (Lon-
Mysteries of a Primitive People, don, 1911), p. 97.
pp. 174 sq.
220 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
HI GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 221
thrive in this place. And ifIbeget a child bythy wife,
let it grow up with its brothers and sisters that they
may be a credit to the members of their age-grade.”
They think that if this satisfaction were not
offered to the spirit of the dead husband his ghost
might take offence and kill the widow. In his
address to the ghost at offering the sacrifice the new
husband is careful to insist that he by no means
wishes to intrude upon the rights of his predecessor.
He begs to be allowed to purchase and pay for his
predecessor’s rights. He promises to care for his
predecessor’s cattle and to rescue them should they
fall into the hands of the enemy. In return for
the sacrifice of the goat, the ghost is requested to
transfer all his rights to the new husband, in order
that he may go out and in the kraal in safety, and
to help him to rear the dead man’s orphan children.1
Among the Dinkas of the Upper Nile, before a
widow may marry again a sacrifice must be offered
to appease the spirit of her late husband. A
brother of the deceased (and it may be the very
brother who is about to marry her) kills a bull
from the dead man’s herd and the blood is collected
in a gourd. The blood and the meat are boiled and
eaten by the widow and her children, the woman’s
clan taking one hind leg and the clan of the de­
ceased the rest. After this satisfaction has been
given to the ghost of her dead husband, the widow
is free to marry again.2
1 B. Gutmann, Das Dechi der Tribes ofthe Nilotic Sudan (London,
Dschagga (Munchen, 1926), pp, 52sq, 1932), p. 164.
8 C. G. and B. Z. Seligman, Pagan
222 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Speaking of the natives of Congo in West Africa
a French writer of the eighteenth century tells us
that according to their belief the ghost of a dead
husband lights upon the head of his widow. Hence
when a husband has breathed Ais last, his widow
rushes to*some river or tank with a minister of
their sect, whose special function it is to perform
the rite. There the widow is tied with cords and
flung several times into the river, in the belief that
this will drown the soul of her late husband and pre­
vent it from returning to torment her. As soon as
she returns from the river she is free to marry again.
But if a widow does not thus drown her husband’s
ghost, she must stay at home clad in old, torn,
dirty, dark-coloured robes, doubtless in order to
elude the attention of her late husband’s ghost.1
In Loango, a province of West Africa to the south
of the Congo, widows fear to be visited at night
by the ghosts of their dead husbands. They think
that as a consequence of such a visit they would
either die or give birth to monsters. To guard
against such a visit a wizard will provide a widow
with a magic bolt with which to close the door of the
hut against the ghost, or with a magic cord to fasten
round her bed at night. Or he may shift the door
of the house to another side of the dwelling, in order
to baffle the ghost. If all these precautions fail to
allay the widow’s anxiety her friends will remove her
secretly by night to another house, taking her by a
1 J. B. Labat, Relation historique de V£thiopie occidentale (Paris, 1732),
i. 404.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 223
roundabout way which the ghost cannot follow,
and effacing her footsteps, in order that the ghost
may not track her to her new abode. With a view
to leaving no tell-tale footprints behind they will
sometimes carry the widow, or put sandals on her
feet if she walks, for in this last case the g'host will
not be able to recognize the widow’s own footprints.
In addition to all these precautions a widow is
always provided with a magic cudgel which she
lays between her legs when she sleeps at night, to
be employed in self-defence against the ghost
should he succeed in approaching her.1
Among the Wabemba or Awemba, a Bantu
tribe of the Congo Free State and North-Eastern
Rhodesia, before a widower may marry again he
must appease the spirit of his dead wife by scraping
with his fingers a little hole at the head of her grave
and pouring into it a libation of beer, doubtless to
slake the thirst of the ghost.2 Among the Mashona
of Southern Rhodesia, when a man’s wife has died
he may not marry again until after the obsequies
for his dead wife have been fully performed. His
father-in-law could accuse him of witchcraft if he
took another wife while the ghost of his dead wife
still hovered about unappeased. It was thought
that such wickedness might cause the ghost to strike
her own people : she could not strike him or his.3
1 P. Gussfeld, J, Falkenstein, E. 2 C. Delhaise, Notes ethno-
Pechuel-Loesche, Die Loango-Ex- grapkiques sur qyelques peuplades
pedition ausgesandt von derdeutschen du Tanganyika (Brussels, 1905), p.
Gesellsckaft zur Erforschungen 10.
Aquatorial - Africas, 1873-1876 8 C. Bullock, The Mashona
(Stuttgart, 1907), Hi. 2, 308 sq. (Johannesburg, 1928), p. 261.
The Amazulu of Southern Africa believe that a
widow is sometimes visited and troubled by the
ghost (Itongo) of her dead husband. If such a
ghostly visit takes place during her pregnancy, and
she afterwards miscarries, the ghost of her dead
husband'is laid because he has done her an ill turn.
Should the ghost trouble her when she has gone to
another man without being as yet married, leaving
her late husband’s children behind, the ghost of her
dead husband will follow her and ask, “ With
whom have you left my children ? What are you
going to do here? Go back to my children. If
you do not assent I will kill you.” In such a case
the vengeful ghost of the dead husband is at once
laid in that village because he harasses his widow.1
The following is a native account of the method of
laying a dead husband’s troublesome ghost (Itongo)
which is practised by the Amazulu. “ If a woman
has lost her husband, and she is troubled excessively
by a dream, and when she is asleep her husband
comes home again, and she sees him daily just as if
he was alive, and so she at last wastes away, and
says, ‘ I am troubled by the father of So-and-So ;
he does not leave me; it is as though he was not
dead ; at night I am always with him, and he
vanishes when I awake. At length my bodily
health is deranged; he speaks about his children,
his property, and many little matters.’ Therefore
at last they "find a man who knows how to bar out
224 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
1 Rev. C, Calloway, The Religious Capetown and London, 1868),
System of the Amazulu (Natal, p. 161.
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 225
that dream for her. He gives her medicine and
says, ‘ There is medicine. When you dream of
him and awake, chew i t ; do not waste the spittle
which collects in your mouth while dreaming; do
not spit it on the ground, but on this medicine, that
we may be able to bar out the dream.’ Then the
doctor comes and asks if she has dreamt of her
husband ; she says she has. He asks if she has
done what he told her; the woman says she has.
He asks whether she has spit on the medicine the
spittle that collected in her mouth while dreaming;
she says she has. He says, ‘ Bring it to me then;
and let us go together to the place where I will shut
him in’. The doctor treats the dream with medi­
cines which cause darkness ; he does not treat it
with white medicines ; for among us black men we
say there are black and white ubulawo; therefore
the doctor churns for the woman black ubulawo,
because the dream troubles her. So he goes with
her to a certain place to lay the Itongo; perhaps he
shuts it up in a bulb of inkomfe?- The bulb has a
little hole made in its side, and the medicine mixed
with the dream-spittle is placed in the hole, and it is
closed with a stopper; the bulb is dug up, and
placed in another hole, and the earth rammed
round it, that it may grow. He then leaves the
place with the woman, saying to her, ' Take care
that on no account you look back ; but look before
you constantly till you get home. I say the dream1
1 “ Inkom fe, a bulbous plant, the leaves of which contain a strong fibre,
and are used for weaving ropes.”
VOL. Ill Q
226 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
will never return to you, that you may be satisfied
I am a doctor. You will be satisfied of that this
day. If it returns, you may tell me at once.’
And truly the dream, if treated by a doctor who
knows how to bar the way against dreams, ceases.
And even if the woman dreams of her husband, the
dream does not come with daily importunity; she
may dream of him occasionally only, but not con­
stantly as at first. The people ask her for a few
days after how she is. She replies, ‘ No, I have
seen nothing since. Perhaps it will come again.’
They say, ‘ Formerly was there ever a time when
he did not come ? ' The woman says, ‘There was
not. There used to be not even one day when he
did not come. I am still waiting to know whether
he is really barred from returning.’ The doctor
prevails over the dead man as regards that dream ;
at length the woman, says ‘ O ! So-and-So is a
doctor. See, I no longer know anything of So-and-
So’s father. He has departed from me for ever.’
Such then is the mode in which dreams are stopped.”1
In America also the ghosts of dead husbands and
wives have been much dreaded by the Indian
tribes. Thus among the Delaware Indians a
widow should not marry within a year of her
husband’s death, for the Indians say that he does
not forsake her before that time, and then his soul
goes to the land of spirits. During this year she
must live By her own industry. She is not allowed
to buy any meat, for the Indians think their guns
1Rev. Canon Calloway, op. cit. pp* 318 sqq+
III GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 227
would fail and shoot no deer if a widow should
eat of the game they have killed. After the first
year is over, the friends of her deceased husband
clothe and provide for her and her children.1
Among the Ojebway Indians, when a man has
died, “ it is often the custom for the widow, after the
burial is over, to spring or leap over the grave, and
then run zig-zag behind the trees, as if she were
fleeing from someone. This is called running away
from the spirit of her husband, that it may not
haunt her. In the evening of the day on which the
burial has taken place, when it begins to grow dark,
the men fire off their guns through the hole left at
the top of the wigwam. As soon as this firing
ceases, the old women commence knocking and
making such a rattling at the door as would frighten
away any spirit that would dare to hover near.
The next ceremony is, to cut into narrow strips,
like ribbon, thin birch bark. These they fold into
shapes, and hang round inside the wigwam, so that
the least puff of wind will move them. With such
scarecrows as these, what spirit would venture to
disturb their slumbers?”2 Among the Meno-
monie Indians, if a widow contemplates a second
marriage, she is careful not to look back at the grave
of her first husband, but returns to her lodge by
some devious and circuitous road. This she does,
the Indians say, to prevent the ghost of her dead
1 G. H. Loskiel, History of the a Rev. Peter Jones, History of the
Mission of the United Brethren Ojebway Indians (London, N.D.),
amongthe Indians ofNorth A meriea pp. 99 sq.
(London, 1794), pp. 64 sq.
228 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
husband following her. Sometimes the widow is
accompanied by a person, who, walking behind
her, flourishes a bundle of twigs over the widow’s
head, as if driving away flies. This is done, no
doubt, to drive away the dead husband’s ghost.1
Among many tribes of British Columbia the
conduct of a widow and widower for a long time after
the death of their spouse is regulated by a code of
minute and burdensome restrictions, all of which
appear to be based on the notion that these persons,
being haunted by the ghost, are not only themselves
in peril, but are also a source of danger to others.
Thus among the Shushwap Indians of British
Columbia widows and widowers fence their beds
with thorn bushes to keep off the ghost of the de­
ceased ; indeed they lie on such bushes, in order
that the ghost may be under little temptation to
share their bed of thorns. They must build a
sweat-house on a creek, sweat there all night, and
bathe regularly in the creek, after which they
must rub their bodies with spruce branches. These
branches may be used only once for this purpose;
afterwards they are stuck in the ground all round
about the hut, probably to fence off the ghost. The
mourners must also use cups and cooking-vessels
of their own, and they may not touch their own
heads or bodies. Hunters may not go near them,
and any person on whom their shadow were to fall
would at once be ill.* Again among the Tsetsaut
1 Narrative of the Captivity and Indians (London, 1830), p. 292.
Adventures ofJohn Tanner,, during 2 Franz Boas, in Sixth Report on
Thirty Years’ Residence among the the North-Western Tribes of Canada,
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 229
Indians, when a man dies his brother is bound to
marry the widow, but he may not do so before the
lapse of a certain time, because it is believed that the
dead man's ghost haunts his widow and would do
a mischief to his living rival. During the time of
her mourning the widow eats out of a stone dish,
carries a pebble in her mouth, and a crab-apple
stick up the back of her jacket. She sits upright
day and night. Any person who crosses the hut
in front of her is a dead man. The restrictions laid
on a widower are similar.1 Among the Lkungen
or Songish Indians, in Vancouver Island, widow
or widower, after the death of husband or wife,
are forbidden to cut their hair, as otherwise it is
believed that they would gain too great power over
the souls and welfare of others. They must remain
alone at their fire for a long time, and are forbidden
to mingle with other people. When they eat, no­
body may see them. They must keep their faces
covered for ten days. For two days after the burial
they fast and are not allowed to speak. After that
they may speak a little, but before addressing any­
one they must go into the woods and clean them­
selves in ponds and with cedar branches. If they
wish to harm an enemy they call out his name when
they first break their fast, and they bite very hard
in eating. That is believed to kill their enemy,
probably (though this is not said) by directing the
p. 92 (Report of the British Associa- the North-Western Tribes of Canada,
tionfor the Advancement of Science, p. 45 {Report of the British Associa-
Leeds, 1890, separate reprint). tionfor the Advancement of Science,
1 Franz Boas, in Tenth Report on Ipswich, 1895, separate reprint).
230 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
attention of the ghost to him. They may not go
near the water or eat fresh salmon lest the fish might
be driven away. They may not eat warm food,
else their teeth would fall out.1 Among the Bella
Coola Indians the bed of a mourner is protected
against the ghost of the deceased by thorn-bushes
stuck into the ground at each corner. He rises
early in the morning and goes out into the woods,
where he makes a square with thorn-bushes, and
inside of this square, where he is probably supposed
to be safe from the intrusion of the ghost, he cleanses
himself by rubbing his body with cedar-branches.
He also swims in ponds, and after swimming he
cleaves four small trees and creeps through the
clefts, following the course of the sun. This he
does on four subsequent mornings, cleaving new
trees every day. We may surmise that the intention
in creeping through the cleft trees is to give the slip
to the ghost. The mourner also cuts his hair short,
and the cut hair is burnt. If he did not observe
these regulations, it is believed that he would dream
of the deceased, which to the savage mind is another
way of saying that he would be visited in sleep by
his ghost. Amongst these Indians the rules of
mourning for a widower or a widow are especially
strict. For four days he or she must fast, and may
not speak a word, else the dead wife or husband
would come and lay a cold hand on the mouth of
the offender, who would die. They may not go
1 Franz Boas, in Sixth Report on Association for the Advancement of
the North-Western Tribes of Canada^ Science, Leeds, 1890, separate re­
pp. 23 sq. {Report of the British print).
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 231
near water, and are forbidden to catch or eat salmon
for a whole year. During that time also they may
not eat fresh herring or candle-fish (olacken). Their
shadows are deemed unlucky, and may not fall on
any person.1
Among the Thompson Indians of British Col­
umbia, widows or widowers, on the death of the
husbands or wives, went out at once and passed
through a patch of rose-bushes four times. The
intention of this ceremony is not reported, but we
may conjecture that it was supposed to deter the
ghost from following for fear of scratching himself
or herself on the thorns. For four days after the
death widows and widowers had to wander about at
evening or break of day wiping their eyes with fir-
twigs, which they hung up in the branches of trees,
praying to the Dawn. They also rubbed their eyes
with a small stone taken from under running water,
then threw it away, while they prayed that they
might not become blind. The first four days they
might not touch their food, but ate with sharp-
pointed sticks, and spat out the first four mouthfuls
of each meal, and the first four of water, into the fire.
For a year they had to sleep on a bed made of fir-
branches on which rose-bush sticks were also spread
at the foot, head and middle. Many also wore a
few small twigs of rose-bush on their persons. The
use of the rose-bush was no doubt to keep off
the ghost, through fear of the prickles'. They were
1 Franz Boas, in Seventh Report Association for the Advancement of
on the North-Western Tribes of Science, Cardiff, 1891, separate re-
Canada, p. 13 {Report of the British print).
forbidden to eat fresh fish and flesh of any kind for a
year. A widower might not fish at another man’s
fishing-place or with another man’s net. If he did,
it would make the station and the net useless for the
season. If a widower transplanted a trout into
another lake, before releasing it he blew on the head
of the fish, and after chewing deer-fat he spat some
of the grease out on its head, so as to remove the
baneful effect of his touch. Then he let it go, bidding
the fish farewell, and asking it to propagate its kind.
Any grass or branches upon which a widow or
widower sat or lay down withered up. If a ■widow
were to break any sticks or branches, her own hands
or arms would break. She might not cook food nor
fetch water for her children, nor let them lie down
on her bed, nor should she lie or sit where they slept.
Some widows wore a breech-cloth made of dry
bunch-grass for several days, lest the ghost of her
dead husband should have connexion with her. A
widower might not hunt or fish, because it was un­
lucky both for him and for other hunters. He did
not allow his shadow to pass in front of another
widower or of any person who was supposed to be
gifted with more knowledge or magic than ordinary.1
Among the Lillooet Indians of British Columbia
the rules enjoined on widows and widowers were
somewhat similar. But a widower had to observe a
singular custom in eating. He ate his food with the
right hand passed underneath his right leg, the knee
1 James Teit, “ The Thompson Expedition.) Memoir of the American
Indians of British Columbia” , pp. Museum of Natural History, 1900).
332 eg. (The Jesup North Pacific
232 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill GHOSTS OF DEAD SPOUSES 233
of which was raised.1 The motive for conveying
food to his mouth in this roundabout fashion is not
mentioned : we may conjecture that it was to baffle
the hungry ghost, who might be supposed to watch
every mouthful swallowed by the mourner, but who
could hardly suspect that food passed under*the knee
was intended to reach the mouth.
Among the Kwakiutl Indians of British Columbia,
we are told, “ the regulations referring to the mourn­
ing period are very severe. In case of the death of
husband or wife, the survivor has to observe the
following rule: for four days after the death the
survivor must sit motionless, the knees drawn up
toward the chin. On the third day all the inhabit­
ants of the village, including children, must take a
bath. On the fourth day some water is heated in a
wooden kettle, and the widow or widower drips it
upon his head. When he becomes tired of sitting
motionless, and must move, he thinks of his enemy,
stretches his legs slowly four times, and draws them
up again. Then his enemy must die. During the
following sixteen days he must remain on the same
spot, but he may stretch out his legs. He is not
allowed, however, to move his hands. Nobody must
speak to him, and whosoever disobeys this command
will be punished by the death of one of his relatives.
Every fourth day he takes a bath. He is fed twice
a day by an old woman at the time of low water,
with salmon caught in the preceding year, and given
1 James Teit, u The' Lillooet Pacific Expedition, Memoir of the
Indians ” (Leyden and New York, American Museum of Natural His*
1906), p. 271 {The Jesup North tory).
234 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
to him in the dishes and spoons of the deceased.
While sitting so, his mind is wandering to and fro.
He sees his house and his friends as though far, far
away. If in his visions he sees a man near by, the
latter is sure to die at no distant day ; if he sees him
very fa/away, he will continue to live long. After
the sixteen days have passed he may lie down, but
not stretch out. He takes a bath every eighth day.
At the end of the first month he takes offhis clothing,
and dresses the stump of a tree with it. After another
month has passed he may sit in a corner of the house,
but for four months he must not mingle with others.
He must not use the house door, but a separate door
is cut for his use. Before he leaves the house for the
first time he must three times approach the door and
return, then he may leave the house. After ten
months his hair is cut short, and after a year the
mourning is at an end.” 1
Though the reasons for the elaborate restrictions
thus imposed on widows and widowers by the Indians
of British Columbia are not always stated, we may
safely infer that, one and all, they are dictated by
fear of the ghost of the deceased, who, haunting
the surviving spouse, surrounds him or her with a
dangerous atmosphere, a contagion of death, which
necessitates his seclusion both from the people them­
selves and from the principal sources of their food
supply, especially the fisheries, lest the infected
person should poison them by his malignant presence.
1 Franz Boas, in Fifth Report on Association for the Advancement of
the North-Western Tribes of Canada^ Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne, 1889,
pp. 43 sq. (Report of the British separate reprint).
Ill GHOSTS OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 235
In Australia also the ghost of a dead husband is
sometimes said to haunt his widow for a certain
time after his death. Thus in the Unmatjera and
Kaitish tribes of Central Australia a widow’s hair
is burnt off and she covers her body with ashes from
the camp fire, and keeps renewing them through the
whole time of her mourning. If she does not do this
the ghost (atnirinja) of her late husband, who con­
stantly follows her about, will kill her and strip all
the flesh off her bones. In addition, her late hus­
band’s younger brother would be justified by tribal
custom in severely thrashing, or even killing her, if
during her period of mourning he were to meet
her without tokens of respect for her late husband’s
spirit.1
VI. Ghosts of the Unmarried and Childless Dead
In primitive society adults who die unmarried
are regarded as unfortunate because they have
missed what is generally esteemed the crowning
blessing of life. It is thought that their ghosts are
therefore very unhappy in the spirit land : they
repine at their solitary lot, and may seek to repair
it either by finding a mate for themselves among the
living, or by appealing to their surviving friends to
furnish them with one. Thus in one way or another
the spirits of the unmarried dead may'become very
1 (Sir) Baldwin Spencer and F. J. Central Australia (London, 1914),
Gillen, The Northern Tribes of pp. 507 sq.
troublesome to the kinsfolk whom they have left on
earth. To appease their importunate desires many
peoples have resorted to a ceremony of posthumous
marriage, either of the dead to the dead, or of the
dead to the living, or of the dead to some substitute
for a living mate.
The Fijians, for example, were strongly im­
pressed with the notion of the unhappiness of the
unmarried dead in the spirit land ; hence when a
man died they used to strangle his widow in order
that her spirit should attend him to the spirit land.
“ An excuse for the practice of widow-strangling
may be found in the fact that, according to Fijian
belief, it is a needful precautionary measure ; for at
a certain place on the way to Mbulu (Hades) there
lies in wait a terrible god called Nangga-nangga,
who is utterly implacable towards the ghosts of
the unmarried. He is especially ruthless towards
bachelors, among whom he persists in classing all
male ghosts who come to him unaccompanied by
their wives. Turning a deaf ear to their protesta­
tions, he seizes them, lifts them above his head, and
breaks them in two by dashing them down on a
projecting rock. Hence it is absolutely necessary
for a man to have at least one of his wives, or at
all events a female ghost of some sort, following
him.
“ Women are let off more easily. If the wife die
before her husband, the desolate widower cuts off
his beard, and puts it under her left armpit. This
serves as her certificate of marriage, and on her pro­
236 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS* OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD *3 7
ducing it to Nangga-nangga he allows her to
pass.” 1
In Savoe, an island of the Indian Archipelago,
the people marry very young, often when they
are mere children. These early marriages are con­
nected with the religious ideas of the people. For
they think that the souls of those who die unmarried
do not go to the spirit land, which is in Soemba.
The Savoenese Charon, by name Ama Piga Laga,
refuses to ferry unmarried persons over to the place
where the dead live. Hence the souls of the un­
wedded dead are doomed to roam about Savoe.
They run along the shore lamenting : rest and peace
they never find.1
2
In Africa the Bavenda, a Bantu tribe of the
Northern Transvaal, have a curious mode of pro­
viding the unhappy ghost of a dead bachelor with
a substitute for a wife. The method has been
described as follows : “ There is one interesting rite
in connexion with the spirit world that is still occa­
sionally performed. There is a Tshivenda expres­
sion— ‘u lubumbukavha ? ’—which has the same
meaning as the English ‘Are you daft ? ’ or 1Are
you all there ? ’ This word lubumbukavha (simple­
ton), is also used to describe any young man above
the age of puberty who dies before he has been given
a wife; he is a poor foolish fellow, having left the
1 L. Fison, “ Notes on Fijian lijke toestandeno& Savoe ” , in Mede-
Burial Customs ” , in Journal of the deelingenvanwege hetNederlandsche
Royal Anthropological Institute, x. Zendelinggenootsckap, xxxvi. {1892)
(1881) p. 139. p. 407.
2 J. K. Wijngaarden, “ De zede-
world ignorant of the all-important subject of sex
and parenthood, and dying before he has fulfilled
the purpose for which he was born. If he is not
pacified he may become a source of endless trouble
to his lineage. So he is given an old used hoe-
handle (gulelwa), with a cotton string tied near the
hole, to symbolize a wife, the string being her waist­
band and the hole the female genitalia. A girl,
never the deceased man’s sister, fixes this symbol at
a fork in the path in a well-cleared open space where
the young man’s spirit can clearly see it, with the
handle pointing towards him as he faces his old
village. The handle is fixed with four pegs made
of the tskiralala tree (from uralala, to wander about),
or of the tshilivhalo (from ulivhala, to forget). Two
are knocked into the ground on each side of the
head and tied to it with a string made of wild
cotton which has been treated with a mixture made
from the roots of the vhulivkadza (from u livhadza,
to make forget), and the mpeta (to dissolve or tie
up), with powder from the hedgehog quill, thoni
(bashfulness). These preparations, as can be seen
by their names, are used to confuse the young man’s
spirit so that it will forget its anger, become bashful
and ashamed, and run away before reaching the
village. When the handle is properly fixed, a woman
of the dead man's lineage, generally the makhadzi
(father’s sister), pours beer into the hole of the hoe,
saying : ‘ To-day we have found you a wife ; the
wife is here. Do not worry us any more. If you
are annoyed with us, come here.’ This ends the
238 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS*OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 239
ceremony, and the spirit of the young man is sup­
posed to be satisfied for ever. A similar rite is, very
rarely, performed after the death of a girl dying
unmarried, having reached the age of puberty.
Such a girl is called luphoju, the blind one, as she
has died without any knowledge of sexual’life. A
peg is driven through the hole in the hoe handle that
is provided for the comfort of her spirit, to symbolize
the male organ. The two rites are identical in all
else." 1
Among the Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro in
East Africa, when an adult man dies unmarried
his family looks out for a woman whom they may
marry to his ghost in the spirit land. His father
goes to a man whose daughter has died unmarried,
and says to him, “ Give me your dead daughter for
my dead son, who is alone The father of the
unmarried girl kills a goat, and brings the animal’s
head to the father of the unmarried youth. The
father buries the animal’s head as a symbol of the
maiden’s head under the sepulchral monument, and
sets over it the three stones which are usually placed
on a woman’s grave in reference to the stones of her
domestic hearth, at which the woman used to be
busied in her lifetime. In doing so he says to his
dead son, " To-day you have your marriage ”. In
addition, the usual offerings are made to the dead.
If the father of the dead youth is poor, he pays only
*
1 H. A. Stayt, The Bavenda (Lon- toms ” , in the Journal of ike Royal
don, 1931), pp. 241 sq. Cf. Rev. E. Anthropological Institute, xxxv.
Gottschling, “ The Bavenda, a (1905) p. 381.
Sketch of their History and Cus-
a symbolical bride-price to the girl's father, by
handing him a piece of wood, instead of the usual
beer and the goat. After this marriage of the dead
the father of the dead bride says, “ Now I must help
my daughter to cook He then brings small por­
tions of food to the parents of the dead bride­
groom, who are now deemed the parents-in-law of
his dead daughter, and they eat the food which he
brings them. Among rich people it sometimes hap­
pens that the father of the dead bachelor himself
marries a living woman as a wife for his deceased
son. The marriage is celebrated in the ordinary
way, but without any mention of the dead man.
But the wife is called the wife of the dead man. For
example, if the father were called Muro, and the son
were called Nsau, the bride is called the wife of
Nsau, and any children she may have are called the
children of Nsau. The first male child born to
her is known by the name of his living father, as if
the father were the grandfather of the infant, and
the first-born female child is known by the name of
her mother, as if she were her grandmother, in
accordance with the custom of the Wajagga, -who
name first-born children after their grandparents
and not after their parents. The present case is
only an apparent exception to the rule that the name
of a father has never been borne by his son.1
Among the Akamba, a Bantu tribe of Kenya,
if a young unmarried man is killed away from his
1 B. Gutmarm, Dichten und Den- Dundas, Kilimanjaro and its People
ken der Dschagganeger (Leipzig, (London, 1924), pp. 249 sq.
t909)j PP- 81 sq. Cf. Hon. Chas.
240 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS. OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 241
village, his spirit (muimu) will return there and
speak to the people through the medium of an old
woman in a dance, and say, “ I am So-and-So speak­
ing, and I want a wife ”. The youth’s father will
then make arrangements to buy a girl from another
village and bring her to his, and she will Be called
the wife of the deceased, speaking of him by name.
She will presently be married to a brother of the
dead man, but she must continue to live in the village
where the deceased had his home. If at any time
her living husband beats or ill-treats her, and she in
consequence runs away to her father, the spirit of
her dead husband will come and pester the people
of the village and they will have bad luck. The
ghost will probably ask, through the usual medium,
why his wife has been ill-treated and driven away.
The head of the family will then take steps to induce
the girl to return for fear of the wrath of the spirit
of his deceased son.1 Among the Shilluk, a tribe
of the Upper Nile, if a chief or other distinguished
man dies, after betrothal but before marriage, so that
his relations might fear the vengeance of his dis­
satisfied ghost, the father of the betrothed girl takes
her to the grave and marries her to the dead man.
He says to the dead man, “ Herewith I bring you
my daughter, that you may marry her ”. The
bride is then considered to be related to all her dead
husband’s kinsfolk, but the relationship is not so
strict as to exclude her subsequent marriage to a
1 C. W. Hobley, “ Further Re* Journal ofthe Royal Anthropological
searches into Kikuyu and Kamba Institute, xli. (1911) p. 422.
Religious Beliefs and Customs ” , in
VO L, III R
living man. At her marriage to her dead husband
offerings are made to the spirits of many of her great
ancestors now deceased, just as they would be
entitled to receive them if they were still in life.
That is a right of the kinsfolk which they do not lose
even by' death.1 Among the Dinkas, another tribe
of the Upper Nile, when an unmarried man dies his
brother must marry a woman especially to raise up
seed to the deceased. Should he fail to do so his
dead brother's spirit would cause his living brother’s
children to die, or prevent the birth of children if
none had been born already. If a man has several
dead unmarried brothers he must take a wife for
each before he may take one for himself.8 A
similar custom prevails among the Nuer, another
tribe of the same region. If an unmarried man dies
a wife must be found who will bear children to him
lest his spirit should be angry.3
The Baigas, a primitive Dravidian tribe of the
Central Provinces in India, think that the souls of
unmarried persons become malignant spirits (bhuts)
after death, and in that form haunt trees, while the
souls of the married dead dwell in streams.4 The
Bhats, another caste of the Central Provinces in
India, think that the spirit of a Brahman boy who
died unmarried will haunt any person who steps
over his grave in an impure condition or otherwise
1 W. Hofmayr, Die Shilluk (St, 2 Seligman, op. cit. p. 164,
Gabriel bei Wien, 1925), p, 293. Of. 8 Seligman, op. cit. p. 220.
C. G. and B. Z. Seligman, The Pagan 4 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and
Tribes of the Nilotic Sudan (London, Castes of the Central Provinces of
1932), pp. 68 sq. India, ii. 86.
242 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 243
defiles it, and when a man is haunted in such a
manner it is called Brahm laga. Then an exorcist
is called, who sprinkles water over the possessed
man, and this burns the Brahm Deo or spirit inside
him as if it were burning oil. The spirit cries out,
and the exorcist orders him to leave the man. Then
the spirit tells him how he has been injured by the
man, and refuses to leave him. The exorcist asks
the spirit what he requires on condition of leaving
the man, and the spirit asks for some good food or
something else, and is given it. Then the exorcist
takes a nail and goes to a plpal tree, and orders the
spirit to go into the tree. The spirit obeys, and the
exorcist drives the nail into the tree. After that
the spirit remains imprisoned in the tree until some­
body takes the nail out, whereupon he will come out
of the tree and haunt the man who drew out the nail.1
The Kirs, another caste of the Central Provinces in
India, are of opinion that the souls of persons who
die unmarried, or without children, are always prone
to trouble their living kinsfolk.
To appease these unquiet spirits songs are sung
in their praise on important festivals, the members
of the family staying awake all night and wearing
the images of the dead on silver pieces round their
necks. When they eat and drink they first touch the
food with the image by way of offering it to the dead,
so that their spirits may be appeased and refrain
from harassing the living.2 We have already seen
1 R. V. Russell, op. cit. ii. pp 266 2 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iii. 483.
244 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
that, before the Sansia—another caste of the Cen­
tral Provinces—sacrifice to the beneficent spirits of
ancestors, they offer sacrifice to the spirits of the un­
married dead, lest these malignant beings should
seize and defile the offerings made to the beneficent
ancestors.1 Among the Savars, a primitive tribe
of the Central Provinces, if a person dies without
a child a hole is made in a stone and his soul is con­
jured into it by a sorcerer (gunia). A few grains of
rice are placed in the hole, and it is then closed with
melted lead to imprison the ghost, and the stone is
thrown into a stream, so that it may never be able
to get out and trouble the family.2 Among the
Segidi, the Telugu caste of toddy-drawers and dis­
tillers in India, if an adult man dies unmarried, a
ceremony of marriage is performed between the
corpse and a plantain tree, and if an unmarried
woman dies she is married to a sword.®
This custom of performing a marriage ceremony
for the benefit of persons who died unmarried ap­
pears to be not uncommon in India, the intention
being to satisfy and pacify the ghost of the deceased,
and to prevent him from troubling the survivors
with his importunate attentions. On this subject
Mr. Abbott writes as follows : “ One more form
of mock marriage is the marriage of a dead person
to a rui-tree or branch. Brahmins do this when a
Brahmacari ” (a boy who has taken his thread cere­
mony) “ dies before marriage ; Lingdyats perform
1 See above, page 168. Survey, iv., Draft Articles on Tamil
2 R. V. Russell, op. cit. iv. 507. and Telugu Castes (Allahabad,
9CentralProvinces, Ethnographic 1907), p. 67.
Ill GHOSTS OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 245
this marriage both when a girl dies a virgin and
when a man dies unmarried. When the deceased
is a girl a male rul is used, and a female tree when the
deceased is a man. Sometimes the body is taken
to a standing rui-tree in the cremation ground ;
sometimes a twig of the tree is brought to the house
where the dead body lies. The twig and the corpse
are smeared with turmeric powder and covered with
yellow clothes; the two are tied together with
thread, aksat (unbroken rice) is thrown on them and
sacrificial hom (fires) are performed. The tree after
being uprooted or the twig is burnt and the obsequies
for thirteen days are performed in the usual way.
The basis of this form of mock marriage is the belief
that anyone dying with unsatisfied desires returns
to this world as a ghost in a vain attempt to satisfy
his desires. This fear has created in India quite
a number of dreaded ghosts.” The dreaded ghost
of a Brahman boy who has died unmarried is called
Munja}-
These ceremonies of mock marriage performed
for the satisfaction of the ghosts of persons who have
died unmarried appear to be particularly common
in the south of India. Thus among the Ganigas,
an oil-pressing class of the Canarese people, if a
young man dies a bachelor, the corpse is married to
an arka plant (Calotropis gigantea), and decorated
with a wreath made of the flowers thereof.2 Again
among the Siviyar, when an adult' person dies
1 J. Abbott, The Keys of Power of Southern India (Madras, 1909),
(London, 1932), pp. 291 sq. ii. 267.
2 E. Thurston, Castes and Tribes
unmarried, the corpse is made to go through a mock
marriage with a human figure cut out of a palm leaf.1
So among the Vaniyan, oil-pressers among the
Tamils, if a man dies a bachelor, a mock ceremony
of marriage is performed for his benefit. The
corpse is wedded to the arka plant (Calotropis
gigantea), and decorated with a wreath made of the
flowers thereof.2 Among the Kbmatis, the great
trading caste of the Madras Presidency, if a man
and woman have been living together and the man
dies unmarried his corpse is formally married to the
living woman. When the death has been announced
a priest is summoned and the ceremony proceeds.
It has been described as follows by an eye-witness :
“ The dead body of the man was placed against the
outer wall of the verandah of the house in a sitting
posture, attired like a bridegroom, and the face and
hands besmeared with turmeric. The woman was
clothed like a bride, and adorned with the usual
tinsel ornament over the face, which, as well as
the arms, was daubed over with yellow. She sat
opposite the dead body, and spoke to it in light
unmeaning words, and then chewed bits of cocoanut
and squirted them on the face of the dead man.
This continued for hours, and not till near sunset
was the ceremony brought to a close. Then the
head of the corpse was bathed, and covered with a
cloth of silk, the face rubbed over with some red
powder, and betel leaves placed in the mouth. Now
she might consider herself married, and the funeral
1 Thurston, op. cit. vi. 391. 2 Thurston, vii. 315.
246 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS'OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 247
procession started.” 1 Again among the Todas,
a primitive pastoral people of the Nilgiri Hills in
Southern India, ceremonies of marriage are per­
formed for the benefit of the ghosts of the unmarried
dead. One such ceremony was witnessed by Mr.
Edgar Thurston, one of our best authorities on the
ethnology of Southern India. He writes as follows :
“ At the funeral of an unmarried Toda girl, which
I witnessed, the corpse was made to go through a
form of marriage ceremony. A small boy, three
years old, was selected from among the relatives of
the dead girl, and taken by his father in search of a
grass and the twig of a shrub (Sopkora glauca),
which were brought to the spot where the corpse
was lying. The mother of the dead child then
withdrew one of its hands from the putkuli (cloth)
in which it was wrapped, and the boy placed the
grass and the twig in the hand, and limes, plantains,
rice, jaggery, honey-comb and butter in the pocket
of the putkuli, which was then stitched with needle
and thread. The boy’s father then took off his
son’s putkuli, and covered him with it from head to
foot. Thus covered, the boy remained outside the
hut till the morning of the morrow, watched through
the night by near relatives of himself and his
dead bride.” 2 Once more, among the Maravars, a
Dravidian tribe in the extreme south of India, if a
man and woman are too poor to afford the cost of
the complete marriage rites, they content themselves
1 E. Thurston, Ethnographic 2 Thurston, op. cit. pp. 105 sq.
Notes in Southern India (Madras, Cf. W. H. R. Rivers, The Todas
1906), p. 105. (London, 1906), pp. 391 sqq
with tying the tali or marriage knot, and then
begin to cohabit. But the other ceremonies must be
performed at some time, or, as the phrase goes,
“ the defect must be cured ”. Should the husband
happen to die before he can afford to cure the defect,
his friends and kinsfolk will at once borrow money,
and the marriage will be duly completed in the
presence and on behalf of the corpse, which must be
placed on one seat with the woman, and made to
represent a bridegroom. The tali is then taken off,
and the widow is free to marry again.1
Among the Chinese settled in Siam, if a young
man is betrothed to a girl and dies before marriage,
his betrothed may claim to be married to him, or
rather to the ancestral tablet which represents him
in the domestic shrine at his father’s house. In such
a case the ceremony of marriage is the same as that
performed for a living bride and bridegroom.2 In
China itself the marriage of the dead to each other
was practised by the Hak-ka, a native Chinese race
in the province of Canton. Among them if a boy
dies before his parents have had time to choose a
bride for him, they seek, among their neighbours
and friends, someone who has lost a daughter of the
same age. When they find what they want the
parents of both families meet and contract a solemn
matrimonial engagement in the name of their dead
children. The marriage ceremony is celebrated in
exactly the same way as it would be if the bride and
1 Thurston, op. cit. p. 106. PAssociation de la Propagation de
2 Mgr, Braguiere, in Annales de la Foi, v. (1831) 185.
248 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
bridegroom were living and not dead. They think
that thus they unite the spirits of the two children
in a spiritual wedlock.1
But indeed this custom of marrying the dead to
the dead, or the living to the dead, has been a national
institution in China from antiquity down to modern
times. It is entirely in harmony with that system
of ancestor worship which forms the theoretical basis
of Chinese society, for they think that the spirit of a
man who has died unmarried and childless is not
only unhappy in itself, but involves his family in
the deepest misfortune and degradation by depriving
them of anyone who can offer to their shades the
things which they need for their happiness and wel­
fare in the world beyond the grave.2
Evidence of the great antiquity of the custom in
China has been adduced by the late J. J. M. De
Groot in his classical work on the religious system
of China. He writes : “ The books of the Empire
literally abound with passages which show that re­
uniting women with their pre-deceased husbands
in the grave has constantly prevailed in China as a
regular custom. . . . Human immolations at burials
naturally imply the prevalence of a conception that
it is urgently necessary to be accompanied into the
next life by a wife or concubines, to prevent one’s
being doomed there to the dreary life of a solitary
widower. Consequently, it is only natural that in
ancient China there existed the curiotis custom of
1 Dr. Eitel, “ Les Hak-Ka ” , 2 E . Wesfcermarck, The Origin
trans. by M. G. Dumoutier, in DAn~ and Development of the Moral Ideas,
thropologie, v. (1893) I75* ii. 400.
ill GHOSTS’ OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 249
placing deceased females in the tombs of lads who
had died before they were married. The prevalence
in those times of such post-mortem weddings for the
next world is revealed to us by the following passage
in the Cheu l i : ‘ The Officer charged with the
Preparation of Marriages is to prevent women
already buried from being transferred to other
tombs, to be thus given in marriage to deceased
minor youths The legislators of the time, dis­
liking the sacrilegious removal of women from their
graves, deemed themselves in duty bound to forbid
the practice in question ; but they do not appear
to have included in their veto such marrying of
deceased women at the time of their burial. The
latter weddings may afortiori be supposed to have
been very common ; and that they were firmly
rooted in the then customs and manners ofthe people
may be inferred from the fact that they have pre­
vailed ever since, being frequently mentioned in the
books of all ages. This point is of sufficient interest
to deserve illustration by a short series of quotations.
“ In the Memoirs of the Three Kingdoms we
read: ‘The daughter of Ping Yuen died when still
young, at the same time as Ts’ang-shu, the favourite
son of the Emperor T’ai Tsu (a .d . 220-227), breathed
his last. The Emperor tried to have them buried
in the same grave, but Yuen refused his consent,
saying that such burials were not recognized by the
laws of morals. Therefore the deceased prince was
betrothed to a deceased daughter of the family Chen,
and she was placed with him in the same grave.
250 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS *
0 F THE UNMARRIED DEAD 251
And when Shuh, the young daughter of the emperor
Ming of the same dynasty (a .d . 227—
239), had died,
he buried together with her one Hwang, a grandson
of the brother of the empress Chen, conferred the
posthumous title of Imperial Prince upon him, and
appointed for him a Continuator with the hereditary
rank of a noble.' This event becomes all the more
curious when we are told that this Hwang was a
mere baby. It is in fact stated in the Standard
Annals of that time that the magnate Ch’en Khiiin
rebuked the emperor for having the obsequies of
this child, though not a year old, conducted with
the same ceremonies as appertained to up-grown
people. Post-mortem marriages in those times being
concluded even in the Imperial family, and between
infants so very young, we may safely draw the con­
clusion that they were the order of the day between
adults among the people.
“ To convince our readers that such marriages
were of frequent occurrence in ensuing ages, we
need not make a large number of quotations. A
couple of instances, drawn from the Imperial court-
life, will suffice. ‘P’ing Ch’ing, son of Muh Ch’ung,
died when he was still young. During the reign
of Hiao Wen (a .d . 471—
499), the Imperial princess
Shi-p’ing died in the Palace. The posthumous
dignity of Prince Consort was then conferred upon
P’ing-Ch’ing, and he was united with the Princess
in marriage for the World of Shades.’ Three
centuries afterwards ‘ the Imperial concubine Wei
caused her deceased younger brother Siun, after the
dignity of Prince of Jti-nan had been conferred upon
him, to be united in marriage for the next life with
a deceased daughter of (Siao) Chi-chung, and she
had them buried together in one grave. But after
this lady Wei had been defeated (in an attempt to
usurp fhe throne), Chi-chung opened the grave,
took his daughter’s coffin out of it and brought it
home ’, thus showing that the ties of relationship
with a traitress to the cause of lawful government
were cut off by him.
“ An interesting account of the manner in which
such post-mortem marriages were concluded at a
period when the Sung dynasty governed the Empire,
is given by a contemporary work in the following
words: ‘ In the northern parts of the Realm it is
customary, when an unmarried youth and an un­
married girl breathe their last, that the two families
each charge a match-maker to demand the other
party in marriage. Such go-betweens are called :
match-makers for disembodied souls. They ac­
quaint the two families with each other’s circum­
stances, and then cast lots for the marriage by order
of the parents on both sides. If they augur that
the union will be a happy one, (wedding) garments
for the next world are cut out and the match-makers
repair to the grave of the lad, there to set out wine
and fruit for the consummation of the marriage.
Two seats are placed side by side, and a small
streamer is set up near each seat. If these streamers
move a little after the libation has been performed,
the souls are believed to approach each other; but
252 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS *OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 253
if one of them does not move, the party represented
thereby is considered to disapprove of the marriage.
Each family has to reward its match-maker with a
present of woven stuffs. Such go-betweens make
a regular livelihood out of these proceedings. . . .’
“ The following instance of a marriage between
deceased persons, which occurred in the fourteenth
century, must not be passed unnoticed, because it
proves more clearly than any other case on record
that in times relatively modern the old conception
still obtained that a wife’s place is at the side of her
deceased husband in the life hereafter, and that she
may not suffer another woman to occupy her place
there. ‘ Madam Yang was a native of Sii-ch’ing in
Tung-p’ing (province of Shantung). Her husband
Kwoh San marched off from Siang Yang with the
army, and she, being left behind, served her parents-
in-law so perfectly that she obtained a great repute
for filial devotion. In the sixth year of the period
Chiyuen (a .d . 1340) her husband died in his garrison.
Then her own mother laid schemes for taking her
home and marrying her again, but, bitterly wailing,
she took such an oath that these schemes were not
carried out. After some time, when the mortal
remains of her husband were brought home, her
father-in-law said : *She, having been married to
him only a short time, and being still young, will
certainly marry again in the end ; ought I to leave
my son under the ground in a state of ‘loneliness ? ’
But when he was on the point of requesting a fellow
villager to give him the bones of his deceased
daughter, that he might bury them in the same grave
with his son, Madam Yang being informed of his
project became still more overwhelmed by grief, and
refused all food. Five days afterwards she hung
herself, upon which she was buried with her husband
in the same grave. . . .
“Yang Yung-siu, an author who lived under the
Ming dynasty, asserts that the custom of uniting
dead persons in marriage was prevalent in his time.
‘ Nowadays he writes, ‘ it is still practised among
the people, and it is not forbidden by anybody or
anything. Consequently such marriages must have
prevailed under former dynasties.’ Whether the
custom still exists at the present time we are not able
to say, as no case has come under our notice whilst
in China. But, considering that it has flourished
for so many ages, we can scarcely believe it has en­
tirely died out even now.” 1
That the custom of marrying the dead to the dead
in China persisted in full blast down to the second
half of the nineteenth century we know from the
evidence of the Rev. J. H. Gray, Archdeacon of
Hongkong, who personally witnessed the ceremony
and described it as follows : “ One other marriage
custom, as absurd as it is wicked, remains to be
noted. In China, not merely the living are married,
but the dead also. Thus the spirits of all males who
die in infancy or in boyhood are in due course of
time married to the spirits of females who have been
2 54 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
1 J. J. M. De Groot, The Religious System of China (Leyden, 1894),
vol. ii. Book L, pp. 802-806.
cut offat a like early age. If a youth of twelve years
dies, it is customary when he has been dead six or
seven years for his parents to seek to unite his spirit
in wedlock with that of a girl whose birth and death
corresponded in point of time with those of their son.
For this purpose application is made to a go-between,
and when a selection has been made from this func­
tionary’s list of deceased maidens, an astrologer is
consulted. When the astrologer, having cast the
horoscopes of the two departed spirits, has pro­
nounced the selection judicious, a lucky night is set
apart for the solemnization of the marriage. On
that night, a paper figure representing a bridegroom
in full marriage costume is placed in the ceremonial
hall of his parents’ house; and at nine o’clock, or
in some instances later, a bridal chair, which is
sometimes made of a rattan-frame covered with
paper, is despatched in the name of the spirit of the
youth to the house of the parents of the deceased
girl, with a request that they will be so good as to
allow the spirit of their daughter to seat itself therein
for the purpose of being conveyed to her new home.
As one of the three souls of which the body of a
Chinese is supposed to be possessed, is said after
death to remain with the ancestral tablet, the tablet
bearing the name of the girl is removed from the
ancestral altar and placed in the bridal chair, where
it is supplemented by a paper figure meant to repre­
sent the bride. The bridal procession is headed
by two musicians, one of whom plays upon a lute
and the other upon a tom-tom, and sometimes the
ill GHOSTS-OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 255
256 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
wearing apparel which belonged to the deceased girl,
and which for the future is to be in the keeping of the
parents of the departed youth, is carried in it. On
the arrival of the procession, the tablet and the effigy
are removed from the bridal chair, and placed, the
former on the ancestral altar, and the latter on a chair
close to that occupied by the effigy of the bridegroom.
A table covered with various kinds of viands is
placed before the effigies, while five or six priests of
Taou are engaged in chanting prayers to the spirits,
calling upon them to receive one another as husband
and wife, and to partake of the wedding repast. At
the close of this ceremony the effigies are burned,
together with a great quantity of paper clothes, paper
money, paper man-servants and maid-servants, fans,
tobacco-pipes, and sedan chairs. I was once present
at such a ceremony. It took place at the house of
a China friend named Cha Kum-hoi, who resided
in the Kwong-ga-lee street of the western suburb of
Canton. The immediate occasion of this marriage
was, it so happened, the illness of this gentleman’s
wife, which was attributed by the geomancer or
fortune-teller to the angry spirit of her son, who was
importunate to be married. A matrimonial engage­
ment was therefore immediately entered into on
behalf of the deceased son, and was solemnized as
I have described it.” 1
The latest notice of a marriage of the dead in
China which I have met with dates from 1891. It
runs as follows : “ A writer in the North China
1 J. H, Gray, China (London, 1878), i. pp. 216 sqq.
■Daily News records a case of something like a post­
mortem marriage, in which a Chinese girl, recently
deceased, was married to a dead boy in another
village. ‘ It not unfrequently happens ’, he ex­
plains, ‘ that the son in the family dies before he
is married, and that it is desirable to adopt a grand­
son. The family cast about for some young girl who
has also died recently, and a proposition is made for
the union of the two corpses in the bonds of matri­
mony. If it is accepted, there is a combination of
a wedding and a funeral, in the process of which the
deceased bride is taken by a large number of bearers
to the cemetery of the other family and laid beside
her husband/ ” 1
A similar custom of marrying the dead to the
dead prevailed among the Tartars, and has been
described by Marco Polo as follows : “ If any man
have a daughter who dies before marriage, and
another man have had a son also die before marriage,
the parents of the two arrange a grand wedding
between the dead lad and lass. And marry them
they do, making a regular contract! And when
the contract papers are made out they put them in
the fire, in order (as they will have it) that the parties
in the other world will know the fact, and look on
each other as man and wife. And the parents
thenceforward consider themselves sib to each other
just as if their children had lived and married.
Whatever may be agreed on between the parties
1 Folk-lore, vol. ii. (1891), quoting Pall Mall Gazette, 5th November
1890.
VO L. I ll
Ill GHOSTS OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 257
S
as dowry, those who have to pay it cause to be
painted on pieces of paper and then put these in the
fire, saying that in that way the dead person will
get all the real articles in the other world.” 1 The
same custom is also vouched for the Tartars by
Alexancfer Guagninus.1
2
Among the Ingush of the Caucasus when a man's
son dies another man whose daughter is dead will
go to him and say, “ Your son may need a wife in
the other world, I will give him my daughter. Pay
me the price of the bride.” Such an obliging offer
is never refused, though the price of a bride is some­
times as much as thirty cows.3
A similar custom of marriages contracted for the
benefit of the dead has been known, and to a limited
extent appears still to survive, among some Slav
peoples. On this subject Mr. Ralston writes as
follows: “ Strongly impressed with the idea that
those whom the nuptial bond had united in this
world were destined also to live together in the world
to come, they so sincerely pitied the lot of the un­
married dead, that, before committing their bodies
to the grave, they were in the habit of finding them
partners for eternity. The fact that, among some
Slavonian peoples, if a man died a bachelor a wife
1 Marco Polo, translated by Col. libera civitate, 1582), p. 253.
H. Yule, Second Edition (London,
1875), i* 259 s3' 3 J- von Klaproth, Raise in den
2 “ De Religione Muscovitarum Kaukasus und nack Gorgien, i. 616
omniumque Ruthehorum ” , printed sq ; Potocki, Voyage dans les Steps
in De Russorum, Muscovitarum, et d*Astrakhan et du Caucase (Paris,
Tartarorum religione, sacrificiis> 1829), i. 127 (who, however, merely
nuptiarum, funerum ritu (Spirae copies Klaproth).
258 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill GHOSTS'OF THE UNMARRIED DEAD 259
was allotted to him after his death rests on the
authority of several witnesses, and in a modified
form the practice has been retained in some places
up to the present day. In Little Russia, for in­
stance, a dead maiden is dressed in nuptial attire,
and friends come to her funeral as to a wedding,
and a similar custom is observed on the death of a
lad. In Podolia, also, a young girl’s funeral is
conducted after the fashion of a wedding, a youth
being chosen as the bridegroom who attends her to
the grave, with the nuptial kerchief twined around
his arm. From that time her family consider him
their relative, and the rest of the community look
upon him as a widower. In some parts of Servia,
when a lad dies, a girl dressed as a bride follows him
to the tomb, carrying two crowns ; one of these is
thrown to the corpse, and the other she keeps, at
least for a time.1
It was an ancient Greek custom to place on the
tombs of all unmarried persons, whether male or
female, a pitcher ofa peculiar shape called the “ bath-
bearer ” {loutrophoros). Examples of such pitchers
have been found. In shape they are tall and
slender, with a high neck and high handles on either
side. Some of the ancient interpreters, who wrote
after the custom had fallen into disuse, supposed
that the “ bath-bearers ” placed on the tombs of
the unmarried were figures of boys or girls carrying
such pitchers ;2 but archaeological discoveries have
1 W. R. S. Ralston, The Songs of 2 Harpocration and Suidas, s.v.
the Russian People (London, 1872), “ Aoirrp6(j>opo$” : Pollux, viii. 66.
PP* 309 sq.
260 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
confirmed the view of Eustathius in his great com­
mentary on Homer1 that it was the pitcher itself,
or at all events a representation of it carved in relief,
which was thus used to mark the graves of maids
and bachelors. The intention was, according to
Eustathius, to intimate that the person on whose
grave one of these pitchers stood had never enjoyed
the bath which a Greek bride and bridegroom took
on their wedding day, and for which the water was
fetched from a special spring by a boy who was a
near kinsman.2 It may be suggested that the
custom of placing such a pitcher, so intimately con­
nected with marriage, on the grave of an unmarried
person, was originally part of a ceremony designed
to provide his or her spirit with a spouse in the spirit
land, by means of a marriage ceremony, like that
which we have seen celebrated for the same purpose
by so many peoples in so many lands.®V
I
I
.
VII. Ghosts of the Unburied Dead
In primitive society it is generally believed that
the soul of a recently deceased person is much con­
cerned with the disposal of his mortal remains. He
desires that his surviving relatives should treat
them with all due respect, by interring or otherwise
disposing of them in the traditional manner, includ-
1 Eustathius, Commentary on saying that the water was fetched by
Homer, Iliad, p, 4293, referring to a girl.
Iliad xxxii. 141.
2 Harpocration and Suidas, loc. 8 Cf. my commentary on Pau-
citn Photius, Lexicon, sjv. “ Xovrpa sanias, Book X. chapter xxxi. 9 (vol.
Pollux, iii. 43, who may be wrong in v. pp. 388 sqq,).
Ill GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 261
ing the performance of rites intended to please and
satisfy the ghost. If this satisfaction is not accorded
to him his spirit is perturbed and dissatisfied, and
may visit his displeasure on his undutiful kinsfolk.
Every effort therefore is made by the survivors to
find the mortal remains and to lay them to rest with
every mark of reverence and honour. But some­
times the body cannot be found, as for example
when a person has been drowned at sea, or devoured
by wild beasts in the forest, or has furnished the
materials of a cannibal feast to his enemies in war.
In all such cases the ghost is supposed still to claim
his satisfaction, and to meet his imperious desires
his friends have recourse to a simple device : they
make an effigy of him, or try to find some personal
relic of his, and over the one or the other they per­
form all the funeral rites just as if the substitute were
the real body of the deceased. This is thought fully
to satisfy the desires of the ghost, who accordingly
leaves the survivors in peace.
Thus among the Maoris of New Zealand, when
a chief was killed in battle, and his body eaten by
his foes, his spirit was supposed to enter the stones
of the oven with which his body had been cooked,
which retained their heat so long as it remained in
them. His friends repeated their most powerful
spells to draw his spirit out of the stones, and bring
it within the sacred grove (wahi tapiS), for it was
thought that otherwise it could not rest, but would
wander about inflicting injury upon the living, all
spirits being considered maliciously inclined towards
2 6 2 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD C H .
the survivors. So when any were slain in battle,
if the body could not be obtained, the friends en­
deavoured to procure some of the blood, or fragments
of their garments, over which they uttered their
spells {karakia), and thus brought the wandering
soul within this spiritual fold. These places are
still looked upon with much fear, as the spirits are
thought occasionally to wander from them and
cause sickness.1
Of the natives of Samoa we are told that the
unburied dead caused great concern. “ No Roman
was ever more grieved at the thought of his unburied
friend wandering a hundred years along the banks
of the Styx than were the Samoans while they
thought of the spirit of one who had been drowned,
or of another who had fallen in war, wandering about
neglected and comfortless. They supposed the
spirit haunted them everywhere, night and day, and
imagined they heard it calling upon them in a most
pitiful tone, and saying, ‘ Oh, how cold ! oh, how
cold ! ’ Nor were the Samoans, like the ancient
Romans, satisfied with a mere tumulus inanis at
which to observe the usual solemnities; they
thought it was possible to obtain the soul of the
departed in some tangible transmigrated form. On
the beach, near where a person had been drowned,
and whose body was supposed to have become a
porpoise, or on the battlefield, where another fell,
might have been seen, sitting in silence, a group of
1Rev. R. Taylor, New Zealand and its Inhabitants (London, 1870), p.
221.
five or six, and one a few yards before them with a
sheet of native cloth spread out on the ground in
front of him. Addressing some god of the family
he said, ‘ Oh, be kind to us ; let us obtain without
difficulty the spirit of the young m an! ’ The first
thing that happened to light upon the sheet was
supposed to be the spirit. If nothing came it was
supposed that the spirit had some ill-will to the
person praying. That person after a time retired,
and another stepped forward, addressed some other
god, and awaited the result. By and by something
came ; grasshopper, butterfly, ant or whatever else
it might be, it was carefully wrapped up, taken to
the family, the friends assembled, and the bundle
buried with all due ceremony, as if it contained the
real spirit of the departed.” 1
The Nufoors of Dutch New Guinea make
wooden images (korwar) of their dead, conjure the
spirits of the deceased into them, and then preserve
the images in their houses, and consult the inspired
images from time to time as oracles. In general
they make images only of persons who have died
at home. But in the island of Ron such images are
also made of persons who have died away from
home or have fallen in battle. In such cases the
difficulty is to compel the soul to quit its mortal
remains far away and come to animate the image.
However, the natives of Ron have found means to
1 G. Turner, Samoa a Hundred Australasian 'Association for the
Years Ago and Long Before (Lon- Advancement of Science, Hobart
don, 1884), 150 sq. Of. Rev. S. (1892), p. 641, who substantially re-
Ella, “ Samoa ” , in Report of the peats Turner's account.
in GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 263
overcome this difficulty. They first carve the
wooden image of the dead person and then call his
soul back to the village by setting a great tree on
fire, while the family assemble round it, and one of
them, holding the image in his hand, acts the part
of medium, shivering and shaking and falling into
a trance after the approved fashion of mediums in
many lands. After this ceremony the image is
supposed to be animated by the soul of the deceased,
and it is kept in the house with as much confidence
as any other.1
Among the Galelareese of Halmahera, an island
to the west of New Guinea, when some one dies away
from home, in a foreign land, as soon as the relations
get news of the death they shear their hair and bathe
as soon as possible, undertaking at the same time
all the obligations incidental to mourning. They
now consult whether to celebrate the death-feast at
once, or to wait until the bones of the deceased have
been brought back from the foreign land. If they
decide to celebrate it at once, they make ready and
decorate a mourning chamber in the house, and
there on the sleeping bench they lay, instead of
the corpse, a puppet (garl) into which the soul of
the deceased has been temporarily conjured by the
seers. After that the usual death-feast takes place.
The ceremony of decorating the grave is usually
deferred until the bones have been brought back
1 F. S. A. de Clercq, f<De Wes- kundig Ge?iooi$ckap, 2de Serie, x.
ten Noordkust van Nederlandsch (1893), P- 621. As to these images
Nieuw-Guinea ” , in Tijdschrift van of the dead {korwar), see Belief in
ket Kon. Nederlandsch Aardrtjks- Immortality, i. pp. 309 sqq.
264 THE f e a r of t h e d e Ad c h .
from abroad.1 In the district of Tobelo in North
Halmahera, when men who are famous for their
bravery die elsewhere and it is desired to secure
their souls for the village, a symbolical burial takes
place for the purpose of making the soul to stay in
the neighbourhood of the dwelling. For this pur­
pose a puppet is made with a peeled coconut for
a head, a pillow for a body, and long rolled-up leaves
for limbs. This puppet is placed either on a hurdle
in the chief house of the village or in the little soul-
house (goma ma-taoe), and a funeral banquet is held
for four days. Then the puppet is wrapped in a
mat and buried. That the soothsayer conjures the
soul into the puppet is not expressly stated by our
authority, but is highly probable.2 The Alfoors of
Poso in Central Celebes make offerings for the
spirits of persons who have been drowned or de­
voured by crocodiles, and whose bodies consequently
have not been found. In such cases the Tolage of
the same region make a wooden image (pemid) of the
missing person, which serves as a substitute for the
body. The Popebats do not make such images :
they only think of the missing person at the festival.
As to persons whose heads have been carried off by
enemies in a raid, some tribes replace the missing
articles with coconuts, others celebrate the festival
over the headless bodies.3
1 M. J. van Baarda, “ Een apo- Ma-Taoe en Goma Ma-Taoe, of
logic voor de Dooden ” , in Bijdrage?i Zielenhuisjes in bet district Tobelo
tot de Taal- Land- en Volkenkunde op Noord-halmahera ” , in Inter­
van Nederlandsck-Indie, Ixix. (The nationales Archivfiir Ethnographic,
Hague, 1914), pp. 86 sq. ii. (1889), p. 211.
2 F. S. A. de Clercq, “ Dodadi 3 A. C. Kruit, “ Een en ander
Ill GHOSTS" OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 265
266 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Among the Ibans or Dyaks of Sarawak in
Borneo, in the case of persons who die far away from
home, as soon as the news of the death arrives at the
village the clothes, ornaments, and other articles of
the deceased are heaped together in the Ruai (com­
mon room) and covered over with a blanket so as to
represent a corpse laid out. This is called the Rapok
and all the usual mortuary rites are performed for
the simulated corpse, just as if it were the body of
the deceased. In the early morning this simulated
corpse is taken to the burial ground, and the articles
of dress are hung about among the trees.1 In Bali,
a small island to the north of Java, when the body
of a deceased person cannot be found his friends
make an image of him out of wood or the leaves of
a certain tree, and celebrate the mortuary rites over
it, instead of over the actual corpse.*
The Annamites believe that when a tiger has
taken a man, the soul of the deceased rides on the
animal's back and guides him back to his house,
where he hopes to find offerings. To prevent this
the people are very careful, as soon as anybody has
been carried off by a tiger, to go in search of his
remains. When they find any part of the corpse,
or merely his turban or tobacco pouch, they make
paper effigies of the tiger and the man, burn them,
aangaande het geestelijk en maat-
schappelijk leven van den Poso
Alfoer ” , in Mededeelingen van wege
het Nederlandsche Zendelinggenoot-
schap, xxxix. (1895), P* 32*
1 L. Nyuak, “ Religious Rites and
Customs of the Iban or Dyaks of
Sarawak ” , translated by Rev. E.
Dunn in Anthropos}i. (1906), p. 171.
2 G. A. Wilken, “ Het Animisme
bij de Volken van den Indischen
Archipel ” , in De Verspreide Ge-
schriften van G. A . Wilken (The
Hague, 1912), iii. pp. 61 sg.
and carefully bury all the remains they have dis­
covered. The soul of the deceased, which had been
supposed to inhabit the tiger, now passes into the
grave, and his family sleeps quiet.1
Among the Black Ta'i, a tribe of mountaineers in
Tonkin, when the body of a deceased relative cannot
be found, as may happen after a battle, they collect
some articles that belonged to him, and with these as
representatives of the dead man they proceed to the
ceremony ofcremation, and to the erection of a tomb,
just as if they were in possession of the corpse.2
Among the Red Karens of Burma, when a man
dies far from home and the body cannot be found,
the funeral cannot take place until the spirit of the de­
ceased has been recalled and has given his consent.
The usual feast is held at home, and in the centre
of the room hangs a bullock bell suspended from the
roof. Dancing and beating of gongs goes on until
the spirit announces his arrival and approval by
tinkling the bullock-bell. If the spirit delays his
coming guns are fired to hasten and guide him on
his way. He never fails to arrive sooner or later.
At the man's house the whole ceremony of funeral
is gone through. An effigy made of straw and cloth
is placed in the coffin to represent the body of the
deceased and the usual rites are performed as if this
were the actual corpse.3
1 R. P. Cadiere, “ Croyances et 2 Col. E. Diguet, Les Monta-
Dictons populaires de la Vallee du guardsduTonkinm
(Paris, 1908), p. 89.
Nguon-son, Province de Quang-binh 3 J. G. Scott and J. P. Hardiman,
(Annam) ” , in Bulletin de V£cole Gazetteer of Upper Burma and the
Franfaised*Extreme-Orient(1901, Shan States (Rangoon, 1900), Part
Hanoi), pp. 135 sq. I, vol. i. p. 528. In this passage.the
hi GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 267
268 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Among the Khasis of North-Eastern India, if a
man dies far from home, for example in a foreign
country, whose body has not been burnt in accord­
ance with custom, and whose bones have not been
collected, the members of his clan, or his children,
take three or five seeds or cowries (sbai) to a place
where three roads meet. Here they summon the
spirit of the departed in a loud voice, and throw up
the seeds or cowries into the air, and when they fall
to the ground they say, “ Come, now, we will collect
you ” (the idea being that the seeds represent the
bones of the deceased). Having collected the seeds,
they place them on a bier and perform the service
for the dead just in the same way as if a real corpse
were to hand. If possible a portion of the dead
person’s clothes should be burned with the seeds in
the bier, and it is for this reason that the coats or
cloths of Khasi coolies, who die when employed as
porters on military expeditions at a distance from
their homes, are brought back by their friends to
give to the relatives.1 According to another account
in such a case the Khasis look in the direction of the
place in which the dead man died, and call upon his
spirit to come back and enter a shell, which is then
burned instead of the body, or if they know exactly
the place where the man died they go thither, and
on their return they scatter leaves on the path to
guide the spirit of the deceased back to his home,
and they stretch strings over streams to help the
writers speak of “ The guardian man's spirit or ghost.
spirit of the deceased ", but the real 1 Lt.-Col. P. R. T. Gurdon, The
reference seems to be to the dead Khasis (London, 1914), pp. 136 sq.
returning soul to cross the water.1 In other parts
of India the custom of burning or burying an effigy
to represent a deceased person when his body cannot
be found appears to be both ancient and widespread.
Thus, for example, “ the Garuda-purana directs that
if a man dies in a remote place, or is killed by
robbers in a forest and his body is not found, his son
should make an effigy of the deceased with Kusa
grass and then burn it on a funeral pile with similar
ceremonies ”.1
2 According to another account in
such a case the effigy should be made of 360 leaves
of the Butea frondosa and as many threads, to re­
present the members of the body, and having been
smeared with meal it was burned on a pyre.3 An
ancient Indian book of ritual, the Grihya Sutra,
ordained that when the corpse could not be found,
360 stems of Paidsa should be wrapped up in a black
goat-skin, such as was regularly spread under the
corpse on the pyre, and the rest of the funeral cere­
monies performed as if the corpse were present.4
Other ancient Indian texts direct that when the body
of a long-deceased person could not be found, but
the place of his death was known, some dust should
be gathered from the spot, or a garment should be
spread out on the bank of a stream, and the name
1 A. Bastian, “ Hugelstamme As* lichen Asien, vi. 12 n. referring to
sams ” , in Verkandlungen der Ber- Colebrooke.
liner Gesellschaft fu r Anthropologie
(1SS1), p. 150. 4 Max Muller, “ Die Todten-
2 Monier Williams, Religious bestattung bei den Brahmanen ” , in
Thought and Life in India (London, Zeitschrift der deutschen morgen-
1883), p. 300. landischen Gesellschaft>ix. Abhang,
8 A. Bastian, Die Volker des oest- p. xxxvi.
in GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 269
270 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
of the deceased called out. After such an invoca­
tion any animal or insect that lighted on the garment
was to be treated as if it were the corpse itself.1
This ancient Indian rite closely resembles the custom
which, as we have seen, the Samoans were wont to
observe dn similar cases. In modern India, when
a person is drowned and his body cannot be found,
a rite known as Palasvidhi is performed. An effigy
of the deceased is made, in which twigs of the Palasa
tree represent the bones, a coconut or Bel fruit the
head, pearls or cowrie shells the eyes, and a piece
of birch bark or the skin of a deer the cuticle. It is
then filled up with Urad pulse instead of flesh and
blood, and a presiding priest recites a spell to bring
life into the image, which is symbolized by putting
a lighted lamp close to the head. When the light
goes out, life is believed to be extinct and the funeral
rites are performed in the regular way, the only
exception being that the period of impurity for the
mourners lasts for three instead of ten days.2
Among the Sunar, a caste of goldsmiths and silver­
smiths in the Central Provinces of India, when a
man has died a violent death and his body cannot
be found, they construct a small image of him and
burn it with all the ceremonies usually observed at
a regular cremation.3 In the Himalayan districts
of the North-West Provinces of India, when a father
dies in a strange land and his relatives cannot find
1 H. Oldenberg,0Die Religion des India, ii. 114.
Veda (Berlin, 1894), p. 581. 3 R. V. Russell, The Tribes and
2 W. Crooke, The Popular Re- Castes of the Central Provinces of
ligion and Folklore of Northern Indiaf iv. 521.
Ill GHOSTS-* OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 271
his body to perform the usual rites, a ceremony
called nardyana-bali is observed. A figure of the
deceased is made of the reed kans and placed on a
funeral pyre and burned with the dedication that
the deceased may not be without funeral rites.1
In China the custom of burying an effigy-instead
of the corpse when the body cannot be found is
ancient and apparently universal. " During the
reign of the emperor Chan-tuk, in the first century
of the Christian era, it was enacted that if the bodies
of soldiers who fall in battle, or those of sailors who
fall in naval engagements, cannot be recovered, the
spirits of such men shall be called back by prayers
and incantations, and that figures shall be made
either of paper or of wood for their reception, and
be buried with all the ordinary rites. It is recorded
in the annals of China, that the first persons who
conformed to this singular enactment were the sons
of an officer named Lee Hoo, who fell in battle and
whose body could not be recovered. The custom
is now universally observed.” 2 “ In case the corpse
is not brought home to be buried, a letter, or some
of the clothing recently worn by the deceased, or
his shoes, or part of his baggage, is often sent home
instead. The white cock and the mourners go
forth to meet the departed just as they would go to
1 E. T. Atkinson, The Himalayan Journal of ike Asiatic Society of
Districts of the North-Western Pro- Bengal, liv. (1885), p, 14.
vinces of India (Allahabad, 1884), * J, H. Gray, China, i. pp, 295 sq.
ii. 932. For a fuller account of the On this custom, wifh the evidence for
rite, see E. T, Atkinson, “ Notes on its antiquity, see J. J. M. De Groot,
the History of Religion in the Hima- The Religious System of China, vol.
laya of the N.W. Provinces ” , in iii. Book I, pp. 847 sqq.
meet the corpse. ' On meeting the letter or the relic,
the spirit passes as readily into the fowl as it would
pass into it were the corpse itself met, and the spirit
is conducted home just as surely.” 1 Archdeacon
Gray witnessed one of these ceremonies of burial in
effigy, and he has described it as follows. “ On the
occasion of a visit which I paid to Tai-laak, the
capital of the ninety-six villages, I had the oppor­
tunity of seeing so singular a ceremony. An effigy
of the missing man, clad in robes of the most costly
kind, was placed on the ground, and a number of
men and women, dressed in deep mourning, knelt
round it. In the centre of the circle a Taouist priest
invoked the spirit to come to the body prepared for
it, and accompany it to the tomb. Lest the souls
of the deceased should be imprisoned in one of the
ten kingdoms of the Buddhist hades, miniature
representations of the infernal prisons were made by
means of small clay flags or tiles. They reminded
one of dolls’ houses. Prayers in which the kings
of the infernal regions were in turn evoked were
then offered, and at the conclusion of each invocation
the priest with a short magic wand dashed to the
ground one of the miniature prisons. The effigy
was eventually, with the usual observances, put into
a coffin and conveyed to the grave by the sorrowing
relatives.” 2
In Japan it is customary to preserve the navel-
strings of the family in the old home, and should a
272 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
1 Rev. J. Doolittle, Social Life
of the Chinese (London, 1868), 164.
2 J. H. Gray, op. cit. i. 296.
III GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 273
member of the family die in a foreign land, or be
drowned at sea, and his body be not recovered, his
navel-string is buried instead of his corpse.1
Among the Orotchi, a Tartar tribe of Tungussic
origin in north-eastern Asia, if a person has been
drowned and his body has not been found within
two years, it is customary to carve a wooden image
in the likeness of the deceased, and placing it in a
coffin to bury it under a small conical hut.1
2
In Madagascar there are cenotaphs for the re­
ception of the souls of persons whose bodies have
not been found. These cenotaphs generally consist
of a low wall built on three sides of a square. They
are intended to be the last resting-place for the souls
of those who have died in battle, and whose mortal
remains have not been recovered. Their ghosts,
it is thought, are allured to repose in the sacred spots
thus reared for them by the hands of friends, and
thereby find that rest which otherwise they would
have sought in vain, while wandering with the owls
and animals of ill omen in the forests, or paying
unwelcome visits to their former dwellings, and
disturbing their surviving friends.3 On this subject
Alfred Grandidier, our great authority on the ethno­
graphy of Madagascar, tells us that when the
Malagasy cannot recover the body of a deceased
relative, they bury his pillow and mat instead of his
1 L. Hearn, Glimpses of Un- Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society,
familiar Japan (London, 1894), i. xxvi. (1891-1893), pp. 31 sq.
507. 3 Rev. W. Ellis, History of Mada-
2 E. H. Fraser, “ The Fish Skin gascar (London and Paris, N.D.). i.
Tartars ” , in Journal of the China 255 sq.
VO L. I ll T
274 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
corpse, and set up a sepulchral monument to his
memory.1
Among the Tschi-speaking peoples of the Gold
Coast in Africa a ceremony called Toh-jo is per­
formed when a person has died and his body has
been eitfier destroyed or cannot be found, for
example, when a man has been burned to death and
the body reduced to ashes, or when one has been
drowned and the body cannot be recovered. A
miniature coffin is made, covered with white cloth,
and in the case of the drowned man is carried to
the sea-shore. Rum is poured out on the waves, and
the name of the deceased is called out three times,
the mourners crying at the same time in a plaintive
chant, “ We have sought for you but cannot find
you ”. Some sand from the beach is then placed in
the coffin, some sea-water poured into it, and, with
the usual lamentations, the coffin is buried, commonly
on the beach. In the case of a man destroyed by
fire, some of the ashes of the body, or of the house in
which it was consumed, are placed in the coffin, with
similar ceremonies. In this ceremony a fragment of
the corpse is always interred if possible, but, if no
portion of it can be found, some earth, water, or other
substance from the place where the death occurred is
buried in the grave. This custom appears to owe
its origin to the belief that if respect be not shown
to the deceased, by showing him the usual funeral
honours, his ghost will come into the dwellings of
1 A. Grandidier, “ Des rites funeraires chez les Malgaches” , in Revue
d*Ethnographic, v. (1886), p, 214.
the neglectful relatives, cause sickness, and disturb
them by night. Consequently, no body being forth­
coming they perform the funeral rites over a sub­
stitute, taking care, however, to announce to the
spirit of the deceased that they have sought for the
body in vain.1
Among the Ewe-speaking peoples of the Slave
Coast, when a person dies abroad the family try to
obtain something that belonged to him, such as
locks of his hair or parings of his nails, and over
these they perform the funeral ceremonies, for the
general belief is that until these rites have been
carried out the ghost lingers near the remains, and
either cannot or will not depart for Dead-land before
this satisfaction has been accorded him.2 Similarly
among the Yoruba-speaking peoples of the Slave
Coast, when a man dies abroad his family makes the
greatest exertions to obtain something belonging to
him, over which the usual funeral rites may be held.
Locks of hair or parings of the nails are most sought
for this purpose, but if these cannot be obtained a
portion of the clothing worn by the deceased suffices.
Such relics are called eta: they are supposed to
bring back the soul of the deceased to the place
where the funeral ceremonies are being performed.3
Among the Ibo-speaking people of Southern Nigeria
1A ♦ B. Ellis, The Tschi-Speaking * A. B. Ellis, The Yoruba-Speak-
Peoples of the Gold Coast of West ing Peoples ofthe Slave Coastof West
Africa (London, 1887), pp. 222 sq. Africa (London, 1894), p. 163, and
Father Baudin, ALe Fetichisme ou
2 A. B. Ellis, The Ewe-Speaking la religion des Negres de la Gurnee” ,
Peoples of the Slave Coast of West in Les Missions Catkoliques, xvi.
Africa (London, 1890), p. 159. (Lyons, 1884), pp. 258 sq.
in GHOSTS OF THE UNBURIED DEAD 275
if a man dies far away and his body cannot be re­
covered they take a palm-leaf and a chicken and go
tothe “ bad bush.” Holding the palm-leafin the hand,
they kill the chicken, throw it into the “bad bush,”
knock the leaf on the ground, take it on the left arm
and go back, saying, “ Dead man follow me home ”.
If it is a man who has died they put the leaf outside
the yam store, if it is a woman they leave it outside
the door of her house. In the case of a man a goat
and a cock are sacrificed, and blood is put upon the
leaf exactly as it would be upon the dead man's eyes,
the leaf is wrapped in cloth as if for a body; in
the case of a woman the goat's heart is put upon a
spot to represent the chest.1 Concerning these Ibo
people we are told elsewhere by the same authority
that when the body of a deceased person cannot be
found, as for example in the case of a drowned man,
the leaf of a certain palm (omu ojuku) is struck four
times on the bank of the stream where the accident
took place and the dead man’s name is called out
four times. The palm-leaf is then covered with a
cloth and laid on a board, and ceremonies are per­
formed for it as for a corpse.2
The Giagues are a tribe or nation of conquerors
who, coming from the interior of Africa invaded the
kingdoms of Matamba and Congo about two cen­
turies ago. Among them, as we learn from an old
writer, if anyone dreams of a deceased relation, he
fancies that it is the soul of the dead who suffers for
1 N. W. Thomas, “ Some Ibo xlvii. (1917), p. 167.
Burial Customs ” , inJournal of the
Royal Anthropological Institute, 2 N. W. Thomas; op.cit. pp. 184sq.
276 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill ghost’s of the unburied dead 277
lack of food and drink, and therefore appears to
demand help, and reproach his kinsman for his
neglect. So the man has recourse to the Ganga-ga-
Zumbi, the protector or guardian of the dead, or
medicine man, as we may call him. It is chiefly
with the sick that this guardian of the de£d has to
do, for they attribute disease to the anger of the
neglected dead. The most difficult case with which
the protector of the dead has to deal is that of the
ghost of a dead person whose body has not been
buried, because he has been killed and eaten by his
enemies or by wild beasts. In that case the medicine
man spreads nets round the house of the sick man
and even into the forest, in order that the soul of
the dead man may be caught in the net when he
comes to annoy the patient. When a bird, rat,
lizard, ape, or other animal is caught in the net, it
is taken to be the incarnation of the dead man’s soul.
The medicine man takes it to the sick man and says,
“ Rejoice: we’ve got him. He shan’t escape.” But
before he kills the animal he demands a new fee.
When this is agreed to, he kills the animal, to the
sick man’s joy. But to prevent the soul returning
the animal must be ground to powder and swallowed
by the sick man. For this grinding to powder, the
medicine man must be paid again. When the man
has swallowed the powder, digested it, and voided it
in his excrement, then he is rid of the tormenting
spirit finally.1 In this case the tormenting spirit
1 J. B. Labat, Relation historique de V&thiopie Occidentah (Paris, 1732),
ii. 209 sqq.
278 THE FEAR OF THE DEXD ch.
of the unburied dead is not recalled and propitiated,
as in the preceding cases, but is ground to powder
and apparently laid to its last rest in the stomach of
the person whom he had been persecuting.
Among the Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro, if a
man ha#died in a foreign land, and his body has not
been recovered, his friends go to the boundary of
the land where he died, and from there bring back
a skull-shaped stone, over which they perform the
usual mourning ceremonies and raise the customary
lamentations for the dead, just as if it were the corpse
of the deceased.1 Among the Basoga, a Bantu
tribe of Uganda, “ a curious custom still remains
in connexion with a man who dies at some distance
from his home, and whose body therefore cannot be
transported back to be buried in his own house.
The relatives of the deceased will march for two or
three hours into the bush, and come away with a
branch or a long reed. The straight branch or reed
stem is then thrown on the ground, and one of the
relations calls out the dead man’s name and says :
‘We have come to bring you home for burial
After this the reed or stick is covered up with bark-
cloth, and the relations march back to the dead man’s
home carrying with them this substitute for burial.
As they get near the village one of their number
runs on ahead to apprise the neighbours that the dead
1 B. Gutmann, “ Trauer und Be- “ Rechtsverhaltnisse und Sitten der
grabnissitten der Wadschagga ” , in Wadschagga ” , in Petermanns M il-
Globus, lxxxiv. (1906), p. 198; id., teilungen, Erganzungsheft, No. 138
Diehten und Denken der Dschagga- (1902), 18 sq.
Neger, p. 137. Cf. M. Merker,
Ill GHOST'S of the unburied dead 279
man’s body is being brought to his last home. The
women then start wailing for the dead, and continue
screaming and shouting until the long stick wrapped
up in a bundle of bark-cloth is deposited in the grave.
The rest of the ceremony is identical with that which
follows the actual deposit of a corpse in ks grave
under the house.” 1
Among the Bavenda, a Bantu tribe of the
Northern Transvaal, if a man has died far from home
and his body cannot be recovered, if his spirit be­
comes troublesome and requires to be propitiated
by a sacrifice at the grave, his friends proceed to
hold a fictitious burial ceremony. They kill a sheep
and use its head to symbolize the corpse of the
deceased. A grave is dug and the sheep’s head is
buried with due reverence in the usual way, together
with some of the dead man’s clothing or possessions.
This grave is afterwards considered to be that of the
dead man.2 Among the Ovaherero, a Bantu tribe
of South-West Africa, if a man has died far from
home, as in war, and his body has not been brought
back, the people of his village select for him at home
a place at which they erect for him a monument of
stones put together in a peculiar manner, and at
these stones they perform the same ceremonies as
they would have performed at the grave, if the dead
man’s body had been brought back and buried.3
In America the Eskimo about Bering Strait in
1 Sir H. Johnstone, The Uganda 3 Rev. G, VieKe, “ Some Customs
Protectorate, ii. 717 sq. of the Ovaherero ” , in South African
2 H. A. Stayt, The Bavenda (Lon- Folk-lore Journal, i. (Capetown,
don, 1931), p. 163. 1879), p. 57.
280 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Alaska are wont to erect memorial wooden posts,
carved in human shape, for such persons as have
died but have remained unburied because their
bodies have not been found. At Tununuk village,
near Cape Vancouver, Mr. E. W. Nelson saw three
such la'rge wooden posts, representing human
figures, and several subordinate posts. One of
them represented a woman who had been buried in
a landslide, while others of them represented men
who had been drowned at sea. Mr. Nelson was
told “ that among the people of this and the neigh­
bouring villages, as well as of the villages about Big
Lake, in the interior from this point, it is the custom
to erect memorial posts for all people who die in such
a manner that their bodies are not recovered. Each
year for five years a new fur coat or cloth shirt is put
on the figure at the time of invitation to the festival
of the dead, and offerings are made to it as though
the body were in its grave box there. When the
shade comes about the village to attend the festival
of the dead, or at other times, these posts are sup­
posed to afford it a resting-place, and it sees that it
has not been forgotten or left unhonoured by its
relatives.” 1 The Tlingit Indians of Alaska used
to dispose of their dead by burning them, but
towards the close oflast century they were persuaded
by a missionary to adopt the practice of burying
instead of burning. The innovation was followed
by a period of storms and bad weather, which the
1 E. W. Nelson, “ The Eskimo eenth Report ofthe Bureau of Etkno-
about Bering Strait ” , in the Eight- logy (Washington, 1899), i. 317 sq.
Ill G H O S T ’S O F T H E U N B U R IE D D E A D 281
Indians attributed to the wrath of the spirits of their
deceased friends at being deprived of the time-
honoured ceremony of cremation. So on the beach
they kindled great fires, in which they burnt puppets
to represent their dead friends, hoping thus to appease
their angry spirits. As the ceremony was’followed
by no improvement in the weather the Indians, not
without difficulty, discovered the graves of their dead
under the snow, and dug up the bodies, presumably
that their spirits might have the satisfaction of wit­
nessing the cremation of the puppets, and so might
cease to afflict their surviving kinsfolk with a con­
tinuance of bad weather.1
Among the Aht Indians of Vancouver Island we
read of a bereaved father whose son was drowned at
sea and his body not recovered. In default of the
corpse the father took two cedar boards, one of which
bore the roughly traced representation of a man,
while the other supported a small porpoise. These
he carried to a resting-place in the forest, where he
celebrated funeral rites for the peace of his drowned
son’s soul. After it he distributed all his own
property among the mourners present.2
In Ancient Mexico, if a travelling merchant died
on a journey or was killed by his enemies and his
body had not been brought back, his friends at
home used to make an effigy of him of pine-wood,
and dressed it in paper garments, such as were
usually placed on a corpse. This effigy they carried
1 A. Krause, Die Tlinkit-Indianer of Savage Life (London, 1868), p.
(Jena, 1885), p. 231. 263.
2 G. M . Sproat, Scenesand Studies
282 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E'A D CH.
to a temple, where it was left for a whole day, and
mourned by the relatives. At midnight it was
carried out into the courtyard of the temple and there
burned, after which the ashes were buried in the
usual fashion.1
In modern Greece, when a man dies abroad, a
puppet is made in his likeness, and dressed in his
clothes ; it is laid on the bed, and mourning is made
over it.2 Mr. T. H. Bent witnessed at Mykonos
a formal lamentation for an absent dead man, but
where the bier would have stood there was an empty
space.3 A similar custom of mourning over an
effigy is observed in some parts of Calabria.4 In
Albania, when a man dies abroad all the usual
lamentations are made at home as if the body were
present; the funeral procession goes to the church,
but in place of the bier a boy walks carrying a dish
on which a cracknel is placed over some boiled
wheat. This dish is set in the middle of the church,
and the funeral service is held over it; it is not, how­
ever, buried, but the women go and weep at the
grave of the relation who died last.5 Among the
Rumanians of Transylvania, when any one dies
abroad, his clothes are carried to the churchyard of
1 B. de Sahagun, Histoire gine- 2 C. Wachsmuth, Das alte Grie-
rale des choses de la Nouvelle- chenland im neuen (Bonn, 1864),
Espagne (Paris, 1880), p. 264; Abbe p. 113.
Clavigero, The History of Mexico, 8 T. H. Bent, The Cyclades (Lon-
trans. by Cullen, i. 387 ; Abbe Bras- don, 1885), pp. 222 sq.
seur de Bourbourg, Histoire des 4 V. Dorsa, La Tradizione Greco-
nations civilisies * du Mexique latina . . . della Calabria (Cosenza,
(Paris, 1858), iii. 621 sq.; H. H. 1884), p. 93.
Bancroft, Native Races of the Pacific 8 J. G. von Hahn, Albanesische
States of North America, ii. 616. Studien (Jena, 1854), i. 152.
Ill Ghosts of animals 283
his home with all the usual formalities of a regular
burial. A plain wooden cross is set up to hismemory-
in the churchyard, with his name and the place of
his death carved on it.1
V III. Ghosts of Animals
The strictly logical character of primitive thought
has sometimes been doubted or denied, but in one
respect at least primitive man is more consistently
logical than his civilized brother, for he commonly
extends to the lower animals that theory of the sur­
vival of the soul after death which civilized peoples
usually restrict to human beings. Hence primitive
hunters or fishermen stand in awe of the spirits or
ghosts of the animals and fish which they kill and
eat, fearing lest their angry ghosts should seek to
take vengeance on their killers, or by giving warning
to their fellows should prevent them from coming
to be caught and killed in like manner, and so
diminish or cut off entirely a principal source of the
food supply. Accordingly the primitive hunter or
fisherman attempts to propitiate the ghosts of the
animals which he kills by sacrificing to them or
addressing them in complimentary and persuasive
language, and certain precautions are taken to
guard him against their dangerous attacks. In a
work dealing with the fear of the spirits of the human
dead in primitive religion we should not omit to
1 R.Prexl,“ Geburts-und Todten- benburgen” , in Globus, lvii. (1890),
gebrauche bei Rumanen in Sie- p. 30.
notice that parallel fear of the spirits of dead
animals which many primitive peoples are re­
ported to entertain. Elsewhere I have discussed
this curious side of primitive thought at some
length : 1 here I will content myself by illustrating
it with some fresh and typical instances.
Thus, for example, with regard to the Bachama,
a tribe of Northern Nigeria, we are told that “ there
are special hunting and head-hunting rites. In
every village may be seen a large collection of stand­
ing stones surrounded with the heads of the larger
game. When a Bachama kills a lion, leopard,
rhinoceros, buffalo, elephant, hippopotamus, or
wart-hog, the fame of his exploit is soon made
known, and on returning he is saluted on the out­
skirts of the town by everyone who owns a horse.
He is escorted to the hunting shrine, before which
he sits down. The chief or some senior man takes
the tail of the dead animal and, speaking words of
congratulation, touches the arm of the hunter with
the tail. He then smears some flour over the head
and body of the hunter, with the intention, it was
stated, of protecting him from pursuit by the ghost
of the dead animal.” 2 Again with regard to the
Bolewa, Ngamo, Ngizim, and Kare-Kare tribes of
the Bornu Province of Northern Nigeria, we are
told that the leopard seems to be feared by them
more than any other animal. “ To kill a leopard
or even look.on its dead body is to expose oneself
1 The Golden Bough: Spirits of Northern Nigeria (London, 1931),
the Com and of the Wild, ii. 204 sqq. i. 45.
2 C. K. Meek, Tribal Studies in
284 T H E F E A R O F T H E D tfA D c h .
Ill g
’hosts of animals 2 8 s
to the assault of the leopard’s ghost, the first sign
of which is a violent fit of coughing. The afflicted
person is swathed in a white cloth resembling the
shroud used for the dead. A hunter attends with
his company of fiddlers, playing and singing praises
to the leopard : ‘ If your head is shaven thdre is no
blood (i.e. you cannot be scalped by your enemy) ;
behold the cloth is becoming covered with spots ’.
The characteristic spots of the leopard are said to
appear on the cloth, and are immediately plucked
out by the hunter. In this way the man’s life is
saved. But if the spots do not appear he is doomed
to die. No one would eat leopard’s flesh without
first providing himself with some protective medi­
cine.” 1 Among the Yungur-speaking peoples of
Northern Nigeria, after a man has killed a dangerous
animal he is treated with the same rites as were
formerly accorded to a human being. An official
known as Kpana smears the hunter’s shoulders with
mahogany oil to prevent the dead animal’s ghost
from pursuing him.2 The Jen, a small group of
people in Northern Nigeria, believe that the hare
has a powerful pursuing spirit, and for that reason
women and children are not allowed to eat hare’s
flesh. If a hare is killed by a dog, a small boy is
formally charged with the deed, in order to prevent
the dog being killed by the pursuing spirit of the
hare.2
With regard to beliefs and practices of this sort
1 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 274. 3 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 523.
2 C. K. Meek, op. cit. ii. 458.
286 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
among the peoples of Northern Nigeria in general,
a competent authority well acquainted with the
province writes as follows: “ Lions, leopards, and
all the larger wild animals are universally feared by
members of both their own and other clans on
account*of the supposed powerful spiritual influence
which, in the same manner as powerful men, they
are held to possess. This fear is in fact at the basis
ofall hunting and fishing magic, whereby it is sought
to propitiate the souls of animals slain, whether
members of a totem species or not. The practice
of such propitiatory or expiatory rites is as a rule
confined to the larger or more important animals,
such as, among non-totem animals, hyenas, buffaloes,
the larger antelopes and ant-eater. The object is
both to protect the individual from future pursuit
by the vengeful ‘pattern ’ soul (ekiti) of the slain
and to purge him from his existing state of ‘ satura­
tion ' with the spiritual influence or ' matter soul ’
ikofi) of his victim.
“ I was given the following account by a hunter
of the procedure stated to be adopted at the present
day where a Kwotto hunter kills a lion at a place
within the political jurisdiction of the chief of the
lion clan. After slaying the lion, the hunter, before
taking any steps to remove it, reports the matter to
the chief. At the same time he seeks to obtain the
forgiveness ofthe latter, for having slain his kinsman,
by the offer of presents, including a white cock and
beer.
“ The chief, on his part, rewards the successful
Ill G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 2 8 7
hunter for his valour by gifts, usually including a
gown and turban. These, incidentally, are among
the traditional items of apparel with which a senior
chief invests a junior on appointment, so that the
gift may conceivably in origin be connected with
the idea 'of hailing the hunter as ‘ chiefly owing
to his having become impregnated with the royal
spiritual influence of the lion. The chief then
arranges for a bearer party to go and fetch the lion
in order that it may be given ceremonial burial.
The lion is wrapped round with a red winding-
cloth and carried on a bier in procession through
the town into the presence of the chief, to the accom­
paniment of the beating of drums and the joyful
shrill cry (‘ Kururua ’) of women. The people
salute the corpse gravely as it passes, addressing it
as ‘lion ’ and ‘grandfather ’. Later the animal is
flayed, only certain privileged persons of the royal
household, such as the Edibo, Shifornu and Audigwa,
being allowed to touch the corpse; and the skin is
presented to the chief to adorn his couch. It is in
fact a general rule among the Kwottos—not con­
fined to the members of particular clans—that no one
but a chief or his relatives may possess, much less
wear or sit on, the skins of any of the larger wild
beasts, especially those of the lion or leopard.
Similar regulations apply also among all the sur­
rounding tribes with which I am acquainted.
“ The skull of the dead lion is given to the hunter
who killed it, to deposit on the lion-clan chiefs grave,
where he offers up sacrifices and prays before it.
288 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
He beseeches the ghost (
<
ekiti) of the lion not to
harm him for his presumption in killing it, saying :
‘ O Lion, I give you refreshment to-day, lest your
spiritual power (kofi) cause me to die \
“ After burying the lion and before returning to
live in his village, the hunter retires to the 'bush for
two days, where he performs certain further pro­
pitiatory and purificatory rites. These ,include the
eating of a mixture containing atcha-millet, white
beans, rice, seven ears of corn and seven ears of
maize. To this is added palm-wine and the whole
boiled. Were the hunter to neglect to perform
these rites it is believed he would go mad. His
fellow-villagers will at any rate refuse to receive him
into the village until he has purified himself from the
kofi ofthe slain animal, conceived as still attaching to
him. They fear that if they do so their houses, food,
and all their belongings will become contaminated,
and the remaining lions come and avenge their
comrades by ‘eating up ’ the village.” 1
The Ewe peoples of Togoland in West Africa
think that leopards are animated by the souls of
dead men, and therefore ought not to be killed.
Whoever kills a leopard must submit to an elaborate
ceremony of expiation and purification. Some of
the people believe that a leopard is possessed, not
by the spirit of a dead man, but by a son of a God,
which naturally deepens the crime of killing a
leopard. When the news of the killing of a leopard
1Capt. J. R. Wilson-Haffenden, The Red Men of Nigeria (London,
193°), pp. 167 sqq.
Ill G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 289
reaches a village men who have already killed a
leopard go to the spot and bring back the body
and the hunter, carrying both on their backs. On
arriving at the village they are greeted with cries of
joy by the women, and shooting of guns and beating
of gongs-by the men. At the entrance to the,village
the body of the leopard is covered with palm-
branches, because no one may look on it, for they
think that if that rule were not observed a great
drought would follow. Then the leopard and its
killer are carried to the market-place, followed by
the people dancing, singing and drumming. On
their arrival at the market-place priests come for­
ward and cover the body of the leopard with palm-
branches, and pour libations of water mixed with
meal upon the ground, while they express their
sympathy with the dead animal by saying, “ I pity
thee, I pity thee ''. If the priests of the leopard-god
omitted to perform this ceremony, it is believed that
they would die. Afterwards the body of the leopard
and the hunter who killed it are taken up and carried
by bearers on their shoulders all round the town.
Next the leopard's body is carried to a place called
holutime; there, as we are told, every one can con­
vince himself that a son of God has really been killed.
Thither then comes the oldest man or chieftain of
the town, carrying a bush-knife and some palm-wine.
He offers a prayer, and pours a libation of the palm-
wine to the dead god. With a loud lamentation one
of the men present unties the cord which fastened
the palm-branches round the leopard's body. Then
VOL. m u
the leopard’s body is placed on a new mat and
allowed to lie on the spot till next morning. Then
begins the process of skinning and cutting up the
carcase, which may only be done by men who have
themselves killed leopards. They send parts of the
flesh first of all to the oldest people of the town.
While they are cutting up and dividing the flesh they
cry out continually, “ So-and-so [naming the leopard
killer] and his helpers are dead ”. The reason for
this cry is not given by our authority, but we may
conjecture that its intention is to assure the soul of
the dead animal that his death has been avenged by
the death of his slayers.
The leopard’s skin goes to the king or chief of the
town, who may keep or sell it. After this the man
who killed the leopard, and any one who helped him
at the killing, must undergo a ceremony of expiation
and purification for a period of twenty-one days.
A special hut is erected for their accommodation
during this time. So long as he remains in this
hut the killer of the leopard may not speak : he must
behave like a leopard, imitating the voice of the
animal, sleeping on palm-branches, and has his body
painted or smeared with black and white pigments
to imitate the skin of a leopard. From time to time
a roar like that of a leopard is heard to proceed from
the hut, and after that the mock leopard issues forth
to seek his prey. While he is on his raid every one
avoids him, for they think that if they were to meet
him they would die. Since the leopard eats flesh
the mock leopard seeks to imitate the real animal by
290 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
Ill "G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 291
procuring some flesh to devour. For this purpose
he goes about armed with a bow and arrows, and
shoots any dog that may cross his path. The dog's
flesh, when he gets it, may not be laid on a plate,
and the water which he drinks may not be quaffed
from a* vessel, but must be lapped by him from a
stream. Thus he imitates his prototype the leopard,
both in his eating and drinking. By midday he
must return to his hut, because the leopard only
prowls for prey at morning and evening. Any one
who were to eat or drink of the leopard-killer's food
and water would go mad.
The last of the twenty-one days’ seclusion is the
day of the purification of the leopard-killer. From
every side friends flock to him to testify their sym­
pathy and respect, each of them bringing a present
of a piece of cloth and a little money. The cloths
are fastened to each other and used as a garment
with which they clothe the leopard-killer. Women
make strings of cowries with which the body of the
leopard-killer is decked before he is carried to the
place of his purification outside the town. Before
he is carried forth some magical medicine is poured
into his nose, and the same thing is done to several
of the bystanders. After receiving the medicine in
his nose the leopard-killer makes a vibratory or
trembling motion to right and left, but the meaning
of this part of the ceremony was not ascertained
by our authority. Thereupon the -leopard-killer,
stripped of clothing, as he had been during his
seclusion, is taken by bearers on their shoulders and
T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
292
carried in great haste to the place of purification,
followed by a crowd from the town. While the
ceremony of purification is proceeding the people
who remain behind gather in an open space of the
town, where they dance, brandish knives with wild
gesticulations, sing special hunting songs and beat
the hunters’drums. Meantime women have cleaned
the hut in which the leopard-killer dwelt during his
seclusion, throwing away the palm-branches and
the rubbish in the forest. After that the hut itself
is pulled down. At the place of purification the
body of the leopard-killer is washed thoroughly by
certain people. Then they all go back dancing,
singing and beating drums to the place in the town
where the other people are assembled. The pro­
cession is headed by men who have themselves slain
men, or are the parents of twins, or are famous
hunters. The leopard-killer, dressed in a new robe,
has now made his peace with the God whose son
he has killed, and he may now go about among his
fellows as of old.1
Among the Kassounas-Bouras, a tribe of the
French Sudan, if a man has killed a lion, or a
panther, or a buffalo, or an antelope of a special
species, or a hyena, a seer will sometimes tell him
that evil will befall him. On receiving this warning
the killer of the animal will build a miniature house
in front of his hut to lodge the spirit of the animal
he has killed, emd there he sacrifices to the creature’s
1 C. Spiess, “ Beitrage zur Kennt* formen in Sud-Togo ” , in Baessler
niss der Religion und der Kultus- Archiv, ii. (1912) pp. 70 sqq.
Ill ’ G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 293
soul. Another creature, the killing of which re­
quires to be expiated by a sacrifice, is a species of
bird called by the natives kouma or koumvava. It
is perhaps the crested crane. If a man has killed a
bird of this sort he makes a miniature house for it,
and there offers sacrifice to the bird’s ghost. The
plumage of birds of this sort is used to decorate gar­
ments of chiefs and wealthy people. Again, if a man
kills a red ape or a boar he will build a miniature
house for the animal’s soul, and there offer sacrifice
to it, should the seer direct him to do so.1
Again, among the Gouros, a tribe inhabiting the
interior of the Ivory Coast, if a man has killed a deer
of a special species he hastens to take the animal’s
skull, on which he offers a sacrifice to the animal’s
vengeful ghost in order that it may not pursue him,
and he resorts to a similar mode of appeasing the
vengeful ghost of an elephant or a leopard which he
has killed. Even if he does not consider himself to
be related to these animals through his clan, he still
sacrifices to them, lest their ghosts should haunt him
in his sleep.2 The Gouros who inhabit the northern
part of the Ivory Coast similarly fear the vengeful
ghosts of certain animals which they kill. Hunters
who are in the habit of killing such animals obtain
from old people charms to protect them from these
dangerous ghosts. They particularly dread the
ghosts of a certain species of deer or antelope,
and if they have killed one of them they take the
1 L. Tauxier, Le Noir de Soudan
(Paris, 1912), p. 327.
2 L. Tauxier, Negres Gouro et
Gagou (Paris, 1924), p. 204.
294 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
animal’s skull and on it offer a little sacrifice to the
ghost.1
The Lango, a Nilotic tribe of Uganda, believe
that some species of animals, but not all, possess
a shade or soul (tipo), which survives the death of
its body .and may prove dangerous to its Slayer.
Animals which are credited with the possession of
such a soul are the wart-hog, rhinoceros, elephant,
roan, giraffe and bushbuck. Some animals, in­
cluding, curiously enough, the lion and the leopard,
are not supposed to possess such dangerous souls.
The ghost of the roan is thought to be particularly
vengeful and vicious. When a man has killed an
animal of that species he must at once return to his
village and consult a seer, according to whose advice
an offering is made and special rites are observed
to pacify the ghost of the animal. The ceremonies
vary according to the directions of the seer, but in
all cases a black ram must be sacrificed at the door
of the slayer’s house. The carcase is dragged whole
into the bush and left near a river, but the old men
of the village may go and eat it there, after which
they burn the skin and bones and throw the ashes
into the water. Having thus appeased the animal’s
ghost, the slayer may return and cut up the animal’s
body, but the horns of the roan may not be brought
into the village, on account of the peculiarly vicious
and dangerous character of that animal’s ghost.
For a similar reason it was formerly forbidden to
bring into the village the horns of a slain rhinoceros.
1 L. Tauxier, op. cit. p. 255,
Ill G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 295
A like ceremony of expiation has to be performed
for the killing of any one of those species of animals
which are supposed to possess a vengeful shade or
spirit.1
Among the Wajagga of Mount Kilimanjaro, boys
amuse themselves by shooting birds with a bow and
arrows. For every bird that he kills the boy makes
a notch in the wood of his bow. When a boy has
shot a hundred or a hundred and fifty birds he sacri­
fices a goat to expiate the bow and himself, and
thereafter shoots at no bird, lest he should expose
himself to the vengeance of the dead bird’s ghost.2
Among the Wandamba of Tanganyika, when the
hunters have killed an elephant, the chief medicine­
man, or in his absence the first man who drew the
animal’s blood, cuts off the tail and the tip of the
trunk, burying the latter as ugly and unfit to be
seen by women. Then he mounts the carcase and
dances, singing, “He is dead, the rumbling one, he
is stone dead ”. After that the others climb up and
dance on the carcase, but a man who has not previ­
ously assisted at the killing of an elephant may not
do so until he has been invited by the chief medicine­
man, who first binds a couple of hairs from the
animal’s tail round the man’s neck and washes him.
This necklace of hair the man wears until the morn­
ing after the return home, when it is handed back
to the head medicine-man, and put by him in his bag.
If these precautions were not observed the man
1 J. H. Driberg, The Lango (Lon- 2 B. Gutmann, Dichten und Den-
don, 1923), pp. 229 sq. ken der Dschagganeger, p. 106.
would be haunted by the spirit of the dead elephant
and would be subject to fits of madness in which he
would suffer from the illusion that the beast was
pursuing him.1 The Nanzela, a people of Northern
Rhodesia, observe a similar ceremony at the killing
of an elephant for the purpose of appeasing the
animal’s ghost. The ceremony has been described
as follows, by Messrs. Smith and Dale. “ We have
never had the opportunity of watching the cutting-
up of an elephant, but, sitting once in company with
some old Nanzela hunters, we asked and obtained
the following description of the process. The
motive underlying the rites is to prevent the ghost
of the deceased elephant from taking vengeance
upon the hunters, and to induce it to assist them in
bringing the same fate upon other elephants. When
the elephant is dead the hunter runs offand is chased
in mock resentment by his companions. Then he
comes back and climbs upon the carcase, his com­
panions surrounding the elephant and clapping
their hands in greeting and congratulation. They
then proceed to cut up the carcase. A beginning
is made by cutting out the fat in the hollows of the
temples : from its quantity and quality they judge
the condition of the animal. They then open the
abdomen and remove the intestines. The linings
of the cavity are carefully separated and spread out
to dry; they are called ingubo (‘ blankets ’), and
are intended for presentation to the bodi, the ladies
1 A. G. O. Hodgson, “ Some Royal Anthropological Institute, lvi.
Notes on the Hunting Customs of (1926) p. 63.
the Wandamba ” , in Journal of the
296 T H E F E A R O F T H E DEfAD CH.
of the community. They then cut through the
diaphragm : through the opening the hunter puts
his head, seizes the heart in his mouth, and drags it
out. He does not eat it, but the biting is to give him
strength in future hunting. Having removed the
contents of the thorax, they attack the head There
is some special significance attached to the nerve of
the tusk, called kamwale (‘the maiden ’). It is
carefully abstracted and buried under the site of
the camp-fire. It is not to be looked upon by the
tiros in hunting—they are called bana (‘children ’);
all the time it is being handled they must turn away
their heads, for were they to see it they would meet
with misfortune. Having now completed their work
they return to the village, beating their axes together
and singing. The people on hearing the noise flock
to meet them, and a great feast, with plenty of beer,
is made. But first an offering is made to Leza (‘ the
Supreme Being ’), to the mizhimo (‘ the ancestral
spirits ’) and to the ghost (;muzhimo) of the deceased
elephant which has accompanied them to the village.
Addressing this last they say : ‘ O spirit, have you
no brothers and fathers who will come to be killed ?
Go and fetch them.5 The ghost of the elephant then
returns and joins the herd as the guardian of the
elephant who has ‘ eaten its name 5. Observe that
they regard the elephants as acting as men act : one
dies and another inherits his position, ‘ eats his
name 5
, as they say. Before a man can be admitted
into the brotherhood of elephant hunters he must
undergo a process of being doctored. Gashes are
III 'G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 297
cut in his right arm and ‘ medicine ’ is rubbed in to
give him pluck; and other ‘medicines ’ are adminis­
tered to enable him to approach his quarry without
being seen.” 1 With reference to the Ila-speaking
peoples generally of Northern Rhodesia the same
writers have described for us the parallel ce'remony
observed by them at the killing of an eland for the
purpose of disarming the vengeful ghost of the
animal. They say : “ We have described the cere­
monies following the death of an elephant. When
a man kills an eland he must also go through certain
rites to avert the retaliating power in the animal.
After killing an eland the hunter chews leaves of the
Mukono or Munto bush, together with a piece of
kaumbuswa (ant-heap), holding, meanwhile, a lump
of the latter under his foot. Some of the chewed
leaves he rubs on his forehead and some on the
eland’s forehead. Having done this he throws at
the eland’s head the piece of ant-heap that was under
his foot. He also cuts and splits a stick and jumps
through the cleft, as the killer of a man does. He
then goes off to the village to get people to help him
in carrying home the meat. On their arrival at the
eland he sits apart while they open the carcase. He
must not join them at first, but once it is opened he
may help them to skin and cut up the animal. Were
these rites omitted, the eland would trouble him—
would come at night and horn him, or in any case
cause his death. But the power in the eland can be
1Rev. E. W. Smith and Capt. ofNorthern Rhodesia (London, 1920),
A. M. Dale, The Ila-speaking Peoples i. 167 sq.
298 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D CH.
Ill G H O S T S O F A N IM A L S 299
put to use. Medicine put into its horn derives
therefrom a more potent efficacy.” 1
Among the Gonds and Korkus in the Central
Provinces of India, when a tiger has been killed
the hunters singe off the animal’s whiskers, because
they thihk that this will prevent the tigeris ghost
from haunting them. They often object to touch
a man who has been injured or mauled by a tiger,
as they bhlieve that to do so would bring down the
vengeance of the tiger’s ghost upon them. And in
some places any Gond or Korku who touches a man
mauled by a tiger is put temporarily out of caste
and has to be purified and give a feast on being
readmitted to the caste.1
2 Among the Lushais, a
tribe of North-Eastern India, when a man has killed
either an enemy or an animal, it is necessary for
him to perform a certain ceremony called “A i” for
the purpose of giving him power to control the spirit
or ghost of the man or animal. The ceremony con­
sists in the sacrifice of a mithan, goat or pig. After
this, before the skull can be placed in the front
verandah, a religious ceremony must be performed
by a priest or medicine-man. A small white fowl
is given to him, and the skull of the animal is placed
in front of him. He then takes some rice-beer (zu)
in his mouth and spits it out over the skull, and,
after muttering a charm in so low a tone that no one
can hear him, he strikes the skull with the head of
the chicken. If some of the feathers stick on the
+
1 Smith and Dale, op. cit. ii. 88. of the Central Provinces of India,
2 R. V. Russell, Tribes and Castes iii. 564.
300 THE FEAR OF THE DfeAD CH.
skull it is very lucky. After this the skull can be
put up. The reason for the performance of this
ceremony (A i) is that if it be omitted the soul of the
slain animal or man cannot pass to the spirit land,
to be there under the mastery of the slayer ; in other
words,the aim of the ceremony is to give the slayer
full power over his victim’s ghost in the world beyond
the grave. No such ceremony has to be performed
for tame animals when they are killed, presumably
because they are already under the control of their
killer. Thus we see that the Lushais treat the souls
of killed men and killed animals on exactly parallel
lines : they do not substantially distinguish between
them. The following is a translation of a native
account of the ceremony observed by the Lushai
after the killing of a tiger. “ When Bengkhawia’s
village was at Thenzawl, a tiger beset the village and
in one day killed a mithan and two goats. The
crier called on the people to surround the village, and
they did so. Thangbawnga shot it, and performed
the Ai ceremony ; the night before he must not
sleep. A young man cut off its tail; he also must
keep awake all night. The next day he performed
the Ai ceremony, sacrificing a mithan. Thang­
bawnga, who was performing the Ai, dressed him­
self up as a woman, smoked a woman’s pipe, wore
a woman’s petticoat and cloth, carried a small
basket, spun a cotton spindle, wore ivory earrings,
let his hair.down and wrapped a mottled cloth,
which was said to be of an ancient pattern, round
his head as a turban. A crowd watched him and
Ill GHOSTS OF ANIMALS 301
yelled with laughter, but itwould have been ‘thianglo'
(unlucky) for him to laugh. Presently he took off
his turban and carried it in the basket. Then he
took off his woman’s disguise and dressed himself
as a man, and strapped on a fighting dah (knife or
dagger)and carried agun. He also took‘sailijngvar ’
(white flints) and put them into the tiger’s mouth,
while he ate eggs. ‘You eat the sailungvar ’, he
said ; ‘ who will swallow them the quicker ? I have
out-swallowed you, you have not swallowed yours;
I have swallowed mine. You will go by the lower
road; I will go by the upper. You will be like
the lower southern hills; I shall be like the high
northern ones. You are the brave man ofthe south ;
I am the brave man of the north ’, he said, and cut
the tiger’s head three times with his dah. Then the
men buried the body of the tiger outside the village.”
If the tiger has killed men, his eyes are gouged out
with skewers or needles and thrown away, probably
in order to blind the animal’s ghost: it is unlucky
(thianglo) for the performer to laugh, so he holds
a porcupine in his arms, and if he laughs by accident
they say the porcupine laughed. The idea of the
performer disguising himself as a woman is that the
spirit of the dead tiger may be humbled, thinking
that it has been shot by a woman; and the giving of
the flints while the performer eats eggs is to show the
power of the performer over the tiger, as he eats the
eggs easily, while the tiger is unableto chewthe flints.1
1 Lt.-Col. J. Shakespear, The Lushei Kuki Clans (London, 1912), pp.
78 sqq.
Among the Lakhers, another tribe of North-
Eastern India, when a hunter has killed any of the
larger animals, on his return home he performs a
sacrifice called Salupakia, the object of which is to
give him power in the next world over the spirit
of the ^animal he has killed, to please the dead
animal's soul, and so also to help him to kill many
more animals in future. Either a fowl or a pig may
be sacrificed. If a fowl is used, the sacrifice is per­
formed as soon as the hunter returns home ; if a pig,
the sacrifice is postponed till the next morning.
When a fowl is killed, the women may not eat any
part of it, but if the sacrifice is a pig, women may
eat any part of it except the head, which may be
eaten only by men. The sacrifice is performed
inside the house near a rice-beer (sahma) pot, close
to which is placed the head of the wild animal for
which the sacrifice is being performed. Before per­
forming the sacrifice the hunter sucks a little rice-beer
out of each rice-beer pot and spits it out into a gourd.
He rubs flour all over the animal's head, takes into
his mouth again the rice-beer he has spat into the
gourd, and blows it over the animal’s head six times.
The hunter next intones a hunting-song, and kills
the fowl or pig as the case may be. If a fowl is
sacrificed, its tongue is pulled out and placed on the
animal’s head, and some feathers are placed in the
nostrils. If the victim is a pig, the animal’s head
is anointed ,with the blood, and after the pig has
been cooked and eaten its head is placed on the head
of the slain animal. The animal’s head is then hung
302 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD ch.
Ill GHOSTS OF ANIMALS 303
up in the .verandah, and all the old heads already
hanging up there are anointed with flour and beer
to make them look beautiful and as though they
had been freshly shot. This attention is thought
to be pleasing to the souls of the dead animals, who
will praise the sacrificer to living animal^ and so
induce them to approach him next time he goes out
hunting. For the day and night of the sacrifice the
sacrifice]* and his family are taboo {pana), and the
women of the house may not weave. That night
it is forbidden {ana) for the sacrificer to sleep with
his wife or any other woman ; he must sleep on the
place where the sacrifice was made. The Lakhers
believe that on the night of this sacrifice the spirit
of the animal shot comes and watches the man who
has killed it, and if it saw him sleeping with his wife,
would say, “Ah, this man prefers women to m e”,
and would go and inform all the other animals that
the man who had shot him was unworthy to be
allowed to shoot any more animals, as he was fonder
of women than of the chase. A man who broke the
prohibition on sexual intercourse on the night of the
ceremony would therefore be unable to kill any more
animals. The next morning the sacrificer takes his
gun and goes outside the village and shoots a bird ;
if he cannot shoot a bird he must in any case fire his
gun off. Having done this, he returns to the village,
the taboo {pana) ends, and he may have intercourse
with women again. If he has shot a bird it means
that the sacrifice has taken effect and that the sacri­
ficer will soon shoot more game.
If a man has wounded an animal and returned
home without bagging it and intends to follow it up
next day, he must sleep alone that night. It is for­
bidden (ana) for a man in these circumstances to
sleep either with his wife or with any other woman,
as it is believed that in that case the wounded^animal
*
would escape him. Hunters must remain chaste in
these circumstances.1
Lakhers have a superstitious fear of tigers, as
tigers are believed to have a saw, that is, a power of
causing sickness or misfortune. Leopards also are
believed to possess a similar power for mischief (saw),
and the ceremony performed over a dead tiger or
leopard is intended mainly to render the saw harm­
less. So when a tiger has been shot a special cere­
mony called Chakei la has to be performed. This
ceremony is similar in some respects to that per­
formed over the head of an enemy slain in war. If
any one shoots a tiger and leaves it in the jungle no
sacrifice is necessary, but if he brings the head into
the village he must perform the la ceremony, because
the dead tiger is saw—that is to say, has the capacity
of causing sickness and harm to any one touching
it, and the la ceremony both makes the tiger’s
powerful mischief (saw) innocuous, and enables the
hunter to retain the tiger for his own use in the next
world. Most Lakhers dislike tigers, because they
fear the saw and are not at all keen on shooting
them, and if a man who has shot a tiger says he is
going to perform the la ceremony, and asks his
1 N. E. Parry, The Lakhers (London, 1932), pp. 139 sq.
304 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill 'ghosts of animals 305
friends to- come and help him skin the carcase, and
then fails to perform the ceremony, he must give
each of the skinners a dog and a fowl to sacrifice, to
save themselves from the evil effects of the saw.
The dog and fowl are killed and then thrown away
outside the village, and none of their meat*is eaten.
They believe that the saw is thrown out of the village
in the same way as the bodies of the dogs and the
fowls. *Not only the skinners, but any one touching
the skin of a dead tiger over which the ceremony {Id)
has not been performed must offer this sacrifice.
After the tiger has been skinned, the head is brought
up and kept outside the village. Two pigs must be
killed for the ceremony {Id). In the morning a pig
is killed outside the village. The meat of this pig
may be eaten only by men. After this pig has been
sacrificed, the tiger’s head is brought into the village
and put down in front of the house of the man who
shot it. A tiger’s head, like a man’s, is never taken
inside a house. The second pig is killed near the
tiger’s head and the la ceremony is performed. The
man who shot the tiger dresses up in woman’s
clothes, lets down his hair like a woman, and smokes
a woman’s pipe. He carries a spindle and thread
in his hand, and while winding the thread dances
round the tiger’s head, finally running the spindle
through the tiger’s nostrils. One of the assistants
then picks up the tiger’s head and runs through the
village with it, pursued by the man. who shot it,
jabbing at the tiger’s nostrils with the spindle. The
head is thrown away outside the village. Tigers’
VOL. Ill x
heads are never hung up in the verandah-like other
trophies. In Chapi and Savang tigers1 heads are
hung outside the village in the same way as human
heads, and the head of the animal sacrificed as la
is hung up near by. During the ceremony it is
forbidden (ana) to laugh. The origin of this cere­
mony is said to be that once upon a time a woman
went to the land cleared for cultivation (jhums), and
a tiger came to eat her. The tiger knocked her
down, but as he did so the spindle she was carrying
entered his nostrils and killed him, and so the
woman escaped. Ever since then it has been cus­
tomary for the killer of a tiger to wear woman’s
clothes when he performs the ceremony of expiation
(la). During the ceremony the dead tiger’s brother
is said to watch the proceedings from a high hill, and
when he sees, as he thinks, a woman dancing round
the tiger, he does not get angry, because he imagines
it is only a woman who has killed his brother, and
if his brother was fool enough to get killed by a
woman he had only himself to blame. So, as it is
not worth while punishing a woman, he goes away
without taking any revenge.1 The quaint ceremony
just described has for its object to lay the ghost of
the tiger that has been killed. During the night
which follows it the women may neither spin nor
weave for fear of the tiger’s ghost.2
Again, among these same Lakhers, when any one
kills a mithan or bullock, the village is taboo (pand)
on the day the animal is killed. No work may be
1 Parry, op. cit. pp. 141 sqq. 2 Parry, op. cit. pp. 375 sq.
306 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD c h .
Ill •GHOSTS OF ANIMALS 3t>7
done in the fields, and the women may not weave.
The same taboo is observed if a mithan is killed by
a tiger and the villagers bring the meat into the
village to eat. If the meat is not brought in, there
is no taboo. It is believed that if this taboo is not
observed the houses will be blown down bv a hurri-
cane, and that the rice will be blown down or will
dry up. Mithan and cows are the largest and most
valuable animals kept by men, and have the loudest
voice, and when they breathe their breath is like the
wind ; hence, when one of these animals is killed,
the wind will punish the village where it has been
killed unless a taboo (fiand) is held to appease the
mithan’s soul and prevent it from calling the wind.1
The Moi's, a primitive people inhabiting the
mountains of Indo-China, stand in great fear of
tigers which infest the surrounding jungle and carry
off many victims. But if they stand in fear of the
living tiger, they stand in much greater fear of the
tiger’s ghost, as will appear from the following
account of an incident witnessed by a French official.
We read: “ Of course it is very unusual to meet this
ferocious creature by daylight, even in regions where
its ravages are the most frequent. Every traveller
will pass by its lair in the bamboo groves, but it is
quite exceptional to see the beast itself, except at
night-fall, when it comes forth to seek its prey. Once
a tiger has tasted human flesh it prefers it to all other
food. Accordingly, the natives live in a state of
chronic fear of the man-eater, and ‘will willingly
1 Parry, op. cit. pp. 451.
X 2
VO L. I ll
abandon their villages rather than make, the least
effort to rid themselves of the pest. As I shall show
later, they endow their enemy with human qualities
and frequently refuse to destroy it when at their
mercy for fear of arousing the vengeance of the
whole sgecies. One of our party once witnessed
the following scene. A tiger had fallen into a pit
which had been laid for some deer. It was not
wounded, but the space was so cramped that it was
quite unable to move. The natives were terrified
lest it should die, in which case its spirit would never
cease to molest them ; so they decided to set it free.
They made a cage without a floor, lowered it into
the pit, and then raised it up again by means of
ropes passed under the creature. Perched on the
neighbouring trees they pulled away the prison and
let the captive go, offering their humble apologies
for having already detained it so long. Our repre­
sentative had been compelled to promise his ac­
quiescence, and, lest he should repent and show fight,
his rifle was carefully left behind in the village.” 1
Thus these primitive people, far from wishing to
kill the trapped tiger, took great pains to save its
life, because they feared the dead tiger’s ghost much
more than the living animal. A stronger proof they
could hardly have given of their belief in the reality
and the danger of a tiger’s ghost.
Far from the tiger-infested jungles of Indo-China
our next and last scene opens on the ice and snow
308 . THE FEAR OF THE DEA'D c h .
1 Commandant Baudesson, Au pp. 25 sq.; idIndo-China and its
Pays m
des superstitions et des rites} Primitive People, pp. 41 sq.
Ill GHOSTS OF ANIMALS 309
of the Arctic north. The Eskimo are at great pains
not to offend the ghosts of the animals which they
kill and eat. On this subject Mr. Stefansson, who
lived among the Eskimo, tells us as follows : “ I
learned also why it is that animals allow themselves
to be killed by men. The animals are much wiser
than men, and know everything in the world—in­
cluding the thoughts of men ; but there are certain
things *which the animals need, and which they
can only get from men. The seals and whales live
in the salt water, and are therefore continually
thirsty. They have no means of getting fresh
water, except to come to men for it. A seal will
therefore allow himself to be killed by a hunter who
will give him a drink of water in return ; that is why
a dipperful of water is always poured into the mouth
of a seal when he is brought ashore. If a hunter
neglects to do this, all the other seals know about it,
and no other seal will ever allow himself to be killed
by that hunter, because he knows he is not going
to get a drink. Every man who gives a seal a drink
of water, and keeps this implied promise, is known
by the other seals as a dependable person, and they
will prefer to be killed by him. There are other
things which a seal would like to have done for it
when it is dead, and some men are so careful to do
everything that seals want that seals tumble over
themselves in their eagerness to be killed by that
particular man. The polar bear does not suffer
from thirst as much as the seal, for he can eat the
fresh snow on the top of the ice. But polar bears
are unable to make for themselves certain tools
which they need. What the male bears especially
value are crooked knives and bow-drills, and the
female bears are especially eager to get ^omen’s
knives, skin-scrapers, and needle cases; conse­
quently when a polar bear has been killed hfs soul
(tatkok) accompanies the skin into the man’s house
and stays with the skin several days (among most
tribes, for four days if it is a male bear, and Tor five
days if it is a female). The skin during this time
is hung up at the rear end of the house, and with the
skin are hung up the tools which the bear desires,
according to the sex of the animal killed. At the
end of the fourth or fifth day the soul of the bear is
by a magic formula driven out of the house ; and
when it goes away it takes away with it the souls of
the tools which have been suspended with it and
uses them thereafter. There are certain manners
and customs of humanity which are displeasing to
polar bears, and for that reason those customs are
carefully abjured during the period when the soul
of the bear is in the man’s house. The bear, in
other words, is treated as an honoured guest who
must not be offended. If the bear’s soul had been
properly treated during his stay with the man, and
if he has received the souls (tatkoit) of implements
of good quality, then he will report those things in
the land of polar bears to which he returns, and other
bears will be anxious to be killed by so reliable a
man. If the wives of certain hunters are careless
about treating the souls of the bears properly while
310 . THE FEAR OF THE DEAD CH.
Ill GHOSTS OF ANIMALS 3 i i
they are*in their houses, this will offend the bears
quite as much as if the man who had killed them had
done it, and this may cause an excellent hunter to
get no bears at all. Certain women are known in
their communities for this very undesirable quality,
and if a ‘woman becomes a widow, her seputation
for carelessness in treating the souls of animals may
prevent her from getting a good second husband.” 1
Our survey of the facts, imperfect as it neces­
sarily is, must here end; but enough perhaps has
been said to convince us that fear of the spirits of
the dead, whether men or animals, has haunted the
mind of primitive man from time immemorial all
over the world, from the Equator to the Poles, and
we may surmise that the same fear has gone far to
shape the moulds into which religious thought has
run ever since feeble man began to meditate on the
great mysteries by which our little life on earth is
encompassed.
1 V. Stefansson, My Life with the Eskimo (London, 1913), pp. 56 sgq.
IN D E X
Abbott, J., cited, 244
Achinese of Sumatra, block openings
in head of corpse, 36; treatment
of woman dying in childbed, 191
Adair, James, cited, 136
Aht Indians, funeral rites in absence
of body, 281
Ainus of Japan, custom of destroying
a house after death, 7
Akamba of Kenya, marriage after
death, 240
A-Koa of West Africa bury dead
man in stream, 24
Alaric the Goth buried in bed of
stream, 28
Albania, mourning rites in absence
of body, 282
Aleutian Islanders mask the faces of
their dead, 35
Alfoors of Celebes sacrifice to their
unburied dead, 265
Algonquin Indians burn stinking
substances to repel ghosts, 22
Amazulu of South Africa fear ghost
of dead husband, 224
Anabali of Orinoco abandon their
crops at a death, 18
Andaman Islanders, desert a camp
after a death, 6 ; do not name the
dead during mourning, 44 ; fear
the spirits of those they kill, 114
Andrawilla tribe of Australia do not
name the dead, 43
Angoni of Central Africa, women
shave their heads in sorrow, 56
----- of Nyassaland remove corpse
from house by special opening, 93
Angoni of Zambesi fear the ghosts
of the slain, 131
Annam, corpses removed by special
opening, 82; mourning over relics
of unburied dead, 266
Antimerina of Madagascar remove
dead king by breach made in wall,
89
Apache-Yumas, an Indian tribe,
burn a hut in which one has died*
1
7
Arosi (Solomon Islands), method of
misleading ghost, 62
Arunta of Australia, fear the ghosts
of the slain, 104; lacerate them­
selves in mourning, 58
Ashanti of Africa remove dead by
special opening, 90
Asisi or spirit of slain man driven
away by Orokaiva of British New
Guinea, n o
Assam, houses pulled down in which
death has taken place, 9
Astrakhan and Caucasus, nurses of
dead prince put in hole in ground,
48
Atlas Mountains tribes desert the
house of a dead cadi, 15
Atnirinja or ghost of a dead person
in Australia, 235
Atonga of Nyassaland remove dead
from hut by special opening, 93
Atua or avenging spirit feared by the
Maori, io6#
Australian natives, bandage the eyes
of the dead, 32; carry a dead body
in circles, 74; do not pronounce
313
3 H THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
the name of the dead, 43 ; fear the
ghost of a dead husband, 235 ;
remain silent after a death, 39 ;
their method of disposing of a
corpse, 64
Awemba of Rhodesia observe special
rites after slaying, 132
Bachama of Nigeria fear ghost of
slain animal, 284
Baganda of Central Africa, cere*
mony at remarriage of a widow,
220; fear ghosts of suicides,
146
Bagesu of Kenya, murderer appeases
ghost of his victim, 127
Baholoholo of Belgian Congo burn
the huts of a dead man, 13
Baigas of Central Provinces, fear the
spirits of the unmarried dead, 242 ;
fear the spirit of a man killed by a
tiger, 161
Bakitara of Uganda fear ghost of
murdered prince, 128
Bakongo of Congo regard name of
dead as taboo, 46
Bakunta of Uganda fear ghost of
slain king, 128
Bali, Indonesia, body of dead queen
removed by special aperture, 86;
image of unburied dead, 266
Bambara of Upper Niger remove
outcasts after death by special
opening, 91
Bana of Cameroons tie up eyes of a
corpse, 32
Banks Islanders bury banana trunk
with body of dead mother, 60
Bannavs of Indo-China, their treat­
ment of suicides, 156
Bantu tribes, burn the hut in which
the dead have lived, 14; remove
corpse by special opening, 93
Banyankole of Uganda, fear ghost
of slain enemy, 127 ; never men­
tion dead person’s name, 46; re­
move to another site on completing
mourning for the dead, 10
Barai of Central Provinces offer
sacrifices when man marries a
widow, 207
Barbar Archipelago, natives of, cut
lock of hair when a corpse passes,
55
Bari tribe of Nilotic Sudan plug
orifices in dead body, 36
Barotse of South Africa abandon hut
of a deceased person, ^3, 14
Barundi of Tanganyika, shift the
entrance of a hut where death has
occurred, 79; never pronounce
dead man’s name, 46
Basoga of Uganda, burial rites in
absence of body, 278; desert the
hut of a deceased person, 10;
make atonement to the ghost of a
murdered person, 127
Basutos of South Africa fear the
ghosts of their victims, 134
Batak of Sumatra, block openings in
head of corpse, 36 ; carry a corpse
backwards and forwards, 74
Bateso of Uganda desert a house in
which some one has died, 10
Bavenda of Africa, propitiate ghost
of unburied dead, 279 ; treatment
of unmarried dead, 237
Ba-Yaka of Congo fear spirit of
slain man, 130
Bechuanas of South Africa, do not
mention name of dead man, 47 ;
remove corpse by special opening,
94
Bella Coola Indians, mourning
customs, 230; widows observe
silence, 41
Benuas of Malacca desert and burn
a house where a death has taken
place, 6
Bhamta of Central Provinces, cere­
mony when widower remarries,
207
Bhandari of Bombay Presidency,
ceremony at remarriage of widow,
212
Bhatra of Central Provinces fear
spirit of a man killed by a tiger,
162
Bhats of Central Provinces fear ghost
of unmarried boy, 242
Bhils of India, ceremony at re­
marriage of widower, 210
INDEX 315
Bimbians of the Niger abandon the
house of a cfead chief, 12
Birhors of India, do not shave after
a death, 56 ; fear ghosts of women
dying in childbed, 181 ; take out
women dying in childbed by new
doorway, 87
Boloki of Upper Congo fear spirit of
murdered man, 130
Bombay, ceremony at remarriage of
a widower, 211 ; fear of dead
husband’s ghost, 210; fear of
women dying in childbed, 177
Bornu, Nigeria, fear of slain leopard,
284
Brahuis of Baluchistan remove
corpse by hole in wall, 89
British New Guinea, natives desert
house in which death occurred, 4
Bubis of Fernando Po remove corpse
of eminent man by special opening,
92
Buginese of Celebes take out dead
king by special window, 85, 86
Buin (Solomon Islands), names of
dead not pronounced, 43
Bukana of New Guinea fear angry
spirits of the slain, 111
Bulgaria, coins placed on eyes of
corpse, 34 ; treatment of suicides,
158
Burma, funeral procession, 74
Bum (East Indies), natives desert
dwelling where death occurred, 5
Bushmen of South Africa, break
down and burn the hut of a dead
man, 15; never mention the name
of a dead person, 47; remove a
corpse by a special opening, 94
Calabria, dead mourned in effigy in,
282
Calchaquis of Brazil bum the hut of
a dead man, 20
Cambodia, faces of dead kings
masked in, 35 ; fear of spirits of
those dying violently in, 172 ; fear
of spirits of women dying in child­
bed in, 189; mouth, nose and eyes
of corpse covered in, 32
Cameron, Commander, cited, 26
Castelnau, French traveller, cited, 20
Catios Indians of Columbia do not
remove corpses by usual house-
ladder, 99
Chams of Indo-China perform evolu­
tions to prevent the return of ghost,
73
Charans of Central Provinces prac­
tise suicide as form of revenge, 149
Cheremiss of Russia remove corpse
by breach in wall, 100
Chewsurs of Caucasus do not shave
in mourning, 57
China, burial in effigy in, 271-2;
dread of ghosts of suicides in, 153-
156 ; marriage of the dead in, 248-
257
Chinese, allow hair to grow in moum-
ing, 56; by ancient custom knock
down part of a wall to remove
corpse, 83
Chiriguano Indians bury some
corpses head downwards, 29
Chiwai of Northern Nigeria fear pur­
suit by slain victim’s ghost, 122
Chukchee of Siberia draw corpse out
by hole in the roof, 84
Churel or ghost of woman dying in
childbed, 176 sq.
Chuwash, on the Volga, stop the
nose, ears and mouth of a corpse,
37
Comanche Indians, mourning cus­
toms, 55
Congo natives fear the ghost of dead
husband,222
Conibos of South America bum the
house of a dead man, 20
Corea, people of, tie blinders on
corpse, 32
Coroados of Brazil abandon the
dwelling of a dead man, 21
Corpse, blindfolded to blind ghost,
32 sqq.; carried out by special
opening, 80 sqq,
Corsicans in mourning let their
beards grow, 57
Cree Indians ipove camp when a
death takes place, 17
Creek Indians fear ghosts of slain
foes, 136
3*6 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Daniel, bones of prophet, said to be
buried in bed of stream, 28
Dead buried in course of stream,
23 sqq.
----- , house of, destroyed to prevent
return of ghost, 3-21
Delaware Indians fear ghost of dead
husband,226
Denmark, corpse carried out feet
foremost m, 31; treatment of
suicides in, 157; use of special
opening for removing corpses,
101
Dhanwar of India desert a hut where
an old man has died, 8
Dickens, Charles, cited, 34
Dinka of Upper Nile, fear ghost of a
murdered man, 123 ; fear spirit of
a man dying childless, 242 ; sacri­
fice at remarriage of widow, 221
Disguise as means of deceiving
ghosts, 49
Dobu, New Guinea, to name the dead
a cause of war in, 44
Door shifted after a death, 79, 80
D ’Orbigny, French traveller, cited,
20
Doreh (Dutch New Guinea) natives
fear ghost of murdered person,
112
Dos Santos cited, 13
Dumal of Central Provinces fear
ghosts of men killed by tiger, 163
Dyaks of Borneo, put coins on eyes
of dead man, 33; funeral cus­
toms, 68
Effigies used to deceive the dead, 59-
63
Egypt, ancient, mummies masked,
36
Egyptians allow hair to grow in
mourning, 56
England, suicide in, 157
Eskimos build effigies of unburied
dead, 279-80; desert a hut in
which some one has died, 16;
remove corpse by special opening,
95, 96 ; remove dying person to a
temporary hut, 15 ; their treat­
ment of slain animals, 309-11
Evolutions performed by corpse-
bearers to confuse the ghost, 73
Ewe-peoples of Togo*, fear dead hus­
band or wife, 218 ; fear ghost of
suicide, 143 ; fear spirit of slain
leopard, 288 ; fear women dying
in childbed, 195 ; funeral cere­
mony in absence of body, 275;
remove dead priest through a hole
in the roof, 90; peculiar funeral
customs, 11
Feilberg, Dr., cited, 157^
Fijian custom at death of an old
man, 63
----- kings removed after death by
special opening, 86
Fijians, fear and try to deceive spirits
of women dying in childbirth, 63 ;
fear the ghosts of the slain, 105 ;
strangle the widow of a dead man,
236
Finger mutilation as a sign of
mourning, etc., 141 n.
Gabit of Bombay, ceremony at re­
marriage of a widow, 214
Gajos of Sumatra carry out dead by
special opening, 84
Galelareese of Halmahera, bury a
banana-stem with a corpse, 59;
close eyes of corpse with a coin, or
with lime, 33 ; make puppet of
unburied dead, 264
Ganigas of India marry corpse to a
plant, 245
German law as to corpses of crimi­
nals and suicides, 102
Germany, corpses in, carried out feet
foremost, 31
Ghost believed to return for another
if eyes of corpse open, 34
Ghosts, of animals, 283-311 ; of dead
husbands and wives, 199-235 ; of
people dying violently feared, 161^
sq.; of unburied dead feared, 260-
283 ; of unmarried and childless
dead, 235-83 ; of women dying in
childbed greatly feared, 175-235 ;
pegged or nailed down, 28
INDEX
Giagues of Africa fear soul of man
dying away from home, 276
Gonds of Central Provinces, cere­
mony at killing a tiger, 299 ; fear
spirit of man killed by a tiger, 164
Gouros of Ivory Coast fear ghost of
slain deer, 293
Grandidier, Alfred, cited, 273
Gray, Rev. cited, 254
Grebos of Liberia bury high priests
in stream, 27
Greece, modern, puppet ofman dying
abroad, 282
Greek belief about murder, 138
----- custom of placing pitcher on
graves of unmarried dead, 259
----- mourning costume, 51, 55
----- treatment of suicides, 156-7
Greenlanders remove corpse from a
house by special opening, 95
Gregor, Rev. Walter, cited, 159
Groot, J. J. M. De, cited, 249
Grubb, W. B., cited, 21, 99
Guarauno Indians deposit dead in
the house and burn it, 19
Guinea, South, sick woman in,
assumes disguise, 53
----- , women of, assume a peculiar
attire in pregnancy, 53
Gurao of Central Provinces fear
ghost of woman dying in child­
bed, 176
Haida Indians remove dead chief by
special opening, 97
Hair, allowed to grow in mourning,
56 ; cut in mourning, 56
Halbas of Central Provinces fear
ghosts of men killed by tigers, 165
Hidatsa Indians repel a ghost by the
smell of burning leather, 23
Hindu sons allow hair to grow in
mourning for parents, 56
Hindus, carried out by special open­
ing after death, 87
----- of North India carry out dead
feet foremost, 31
----- of Punjab, treatment of women
dying in childbed, 176
Ho-nan peasants in China carry a
dying child in zigzag direction, 76
Hottentots of South Africa remove
corpse by special opening, 94
Hovas of Madagascar let hair grow
in mourning, 57
Huron Indians, their treatment of
the drowned, 174
Ibans or Dyaks of Sarawak make
effigy of unburied dead, 266
Ibibio of Southern Nigeria, bury
undesirables face down, 29 ; fear
the ghost of a dead husband, 219 ;
fear the spirits of women dying in
childbed, 196 ; mask the faces of
dead chiefs, 35 ; murderers fear
victim’s ghost among, 121; re­
move body of dead mother by
special opening, 90; remove
corpse by laole in wall, 90
Ibo peoples of Nigeria, funeral rites
in absence of body, 275
Igara of Northern Nigeria propitiate
spirit of slain foe, 123
Ila-speaking peoples of Rhodesia,
fear ghost of slain enemy, 131;
fear ghost of woman dying preg­
nant, 198 ; ceremony at killing an
eland, 298
India, ancient, footsteps effaced after
a death, 70
----- , burial in effigy in, 268-71;
menial tribes bury dead face down,
30
Indians of British Columbia fear
ghosts of dead spouses, 228
----- of Bolivia shift door of a house
in which one has died, 79
----- of British Guiana fear ghost of
a slain man, 137
----- of Canada, allow hair to grow
in mourning, 56; remove dead by
special openings, 98
----- of Central America observe
mourning rites on death of enemy,
54
----- of North America observe
silence after a death, 41
----- of Peru desert the house of a
dead person, 19
Indonesians observe silence after a
death, 39
317
318 T H E F E A R O F T H E D E A D
Ingush of Caucasus, marriage of
dead among, 258
Issoudun, British New Guinea,
treatment of widower at, 200-203
Italy, corpse carried out feet fore­
most in, 31
Itongo or ghost feared by Amazulu,
224
Jaguas of the Amazon burn the hut
of a deceased person, 19
Ja-Luo of Kavirondo fear ghost of
slain foe, 129
Japan, burial of navel-string in place
of unburied dead, 272
Jen of Northern Nigeria fear ghost
of a slain hare, 285
Jews allow hair to grow in mourning,
56
Jibaros of Ecuador deposit the dead
in the house and abandon it, 19
Jones, Rev. P., cited, 22
Kabyles of North Africa, murderers
seek to avoid ghost of victim
among, 121
Kachins of Burma, fear ghosts of
those dying violently, 170; fear
the spirits of murdered persons,
115; flee from spirit of woman
dying in childbed, 183-7 ; pretend
to destroy a house in which some
one has died, 6; remove the
bodies of women dying in childbed
by special opening, 82
Kafirs of South Africa, burn the
thatched house of a deceased, 13 ;
bury the door of a hut where one
has died, 80
Kai of Northern New Guinea, aban­
don a house in which a death took
place, 5; fear ghosts of slaughtered
foes, n o ; their methods of de­
ceiving the dead, 65
Kalanga of Central Provinces fear
ghosts of men killed by tiger, 165
Karens of Burma, adopt an inverted
speech to confuse^the dead, 70;
call back spirits of unburied dead,
267; desert a house in which
some one has died, 7
Kassounas-Bouras of gudan fear the
spirits of slain animals, 292
Katab of Northern Nigeria fear as­
sault of a dead victim’s ghost, 122
Kavirondo, Nilotic tribes of, break
down a hut where one has died,
10 ; people of, fear ghost of slain
man, 125-6, 129
----- of East Africa remove body of
childless woman by special open­
ing, 92
Kawars of India fear ghost of man
killed by tiger, 166
Kayans of Borneo, fear spirit of
woman dying in childbed, 194;
take out dead by special opening,
85
Ketosh warrior of Kenya fears spirit
of dead enemy, 130
Khasis of North-Eastern India call
back spirit of unburied dead, 268
Kikuyu of Kenya fear ghost of slain
victim, 128
Kir of Central Provinces fear dan­
gerous ghosts of the dead, 167
Kirs of Central Provinces appease
the spirits of unmarried dead, 243
Kirua of Africa burn kings in beds
of streams, 26
Kiwai Papuans of British New
Guinea, ceremonies when widow
remarries, 203; fear spirits of
women dying in childbed, 195 ;
fears ghosts of those dying vio­
lently, 172 ; carry dead out head
foremost, 31 ; fear ghosts of slain
enemies, 107 ; do not name their
dead, 44
Komatis of Madras marry dead man
to living woman, 246
Korkus of Central Provinces, cere­
mony at killing a tiger, 299
Korwas, an Indian tribe, break
down the hut in which a man
died, 9
Koryaks of Kamtchatka, ceremony
at remarriage of widow, 217
----- of Siberia, carry out the dead
under edge of tent-cover, 84;
their precautions at burning a
dead body, 77
INDEX 319
Kruijt, Albert C., cited, 39
Kunbi of In&a, ceremony at re­
marriage of widow, 207
Kurmis, an Indian tribe, desert a
house in which one has died, 9
------ of Hindustan, fear ghost of
woman d^ing in childbed, 177;
fear the ghosts of those dying by
violence 167
Kutu tribe of Congo, widows remain
silent for three months, 41
Kwakiutl Indians, mourning customs
of widows or widowers, 233
—---------- - c*f British Columbia re­
move a corpse by a hole in the
wall, 97
Lakhers of North-Eastern India, fear
the ghost of a slain enemy, 116-
120; ceremonyonkilling ananimal,
302
Lango of Uganda, fear the souls of
certain animals, 294; fear ghost of
slain foe, 124
Laos (Siam), bodies taken out by
special opening in, 81
Lapps desert a hut in which a person
has died, 9
Le Roy, Mgr., cited, 24
Lengua Indians of Paraguay, burned
the hut of a deceased, 21; customs
after a death, 99; fear ghost of
murdered man, 137; never pro­
nounce the name of a dead per­
son, 47
Lepchas of Sikkim remove corpse by
hole in floor, 89
Lillooet Indians, mourning customs
of widows or widowers, 232
Livingstone, David, cited, 14
Lkungen Indians, of Vancouver
Island, customs in mourning for
dead spouse, 229; remove corpse
through special opening, 98
Loango, West Africa, fear of ghosts
of dead husbands in, 222
.Lower Murray River, aborigines of,
death customs, 23
Lushai of North-Eastern India, cere­
mony at killing an enemy or
animal, 300-301; fear the ghost of
a slain victim, 116; fear spirit of
woman dying in childbed, 182
Lycians, ancient mourning customs,
52
Mabuiag of Torres Straits Islands
carry out corpse feet foremost, 30
Macassars of South Celebes take out
dead king by special window,
85-6 «
Madagascar, cenotaphs for souls in,
273
Mahafali of Madagascar practise
suicide as form of revenge, 148
Mahar of Bombay Presidency, cere­
mony at remarriage of a widow,
214
Makonde of South Africa desert a
village where one has died, 14
Malagasy of Madagascar do not
name the dead, 45
Malays, block openings of head of
dead man, 36; fear ghosts of
women dying in childbed, 189
Man, E. H., cited, 49
Mana of Central Provinces, widow’s
fear of husband’s spirit among,
209
Mang-Gorari of Central Provinces,
fear of dead husband’s ghost
among, 209
Mantra of Malacca abandon a
clearing after a death, 6
Maori village deserted when a death
occurred, 4
----- fear ghost of slain foe, 106
Maoris of New Zealand, treatment of
the unburied dead, 261
Mara tribe, North Australia, remove
their camp at a death, 3
Maravars of Southern India marry
dead man to living woman, 247
Marshall Islanders abandon hut of
dead chief, 4
Mashona of Rhodesia fear ghost of
dead wife, 223
Masks on faces of dead, 36
Matianak or spirit ofwoman dying in
childbed, 191
Mecklenburg, removal of corpse in,
102
320 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Mehtar, a caste of the Punjab, bury
dead face down, 30
Melanesians of Bismarck Archi­
pelago fear a victim’s ghost, 106
----- of South-East Solomon Islands
substitute coconut fordead twin, 63
Menomonie Indians fear ghost of
dead husband, 227
Mexicans, ancient, feared ghosts of
women dyr.ng in childbed, 198
Mexico, ancient, effigy of man dying
fromhome, 281; faces of dead kings
masked in, 35
Milne, Mrs. Leslie, cited, 71
Minahassa, Celebes, peculiar funeral
custom in, 79
Misol, natives of, in East Indies,
abandon a house in which a death
took place, 5
Mois of Indo-China, fear a tiger’s
ghost, 307 ; remove their dead by
special opening, 82
Mosquito Indians disguise them­
selves at a funeral, 53
Mossi of Sudan remove corpse by
special opening, 91
Mpongwes of Western Africa, cos­
tume in mourning, 52
Muimu or ghost among the Ak-
amba, 241
Mukden in Mongolia, at, the body of
a dead child removed by special
opening, 83
Munjd or dreaded ghost of un­
married dead, 244
Mycenae, golden masks discovered
at, 34
Myoro custom in Africa in mourning
for dead child, 54
Nairs of Southern India do not shave
or cut the hair while in mourning,
ss
Naman (British New Guinea),
natives of, fear vengeful ghost of
slain foe, 108
Name of dead taboo, 42
Nanzela of Rhodegia, ceremony at
killing an elephant, 296
Natchez Indians of Mississippi fear
souls of slain men, 137
Navahos of United States pull down
and burn a hut in 'tfhich some one
has died, 18
Nelson, E. N., cited, 280
New Caledonia, natives of, allow hair
to grow after burying a corpse, 57
New Guinea, natives of,' costumes in
mourning, 52
Nhavi of Bombay Presidency, cere­
mony at remarriage of widow, 214
Nias, burial customs in, 70 ; fear of
ghosts of women dying in childbed
in, 191-3
Nicobar Islands, mourning costume
as a disguise from ghost in, 49
----- Islanders close the eyes of
corpse, 32
Nigeria, fear of slain animals in,
28s
Nishinam widows of California
observe silence, 41
Norse rule that corpse may not be
removed from house by ordinary
door, 101
Nufoors of Dutch New Guinea,
ceremony when widow remarries,
200; make images of unburied
dead, 263
Nuru or spirit of the slain feared by
Thonga of South Africa, 132
Obongo of West Africa bury dead in
hollow tree or running stream, 24-
25
Ogowe, people of, abandon a site
when a chief dies, 13
Oigob of East Africa do not cut
their hair for two months after a
death, 57
Ojebway Indians, drive off the ghost
of a dead husband, 227; remove
dead by special opening, 98 j repel
ghosts by smells, 22
Omaha Indians of United States fear
ghost of murdered man, 135
Onas of Tierra del Fuego do no£.
mention the name of a dead man,
47
Oraons of Chota Nagpur, fear ghosts
of women dying in childbed, 178 ;
fear the spirits of men killed by
INDEX
tigers, 169; propitiate the angry
spirit of a irfurdered man, 120
Oraons of Oriss£ peg down ghost of
dead man, 28, 29
Orestes in Arcadia, legend of, 140-41
Orokaiva of British New Guinea
drive away the spirit of a slain
man, 109
Orotchi of North-Eastern Asia bury
image of unburied dead, 273
Ottawa Indians fear ghosts of slain
foes, 135
Ovaherero of South-West Africa,
adopt costume as disguise from
ghost, 50; mourning rites in
absence of body, 279
Palaungs of Burma, adopt- curious
mode of deceiving the ghost of a
dead child, 71 ; fear the ghosts of
those dying violently, 171 ; their
treatment of women dying in
childbed, 188
Pampa del Sacramento Indians repel
ghosts by stinks, 23
Panwar of India, fear of dead hus­
band’s ghost among, 210; fear
the spirit of a man killed by a tiger,
168
Parit of Bombay Presidency sacrifice
at remarriage of widow, 216
Pehuenches of Central Chile carry
dead out feet foremost, 31
Pelew Islanders, bury banana-tree
with woman dying in childbed,
60; fear ghost of slain foe, 106
Perche, France, removal of still-born
children in, 102
Persians, ancient, mourning cus­
toms, SS
----- removed dead by hole in wall,
89
Plutarch, as the Father of Folk­
lore, 51
Polo, Marco, cited, 257
JPomerania, suicides in, 157
Prussia, West, suicides in, 157
Ramoshi of Bombay Presidency,
ceremony at remarriage of widow,
215
Rumanians mourn over effigy of man
dying abroad, 282
Russell, R. V., cited, 150
Russia, coins placed on eyes of corpse
in, 34; marriage of the dead in,
259
Sacae of antiquity put mourners in
pits, 48
Sakai of Perak (Malay Peninsula)
bum down a house in which some
one has died, 6
Sakalava of Madagascar, practise
suicide as form of revenge, 148;
remove dead king by breach made
in wall, 89
Sakalavas of Madagascar do not use
words which formed parts of the
names of dead kings, 45
Saleijer, Indonesia, special window
for corpses, 86
Samoa, treatment of unburied dead
in, 262
Samoyeds of Siberia carry out dead
by special opening, 84
San Cristoval, natives of, their cus­
tom of misleading the ghost, 62
Sansia of India offer sacrifices to
those dying violently, 168
Sardinia, men of, do not shave after
death of wives, 57
Savars of Central Provinces fear
ghost of childless dead, 244
----- of India propitiate soul of man
dying violently, 169
Savaras, an Indian tribe, bum down
houses in which death has oc­
curred, 9
----- of Southern India, ceremony at
remarriage of widow, 216
Savoe (Indian Archipelago), early
marriages in, 237
Saw, or spirit of dead animal, 304
Schliemann, Dr., 34
Serbia, coins placed on eyes of corpse
in, 34
Scotland, in, coin placed on eyes of
corpse if open, 33 ; treatment of
suicides in, 158-61
----- , Highlands of, corpses of
suicides, 102
321
322 THE FEAR OF THE DEAD
Segidi of India fear ghost of un­
married dead, 244
Shaman of Siberia disguises himself
from devils, 53
Shans of Burma fear malignant ghost
of woman dying in childbed, 187
----- of Indo-China mask the face
of a dead chief, 35
Shilluk of Upper Nile, fear spirits of
slain enendes, 123 ; marriage to
dead chief among, 241
Siam, corpse placed in coffin face
down in, 30; faces of dead kings
masked in, 35 ; marriage of dead
to the living in, 248 ; performance
of corpse-bearers in, 78
Sihanaka of Madagascar, widows
remain silent, 41
Silence as a means of deceiving the
ghost, 38
Siviyar of India marry corpse to an
effigy, 245
Slain, ghosts of the, greatly feared,
103
Slave Coast, negroes of, bury dead in
house, which is sometimes aban­
doned, 10, 11; widows allow hair
to grow in mourning, 56
Smith, E. W., and A. M. Dale, cited,
296
Stefansson, cited, 309-11
Stinks as a method of repelling the
dead, 22 sq.
Suicides, ghosts of, greatly dreaded,
142
Sunar of Central Provinces cremate
image of unburied dead, 270
Sweden, gates reversed after a
funeral has passed in, 101
Tahiti, in, a leaf-stalk is buried with
a corpse to deceive it, 59
Tamarahumare Indians of Mexico
destroy a house where a death has
taken place, 18
Tartars, marriage ofthe dead among,
257
Tasmanian aborigines do not pro­
nounce name of dead, 42
Tatkok or soul of slain, animal, 310
Teli of Bombay cere­
mony at remarriage of widow*
216 1
Theal, Dr. McCall," cited, 14
Thompson Indians of British Col­
umbia, burn the lodge where an
adult person died, 16 ; fear of the
dead among, 17 ; fear the ghosts
of the slain, 134; mourning cus­
toms of widows or widowers, 231
Thonga of South Africa fear the
spirit of slain enemy, 132
----- of South-East Africa remove
corpse by special opening, 93
Timor, East Indies, heads hunters in,
appease ghosts of their victims,
113 ; natives of, bury banana-tree
with woman dying in childbed, 61
Tipo or soul of slain animal, 294
Tlingit Indians of Alaska, beliefs
about burial, 280; remove dead
chief by opening in wall of dwell­
ing, 97
Todas of Southern India marry
corpse to living person, 247
Tolage of Celebes make image of
unburied dead, 265
Toradyas of Central Celebes, cere­
mony when widow remarries, 205 ;
fear ghost of woman dying in
childbed, 193 ; fear souls of those
slain in battle, 113 ; pass a corpse
out by the window, 85
Travancore, dead rajah of, removed
by hole in wall, 88; ghosts of
hanged murderers feared in, 121;
treatment of women dying in
childbed in, 178
Tschi peoples of Gold Coast, cere­
mony at funeral in absence of body,
274
Tschudi, von, cited, 19
Tschwi of West Africa form an effigy
of a dead twin, 61
Tsetsaut Indians, ceremonies in
mourning for a husband, 228
Tuaregs of North Africa, do not pro^.
nounce the name of a dead rela­
tive, 47; shift their camp at a
death, 15
Tucanos of Brazil burn the dwelling
of a dead man, 21
INDEX 323
Tucanos of South America desert the
hut of a dead person, 20
Tungus of Siberia efface footsteps
after a burial, 69
Turkish tribes of Central Asia cut the
tails of a dead hero’s horses, 56
Tuski of Alaska remove dead by-
special opening, 97
Uganda, hair allowed to grow after
death of king in, 57
Ulawa, Solomon Islands, method of
puzzling ghost employed on, 62
•
Vaniyan of India marry corpse to a
plant, 246
Vasisgona or woman dying in child­
bed greatly feared in Banks
Island, Melanesia, 60
Wabemba of Congo, ceremony at
remarriage of widower, 223
----- tribe of Tanganyika bury chiefs
in beds of rivers, 25
Wachagga of East Africa fear ghosts
of suicides, 147
Wachamba of Central Africa, their
treatment of suicides, 148
Wageia of Tanganyika fear ghosts of
slain, 129
Wajagga of East Africa, ceremony at
remarriage of widow, 220; fear of
slain birds among, 295 j marriage
to dead man, 239 j mourning cere­
mony in absence of body, 278
----- of Kilimanjaro bury shoot of
banana-tree with body of dead
mother, 61; remove body of child­
less woman by special opening, 92
Wambugwe of East Africa rub fat on
eyes of corpse, 32
Wandamba of Tanganyika, cere­
mony at killing an elephant, 295 j
fear ghost of man killed by ele­
phant, 173
Wangata of Belgian - Congo pull
down house in which a death
occurs, 13
Wanigela River (New Guinea),
natives of, fear ghost of a slain
man, 107
Warangi of East Africa rub fat on
eyes of corpse, 32
Warramunga tribe of Australia ob­
serve silence after a d^ath, 39
Watumbe tribe of Tanganyika bury
chiefs in beds of rivers, 25
Wawanga of East Africa drive stake
into grave to lay ghost, 29
Windessi (Dutch New Guinea),
natives of, drive away ghosts of
the slain, 112
Wotyaks of Russia fear the ghosts of
suicides, 156
Yabim of Northern New Guinea
dread spirit of murdered man,
h i
Yakuts of Siberia do not mention
name of dead person, 45
Yaunde of Cameroons abandon
hamlet on an unexplained death,
12
Yendang of Northern Nigeria fear
the pursuit of the ghosts of mur­
dered victims, 122
Yoruba peoples of Slave Coast,
funeral ceremonies in absence of
body, 275
Yorubas of West Africa form wooden
effigy of a dead twin, 61
Yucatecs of Mexico forsake a house
where some one has died, 18
Yungur of Northern Nigeria fear
pursuit by dead victim’s ghost,
123
----- people, Nigeria, fear ghost of
slain animal, 285
Zend-Avesta, cited, 89
THE END
Printed in Great Britain by R. & R. Clar k , L im ited, Edinburgh*
