{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__zuriel___lectures_on_celestial_philosophy.pdf","mytitle":"Lectures On Celestial Philosophy","mylang":"de"}
-
A S E R IES
OF
L E C T U R. E. S
ON
T'HE S(GIRENGE
OF
CELESTIAL PHILOSOPHY,
OR
THE LANGUAGE OF THE STARS.
PART I.
CONTAINING THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES.
BY ZURIEL. K.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR:
PUBLISHED BY SHERWOOD, GILBERT, AND PIPER,
PATERNOSTER-ROW.
1835.
Price 4s. 6d. Cloth.
PRINT ED BY J. SMITH, 49, Lo N G A C R. E.
A L L C O M M UNICATIONS
ON THE SUBJECT OF
THE SCIENCE OF CELESTIAL PHILOSOPHY,
TO BE ADDRESSED TO
U B II B th9
To the care of Mr. J. WHEELER, Teacher of AstRoNoMY, and
THE UsE of THE GLOBEs, No. 1, Fitzroy Place, Southwark
Bridge-road, near Newington Causeway; or 7, Charles-street,
Westminster-road, if by letter, post-paid.
The Public are also informed they may be supplied as above
with CIRCULAR PLAN IsPHEREs for erecting Figures, or
Themes of the Celestial Houses, from 5s. and upwards; and
TABLEs of the MoTIoNs of the CELESTIAL ORBs H E M &
?, from 1770 to 1861, to be used with the LECTUREs, Price 21s,
Calculations of the places in the Heavens of the Celestial Orbs,
for any required time, to assist the investigations of such Ladies
and Gentlemen who use the Author's LECTUREs. Also, the
ScIENCE taught, and written LECTUREs on CELESTIAL THEMEs
at birth days, forwarded to any part of the Kingdom.
ERRA TA.
Pages 19, 33, 37, lines 8, 4, 19, for “Sir Robert Peel,” “Hon. Sir R. Peel,”
“Sir R. Peel,” read The Right Hon. Sir R. Peel.
Page 19, line 8, for G) # O 3, read G) # Ok :
Page 37, lines 23 and 24, for the sign Lunar Orb in Capricorn, read the
Lunar Orb in the sign Capricorn.
Page 66, line 19, for found, read formed.
ADDRESS.
IN this enlightened age, when liberal principles and
patient research after Truth go hand-in-hand, we cease to
wonder, but turn with admiration and pleasure to contem
plate the vast discoveries and improvements in Science,
which are the constant results. The acquirement of uni
versal knowledge, in ancient and modern Arts, ever
attend the progress of communities in the course of their
rise from barbarity and ignorance to elegance and refine
ment, and evidently determine the difference existing
between nations in the same ratio as the various degrees
of sagacity in the lower order of beings of the Creation
distinguish one animal from another. It is, then, in this
age of inquiry and enterprise the following course of
LECTUREs have been attempted, and are intended by the
Author to convey to the public at large some useful in
formation on the Science of CELESTIAL PHILosoPHY,
more universally known to the world under the appellation
of Astrology. That there is something of truth remaining
disguised and blended with the jargon of judicial Astro
logy was the opinion of the learned Dr. MEAD;" and this
fact the Author of these sheets boldly asserts can be clearly
proved beyond contradiction, and it only remained to collect
into one tangible point such matter that would enable the
inquirer without difficulty and labour to form for himself a
* See his Treatise concerning the Influence of the Sun and Moon upon
Human Bodies, page 3.
iv
tolerably accurate idea of its truth or falsehood; this has
been done in the following LECTUREs, and to the test of
experience he submits them, confidently anticipating the
results will be of a favourable description wherever the
principles have been carefully examined. No one more
deeply regrets than the Author himself that the public
profession of this Science should so long have been con
fined (generally speaking) to vulgar and illiterate persons,
whose written oracular responses on the Future have been
delivered in such disgraceful language and bad orthography
as would even raise a blush on the cheek of the dullest
hundreth-time stultified scholar of the meanest Hypodidas
calus, and a direct insult to the understanding of those
persons they were intended to enlighten—beside holding
the Science up to the contempt of persons who had no
opportunity of examining its principles but through such an
unfavourable medium. One thing more which has also had
the effect of retarding its progress is, that several persons
who, from mercenary motives in the course of business,
have collected and hoarded in their depositaries the pro
ductions of all the early or valuable authors who have
treated on this Science, and have doled out the mite of
knowledge contained in their works at such exorbitant
prices which effectually prevented numbers of persons who
where favourable toward it from obtaining the necessary
means of investigating the subject. These obstacles are
now, from long observation and study, removed; and the
system which is here presented to the reader is compre
hensive, and differs entirely from any work already before
the public.
INTRODUCTION.
“For Heaven
Is the Book of God before thee set,
Therein to read His wondrous works.”-MILTON.
OF all existing Sciences that of Astrology, it must be
allowed, takes precedence in antiquity (Astronomy ex
cepted), and has been more or less cultivated from the
most remote periods to which ancient history will carry us
to the present time, by the Divine, the Lawgiver, the
Philosopher, the Physician, and the private Student, till
within the space of the preceding century, since which
time, in consequence of the numerous impostures which
have been carried on under the name of Astrology, by
ignorant, illiterate, and designing persons, this most
interesting and delightful Science has been for a time
o’ershadowed by a cloud, which the light of intellectual
research has at length pierced, and the gloom is now fast
dispelling.
We find on reference to the most ancient historical
records, that the Magicians (as they were in those unen
lightened ages erroneously called) who studied the motions
of the Heavenly Bodies, were consulted by their monarchs
on all occasions of importance, and that, in fact, nothing
relative to state affairs was transacted without application
previously to them; ultimately it became an essential
branch of the education of a gentleman—was regularly
studied at our Universities and patronized, particularly by
the courts of France and other continental powers. From
vi
*- : * -
these and other circumstances, it must be apparent to
every impartial and unprejudiced mind, that the Planets
had or have been ever considered by the learned in all
ages to hold a powerful dominion over the affairs of
mankind, examples of which are too numerous to specify
in the limited space allotted to the Introduction to these
LECTURES; there is, however, one instance wherein the
science was publicly acknowledged and its professor
referred to by the government of this country, which we
cannot allow to pass without notice. Among a series of
Hieroglyphics published in 1651 by that most popular and
intelligent astrological student, WILLIAM LILLY, relating
to the affairs of the English nation, the portents of which
were directed to Future Events, many of which appear to
belong to years still to come, there are two of a remarkable
description; the first, represents a church-yard, with
sextons employed in emptying cart loads of dead bodies
into graves; the second, is a view of London Bridge, and
of both sides of the river, and the city of London in flames.
That these two predictions, viz. the Plague and Fire of
London, were most lamentably fulfilled no one can deny.
After the fire, LILLY was summoned to the Bar of the
House of Commons, when the Speaker informed him, that
as he had fifteen years before in that work predicted the
calamity of the Plague and Fire which befel the City of
London, the House wished to ask him whether he could
give any account of the authors, or cause of the fire? He
answered that he had given it his most serious attention,
but could not account for it in any other manner than as
the immediate finger of God.
We find that not only States but Sciences are subject to
changes, and their rise or fall in power, or public estima
tion, regularly effected by the revolutions which are
constantly taking place by slow yet certain changes in the
vii
situations of the Planetary Orbs which compose the System
of the world which we inhabit; truth from time to time
forces itself into notice, in spite of its enemies, until its
beauty becomes clouded and again involved in obscurity
and mystery. Error and ignorance disfigure it, craft and
subtilty disguise it, and oppresion and prejudice trample it
under foot; but
“There is a tide in the affairs of things,”
and then, when the unfavourable impressions are effaced,
again the fair form of Truth shines forth, like the meridian
sun without an intervening cloud. The science of Astrology
has (there is unfortunately too great reason to believe)
been impeded in its progress by its professors; that narrow
minded selfishness which is too often attendant on almost
every branch of science, or mechanical business, has
contributed to involve in mystery and doubt this plain,
clear, and of itself, explicit study.
Let the effect of planetary operations on all created
matter, and especially on the minds and bodies of mankind
have the benefit of a fair trial; if it is false the vanity of
its pretensions will soon become evident, and, if delusive,
be effectually exploded; but if the contrary happen, as
from experience is confidently anticipated, it will become
once more established and be allowed again a place among
those sciences from which it has so long been separated,
and considered an outcast. It is quite plain, as Pope
observes,
“Whatever is, is right.”
The study of CELESTIAL PHILosoPHY ought not to be con
sidered a presumptive effort of man to pry into the secrets of
his Maker; if it were so, the events which are the subject
of Revelation, both in the Old and New Testament, would
never haye been allowed by an Almighty and Omniscient
Creator.
viii
In these LECTUREs it will, we trust, be clearly andsatis
factorily shown the true foundation on which the predictive
Science rests; and that the ambiguities and mysteries which
have so long been personified with the Science ofAstrology
will be effectually eradicated.
With these remarks we shall launch our bark on the
ocean of public opinion, trusting it will meet with unpre
judiced and impartial attention, and that the kind reader
will bear in mind its object, the cause of Truth, ever
remembering,
“To err is human-to forgive divine.”
1835.
LECTURE I.
General view of the Principles of Celestial Philosophy,
and of the nature and qualities of the Signs of the
Zodiac, and of the Planetary Orbs when placed in the
Signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius at Birth.
AT the commencement of the subject it appears indis
pensable, for the information of the inquirer into the
principles on which this system of Celestial Philosophy is
founded, that we enumerate the particular points from
whence its action on the general affairs of Man appear to
emanate, and which resolve themselves into the following
heads:
I. Generally from the Eratie Orbs, composing the system
of which our Earth is a part.
II. Particularly from the natural qualities of different
portions of the Earth’s orbit, and which are divided by
Astronomers into twelve parts, known by the appellation of
Zodiacal Signs, in some of which the Planets appear
constantly.
III. From the properties of the twelve Celestial Man
sions into which the ambient is divided, six of which are
appropriated to the Diurnal or upper Hemisphere, and the
other six to the Nocturnal or lower Hemisphere. These
are separated from each other by the horizon, the quantity
contained in each six, varying according to circumstances
connected with the different latitudes of the places of
observation. The Hemispheres are again divided by the
Meridian, or the Zenith and Nadir, into four equal parts or
quarters, each quarter being then subdivided into three,
making a total of twelve spaces,and in these, which we shall
call Houses, the Signs of the Zodiac and Planets appear
10
continually, alternately rising, culminating, and setting,
depending upon the situation of the Earth in her orbit,
the place of the observer, and the hour and minute of time
when inspection is made. -
IV. From the nature and qualities of the Planets
themselves, from their aspects, the properties of the Signs
of the Zodiac in which they are posited, as also that of the
particular division of the ambient in which they may at
that time be posited, conclusions are to be drawn re
specting thespecies of Event, Past or Future in the lives
of individuals, according (as it may happen) whether in
spection is made immediately on the birth taking place
or after some lapse of time has succeeded.
W. From the circumstances attending configurations of
the Planetary Orbs taking place at particular periods in
the lives of individuals which, from the regular course of
nature, are found by experience to be critical or remark
able for the production of important changes in the
constitution of the human body, and those years are uni
formly observed to be attended by extraordinary though
gradual alterations in the affairs of those persons whose ages
correspond with them, the situations of such persons in life
being likewise considered.
VI. From remarkable phoenomena in the heavens
denominated by Astronomers, the Conjunctions of the
superior Planets, Saturn and Jupiter, which happen in a
period of twenty years distance from each other, and from
the sympathy or antipathy which the positions of the
heavens present at births of individuals, astronomically
considered and compared with those remarkable congresses,
as also from configurations which future years may present
acting in accordance or otherwise with them, a chain of
connexion may be traced, and positive reasons assigned for
Events in which Nations, Communities and Families are
11
closely linked together, and from a diligent comparison of
the Astronomical positions in those years, some real insight
may be thus obtained respecting the future prosperity or
adversity of each individual subject to their power.
These principles are the foundation on which my system
principally depend, and it now only remains to treat of the
manner in which the influence of the Heavenly Bodies
appear to act on the affairs of created beings. This is a
matter of considerable importance, and it appears to my
apprehension that it is in consequence of this part of the
subject having by the generality of Astrological Authors
been neglected that the Science is not more universally
known and studied; most of its Professors in their Treatises
have introduced it to their readers as a Science whose
principles were perfection itself, whose power was absolute,
and that not only the affairs of nations, communities, and
families, but also the minds of individuals were completely
bound, led captive, and chained to the chariot wheels of
the all-triumphant Urania. The only writer of eminence,
I have observed, who introduces his opinions on the
subject to the student in a rational manner is Claudius
Ptolemy, who is acknowledged to have been one of the
most learned men of the age in which he lived, and to
whose writings I refer all persons who wish to become
acquainted with the theoretical points of this delightful
study;” but as that author has been considered too abstruse
for general reading, his valuable works have been laid on
the shelf, and others substituted of less depth of argument
which might be fully sufficient for the use of such persons
* His Tetrabiblos, Book I, Chap. iii., contains some interesting matter re
lating to his opinion of the utility of astral learning, and how far its
attainment would be useful to mankind, in language perfectly intelligible,
particularly that translation by Ashmand.
12
** *- - - - - --
~~~--------------
* -- -
-- - ---
whohad previously attainedsome knowledge ofitsprinciples
or had imbibed a predilection in its favour,yet unfortunately
left all such who were opposed to it, either from religious
feeling, or from principles connected with the free agency of
mankind, in uncertainty as to its lawfulness or its truth.
This is the barrier I am anxious to remove; and, also, to
prove the general rules of this Science are (as is the case with
all other sciences) liable to exceptions, and that it has been
from neglect of consideration in this particular that great
mischief has ensued. It appears, then, from constant
observation that the influx of the Stars have three distinct
points of operation, viz.—Mind, Body, and Affairs, and,
consequently, in all cases one or more of these points must
be the subject of its action. But in all Nativities where
mental powers of remarkable strength are developed and a
greater portion of firm principle indicated, configurations
of evil tendency are observedto pass with less effect on the
affairs of such persons than on others whose minds and
feelings,from circumstances astronomically connected with
the parturition or birth, were more acute and susceptible,
and whose feelings and affairs were, therefore, likely to be
more powerfully acted upon through that medium.
The particular classes of persons subject to such confi
gurations, I assert without fear of contradiction, can be
readily distinguished by the application of the rules of the
system, and combining the indications observed with the
sphere of life in which individuals move, practical inferences
may be drawn, and results obtained of a satisfactory nature
in all cases where the premises have been fairly considered,
viz.—the quality of the Mind, and situation in life of each
individual. It now becomes a matter of consideration, how
far a knowledge of the indications of Future Events may
be condusive to our happiness, or favourable to our inter
ests in the World. And in order that we may form some idea
13
ofthe application of this knowledge, for the generalgood of
Mankind in their Affairs, it is necessary to observe, there
are two leading principles which appear to be inherent in
the breastsof Human Beings, viz. self preservation, and the
pursuit of happiness. The latter of which appears univer
sally diffused, varying only as the habits, manners, and
customs of nations, the situation in life, and the minds of
individuals differ from each other, and also in proportion as
the degrees of civilization in countries rise above each
other. In the earliest ages of the World mankind in their
simple uncultivated state differed little, but in physical
powers, living together in herds, their wants few, were in
common with themselves, and generally supplied from the
same sources, the spontaneous productions of the Earth,
and the ingenuity which the gradual exercise of their
mental powers suggested to them, individual property was
at that periodunknown. All things necessary for subsistence,
within reach of all, in this state of things the predictive
Science would avail them little; constant experience of
the regular changes of the seasons taught them how far it
was neccessary to provide for their subsistence during the
suspension of the produce of the Earth in the winter
months, and gradually introduced to them the knowledge
of Astronomy. But as civilization gradually gainedground,
a further exercise of their intellectual power succeeded,
known afterward by the name of education, and man became
a different being. This expansiveness ofintellect gave him
more extended powers, and the weak triumphed over the
strong, in proportion as the cultivated qualities ofthe mind
of one man exceeded another, and a facility succeeded of
acquiring a larger share of property than his predecessors
originally possessed, and this gradually led to the formation
ofa new trait in his character, and society became divided
into rich and poor. This division paved the way for the
14.
introduction of ambition and avarice into the world, and
immediately suggested that in order to maintain power,
particular attention must be directed to the increase of
wealth; and hence he became a speculative being, which
principle, firmly established, Fore-knowledge was then
indispensible, as it offered the means of acquiring decided
superiority over the less enlightened portion of the human
race, and thus the results of the future would be an object
of intense interest, was identified with the most important
pursuits, and has so continued to the present time. Thus
I have endeavoured to trace the origin and progress of the
Science of Celestial Philosophy, from the earliest ages of
the world, during the existence of society in its most simple
state, and the means by which its principles became gradu
ally known and extended, and it now remains to show how
far their cultivation would tend to advantage in the present
age. -
1st. It would operate as a check to the ardent and preci
pitately speculative mind, by showing the probable issue
of any new undertaking or enterprise, by pointing out the
difficulties attending its progress, which a premature deci
sion had overlooked.
2d. To minds naturally timid and cautious it would
inspire confidence, from the Fore-knowledge that success
would ultimately attend them, and thus become an addi
tional spur to their exertions, or enable them to decide at
once to abandom it.
3d. To those persons labouring under an accumulation
of untoward events it would offer the consolation of know
ing that a period would arrive when the clouds of misfor
tune should pass away, and cheer them with the hope that
the sunshine of prosperity would again shed its bright beams
around their path, and thus inspire them with fortitude to
bear the present ills by the certainty of overcoming them;
SYNOPTICAL TABLE OF THE SYSTEM OF CELESTIAL PHILOSOPHY,
In which the Qualities of the Zodiacal Signs and of the Planetary Orbs therein are shown.
General Qualities when
the Planetary Orbs
are found therein.
Astronomical Characters
- - -
m -n- -
of theSigns oftheZodiac. T Ö II. Cö Q % m ! Vf - }%
Names. ARIES. TAURUS. GEMINI. CANCER. LEO. VIRGO. LIBRA, scorpio. sAGITARTUs | CapricoRN. Aquarius. PISCFS,
Cardinal, - Bicorporeal, Cardinal, ... Bicorporeal, Cardinal, - Bicorporeal, Cardinal, - Bicorporeal,
Descripti Fiery, Fixed, partaking of Watery, Fixed, partaking of Airy, Fixed, partaking of Earthy, Fixed, partaking of
cription. Moveable, Earth Tropical, Fier Moveable, Moist Moveable, Air
- Equinoctial. y. 8 & c= Moveable. y. Q & A. Equinoctial. - m & Wy Tropical. y. & & ).
Classification. Fixed. Bicorporeal or Common. Tropical and Equinoctial.
Ö Q * II TP % Co WP T -Q
TAURUS. L.E.O. SCORPIO. AQUARIUS. GEMINI. VIRGO. SAGITARIUS PISCES. CANCER. CAPRICORN. ARIES. LIBRA.
TRAITS OF CHARACTER.
Learning.
TRAITS OF CHARACTER.
Conversation and Manners.
TRAITS OF CHARACTER.
Success in the World.
LECTURE I.
Firm-patient-steady in pursuit of its object.
LECTURE II.
Variable—volatile, inclined toduplicity—amourous–
uncertain—speculative–subject to change-acute feel
ings-domestic misfortunes-unhappiness in friend
ships and attachments—and general unsettledness in
affairs.
LECTURE III.
Public distinction and notoriety– distinguished
honours-fame-elevation in life-connections with
persons of rank and fashion by inventions or actions
public institutions—nobility-government-military
law-arts and sciences.
Critical periods in Life,
from Five Years to
Sixty.
Planetary Orbs which
govern those periods
2 and
end of Life.
to the
5th 11th
\
17th
_/
21st
\_
Particular classifica- Meanly More noble, Persevering, Scientific, Enthusiastic—hasty-fretful—variable in opinion- From per- From per- | By or from | From per
tion of the Sign when gifted, but but not so but violent persevering, uncertain in temper—soon elated—soon depressed- sons con- sons ofrank, persons of sons of rank
the Planetary Orbs are | laborious laborious and but not so unfortunate in speculation-frequently removing– nected with of ancient rank; by and fashion,
found therein. and and revengeful. violent; sometimes liberal to excess—at other times rigidly government, families, violent Noblemen
- | persevering. persevering. more refine- parsimonious—particular in small matters—careless in with admi- elderly per- means, arbi- connected
1st. At the Birth. ment and affairs of importance—subject to extreme in joy or mistration of Sons, trary power, with Arts
- - -
intellectual sorrow—easily persuaded—liable to imposition—unfor- affairs in Govern- military and
2nd. At periods in the learning; tunate in writings, papers or law business-liable to high depart- ment, promotion, Scientific
course of life, by reason ardent. bodily hurts—mental derangement—and mischief from , ments, and Public warfare, Institutions,
of their annual motion. relations. general Institutions. and the
power in cultivation
legislation, of elegant
&c. Public accomplish
assemblies, ments.
&c.
General fortunate dispo
sition of the Orbs in @ € $ 3 * * # * }/ # $ }/ © # * | }/ § { & Q }/ H. '
the Sign. * H H None other are fortunate. }/ Q # 6
25th 30th 43d
\
35th 45th 50th 55th 60th
– –
2/
&
15
these are the advantages proposed by Prescience, and
I shall next present the reader with a Synoptical Table of
Qualities of the Signs of Zodiac and of the Planetary Orbs
when placed therein:—
I shall now proceed to a fuller explanation of the nature
and qualities of the Celestial Signs and Orbs than the pre
ceding Table affords, that being intended merely as an
assistance to the understanding of the reader, as also a
ready mode of reference when required.
First, then, the Twelve Celestial Signs are divided by
Astronomers into three qualities or kinds, four of which,
viz., Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius are termed fixed;
four are termed tropical and equinoctial, viz., Cancer,
Capricorn, Aries and Libra; and four bicorporeal or
common, which are Gemini, Virgo, Sagitary and Pisces,
and it is necessary to observe, each of these Signs are en
dowed with a different degree of action, according as the
Planetary Orbs may be longitudinally placed in them.
There is in nature, from the lowest degree of created living
matter, to the highest range of intellectual being, an evi
dent combination consisting of Three principles, which
complete by their union one perfect substance, and which
appear to be formed in the likeness of the Creator himself,
as a type of the union of the three divine attributes of
the Trinity; and man, who is the microcosm or lesser
world in himself, in like manner is compounded of three
substances, which, according to the philosophy of ancient
chemists, are salt, sulphur, and mercury; but according to
the Science of Celestial Philosophy, of the three qualities,
vested in the Zodiacal Signs, and to be as perfect as man
can exist in this imperfectstate should (astronomically con
sidered) be compounded of an equal share of the essential
qualities of Fixed, Common, Tropical, and Equinoctial
Signs; this is remarkably apparent from the nature of the
16
Trine,which is considered to be the most perfect Aspect,
from the circumstance of that ray dividing the circle in
three equal parts, the circumference of which being previ
ously arranged into twelve divisions, of thirty degrees each,
called Signs, and disposed in the order shown in the preced
ing Table; the Trine Aspect, then, is formed of one Sign of
each quality, which, by the meeting of the three points of
an equilateral triangle on the periphery of the circle in
which it is inscribed, give one Fixed or Common, and one
Tropical or Equinoctial Sign, which is considered to be the
most perfect and harmonious radiation that can possibly be
formed ; as for instance, r Q 1 8 mp Vf II in ax
gs mu 9é ; and so of the others. Now, from Astronomical
observation, as it seldom or ever happens the Planetary
Orbs are so distributed that an exact balance of Power
can exist at any required time, so it is as impossible to
meet with perfection or a complete union of those princi
ples in any Nativity requisite to produce an approxima
tion toward that desirable quality. I shall now in
quire more particularly into the intellectual qualities
of the four fixed signs, viz., 8 Q m and ::, and I
beg to be understood in this, as also the succeeding
Lectures, to speak of the quality of action only when
Planets are posited therein. Ptolemy in the 18th chapter
of Book III. of the Tetrabiblos, on the quality of the mind,
says “Fixed Signs make the mind just, uncompromising,
constant, firm of purpose, prudent, patient, industrious,
strict, chaste, mindful of injuries, steady in pursuing its
object, contentious, desirous ofhonour, seditious, avaricious,
and pertinacious.” And Cardan, in his Astrological
Aphorisms, speaking of fixed Signs, says “Fixed Signs
give learning, i.e. ability, energy, and perseverance in the
acquirement of knowledge in Arts and Sciences, studious
mess, deep speculation, slowness of speech, shrewdness,
17
-*-------- -------------->=======
great proficiency, and obstimacy.” My opinion is, that
remarkable configurations of the Planetary Orbs in fixed
Signs at the time of parturition or birth confer on the minds
of those individualssubject to their power, ability, and incli
nation to study, and to persevere in undertakings, and
therefore, Planets in Signs of that description give the most
durable intellectual faculties, and I find even the planets
Saturn and Mars so situated, are not unfavourable although
the qualities thus developed are frequently not of the most
pleasing cast; and it is of the highest importance in all
Nativities that the planet Mars should, at birth, be posited
in a fixed Sign for the period of life over which he presides,
viz. from 35 to 50 years of age is of the most active descrip
tion, and it materially depends upon the radical position of
that planet whether the results of those years will be favour
able or not; testimonies acting in accordance with the
radical position of that orb at birth likewise considered;
the Lunar Orb should also be placed in a fixed Sign, and if
forming a Trine or Sextile Aspect to the Solar Orb the
better, as it then indicates an harmonious foundation. The
planet Mercury is fortunately placed when in a fixed Sign,
as he confers a good understanding, and a retention of
memory, particularly beneficial, as well as convenient to its
possessors. Of all the fixed Signs : seems to be the best;
planets in that Sign confer a scientific turn of mind on
persons subject to the power of planets so situated; it is of
a nature less abrupt, especially when planets posited therein
are favourably aspected by others from the Signs Gemini
or Libra. The next in power appears to be the Sign Leo,
and planets in that Sigm generally indicate high spirits and
minds, and when favourably aspected by others, they confer
much nobleness of nature, but, generally speaking, are not
so studious or perseveringly inclined. The fixed Sign mt
follows next, and I have every reason to believe the planet
B
| 8
Jupiter is more favourably placed in that Sign than any
other planet. The remaining fixed Sign 8 is, in my
opinion, the least prominent, and the superior planets when
placed thereon produce effects less forcible than in the
others, and a lower grade of intellectual powers are indi
cated therefrom. The conjunction of the planets Jupiter
and Mars, in the sign Leo, is not good, it indicates a lofty
turn of mind; but without other positions of a favourable
description, its effects are by no means enviable; indeed,
the conjunction of Jupiter and Mars in either of the Zodi
acal Signs is, by experience, found to be detrimental to the
welfare of those individuals born under its power. I shall
now give the reader some examples from the positions of
the Planetary Orbs on the days of birth of a few distin
guished individuals, showing the effects of positions in the
Signs 8 Q m and ::, whose qualities are of a fixed descrip
tion, and, also, some in which planetary positions in these
Signs were wholly wanting:—
Samuel Johnson, Poet, \ ,
Sept. 18, 1749 . . . } M & 3 m • 2 H =
Five Planets fixed.
Our late Sovereign,George
IV. August 12, 1762. } t e o Q Q 6 m
Five Planets fixed.
Duke of York, August 16,
1763. . . . . .
Six Planets fixed.
His present Majesty, )
William IV. August 21, $ ), d Q Q
1765, . . . . . . .
Three Planets fixed.
Napoleon Buonaparte, Au
'") . m e : o a 8
Four Planets fixed.
Duke of Wellington, M
:") new a
Three Planets fixed.
} % o & Q 9 : Q @ m.
19
"#" " '} i e i = 1 a
Four Planets fixed.
Hon. Charles Fox, 1748, '2 e m / O Q H :
Six Planets fixed.
Lord Nelson, . . . . . d m h :
Two Planets fixed.
Sir Robert Peel, Feb. 6,
1788, . . . . .
Three Planets fixed.
I. W. Coke, Esq. May 6,
1753, eminent A: G) # 8
turist,. . . . •
Two Planets fixed. •
Earl Grey, March 13,1764, h 8 # *
Two Planets fixed.
* Lord Brougham,Septem
£" ..} k m & Q.
Two Planets fixed.
These examples are intended to illustrate in a cursory
manner the preceding remarks on the qualities impressed
on the mind when the Planetary Orbs are longitudinally
placed in Zodiacal Signs of a fix’d persevering quality, and
are taken from the astronomical positions on the days of
birth of the distinguished individuals therein enumerated.
The reader will observe I have taken up this subject upon
general principles, and will readily perceive much informa
tion may be gained from the circumstance of merely
knowing the days on which persons were born, and connect
ing therewith the situation or sphere of life in which they
are acting. I shall conclude this Lecture by observing,
the parent of his present Majesty had no planet in a fixed
sign, as also the unfortunate Louis XVI. of France, leaving
the student to draw his own conclusions, and to his private
experiments on the qualities of fixed Signs.
}o • =
* From the Horoscope.
20
Characters of the Planetary Orbs explained, which are
used in the preceding Lecture.
O Sol.
© Luna.
* Mercury.
9 Venus.
& Mars.
2/ Jupiter.
k Saturn.
H Herschel, or the Georgium Planet.
LECTURE II.
On the Nature and particular Qualities of the Four Zo
diacal Signs, Gemini, Virgo, Sagitarius, and Pisces, and
of the Effects produced by the Planetary Orbs when
posited therein.
IN the commencement of this Lecture, (as in the pre
ceding,) I refer the reader, for the foundation ofmy opinion
on the subject, to the 18th Chapterof Book III. of the Tetra
biblos of Ptolemy, page 159, wherein that Author, treating
of the qualities and effects generally produced by the
Planetary Orbs when placed in Bicoporeal Signs, expresses
himself in the following words. “Bicoporeal Signs render
the mind variable, versatile, not easy to be understood,
volatile and unsteady; inclined to duplicity, amorous, wily,
fond of music, careless, full of expedients, and regretful.”
And Cardan, in his remarks on the nature of these Signs
says, “Common signs (i. e. Gemini, Virgo, Sagitary, and
Pisces) give conversation and manners” by which I under
stand it to be the opinion of these Authors, that configura
tions in those Signs have been found to indicate, or produce
events (generally speaking) connected with remarkable
excitement of feeling. Violent attachments, jealousy,
* The translator, in a note on this passage, says, the Greek means “ peni
tent,” or “prone to repentance,” or “to subsequent regret.” And also “that
it is difficult to convey to the understanding of the reader the precise meaning
of the words of the text.” This remark is highly creditable to the Science, the
Author, and the Translator. I have long observed persons who were born
when the majority of the Celestial Orbs were so placed, to be of minds and
temperament perfectly indescribable.
22
- - -
agitation in domestic affairs, troubles and misfortune to the
mother, wife, husband, children, relatives, &c., also restless
ness of disposition, unsettledness of affairs, fondness of
novelty and change, subjectto enter into hasty speculations
of great risk, fertile in imagination, producing a rapid flow
of ideas, poetical, romantic, lively, eloquent and witty, ani
mated in conversation, uncertain in temper, soon depressed
in spirits, undecided in their actions, not liking close con
finement, or sedentary occupations or employment, often
removing their residences; and remarkable congresses or
meetings of the Planetary Orbs in these Signs, especially
when conjoined with the orb ofthe PlanetsSaturn and Mars,
are found to produce excesses in these qualities of an unfor
tunate description, such as violent and irrascible tempers,
unhappy and evil dispositions, great calamities in domestic
affairs, disappointment in private friendships, deaths, and
separations in families, unsuccessful speculations in the
world, scattering and loss of property, weakness of mind,
mental disorders, such as derangement of intellect, despair, a
dispositionto commit suicide,and liability to bodily hurts and
accidents. These unalienable “ lurking principles” which
grow with man’s growth, and increase with his strength,
generally develope themselves in a slight degree early in life,
in the form of temper; but as age advances, and circum
stances in the world contribute to changes in his relative
position in society, these qualities become more noticed, and
at length identified with all his actions andpursuits, forming
part of his very existence; of these indications, such as
relate to temper only, the study of himself, the rule of
conduct laid down for his observance in our Holy Scrip
tures, the precepts of philosophy,and the force of education,
may check, while on the contrary, such events which operate
upon him in individual connexion with the fortunes ofothers
who by ties of consanguinity, or sympathy, are bound to
23
him, together with those producing bodily affections, or
diseases to himself, have an operation scarcely to be guarded
against, much less overcome. Now, from attentive obser
vation, I consider it must readily occur to the Student by
this time that all the natural persevering strength of the
human mind appears concentrated in the observed proper
ties of the Fixed Signs, the effects of which has already
been treated of in the First Lecture, where it has been
shewn that configurations and positions of the Planetary
Orbs in those places of the Zodiac confer the most lasting
qualities, though they do not, in numberless instances,
produce the most prominent and publicly fortunate persons.
This is an anomaly which I shall now reconcile upon the
principles on which my System is founded. First, then, in
the preceding Lecture page 15, I have laid down as a general
axiom, that man, in the quality of his mind and action, is
(Astronomically speaking) compounded of certain portions
of the three qualities which the Twelve Celestial signs
appear to possess, but the quantities of such matter are
subject to constant variation. Secondly, the Student will
likewise discover, from this and the preceding Lecture, that
two of the three named qualities belong almost exclusively
to those affairs which depend on the developement of certain
mental powers and feelings. The third, then, has particular
reference to success in the world, and public notoriety. For
as the first quality is decidedly that of capability and perse
verance in the acquirement of knowledge, and the second
that of the facility of communicating it to others, it follows
then that the third should be appropriated to the production
ofthat desideratum, viz. Success in the World",which in that
case will stamp exertions with acknowledged stirling worth,
and thus individual merit becomes handed down to posterity
* See Lecture III., and the Synoptical Table, page 15.
24.
with fame and honour. In vain then it is that the mind
should possess enlarged ideas, unless the tongue can do her
office in communicating them intelligibly to others; and in
vain do these act in union with each other, unless certain
qualities exist calculated to bring into public estimation the
object of their combined powers. This quality I contend is
vested in the four remaining signs, Aries, Libra, Cancer,
and Capricorn, and without some of the Planetary Orbs
should be placed in those signs at birth, the labors of those
persons,however eminently gifted, will be cast into the shade.
Should it however happen at the time of the birth of indivi
duals, where these eminent positions, indicating success are
wanting, thatTropical or Equinoctial signs should be placed
on the angles ofthe horizon or meridian, at the hour of their
coming into existence, in such cases there will be some
probability of success, but of short duration, and nearly
confined to the time occupied by the transit of the
Planetary Orbs through the Tropical or Equinoctial Signs
thus situated at various periods during the course of their
lives. But to return to the subject which is the particular
object of this Lecture, I have always observed that persons
who happened to have several of the Planetary Orbs so
situated at their births were (generally speaking) of a good
natured turn of mind, unless violently agitated, then pas
sionate for a short time, uncertain, generous to a fault; at
other times mean, surmising and doubtful of the integrity
and intentions of their bosom friends; fretful and timorous,
and by no means happy persons; always involved in some
trouble or difficulty, from which they have not sufficient
energy or patience to extricate themselves; sometimes
elated, at others depressed; undecided in their movements;
feelingsparticularly acute, withoutdiscrimination; unhappy
in their attachments and domestic affairs; wife or husband
afflicted; trouble and unsettledness in the affairs of their
25
*
*- - * * -- - - --.
offspring; deaths, oftentimesjoined in marriage to a widow or
widower, encumbered with poor relatives, enthusiasts in
mind and in matters of religious affairs, swayed by popular
opinions and the eloquence of others: and if the Orb of the
planet Mars be in these Signs, and the Lunar Orb also, the
troubles and misfortunes in domestic affairs are increased,
separation by death or otherwise, danger from violence,
involvement in quarrels, subject to falls, hurts, and blows;
females liable to miscarriage; and if the Orbs of the planets
Saturn and Jupiter be there, lossof property from law pro
ceedings, trade, or speculation; if there should happen at
the time of birth of such individuals that some of the
Planetary Orbs should be placed in Tropical or Equinoctial
Signs, in such cases the affairs of those persons will be
publicly known, and will be dealt with according to the
sympathy or antipathy which may be thus excited; if not,
they will pine in obscurity, and thus suffer without public
notice or commiseration; much however depends on the
sphere of birth of such persons so situated, and of the
mixture of other qualities, which a careful consideration
will discover, and determine the excess which produces the
ruling passion or inmate principle on which the events in the
lives of those persons turn. These are the general properties
I have observed in the course of my experience to become
identified with Bicoporeal Signs, and one of the superior
Planetary Orbs, such as Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, is
often found to be productive of marked effects. I shall
now, in proof of what I have advanced, offer some exam
ples for the satisfaction of the Student and the curious
enquirer into the truth of the System of Prescience, from
the positions of the Planetary Orbs on the birth days of
persons of eminence, the circumstances of whose lives are
publicly known. I shall begin with the father of his present
Majesty, viz. George III, who was born June 4, 1738,
26
who had the Planetary Orbs Sol, Mercury, Saturn, and
Venus in the Bicoporeal Sign Gemini; the events which
followed that august personage in life, the family troubles,
the unsettledness of the national affairs, and his own mental
affliction, together with the personal danger to which he
was exposed several times in his life, shew how particularly
combinations of the Planetary Orbs in those signs act.
The unfortunate Louis XVI. of France, born August 23,
1754, who had the Solar Orb and Mars in the Bicoporeal
Sign Virgo, and the planetary orb Mercury, virtually by
his latitude placed in the same sign. Our late Majesty,
king George IV. who had the planetary orb of Venus in
the Sign Virgo, and that Sign rising in the East at his
birth. His unfortunate Queen, Caroline, born May 17,1768,
who had the planetary orb Mars, in the Bicoporeal Sign
Pisces, and that of Luna, in the Bicoporeal Sign Gemini.
Napoleon Bonaparte, born August 15, 1769, who had the
planetary orb of Mars, in the Bicoporeal Sign Virgo.
Lord Byron, the Poet, born January 22nd, 1788, who had
the orb of Jupiter placed in the Sign Gemini. Thompson,
the Poet, born September 11, 1700, who had at the time of
his birth the planetary orb Sol, Mercury, and Venus, in
the sign Virgo, and the orb of Mars in the Bicoporeal
sign Sagitary, and the planet Saturn, in the Bicoporeal
sign Pisces. Horatio Wiscount Nelson, so famed in the
annals of England’s Naval achievements on the day of
his birth, had the planetary orb Luna, and Venus in the
sign Virgo, and that of Jupiter in the sign Sagitary; the
Right Honourable Charles James Fox, the great Statesman,
had the planetary orb Mars in the Bicorporeal sign Pisces;
her late Royal Highness the Princess Charlotte ofWales had
the planetary orb ofSaturn in the Bicorporeal sign Gemini,
and the Lunar Orb in the sign Sagitary; the late Lord
Chancellor Brougham who, it appears, from examination of
27
the positions of the Planetary Orbs on the day of birth,
given in print," has the benevolent orb of Jupiter in
the Bicorporeal sign Virgo, with the Lunar and Solar
Orb, and that of Herschel in the Sign Gemini: these
examples, I trust, will be sufficient to enable the student to
form some opinion respecting the traits of character, and
of the quality of action, as also the nature of Events which
chequer the lives of such individuals, and which, from an
attentive comparison with their private memoirs, will, I
hope, present some dawnings of truth, easily attained from
merely taking an extract from an Astronomical Ephemeris
of the daily motions of the Planetary Orbs for the year and
day on which the birth took place. Having proceeded thus
far with the indications of the Planetary Orbs, when placed
in the fixed signs of the Zodiac Taurus, Leo, Scorpio,
and Aquarius; and in the Bicorporeal signs Gemini,
Virgo, Sagitary, and Pisces, I shall now present the
reader, in the ensuing Lecture, with an account of the
Qualities which appear particularly to belong to the Four
remaining Signs, viz., Tropical and Equinoctial, Cancer,
Capricorn, Aries, and Libra.
* See Horoscope, No. 17.
LECTURE III.
Of the Nature and Qualities of the Tropical and Equi
noctial Signs of the Zodiac, Cancer, Capricorn, Aries,
and Libra, and the Effects produced by the Planetary
Orbs when posited therein, at the Births of Individuals.
IN the course of the two preceding Lectures, I hope I
have delivered, in language sufficiently intelligible to the
uninformed reader, my particular views of the influential
powers of the Planetary Orbs when placed longitudinally
in the fixed and Bicorporeal Signs of the Zodiac in all the
variety of their operation on the mental and physical
power of man, which from my own experience I have
observed to attend such positions, wherever it has happened
they have exceeded in number, or power, the required
proportion necessary to his individual share of happiness,
as also his well being in society. I shall in this Lecture
proceed to explain the nature and qualities of the Four
remaining Signs of the Zodiac, known to Astronomers by
the names of Tropical and Equinoctial, one of which from
its situation in the northern semi-circle of the earth's orbit
is called the Tropic of Cancer, and the other, from its situ
ation in the southern semi-circle of the earth's orbit is
called the Tropic of Capricorn, the former of which, from
the apparent motion ofthe Solar Orb, produces the greatest
length of day in our hemisphere,and the latter the shortest;
of the remaining two Signs, called Equinoctial, viz. Aries
and Libra. The sign Aries is placed at the commence
ment of the northern semi-circle, and the sign Libra at the
commencement of the southern, and are called Equinoctial
29
from the circumstance of the nights being of equal length,
when the Solar Orb, by his apparent motion, is found in
those places, these Signs divide the circle into four equal
parts, and are termed angular, consisting of thirty degrees
each, and it is of the effects of the Planetary Orbs, when
placed in these angular positions I am now about to speak;
and I have to refer the reader, as before, to the 18th
Chapter, Book III. of the Tetrabiblos of Ptolemy, who
there gives his opinion of their qualities in the following
words. “Thus, the Tropical Signs generally dispose the
mind to enter much into political matters, rendering it
eager to engage in public and turbulent affairs, fond of
distinction, and busy in Theology; at the same time, inge
nious, acute, inquisitive, inventive, speculative, and studi
ous of Astrology" and divination.” Thus far Ptolemy; and
Cardan, in his Astrological Aphorisms says, “Tropical and
Equinoctial Signs give success in the world.”
I here consider it requisite to call the reader's particular
attention to the above passage extracted from the Tetra
biblos, on account of that learned Author not having
mentioned the Equinoctial Signs, Aries and Libra therein.
This I expect is an omission in the original text, and I am
the more inclined to persevere in that opinion, because I
find, in another part of the same work,+ when speaking of
the effects produced in mundane affairs by Eclipses of the
Luminaries, he has these words; “The Equinoctial Signs
further indicate the circumstances liable to happen in eccle
siastical concerns, and in religious matters: the Tropical
* This peculiar trait in the character of Tropical and Equinoctial Signs
coming direct to us from the pen of so distinguished an author as Claudius
Ptolemy, which was observed by him 17 hundred years since, ought to entitle
it to some notice, as also to prove how much the profession of the science was
an object of public notice and estimation at the time that writer flourished.
+ Book II. Chap 8, page 82. -
*- - *
30
Signs give warning of changes in the atmosphere, and in
political affairs.” The Student may here observe a marked
distinction between the qualities of the Tropical, and of
the Equinoctial Signs, the effects of which are developed in
various ways. Now, from experience, it appears to my
apprehension, that all persons who happen to be born when
there are a considerable number of the Planetary Orbs
placed in the Tropical or Equinoctial Signs of the Zodiac,
have (according to their situation in life) a remarkable
share of good fortune tending to fame or public motoriety,
more extensive introductions in society than the descrip
tion of persons particularly alluded to in the former Lec
tures, and which gradually lead to the developement of
certain abilities, or amiable qualities, useful or ornamental,
or to the public recognition of such as are found to be
contrary to social order, and of well regulated communi
ties, which last-mentioned class arises from the number of
configurations of the Planetary Orbs of an evil disposed
quality, such as the orbs of Saturn and Mars with that
of Mercury, without the assistance of the harmonious
aspects of the benevolent orbs of Jupiter or Venus, while
the former will be observed to contain a proportionate
mixture of each; with these considerations it is also neces
sary to notice there are particular differences arising from
the sphere of birth, circumstances in life, and education of
individuals, which have a decided effect on the active
motive or principle; from these premises, the general
qualities of fortunate configurations in Tropical and Equi
noctial Signs appear to be these—good fortune, fame,
eminent friends, powerful interest, respect from persons
with whom they are connected; while, on the other hand,
combinations of the planetary orbs Saturn, Mars, Luna,
and Mercury, alone produce events of an unhappy descrip
tion,such as misfortune, powerful enemies, public exposure
31
and ignominy, and the actions of such individuals held up
to public notice, and the contempt of the world in general.
These are the extremes which appear to attend evil com
binations. -
I shall next proceed to the explanation more at length
of the particular events of a favourable description,
which these Signs of the Zodiac, when the Planetary
Orbs are placed therein, generally produce, and in the first
place the northern tropical sign Cancer seems, from ex
perience, to offer indications of elevation or introductions
connected with government and political affairs, tending to
bring such individuals into note somewhat early in life, com
mencing at the age of twenty-five or thereabouts; and all
persons who happen to have the superior Planetary Orbs so
posited, are likely to become introduced to the publicin some
way or other about that period. Also the Planetary Orbs
placed in the latter degrees of the sign Gemini, and the
beginning of the sign Leo, produce events approximating
somewhat to those in the sign Cancer, but not so eminently
powerful; the astronomical reason is, that the northen tropic
is the most elevated point in the ecliptic in our hemisphere,
and consequently nearer the vertical point or Zenith, and,
therefore, like the Solar Orb, when the days are at their
greatest length, the actions of such individuals then born
shine forth with superior lustre, and as fixed stars of the first
magnitude continue the wonder and admiration of succes
sive ages, long after the families of such distinguished
characters have become extinct, consigned to oblivion, and
mingled with their native dust. In this case I feel I cannot
too often impress on the mind of the Student that much
of the extent of their power will certainly depend upon the
sphere of life in which their operation consists, and, what
ever that may happen to be, they will become distinguished
characters. I shall enumerate here a few examples from
32
the situations of the Planetary Orbs on the birth days of
public characters of some eminence, who were, and are
still connected with public life, fortunately, or otherwise,
leaving the Student to search his Chronology, and to his
private inquiries among the circle of his friends for further
satisfaction and proof; I shall begin with the Emperor
Napoleon, who had at his birth the planetary orbs Saturn
and Venus in the tropical sign Cancer, and the Lunar orb
in Capricorn; his Grace the Duke of Wellington, who has
the orbs of Saturn and Mars in Cancer, and Mercury in
Aries; the present Emperor of Russia, who has the solar
Orb, and that of Mercury in the Sign Cancer; the present
King of Prussia, William III., has only the planetary orb
Mercury, placed in the sign Cancer; the King of Sardinia,
the Lunar orb, and that of Jupiter, in Cancer; Mahmoud II.
the Solar orb, in Cancer;" Earl Grey, who has the Lunar
orb in Cancer, and the orb of Venus in Aries; Oliver
* I here wish to call the reader's attention to this fact namely, out of the
twelve reigning Sovereigns in Europe, there are only five who have the
Tropical Sign Cancer occupied by the Planetary Orbs at their birth, which
are as follow, Emperor of Russia 2, viz., Sol and Mercury. The King of
Prussia 1, Mercury. The King of the Netherlands 1, the Lunar Orb. The
King of Sardinia 2, Luna and Jupiter. Mahmoud II, the Solar Orb: while
the Emperor Napoleon, and the Duke of Wellington, had each 3. This may
account for the extraordinary public eminence of those persons, and furnish
some useful hints for the Student's consideration. It will however in this
instance become requisite for his assistance in forming a parallel between these
two distinguished cotempories (whose sphere of action opposed to each other
was brought so particularly into public notice at the time of that memorable
conflict on the plains of Waterloo) to direct his attention tothese astronomical
facts, that on the day of birth of the victorious Wellington, two of the superior
Orbs, viz. that of Saturn and Mars occupied the northern Tropical Sign
Cancer, while on that of Napoleon, the same Sign was occupied by only one,
viz. Saturn, and the inferior orb of Venus. By the application of the funda
mental principles of the Science of Celestial Philosophy, the superiority of the
former over the latter is clearly demonstrated, and incontestibly proves to
what extent the general welfare of whole nations, the honour of their Insti
–
33
Cromwell, who was born when the orb of Jupiter was
placed in the tropical Sign Cancer, and that of Saturn in
the equinoctial Sign Libra; Queen Caroline, who had the
same positions; the Hon. Sir R. Peel, the orb of Mars in
Cancer;—Coke, Esq. the famed agriculturist, the orb of
Jupiter in Cancer; Lord Byron, the Poet, the Lunar Orb
and that of Mars in Cancer; and the orb of Mercury in
Capricorn; the parent of his present Majesty, the orbs of
Jupiter and Mars in Aries.
I shall now speak more particularly of the effects of the
Planetary Orbs when conjoined in the southern Tropic,
called Capricorn; and from my observation the operations of
that Sign are of a less prominent quality, the Events indi
cated happen at a later period in the lives of those persons
who (from circumstances connected with the positions of
the Planetary Orbs at their births) are more immediately
under the power of that sign and they seldom come much
into public notice till after thirty years of age. They are
(generally speaking) a class of persons who in some way
become connected with government, public affairs, or the
management of business; ofthat class but few rise to offices
where the power of life and death is vested in their hands,
unless from their sphere of birth they are entitled to it.
The Astronomical reason is this; the southern Tropic is
that point in the heavens in which the Solar Orb appears to
acquire the least meridian altitude, and the days in the
northern latitude are then at the shortest; but persons born
under that influence will still be fortunate, though for
reasons before stated, less distinguished, let their sphere of
tutions, the success of their conquests, &c. become identified with the posi
tions of the Celestial Orbs at the births of their monarchs, as also at those of
such distinguished persons to whom the highest offices of state are entrusted,
whether Civil, Military, or Naval.
C
34
birth be what it may, as also the Planetary Orbs in the
latter degrees of the Sign Sagitary and the beginning of
Aquarius. The latter degrees of the sign Gemini, and the
beginning of the sign Leo will bear resembance to such
qualities, but not so remarkable, and therefore, will pro
duce characters of less public eminence. It now remains to
treat of the qualities of the Planetary Orbs when placed in
the Equinoctial Signs Aries and Libra, which Signs, in my
opinion, indicate success in the world connected with the
Sciences, Law, Public Institutions, &c. also matters more
immediately concerned with the Civil Department, parti
cularly where the Sign Libra is concerned. The Equi
noctial Sign, which is called Aries, seems more connected
in its operations with ambition and pride, absolute power,
warlike feeling, high spirit, &c.; in this case I refer to the
geniture of king George III, who had the orbs Jupiter
and Mars in the sign Aries. Oliver Cromwell, who had
the orb of Mars also in the sign Aries. His late Majesty
George IV. who had the orb of Saturn in Aries. His
Grace the Duke of Wellington who has the orb of Mercury
in Aries. Louis Philippe of France, who has the orb of
Jupiter in the sign Aries. Leopold I. the Lunar orb in
Aries. Ferdinand II. the orb of Jupiter in Aries. Also
Mahmud II. the orb of Jupiter in the sign Aries.
The reader will no doubt make some remarks on the
circumstance of the paucity of positions of the Planetary
Orbs in the signs Aries and Cancer on the birth days of
the present reigning monarchs of Europe, and which, in
my opinion accounts, in a great measure, for the peculiar
state of political affairs since the fall of Napoleon; and I
shall now present him with an anylectical view of the Celes
tial Orbs occupying the different Zodiacal Signs at the
births of these distinguished persons, so disposed as to
35
display the combinations of the three general qualities
which are the subject of these Lectures:
DIsPosition of THE CELESTIAL ORBs.
Monarchs. Tropical & Equinoctial Fixed Signs. Common Signs.
William IV. King of Uj'.
• 2. 3. -
England, . - '? H Q Q & 2/ 3. * * *
Adelaide, Queen of \ . -
of England, . . #2 * © 5. H K Q & Q 1. '
Louis Philippe, King !3. }/ Q) # 3. H & 9 2. R O
of France, .
Nicholas I. *}2. G) # 2. Q @ 4. H K M &
of Russia,
Maria Isabella Lou
isa, Queen ofSpain, }3.2/ Q) # 3. H K Q 2. d ?
Maria de Gloria,
Queen of Portugal, 1. Q 4. 2/ ? # CD 3. H R 3
Frederick Wm. III.
King of Prussia, #2. # Q 4. Hk 3 Q 2. / ?
William I. King of
the '. ! 1. Q 3. H}l 3 4. Q & Q #
Leopold I. King of
Belgium, . . . $3 8 ° 1. H 4. K. Q Q
Frederick VI. King
of Denmark,. . . 2. }/ # 2. H G) 4. k d ? Q
Charles XIV. King of
Sweden & Norway,
}
} |. " 5. 3 Q 2 # Q 2. K. 2/
Francis II. "'s 6 Q 3. HO # 2. K. Q
}
}
of Austria, . .
3. H Q $ 2. / Q 3. K. G. G.)
Gregory XVI. Pope,
Charles Amadeus, ) 2. 2! O 4. Q & Q Q 2. H #
King of Sardinia, .
Ferdinand II. King
of Naples & Sicily,
Mahmud II. Ottoman
Empire, . . . .
4.2/ Q 9 @ 2. H # 2. R &
4. H / Q @ 3. K. d: # 1. Q
38 49 41
By this calculation it appears there are 49 positions of
36
--- --------------------------
--
the Celestial Orbs in Fixed Signs, 41 in Common Signs,
and only 38 in Signs conferring public fame and notoriety,
which last number falling below the required proportion",
is a considerable drawback to their popularity in general
affairs, while the excess of these qualities, of a fixed de
scription, indicate the cultivation of such matters apper
taining to sciencs and learning, and the qualities of a more
secluded or retired description connected with the internal
improvement and welfare of their states, the cultivation of
the Arts, and the adopting of a more cautious policy in
their measures. In the preceding part of this Lecture, I
have advanced that the equinoctial sign Aries seemed more
connected with ambition, absolute power, and warlike
operations, while the sign Libra seemed more connected
with civil institutions; and in applying these observations
to the examples before us, it appears that, out of the 128
positions of the Planetary Orbs, the birth-days of these
sixteen illustrious persons, there are only 17 to be found
placed in the signs Aries and Cancer, and not one with
either of the superior orbs, Saturn and Mars so posited, and
but threef who happen to have the superior orb Jupiter in
either of the particular situations alluded to; while there
are 11 positions in the equinoctial sign Libra, which is
occupied in all the examples by the benevolent orbs of
either Jupiter, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna; this, in
my opinion, astronomically accounts for the suspension of
war and bloodshed in Europe, and the state of calm (com
paratively speaking) enjoyed in public affairs, compared
with the period previous to the overthrow of Napoleon, and
the General Peace of 1815.
As an object of particular interest to the Student, I
recommend him to turn his attention to the positions of
* See page 15.
+ Viz. the King of Sardinia, Naples, and Mahmud II.
37
the Celestial Orbs on the birth-day of the present Emperor
of Russia, and to take into consideration what I have said
of positions in Tropical Signs; he will find the Solar Orb,
and that of Mercury, in the northern tropical sign Cancer,
while the orbs of Saturn in Mars appear longitudinally
disposed in the Bicorporeal signs Gemini and Sagitary; but
from their declination and latitude virtually placed in the
signs Cancer and Capricorn, thus occupying each Tropic.
These positions, to that portion of my readers particularly
interested in political affairs, will offer some important indi
cations which a careful analysis will develope. I shall now
quote some few examples from the positions of the Celestial
Orbs on the birth-days of persons of public eminence, of
different periods and countries connected with the Civil
Departments in Society, Religion, Arts, &c. Earl Grey has
the orbs of Herschel and Venus in the sign Aries; Lord
Brougham the orbs of Venus and Mercury in Libra; the Rt.
Hon. C. Fox had the orb of Mercury in the sign Capricorn; :
Sir R. Peel has the orb of Mars in Cancer; the Rev. Dr.
Irving had the orbs of Jupiter and Mars in Libra; Regi
omontanus (the Astronomer), had the orbs of Luna, Mars,
Sol, and Venus, in the sign Cancer; Vincent Wing (the
Astronomer) had the orbs of Sol and Mercury in Aries, the
the sign Lunar Orb in Capricorn, and the orb ofJupiter vir
tually placed in Aries; Leighbourn (the Mathematician)had
the orbs of Mars and Mercury posited in the equinoctial sign :
Libra at his birth; Cardinal Richlieu had the orb of Saturn
in Aries and the orb of Mercury in Libra; Cardinal Maza
rine had the Solar Orbin Cancer, and the orbs ofJupiter and
Mars in Libra; Archbishop Laud had the Solar Orb and
Mercury in Libra; Bishop Hall had the Solar Orb, and that
of Mercury in Cancer; Archbishop Usher had the orb of
Jupiter, Sol, and Luna in the sign Capricorn; Henry West
Betty (the famed Roscius) has the orbs of Saturn and
38
Luna in the sign Aries, and those of Jupiter, Venus, and
Mercury, in the equinoctial sign Libra; Varley (the emi
ment Artist) had the orb of Venus in Libra; Harris (the
aéronaut) had the orb of Saturn in Aries, and that of
Jupiter in Libra, with the lunar orbin Cancer; the Princess
Olive of Cumberland had the Solar Orb, and that of Luna
and Mercury in Aries; Stiff (the Astrologer) who had the
orb of Mars in Libra, and that of Jupiter in Aries; Raphael
who had the orb of Mars in Aries, and the orbs of Sol and -
Mercury in the latter degrees of the sign Pisces. These
examples, taken indiscriminately from the birth-days of
Public Characters which havecome to my notice will, I trust,
be a sufficient guide to the Student and enquirer in these
researches after fundamental truths. I shall now make some
remarks on the qualities of Tropical and Equinoctial Signs,
with regard to their operation in the affairs of the ladies who
have the Celestial Orbs thus prominently and fortunately
placed, and on this occasion we have to take into consider
ation the situation, or place in society which they in general
hold, and which precludes them from filling high offices in
the State; or where absolute power is publicly vested in their
hands, except in case of Royalty itself, yet from the peculiar
circumstances in which they may happen to be placed,
either by education, rank, mental energies, or personal
attractions, have considerable interest in public affairs.
Many of them form connections with families of the highest
distinction, are thus introduced into societies where
public measures are discussed by the parties interested in
these results, receiving particular attention from the male
sex, especially those ladies who at their births happen to
have the equinoctial sign Libra occupied by the Celestial
Orbs; they have thus an opportunity of expressing their
opinions, and thus it is that female interest has had much
to do with the Affairs of State in all ages, and, indeed, all
39
---
others of particular moment. Females of this class will be
much engaged in dress, ornamental acquirements, Liter
ature, public company, and will form valuable friendships,
generally marry well," and are fortunate persons.
I shall conclude this Lecture with a List of fifty nativi
ties of Illustrious Persons whose names appear in the
history of the “Olden Times,” extracted from Gadbury's
Collectio Genetarum, 1661, some of which were unfortu
nate, but all public characters; and shall, for the informa
tion of the Student, give him the number of Orbs placed in
the different Signs which have been the subject of the three
preceding Lectures, leaving to himself the investigation of
the minute circumstances connected with their lives and
actions:
Tropical & Equinoctial Signs. Fixed Signs. Common Signs.
1 Nero, Roman
''}2 • * 4. k \l 7 & 1. Q
2 Alexander the Q
Great . . #2 @ 9 3. K. 2/ 2. & ©
3 Henry VI. K.
£}2 b : 3. }/ d @ 2. G) #
4 Henry VIII.
# " 32 @ • 2. h : 3. l & 9
5 Edward VI. -
'' '')2 oe 3 is 2.
6 Mary, Queen
#9"}. 2. }/ O 4. R & G)
7 Elizabeth, do. 3. . . ; 1. Q 3. }l & G)
8 J: Ki
''}; we 4 3 •
9 Charles I. do. 1. © 1. K. 5.2/ d ? § Q
10 Henry, Duke
of Gloucester, $5.2/ Q) $ Q 1. k. 1. Ó
died young
* This must be understood when there happens to be but few of the Celes
tial Orbs then placed in Bicorporeal signs. See Lecture II.
40
11 L d Eli Tropical & Equinoctial. Fixed Signs. Common Signs.
ady 1Za
£}5, , so • 0. 2. \l #
12 Princess Roy
al, eldest D. # 2. / Q. 4. R & G) # 1. 9
of Charles I. .
13 James, Duke
of Richmond $ 1. Q 3. 21 9 @ 3. * g :
and Lennox .
14 Henry II. K.
of France . 36 so • 0. 1 :
15 Henry III. do 4, 2 & G) # 3. # 9 @ 0.
16 HenryIV. do. 5. 2 & Q # € 1.9 1. 2
17 Anne, Queen
of Hungary #2 * * 2. Q @ 3. 3 } :
18 Maria de Me- -
dicis, Queen of $ 1. 2/ 3. G) # 9 3. W. & ©
. France . . .
19 Sebastimus,K.
of Portugal' 32 4. & G) # CD 1. '
20 Gustavus A
dolphus, King # 1. # 4. k \l & Q 2. Q @
of Sweden . .
21 Frederick III.
Emperor of #3. ". Q # 3. I d' O 1.9
Germany . -
22 Louis XIII.
*''}8 ice 3, b & 9 1. #
23 Carolus Au
gustus, King $2.2/ d. 4. K. G.) Q @ 1. §
of Sweden . .
24 Frederick, K. - - -
of Denmark . 3. G) # CD 4. k \l & 9
25 Philip IV. K.
'''. $2. }/ Q) 1. 3 4. K. 2 # O
26 Louis XIV.
K. of France . 4. k \l 9 @ 3. & G) #
27 A Prince of -
Spain, :* k \l & 2. § { 2. Q @
young).
41
Tropical & Equinoctial. Fixed Signs. Common Signs.
28 Charles Gus- -
}.}! # 5. R & G) Q @
tavus II. King
of Sweden . .
29 Thomas Earl - *
of Strafford . #2 k 2/ 4. & G) # CD 1.9
30 Earl of Essex 1. 2/ 4. Q 2 #Q 2. K. G.
simirus, King
of Poland . . .
32 Charles Le
onurdus #
G) # CD 4. k \l & 9
*
31 Johannes Ca- }3
tenson, a Ge
neral in the
Swedish army
33 Lord Francis
Williers . . .
34 John Picus,
Earl of Miran
dula . . . .
35 Christianus,
King of Den
mark . . .
36 William of
Nassau, P. of
}
!
|
}
k \l 3 Q Q & ©
K. G.) 2. 2 # 3 & # e.
}! 4. k & # Q 2. Q Q
3. k & Q 2. / ? 2. # Q
2. 2 Q 3. l Q @ 2. 3 #
37 Prince Mau
rice, of Hun
gary and Bo
hemia . •
38 Augustus, E
lector of Sax
7
2
1.
4. b 3 & # 2. le 1, 2
3. * g Q 2. G) @ 2. 2 #
ony . . . .
39 Maximilian I. 4. Q Q Q # 2. & © 1. \l
* • 2. \l © 3. K. G.) #. 2. d ?
41 Emanuel, D.
of Sabaudia, 1. * 4. b > 3 > 2. Q
(died young). - -
42
Tropical & Equinoctial Fixed Signs. Common Signs.
42 Francis Les- Signs.
diguerins
£ of #3. "I Q $ 3, b & # 1 e
France . . .
43 Marc Anto
mio Columna,
Constable toX-1. © 4. k \l & # 1.9
the Queen o -
Naples . . . .
44 Leonora Ur
sina, Duchess $2
Sfortia . . .
45 Don John of}
Austria . . .
. K. G.) 3. M & 9 2. # e.
1 k 3. 3 Q @ 3. G) \l #
46 George Wil
liers, Duke of $2. R O . . . . . . . 5. }l & Q 9 #
Buckingham.
47 James Duke
of Hamilton .
41 Pr. Charles,
son of Charles
'd £2, b & 3. M # 9 2. Q @
}3. Qe 2. d ? 2. l ;
fancy . . -
49 Lady Anne,
daughter of
Č'I died #8 b Qe 1. 2/ 3.2/ ? #
in infancy.
50 George Duke
of £}4. k Q $ @ 1. )! 2. 3 G)
Total . . . 126 125 99
Tropical and
Equinoctial } 126
Fixed . . . . . . . 125
Common. . . . . 99
Sum . . . 350
Divide by 7, the
Number of Planets, $ 50, the number of Nativities.
leaves in Quotient . .
43
My readers will, no doubt, observe, in the foregoing
examples, the preponderance of configurations in Tropical
and Equinoctial Signs; and also that the planet Herschel
is not inserted, my time not allowing me an opportunity
of calculating his place, which omission I hope they will
eXCuSe. -
LECTURE IV.
On the general Properties of the Twelve Celestial
Mansions, denominated Houses, and the Events indi
cated at various periods in the Lives of Individuals, by
the Transit or Passage of the Celestial Bodies through
that portion of their Orbits, comprised in each of the
Twelve mentioned Divisions.
THAT it has been the constant practice of all Professors
of the Astral art, to dispose of the Celestial Orbs and the
Twelve Signs of the Zodiac, in a Figure or Scheme, divided
into Twelve Parts, called Houses; (see page 9,) is perfectly
well known, and that there appears to have been consider
able difference in the methods employed in regulating the
precise quantity contained in each space, is also perfectly
understood; but setting aside discussion on this point, I
wish merely to show the method generally in use at this
period, which is that which assigns an equal division of the
Diurnal and Nocturnal spaces, or times, in twelve parts;
and therefore by the rotary motion of the Earth, from
West to East, the Sun, Moon, and Planets appear to our
sight to move in circles from East to West, which circum
stance no doubt led to the notion, in the early ages of the
world, that the Earth was the centre of our System.
And as this principle of dividing the Heavens is
perfectly well known to the Students of the present day,
there needs no further comment. I shall therefore proceed
to show the diligent enquirer into truth, and the stranger
to the principles of the Celestial Science, how to perform
this important operation in an easy manner, for any Lati
45
tude, by the Celestial Globe, should he happen to possess
one, and if not, he can procure a Celestial Planisphere
from the Author of this Work, which will, in one minute,
present him with the Face of the Heavens, for any required
time, sufficiently correct for general purposes, confined to
the Latitude of England only.
Tb Erect a Figure of the Heavens by the Celestial Globe,
for any required Day and Hour; for any place in Europe,
from Forty degrees, to Sixty degrees of Latitude.
Seek the Sun's Longitude for the day required on the
Horizontal frame of the Globe.” And having found his
corresponding place in the Ecliptic on the Globe, bring
that place so found, to the brazen Meridian, and set the
hour of twelve on the Index to that point; elevate the
Pole to the given Latitude, and the Globe is then rectified;
bring the hour of the day and minute required to the
Meridian, allowance being previously made for difference
between the clock and the Sun, by addition when the clock
is slow, and substraction when the clock is fast, and observe
what degree and minute of the Ecliptic is passing thereon,
and that will be the sign and degree, which at that time,
occupies the Cusp of the Tenth House, and the degrees
and minutes of the Equator, answering thereto, is the
Right Ascension of that point; keeping the Globe in the
same position, observe what degree of the Ecliptic is just
rising above the Horizon, and that will be the Zodiacal
place of the Ascendant or First House, whose oblique As
cension is the degree of the Equator rising at the same
time, and is equal to the Right Ascension of the meridian
before found increased by the addition of Ninety degrees.—
Next add Thirty degrees to the Right Ascension of the
* Or when great exactness is required, the solar place must be taken from
an Astronomical Ephemeris for the year given.
46
Tenth, and the sum is the oblique Ascension of the
Eleventh House; and to find the point of the Ecliptic, which
should be placed on the Cusp, or division line of that
House, take from the table annexed its Polar elevation,and
depress the Globe, till you obtain the required number of
elevation; then bring the number of degrees and minutes
of the Equator, answering to its oblique Ascension, to the
Horizon, and the degree and minute of the Ecliptic, rising
at the same time will be the Longitude, which should be
placed on its Cusp, to the oblique Ascension of the
Eleventh; add 300 more and the sum will be the oblique
Ascension of the twelth House; and to find the degrees and
minutes of the Ecliptic to be placed on its Cusp, taking
from the Table aforesaid the Pole thereof; elevate the
Globe till you have obtained the required position, and the
point of the Ecliptic, arising therewith, will be the Lon
gitude at that time arising on the Cusp of the Twelfth
division; to obtain the degree of the Ecliptic, occupying
the Cusp of the Second division, add thirty degrees to the
oblique Ascension of the Ascendant, or First House, and
taking from the mentioned Table, the Polar elevation,
which is the same as that of the Twelfth, the degree of the
Ecliptic answering thereto, will show the degree and minute
which should be placed on its Cusp; next, to obtain the
degree of the Ecliptic occupying the Cusp of the Third
House, add thirty degrees more to the oblique Ascension
of the Second, and the sum is the oblique Ascension of the
Third, and depressing the Globe to the Polar elevation
found in the Table, the Cusp will be obtained as in the
others; lastly, having thus obtained the Cusps of the Six
divisions, viz:—From the Tenth to the Third, inclusive,
the others are easily found, as the signs, degrees, and
minutes, opposite thereto, will be their places without
further trouble. It will be necessary for the sake of such
47
persons, who may not be conversant with astronomical cal
culations, to shew the manner in which the Celestial Signs
are counted.
T Ö II g; Q mp in mu , ! Vf £ 36
0 1 2 3 4 5, 6, 7 8 9 10 11
Therefore the opposite Signs, may be readily found by
adding six to the number of that Sign, whose opposite you
seek; and if the total exceed Twelve, substract Twelve from
the sum, and the remainder will show the answer required.
I here annex the Polar elevations of the Cusps of the
Houses, in which the Student must bear in mind the Pole
of the 1st, or Ascendant, is always the Latitude of the place
for which the Figure is erected or formed.
POLAR ELEVATIONS,
From 40 Degrees to 60; Latitude North or South.
Latitude, Polar Elevation. Polar Elevation.
N. or S. 11th. & 3rd. Houses. - 12th. & 2nd.
40 15 52 . . . 29 33
41 16 25 . . . 30 25
42 . . . 16 59 . . . 31 22
43 . . . 17 36 . . . 32 16
44 18 13 . . . 33 13
45 . . . 18 50 . . . 34 ll
46 . . . . 19 28 . . . 35 9
47 . . . 20 7 . . . 36 8
48 . . . 20 49 . . . 37 8
49 . . . 21 38 . . . . .38 10
50 . . . 22 17 . . . 39 ll
5] . . . 23 4. . . . 40 16
52 . . . 23 51 . . . 41 20
53 . . . 24 40 . . . 42 26
54 . . . 25 34 . . . 43 32
55 . . . 26 29 . . . 44 41
48
Latitude. Polar Elevation. Polar Elevation.
N. or S. 11th. & 3rd. Houses. 12th. & 2nd.
56 . . . 27 25 . . . 45 51
57 . . . 28 23 . . . 47 0
58 . . . 29 26 . . . 48 13
59 . . . 30 30 . . . 49 26
60 . . . 31 39 . . . 50 42
Polar Elevation Polar Elevation
9th and 5th. 8th and 6th.
ExAMPLE.
Tb Erect a Figure of the Heavens for January 1st. 1835,
10" A. M. apparent Time, for the Latitude of London,
51° 32' by the Celestial Globe. -
First obtain the sun’s longitude by the Ephemeris, or
wanting that, (the horizon circle of the Globe;) the true
longitude reduced to the time given is Wr 10° 20'; the
clock is faster than the sun four minutes nearly, which
substracted from the given time leaves 9" 56 A. M. Seek
wf 10° 20' so on the Ecliptic of the globe, and bring that
to the meridian and turn the Index till the hour of 12 in
tersects it; elevate the Pole till 51° 32 appear on the
horizon, and the globe is then rectified for the day and
latitude. Next turn the globe on its axis till 9 hours and
56 minutes cuts the meridian, and then fix it, and the face
of the Heavens is, at that time, then represented; the
degree of the ecliptic directly under the meridian will be
f 11 degrees 49 minutes, which is the Cusp of the 10th
House, and the degrees of the Equator counted carefully,
will be 250 degrees 15 minutes, which is the Right Ascen
sion of the 10th House; the degree and minute of the
Ecliptic line which will then be rising in the East is 17
degrees and nearly 5 minutes which is the Longitude of the
Ascendant or 1st House; and the degree and minute of the
Equator, then rising 340 degrees and 15 minutes, will be
49
-
-------------- - - - - - -===--------------- a ------
the oblique ascension of that point which is equal to 90
degrees added to the Right Ascension of the meridian
before found.
Next enter the table of Polar elevation, and even with
51° 32, (making proportion for the difference in minutes in
the latitude,) the poles of the 11th and 3rd House will be
found 23 degrees and 28 minutes; and for those of the 12th
and 2nd House, 40 degrees 48 minutes. Next add 30 de
grees to the Right Ascension of the 10th, and the sum is 280
degrees 15 minutes, which is the oblique ascension of the
11th. To find the longitude of its Cusp, depress the pole
as taught in the Precepts, till 23 degrees 28 minutes appear
on the horizon; and turning the globe till the degrees of
the Equator, answering to the oblique ascension is just
appearing on the edge of the horizon, and the degrees and
minutes of the Sign of the Zodiac then rising, will be wr
the 1st degree and about 15 minutes for the Cusp of the
11th House; for the Cusp of the 12th, I add 30 degrees to
the oblique ascension ofthe 11th, andthe sum is 310 degrees
15 minutes, which is the oblique ascension of the 12th
House, whose Polar elevation is 40 degrees 48 minutes;
and by proceeding as in the foregoing, the Cusp of the
12th will be found about the 19th degree of wff, next to the
oblique ascension of the ascending Sign, 340 degrees 15
minutes. I add 30 degrees more, and the sum is the
oblique ascension of the 2nd House, substracting360, as the
total exceeds that number, and the remainder is 10 degrees
15 minutes. The Polar elevation of that House is 40
degrees 48 minutes, which, in the same manner as before,
gives about 17 degrees of r for its Cusp. Lastly, for the
Cusp of the 3rd, I add 30 degrees to 10 degrees 15 minutes,
and the sum is 40 degrees 15 minutes, which is the oblique
ascension of the 3rd House, whose Polar elevation is 23
degrees 28 minutes, which by the precepts aforesaid, gives
D
--a
50
8 nearly 20 degrees for the Cusp of the 3rd House; thus
the six Celestial Houses having been obtained, the oppo
site Houses have opposite Signs which shall be shown as
under :— -
Houses. Cusps. No. of the Signs. Houses. Cusps.
Meridian 10 t 1149 - 8 Add 6 to 4 II 11 49
11 W 0 15 9 each and 5 gs 0 15
12 Vf 19 . . 9 refer to 6 g; 19 0
Ascendant 1 : 17 5 10 Table for 7 Q 17 5
2 r 17 . . 0 counting 8 n. 17
3 820 ... 1 the Signs. 9 m 20
These signs and degrees placed on the Cusp or angles of
a figure of the Twelve Houses, drawn circular or otherwise,
according to the Artist's pleasure, with the Planetary Orbs
inserted therein, with their Longitudes reduced to the given
time, and the date of the year, day of the month, hour,
and minute inserted in the centre, completes the operation
as far as it is in the present occasion necessary.
To Erect a Figure of the Heavens, for any required Time,
by the Circular Planisphere, made and sold by the
Author of this Work,
This Instrument is a projection of the Sphere, and repre
sents the Horary circles of position which pass through the
Equator and the two Tropics, viz. 3 and WP, dividing them
equally into twelve divisions according to the Diurnal or
Nocturnal Arcs; it has a moveable ecliptic fitted to it with
the Signs and Degrees of the Zodiac marked upon its edge;
the Equator serves as a circle of hours, and from the centre
of the projection is a thread, which only requires to be
stretched to the given hour, and having previously found
the Sun’s place, as before directed, you have only to move
the Ecliptic till that point appears directly under the thread,
and you have then the degrees of the Ecliptic shown at one
51
view on the Cusps of the Twelve Houses, and consequently
the figure of the Heavens required. The reader will under
stand, I do not pledge myself for the particular accuracy
of the instrument, but that it is sufficiently so for general
purposes.
The following are brief Sketches of the nature and signi
fication of the Twelve Divisions of the Heavens, and the
Effects of Planets transiting or passing through them.
FIRST AND SEVENTH HousEs, or DIVISIONs.
The First and Seventh Houses, particularly the First,
have signification of the body; its shape and description,
hurts, diseases, &c. The place in which we live, house,
home, family, domestic affairs, planets passing those angles
if malefics, show evil or unfortunate times; for instance #
there and 3 retrograde, show illness, quarreling, conten
tions, difficulties, and misfortunes; more especially when
in the common signs II mp 1 % ; and if the Luminaries
should happen to be placed therein at birth, the effects, in
that case, will be more violent and mischievous, generally
denoting trouble, illness, death, discord, or confusion, and
separation in families. These two angles, with the tenth
and fourth, when the Planetary Orbs are passing through
them have signification of persons coming to the house or
the company the native keeps, introductions in life, &c.
and the planets k and 3 retrograde in the tenth, give
trouble and difficulty by or through connexions or acquaint
ances formed at that time. The benefics ) and 9 show
happiness and prosperity; the malefic operations of k and
3 in this particular are decidedly different to each other, for
Saturn, by his slowness, indicates trouble of long duration
to a tradesman, loss of credit, want of business, unsuccess
ful speculations, often terminating in bankruptcy or failure,
imprisonment, protracted Law business, sometimes ruin;
3 retrograde thore gives much trouble, bustle, and con
**
52
tentions in his house and family, quarreling among friends
and acquaintances, loss in his situation in life by heat of
temper, and sudden misfortune. Of the angles last named,
(the tenth and fourth,) the latter is decidedly the worst; and
the planets k and d retrograde passing through them, are
observed to produce very evil effects, which, unless coun
teracted by other very favourable configurations or circum
stances in operation at the same time, end in little less
than complete ruin of the Native’s prospects in life, at least
for several years; the latter observation applies more parti
cularly to the effects of the planet h.
-
THE SEcond AND EIGHTH Houses, or DIVISIONs.
These Divisions of the Heavens seem to have significa
tion of removals, travelling, alterations in business, new
speculations; they have also the signification of the
brothers and sisters. The Second House seems to belong
rather to the last mentioned class of Relatives, and the
Eighth to the former; the speculating influence of these
two places seems to arise from their configurations to the
most elevated point of the Heavens, namely, the Meridian.
Their qualities appertaining to matters of Relationship, are
gathered from the Second being in Trineaspect to theTenth
House, and the Eighth in Trine aspect to the Fourth House,
which are certainly points in the Heavens that have signi
fication of Parents; and when connected with the orbs of Q
k e g render the enquirer all the information necessary,
but more of thathereafter. I have generally observed these
two places" occupied at Birth by planets in Common Signs,
confer a restless, unsettled, speculating turn of mind on the
Native; he is constantly removing or changing his business
or pursuits, fond oftravelling, or unsettled, and violent con
* The Second and Eighth Division.
53
figurations upon these points also show troubles to relations,
such as brothers and sisters; and that the Planets, while
passing these points, bring about events ofa like description
to those already mentioned, which continueduring the time
of their transit. I have remarked that the planet k when
passing that place" generally producessome great change in
the Native's pursuits in the world, often leading him into
important speculations, butunfortunately all planets in this
situation are descending to the Fourth angle, which I have
already spoken of, whose effects are so malign. I would
therefore advise persons, (if possible,) to speculate during
the time the orb his passing from the angle of the Sixth to
the Eighth and Ninth, as that is the rising point in the
Heavens.
THE THIRD AND NINTH HoUSEs, or Divisions.
These Divisions of the Heavens are of a less active
duality than any of the others; therefore little can be said
oftheir particular power, andduring the transit of the supe
riors through them, theNative does nothing fresh ofany great
importance; but as the planets h or 3 retrograde advance
toward the Fourth House, the storm which has been gather
ing before appears to thicken, and the prospect becomes
more gloomy. The Luminaries in either of these places at
birth denote trouble to parents, perhaps their decease; for
it is generally observed the Native loses by death some rela
tive, or aged person, when h is passing either of these two
Points (so occupied) or justas he is entering the Fourth or
Tenth, during his last retrogradation near those places.
THE FourTH AND TENTH Houses, or Divisions.
These angles have the signification of parents as before
stated; they have also the government,(to a certainextent.)
* The Second Division.
th.
54.
of the honour, happiness, and public actions of the Native
which are almost exclusively dependent for their increase
or decrease on the transits of the Benefics, particularly 21,
for under such circumstances, and while it is passing there,
should k be in the Twelfth or Sixth in Sextile or Trine aspect
to him, or even the orb of 3 retrograde, there" will, under
such circumstances, prove advantageous. Also the inferior
planets, by their passage over this place, seem to complete
the effects of combinations previously formed, or lay the
foundation for others to which the superiors will set their
seal when they arrive at those places; and it will be found
that all Planets produce favorable events while passing the
Tenth House, except # and g, who at that time should
be found in the Sixth or Twelfth Houses when there are
Planets passing the Tenth House. The position of k at
birth in the Tenth is unfortunate, and the transit of that
Orb at after periods of life over that place is very evil. (See
my Remarks on the First and Seventh Houses; also of its
effects when in the Fourth.)
THE ELEvENTH AND FIFTH Houses, or DIVISIONs.
These Divisions of the Heavens have a peculiar signifi
cation; the Fifth is in a Trine Aspect to the Ascendant,
and the Eleventh is in a Sextile, both of which, from their
harmonious configurations, naturally become remarkable
places for friendships and attachments between the sexes,
the beginnings of which may be frequently and generally
traced to those points, ofthe two, viz. the Eleventh and Fifth;
the Eleventh seems to bear the greatest sway, although the
Fifth stands very high in that respect; b passing these
points, generally produce lasting attachments; it, not quite
* The Sixth and Twelfth Houses.
55
so persevering; d retrograde, violent and hasty. Many
Orbs surrounding these places at birth, indicate trouble
and disappointment in attachments, particularly when
posited in Bicorporeal Signs. The inferiors strengthen and
complete combinations.
THE TweLFTH AND SIxTH HousEs, or DIVISIONs.
The passage of the Planets through these Divisions are
the best situations for advancement in the world; they
indicate, or show a disposition in the friends of the Native
to assist and forward his views in the world. Of the two,
I consider the Sixth to be the best; and violent configura
tions, such as the opposition, 2 and 21, d, retrograde,
or an opposition of 6 and 2/, which are evil and angry
aspects in any other division of the Heavens, are fortunate
in this instance; and while many persons who have these
Aspects in the Tenth and Fourth are tumbling headlong to
ruin, those persons who have these in the Sixth or Twelfth.
of their nativities are rising in the world, doing well, and
surrounded by friends; are pushing on to prosperity and
fortune.
N.B. Transit Tables of the motions of the Celestial Orbs
may be had of the Author from 1790 to 1861.
* -
-
* * ~ | -
aid a dai ,
* Londbal, I - . . . . . .
lood - i.e.
… . . . . . . . . … are f * *
| | | | *
, for . . . . . . . . . . … ."
-
* … . . . . . . …'… . . .
- -
LECTURE V.
On the Natural Division of Human Life into Twelve
Periods; which Periods are found to be remarkable for
the Production of Changes in the Form, Constitution, or
Habit of the Body, and also are observed to be attended
by some important alterations in the Mind and Affairs.
“As man, perhaps, the moment of his breath
Receives the lurking principle of death
The young disease, that must subdue at length,
Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength,
So cast and mingled with his very frame,
The mind's disease its ruling passion came;
Each vital humour which should feed the whole,
Soon flows to this in body and in soul,
Whatever warms the heart or fills the head,
As the mind opens and the functions spread,
Imagination plies her dangerous art
And pours it all upon the peccant part.” Pop E.
THAT there is a gradual and constant change, slowly and
imperceptibly taking place in the human frame from the
beginning at the egress of the helpless infant from the
womb of the parent, and thence proceeding, till by length
of years, and consequent decay of the vital and physical
powers, it as gradually declines to original helplessness, or
second childhood, and at last returns to the womb of his
mother earth. This constant gliding from childhood to
youth, from youth to manhood, and from manhood to old
age, and from thence to decay and death, so insensibly
proceeds, that the subject of these changes seldom feels it
till opportunities for serious reflection occur, and then
when old age comes on, he remembers with regret the
57
joyful ebulitions of buoyant spirits in the days of child
hood, the gaieties and enjoyments of his youthful age, the
unwearied exertions of the mature period of his life, the
quiet relaxation from toil in the autumn of his days; and
when contemplating with pleasure the energetic powers of
the rising generation, he sees the image of himself
improved, reflected in the intelligence of their youthful
countenances—countenances in which appear concentrated
all the fruits of the experience of the parent, and the
promise of greater attainments, such as knowledge, with
perseverance combined in the vigour ofdays, naturally tend
to produce. Methinks I hear him exclaim, go on my chil
dren, you have already the experience of sixty summers
without one furrow of care on your cheeks; the temple of
Fame is before you, and your names, carved in indelible
characters, will be transmitted with honorable and untar
nished memory as the example for succeeding worthies; and
when my feeble body is mouldering into native dust, you
will in turn inspire your offspring with emulation to become
wiser and better than yourselves. These are the reflections
which the winter of life, the enjoyment of the mental
powers, the possession of affluence, with the blessing of an
amiable offspring, will be calculated to call forth; but alas!
as length of life, and the perfect possession of the other
auxiliaries to happiness are given to so few, (comparatively
speaking,) I shall moralize no further, but proceed directly
with the subject; and it cannot, I consider, be denied there
is a natural period, or time of rise, progress, decline, and
decay, appointed for all things; which natural period is
regulated and appointed by the Creator himself from the
beginning. This is obvious, and there is a period of dura
tion for animate matter as well as inanimate; and when
the general time or limit of duration has been fairly com
58
pleted, the bodies, or substances, shrink and fall to decay,
and become subject to decomposition or destruction of the
fabric or materials of which they were compounded. It is
clear then, there is a term of life appointed for human
kind, the brute creation, and for every living thing that
soars the air, thatswims the sea—in vegetativelife,for every
tree and flower, that grows on the surface of the ground,
and for every mineral production of the earth; for we find
even mere matter, such as stones, are subject to decay in
periods of time of greater or less space, according to the
substance or nature of the material of which they are
composed; but as my present business is that which concerns
the life of man, and the gradual changes which take place
therein, from infancy to old age, and in taking but a slight
view of the subject, I conceive the most casual observer
cannot fail remarking the difference ofcountenances among
those persons of his acquaintance, at different periods of
life, as also with the observation of others, such as how the
infant grows, how the child has improved, how the youth has
changed, how serious and steady such a one has become, he
is quite the man of business; and in the latter part of
life thus, I see old age and infirmity in the countenance,
This being the case, and as changes in the human counte
nance ever indicate the passions and workings of the mind,
as well as alterations in the body, and as the mental motions
are thus connected with changes in the affairs, hence it
follows that such matters appear to go hand in hand with
each other, and consequently that change in the body
produce or bring forward others in the mind and feelings;
and these agitations, in physical and mental powers, natu
rally introduce alterations in circumstances and positions
in life, depending upon the radical situation of the Celestial
Orbs at birth and this I trust will be proved by examples
59
hereafter. The configurations which take place, of a good
or evil tendency in the Heavens near the periods on which
these natural changes in life are observed to happen likewise
considered.
The precise time of life when these changes happen,
and their number, has been the subject of discussion among
the ancient Physicians and Philosophers at various periods,
from the early ages, even to the present time; yet all of
them considering the life of man to be divided into four
general periods, viz.-Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and
Old Age," but arranged into seven ages.-R. Record, a
Physician of the sixteenth century, in a work published
1651, speaking of the alteration of the Human Frame,
according to the differences of ages, says, “You shall
understand that the chief differences are four, that is to say,
Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Old Age, for though
there be commonly seven ages reckoned, yet those be four
principal, and the other three be comprehended under
these four. Childhood endureth from the hour of birth, till
the end of 14 years of age, and is of complexion hot and
moist; at the end of 14 years, beginneth youth, and lasteth
till the 25th year, and this age of all others is most
temperate; from 25 until 35 years; is the flourishing of
Manhood, but yet that manhood lasteth (though not in
full freshness) until 50 years of age, and this age is of -
complexion hot and dry; from 50 years forward is the time
of age, peculiarly called age, in which time, man’s nature
is cold and dry.” This is the opinion verbatim of that
author, and to which the great poet Shakspeare subscribes;
and Moxon, in his Mathematical Dictionary, published1692,
under the article Climacterical Years, gives the following
definition, “Climacterical years, so called from the Greek
word Climax,” (a gradation or rounds of a ladder, because
* In accordance with the Four quarters of the year, Spring, Summer, Au
tumn, and Winter.
60
they are the great steps, or remarkable degrees, whereby
man’s life ascends, or mounts up to its appointed period.) are
certain observable years, which are usually attended with
some grand mutation of Life or Fortune, as the 7th year,
the 21st made up of three times seven, the 49th made up
of seven times seven, the 63rd being nine times seven, and
the 81st being nine times nine, which two last are often
called the grand Climactricks, in which many famous men
have been observed to die. Not only the learned Heathens,
but Plato, Cicero, Macrobius,&c. have written much of these
Climacterical years, but several Fathers and Doctors of the
church, as St. Ambrose, Austin, Bede, &c. have justified
the observation, to be neither superstitious nor unpro
fitable.” Thus far from those ancient Authors, and in
page 55, (same work) under the article Enneatical Days, or
Years, he has these words in explanation, “Every ninth
day of a sickness, or year of one's life, which is thought to
bring some great alteration in the disease, or mutation of
fortune.”
Astrologers have also assigned portions of the natural
period of the human life to the Celestial Orbs, beginning
with the orb of Luna, and from thence passing to Mer
cury, Venus, Sol, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Ptolemy,
Tetrabiblos, Book IX. Chap. X. on the Periodical Divisions
of Time, says, “The mode of consideration applicable to
human nature is universally one and the same ; and it is
analogous to the arrangement of the Seven Planetary
Orbs.” He then assigns to the Moon the first four years,
to Mercury the following ten, to Venus the next succeed
ing eight years, to Sol the following nineteen years, to the
orb of Mars the next fifteen, to Jupiter the next twelve
* It will of course be remembered, that the Sun, in the Ptolemean Astro
nomy, is counted as a planetary orb.
61.
years, and to Saturn the remainder of his life, which added,
produces 68 years up to the time of his entering the last
age. This arrangement of the Orbs appears natural to my
understanding, and I only differ from that venerable author,
in a slight degree, in the number of years or space of the
division of time attached to each. Blanchard, in his
Physical Dictionary, published 1715, speaking of Climac
terical years, ridicules the idea of deaths taking place
upon them, and considers there are as many deaths
happen at other times (which I think reasonable); but in
page 9 of the same work, under the article Ætas, he
divides the Human Life into parts in the following manner:—
“AEtas, part of the Duration of Life, wherein human
bodies undergo a considerable and sensible change, and it
is sixfold 1. Pueritia, Childhood, which is reckoned to
the fifth year of our age, is distinguished into the time
before, at, and after breeding of teeth. 2. Adolescentia,
Youth, reckoned to the eighteenth, and youth, properly so
called, to the twenty-fifth year. 3. Juventus, reckoned
from the twenty-fifth to the thirty-fifth. 4. Virilis AElas,
Manhood, from the thirty-fifth to the fiftieth. 5. Senectus,
Old Age, from fifty to sixty. 6 Decrepita Ætas, Decrepit
Age, which at last is all swallowed up in death.”. Thus far
Blanchard. And it was from this data, joined with obser
vations of many years standing, that ten years since, I began
to turn my particular attention to this subject, as a general
fundamental point, which appeared to lay a foundation for
certain alterations in the active motive or principle; and
to bring about such events in life, connected with the age
or period appropriate thereto. Ptolemy, in Book IV. Chap.
X of the Tetrabiblos,has been particularly careful to direct
the Student to the consideration of this important part of
the subject, in order to give consistency to predictions of
events, from the Science of Celestial Philosophy: his
62
words are these, “Now, as in all genethlialogical cases, a
certain, common, and general arrangement, affecting the
region or country, and the race or generation is pre-supposed
to be in operation, to which arrangement particular infer
ences, relating to the form of the body, the properties of
the mind, and national habits and variations must each be
subservient; and as, in these respects, certain causes more
general and predominating are pre-supposed in existence
before particular causes, due care must consequently be
taken, in order to make an inference consistant with the
course of nature, to observe always the original and predo
minating cause, and never to lose sight of it, lest some simi
larity in nativities, (if any such should exist) might induce
an assertion, when the original predominating cause pro
ceeding from the region itself has been overlooked, that the
native of Ethiopia will be born of white complexion, and
with long and straight hair, or, on the other hand, that the
native of Germany or of Gaul" will be black in complexion,
and have curled hair, or, that the said nations are polished
in manner and cultivate learning, but that the people of
Greece, are barbarous and illiterate, and so, in short, of
other countries, without duly considering the national
differences and variations in the several courses of life.
So also, with regard to the division of time, it is in the
same manner essential to consider the different qualities of
the severalages of life, and to pre-determine the appropriate
fitness of every age to such events as may be expected, in
order to avoid the gross error which might arise from a
merely vague consideration of the subject, by attributingto
infancy some deed or circumstance of too complete a nature
and belonging to manhood, or by ascribing to extreme old
age the procreation of children or some other action be
*
* France. f Ethiopia.
63
--~~~~ - - -
longing to youth; and to adapt, on the contrary, to each
separate age such circumstances as seem, by due observation
of the periods, to be suitable and appropriate thereto.”
I now proceed to the natural division of Human Life into
periods which are agreeable to the Fundamental principle,
laid down in page 61, with some alterations, the results
of my own experience and observations. First, Pueritia,
Childhood, which I divide into three parts, viz;—From the
Birth to the conclusion of the first five years; from the age
of five years, to the following six years, making eleven
years; and then from the age of eleven to seventeen years
complete. Second, Adolescentia, Youth, divided into two
parts, viz;-From the age of seventeen to twenty-one, from
twenty-one to twenty-five. Third, Juventus, also divided
into two parts, viz;—From twenty-five to thirty years of
age, and from thirty to thirty-five. Fourth, Virilis AEtas,
Manhood, divided into three parts, viz;—From thirty-five
years to forty-two years and six months, or near forty-three
years; from forty-two years and six months, to forty-five
years, and from forty-five to fifty years of age. Fifth,
Senectus, Old Age, divided into two parts, viz;—From
fifty to fifty-five years of age, from fifty-five to sixty years
of age. Sixth, Decrepita Ætas, Decripit Age, which
continues to the end of life, and whose duration depends
on circumstances, the details of which will form part of the
Second Course of these Lectures. * …,
- The critical years of Human life then appear to be as
follow:—The 5th, 11th, 17th, 21st, 25th, 30th, 35th, 43rd,
45th, 50th, 55th, and 60th years. Of these the first five
* These remarks, though unnecessary to the adept in the Science, are not
withstanding, highly important to be understood by those persons at present
unacquainted with it; and to such persons the Author of these Lectures parti
cularly addresses himself. -
64
years, are under the general dominion of the Lunar Orb;
from the fifth to the seventeenth, the orb of Mercury; from
thence to the twenty-fifth, is appropriately governed by that
of Venus; from twenty-five to thirty-five, the bloom of life,
is appropriated to the Solar Orb; from thirty-five to fifty,
generally the most active part, to the orb of Mars; and from
fifty to sixty years, the orb of Jupiter; and from thence to
the lastage, belongs to the orbs of Saturn and Herschel.
These are shown in the Synoptical Table, page 15."
* I shall here, for the Information of the reader, insert the words of the
learned Ptolemy, from the chapter last quoted, on the qualities of the six gene
ral Periods, altering in practice the number of the years given by that Author,
to those of the authority from which I have taken the precise limits of each
period.
“Hence the first age of infancy, which endures for four years, agreeing in
number with the quadrennial (I say quintaum) period of the Moon is con
sequently adapted to her; being in its nature moist and incompact, presenting
rapidity of growth, being nourished by moist things, and possessing a highly
variable habit, its mental incompleteness is likewise in accordance with its
familiar relation to the Moon and her operative influence.
The age after this continues for ten years, (I say twelve) and accommodates
itself to the second sphere of Mercury. In this period the intellectual and
reasoning faculties of the mind, begin to take their character, imbibing the
seeds of learning, and developing as it were the elements and germs of the
genius and abilities, and their peculiar quality, the mind is also arroused to
discipline and instruction, and to its first excercises. Venus corresponds with
the next and third age, which lasts throughout the following eight years, (I
say eight,) the number of her own period, from her the movement of the
seminal vessels originates, as well as an unrestrained impetuosity and preci
pitancy in amours. -
The fourth and adult age next succeeds, and is subject to the fourth sphere,
that of the Sun; it endures for nineteen years, according to the Sun's number,
(I say ten,) authority of action now commences in the mind, the career of life
is entered upon, distinction and glory are desired, and puerile irregularities
are relinquished for more orderly conduct and the pursuit of honour.
Mars next, after the Sun, claims the fifth age, that of manhood agreeing in
duration with his own period, viz. Fifteen years, (I say fifteen years,) he
induces greater austerity of life, together with vexation, care, and trouble.
65
It now remains to state for the Student's guidance, some
necessary cautions to be observed in forming opinions on
particular changes in affairs, connected with critical years,
and here it must be kept in mind, that the situation in
life of the parties must ever be taken into the account; for
persons whosesphere of birth, places them in such positions
with regard to their affairs, that no contingent circumstance
can possibly happen in which personal risque or speculation
will be concerned until the arrival ofsome particular period,
depending either upon deaths or alterations in the affairs of
persons, with whom they are connected, with such, these
periods may, for a certain time, be likely to pass,with trifling
alterations in circumstances, such as in cases of heirs appa
rent of monarchs, of lineal expectance, of entailed estates,
of preferment in government or national institutions, from
the demise of seniority, and the improbability of warlike
achievements in time of peace, and to those circumstances,
where the parties are bound by the shackles and penalties
of the law, bonds, deeds, apprenticeships, articles, or time
bargains, and therefore cannot be subject to particular alter
ations in public life, till such great events take place,
although the changes of the body and constitution will
succeed each other as usual, but nevertheless may be subject
to mental agitation, or changes in domestic concerns, while
those whose affairs are placed on a basis of less permanent
description, and consequently are adventurers in life,
Jupiter occupies the sixth sphere, and influences the mature age, during the
twelve years, corresponding to his own period, (I say ten,) he operates the
relinquishment of labour, of hazardous employment and tumult, and produces
greater gravity, foresight, prudence, and sagacity, favouring theclaim to honour,
respect, and privilege.
Saturn, moving in the last sphere, regulates the final, old age, as agreeing
with its chillness, he obstructs the mental movements, the appetites, and en
joyments; rendering them imbecile and dull, in conformity with the dullness
of his own motion.” -
E.
66
will experience considerable alterations in those years,
depending upon the nature of their employment, and also
of the Configurations or Aspects of the Celestial Orbs, to
the places of the Luminaries on the day of birth, and
likewise to the Angles or other Divisions of the Figure of
the Heavens, at the hour or minute of the day or night, if
known.
These cautions, duly considered and connected with the
Four preceding Lectures, will throw considerable light
upon the events of critical as well as other years of life.
These years are readily obtained, by numeral addition
to the year of birth: for example, a person born in 1800, the
arrangement of the critical periods, will be thus, 1805,
1811, 17 1821, 25 1830, 35 1842-3, 45 1850, 55 1860,
which years will be observed to lay foundations for altera
tions in the body, mind, or affairs, which will be fortunate
or otherwise, according to the quality of the radical posi
tions which have been the subject of the three First Lectures,
connected with the effects of the combinations, found by the
Planetary Orbs during the Transit or Passage through the
Twelve Divisions of the Heavens, adjusted to the hour and
minute of time," which has been the subject of the Fourth
Lecture, keeping in view the exceptions.t. As an example,
I shall call the Student's attention to the birth day of
Napoleon, August 15, 1769, the critical years attending
that distinguished character, will be 1774, 1780, 1786,
1790, 1794, 1799, 1804, 1811-12, 1814; which years
would be likely to lay foundations for changes in his affairs,
calculated to bring forward introductions in the world, and
events of a fortunate or unfortunate character, and without
entering into changes of minor importance. I find him in
his 25th year, at the close of 1793, coming into notice, in
* If possible to be obtained. + See pages, 11, to 14, 17, 23, to 21.
67
the affairs of that eventful period, as a commander of the
Republican artillery of the French nation,
“Seeking the bubble reputation, even at the cannon's mouth.”
In the year 1799, when he had attained his 6th period,
or 30th year, he became the head of the Government of
France, and was chosen First Consul. In the year 1804,
when Napoleon had attained the 7th critical period, or
the 35th year of his age, he became Emperor of France.
The year 1812, which commenced the 8th period, viz. from
42 years and 6 months, till 45, was remarkable for the
production of the most prominently fatal events in which
the destiny of Europe, of France, and of himself were at
once identified; and before the close of the 8th period,
(short as it was, being only eighteen months) Europe was
emancipated, the French nation humbled, Napoleon abdi
cated, and had taken up his residence in the island of
Elba. The 9th period, commencing at 45 years of age,
began in 1814; and in the beginning of the year 1815,
we find him again before the public till the fate of the
battle of Waterloo, which entirely blasted his future hopes,
and became the closing scene of his greatness; and on the
8th of August he set sail for the place of his banishment,
and, eventually, that of his grave.”
* The Student will be at no loss to discover the astral causes of the misfor
tunes of the period, without the precise hour of birth, if he will consult an
Ephemeris of the Celestial Motions for the years 1812, 13, 14, and 15. He
will there find the orb of Herschel, in the sign Scorpio, in Quartile ray to the
place of the Solar Orb at birth, and afflicting the radical place of the orb of
Jupiter. And in the year 1813, the orb of Mars retrograde in opposite ray to
the Solar place at birth, and also to that of the orb Mercury, from the sign Aqua
rius, while the orb of Saturn was afflicting the radical place of the Lunar Orb,
which took place in the year 1815; and on the 18th of June, the day on which
that memorable encounter at Waterloo happened, the Lunar Orb was placed
in the fixed sign Scorpio, in Trine aspect of Mercury, and in square, of the
Solar place at birth, and in square of Herschel, while the orb of Mercury was
68
I now turn to the birth-day of his Grace the Duke
of Wellington, May 1, 1769, at which time the Planetary
Orbs were thus placed; © 2é near a Trine Aspect of the
orb of Mars, a Sextile ray of Sol and Herschel, a Trine of
* , a Trine of Pl, and also, applying to a Quartile
Aspect of Venus the solar orb was in the sign Taurus, in
Sextile to the orb of Mars, in Conjunction with Herschel,
Sextile of the Moon, Sextile of h, and Opposition of l;
from consulting the Ephemeris on the day and year in
question, the Solar and Lunar Orbs will be found connected
with each other, and the remaining Orbs, by the following
Aspects: 1 Conjunction, 5 Sextiles, 1 Quartile, 3 Trines,
1 Opposition, Total 11; while Napoleon had the lumi
naries only, supported by 5 Aspects, in consequence of
their births taking place in the same year. The critical
periods will be nearly the same as 1774, 1780, 1786, 1790,
1794, 1799, 1804, 1811, 1814, 1819, 1824, 1829, and
1836; and accordingly, about the beginning of the year
1804, we find this individual distinguishing himself in
India as Sir Arthur Wellesley, His Grace being at that time
35 years of age. After that time, we find him importantly
engaged in the Peninsula War, but not prominently
appearing in the Chronological Annals ofthat period. In the
year 1811, then in his 43rd year, we find him again before
the public. The year 1812 presented a succession of
brilliant achievements; and in the beginning of the same
year he was appointed generalissimo of the British forces.
The year 1813 brought fresh honours, and on the 12th of
May, 1814, at the close of his 45th year, at the commence
ment of the 9th period, Parliament voted His Grace half a
advancing to an opposite ray of the Lunar Orb, and that of Saturn was vibrat
ing between the squares of the radical places of Sol and Mercury. These confi
gurations will, I consider, sufficiently account for the disasters of that period.
69
* -
*
-----------
million of money; and in July, (the same year) he was
appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Pleni
potentiary to the court of France. The year 1815 brought
this famed warrior and Bonaparte in contact at Waterloo;
and in the month of June, £200,000, was voted to him,
while his less fortunate contemporary was preparing to
leave France for ever. After that time we do not find him
much noticed in the Chronological Records of England till
about the 12th period, commencing at 60 years of age,
being then Premier. I purposely abstain from further
comment, as this Work is devoted entirely to the cause of
Science, unconnected with political affairs of the present
eventful period. I shall conclude this Lecture with recom
mending the Student to a serious consideration of its
contents, connected with the principles laid down in the
preceding, confidently anticipating he will not lose his
labour.
LECTURE VI.
-
Of the Nature and Quality of Remarkable Congresses of
the Two superior Celestial Orbs denominatedby Astrono
mers the Conjunctions of Saturn and Jupiter, and of the
Effects arising therefrom in the Affairs of Mankind in
general.
THESE remarkable congresses or meetings of the celes
tial orbs, Saturn and Jupiter, have attracted the attention
of the Students in the Science of Celestial Philosophy from
the most remote periods; and theirindications, and observed
effects on the affairs of Kings, Nations, Communities,
Families, and Individuals have been the subject of parti
cular notice, forming a prominent feature in that depart
ment of the Predictive Science, called State Astrology;
much, however, of the very great importance of these con
gresses have been passed slightly over, and but few remarks
have been handed to us in a systematic form so as to
enable the Student to commence a regular course of expe
riments, to obtain some introductory knowledge of the
harmony of their periodical motions and effects.
My present limits will not allow me to enter fully into
the subject of their extensive operation, as also of the
effects of Eclipses of the Luminaries, but in the following
Series I intend publishing, I shall give the Student at
length the substance of my observations thereon, reduced
to a practical form.
The conjunctions of Saturn and Jupiter are meetings of
these Orbs in any point of the Heavens, in which they
71
appear to occupy the same sign, degree, and minute of the
Zodiac. These meetings are periodical, and are observed
to happen from Astronomical mean computation after a
lapse of 19 Julian years, 314 days, and 13 hours, or, more
correctly, 7251 days, 3 hours, 23 minutes, 24 seconds, and
17 thirds; and these congresses are made regularly in each
of the Twelve Signs of the Zodiac, in a retroceding order,
at the distance of a Trine Aspect, or a third part of the
circle, from each other: for instance, if a conjunction of
Saturn and Jupiter took place in the sign Sagitarius which
is the fiery triplicity, or Trigon, the following conjunction,
after nearly 20 years had elapsed, would happen in the sign
Leo, and the next after that, would fall in Aries, and the
Fourth congress would fall in Sagitarius again, and so they
would proceed, continuing for the space of about 200 years
to hold these congresses in the same quality of Signs,”
differing upon an average of about 3 degrees in Longitude
from the place of each other, till after 10 conjunctions,
made in the same triplicity or trigon, they would then
change signs and commence a series of congresses in the
earthy triplicity or trigon, commencing with the sign Virgo,
and from thence passing to WP, and so on to 8, and after
that round of nearly 200 years in the earthy triplicity or
trigon, would then pass into the airy triplicity or trigon,
beginning with the sign II, and passing from thence to ::,
and from thence to n, till after the same period of 200
years more, these superior Orbs would pass into the watery
triplicity or trigon, beginning with the sign 9é, and passing
T & 1 are Fiery Triplicates or Trigon.
ö WP TR are Earthy Triplicates or Trigons.
II + & are Airy Triplicates or Trigons.
23 til 26 are Watery Triplicates or Trigons.
72
from thence to m, and from thence to g3, and after 200
years more, they would again revert to the fiery trigon,
beginning with the sign f as before. In this manner
they have continued to make their radiations through the
Twelve Signs, and four triplicities, beginning with their
entrance into the fiery triplicity by the sign Sagitary 3958
years before the Christian era, and thence passing alter
mately through the others seven times, it appears they are
now making the eighth circuit at the present time" of these
conjunctions. Those which have happened at the entrance
of the orbs of Saturn and Jupiter into the fiery trigons,
have been denominated by Astrologers Great or Principal;
while all others have been considered Mean or Lesser. The
true astrological reason is, that the entrance of these
Planets into the fiery trigons or triplicities, have always
been attended by remarkable alterations in the affairs of
the world, which reference to history will testify. Mandey,
in his Synopsis Mathematica Universalis, page 339, speak
ing of the periods of these great conjunctions, says “There
fore, of such great conjunctions, there have only happened
eight since the erection of the orb, with which always
happen great things to be done; to wit,
1. The Creation of the World, or our first Father, Adam.
2. The taking away Enoch.
3. The going forth of the Israelites from Egypt.
4. The Nativity of Christ.
5. The Restoration of the Roman Empire under Charles
the VIII, which happened in the Christian Epocha,
1604.”
The congressional entrance of those Planets into the
fiery trigon, according to Holwell, appear to be 3958 years
before the coming of Christ, in the month of February, and
* See Catastrophe Mundi, J. Holwell, 1682.
73
they met in the 8th degree of t , the 2nd was 3614 years
ante Christ, in the month of November, in the 5th degree
of 1 ; the 3rd 2370 years before Christ, in the month of
December, in 8 degrees of t , the 4th 1575 years before
Christ; and there were no less than three conjunctions of k:
and 21 that year. The first was on March 12, in 9 degrees
of 1 ; the second in May, in the 8th degree t ; the third
was in September in 4 degrees of t ; and that author par
ticularly directs the Student's attention to this triple con
junction. The 5th congress in this sign happened 781
years before our Saviour, in 13 degrees of f ; the 6th
was A. D. 15, in 15 degrees of t ; the 7th was in the year
A. D. 809, in 6 degrees of t ; and the 8th time, they met
at the entrance of the fiery trigon in the year 1603, in
8 degrees of the sign f, in the month of December, and
in which trigon they will continue to make their conjunc
tions till their entrance into the earthy trigon in the year
1802. The final departure of these Celestial Congresses
from the fiery trigon took place in 1821; and it will be
nearly 600 years before they again meet therein. The
importance of this trigon may be traced, by comparing the
events of history therewith, and to prove this, I shall give
my author’s own words: “For the benefit of the Sons of Art
I will write a few remarks, which I hope will not be amiss:
the first restitution of the fiery trigon after the world’s
creation happened in Enoch’s time; the second happened
about 36 years before the general Deluge, and that event
happened under the influence of a conjunction of k and it
in Q, and under the same triplicity and conjunction of k:
and ), in r. 120 years after the Flood,was the Confusion of
Languages, and the beginning of the Assyrian monarchy.
The third, in Moses’ time, and the delivery of the Children
of Israel from the Egyptian bondage, took place during
the congresses of these Orbs through this trigon, and at the
74
conjunction of k and l in Aries, 1535 years before Christ
was the Deucalions deluge. Troy was destroyed during
the conjunction of k and l in my, 1198 years before the
coming of Christ, that event taking place about six years
after, under the conjunction of k and l in II, which
happened 1059 years before the coming of Christ was
London began to be built. Solomon's Temple was founded
under the influence of k and l in *, that happening
1019 before the coming of Christ. The Temple was began
to be built 6 years after that. The Temple of Solomon
was destroyed 626 years before the coming of Christ; and
before that, 4 years, there was a conjunction of k and 2/
in r, the oppsite sign to *, a thing worth taking notice
of" 1528 years before the coming of Christ, there was a
conjunction of k and l in mp. In that very year began
the Persian monarchy; and 443 years before the coming
of Christ, there was a conjunction of k and it in 8.
Seven years after this began the Grecian monarchy; and
45 years before the coming of Christ, there was a conjunc
tion of k and 2 in m. In that very year, or very near
to it, was the destruction of the Grecian monarchy, and the
beginning of the Roman monarchy. Under the influence
of a conjunction of k and 2 in t, Anno Domini 809,
was the translation of the Western Empire to the Germans.
761 years before the coming of Christ there was a conjunc
tion of 2 and l in Q ; 10 years after that Rome was
began to be built. Fifteen years after the coming of Christ
there was a great conjunction of k and 2 in t, and the
* This remark of the Author is borne out in a striking manner from testi
mony in the instance of our Metropolis - he says, “London was begun to be
built under the influence of a conjunction of h and 21 in II, so it hap.
pened to be destroyed in the conflagration of 1666, three years after a conjunc
tion had taken place in f, its opposite sign.
75
sixth time they began the fiery trigon; under this very
conjunction began christianity, which faith shall continue
till the very end of time. Six hundred and thirty years
after the coming of Christ there was a conjunction of 2
and l in mu under which influence Mohamet began to
broach his opinions in the world. Many more examples
may be found by any that are conversant in history; this
that I have done being only to show which way Astro
logy might be brought to a greater perfection than now it
is.” And the same author, in a note, further observes,
“Those families, kingdoms, cities, towns, and forts, and
all manner of men that had their rise under the airy tripli
city, viz. Gemini, Aquarius, Libra, must expect to have
great catastrophe to happen to them during the time that
K. and il maketh their ten conjunctions in the fiery
trigon.” These observations I hand to the Student’s con
sideration in the language of the author, in order that I
may escape the imputation of foisting opinions upon the
world without the concurring testimonies of the “Olden
Times” to back my assertions. “That there is nothing
new under the sun,” is a just remark, and which, in the
present instance, is borne out from experience and conti
nued observation of the effects of the conjunctions of these
Orbs on the affairs of nations for a period of 5793 years,
and which, when properly connected with the events of
history, will furnish ample means of bringing the science
of Astrology to greater perfection than it is at present.
The truth of the observation of the author I have been
quoting, on the subject of the Destruction of theTemple of
Jerusalem, under the effects of a congress of these Planets
in the opposite sign to that under which it was founded, I
have also proved in a note as far as regards the Fire of
London in 1666.
I shall now quote another fatal instance, within our own
76
observation. In the Chronological account of the eras of
the foundation of Public Buildings, I find this notice. “St.
Stephen’s Chapel, now the House of Commons, Westmin
ster, built 1115.” On reference to the various periods of the
conjunctions of k and il, I find, in the year 1106 there
was a conjunction of k and l in the earthy sign WF, and
under which conjunction that building was raised. In the
year 1834 that ancient building was destroyed by fire,
under the influence of a conjunction of k and l, which
took place in 1821, in the fiery sign r, and during the
transit of the orb of k to the square of that conjunction, and
the opposition of the planet d by retrograde apparent
motion to the place of the conjunction under which
it was founded, and to which the Lunar Orb, on the
might in question, was in opposite ray to the Sun." This
structure, founded under a conjunction of k and 2 in VP,
and from that circumstance taking place in a Tropical
Sign, becoming a place of the highest importance in
government and legislation, and the destruction of that
edifice under the violent influence of the Celestial Orbs by
evil aspect in signs of the most public description,t in
quartile or opposition to those points, will, I trust, arouse
the attention of all persons to whom the advocation of the
cause of truth is a desirable object. Those who are scep
tical on this matter, I request they will examine and judge
as they themselves would wish to be judged. Let them
remember there are points on which all persons differ in
opinion from each other, and that “Truth (as Dr. Watts
in his Logic observes) lies at the bottom of a well;” and
also, that the material which I submit to them to bring her
* See the Ephemeris for 1834, and the places of the Celestial Orbs on the
16th of October.
f See the Synoptical Table, page 15.
77
treasures to the surface is not that of sophistical reasoning,
but fundamental truths, founded on long-tried experience,
joined with patient research, divested of enthusiasm, and
with a constant conviction before me of the difficulty of the
subject, I shall, in theSecond Series ofthese Lectures,devote
considerable space to the investigation of the operation of
these congresses on the affairs of individuals of all classes
of society, as also some points of importance connected
with other branches of the Science of Celestial Philosophy.
I cannot however close this Lecture without one more
observation on the chain of effects which seem linked with
the affairs of individuals, from the pen of the indefatigable
John Partridge, whose writings on the subject of Celestial
Influence have long rendered his works interesting and
valuable, and which I have extracted from his “Merlinus
Liberatus, 1703”; his words are these, “Having often
mentioned the great conjunction (in my judgment) on this
year, (i.e. 1703) it cannot be improper to say something
concerning it, because it is the greatest that hath happened,
or will happen, for many years past or to come. It is the
first that hath happened in Aries since their entrance into
the fiery trigon, and will give sufficient demonstration of
its power and force before many years are expired, and this
as well in the fate of princes and great men, as in kingdoms
and countries, &c. Nay, I might have said in the fate of
men of all degrees and capacities; for whosoever hath the
conjunction on his mid-heaven ascendant, sun, or moon,
or in quartile, or opposition" to them, will be sufferers
most certainly under bad directions; and this not only
* By this, the Author means the congress of these orbs in that sign of the
Zodiac passing the meridian, or occupying the 1st and 7th Divisions at thetime
of their births, also in conjunction with the radical places of the luminaries at
birth, or in the Quartile or Opposition thereto.
78
according to the usual effect of the direction only, but also
according to the fate of the conjunction, and all those that
have the conjunction in Sextile, but chiefly in Trine to
these points" will find themselves advanced and preferred
in all capacities whatsoever; and this not only pursuant to
the good directions they are under, and their effects, but
according to the fate of the conjunction likewise, and this
I do recommend to all the lovers of Astrology in general,
but to the genethliacal men in particular, in whose province
it will naturally lye, to consider this doctrine in all sorts
of nativities and see if what I say doth not prove true in
the matter; I have observed it in the progress of the last
conjunction in Leo (being of the opinion before) and found
more truths than at present my time or room will admit of
However, take two or three examples. Charles II. had
his Mars on the place of the conjunction in square to his
moont, and when his sun came by direction to those points
it not only cost him his life, but embroiled his government,
and this all the time from the conjunction, to his death.
(I cannot help again interrupting the reader with the fol
lowing remark, viz. the conjunction of 2 and 2 in 1802,
was celebrated on the radical place of the orb of Mars on
the birth-day of the Emperor Napoleon.) King James II.
* It may be here necessary to state the number of degrees of distance in the
Ecliptic each aspect contains. -
A Conjunction, improperly called an Aspect, is the meeting of two Celestial
Orbs in the same sign, degree, and minute of the Ecliptic, or Zodiac.
A Sextile is when they are sixty degrees apart from each other.
A square, when ninety degrees distant.
A Trine Aspect, one hundred and twenty.
An Opposition, is one hundred and eighty degrees, or half the circle.
+ By this, the Author means the place in which the meeting of the Celestial
Orbs alluded to took place was in the same sign occupied by the orb of Mars
at that unfortunate Monarch's birth, andin a Square Aspect to the place of the
Lunar Orb also.
79
had the conjunction on his ascendant; what effect it had on
him you all remember. But besides, this is such a conjunc
tion that perhaps hath not been seen or at least observed.
The superiors met in May 1702, and Mars in Capricorn in
square to them; they continued within three or four degrees
of each other all the summer after, and all that time Mars
in quartile to them. Then in January, 1702-3, on the 4th
day, Saturn and Mars are in 4 degrees of Aries, and Jupi
ter in 8, but because of their latitude there will be some
distance between them; therefore, if you observe at their
rising on the 18th, 19th, and 20th of January, you will
find them altogether, (if it were possible to see them) and
Mars the most north of the three, therefore most elevated
and strongest of them all, therefore will govern most in the
effects,which I fear mankind will find to their cost; as to the
meaning of it this is my opinion: that for the first six or
eight years from the Conjunction, there will be wars and
mischiefs, that will impoverish the earth by their continuance,
but managed by craft and trick; but after or about ten or
twelve years there will be a war with a witness, such a one
that will shake the powers of the earth to pieces, and begin
such a reformation as hath been wanted and expected a long
time; then they will fight in earnest, the strong arm shall
hew down the mighty, and the invincible shall be con
quered.”
These remarks, I consider will be calculated to prepare
the Student for further investigation, and will, no doubt,
firmly establish these things beyond dispute, as also open
an extensive field for further research. The passage which
appears in italics is printed in the same manner in the
original, and was, no doubt, intended by the Author to be
particularly noticed by the reader. I merely add, the year
1821 produced a similar meeting of the Celestial Orbs in
the sign r, and applying the words of the Author to that
SO
date, it reaches as far as 1831 and 3; and certainly Refor
mation appears to be making rapid strides since that year
(1821) and will, we may hope, be fully accomplished before
the next conjunction in 1842, as the influence of the fiery
trigon will then leave us for about 600 years.
C O N C L U S I O N.
READER! whoever thou art, be thou friendly toward the
Science of CELESTIAL PHILosoPHY, as being a Study cal
culated to render man wiser and better; or, be thou opposed
to its principles, as rendering him more enlightened than he
ought to be, of whatsoever class thou mayest belong, thou
hast equally my good wishes. I request thou will read these
pages attentively, and thou wilt find simple truths, and
ungarnished food enough for thy mental powers. I have
not swelled this Work so as to cause inconvenience, yet thou
hast the experience of thirty years laid before thee: take it,
improve upon it—or condemn it, whichever thou wilt, for thou
canst not in truth (I well know) utterly deny it; and that
length of years, and the benevolent indications of the Celes
tial Orbs presiding at thybirth may ever attend thy progress
through this world is, to thee and all mankind generally, the
sincere wish of ZUR.I.E.L.
"T--
J. SMITH, Printer, 49, Long Acre.
By HIS MAJESTY's
3Ropal Metters patent,
-
IS PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED,
Dr. Sibly's
RE-ANIMATING
SOLAR TINCTURE;
Pabulum of Life.
HE refearches made by Dr. SIBLY into philosophical and
chemical enquiries; his long and laborious application to the
ftudy of fecond causes, which are hidden, occult, or fpiritual ope- .
rations of Nature in all her works; the chemical analyzation of
medical plants, herbs, and minerals; a contemplation of the human
tructure, with the principles of life and death; a minute investi
gation of the ancient and modern practice of physic; of hereditary,
accidental, and acquired difeafes, and the dreadful confequences of
a mistaken or misguided treatment of them, are the fources whence
the medicine is recommended to the notice of a candid and difcern
ing public.
It is a melancholy fact, too long established to be doubted, that
more than two thirds of the human race perish by improper manage
ment or neglect, either in the helpless years of infancy, in the riper
years of juvenile indifcretion, or in the more advanced flage oflife,
when a tainted or fcorbutic habit has undermined the conflitution,
and brought on a complication of maladies, as difficult to cure as
the common remedies are in general remote from the purpose. But
ftill more shocking is it to every fentiment of humanity to reflect,
that fome hundreds, perhaps thoufands, of valuable members of
fociety are annually torn from their difconfolate families by fome
accidental fudden cause, and hurried thoughtlessly to the grave, in
whom the principles of life were capable of being revived: This la
2
mentable truth has been established by the happy fuccefs of the
Humane Society, from whose laudable exertions feveral hundred
perfons have been reflored to life, who, to all vifible appearance,
were paft recovery. Every age and country affords fome instances of
perfons having been recovered, even after lying long for dead; and
from the number of those preferved by mere lucky accidents, it is
evident still greater numbers might be faved by timely pains and kill.
With this benevolent view, the prefent medicine was attempted;
strengthened by the confideration that all diforders, originating in
the blood, might either be prevented or repelled, could a medium
be discovered for infusing immediately into the mass a fluid combina
tion of fuch elemental principles as the blood and juices themselves
confist of in their pureit state; for this, in fact, is the aim of all
medicines, but which they miss by being administered in their grofs
form, and obliged to país the feveral digestive operations of the
flomach before they can reach the blood, whereby the principal
part of their occult virtue is loft among the food, or fecreted in fuch
fmall quantities as to have but little effect. A medium, poffeffing
these principles, and fo combined as to be taken instantly, and
without diminution, into the habit, would not only keep the cruor
and the ferum in due proportion, which is fo effential to health, but
would stimulate, correct, purify, and augment the blood, as its
reduced or disordered flate might require. Such a medium is the
SOLAR TINCTURE; and fuch will be found its operative effects,
under whatever circumstances it may be administered; the innocent
and balfamic qualities of which are as grateful to the internal organs
of the human frame, as the folar rays are cheering to the external.
This medicine was undoubtedly known, in fome meafure, to the
ancient philosophers; but, from its expenfive and laborious alche.
mical preparation, has been long loft to mankind. Not a fingle drop
can be produced under many weeks digestion; and the elements of
which it is composed are obtained with till greater labour and diffi
culty, being extracted from the four effential properties which com
pose the univerfal PABULUM of NATURE; whence it is neither
affected by change of weather or climate, nor by heat or cold; nor
does it fuffer any diminution of its firength or virtue by remaining
open, or uncorked. The difcovery of it has coff the Proprietor up
wards of ten years close application to practical chemistry. The
experiments he has made with it upon a variety of diseafed wretched
objects exceed belief.
For the RESTORATION of LIFE in CASES of SUDDEN
DEATH.
THose who have tudied the admirable construction of the
human machine, know that its diffolution cannot maturally
happen, but by a general decay of the whole fyftem, when the veffels
become impervious to the fluids, the circulation weakened or de
firoyed, and the vital organs no longer able to perform their office.
But when their functions are merely fuspended by fome fudden
shock, it may be likened to the state of a watch flopped by a fall,
which refumes its motion the instant that injury is repaired. In the
animal economy, “the "BLOOD is the LIFE;” therefore, if its
circulation be fufpended or destroyed, death follows. But if the
blood can be re-agitated, and its circulation resumed, life will of
neceflity be reftored. For this reafon, whenever any accident has
happened, by which fudden death appears to have taken place,
* Levit.xvii. 13, 14, Deut. xii. 23.
3
whether by blows, fits, falls, fuffocation, trangulation, drowning,
apoplexy, convulsion fits, thunder and lightning, duelling, or the
like, let the unfortunate perfon be carried into a warm house, and
laid by a fire, or put into a warm bed; let two or three table fpoon
fuls of the Solar Tincture be introduced as early as poffible into the
ftomach, and rubbed profusely in by a warm hand, upon the fpine
of the back, loins, breast, and region of the heart, and poured into
the wound, if there be any; the warm, stimulating quality of the
medicine, affifted by the external heat and friction, will quickly
roufe the stagnant blood and juices, particularly in the grand refer
voir, the heart; where, rarefying, prefing every way, and being
refifted by the valves, it will fuell fo as to fill the flaccid right
auricle of the heart, which by the shock had become empty and at
reft, and thus stimulating its fibres, will put them into motion. The
right auricle being thus filled, and ftimulated into contraction, fills
the ventricle, which by these means being irritated, likewife con
tracts and empties itself into the pulmonary artery; and the moment
this is done, the circulation begins again where it left off, and the
lungs, being thus filled by the dephlogisticated air contained in the
medicine, begin to act, and life is restored, provided the organs and
juices are in a fit disposition for it, which they undoubtedly are
much oftener than is imagined. Nor is this stimulating action of
the Tincture upon the heart at all furprising; for every medical
man knows, or ought to know, that the heart, even after it is taken
out of the body, if it be pricked with a pin, or hath warm water
thrown upon it, will beat afresh, and endeavour to exert its func
tions, though for fome time before it had been motionless. No
perfon, therefore, ought to be confidered dead, until the energy of
the blood is fo far gone that it can never again be agitated fo as to
fill and timulate into contraction the right /inus venofus and auricle
of the heart.
When the patient is thus far recovered, he ought to be treated
with great care and tenderness: and fome warm milk, wine and
water, elder-flower tea, or any nourishing fpoon meat, should be
given to him as foon as he appears capable of taking food. In fome
cases it may be neceffary to open the temporal artery and the exter
nal jugular, or to bleed in the arm; but this should never be done,
if it can fafely be diffenfed with, as it certainly weakens the animal
principle, which it is the first object of this medicine to strengthen.
Under different circumstances, and as particular occasions may re
quire, the rules recommended by the Humane Society will be found
of confiderable advantage. Above all, let me entreat an anxious
perfeverance in this fublimest of all virtues-the attempt to recover
perishing lives. Humanity calls for it in the most moving accents;
and, what can inspire a good heart with more fincere, perfect, con
fcientious, and commendable fatisfaction, than a retrospect of fuch
.ndeavours as have been generously exerted, and fuccessfully con
tributed to recover, perhaps to restore, the life of a fellow creature
from that most deprecated calamity, fudden death, with its alarming
retinue of threatening confequences to thofe who die unprepared?
fince, by thus preserving a finner to a future period, perhaps a foul
may immerge in full maturity to felicity which hall have no end.
To demonstrate the reanimating power of the medicine, experi
ments may be made upon a fowl, lamb, cat, dog, or any animal, '.
plunging them under water until they are apparently dead by fuf
focation, or an electrical shock; for fudden death, howeve it hap
4.
pens, whether by drowning or otherwife, is much the fame as to its
effects on the vital organs, confequently they are all to be treated
in a fimilar manner.
for the SCROPHULA, SCURWY, and all IMPURITIES
of the BLOOD and LYMPH. -
Those who have perused the Preparer's Medical and Philofophi
cal WORKS, will more readily credit the aflonishing powers of the
SoLARTINCTURE, which, in all cafes of inveterate fourvy, lepro
fy, king's evil, rheumatic gout, palfy, nervous affections, afthma,
confumption, dropsy, and in all disorders arifing from an impure or
impaired state of the blood, is a radical and certain cure.
“In the BLOOD is the LIFE/"—and no longer than is this vital
fiream kept in due circulation, pure and uncontaminated, can the
body be preferved in health and vigour. Hence the infinite variety
of complaints an affected tate of the blood induces, and hence the
new and deceptive forms a fcrophulous taint puts on, which often
deceive the mof eminent of the faculty, and baffle the best intentions
towards a cure. An impure or fcrophulous taint will remain in the
habit for years, nay, for generations, undifcovered; and will invade
the noblest organs of the human frame before the patient can be
aware of his danger. In the first stage of its visible effects, a weary
pain seizes the joints and muscles, attended with the wasting of the
legs and loins. In the fecond stage, the gums fuell, grow painful,
hot, and irritable, and bleed upon the flightest preffure; the roots of
the teeth become bare and loofe, and the breath naufeous. In the
third stage, the gums grow putrid, the teeth black and rotten, the
fublingular veins become varicofe, and the breath cadaverous; foetid
blood distils from the lips, gums, mouth, nose, lungs, stomach,
liver, fpleen, pancreas, intestines, womb, kidneys, &c. feabs and
ulcers break out in all parts of the body; and the joints, bones,
aud vifcera become morbid. In the fourth stage putrid, eruptive,
and fpotted fevers enfue, which end in an atrophy; or else follow
diarrhoeas, dyfentery, dropfy, confumption, palfy, contractions,
melancholy, and all the long and direful train of nervous diforders,
which to defcribe would fill a volume.
To counteract this most virulent of all chronic complaints, which,
fcripturally fpeaking, feems to contain the folemn fentence of
punishing the fins of the fathers upon their children, even to the third
and fourth generation, the utmost exertions of human skill have
been employed. The remedies prefcribed in its different stages are
almost innumerable The object is to reduce the virulence of the
infection, and to eradicate its feed from the blood and lymph; to
which end the mildest and most fimple medicines are recommended.
Mineral and tar waters, for their warm and stimulating quality;
milk or whey, from their fimilitude to the chyle; the cold baths,
or bracing the folids and quickening the circulation; antifcorbutic
vegetables, &c. for purging and funeetening the blood; fuch as
fcurvy-grass, water-crefles, wormwood, hemlock, centaury, vervain,
water-trefoil, juniper-berries, the Peruvian bark, faffafras, guaiacum,
aloes, affafoetida, camomile, diacordium, faffron, fenna, rhubarb,
manna, AEthiop's minerals, hartshorn, native cinnabar, antimony,
&c. But, when these fail, mercury, or a mercurial falivation, is
looked upon as the only cure; which, in fact, is but to give the
human frame its last vehement shock, and fend the wretched patient
in agonies to the grave!
The intention of these remedies is to impregnate the blood with
--- -- -------, *
5
qualities opposite to those with which it is infected; and this must
be done in a fuperior degree of force and power before a cure car.
be completed. But these medicaments are often administered under
fuch naufeous forms, and in fo crude and unqualified a state, that
they not only torture the patient, but miss entirely their intended
aim. The naufeous taste of medicine is nothing but its groffer par
ticles; which, inflead of entering the stomach, to irritate and op
prefs its organs, should be drawn off by chemical process; for it is
the occult virtue of every drug, not its groffer part, that performs
the cure. Now the peculiar property of the SoLARTINCTURE is,
that it combines the effential and occult virtues of all foorbutic ve
getables, ready digested, concocted, purified, and refolved into an
elegant balsamic effence, pleasing to the taste, and grateful to the
tomach. It flies immediately to the heart, whether internally or
externally applied, blends and affimilates with the venereal and ar
terial blood, which it generates, corrects, warms, purifies, ani
mates and impels through the whole fyftem. It cleanses all the
vifcera, and glandular parts, particularly the lungs and kidneys;
timulates the fibres, whereby the gastric juice and digestion are
promoted; diffolves wifcid humours, and expels infection. It exerts
very confiderable effects on the whole nervous fystem, fenfibly raises
the pulfe, trengthens the folids, and invigorates the animal fpirits
It penetrates into the most intimate parts, opens the mouths of the
minuter veffels, restores the natural perfpiration, and promotes all
the fluid fecretions. In every stage of this dreadful complaint, and
in all those fudden epidemical disorders which usually follow from
a wet, putrid, and unwholefome state of the atmosphere, it is an
absolute fpecific; and, as a PREVENTIVE, an ALTERATIVE,
and PURIFIER of the BLOOD, it has not its equal in the world.
D I R. E. C T I O N S.
In the first and fecond stages of this disorder, a fmall table-fpoon
ful of the Tincture, taken in a wine glass of cold fpring-water night
and morning, will prevent the further progress of the disease, and
in a very short time restore the blood to its healthful state, the effects
of which will be fo obvious to the patient, that he will be at no dif
ficulty when to difcontinue the medicine.
In the third stage, it is often requifite that the medicine be inter
nally and externally applied. The mouth should be frequently
washed with the Tincture diluted in warm water, and it will very
foon expel the poison from the gums. If the vifcera be in a morbid
flate, which may be known by the excrements, or foulness or ex
pectoration, it will be neceffary to take the medicine night and
morning, for feveral days, in the quantity of a table-fpoonful, un
diluted; and at noon a table-fpoonful in the fame quantity of warm
water. The feabs, whether dry or moist, should be frequently wash
ed with the Tincture undiluted, which, being absorbed by the mi
nuter veffels, and taken into the habit, will expel the humour, and
clear away the fourf. If tumours or foul ulcers occur, wash them
frequently with a dilution of the medicine in the fame quantity of
warm water, until the heat and virulence be abated: then apply the
Tincture undiluted, with lint, or fine rags, by which means the in
fectious matter will be totally eradicated, the blood and juices puri
fied, and the ulcers healed.
In the fourth stage, whatever may chance to be the fad malady to
which the diforder ultimately turns, a strict attention to Regimen,
Exercife, and fresh Air, as far as the firength and condition of the
6
patient will admit, must be particularly attended to. And in all
these cafes, the best and most fimple methods of treatment are laid
down in the Family Physician, to which I beg leave to refer every
patient in this dreadful flage of the diforder; and in aid of the ad
vice there given, let the Solar Tincture be regularly perfifted in
every night and morning, in the quantity of one table-fpoonful in as
much warm water; and at twelve o'clock at noon, take a table
fpoonful undiluted. Let this be continued eight or ten days; then
take a table-fpoonful diluted in warm water three times a day, viz.
morning, noon, and night, till the nerves and organs begin to re
fume their healthful tone; then let the doses be gradually abated to
a poonful in water every other morning, which should be continued
till health is perfectly re-established; and which, by God's blesfing,
will generally happen in these defperate cafes in the course of a
month, or fix weeks. -
As a preventive of all foul or fcrophulous taints in the habit, and
as an alterative and purifier of the blood, it may be occañonally
taken every other morning for a week together, particularly in the
fpring and fall, in the quantity of a table-fpoonful in a wine glass of
cold fpring water: or it may be occasionally taken as a beverage
after dinner or fupper, mixed in a tumbler with warm water, and
made palatable with fugar. It will be found pleafant to the taste,
and grateful to the fomach, fuperior to any fpirits or punch.
Of COMMON MALADIES.
THE warm and renovating qualities of the Solar Tincture render
it the best medicine for relaxation, debility, laffitude, tremors, fink
ing of the spirits, and all those nervous affections which harafs and
oppress the weak, fedentary, and delicate; and are often the con
fequence of high living and luxurious indulgence, without bodily
exercife and fresh air. In all thefe cafes, the Solar Tincture is
calculated to warm and teady the cold tremulous nerves; to heath
and invigorate the mufcular fyftem; to animate the fpirits, and re
novate the whole man; whereby the chilled watery fluids become rich
and balíamic, and the circulation refumes its healthful tate. It is
an infallible cure for the joint aches, cramp, fpafms, rheumatic
gout, nervous head-ach, agues, and all diforders arifing from ob
ftructed perfpiration. In complaints of the breaft, flomach, and
bowels, it gives immediate relief; and in asthmatic and confumptive
cafes, is an elegant and expeditious cure. It will stop mortification
in very advanced stages, by expelling the poifonous matter, and cor
recting the juices of the whole body. It requires no argument to
convince, more than a fingle trial; after which, no families who
value their health or life will choose to be without it.
As the Reanimating Solar Tincture is both a corroborant and
bracer of the mufcular and nervous fyftem, and the habit of many
perfons being too costive, the Doctor is induced to recommend in
fuch cafes the use of his Opening Powders twice a week. The
Powders are fold by every vender of the above medicine, at two
ihillings and fixpence a packet, with directions.
TABES DORSALIS.
THE confumption incident to young perfons of falacious dispo
ñtions, is fo little treated of by the ancient practitioners of medi
cine, as well as through the delicacy of modern physicians, that an
adequate idea of it cannot be collected from their writings. It is
neceffary then to fay, that the first fymptoms of the Tabes Dor/alis
7
are easily discerned by involuntary nocturnal feminal emisions; pains
lin the back, as well as often in the head; formication of the fpine;
aching pains, and laxness of the teflicular arteries; weakness of
fight; defect of memory; a mucous discharge from the urethra after
excremental exertions, which are fucceeded by an extreme dejection
of the mental faculties; and, contingent to these, are an incurable
gutta-ferena; meagre visage; emaciated body; irregular asthmatic
fenfations, which, preceding a fyndrome of hectical complaints,
ultimately close the fatal catastrophe.
What can produce fuch alarming indications of immature debi
lity ? Is it the unfeemly practice, the folitary vice, which reason,
which nature condemns ? Suffice it to fay, that it is highly incum
bent on those who have the care of feminaries to beware of the
hidden evil—the Onanian mischief—and prevent its growth ! The
Physician's duty is to prescribe a cure to the already afflicted.
The Solar Tincture, by its fortening, healing, and tonic qualities,
as well as by its prolific and falutary effects, affords a fure profpect
of returning strength, and a certain hope of muscular invigoration,
to thofe who can have fufficient refolution to defift from the baneful
practice.
G E N E R A L D I R. E. C T I O N S
For REANIMATION, and for all SCORBUTIC CASES,
and IMPURITIES of the BLOOD-fee under their re
/pective heads.
ScRoPHULA AND w EAK Co NSTITUTION.
SIR, Academy, Wantage, Berks.
To you (who profess to be the friend of man) it must undoubtedly
be peculiarly fatisfactory to hear of the efficacy of a medicine, with
the difcovery of which you have been honoured by the Parent of the
Universe. I am in the number of those who have experienced the
beneficial effects of your Solar Tincture, for which I defire to be
thankful to God, and to return you my warmett acknowledgments.
I have, from my childhood, been afflicted with a fcorbutic complaint,
attended with a nervous diforder, which first difcovered itself by
weak eyes, and cutaneous eruptions, in different parts of my body
but with greater virulence in my face. As I grew in years, the dif
order increased, which induced me, at the age of 16, to read phy
fical books, in order to obtain a remedy. The medicine I fixed of.
was Cream of Tartar; but, foolishly fupposing that the more I took
the fooner I should obtain a cure, I drank it constantly in water witn
my meals, till at length my blood became fo thin, that, without any
extraordinary exertion, my nofe has bled to fuch a degree, as
to render it neceffary to stop up my nostrils with tow, flour,
&c. I then found it neceffary to defit from the use of thismedicine;
but not fatisfied to continue in my then difagreeable fate, without
fome effort to obtain relief, I took artificial Cheltenham water, but
to little better purpose than the former. About this time, I had
the misfortune to kick my ancle, which, from a flight feratch, pre
fently became a wound, accompanied with a very violent humour,
extending from the fole of the foot to the knee. This fubjected me
to confinement and inactivity for nearly a year and a half. At this
period I began upon Maredant's Drops, which did me confiderable
fervice; afterwards I had recourse to Dr. Waites's Gingerbread
Nuts, but finding little benefit I defifted from the use of medicine.
In the mean time, having a great deal of business upon my hands,
8
-------, -
and rifing very early to tudy, I contracted a nervous head-ach,
which was fo violent as to render it painful for me to hear or play
upon the Piano Forte. In the autumn of 92, I again had recourse
to medicine, but could not obtain a cure. About Michaelmas I
raw your advertifement, and bought a bottle of the Solar Tincture,
from which I experienced fo much benefit as induced me to continue
in the use of it. I have taken nine bottles, and hope, by a little
longer continuance in the use of it, to obtain a perfect cure.
I am, Sir, with due respect, your humble fervant,
JOSEPH DEAR,
[See Dr. SIBLY's MEDICAL MIRRoR, p. 118.]
-
For WEAK NERVES and LOWNESS of SPIRITS.
TAKE a table-fpoonful of the Tincture, diluted in an equal quan
tity of cold foring water, every forenoon, at eleven or twelve
o'clock, or fourteen succeffive days; then use it every two or three
days for a month, and the complaint will be entirely relieved, as
patients will fensibly feel, by their alertness, activity, and unusual
flow of natural spirits. -
SIR,-I have for fome years, laboured under a fcorbutic taint of
blood, with fpurious windy complaints; within thefe few months also
my legs began to well,and eruptionsbroke out in them toavery alarm
Ing degree. Being nearly eighty years of age, I almost defpaired of
receiving any relief from medicine, till I was prevailed on to make
trial of your Sol.ARTINCTURE. After fome perfuasion, I confent
ed; and, though bro:ght to your house in a coach (for I was not
able to walk) for your advice, I made use of your Solar Tincture,
according to the printed directions, and was able, not only to walk,
but my legs returned to their usual fize, perfectly recovered, and the
foorbutic complaint totally removed.
I think, in justice to fo valuable a medicine, I could not do other
wife than request you to publish my cafe, and the wonderful cure
on one fo aged and debilitated. I am, &c.
Robinfon's Lane, Chel/ea. J. GARDINER.
[See MEDICAL MIRRoR, p. 122.]
-
For MUSCULAR DEBILITY, or an ENFEEBLED
CONSTITUTION.
LET the patient take one table-fpoonful night and morning, for
mine days, in an equal quantity of warm water; then reduce it to
one fpoonful per day, for nine days more; after which, the quan
tity of one fpoonful in a glafs of cold fpring water every other day,
for ten days, will usually be fufficient. It may afterwards be taken
every two or three days, as the patient may himself think neceffary,
or as the state of his constitution may feem to require, which he will
find furprisingly recovered, his mufcular ftrength and vigour returned,
and all the fluid fecretions promoted and restored. Should it be fuf
pected that any impure taint is lurking in the blood, either from the
lues venerea badly cured, or the dangerous use of mercurial remedies,
it will be neceffary to continue the medicine for a longer time, and
never to omit taking it every fpring and fall. The reason for this is,
that when mercury does not cure, it fixes the difeafe firongly in the
habit, and the patient is ever after fubject to the ferophula.
SIR.—It will give you fome degree of pleasure to be informed that I
am arrived to that icidity of health, which not only renders my life com
fortable, but exceeds my most fanguine expectation. It strikes me with
9
altonishment, when I look back and confider what a poor emaciated
creature I was for fixteen years and an half; how my complaints have
baffled the most skilful of the faculty; the multiplicity of Crude Drugs,
Potions, and prefcriptions of various forts I have taken, and that none
ofthese rendered me the least service. I say, I wonder and am lost in
aftonishment, at the extraordinary power and efficacy of your Re
animating Solar Tincture : it truly may be called the PABULUM of LIFE;
for unto this medicine alone I now owe my existence, by removing every
malady, and making one who once was poor, lean, and consumptive,
now fleshy and robust; fo that those who formerly knew me can hardly
believe me to be the fame perfon fince my cure: your medicine has
performed a prodigy, almost a miracle! I hould wish you to fend me a
large bottle of Tincture by the bearer, as I defire to have one by me;
and when you print a new edition of your MEDICAL MIRRok, you
will do me the favour to infert my cafe. I think it a duty I owe to your
invaluable medicine, and my afflicted fellow creatures, after so fingular
a recovery, to satisfy every enquirer.
That your merit and goodness of heart may be rewarded in this
world, as well as in the world to come, is the fincere wish of,
Alder/gate Street, Your truly devoted humble Servant,
No. 15. EDWARD SIDDALL.
[See MED1cAL MIRRoR, p. 122.]
TABES DORSALIS, DISEASES of the BREAST and
LUNGS, ASTH MA, DROPSY, or CONSUM PTION.
TAKE one table-spoonful of the Tincture, night and morning, for
twenty days £ diluted in two spoonfuls ofcold spring water;
then reduce it to the fame dose every other day, which will generally
remove the malady in the course ofa month; but if the Dropsy or Con
fumption has been far advanced, it will be neceffary to continue the me
dicine for one, two, or even three months longer, reducing the number
of doses in proportion as health and trength appear to return, and as the
blood shall have resumed its preper confiftency and a brisker circulation.
In these complaints, it will not be amifs to take the Tincture in a tum
bler of warm water, as a beverage, for fome time after the cure is per
fected, as it will infallibly prevent the blood from returning to its wa
tery and impoverished state, and will rarefy and expel the viscid cohe
fions in the pulmonary veffels. -
“To J. R. SAFFELL.
“SIR,- I take this opportunity of returning you thanks for your
valuable Medicine, the SoLAR TINCTURE. My Wife was taken
violently ill with Pains in her Limbs, Shortness of Breath, and appa
rently in a very rapid Decay of Conftitution. I was recommended by
Mr. Thomas, Royal Arcade, Pall Mall, to make trial ofyour invaluable
Medicine, when, to my utter aftonishment, one Family Bottle restored
her to perfect Health. Any person may be satisfied of the above fact,
by “Your obedient fervant,
“R. DAINTRY,
“Jan. 1, 1818.” “11, Houghton Street, Clare Market.
-
For AGUES, CONVULSIONS, CHOLIC, BLOODY
FLUX, and violent DISORDERS of the STOMACH
and BOW ELS.
DURING the fit, let one or two table-fpoonfuls of the Tincture, undi
luted,be administered succeffively, as the extremity of the cafe may re
quire; and afterwards, let the patient continue the medicine, night and
1O
morning, in the quantity of a table-spoonful in a wine-glass of warm
water, or oftener, as the obstinacy of the case may require; and in a
very short time a perfect cure will be experienced.
SIR,-I am persuaded that whatever tends to promote the use ofyour
excellent medicine must conduce to the public good. Amongthe variety
of cases for which your Reanimating Solar Tincture is recommended,
was informed it was very salubrious for the nervous head-ache. I
have repeatedly tried its efficacy, and, by a bare external application,
instantly found relief. I cannot, therefore, refrain giving my testimony
to so valuable a discovery.
I am, Sir, your obliged humble fervant,
FALKLAND.
[See Medical MIRROR, p. 136.]
To J. R. SAFF E LL.
SIR,-When I confiderthe wonderful effects I have known produced
by your Solar TINcture, I am lost in astonishment, and you may,
with propriety, challenge itagainst all other medicines. The Solar Tinc
ture alone, in my own case, restored me to my present health, from a
Consumption, which had refited the skill of several eminent Physi
cians; the particulars you know: and it has recently had a wonderful
effect on my wife's mother, Mrs. Wills, who, at the critical period of
fifty years, wasattacked by a dreadful cough, day and night, loss of ap
petite, total absence of rest, though unable to fit up. However, to the
aftonishment of her friends and the Doctor, who had deemed her past
recovery, the Solar Tincture restored her to her perfect health in three
weeks. The above can be well attested by Mr. Wilson, draper, Ro
chester Bank. I am willing to satisfy any person of the above fact, and
fincerely wish so valuable a Medicine was more universally known for
the good of mankind.—I am, with great respect,
Your obedient fervant and well wisher,
WILLIAM THOMAS,
Nov. 10, 1816. No. 15, New Bond Street.
SIR,
For many years I have had a return ofthat violent and afflictive dif
order called the Rheumatic Gout, which for a certain space oftime every
year has confined me to my chamber; I have fought relief from many
medicines, but found none, which occasioned me to refort two or three
months a year to the South of France, where fome of my relations re
fided; but the unhappy troubles there impeded my usual visit to that
country. Hearing about three years back ofthe '' cures performed
by your Solar Tindure, I resolved to make trial of a bottle, which,
procuring asionishing relief, I made use of three bottles more, following
the printed directions, and was perfectly recovered: and as the old
Adage says, “prevention is better than a cure,” I have for these two
years past made use of one large bottle of the Tincture, a little before
the time I expected so disagreeable a visitor: this precaution prevented
the least symptom of a return.
You have my permisfion (if you think proper) not only to publish my
case, but to refer any person labouring under fimilar excruciating com
plaints: and fremain, with esteem, your humble servant,
Baker:/treet, Portman/quare. JAMES FITZHENRY.
[See MEDICAL MIRRok, p. 133.]
-
For the RHEUMATISM, CRAMPS, JOINT-ACHES,
HEAD-ACHE, and all DISORDERS arijing from
OBSTRUCTED PERSPIRATION.
Rus the Tincture well in with a warm hand upon the pained or dif
11
eafed part, and take at the same time one table-spoonful in the same
: of cold pring-water, and the pain will almost immediately sub
ide. In violent nervous head-aches, let the forehead, temples, and
crown of the head be well rubbed with it, and a table-spoonful taken in
a wine-glass of cold spring-water, and the cure will be obvious in less
than two minutes. -
-
'or CUTS, STABS, WOUNDS, BITE of a MAD DOG
or any VENOMOUS REPTILE.
Mix afmall quantity of the Tincture in warm water, and with a soft
rag wash well the affected part; then apply as much lint, wet with the
Tincture, as will fill the wound; repeat the same two or three times,
and the cure will be effected. For the bite of a mad dog, be very care
ful in well washing out the part bitten; and to stop the progress of the
hydrophobia, fivallow immediately one spoonful of the Tincture undi
luted, and let the part be well soaked with the medicine every fix hours
for three days, and a safe and perfect cure will be performed.
S1R,
, I have, for these last two years, had a defire to write to you concern
ing the benefit we have received at different times from your Reani
mating Solar Tincture, having used it as the chief Medicine for fourteen
years; but I believe I should not have written now, had I not been re
commended by a friend, who thought it a duty due to your invaluable
Tincture, to make the following Cures known. My mother was smatch
ed from the jaws of death, and restored to her former health, by taking
the Solar Tincture. I cannot justly state her complaint, but will asnear
as I can. She was very fuddenly, to our great furprise, deprived of her
fenses, but still had strength to walk about the house; her speech foon
failed her, and in a short time there was every reason to think her diffo
lution was near. We immediately had recourse to the Solar Tincture,
though there feemed very little hopes of her recovery. Our neighbours
endeavoured to comfort us in our distress, while we, her children, stood
around her,anxiously waiting the event; when, to our astonishment and
joy, she began to recover; and I believe the Solar Tincture, with the
blesfing of God, to be the means of her now being in this world. She
continued to take the Tincture for about three weeks, and is now per
fectly recovered; fince then, it has been held in great esteem by our
family, though we valued it before, as we have had so many proofs of
its value, and seldom use any other medicine.--My brother has also
received great benefit by taking it. He was taken fuddenly ill, and was
thought to be in great danger; he laboured under fome inward pains;
but by taking the Solar Tincture was restored.—His wife was afflicted
with something ofa gouty complaint, having frequent fevere attacks in
the stomach; and, I believe, had it not been for her taking the Tinc
ture, he would long ago have been in her grave; she has been fre
uently brought to death's door, but has always been relieved by the
£child was also ill, and, to all appearance, in the ago
nies of death; but, to the astonishment of all present, by giving her the
Tincture, was restored. We do not exactly know what her complaint
was, but think it was convulfions.—My fifter got very much hurt last
October; she was in a dangerous state, and could not be moved in bed,
but the Solar Tincture restored her.—I myself was thought to be very
far gone in a decline, but the Tincture soon restored me to health. In
fhort, we have had fo many instances of its good effects, for fourteen
years, fince we had the happiness to meet with this valuable restorative
12
of nature, that we recommend it to all our friends, and firmly believeit
to be the first medicine in the world. My fifter was the perfon who
persuaded Mrs. Mary Poynton to take the Tincture, which performed
fuch a wonderful Cure on her.—You are at liberty to make the above
known, in any way you may think proper: and I remain, with the
greatest gratitude and refpect,-Your humble Servant,
Conningsby, June 18, 1806. SARAH SAMYMAN.
-
For STOPPING MORTIFICATION.
If in any violent tumour, wound, ulcer, or fracture, before or after
amputation, a mortification should come on, bathethe part well with the
Tincture every four hours, and give the patient a table-spoonful at the
fame intervals in a wine-glass of warm-water, for forty-eight hours, and
the mortification will not only fubfide, but the cure will be amazingly
forwarded, and in many cases entirely completed.
For a RECENT COUGH or COLD.
TAKE one spoonful in a wine-glass of cold fpring-water, night and
morning, and a cure will be experienced in two or three days.
[See Medical Mirror, p. 134.—The Plate of the Heart, coloured.]
-
PAINS in the STOMACH, CONVULSIONS, AGUE, &c.
SIR,
The £ are the great cures which have been performed and
effected by the use and virtue of your most valuable Reanimating Solar
Tindure alone, in MARsroN, Lincoln's HIRE.
Mr. Rich ARD HARMstone, Wheelwright, in Marston, having been
afflicted with a violent pain in his stomach, for feveral years, got worfe
and worse, until the pain became infupportable; he applied to my fa
ther, who gave him only one large spoonful ofyour SoLARTINCTURE
undiluted, which made a perfect cure, arl he has never had the fmallest
fymptoms of any pain in his stomach fince that time.
ElizaBETH HARMsTone, the daughter ofthe above-mentioned Mr.
Richard Harmstone, a child about nine years old, was taken exceed
ingly ill indeed; great quantities of blood gushed out of her nose and
mouth, at feveral different times; her arms and legs, and other parts of
her body, were almost covered with blue fpots, which they called the
Purples; the child was thrown into convulfions, and given up by the
faculty for death; and every person with the child thought that diffolu
tion must inevitably take place. They applied to my father for a bottle
of your Solar Tinéture, and they gave the child only one small bottle,
which effected a perfect cure, and the child is now restored to her for
mer good state of health.
REUBEN MITTEN, a labouring man in Mayflon, going from thence
to Sleaford, on business for his master—he, calling at an inn in Sleaford,
was introduced into a room where there were three or four people who
were afflicted with what they called the AGUE AND FEN Illness; at
this time there were two children dead in Sleaford-Reuben Mitten
caught the infection-came home to Marston, and was exceeding ill in
deed–lost his appetite—unable to go to his daily labour—he was feen
to go into his master's stable, and there rolling himself on the ground,
and moaning in the greateft agonies.-This poor man being informed
by one of his neighbours of the great virtues of your Solar, Tinture,
they applied to my father-he went to the poor man's house, found him
in bed in the greatest agonies; he gave him, however, only one large
table spoonful of your Solar Tincture undiluted, and the next morning
declared he was cured, and went to his daily labour; he has been able
to work ever fince that time.
13
WILLIAM Hopson, fervant man to Mr. Rop ER, of Mar/lon, was
violently afflicted with the AGUE, infomuch that he was unable to do his
work, imagining that he must certainly leave his place and go home—he
was exceeding ill; but he being informed of the great virtues of your
Solar 7indure, he applied to my father, who gave him three large table
fpoonfuls, which he took undiluted, at three feveral times—he was per
fectly cured of his illness, and as healthful as ever he had been in hislife.
Most of these cases, Sir, I have received from the patients them
felves, and have put them down exactly as they were stated unto me.
Mavenby, Lincoln/hire. J. PARKINS.
“To J. R. SAFFELL.
“SIR,--I think, in justice to your invaluable Medicine the SoLAR
TINCTURE, I am called upon to acknowledge the signal advantage I have
derived from taking it. My case was that of the Yellow Jaundice: by the
use of one small bottle my symptoms were all changed, and, by taking a
second, so far removed, as not to apprehend a return of the complaint, and
by a little continuance I entirely regained my health and strength. I find
it equally serviceable in the Rheumatism, a complaint I have long been
afflicted with, and, by the use ofyour excellent Medicine, am now entirely
free from it. “I am, Sir, your respectful and obedient servant,
“Derby,9th January 1819.” * S. SHAW.
SIR,
To continue filent, after the many extraordinary instances offuccess I
have witnessed from your truly valuable Solar Tincture, would be the
extreme of ingratitude; a conduct I would earnestly desire to avoid.
In my own family, Sir, I have occasionally used it for the last three
years, and have derived infinite satisfaćtion from the fuccess attendant
upon my recommendation of it to others. In fits, and bowel com
plaints (particularly incident to children), I have, on administering the
Tincture, found almost instant relief; nor is it less efficacious in the
Hooping Cough. I was induced to use it for this truly disagreeable
malady, by your having, in your short treatise, described it as being a
£ of the lungs, viscera, &c.
This reminds me of a very fingular instance of success which occurred
about two months ago.—The child ofone Thomas Deadman was forely
attacked by a violent cold, which terminated in an inflammation on its
lungs; an Apothecary, of great refpectability, attended it, and, to my
knowledge, gave up all hopes of saving the child's life. In the awful
interval of extreme apprehension and slender hope, a tea-spoonful of
Tincture, with as much water, was given her: this foon occasioned the
child to open its eyes, which she had not done for two days preceding.
Encouraged by this circumstance, I earnestly recommended a further
supply, one tea-spoonful of Tincture to two of water, every two hours.
In a very short time the danger was over : the child now lives in
apparent health and strength.—if the attestation of the parents will, in
your opinion, tend to increase the knowledge of the Tincture's efficacy,
they will most gratefully come forward, whenever you please.
As a typtic, it is invaluable; and, in violent bruises and contusions,
one trial only will be fufficient, having been in no one instance disap
pointed, when properly administered. I already anticipate much plea
fure in trying its £ Powers on Animals, agreeable to your
hints in the Treatife.
Ea/l/treet, Kennington. I am, Sir, &c. T. BENNETT.
N. B. A medical friend of mine in Effex writes me word, that he
has used the Tincture with much fuccess in agues. As he has laid afide
his former prejudices against it (by candidly trying its powers), I hope,
and indeed expect, that he will be of great fervice to you.
An Extraordinary Cure recently effected by DR. SIBLY'S
REANIMATING SOLAR TINCTURE.
“ 17th February, 1832.
“DEAR SIR,-Being, about ten years ago, in a very nervous debilitated state,
I was induced to make trial of your Sola R Tinct URE, and found the benefit re
sulting from its use to exceed my most sanguine expectations. 1 have also been
witness to the extraordinary effects produced by the use of the Sola RTINCTURE
on a beloved friend, Mrs. Sims, of No. 6, Sandford-place, East-street, Old Street
road: she had been, for upwards of two years, in delicate, declining health ; she
was latterly confined to her bed, and the Physician who attended her declared
that the whole College could not cure her. From the good I had myself experi
enced, I persuaded her husband to make trial of the TinctURE: she was, at this
time, evidently sinking; her legs were cold, though wrapped in flannel, and no
hopes were entertained from Medical Assistance. She began by taking a table
spoonful diluted in warm water in the evening, and repeated the dose every two
hours until the morning. The effect produced was, that, about an hour after
the first dose, she gradually grew warm; a perspiration came on ; and from this
time the pain in her stomach subsided, and she recovered strength: her appetite
returned, and in the course of a week she was enabled to eat animal food, and
has ever since continued to enjoy good health. Any person making inquiry at
the above address may be satisfied of the truth of this statement; and I wish you
to make it public, for the good of those similarly affected.
“I remain, your's respectfully,
“C. BARREN,
* To J. R. SArfell.” “No. 2, Ironmonger Passage, St. Luke’s.”
Let it not be objected, that because this medicine appears to be pre
fcribed for many disorders, it can be good for none; because every com
plaint for which it is recommended originates in the blood, or in ol/truded
per/piration. The action of the SOLAR TINCTURE is on the
Blood and Juices; it strikes at the ROOT, not at the BRANCHES;
by which peculiar advantage it effects a cure when other medicines fail.
Whoever takes the trouble to peruse the Author's MEDICAL MIRRoR,
being a Treatise on the Generation of the Human Species, and the
Principles of Life and Death, calculated to shew the Virtue and Effi
cacy ofthis Medicine, will be convinced of the above facts.
Caution.
WHEREAS certain Persons assume to be Proprietors of
the Recipes for preparing DR. S. BLY's SoLAR and LUNAR
TINCTUREs, under the Will of the late Dr. Sibly;—This is to
caution the Public against purchasing the above Medicines of
any Person or Persons so professing to be possessed of the Re
cipes for preparing them; they not having been bequeathed by
the Will of the said Dr. S1Bly, but communicated by him, in
June 1799, to Mr. CHARLEs WILsoN SAFFELL, and his Son
John Rich ARD SAFFELL, and no other Perfon or Perfons;
Mr. CHARLEs WilsoNSAFFELL having paid a valuable Con
sideration for the same (viz. upwards of £2000).
JOHN RICHARD SAFFELL prepared the SoLAR and
LUNARTINCTUREs for his Father, till his Death in June
1816: since that Time, they have been prepared and sold by
him, being the only Person in Possession of the true Method of
making the same, which are well known, throughout the United
Kingdoms, as the only Genuine Medicines.
N.B.—To prevent Impositions, the Proprietor signs his
Name, “J. R. SAFFELL,” on the Wrapper of every Bottle
No others are Genuine.
SoLAR TINcru RE WAREHouse, removed to No. 11, Hall Place,
Lower Kennington Lane, Surrey.
DEC. 1834.
15
THE LUNAR TINCTURE,
Prepared by Dr. SIBLY;
And peculiarly adapted to the FEMALE SEX.
THIS medicine, in its renovating quality and action on the blood,
participates much of the Solar Tincture; but there are circumstances
attending the bodily conformation and temperature of females, very
opposite and distinct from those of the males, which require, in the
different periods and fituations of their lives, the nicest and most cri
tical aid to fulfil in them the primary ordination of the Creator.
To commit in detail to the vulgar eye an enumeration of those par
ticular cases, or to shew how admirably the LUNARTINCTURE
is adapted to them, particularly at the TURN of LIFE, would be
ex'remely improper. For this reason, an ESSAY on the DISEASES
of WOMEN, through every stage of their lives, as well in marriage
as in celibacy, is sealed up, and given with each bottle; with proper
directions for the cure of those /ecret infirmities which delicacy often
forbids to disclose, even to their nearest relatives.
In order fairly and completely to prove the wonderfulefficacy of this
medicine, the Author, in his Pamphlet on the PRINCIPles of LIFE and
DEATH, which is fold by every bookseller, has shewn the natural gene
ration of the human species, from conception to the birth; from which
is defined the admixture of the male and female tinctures; the true
causes of hereditary or constitutional complaints; the manner in which
the foetus is formed, quickened, nourished, and sustained by its mother;
the wonderful sympathy betwixt them; the cause of marks, moles,
breeding fickness, faintings, abortion, and all the various indispositions
attendant on a flate of Pregnancy, which the LUNAR TINCTURE
will either prevent or effectually cure. No Female, after perufing the
above Pamphlet, and being convinced that, from certain casual ob
fructions, they may date a deprivation of health, beauty, and spirits,
which this medicine is calculated to preserve, will ever choose to be
without it.
The SOLAR TINCTURE, in bottles, at 7s.6d., 11s., and family
bottles at 22s., containing nearly three of the 11s.; and the LUNAR
TINCTURE, in bottles at 4s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.,are prepared and sold by
J. R. SAFFELL, removed to 11, Hall Place, Lower Kennington Lane.
Sold, wholesale, by BARCLAY and SoNs, 95, Farringdon Street,
London; and may be had of Newbury and Sons, 45, and Edwards, 67,
St. Paul's Church Yard; Sutton and Co., Bow Church Yard; Johnson,
68, Cornhill; Stradling, Royal Exchange Gate; Stirling, 86, Whitecha
pel; Sanger, 150, Chandler and Co., 76, and Olding, 26, Oxford Street;
Rowland, 260, Tottenham Court Road; Prout, 229, Gifford, 104, Bur
field, 180, and Chapman, 406, Strand; Tompson, 15, Blackmore-street,
Clare Market; Heudebourck, 326, Middle Row, Holborn; Dickins, 80,
Holborn Bridge; Colk, 29, Fleet-street; Blake, 47, Knaggs and Co., 35,
and Hanson and Co., 164, Piccadilly; Cobbe, 31, and Grignon, 174,
Regent-street; Cocking, 19, Great Portland-street; Bowden, 24, Judd
street; Cole, 52, and Watts, 106, Edgeware Road; Glanville, 104, Edge
ware Road, Paddington; Garnett, Welbeck-street; Smith, Brown-street,
Bryanston-square; Jull, 31, London-street, Fitzroy-square; Potts, 55,
South Audley-street; Sharwood, 55, Bishopsgate iWithout; Smith, 59,
Barbican; Harvey, 68, and Norton and Lowc, 47, Blackfriars Road;
G. Olding, 159, High-street, Borough ; B. Rouse, Wellington-street,
High-street, Borough, Tozer, Greenwich; Morton, Hampstead.—And
16
at the following places in the country: by Hoff, Spilsby; Albin, Spald.
ing; Thornhill, Sleaford, Wells, Billinghuy: Blackbourn, Coningsby;
Drury, Lincoln; Drury and Sons, ditto; Ridge, Newark; Drakard,
Stamford; Heaton and Bains, Leeds; Egar, Upwell; Todd and Orton,
Sheffield, Drewry, Derby; Ford, Chesterfield; Barker, Mottershead;
Vaughan and Son, and Goadsby and Sons, Manchester; Wales and Co.,
Maynard, Butler and Chapman, Baylis, Warren and Aspinall, Liverpool;
Beilby and Knott, Wood and Cowell, Birmingham; Deighton and Co.,
Carr and Marsh, York; Fouracre, Walker and Sons, Washbourn and
Co., Fream and Prosser, Gloucester; Fry and Co., Richardson and
Board, Miller and Searle, Bristol; Samson, Dawe, and Williams,
Swansea; Deighton, Lewis, and E. Evans, Worcester: Nettleton, Ply
mouth; Hoxland, Devonport; Merridew, and Rollason, Coventry; Ba
bington, Horncastle; Sims, Stockport; Larkworthy, Weymouth; Mrs.
Binns, Bath; Brodic and Co., Printers, Salisbury; E. Button, Walling
ford; Harmer, Ipswich; Meggy and Chalk, Chelmsford; Swinfen and
Co., Leicester; Hodson, Cambridge; Ward and Co., Pollock and Co.,
and Bewlay and Co., Dublin; Grattan and Co., Hodgson, and Kelly,
Limerick; Dargaville, and Hayes, Cork; and by all Retailers of Patent
Medicines in Town and Country.
AN INTERESTING WORK,
WHICH NO FAM1LY OUGHT TO BE WITHouT,
juff publihed, price only Seven Shillings and Sixpence,
Beautifully printed on Whatman's Wove Paper, and illustrated with
FIFTEEN superb and beautiful Copper Plates,
A NEW AND ELEGANT EDITION OF THE
MEDICAL MIRROR;
Treating of the OR1G IN of DISEAsE, and its CURE in the following
and many other Cases:
Agues, Diarrhoea, Lowness of Spirits,
Apoplexy, Diseafes, hereditary and ac-Melancholy,
Afthma, cidental, Menstrual Evacuations,
Atrophy, on Nervous Con- Difeates of the Breast and Nervous Complaint ,
Barrennefs, [fumption, Lungs, Nocturnal Infirmities pro
Bilious Disorders, Dropfy, duced by Onanifm,
Bite of the Mad Dog, Epilepsy, [gences, Palfy,
Bloody Flux, Excess of libidinous indul- Pregnancy (different flages
Bruises, internal and ex- Female Complaints, of),
Cholic, [ternal, Flatulencies, Rheumatic Gout,
Conftitution enfeebled, Gout, - Scrophula, or King's Evil,
Confumptions, - Head-ach, Seminal Weakness, -
Convulfions, Hypochondria, Spafms,
Coughs, Hysteric Complaints, Stabs and Gunshot Wounds,
Cramps, Impurities of Blood and Tabes Dorfalis,
Debility, muscular and ner- Lymph, Worms,
vous, Indigestion, Yellow Jaundice.
Elucidating also the Principles of Life and DEATH.
By EBENEZER SIBLY, M.D.
Printed for the Author; and sold by J. R. SAFFELL, Solar Tinc
ture Warehouse, removed to No. 11, Hall Place, Lower Kennington
Lane; and Meffrs. BARcLAY and SoNs, Farringdon Street.
Sold also by the Booksellers in Town and Country; and by every
Vender who fells the Medicines. -
Compton & Ritchie, Printers, Middle Street, Cloth Fair. f
