{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__curtiss___mystic_life.pdf","mytitle":"Mystic Life","mylang":"de"}
rbe J*1ptjt
AN INTRODUCTION TO PRACTjC
CHRISTIAN MYSTICISM
Br
ILI.RRIEZ-rE AUGUSTA CURTISS
AND
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M. D.
Co-founders of The Order of Cbi,,j4 Myitic,
and
The Univeuaj Re1i1j0, Foundation, Inc.
Authors of "The Curtjss Books."
Second Edition
Compiled by
Mt Itnt L. Cte*sspzon
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC
BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C., U. S. A.
1936
Copyright, 1934, by
THE UNiVERSAL RELIGIOUS FOUNDATION,
INc
Translation and All Other Rights
Reserved.
LONDON AGENTS
L N. Fowler & Co.
7. Imperial Arcade. Ludgate Circus,
E. C 4.
CONTENTS
PREFAcE y
TUE MYsTIc L1n 1
THE PATH OF DISCIPLESHIP 34
ILLUMINATION 52
THE Mvsrzc CHRIST. 66
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DAILY LI}t 92
APPENDIX
Announcement of the Order 101
The Fellowship of the Order of
Christian Mystics 102
Organizations 108
As to Other Movements 109
Special Objects of the Order 117
Financial Obligations 122
The Object of Study Classes 127
How to Form a Study Class 128
Order of Service 133
The Prayers of the Order 134
Literature 140
Index 145
in
PREFACE
THE
Teachings of The Order of
Christian Mystics (also known as
The Order of the Fifteen), of which the
following pages form a part, have been
issued privately to students each month
continuously since 1908. In view of their
great value to the spiritual growth of
these students, who now comprise resi-
dents of over seventy different countries
of the world, this booklet is issued so that
the Teachings may be more widely in-
troduced to the general public in popular
form.
A description of the aims and objects
of this non-sectarian, uplifting, unifying,
spiritual movement will be found in the
Appendix herein.
V
Ifje *Ip%tft Zifr
CHAPTER I
How CHRISTIAN Mysricis,z SoLVES THE
Woau PRoBLEMs1
The life of cause!.
THE Mystic Life is the life of causes,
the life of realization, the life of the
Soul, the manifestation of the inner
through the outer. It is called mystical
because it is a manifestation of a mys-
tery; for all life is a mystery. All mani-
festation comes from the unseen. All
the myriad forms we see around us in
Nature appear from out the unseen, ap-
parently self-generated. For there is no
life, consciousness, nor creative and
formative power in matter itself. Mat-
ter is only the substance with which us-
lAn address delivered by F. Homer Curtis,,
11. D., Co.founder of The Order of Chridia%
Mjshcs, before the Second Parliament pf Re.
ligions of the World Fellowship of Faiths at
the Morrison Hotel in Chicago at 8 p.u., on
September 13th. 1933.
1
2 The Mystic Life
seen forces and intelligences clothe them-
selves to manifest for a short cycle here
on Earth. Therefore nothing that we see
in the outer world around us is the thing
itself. It is only a shell or instrument
through which the mystic Life of Causa-
tion finds expression.
A mystic not a dreamer.
A mystic is one who is not satis-
fied with the study of the mere outer
forms of manifestation, the mere physi-
cal vehicles and the various phenomena
connected with their manifestation. A
mystic is one who wants to get behind
the seen into the unseen. He wants to
go back of the outer phenomena of life
and study their causes; for only so can
he really understand their manifestation.
A true mystic, therefore, is not a mere
dreamer. He is not one who spends his
time in idle speculation. Still less is he
one who thinks so vaguely that his mind
is in a mental mist, a fog of impractical
intellectual or metaphysical speculations.
A true mystic is one who seeks the Real
Mysticism Solves World Problems 3
back of the seeming; the Reality back of
all outer manifestations. He is one who
seeks to penetrate the mists of radiant
glory that forever surround the throne of
the Creator, the true cause and source of
all manifestation. And he tries to apply
the realization of these basic truths to his
daily life. For the mystic, therefore, the
highest ideal of each phase of life is the
only goal worthy of striving for.
Our many lives.
The mystic sees that we live many as-
pects of life within our one life. We
have our outer life that we live before
the world and whose achievements may
be worthy for history to record as con-
stituting our life. That is our outer, pub.
lie or physical life. Then we have a life
that is known only to our family and close
friends. That is our personal life. Then
we have our mental life which is shared
only by those of like mind and ideas.
We also have our psychic life in
which we commune with our loved ones
who have finished their work here on
4 The Mystic Life
Earth and have withdrawn from the
outer physical body to continue their life
manifestation in a finer body, "One flight
up with their overcoats off" as we express
it.2 We also have our own life in those
higher realms when we withdraw from
the physical during sleep and mingle with
our loved ones up there in that higher
school of life. For, remember, there is
no death. Only a withdrawal from a
temporary and lower manifestation of
life to function in a higher.
The Real Life.
But hack of all, we have that Inner
Life of the Soul, that Real Self which is
the Real Life and which animates all the
forms in which we may manifest on all
planes in all the worlds of manifestation.
That is the mysterious Inner Self whose
inner urge keeps us ever seeking, ever
striving. Striving for what? For satis-
faction. And why? That we may attain
2 Por details see Realms of the Lijvsg Dead,
Curtiss.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 5
that happiness whose ultimate is heavenly
bliss; that "peace which passeth under-
standing"; the realization of the con-
sciousness of the Divine within us.
The source of happiness.
Unfortunately the unfoldment. of the
vast majority of mankind enables them
to live for the most part only in the con-
sciousness of the outer world and to re-
spond as a rule only to the vibrations
which reach their consciousness through
the five physical senses. Therefore they
naturally seek satisfaction and happiness
through these senses. They naturally
seek it in things, in possessions, in outer
attainments, in the gratification of the
animal desires, appetites, and passions.
But no true satisfaction can be attained
when the inner is made to vibrate only to
the outer. There may be a certain degree
of pleasurable sensations from without,
but they culminate only in satiety, not
true satisfaction or happiness. True
satisfaction and happiness are attained
only from within outward; only when the
6 The Mystic Life
outer is made to vibrate to the inner;
when manifestation responds to causation,
the personality to the Inner Self or Soul.
Therefore the mystic solves the great
basic problem of human happiness by
seeking it within instead of without; by
seeking .that inner guidance from within
which shall so order and direct the
thoughts, the words and the deeds of the
outer life that it shall give ever greater
expression to that Divine Self within
which is striving for expression, and thus
attain that happiness which comes only
when the Divine within has found at least
some degree of manifestation in the
world without.
Expren love now.
Happiness is, therefore, not merely a
transient and ephemeral vibration of the
outer senses. It is a manifestation of an
essential Soul quality. Hence, when we
say or do something that makes others
happy, we are awakening and bringing
into expression a Soul vibration in them.
And this vibration is expansive, creative,
Mysticism Solves World Problems 7
and constructive. For no vibration of in-
harmony, antagonism, evil, or sin can find
expression when the whole being is ex-
pressing happiness.
And it takes so little to snake people
happy! Akindwordoract;anodanda
pleasant smile; an unselfish deed. A flower
or a postcard or other remembrance. A
word of sympathy or of appreciation may
brighten and snake happy a whole day of
depression or discouragement or of other-
wise routine work. And the happiness
returns every time one thinks of it. So
do not wait to "say it with flowers" after
a loved one is gone. Express your love,
your appreciation or your approval here
and now. Do not do it in such a way as
to flatter or make them vain, but to ex-
press your appreciation of the good, the
beautiful, and the true in others and en-
courage them in its expression.
The mystic lives life.
The true mystic is, therefore, the hap-
piest person in the world, and he naturally
radiates that vibration of peace, harmony,
8 The Mystic Life
and the joy of living to all he contacts.
For he has realized within himself the
joy of living in harmony with the Divine
within. And having found the source of
true happiness within he naturally wants
everyone else to be happy likewise.
Since he finds his happiness here and
now, he does not have to wait until he
goes to heaven to experience it. He is,
therefore, not one who seeks to get away
from life, but one who seeks to live life
to its fullest and highest; to let the high-
est spiritual vibrations dominate and thrill
the human personality and thus give it its
greatest satisfaction and happiness. He
seeks to perfect the animal body and de-
velop the mind, not for their own sake,
but only that they may become more
perfect instruments for the expression of
the indwelling Soul.
The Law of Manifestation.
But since the mystic has studied the
Laws of Causation he has learned that
the Law of Sacrifice underlies the Law
of Manifestation. Therefore, he under-
stands that to bring happiness to others
Mysti&m Solves World Problems 9
he must give something of himself and
thus become an integral part of an open
channel for the fulfillment of at least a
tiny expression of that great Cosmic Law
of Sacrifice.
The Law of Sacrifice.
Through an understanding of this Law
he realizes that on the downward arc of
manifesting the Unmanifestedcalled the
Cycle of Necessitythe Greater must
sacrifice Itself that the lesser may inani-
fest and have an individualized expres-
sion of the One Divine Life which ani-
mates all forms of life. For just as the
physical Sun sacrifices its light, life,
warmth, and radiant energy that all the
seeds and germs and countless forms of
life may sprout and grow and have their
tiny individual expressions of life, so does
Godthe Creator and Manifestor of all
sacrifice His oneness that the multi-
tudes may manifest.
The Seven Archangels.
Through this Law He sacrifices His
Unity that Duality may spring forth.
10 The My.dic Life
And Duality sacrifices itself that the
Trinity may find expression. And from
the Trinity there is generated that seven-
fold expression of the God-head which
underlies the structure of all manifested
life.3 First we have "The seven Spirits
which are before His throne. . . the
seven angels which stood before God...
the seven Spirits of God sent forth into
all the earth," as the book of Revelation
tells us. These are the seven mighty
Archangels who are the Planetary
Deities who rule the seven sacred planets
of our solar system. From these great
Angels there radiate the seven great
Hierarchies of lesser Celestial Beings
which bring into expression every ideal in
the mind of God that is to make up the
manifested universe.
Evolution begins.
And when the cycle of outgoing has
been completed and the higher forms of
S The seven Creative Spirit!, the Dhian
Chohans. who correspond to the Hebrew Elo.
him. For details see the chapters on number
7 in The Key oj the Uasverse. Curtiu.
Mysticism Solves World Problç,ns 11
manifestation have each sacrificed some.
thing of themselves that lesser forms
may manifest, and so on down until the
mineral kingdom is reached, then the re-
verse process begins and the upward arc
or the cycle of evolution starts.
The Cycle of Necessity.
The mineral sacrifices its form of life,
or, we may say, is killed and eaten, that
a higher form of the One Life, the vege-
table, may find expression. The
vegetable, in turn, sacrifices its form of
life, is killed and eaten, that a higher
form, the animal, may manifest. The
animal, in turn, sacrifices its form of life
that a still higher form of life, man, may
live. And man, the animal self and the
human personality, must sacrifice its life;
that is, give up its selfishness, its self-
will, its vanities, ambitions, and desires,
in such a complete surrender that it cor-
responds to being killed and eaten or
swallowed up, and all its powers absorbed
and utilized that the highest form of life,
the Real or Spiritual Self, may find ex-
12 The Mystic Life
pression through it and thus complete the
Cycle of Necessity by the union of the
Individualized Spirit with its Source.
In this way the sacrifice of each form
to a higher form receives its compensa-
tion by being built into that form and
experiencing and being uplifted by the
_vibrations of a higher form of life which
is expressing vibrations of life which are
many octaves above those of the lower
form. It therefore follows that no form
of life has a right to take the life of
another form unless it can furnish it
some corresponding compensation.
How God expreue. in humanity.
Thus we see that just as God submitted
Himself to this cosmic and universal
Law of Sacrifice that we might have in-
dividualized expression, so must we sub-
mit to this same Law of Sacrifice by
giving up our wills, our hearts, our lives
that we may be swallowed up and ab-
sorbed in Him that He may find expres-
sion through us. For, remember, that we
Mystithm Solves World Problems 13
mortals are the only avenues or means
through which God con find expression
in humanity! We all know how neces-
sary God is to us. But did you ever stop
to think how necessary we arc So God?
It is a tremendous concept to realize that
without our making ourselves holy chan-
nels for the expression of His Life, His
love, His compassion, His blissful hap-
piness, we are hampering His manifesta-
tion. Once we have realized this great
concept, how glad and willing and how
joyous should be our complete surrender
to Him!
We must voluntarily choose.
This may seem very mystkal and im-
practical at first sight, but it has a very
practical application. For just as the
light and life of the Sun is poured out
to be embodied in the plants and all grow-
ing things, so is the Light and Life of
the Spiritual Sun poured out to be em-
bodied in us as spiritual enlightenment.
which we call the Christ-consciousness or
14 The Mystic Life
our spiritual guidance in all our affairs.
But just as the sunlight does the plant
no good unless the plant absorbs it, so the
light, life and love of God does us no
good unless we correlate with and absorb
it. The Sun cannot compel the plant to
absorb its rays, neither can God compel
us to absorb the down-pouring of His
forces that we may grow spiritually. And
still less can He make us sacrifice our-
selves to and become absorbed in Him.
Those are things that we must voluntarily
choose to do because we desire to. This
we do through meditation on Him,
through prayer, aspiration, and constant
devotion to Him.
This is not a matter of the brain, but
of the heart. Therefore great education,
great learning and a highly developed in-
tellect are not necessary. Only a tender,
loving heart; only a steadfast desire to
know and be one with Him; only an open,
receptive, child-like mind that is willing
to be taught of God and is willing to
obey Him. That is all that is necessary.
Mysticism Solve: World Problems 15
The one Source.
This law is of universal application.
For since it requires no creed, no dogma,
no ritual, it is applicable to all mankind,
no matter what their stage of intellectual
unfoldment, their religion, their creed,
their color, or their race may be. For all
mankind are emanations from one of the
seven great Archangels, and it makes no
difference what the color of the Ray of
which they are a part. The Source of all
the Rays is the same, the One Eternal
Being who is above and beyond all hu-
man, finite conception, call Him by what
name or term you wilL
The Sun is the one central orb of light
and life to our solar system, no matter by
what name it is called in various lan-
guages. So the Spiritual Sun, the Sun of
Righteousness, is the one central source
of spiritual light, life, and love in the
universe, no matter what name He is
called or how He is worshipped in the
various religions. The only thing that
counts is, is He recognized in some way,
16 The Mystic Life
sought for and correlated with through
some form of worship, and embodied and
expressed in our lives?
It therefore matters little what the
form of the worship or ritual may be.
All who worship God are necessarily
worshipping the same God; for He is one
God, not many, although He manifests
under and through all the Divine Beings
who compose His Hierarchies of Mani-
festation, just as the Sun manifests
through the seven color rays of the rain-
bow.
Each religion a Path to God.
Once one's mind is trained from child-
hood to seek for and correlate with Him
through one religion or one Path of
Light, one should be devoted to that re-
ligion and walk up that Path to Him.
One should follow the race-thought in
which he was brought up. He should,
therefore, not change his religion except
under unusual circumstances, and then
only as a result of his own Divine Guid-
ance from within and not from argument
Mysticism Solves World Problems 17
or the emotional storm of a revival serv-
ice. For each religion is a Path of Light
leading to God if its highest ideals are
grasped and followed and embodied in the
life.
It is only the childish conceit of a
very limited outlook on life that makes
the followers of any one religion claim
that it is the best and only true religion.
All religions and forms of worship which
lead their devotees to a personal realica-
tion and ultimate union with their ideal of
God are true religions. On a moonlit
lake the silver path to the Moon is seen
a little differently from every boat on
the lake. And it is only by following the
path that shines down to our boat that
we can row toward the Moon. And it is
exceedingly dangerous to change boats
after we have left the shore.
The one goal of realization.
Rama Krishna, the great Hindu God-
realized Saint of the nineteenth century,
said that he had followed and mastered
all the different forms of yoga and that
18 The Mystic Life
they had all brought him to the one goal
of realization (Sadhana), although along
different paths. He also said that he had
studied all the great religions, including
two whole years spent in concentration
on Jesus' teachings and in meditation on
the Christos, living all alone like a
Christian anchorite in the famous woods
of Panchabati,"4 and he found that they
all led him to the same goal of Advaita
or identity with God. And the testimony
of that great Saint who had experimen-
tally followed each religion to its goal of
realization should be conclusive.
The only heathen.
The practical application of this is that
we need no missionaries to convert the
"heathen." For certainly those who are
following the Path of Realization and are
worshipping the one God are not
"heathen." The only heathen there are
are those who refuse or neglect to walk
their path and worship their highest con-
4 See The Face of the Silence, Mulcerji,
Chapter V.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 19
cept of God. And we do not have to go
outside of Chicago or any other city to
find them. But we do need ,nissionaries
to teach mankind the beauties of their
own religion, and above all, to recognize
the One in the many, Unity in diversity,
the Eternal in the ephemeral.
Creeds and dogmas.
Jesus did indeed say that His gospel
should be preached unto all nations and
peoples. But He also said: "Other sheep
have I, which are not of this fold; them
also I must bring, and they shall hear my
voice (through their own religion); and
there shall be one fold, and one shep-
herd."
But did He enunciate a creed or
formulate a dogma or establish a church?
Certainly not. Those are all the off-
spring of man's speculations, often hun-
dreds of years after the Master taught.
His gospel was a realization of the Cos-
mic Christ-consciousness; the identity of
5SS. Johi, x, 16.
20 The Mystic Life
all men in the Father, hence the universal
Brotherhood of Man. That Christ-con-
sciousness within was what St. Paul re
ferred to when he said: "Until Christ be
born in you." Jesus' only doctrine was
Divine Love.
Love a cosmic power.
Now love is centripetal not centrifugal;
is cohesive and constructive, not disrup-
tive and destructive; is unifying, not sep-
arative. In fact love is the cohesive
power of the universe. In the solar sys-
tem it is that cohesive power, known as
gravitation, which holds the planets in
their orbits around the Sun. In the world
of matter it is the cohesive powercalled
chemical affinitythat holds the mole-
cules together to form objective material
things. In the atom it is the cohesive
power that holds the electrons and neu-
trons around the central proton.
In the family it is the affection that
binds the children to the parents and to
each other to form the family. If it is
Myssicism Solvcs World Problems 21
absent, the family naturally disintegrates
because there is no cohesive force of love
to hold it together. And if there is not,
then it is the fault of the parents for not
invoking it through prayer and meditation
and allowing it to manifest in the family.
Like the electricity, love is always
available, but we must take the time,
thought and attention to turn it on, just as
we must push the electric light button, if
we would have spiritual light and love il-
lumine our homes and our hearts. So do
not blame the so-called "modern" children.
It is the "modern" and God-less parents
who are to blame. In the community love
manifests as the civic spirit that binds
the community or city together as an en-
tity. Among nations it is patriotism and
nationalism that makes the country one
people. In races it is the blood tie that
welds the various nations into a race. In
humanity as a whole it is that spiritual
quality of the species; that incarnated
Ray of Divinity which distinguishes man
from all other animals.
22 The Mystic Life
Mysticism solves the world's problems.
To be practical mystics and see how
mysticism solves the world's problems,
we must apply these few basic principles
to our daily lives and contacts. From the
one divine origin of mankind we deduce
the basic Law of Brotherhood: that all
men are brothers, no matter what their
race, their color, or their creed. Indeed,
as we identify ourselves with the One
Cause we see our brothers as ourselves.
With this first basic law understood and
realized and applied, there could be no
more war among nations, any more than
there could be among members of a
family who were manifesting that second
great Law of Divine Love and living in
and being ruled by love and affection.
There would naturally be differences of
opinion, but they are adjusted without
lighting.
So should it be among nations. Each
nation, like each organ of the body,
has its own boundaries, its own life to
live, and its own functions to perform.
But none can live to themselves alone.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 23
AU arc needed for the good of She whole.
If one organ functions excessively or is
feverish or ill, through the constructive
application of the Law of Harmony, its
activities are curbed and harmonized by
constructive methods until it is brought
into harmonious relationship with its fel-
lows, and without injuring it or the
others or destroying it or them. There-
fore, if the principles of Christian Mysti-
cism were applied there could be no war
among the nations of mankind.
All classes necessary.
Just as each nation and race is
necessary for the expression of humanity
as a whole, so is each class within the na-
tion necessary for the good of the whole.
Just as the head or the heart or the lungs
or the hands and feet cannot be consid-
ered superior the one to the other, except
relatively, for all are necessary for the
manifestation of the complete man, so
are all classes necessary for the complete
manifestation of God in humanity. And
since the health of the body is an iznpor-
24 The Mystic Life
tant factor in the manifestation of the
Soul through it, even the man who digs
a ditch for a sewer to contribute to the
health of a city is a factor which assists
the manifestation of God on Earth.
Hence his seemingly lowly labor is vitally
important to the whole community and
may even be regarded as service to God.6
Service and co-operation the Law of Life.
Therefore if the principles of Christian
Mysticism are understood and practised
there can be no class antagonism; for
each class will recognize the necessity of
performing its own tasks in the best pos-
sible manner and co-operating with all
other classes in the most harmonious and
constructive way. For we have seen that
according to the cosmic laws of Sacrifice
and of Love, unselfish service and liar-
inonious co-operation, instead of selfish
and antagonistic competition is the true
Law of Life and happiness.
6 See lesson Work as WorsMp, Curtiss.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 25
If this involves planned and controlled
production, distribution, and labor, then
these things must come before our civili-
zation is organized upon the lines of con-
structive cosmic forces which alone can
make it endure. Tue National Recovery
Act is now striving and working toward
this goal of universal planned co-opera-
tion for the best good of all. And nearly
every point in this plan which we broad-
cast before the Chamber of Commerce
of Orlando, Florida, on March 29th,
l932, has already been enacted into law
or been proposed, and the other points
must ultimately be added to complete the
plan.
Simplified civilization.
In the light of this law of unselfish co-
operation our whole system of living
must be reorganized so as to make the
demands of the outer life subservient to
the manifestation of the inner life. For
7 See lessons Coiwsc Causes of World Con.
dstions and the Remedy, Curtiss.
26 The Mystic Life
the material mechanics of living have be-
come so complicated that we have become
enslaved to our instruments of living.
Our time and attention is so taken up
with manipulating the so-called instru-
ments of civilization that we have little
time to live life itself. We are so di-
verted by the trivial details of the outer
personality that we have no time nor
attention left for communion with God,
our Source of Life, or for the recogni-
tion and cultivation and expression of our
Real Self or Soul.
From this standpoint "mass production"
has proved a curse, in that it has de-
veloped new so-called needs which are
really aids to self-indulgence, and have
added to our enslavement to the com-
plexities of living, instead of freeing us
to enjoy the simplicities of life. We
boast of labor-saving devices. But why
save labor? Labor should be an avenue
of creative self-expression and not blind
toil And we have "saved" so much of it
that we do not know what to do with it,
hence millions are unemployed.
Mystithm Solves World Problems 27
Enlightenment, realization, aervice.
The solution which Christian Mysti-
cism presents for the ills of our present
civilization is enlightenment, reolkotion
and manifestation or service. For before
we can properly organize our lives along
cosmically constructive lines, we must be
enlightened as to those lines or forces of
causation. Then we must realize what
life is all about, namely, where we came
from, why we are here, and whither we
are bound. We must realize that we in-
carnate here on Earth not to make money
or to be hampered in the expression of
our Divine Self by many complicated
outer details and things to do. We come
here to manifest as much of the inner
Divine Self as our degree of unfoldment
permits, and to learn to take the next
step in that spiritual unfoldment. And
we should make all our outer activities
contribute to and yet be subordinate to
that main object of life. If this be called
putting our religion first, then so be it.
For that is the most practical thing we
28 The Mystic Life
can do; that is, put th accomplishment
of our mission on Earth first in our lives.
In touch with Nature.
Simplifying life naturally calls for the
gradual abandonment of city life, and the
organizing of our lives in relatively small
detached communities or villages of
kindred Souls. And we should be in such
close touch with the soil and with the
creative forces of Nature that each
family can expend at least a part of its
creative energies in raising the majority
of its food supply and in fashioning its
fundamental instruments of living. In
other words, we should so simplify our
lives that each family would be relatively
self-sustaining. Yet we need not scrap
all modern conveniences of living, but
make them subservient to our real needs
and not merely generate new needs.
The plan of the hive.
Then our lives would be as normal and
as well organized, yet as simple and self-
Mysticism Solves World Problems 29
sustaining, as that of the bee. If you
will study the glass hives at the Century
of Progress Exposition you will see that
while from the outside the bees seem to
be rushing to the hive in great haste and
confusion, yet inside all is calm and
peaceful and without haste or confusion.
Each detail is carried out quietly and or-
derly by its own trained corps of workers
until it is done thoroughly and efficiently
according to the plan of the hk'e which is
impressed upon the bees through the in-
stinct of the group-soul of the species.
Follow our guidance.
Like the bee, we also have a plan for
our lives to manifest and toward which
we should direct all our activities, that
our lives may become perfect cells in the
honeycomb of life in which the nectar of
God's light, life, and love may be stored
up for our spiritual nourishment. That
plan is impressed upon the Soul-con-
sciousness and will be revealed step by
step by God Himself through intuition to
30 The Mystic Life
all who will listen and obey. We should
therefore cultivate and follow the guid-
ance of our intuition until our response to
that guidance becomes just as habitual
and instinctive as does the response of
the bee to its guiding instinct.
Higher help needed.
But the Christian Mystic is one who
also realizes that we do not have to work
out our plan of life alone and unaided.
In fact, we cannot fully accomplish our
life's mission, learn its lessons, and re-
deem its mistakes in our own human
strength; for that requires higher octaves
of force than the mortal and human.
And we know that if we will only seek
for it we can have the help of higher be-
ings than the human, just as the seeds
can have the higher help of man to cul-
tivate them. We can have the help, not
only of our own Soul, our Spiritual Self,
but also many classes of Invisible
Helpers. But this help is not imposed
upon us. We must voluntarily seek for
and invoke and then correlate with it.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 31
Heavenly Hierarchiei.
Not only do our loved ones who have
gone on ahead of us into the higher
realms of life bring to us all the help,
comfort, and guidance that their ex-
panded consciousness and power and our
receptivity permits, but both we and they
also have still higher and greater helpers.
For we have all the heavenly Hierarchies
of Angelic Beings to aid and inspire,
comfort and protect and sustain us to the
extent that we call upon and tune in to
their plane of consciousness and power.
And above and beyond all others we
have the embodied aspect of God in the
person of His Sonwhether He be called
the Christ, the Buddha, Krishna, or
Horus in various religions. And He is so
omnipresent and His consciousness is so
omniscient and His love so all-inclusive
and all-pervading that He is ever ready
to respond to the call of every heart
which sends up the wireless call of its
aspiration, devotion, or need.
32 The Mystic Life
Contacting the Angels.
The reality of these angelic helpers and
the mystery of our being able to contact
them and receive their aid is testified to
in all great religions in all ages.8 In fact
this mystic source of all life is the basis
which underlies all religions and all wor-
ship. And the method of contacting
these Angelic Beings we repeat is prayer,
aspiration, and devotion. We do not need
elaborate places of worship or other outer
conditions, helpful as many such are, for
as we said before, such contact is not a
matter of outer things or even of mind,
but of heart; not a matter of intellect
but of worship.
In summarizing this address as we close
we cannot do better than recall to your
minds two stanzas of that well known
hymn:
"Down from their home on high
Down through the starry sky.
Angels, descending fly,
While the Earth shaketh.
8 detaili see Rcahn of the Livi.g
Dead. Curtiss.
Mysticism Solves World Problems 33
Roll they the stone away
From where the Savior lay.
Out into glorious day
His way He taketh."
Our true Resurrection.
And so may the angels of inspiration
and Divine Guidance, spiritual under-
standing and illumination descend upon us
here and now and roll away the stone of
ignorance, of misunderstanding, and mis-
conception, the stone of materialism, from
our hearts and minds wherein we have
kept the divine Christ-consciousness en-
tombed these many years, that He may
come forth and take His way with us in
our lives. Thus shall we be resurrected
from the old life of entombing person-
ality and ascend into the consciousness of
that larger life of the Spirit which is our
heritage and our real home.
Thus does Christian Mysticism solve
the world's problems through enlighten-
inent, realization, and manifestation or
service to Him and to our fellow men as
to ourselves.
CHAPTER II
THE PATH or DISCIPLESHIP
"The Path is the Path of Renunciation.
The renunciation must be the renunciation of
the domination of he lower self and the dis.
ciplinin and training of its desires and ap-
petites. The Voice of 1w,, Curtiss, 296.
"There is a Path which leads into the deep
mysteries of God. There is a Path which
leads into the world of Life Eternal. And its
door is not of necessity the one called the death
of the physical body. Yet it is in one sense
death, but a death only of those things which
we no longer need. It is on this Path that
our life attains its ultimate end. It is here
that we see the doors of the mighty Temple
of Divine Life Swing open. It is here that
we bear the Voice of the Silence say to us:
'Put off thy shoes (the outer material cover-
ings or material conceptions) from off thy
feet (our understanding), for the ground on
which thou standest is holy ground.'"
Hametle 4ugu.rta Curths.
£piritual advance In former timei.
Av yntsr thought the term Path of
Discipleship, the Path which leads to a
realization of the mystery of the relation
between God and man, suggests a course
of severe discipline and asceticism. For
34
The Path of Discipleship 35
that was the idea commonly connected
with the thought of spiritual advance
which has been handed down from the
Dark Ages.
The Path of Discipleship is, indeed, a
difficult and strenuous one, firstly, be-
cause a disciple must be one who is not
merely a vague follower of his Master
or his chosen ideal, but is one who en-
deavors to embody that ideal in all the
affairs of his daily life. Secondly, the
Path is difficult because the disciple is
definitely seeking to advance more rapidly
than the rate afforded by the slow and
sluggish evolutionary path of racial evo-
lution which gradually sweeps the great
mass of humanity along through the ages,
ultimately sweeping them to the foot of
the Mount of Attainment1 where they
must then consciously begin to climb its
heights. This Path is difficult because
the disciple must accomplish, in the few
years of this incarnation, the advance for
which the race requires ages.
I See lesson The Moist of 4Ume,it,
Curtiss.
36 The Mystic Life
Discipleship is a steep ascent.
The Path is also difficult because the
disciple must rise above the crowd and
enter into, and be affected by, and re-
spond to, new and higher octaves of
vibration. For he is starting out on a
higher round on the Spiral of Life2
where he must again meet the same prob-
lems and face the same tests that he has
met and passed on the lower rounds years
ago. Here he must prove that those
former lessons were really learned and
that their powers were really built into
his character. But he now faces these
tests with a more sensitive organism
which reacts more strongly to them. Yet
he also has the greater strength gained
by passing those tests at the lower stages
of his unfoldment.
The preparation for meeting these
tests of life and the temptations of the
flesh with a more sensitive and more
easily responsive organism was formerly
made by seeking to avoid them through
2 See The Message of Aquaria. Curtiu,
Chapter xvi.
The Path of Discipleship 37
retiring from the world in monastery or
convent, in the forest or the jungle, and
leading an ascetic life. And this same
idea is still held in the Orient and in
many churches today in connection with
advanced spiritual teachings and attain-
ments. But we hold that such concep-
tions arise from a misunderstanding of
the nature and purpose of man and his
bodies.
Starting out from the Father'a home.
Those who have read the books or fol-
lowed the Teachings of this Order know
that our bodies are not ourselves: that
we are not mere mortals, but that the
Real Self of us is a divine and glorious
Spiritual Being whose home is in the
spiritual world. But since it is the will
of the Father that His life, His con-
sciousness, and His love shall be mani-
fested consciously in all the worlds of
manifestation, from the heavenly home-
world down through all the intervening
states and stages of manifestation until
this dense world of matter is reached, to
38 The Mystic Life
us, His enlightened children, is given the
great task of demonstrating our Divinity
by descending into this material world to
manifest here on Earth the divine and
godlike qualities and powers which we
inherit from Him.
The personality necessary.
But to accomplish this mission we must
don garments that are suitable to this
dense material world in which we are to
work. We are like a diver who has to
put on a heavy, cumbersome diving suit
(our animal body) and have his feet (our
understanding) heavily weighted with
lead (our materialistic conceptions).
Such a suit is so terribly hampering to
the diver that he can accomplish only a
small fraction of the work he could do
out of water without it. Yet it is the
only means by which he can accomplish
anything at all down in the mud of the
sea bottom. And as the diver receives
his supply of life-giving air from above,
so must we rely upon and correlate with
the Breath of the Spirit to sustain our
The Path of Discipleship 39
-spiritual life while we are manifesting
here in the depths of the sea. of ma-
teriality. And just as the diver must re-
spond to, and be guided by, the signals
and directions given him from his at-
tendants above for his safety and accom-
plishment, so must we respond to and
obey our guidance from above.
Natural desires.
But, unlike the diving suit, the garment
we have to don to manifest on Earth
is not a mere inert material covering, not
a mere mechanical instrument which
automatically conforms itself to our
every movement, wish, and desire. It is a
living organism, the most highly evolved
organism of the animal kingdom, the hu-
man body. Consequently this animal
body has all the functions, appetites, pas-
sions, and desires that any animal has.
And it is just here that misunderstanding
of the whole plan of manifestation has
led to the practice of asceticism.
Because this animal body of ours re-
quires training and control, the erroneous
40 The Mystic Life
conclusion has been reached that the sur-
est way to control its troublesome activi-
ties is to fast and starve them into sub-
mission and ultimately kill them out. But
such a process is not control. It is only
devitalization. It is not mastery. It is
only emasculation.
Eastern vs. Western methods.
How, then, are we to accomplish the
real training, the real disciplining, the real
mastery of this our animal instrument of
manifestation? It is the methods used to
accomplish this end that constitute the
training and discipline of the Path of
Discipleship, whether they be the medi-
eval and Oriental path of asceticism or
the Christian Mystic path of perfection,
mastery, and joyous use of all man's God-
given powers as avenues of expression
for, and under the guidance of, the Real
Self.
Therein lies the fundamental dif-
ference between the Eastern and the
Western, the Oriental and the Occidental,
conceptions of the Path. The Eastern
The Path of Discipleship 41
or ascetic ideal holds that not only are
the natural functions of the animal body
and the desires of the human personality
a handicap to the manifestation of the
Real Self, but are almost a curse; that
God made a great mistake when He
clothed His children with such a hamper-
ing instrument of manifestation, and
hence the best thing to do is to have as
little to do with it as possible. On the
other hand, the Christian Mystic ideal is
that God knew exactly what He was
about when He evolved3 this animal body
and gave it to our incarnating Souls to
use as His advanced representatives here
on Earth.
Guidance from within.
Our main idea in the training of the
personality and its animal body therefore
is to teach it to respond to and be guided
by the Real Self within as readily and as
instinctively as it responds to the vibra-
tions from without and the sensations
3 See The Truth About Evolution ünd the
flible. Curtlu.
42 The Mystic Life
from below. We must teach our human
personality that if it will obey our ideals
and follow our directions it will not only
be far healthier, but also far happier,
and will have greater satisfaction in liv-
ing its life than if it merely seeks un-
limited gratification of its animal in-
stincts. It will be healthier because the
normal condition of the incarnating Soul
is one of peace and harmony. Hence the
more we strive to express the ideals and
principles of the Soul life, the more
peaceful, harmonious, and happy, and
hence the more healthful, will our lives
become. And we will be more satisfied
because we will govern our reactions to
the outer world by the vibrations of the
Divine Self within. For we must re-
member that it is not outer persons,
things, and conditions that upset us and
make our lives inharmonious, but our re-
action to them. We should also remein-
ber that true satisfaction cannot be found
in outer conditions, possessions, or things.
We experience true soul-satisfying satis-
The Path of Discipleship 43
faction only as we respond to and mani-
fest the Real Self within.
Control our reactions.
What is it that most disturbs the peace
and harmony of our lives? It is our re-
action to, and expression of, our inhar-
monious and destructive emotions, such
as irritability, impatience, anger, hatred,
lust, fear, envy, jealousy, selfishness, etc.
All such emotions have been scientifically
proven to produce chemical changes or
toxins in the blood which poison the
whole body. In view of this, what can
we do to prevent the generation and ex-
pression of these destructive emotions?
Firstly, we must firmly fix in our minds
that we are not mortals, but are spiritual
beings who, in our Real Selves, have no
annoyance, resentment, or anger. Neither
are we envious of the possessions of
others nor jealous of their attainments.
For we came down to Earth to express
our own attainments, and we really need
only such possessions as will best enable
44 The Mystic Life
us to manifest those attainments. All
else would be an added responsibility and
a burden which would occupy much of
our time, attention, and creative forces
and hence would hamper our highest ex-
pression.
Secondly, we must realize that to give
way to impatience, resentment, anger,
etc., opens our minds to the thought
currents of such things which have been
generated by the whole community
in which we livc. By giving them
expression we open the door of our minds
and allow the accumulated community
currents to flow in and find expression
through us. Thus they sweep us off our
feet into disruptive outbursts which far
exceed the trivial causes which started
them and which are greatly in excess of
anything we intended or thought of ex-
pressing.
The remedy.
Therefore the remedy is to grasp the
basic idea that all such inharmonious
manifestations belong merely to the hu-
The Path of Discipleship 45
man personality and not to our Real
Self; that they express selfishness, per-
sonal vanity, or the passions and desires
of the animal self, and are not worthy
of being allowed to find expression
through us. Such expression can be pre-
vented by checking them as soon as their
vibration starts to manifest by immedi-
ately turning our attention to the opposite
emotion to which we do wish to give
expression, and feed that constructive
emotion by concentrating upon it and giv-
ing it expression.
This complies with the command of
Jesus to, "Resist not evil, but overcome
evil with good." For to resist evil we
must recognize it and give it our atten-
tion. And anything we focus our atten-
tion upon we feed and give power over
us. Therefore, if we focus our attention
upon giving expression to the construc-
tive emotion we feed it and give it power
over us, and thus overcome the evil, first
by weakening it by the withdrawal of
our attention and thought currents which
feed it, and then overwhelming it by the
46 The Mystic Life
power of the good that we have created.
One of our basic principles of life must
therefore be never to allow anything to
upset or interfere with the happy and
harmonious manifestation of the inner
peace, poise, love, and rhythm of our Real
or Divine Self. Nothing in the outer
life is of sufficient importance to be al.
lowed to upset the calm poise of our inner
harmony.
Positive radiating centers.
Nothing can do so if every morning on
awakening we fervently repeat our
Prayer to the Divine Indweller. "Wel-
come, 0 Lord of Life and Love and
Beauty I Thou who art myself and yet
art God I And dwell in this body of flesh,
radiating all the beauty of holiness and
perfection, that the flesh may outpicture
all that Thou art within." Thus we will
charge our minds with the realization that
we are to manifest, just for that one day
at a time, the inner peace, joy, and happi-
ness of our Divine Indweller. As we thus
realize the Divine within that is strug-
The Path of Disdplesh4 47
gling for expression through ourselves
and through others, we will be tolerant
of the mistakes and annoying actions of
others who are less evolved than our-
selves, and hence are less under the
guidance and control of the Real Self,
and will not allow them to upset us.
If we are also kind and unselfish in
little things and try to divert the inhar-
monious manifestations of others by re-
fusing to react to them and by turning
them aside with a smile or by changing
the subject and diverting their attention
from them, then the big things, the big
tests and temptations and trials, wili
readily be recognized for what they are
and be conquered. In other words, we
will accomplish far more good in the
world, both for ourselves and others,
when we make ourselves positive centers
for the radiation of cheer, joy, happiness,
and peace which elicit similar responses
from others, than when we strive to be
austere saints or to appear learned,
superior, or pious.
48 The Mystic Life
Realization of the Presence.
But even though we earnestly strive to
be such radiant centers of constructive
and inspiring forces, while we are train-
ing ourselves to react only constructively
to outer conditions, persons, and forces,
there are times when we need outside
help or rather inside help: a power
greater than that of our human person-
ality, namely, the help of the Christ
within. For to this ever-present Power
we can always turn for help the instant
we find ourselves likely to give way to
vibrations and emotions and thoughts
which we do not wish to express. And
one instant's response to His indwelling
peace, poise, power, and love, an instant's
response to His command, "Peace. Be
still," is sufficient to calm the turbulent
sea of our emotions and our reactions to
the outer conditions. For there are no
storms which His power cannot quell and
no conditions which He cannot dominate
and conquer if we will but remember to
ask His aid and permit Him to manifest
through us.
The Path of DsciplesMp 49
The more often we realize that He
is ever present with and within us con-
tinually, in all our work, in all our play,
in all our trials and temptations; and the
more often we consciously turn to Him
for help and guidance, the more do His
vibrations find expression through us and
help us to conquer, perfect, and master
this human personality of ours and all its
reactions. Thus do we not kill out or
emasculate it, but continually improve it
as an instrument for the ever greater
manifestation of our Real Self within.
There must be rigid discipline of the
personality and its body, yes. But it
must be the discipline and control due not
to fear of penalty nor to ambition for per-
sonal attainment, but to a glad and joyous
response to the guidance of the Christ
within.
The Path of expression.
The Path of Discipleship, as we con-
ceive it, is, therefore, one of consciously
striving to follow the guidance of the
Divine within in all the affairs of life.
50 The Mystic Life
It is the Path, not of suppression and
killing out, but of recognition and
mastery of all our forces and faculties in
their proper place and for their highest
purposes. For they are built into our
various bodies by the Father to enable us
to express our Divine Selfhood and do
His will the more perfectly here on
Earth, even as it is done in heaven. It is
the Path of constructive and harmonious
expression; of happiness and joyous radi-
ation of our highest conception of the
Divine Self within.
And since happiness is what all man-
kind is consciously or unconsciously seek-
lug, this Path of the practice of the posi-
tive radiation of our highest and best is
the surest way to its attainment. And
since a disciple is a devoted exemplar of
his Master's teachings, the proof of our
sincerity and devotion will be the degree
of our manifestation of our highest ideals
and our inner guidance. And as we mani-
fest these, the radiation of our lives will
be a source of inspiration, uplift and hap-
The Path of Disciplesh4' 51
piness to all we contact, and will stiznu-
late them also to seek out and follow this
higher, mystical, constructive, and joyous
Path of Discipleship.
CHAPTER III
ILLUMINATION1
"I am the way, the truth, and the life: no
man cometh unto the Father, but by me." St.
Matthew, xiv. 6.
"I am the Ego which is .eated in the hearts
of all beings I am the benning, the middle,
and the enJ of all existing things." The
Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter x.
Practical dlrectioni for Illumination.
Pupu.s are asking continually for some
formula, some prescribed "practical"
thing to do to advance ther spiritual
evolution, complaining that they have
read and studied all forms of philosophy
and are now ready for something "defi-
nite." Because of this widespread de-
mand there have sprung up on every hand
those who are professing to give "prac-
tical" directions that shall lead the pupil
into Illumination and give him miraculous
powers.
lYrom The Voice of 1w, Curtis., 378.
52
Illumination 53
On the other hand, an equally
large number are writing that they have
studied various systems, spent large sums
of money for "advanced teachings," re-
ceived the lessons of the inner section of
many organizations, have passed through
many mysterious degrees of various
societies with high-sounding titles, and
yet find their spiritual hunger unappeased,
the net result being a mass of so-called
formulas and a greater amount of dis-
couragement.
Others turn to the Wisdom Religion,
supposing that it has to do with the
development of psychic powers and the
performance of magical rites, but, in
truth, it has primarily to do with
the development of the Christ-force
within and the showing of it forth in the
life. So-called magic is dual. If it is
the result of the recognition and out-
ward manifestation of the Christ-within
it is 'White Magic and right; if the re-
sult of seeking for power or personal
stature it becomes Black Magic and evil.
Therefore, to all these classes of seekers,
54 The Mystic Life
as well as to many other hungry hearts,
we bring the old, old message, "I (the
Christ-within) am the way, the truth, and
the life: no man cometh unto the Father,
but by me."
Union with the Divine.
What is it that all are thus seeking?
It is so-called Illumination, yet few there
be who have any realization of what this
means. We have considered various
phases of this Illumination in previous
lessons,2 and we will try herein to show
what the real Illumination is and how it
is attained. Illumination is the perfect
blending of the self with the Divine or
the Christ-light, so that Divine Wisdom
can guide every thought and act of the
mortal man and the Light of Divinity
can shed its radiance over the entire life.
The result of spiritual force In each life.
When it is remembered that the Bible
story of the Christ is the most complete
and all-embracing narrative ever written,
2 See The Voice of hii, Curtiu.
Illumination 55
pot of the man Jesus or even of God,
but a synthetic picture of the Son of
Godthe emanation from the Father,
the Christ-force in humanity or the Word
made fleshwhich symbolizes the various
steps each Soul must pass through and
conquer, it becomes quite plain that as
this union with the Divine takes place, the
life of the disciple must manifest greater
conceptions of Truth. The whole mys-
terious transformation must be a growth
similar to the gradual assimilation of the
life-giving constituents of the Sun by the
plant, until the full fruition or indwelling
of the life-force is accomplished in the
fruit.
When we grasp this thought firmly
we will understand that we must and
shall do the works of our Father in
exact proportion to our ability to make
the correlation with Him, just as the
plant does the works of its father, the
Sunfirst as the blade, then the ear, then
the full corn in the ear. Therefore there
can be no rigid observances laid down for
the attainment of perfection any more
56 The Mystic Life
than there can be for the perfection of
every individual plant. There can, how-
ever, be practices that develop the will,
awaken the intuition, and stimulate as-
piration, and there are environments
which will foster spiritual growth, i.e.,
within the ranks of any spiritual move-
ment whose teachings satisfy your Soul-
hunger, but these have been fully cov-
ered in other lessons. To the average
twentieth century student the effort to
conquer himself is quite sufficient to de-
velop his will, and the only stimulant
necessary is a burning, ardent seeking for
a realization of the Christ-love.
Assimilation necessary.
Illumination, however, can never be at-
tained through the mere reading of les-
Sons or the observance of rules. It must
be the result of a vital force that comes
into each life. The gardener may pre-
pare the soil, tend and water a plant, but
the plant itself must assimilate the light
and force of the Sun and literally trans-
mute them into living tissue within its
Illumination 57
body, ere the blossom or the fruit can
appear. So it is with the Illumination
that each Soul is seeking. Only the
Christ-force, not only talked about and
in a sense realized, but literally absorbed
and built into living tissue in the flesh,
the mind, and the Spirit, can bring about
this mystical union. It is the Christ and
the Christ alone who is "the Way, the
Truth, and the Life."
Development of the personality.
As certain plants gather from the Sun-
force the power to produce poisons, so
can man, by using for his own personal
ends the godlike powers with which he
can identify himself, -produce evil. We
do not create power, we only identify
our consciousness with the Divine which
is the source of all power, just as we
might attach a wire to a dynamo and ob-
tam power. Of the Divine Self alone it
is said, "All power is given unto thee in
heaven and earth." This is literally true.
All power is ours if we identify our-
selves with the Divine, and the synthesis
58 The Mystic Life
of all power is the ability to merge the
personality into the Divine, or become
one with the Father through the Christ.
This gives all power because, having ac-
complished this, all things are possible.
The choice is man's.
As man is endowed with free-will, he
can choose.to take either the Right Hand
Path, merge the human into the Divine
and use his God-power to do the work
of his Father-in-heaven, or he can graft
his God-power onto the stalk of per-
sonality and, by making the intellect alone
his guiding star, deliberately forswear his
Father-in-heaven and become a child of
evil (or the devil) and do the works of
his father, the devilthe concentrated
force of man's wrong thoughts, acts, and
creations, the perverted reflection of the
Good Law (the Lord) on Earth.
By refusing to let the light of the
Divine penetrate farther than the intellect,
he closes the door of his heart and allows
the Light to illumine only his human
brain which, without the guidance of his
Illumination 59
heart, permits evil to manifest, especially
intellectual and spiritual pride, which are
the most subtle and insidious of all evils.
Therefore, to teach mankind how to an-
fold inner faculties and how to use their
power for personal ends would be quite
as reprehensible as for a gardener to
propagate, in a garden devoted to raising
food for man, some poisonous vine which
the gardener knew the very richness of
the soil, the sunshine, and the cultivation
would cause to grow and, finally, either
destroy the food or impregnate it with
poison.
This is why the inner teachings of
the sacred Mysteries arc given only to
the few. It is no Being who gives; it
is the blossom of the Soul which opens
and receives the Light of Illumination,
as the rose unfolds its petals to the light
of the Sun. If you do not receive this
Light, know well that the blossoming
time has not arrived for you. Had it
arrived no one could withhold the Light
from you.
60 The Mystic Life
Natural unfoldment.
When the Divine mystery of the in-
dwelling of the Christ has taken place in
the Soul and the disciple has begun to
realize in a vital, living way, that the
overshadowing of his Divine Self is a
real blending or indwelling, then the
works of his Father will unfold within
him just as the blade, the ear, and the
full corn in the ear unfold in the plant.
Then, and then only, is he ready for the
inner teaching; for he must be trained to
put forth his blossoms in the manner best
for humanity. Each step gained must
not only show in the life, but the powers
that go with that step must also mani-
fest.
If we control one selfish trait which
before held us captive, we may know that
we have taken a real step upward. And
the first and greatest of all magical
powers to be attained by the pupil is the
magical power of controlling himself, of
day after day mastering the little things,
with no heroics, perhaps with no one to
commend him or realize that he is mak-
Illumination 61
ing any effort, yet still controlling his
little tempers, his little impatiences, little
acts of selfishness, his tendency to criti-
cize and all the little, trifling things he
knows are wrong, but which seem too
petty to be worth mentioning.
Hidden obstaclee.
Let no pupil ask for special lessons
until these little things are in a measure
conquered, for the building of these little
lessons into his life is the most "practi-
cal" formula that can be given him. And
if there is anyone who has thus assimi-
lated the Christ and grown to live the
Christ-life, who has gained the power of
looking at the self, who has fulfilled the
injunction, "Know thyself," yet who says
he still lacks Illumination, let him know
well that there is some hidden corner of
his heart or life into which the Light is
not able to penetrate, sonic closed door
which he refuses to open. To him we
would say: Look deeper and meditate in
the Silence and pray for a knowledge of
thyself. At the same time go forth and
62 The Mystic Life
help to bring the Light to some other
Soul, for in so doing, in some part of
your nature you will find that which
keeps out the full radiance of the Christ-
light. Let him "Learn to look intelli-
gently into the hearts of men. Regard
most earnestly your own heart. For
through your own heart comes the one
light which can illuminate life, and make
it clear to your eyes."8
Intellectual and Heart Development necea-
lary.
Occult formulas are more apt to em-
phasize self-satisfaction and self-right-
eousness than to help toward self-
mastery. John the Baptist had been
educated in all the law of the Mysteries,
had lived apart from the world in the
caves of the wilderness, had fed on
locusts and wild honey, and had spent his
life following out the most rigid formu-
lanes of the Essenes, yet Jesus sad:
"Verily I say unto you, Among them that
5Lipht o. ths Path. Coffins, Part IT. Rules
10-12.
IllumOEnat ion 63
are born of women there hath not arisen
a greater than John the Baptist: not-
withstanding he that is least in the king-
dom of heaven is greater than he."4
This means that the very humblest per-
son who has correlated with the Christ
withinwhich is entering the kingdom
of heavenis greater than even a great
intellectual teacher such as John the
Baptist.
A ihort- cut.
Both intellectual development and heart
development are neccssary, but, if the
heart is first developed and a conscious
union made with the Christ within, all
things are revealed unto you. This is, as
it were, the short cut to Mastery.
It is a singular fact that none of the
Great TeachersKrishna, Buddha, Jesus,
eft.ever wrote a word, or were, in
Their day, looked upon as great intel-
lectual teachers, but the example of
Their lives lives in the world to this day,
4 St. Matthew. xi. 11.
64 The Mystic Life
and can never die, because They made
this divine correlation, literally manifest-
ing God in the flesh. It is neither the
words you speak nor the routine of your
life that affects the world, but something
more. It is the power of that which is
"the way, the truth, and the life." In
other words, both that which you teach
and the example of your life must prove
conclusively that it is the Christ within
you that worketh through you both to
will and to do.
It must not be a mere lip-service, it
must be so true and so convincing that it
will radiate from you rather than be a gar-
ment assumed before the world or a mere
intellectual cloak that blinds your own
eyes, for the Christ within you must be
the Truth as well as the Way and the Life.
Recapithiation.
If there is any doubt left in regard to
the Path we point out to reach this at-
tainment, we will briefly recapitulate.
Think only constructively if you desire
spiritual growth.
Illumination 65
Do cheerfully and well the duty that
lies nearest.
Conquer the little faults as they show
themselves.
Never let a day close without its period
of self-examination, meditation, and com-
munion with the Divine before going to
sleep.
Do unto others as ye would that others
should do unto you.
Learn to love in its truest and grand-
est sense.
Do not criticize others, even though
your criticism seems just; for to do so
you must dwell mentally in the conditions
you critinize.
Be not afraid to face and recognize
your own faults.
At the same time be not discouraged.
Have perfect confidence in your power
ultimately to conquer through the Christ
within.
For the voice of the Christ declares,
"Lo, I am with you aiway, even unto the
end of the world."
CHAPTER IV
THE MYsTIc CHRIST
"By revelation he made known unto me the
mystery; (as I wrote afore in a few words
whereby, when ye read, ye may understand
my knowledge in the mystery of Christ)."
Ephesia,,.r. iii. 3-4.
"I am crucified with Christ nevertheless
I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me:
and the life which I now live in the flesh I
live by the faith of the Son of God, who
loved me, and gave himself for me."
GaIaHau, ii, 20.
Men still seek spiritual guidance.
DESPITE the complaint that the world
is becoming irreligious, and that men are
deserting the churches for the golf links,
the tennis court, and the motor car, "a
list of questions sent to one hundred and
twenty of the most prominent business
men of Toledo" (U. S. A.) disclosed
the fact that "there is a pathetic yearn-
ing for a sufficient faith" in religious
teachings and an astonishing amount of
"deep and serious thought evidently given
66
The Mystic Christ 67
the subject" among business men. "Two
impressions are made upon the pro-
pounder of the questions. One is that
men are interested as much as ever in the
history of the world, in the great re-
ligious questions regarding life and
destiny. The other is that never has
there been greater need, nor greater op-
portunity, for ministers to present in-
telligently, rationally, and earnestly the
fundamental truths of Christianity. Men
are hungrily seeking for true guidance
in things spiritual."'
Intuitive perception of spiritual things.
'With all this desire for guidance, there
could be no startling denials of doctrines
commonly cherished by the Church were
the esoteric, mystic, and spiritual inter-
pretations of those doctrines presented in-
stead of the literal, materialistic, and his-
torical. The day has passed when the
Church can arbitrarily place a certain in-
terpretation upon the spiritual mysteries
iRey. George R. Wallace in The AdvaNce,
Chicago
68 The Mystic Life
and say to her followers, "Thus must ye
believe." For the consciousness of
spiritual freedom is sweeping the world,
and there is an inner heart-knowledge
which refuses to respond to that which
does not vibrate to its intuitive revelation
of truth.
Any presentation of truth must touch
the heart and square itself with the
experiences of daily life, else it will be
rejected in this age whose slogan is
"Efficiency." As well might we expect
the world to accept and cling to medieval
conceptions of science as to expect it to
be satisfied with dogmas founded upon
interpretations of the scriptures made
during the Dark Ages. Unless religious
teachings, like all others, can advance,
expand, and successfully solve the practi-
cal problems of the age, they must in-
evitably be discarded and left behind.
The historic end the Mystic Christ.
This is especially true if the teachings
pertaining to the Christ are made
synonymous with the personality of Jesus
The Mystic ChÑt 69
as an historical character. For, in reality,
the Christ which is worshipped by
Christendom to-day is not the historic
personality portrayed by the gospels, but
the Mystic Christ as set forth in the
Epctics of Paul. The great discrepancy,
between the two presentations has long
been a puzzle to biblical scholars and has
caused such confusion in the minds of
thoughtful students that many, despairing
a reasonable solution that would satisfy
both their reason and their heart-hunger
for spiritual food, turn from such stones
of material conceptions offered them as
bread.
The difficulty arises through a failure
to distinguish between the Mystic
Christ-principle, which "hath shined in
our hearts, to give the light of knowl-
edge of the glory of God," and the per-
sonality of the teacher Jesus who inani-
fested an individualization of this force to
a superlative degree. This distinction is
so plainly made throughout the New
Testament that only the decadence of
knowledge concerning the Mysteries and
70 The Mystic Life
the lack of training in esoteric philosophy
as a requirement for the ministry can
account for the utter ignoring of it and
all that it implies.
The historic example still needed by some.
In reality there is no discrepancy be-
tween the Gospels and the Epistles, once
the philosophy of the Mystic Christ is
understood, for Jesus taught it as dis-
tinctly as did Paul. Broadly, the Gospel
picture purposely presents the manifesta-
tion of the Christ-force in humanity
as exemplified in the symbolic life of
Jesuswhile the picture given by the
Epistles represents the same force as ex-
isting in the higher mystic realms and
manifesting to the heart of man through
his awakened spiritual faculties. In one
sense the Gospel picture is meant to in-
spire those whose spiritual development
requires a physical embodiment and a
personal, historic example after which to
pattern their lives. These are but chil-
dren in spiritual understanding, to whom
the beautiful embodiment of the Christ
The Mystic Christ 71
within the manifested Jesus, the Man of
Sorrows, forms a picture with great emo-
tional appeal. If they stop there, how-
ever, and are satisfied with the person-
ality of the human teacher, they never
really find the Christ as a personal, re-
ligious experience, nor do they even
touch the hem of His garment. They
worship but a picture and are doomed to
disappointment and sorrow, for some day
they must see their human Christ-ideal
crucified, cast down, and destroyed.2
Each of you, as you grow in spiritual
grace and unfoldment, must have more
than a physical ideal, however perfect;
for you are both body and spirit, human
and Divine, and you cannot understand,
describe, or realize your real Mystic Self,
with all its strange longings and prompt-
ings, its flashes of illumination, its
glimpses of glory, until you have out-
grown the limitations which inhere in a
human ideal of the Mystic Christ. Be-
cause of this duality there is no one, be
2 By historical research, higher criticism, etc.
72 The Mystic Life
he ever so stern a materialist, who in
crucial moments when self-analysis is
forced upon him, can deny that there is a
great unknown region of mystery within
him; indefinable longings, the urge of the
Christ-force within struggling for rec-
ognition and expression.
The Mystic Christ must be born In you.
The Pauline picture is for those who
need no historic personality as a model;
those who open wide the doors of their
hearts at the knock of the Mystic Christ;
who can respond to the downpouring of
Divine Love and through a divine ecstasy
can enter into the higher realms of
spiritual consciousness where the powers
of the human mind are transcended and
where they grasp those things which can
only be spiritually discerned; those things
which are "revealed unto his holy
apostles and prophets by the Spirit."3
In another sense both pictures are nec-
essary. The literal, personal example or
3 Rphe,asjr. Il. S.
The Mystic Christ 73
letter of the law, is not satisfying to the
awakened Soul. It must be animated and
illumined by the vision of the Mystic
Christ, else it degenerates into hero wor-
ship or idolatry. On the other hand, the
mystic conception must have its physical
embodimentChrist must be born in you
in the life of the discipleor it is but
a passing vision. Both are necessary.
Just as the physical Sun is necessary to
focus and make physical the forces whose
origin is in the Spiritual Sun, so must
there be a physical embodiment to focus
and make manifest upon the physical
plane the Mystic Christ-force.
The Christ Is the creative aspect of
Divinity.
Jesus the man was an Avatar who, as
He himself says, "came down from
heaven, not to do mine own will, but the
will of him that sent me," while the
Mystic Christ is not'a personality, but a
Divine Essence. It is a spiritual emana-
tion from the Godhead, the Son of God
or the Godhead in its creative aspect;
74 The Mystic Life
that mystic Power or Principle which
fructifies and animates all manifestations
of life. It is the Divine Creative Force,
a great stream of life-giving, creative
Essence which manifests in all things on
all planes as the animating Principle of
the One Life. In Nature it is focused
in and through the physical Sun, for only
as the Sun pours out its life-giving,
fructifying powersheds its symbolic
bloodcan the One Life manifest in the
various forms of Nature and evolve them
to perfection. In the physical universe it
is the same animating Principle that
flamed out from the Godhead in the be-
ginning when the Elohim said, "Let there
be light." And it is this same mystic,
creative Light which must enter the chaos
of your outer life, even as it did the
chaos of the solar system, crc your life
can begin its conscious spiritual evolution.
All the physical and mental evolution is
but a preparation for this new and higher
step. Witness Paul's confirmation of
this view. "For God, who commanded
the light to shine out of darkness, hath
The Mystic Christ 75
shined in our hearts, to give the light of
the knowledge of the glory of God in the
face of Jesus Christ."
Its center in man is the heart.
Just as the creative Christ-force is
focused in physical Nature in the Sun, so
must it have its focal center in man.
This center is primarily in the heart, and
since the heart contains focal points con-
nected with all the sacred centers in man,
from that great center the Christ-light is
reflected into the corresponding sub-
centers in all his bodiesin the physical
body in the sun-center, the solar plexus;
in the psychic body in the pineal gland;
in the mental body in the power of in-
tuition; in the spiritual body in the
spiritual heart-center. The Christ-force
therefore, is the animating Power back
of all life and evolutionphysical,
mental, psychic, spiritual. "It is the life
essence of this Law (love)the Christ-
forcewhich has overcome the world or
411 Conntkia,u iv, 6.
76 The Mystic Life
which has brought about the physical
evolution of the planet. Hence it must
also bring about your spiritual evolution
and bring to perfection all who choose to
work in harmony.with the Christ."5 In
Nature it is the unquenchable urge to-
ward perfection which adapts the or-
ganism to its environment. Among men
it is the divine urge toward union with
God; the effort "to bring the divine
within them into harmony with the divine
in the universe," as the mystic philosopher
Plotinus expresses it.
St. Paul refers to the Mystic Christ.
St. Paul, who is universally admitted
to be the organizer and founder of the
Christian Church, through whose teach-
ings the followers of Jesus were raised
from an obscure Jewish sect to a power-
ful spiritual movement and through whose
influence the name was changed from
Nazarenes to Christians, distinctively
sets forth only the Mystic Christ. He
5The Voice of Izu. Curtis., 214.
The Mystic ChriSt 77
knew nothing of the personality of Jesus
and never confused the historic character
with the Christ-principle which had ii-
luinined him. When he says: "But we
speak the wisdom of God in a mystery,
even the hidden wisdom," he shows that
he taught only the esoteric Mystic Christ
of the Mysteriesinto which he had been
initiated among the Greeksbut with
that intellectual ideal illumined by the per-
sonal, spiritual experience symbolized by
his miraculous conversion (initiation).
Like many a scholar to this day, learned
in esoteric philosophy and sincerely wor-
shipping his ideal of the Mystic Christ,
Paul felt justified in persecuting the fol-
lowers of the poor Hebrew cult whose
teachings he considered were personal-
izing and therefore degrading the Mystic
Christ ideal which he worshipped. He
proved the sincerity of his worship, how-
ever, by changing his whole life when the
Spirit revealed to him that he could not
despise another's highest idealseven
I Cori,Skia,u, ii, 7.
78 The Mystic Life
though seemingly low to himor perse-
cute the followers of another teacher,
without crucifying his own Mystic Christ.
Paul never met Jesus.
Paul not only never knew Jesus the
man, but he did not even study under the
apostles; in fact, never met them until
after he had been preaching the doctrine
of the Mystic Christ for three years, and
then he only abode with them fifteen
days.7 Twelve years later, when he next
met them, he came not to learn about
their personal teacher Jesus, but to teach
them the doctrine of the Mystic Christ.
More than this, Paul states: "I certify to
you, brethren, that the gospel which was
preached of me is not after man. For I
neither received it of man, neither was I
taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus
8
This is another evidence that
it was the Christ of the Mysteries, the
informing, spiritual, creative Principle
T Golatijass, 1, 17-18.
1, 11-12.
The Mystic CIIrfSI 79
which overshadows and illumines every
heart that will open the door and let it in,
to which Paul referred.
It is not the evolution of civilization
that brings the mystic knowledge, far
from it. Many an untutored savage is a
member of the Mystic Brotherhood of
the Elect because he has attained some
degree of the Christ-consciousness and
dwells in the mystic realm of ideality
which makes all else unreal, no matter
how incapable of expressing his vision
his intellectual faculties may be.
Christ in you.
It cannot be the personality of Jesus
of which Paul speaks when he says: "My
little children, of whom I travail in birth
again until Christ be formed in you,"
but of the awakening of the Christ-con-
sciousness, the birth of the Mystic Christ
in the heart of each disciple. And it is
during this critical period in the evolu-
tion of the Soul that every spiritual
9 GalaHa*r, lv, 19; lii, 27.
80 The Mystic Life
teacher is greatly concerned about his dis-
ciples. It is this Mystic Christ which
the disciple "puts on" when he receives
his great illumination or baptism. "For
as many of you as have- been baptized
into Christ have put on Christ." It is
this same mystic power which urges Paul
Uto make all men see what is the fellow-
ship of the mystery, which from the be-
ginning of the world bath been hid in
God, who created all things, by Jesus
Christ." 10
Christ's flesh and blood.
It is this mystic, informing, vivifying
Principle, manifesting in and through
Him, to which Jesus referred when He
said: "I am the living bread which came
down from heaven: if any man eat of
this bread, he shall live forever: and the
bread that I will give is my flesh, which
I will give for the life of the world .
Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my
blood, bath eternal life
l0E:. ii;. 9.
liSt. John. vi, 51, 54.
The Mystic Christ 81
AaaimlI&tlon neceuary.
Manifestly such statements could not
apply to any human flesh and blood nor
even to an historical personality, but were
used figuratively for that immortal, uni-
versal, mystic Principle which the per-
sonality of Jesus embodied. As the Sun's
rays come down from heaven to bring
the life-force of the Sun to Earth, that
all Nature, which eats of it or assimilates
it, may have life, so He whom we call
Jesus, a perfected spiritual Being or
Avatar,12 descended from heaven and took
upon Himself a fleshly body that He
might bring the Light of the Spiritual
Sunthe Mystic Christ-forceinto hu-
manity, that whoso eats of His fleshor
assimilates the lesson of such a physical
manifestationmay have eternal life.
Eternal life cannot be obtained by
merely observing or studying spiritual
truths, for they must be eaten and as-
similated into the nature, built into the
character, made a part of the lifejust as
physical food must be assimilated to be
12 The Vo,c of hfr Curtiss. Chapter x.
82 The Mystic Life
built into the bodyand manifest as love,
tolerance, charity, brotherhood, and
purity, crc you have truly eaten of the
body of the Christ. Only as the Christ-
force is embodied in you can you have
eternal life.
Moral model. Insufficient.
As the perfected physical embodiment
of the Christ is the mystic bread, so is
the blood of the Christ the spiritual life-
principle of that body. To grow spirit-
ually it is not enough merely to model
your lives upon the physical nianifesta-
tionthe bodymerely to lead ethical
and morally blameless lives, but you must
also drink of the blood; drink in that
spiritual creative Power or Divine Life-
force which shall re-create you, which
shall make your lives not merely auto.
inatic moral models, but dynamic, radi-
ant centers of force for good, vibrant
with that creativeness whose very enaana-
tions shall fructify and awaken in every-
thing you contact an answering vibration
and a quickened life. "It is the spirit
The Mystic Christ 83
that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth noth-
ing." There must be an infusion of the
creative life-force of the Christ into the
personality until it becomes one with the
Mystic Christ.
Pint steps.
The first step in this attainment is to
open your eyes. Pray for realization.
Pray for understanding. Then there
must come a sweeping away of old con-
ditions, a deliberate turning away from
the allurements of the outer life and at
the same time an opening of your heart
to the Mystic Christ. Refuse to allow
your spiritual growth to be hampered
either by thoughts of poverty, loneliness,
sickness, or inharmony. These things
may come, but your life is hid in the
Mystic Christ and they cannot overcome
or move you. As you turn away from
the old conditions which have bound you
so long, seek diligently in your hearts for
that which holds you to them. How
often have you said to yourselves, "Why
am I eating of the husks with the swine?
84 The Mystic Life
Why am I in this far country of physical
conceptions and material thoughts when
my Father's home in the mystic realms
is full of love, of food, of fine raiment
and of welcome awaiting me?"
And the cry of the Mystic Christ an-
swers you from out the ages, "Take eat;
this is my body. . . . Drink ye all of it;
for this is my blood. . . . Behold, I
stand at the door and knock; if any man
hear my voice, and open the door, I will
come in to him, and will sup with him,
and he with me." 13
Glimpses of glory.
Oh the love that has waited so long I
And yet, were it not that, again and
again as the ages roll on and on and your
Souls clothe themselves in fleshly bodies,
you have taken up the old mystic teach-
ings, have responded to the great love
that was yearning over you, you would
not be where you are to-day. Often, in
your long evolutionary journey have you
caught glimpses of the light and the
13 Revdat,on iii. 20.
The Mystic Christ 85
glory, have heard the tinkling of the
cymbals and the dancing of feet in the
halls of your Father's home. Many a
time have you stopped to listen. Many a
time have your eyes been opened and you
have seen the glory. Yet you have slept
on. You have said, "A little more sleep.
A little more struggle. Another earthly
pilgrimage and then, bye and bye, I will
arise and return to my Father." Many
of you, alas, have laid down to rest by
the wayside. You have slept while the
procession marched by. The Lord of
Life has passed you in the night while
your eyelids were heavy with sleep.
Awake
Again to-day this same Mystic Christ
comes to you as the herald of the dawn
of the new Aquarian Age and says: "I
bring to you a message of peace, of en-
couragement and love. I call to you to
awake I Awake! Sleep no longer! De-
termine to shake off the lethargy and de-
pression which tells one that he is far,
far from his Father's house, alone, poor,
86 The Mystic Life
unloved and miserable; that tells another
that he is surrounded only with inhar-
mony, that no one understands or loves
or appreciates him; That tells another that
the struggle homeward is too fierce, that
the waves of life in the world are sweep-
ing over him and must earry him out
and away; that there is no actual proof
of the glory of the Lord. Another says,
'Let me thrust my hands into the nail
prints. Let me prove that this Christ
whom I have daily crucified still lives.
To me words are of no avail. I have
outgrown your phrases and am tired of
words; tired of hearing the reiteration
of those great things which for me never
come to pass. Why do they not, if all
this is true?'
What hold, you back?
"If you have faith as a grain of mus-
tard seed you may say to this mountain,
Be ye removed, and it will obey you."
What is the mountain? It is the thing
that holds you back. It is the condition
that stands between you and the realiza-
The Mystic Christ 87
tion. It is the crowd that separates you
from the Mystic Christ as He passes by.
Seek diligently in your hearts and re-
move it. Follow swiftly and touch His
robe, and believe in the healing force
that flows from Him for your regenera-
tion.
Why seek the living among the deaa?
"Ye who have been called from out the
darkness of the ages! Awake to-day to
your great privileges and possibilities!
Already out of the darkness of the night,
while you slumber and sleep, goes forth
the cry, 'Behold! The Bridegroom
cometh I' This is no fanciful imagining.
It is a reality, a reality of the Soul.
Why weep ye? Why seek ye the living
among the dead things of the outer life?
"How often have you gathered together
in the past when clouds of darkness, of
ignorance, and superstition hung low over
humanity, when there could be no hope of
immediate surcease from your watching
and waiting! How often has each one
of you gone boldly forth in past incarna-
88 The Mystic Life
tions, giving your lives for that which
you believed to be Truth! By such steps
and sacrifices have you, little by little,
wandered onward and upward until to-
day I find you in this Mystic Order. And
still I feel a sadness over the hearts of
many that is like a pall of darkness. I
hear the cry, 'I cannot, oh, I cannot con-
quer,' or 'I am so cast down. and dis-
appointed. Why tarries my glory so
long?' And yet, even while this sad cry
lingers in your hearts, even while the
teardrops glisten in your lashes, lot with-
out, upon the mountain top, the sound of
eager feet and the shouting of the multi-
tude, 'Behold! The Bridegroom cometh I
Go ye forth to meet him I'"
The mystic realization.
"How is this going forth to be accoin-
pushed? It is the going forth from your
mental environment, from that which you
have falsely created; the donning of your
wedding garment that you may be ready
U4 Message from the Mast,i. Curtlis.
The Mystk ChriSt 89
to do homage to the coming Bridegroom;
the shaking off of the darkness of despair
and sorrow that you may join in the glad
hymns of welcome as He cometh. Verily,
verily, as you enter into this mystic
realization, which means so much to your
spiritual growth, you will meet the Bride-
groom in proportion to the power of the
realization you have of the meaning of
what you are privileged to receive.1'
Forget your mistakei.
"All the trials through which you are
passing are but the mud of the journey
clinging to your feet. Here is your
Father's home; the sanctuary of peace
and love. Here must you put off your
shoes that you may enter cleanly shod.
And oh I while you are here, forget the
muddy way you have trodden I Realize
that here you really touch the outer robe
of the glory of the Master. If you can
realize this and, like the woman who
touched the robe of Jesus in the crowd,
believe that virtue has gone forth from
90 The Mystic Life
the touch, then will the Son of Man turn
and look at you and you shall see Hùn
face to face. Only such faith believes
that the touch of His garment can heal.
In the hurrying crowd this woman, who
was poor and old and sick, still had the
faith to believe that could she but touch
His robe she would be healed. And, lo I
it was more than that, for He turned
and looked upon her?'
Pace to face.
"This is the lesson I would leave with
you. The Robe of the Mystic Christ is
the work He is putting forth; is the love
that He is pouring into the hearts that
are open to receive it; is the magnetic
bond of sympathy that you feel one to-
ward the other; is the responsive love
that thrills you as you read these teach-
irigs; is the vision of the power of the
Mystic Christ within you to conquer,
which these teachings awaken in you.
This is the Robe, the outer covering of
the Mystic Christ. Touch it in faith.
Feed on it in your hearts by faith and
The Mystic christ 91
thanksgiving. Believe in its power. Be-
lieve that it iS in very truth His garment.
Then He will turn and look and you shall
see Him face to face."1'
CHAPTER V
RECOMMENDArIONS roE DAILY LIFE
WHEN the reader has assimilated the
ideas contained in the previous chapters,
he will realize that the attainment of
union with his Higher Self, which is one
with God, is a duty, nay a pleasure, which
he owes to himself and to the world.
He is then recommended to formulate for
himself a plan of actinn by which he will
eventually attain his ideal. The plan
should include a certain time set aside
for study, for recreation and for ,nedita-
Sian and spiritual realization, as well as
for the activities of the material life.
And this routine, once carefully laid
out, should be followed religiously, but
with such reasonable latitude that the
routine does not become the master in-
stead of the servant; that the follower
does not become pedantic, intolerant, or
92
Recomtnendalions for Daily Life 93
fanatical, instead of becoming a well-
balanced, poised, and adaptable Soul. For
he who seeks to attain the highest by fol-
lowing one impulse to-day and another
to-morrow, unbalanced by discreton and
wisdom; who does one thing to-day be-
cause it appeals to his mood and neglects
all other parts of the plan and all other
duties cannot expect to advance in a well-
balanced manner.
The self-discipline of a definite plan,
developed in a certain order and accord-
ing to a general routine makes for well-
balanced and harmonious progress in the
spiritual life as well as in the physical.
Yet man must always be the master and
dictator of his own life, never a slave
to his self-appointed and needful rules;
for over all these rules is a higher law
whose mandates must be obsenred, s. e.,,
the personal guidance of his Real Self.
His daily life should be arranged in such
an orderly fashion that he can easily set
it aside temporarily at the call of the
Real Self, without upsetting it. This he
could not do if his life were in confusion.
94 The Mystic Life
To listen to the Voice of Intuition and
to be ever responsive to inspiration is es-
sential to spiritual progress, even if it
temporarily interrupts the routine. But
there is much to be accomplished between
the periods of inspiration, if the new
ideas thus received are to be worked out
and made to manifest effectively in the
life. Inspiration will be more dependable
if there be a regular time set apart for
its recognition and reception. By follow-
ing this method the inspiration becomes
so frequent as ultimately to be a con-
tinuous conscious guidance in all things,
both great and smalL
The study of spiritual things should be
carried out at regular times, and special
attention should be given to the symbolic
or hidden aspects as contrasted with the
historical or material viewpoints. If this
is done, the Higher Self will be more
able to inspire and help to a realization of
truth.
Meditation is turning over in the mind
a thought or idea that you may see it
from every standpoint and grasp all its
Recommendations for Daily Life 95
phases and relations. It is an active
mental process, which forms a necessary
part of every spiritual student's routine.
The first step towards meditation is con
centration, the focusing of the attention
upon the chosen subject or idea. Then,.
keeping the mind poised upon the subject,
the imagination should be used in thinking
out its relation to yourself, to other
people, and other parts of the subject.
Take a text from the Bible such as:
"Where two or three are gathered to-
gether in My name, there am I in the
midst," "I and my Father are One," etc.,
or some thought such as "Truth,"
"Purity," "Love," etc., and spend ten
minutes in dwelling on its various aspects.
This should be a daily pleasure.
Spiritual realization.
The object of spiritual realization is to
make real to us that which we know is
Truth but which appears to the senses as
unreal. Thus, we should endeavour to
realize our oneness with God, the action
of the Christ-force pouring through all
96 The Mystic Life
creation, spiritualizing and uplifting it,
etc. This endeavour, which is the real
object of all religion, is also called Con-
templation or Entering the Silence and
is usually the culmination of a series of
.steps in a regular order, thus:
Relaxation.
Concentration.
Meditation.
Realization or Entering the
Silence.
When Jesus told his disciples to enter
into the closet and shut the door, the
closet referred to the Silence, and the
"door" which they were to shut was the
door of the mind. The Father which
seeth in secret is the Higher Self, who
does not require words, but who seeth in
secret, i.e., in the Silence, through vibra-
tions of love. The open reward is the
peace, comfort and spiritual upliftinent
which comes as the result of such com-
muning with the Father-in-heaven.
To remind ourselves of the God-con-
sciousness within and to aid us in focus-
ing the creative power of our thought
Recommendations for Daily Life 97
upon it, we should avail ourselves of
every aid to this end, such as ceremonies,
prayers, mantra, set times for devotion
and worship, the occurrence of sunrise,
noon, and sunset, or any other factor
that will help to keep before our mind's
eye the ideal to be attained.
Special concentration houra.
We request that all pupils who ear-
nestly desire to co-operate in this Move-
ment or who have the success of this
Order at heart, pause for a moment each
day as near the stroke of noon as pos-
sible and send a prayer or a vital creative
thought of love to this Center, that it
may be perfected in purity and power to
accomplish its great mission for hu-
manity. This should not interfere with
your daily activities, for you have only
to turn mentally to this Center and say,
"In the name of the Living Christ may
the Heart Center of The Order of
Christian Mystics be preserved as a pure
channel through which Divine Lov;
Life, and Wisdom may manifest. May
98 The Mystic Life
increasing power be given it to accom-
plish its great work for humanity."
When repeating this prayer, realize
that the Heart Center includes more than
those personalities at. the Center who are
engaged in the work of the Order, for
the Heart Center of every movement in-
cludes the heart-love of all members,
no matter where they may be. Hence
your loving thoughts directed towards
helping the Order will form a magic
chain uniting all true members in the
bonds of love. It will also create a vor-
tex into which there will irresistibly be
drawn the positive force of the Divine.
Do not try to make the time coincide
with the same hour in Washington. Take
the time of your own locality. For, as
it is noon somewhere all the time, and
as we have pupils in all parts of the
world, the repetition of this prayer at
noon will make a continuous stream of
force pouring into the Center unceas-
ingly.
To come into close vital touch with
this Order, each pupil should set apart
Recom,nendatio,u for Daily Life 99
at least fifteen minutes (thirty if pos-
sible) every Sunday evening between 8:00
and 830, during which the effort
should be made to correlate with the
special meeting held at the Center at
that time.
At that time each should repeat, either
aloud or mentally, the Prayer of Devo.
tion and the Healing Prayer, and con-
centrate on coming to this Center in
thought, realizing that at this time the
Master is in the midst of His children;
that His love includes all, no matter how
distant; that at this time especially He
is gathering all together to bless them,
and that the streams of love and healing
power are going out over the lines of
force which connect each pupil with this
Center. Over these lines of force the
pupils on their part should send their love
and help and a strong will that this
Movement shall lack for nothing (either
spiritually or materially) to make it a
powerful factor on all planes to help
humanity.
While the helpful forces are sent out
100 The Mystic Life
to all alike, nevertheless those who thus
consciously correlate with them and
who give of their substancewhich in-
cludes their love and earnest desire to
help on all planeswill receive in exact
proportion to the earnestness and devo-
tion they express, for, by their desire to
become co-workers in this Movement for
the upliftment of humanity, they are
literally merging themselves into oneness
with the streams of living force poured
out by the Lodge through this Order;
for their desires are creative and will
bring forth after their kind.
If any find it impossible to be alone at
this time, let them at least send us a
strong thought of loving help, even if
they are in the midst of a crowd.
The Founders will be glad to know of
any experiences the pupils may have in
correlating with the Center in this serv-
ice.
APPENDIX
PART I
ANNOUNCEMENT
"Bebold. I bring you good tidings of great
Joy.,,
To AU earnest seekers after spiritual
truth whose sincere desire is to progress
in the spiritual life, and who wish the
opportunity of coming into closer touch
with those Masters of Wisdom who,
through all ages, have been the Teachers,
Guides and Elder Brothers of humanity,
there comes the following message:
In accordance with the geometrical de-
sign of the universe, a point in evolution
has now been reached when an advanced
Order has been established upon the
earth-plane to give once more a universal
conception of Truth, but couched in
modern terms and including, instead of
excluding, the many advances in science
101
102 AppendixPart I
invention, historical research, etc., of the
twentieth century.
This Order is not an organization in
the general acceptance of the term. Its
founders and agents are not pupils of
any human teacher or "astral guide," nor
is the Order connected with either the
outer or inner work of any occult or-
ganization now in ezirtence on the
physical-plane, yet it aims to include the
best in all alinilar movements.
The feUowihip of The Order of Christian
Mystics.
The Order of Christian Mystics is but
one name. for a great Cosmic Order
which has always existed and through
which all Souls who have reached Mas-
tery have passed on some plane, at a
certain stage of their evolution. It has
been represented upon the earth-plane at
certain cyclic intervals in all ages, and
been known under various names, yet
always emphasizing the universality of
Truth and presenting a Cosmic Philoso-
phy which can be interpreted and used
AppendixPart I 103
by every sincere seeker after Truth from
his own angle of vision, and at any stage
of unfoldment he may reach.
Its manifestation upon the earth-plane
during the present cycle began on Jan-
uary 1st, 1908, its numerical name, The
Order of the 15, being then used. But
now that the Order is reaching that
great class who are looked upon as ortho-
dox Christians, yet who are eagerly seek-
ing more definite instruction concerning
the mysteries of the spiritual life, the
name of the philosophy which the Order
presents is used instead.
The Order of Christian Mystics is a
nonsectarian, unifying spiritual move-
silent, inspired by an unselfish love for
humanity and a desire to help mankind
recognize the reality of and make practi-
cal use of its spiritual guidance in the
daily life.
It is Christian in that it seeks the uni-
versal Cosmic Christ Principi; no mat-
ter by what name that Universal
Principle is known in other lands; and in
that it bases its teachings on the Chris-
104 AppendixPart I
tian rather than on Oriental scriptures.
It is Mystic in that it teaches its pupils
the mystery of how to come into personal
and conscious touch with the Christ-con-
sciousness within, and with the Spiritual
Teachers in the higher realms.
It is not put forth to form a new sect
or cult or further to divide up and sep-
arate humanity, or to form another
pigeonhole in which to isolate a few fol-
lowers; nor does it seek to secure a fol-
lowing for any human leader or per-
sonality.
It affords a haven of rest for the
many weary, storm-tossed souls who
have met with disappointment after dis-
appointment in following, one after the
other, the great claims made by the pop-
ular cult of the moment, for at present
the great mass of seekers still rim after
every forceful personality. The students
of this Order are taught to 'follow imper-
sonal principles, laws and spiritual truths,
not personalities.
It comforts and encourages those who
are discouraged by the many man-made
AppendixPart I 105
limitations which seem to hedge about
the approach to the realization of the
Inner Life or to the personal contact
with the higher Spiritual Teachers of
mankind; those who have knociced at so
many gates and sought in so many ave-
nues only to find that unless they believe
as they are told and accept Truth as in-
terpreted by a particular cult and ac-
cept blindly the word of those mortals
who stand at a partkular gate, they can-
not hope to enter into a realization of
the Divine within themselves or hope for
recognition by the Great Ones.
To all such the Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics brings a mes-
sage of Freedom, Light, and Satisfac-
tion; Freedom through the Light of
Knowledge of spiritual laws and a reali-
zation of the graciousness of God to all
mankind.
"And ye shall know the Truth, and
the Truth shall make you free." The
knowledge and realization of the Truth
is unto all people. There is no exdusive-
ness or favoritism in Truth. All is open
106 AppendixPart I
to those who qualify, not by outer cere-
monies. but by preparing themselves
within to correlate with the higher phases
of consciousness and realization.
Since all men have their own way of
looking at Truth and can accept and
realize it best along that line, the Great
Teachers of humanity have established
the Order of Christinn Mystics as a great
clearing house for all phases of Truth,
without the limitations of creed and
dogma; an Order in which an all-inclu-
sive philosophy can be expounded and
the fundamental laws of manifestation
underlying all phases of life, conscious-
ness, and evolution can be presented im-
personally to all, no matter what their
race, color, religion, or stage of unfold-
ment.
Therefore the Order of Chthtian Mys-
tics is a spiritual Movement, without
creed, dogma, rules, or pledges. Instead
of emphasizing the differences between
its teachings and all others, it strives to
establish a platform so universal that
its pupils can find in it some one thing
AppendrParg I 107
to which they can agree, even though
that one thing be not the same for all.
Thus this Order, therefore, should be-
come a link to join the best efforts of all
into one great universal movement which
shalt spread Brotherhood upon the Earth
through spiritual understanding.
True Brotherhood does not mean that
all must think alike, but that each rec-
ognize Truth wherever found and de,non-
.strate love and tolerance toward those
who find a different aspect of Truth
more helpful.
This Order does not ask its pupils to
leave any church, society, or organization
to which they feel attracted,, unless they
find in this Order their true spiritual
home and desire to work exclusively with
it. It but seeks to help all to under-
stand the workings of the great funda-
mental Laws of Life, and thus enable
them to do their own work the better,
in their own way and place.
It asks no one to subordinate his in-
dividuality or to follow any leader, but
leaves all free to follow the Truth as
108 AppendixPart I
revealed to them. It does not require
that any of its teachings be accepted by
its students because some authority says
they are true, for unless a teaching ap-
peals to the heart and rings true to a
Soul it is not true to the consciousness
of that Soul. Hence, no authority is
enforced, except the authority of that
Voice within each heart which recognizes
and witnesses to Truth wherever found.
Understand this point clearly: It will
be only through your own individual
effort, your attitude of Soul, and the
character of your subsequent life that
will enable you to place yourself in per-
sonal, conscious touch with the Masters
of Wisdom. It depends upon no person-
ality but your own.
Organizations.
All organizations and movements which
receive help from the spiritual-plane have
their own particular work to do.
Whether they have succeeded in the task
set before them, or whether they have
failed, is clearly shown by their results,
AppendixPart I 109
and the same rule must be applied to the
work of this Order. But many students
have outgrown organizations, having
found them too narrow and their neces-
sary limitations too binding. Hence, in
this Order an avenue of instruction and
help has been put forth that is not an or-
ganixation and which is not limited in its
activities.
This Movement is not an organization,
because it has no constitution or by-laws,
no officers (except the Founders), re-
quires no pledges and no dues, and does
not restrict a student's activity in any
society or organization. Therefore it is
not antagonistic to, nor a rival of, any
existing organization that is helping
humanity, but permits perfect freedom.
It holds out the hand of Brotherhood to
each and gives all an opportunity to
prove their ideals of Brotherhood and
tolerance which they profess.
As to other movements.
We can but reiterate that while Tue
Order of Christian Mystics stands alone,
110 AppendLvPart I
nevertheless it stands for Truth wher-
ever found, its motto being, "By their
fruits ye shall know them."
Under no circumstances does it criti-
cize any. If an organization, society, or
movement has helped one Soul to take
one step upon the Path to Mastery, it has
not wrought in vain.
"Whosoever shall give to drink unto
one of these little ones a cup of cold
water only in the name of a disciple,
verily I say unto you, he shall in no
wise lose his reward I ... Inasmuch
as ye have done it unto one of the least
of these, my brethren, ye have done it
unto me."
The fact that a movement no longer
appeals to you, no matter how helpful
it may be to others, is evidence either that
your Soul has learned the lessons that
movement had for youeven though not
mastered intellectuallyor that it is not
your true spiritual home. Hence, to re-
main connected with an organization to
which you no longer feel drawn or which
you have outgrown is as detrimental to
A/,pendixParB I 111
your Soul-growth as it would be for a
flower to remain in a pot which bad
become too small for it or whose soil
had become exhausted.
Each movement that aims to help hu-
manity has its own place and its own
work. Colored blocks are necessary in
the kindergarten, primers for children,
text-books for the training of the mind
in school and college. But when the
mind has been trained it must then put
that training to use in a practical way;
in business, under the head of the firm
or manager; in art, under a great
teacher; in spiritual things, under a
Master of Wisdom. In advanced teach-
ings each Soul must use all its experience,
discrimination, and intuition to discover
which movement really teaches best how
to apply spiritual principles to the devel-
opment within on the Path to Mastery
while still meeting the conditions of
daily life.
But remember that, because you are no
longer interested in the colored blocks or
primers you once thought so beautiful,
112 AppendixPart I
you are not to despise the children who
still cling to them, nor find fault with
the teachers of the a-b-c's. All have
their place, and the children will grow
away from the blocks when they have
learned their lesson, just as you have
grown away from earlier conceptions.
The fact that a teaching attracts and
helps you is evidence that it contains
the lessons needed by you for the step
you are taking. It is not a question of
how much ancient, mystical lore or
rituals or ceremonies you may know or
how many "degrees" you have been put
through in other organizations, but how
you have learned to demonstrate the
principles back of all these, in recogniz-
ing and correcting your faults, and in
growing closer in love and understand-
ing to your fellow men. Every sincere
and uplifting movement or teaching has
its place and has for followers those who
need the lessons expressed in its particu-
lar way.
One of the chief objects of this Move-
AppendixPort I 113
snent is to reach the great mass of people
who will not join organizations or occult
societies of any kind. Our language will
purposely be made simple, and the great
truths which we set forth, as to man and
his relation to God and the universe, will
o stated as to appeal to minds which
have not delved into the mystic formulas,
jargons, and ceremonies which were the
vehicles of Truth during the Dark Ages,
and on this account we may disappoint
many merely intellectual seekers.
Our greatest object is to help to pre-
pare the hearts and minds of mankind
for the near advent of the great Spiritual
World-Teacher who is soon to appear.
the Avatar. For He must come, not to
any one sect or movement or people, but
to all nations and peoples and to all
classes whose hearts are prepared to re-
ceive Him, both the learned and the un-
learned. For the good news of His quick
coming must be given "unto all people,"
not merely to a few intellectual thinkers
or occultists.
114 AppendirPart I
While the teachings of this Order are
those of the Wisdom Religion, they are
not theosophic or rosicrucian in the sense
of being put forth by any of the mimer-
ous societies bearing those names, for
they deal with the Christiais Bible quite
as much as with Eastern or medieval
teachings.
There is a real necessity for the vari-
ous presentations of Truth as given to
the world, for just as the climate, flora
and fauna of a country, and the lan-
guage and customs of its people vary in
different parts of the world, so must
Truth garb itself in habiliments best
suited to the development and modes of
thought of the people to whom it is
given. There is a deep, occult reason
underlying this law, and St. Paul recog-
nized it when he said, "Be ye all things
unto men."
In the development of all students a
point is reached where they need the
advanced, personal instruction, not of any
leaderswho are themselves but students
but of One who has at His command
AppendixPart I 115
all knowledge and all wisdom-4. e., a
Master of Wisdom,1 or of those who
prove by their teachings that they are in
personal touch with such a Master and
are helping in the mighty task of prepar-
ing the world for the coming of the
Avatar. Such teachers need make no
claims for themselves, for their teachings
are sufficient evidence. It is in answer to
this personal need that the Lodge of
Masters has put forth The Order of
Chthtian Mystics at this time. It comes
as a direct response to the prayers of
many, many hearts for more light, love,
sympathy, and personal guidance.
As this continent will become the home
of a new Race which will ultimately
perfect itself by the survival and inter-
blending of the fittest of all the races
now existing, so must its religious
1 It Is understood, of course, that the
Pounders do not answer the letters or compose
the Teachings, except under inspiration. They
are merely Agents of the Holy Ones badc ot
the Order, and do not pretend to be the Teacher
of the Order. The Teachings themselves are
evidence of their sources of Inspiration, Love,
and Wisdom.
116 AppcndirPart I
thought be blended and purified that it
may emerge as a pure ray which has
gathered unto itself the constructive
forces from all its sub-rays without con-
demning any.
The Order of Christian Mystics is put
forth in an effort to awaken the Christ-
love in the hearts of men, rather than to
cater to the intellect or the desire for
psychic powers, for only those who can
correlate with the Christ-power can be
gathered together to form a nucleus in
which this Power can be individualized
on Earth. The aim of this Movement is
especially to help all peoples to find the
deep, underlying, vital truths common to
all religions in their own, and differenti-
ate between those vital truths and mere
human interpretations, be they ever so an-
cient or mystical, and thus truly, and in
the only way possible, prepare for a
Universal Brotherhood on Earth in which
each Soul shall find the same vital truths
spoken in his own language,2 i. e.,
2S Acts. . 6.
AppendixPart I 117
couched and taught in terms of the reli-
gion in which he was born.
Special objects of the Order.
Complete individuality through union
wills the Higher Self.
The ideal of this Order is one of
constant self-mastery, in obedience to
the personal gWdance from within and
prompted by the ability to help humanity
to a greater realization of the Christ-
consciousness. This is the acme of in-
dividualismMasteryfor the Soul and
the acme of oneness for the Race. Nec-
essarily the fundamental assumption is
the possibility of each Soul coming into
conscious touch with his personal
Father-in-heaven.
Personal training in the philosophy
of life.
The personal training s carried on
partly on the inner planes and partly by
correspondence with the Teacher of the
Order through the Founders. Such cor-
respondence is open to all who need per-
sonal help with the problems of their
118 AppendrPart I
Soul-life. For adequate reply, the let-
ters should contain not more than three
questions. The answers will contain
clear explanations of the laws of life
which apply to the individual needs of
the pupiL Such correspondence is sa-
credly confidential.
4 higher standard of purity on all
planes.
Ere the pupil can attain to the higher
stages of spiritual consciousness he must
learn to control his thoughts as 'well as
his words and acts. The highest ideals
as to the sacredness and purity of the
marriage relation and the creative forces
are inculcated.
Esoteric interpretation of the Bible.
The special object of these teachings is
to bring So She attention of the world, as
simply as possible, the Pearls of Wisdom
in the teachings of the Master Jesus
pearls that have been overlaid wish wordy
misconceptions and dogmas so long as to
be almost unrecognizable.
Although the Christian Bible is one
of the greatest occult books ever given to
AppendirPart 1 119
humanityfor it contains not only the
wisdom of all prior scriptures, but also
a prophecy of the futureyet it is the
least understood of any scripture because
heretofore all efforts to explain it have
been upon a literal, intellectual, material
or historical basis and not from the
standpoint of its spiritual symbology and
esoteric meaning.
This Order gives its students the eso-
teric key which enables them to apply the
underlying laws of every parable, alle-
gory and miracle to their own spiritual
growth.
S. Training the senses to respond to
vibrations from all planes.
The great psychic awakening now
sweeping the world has brought many
students to the point where their inner
faculties are unfolding., This is a point
of great danger, for here the two paths
the Right Hand and the Left Hand
diverge.
This Order offers no formulas or gen-
eral exercises for developing psychic
powers, but teaches that all such facul-
120 Aj'pendixPart I
ties should evolve gradually as a natural
result of normal spiritual growth. To
seek them in the séance room or to force
them through special forms of concentra-
tion or negative "sitting for develop-
ment," etc., is abnormal. But, as the
Soul evolves, the senses must respond to
higher notes of vibration and awaken to
higher states of consciousness. Wizen this
occurs the pupil must be taught both
how to protect himself from the many
dangers of the psychic realm3 and also
how to make the best use of the newly
acquired powers in furthering his spirit-
ual growth; for psychic powers in them-
selves are not an evidence of spirituality,
merely evidence that the student is open-
ing his five senses to the ethereal or
astral world, and all depends upon the
use he makes of the powers attained.
This is a personal work which could
not be accomplished by any organization
bound by set rules.
6. Preparation for the Coming
World Teacher, The Awtar.
T Realms of she Llv,sg Dead. Curtlss.
AppendixPart 1 121
Like nearly all advanced thinkers and
movements along spiritual lines, this
Order expects a great spiritual Teacher
to appear on Earth during the early years
of this century. The prophecy, "Many
shall come in my name, saying, I am
Christ; and shall deceive many," is be-
ing literally fulfilled to-day. This Order
fully explains the true inysticisni and
fundamental laws of the Coming that the
Elect may not be deceived.4 For just
as lightning flashes from heaven as the
result of the gathering on Earth of cer-
tain forces which induce its descent, so
must the Coming be the result of the
gathering of the forces of love, tolerance,
and brotherhood which shall induce its
physical manifestation. Hence one of
the great objects of this Order is so to
train its pupils that, through their own
intuitions, they may learn to recognize
and respond to the influence of that
Great Teacher upon the higher planes
4Thia la fully explained In The Vows of
isis. Curtiis, Chapter x, and especially in The
Message of Aqaana, Curtiss.
122 Appendfr-.-Part .1
and not be led astray by' personality.
For one who requires to be told by
another, "l.a I here, La I there," cannot
recognize the manifestation when it takes
place.
7. Special training in recognizing She
oneness of Truth wherever found.
Since the human race reflects Truth,
as a diamond reflects light, through
many facets, Universal Brotherhood can
never be achieved by all men thinking
alike. Our idea of Brotherhood is uni.
versal recognition of the oneness of
Truth in its various expressions or unity
in diversity, thereby manifesting perfect
tolerance toward all. But we must re-
main firmly grounded in that aspect of
Truth which we have chosen becasue v.
have proved that it Lv the best for us.
Financial obligatlona.
In a Movement such as thia the linan-
cial side must be fully understood. Al.
though spiritual teachings must be given
freely "without money and without
price" to all who ask, yet in the present
AppendixPart 1 123
world conditions the help thus asked can-
not be presented to the world without
the financial co-operation of all who re-
ceive and desire to See that help ex-
tended more widely. The Fomiders of the
Order give all their time and talents
without salary, although, of course, they
must be adequately supported if they are
to be free to devote their undivided at-
tention to the work of the Order. But
if the Teachings are to be issued regu-
larly and the personal letters answered
promptly, salaries must be paid to ob-
tain trained and competent workers to
perform the great amount of clerical and
office wang pay for printing, advertis.
Lug, etc., connected with such a world-
wide Movement.
In the past the work and growth of the
Order has been greatly hampered and
the personal letters delayed by the la&
of adequate assistance in the office work,
the Founders having had to use up their
valuable time and energy folding les-
sons, filing letters, etc., when they should
have nothing to do but transcribe the
124 AppendixPort I
inspiration and teachings so freely given
theni, and reply to the many cries for
love, enlightenment, and help from all
parts of the world. But as we enter the
New Era now opening before the Order
and see the tremendous amount of work
which should be accomplished in the
garnering of the harvest, we must im-
press upon the minds of all who receive
the great spiritual benefits and the prac-
tical, personal help from the Order,
that a mighty opportunity is placed be-
fore them through this Order to co.
operate for the enlightenment and uplift
of humanity.
But to accomplish this the Founders
must be freed from all the mechanical
details and be enabled to devote their en-
tire time to writing and teaching. There-
fore, financial support sufficient to ac-
complish this is an obligation which
every student should gladly assume. If
the teachings help you it will be evidence
that they can help other; hence that you
can best serve humanity by making it
AppendixPart 1 125
possible to spread these particular tach-
ings abroad.
The Law of Justice permits humanity
to be helped only to the extent that,
through its own efforts, it makes it pos-
sible for the help to reach it. If
feel an inner urge to study with us, and
if you find that the lessons help ÿou, you
will naturally desire to make it possible
for other Souls to receive the same.
Therefore, out of pure love and a desire
to help others you will give as much as
you can afford. Let all give according
to their ability.
A simple announcement of your de-
sire to study with us and a realiation of
your obligation to help us in return is
all that is necessary. The help we asic
is just what your conscience tells you is
the right and proper thing to do in ac-
cordance with your worldly meant. In
short, it must be looked upon as a privi-
lege to co-operate in this great work.
All contributions, both large and
small, will be gratefully received and
126 AppendixPars I
promptly acknowledged. No matter what
amount is given, the real offering is the
loving desire to help. "Let every man do
according as he is disposed in his heart,
not grudgingly, or of necessity, for God
loveth a cheerful giver."
You will greatly facilitate our work if
before asking questions in regard to it
you will carefully study this pamphlet to
see if the information you desire is not
contained therein.
Our correspondence is so large that we
cannot answer letters inunediately, but
will always endeavor to do so as soon as
possible after their receipt.
For lessons of the 0. C. M. address
F. HOMER CURTISS, M. D.
3510 Quebec St., N. W.
Washington, D. C.
APPENDIX
PART II
The object of study classes.
- As wu have said elsewhere, "The oh..
ject of all religions is worship of the
Divine. And the primary object of all
worship is personal contact with and real-
ization of the Divine. But as there is a
method or mechanism by which the whole
manifested universe comes into physical
expression, so is there a method or
mechanism by which conscious contact is
made between the human personality and
those higher expressions of God toward
which the heart aspires." Therefore, the
primary object of the Teachings of this
Order is not mere intellectual infornia-
tion, but conscious contact with the
Divine and the development of intuition
and inner spiritual guidance. These are
heart qualities and powers which require
127
128 AppendixPart II
spiritual and devotional exercises for
their development. Hence the devotional
exercises with which the meetings should
be opened and closed are more important
than the intellectual discussion. For
while a clear understanding of our cosmic
philosophy will enlighten the mind, ex-
pand the consciousness, and give a greater
understanding of life, only prayer, as-
piration, and devotion will unfold and
manifest our spiritual nature, the great
object for which we incarnated here on
Earth.
How to form a study class.
In the study of mysticism and occult-
isni, in addition to the careful reading
and meditation upon the ideals presented,
it is helpful to have a number who are
interested in the same teachings organize
a class and study together. The union
of the auras of a number of harmonized
students who are sincerely aspiring for a
greater realization of light, life, and love
creates a vortex of spiritual force into
which the return currents of enlighten-
AppendixPart II 129
ment on the subject studied and of life
and love are naturally drawn.
Arrange to meet regularly at some con-
venient place such as a member's home,
in the evening if possible, as this permits
both men and women to attend, and
choose one of your members to read the
lesson. Select a few pages of the book
a week in advance of the meeting, and
have each member carefully study and
meditate upon them during the week,
making notes of the ideas that seem most
important
Begin promptly at the hour designated.
Open the meeting with the hymns in-
dicated, followed by a period of Silence
in which you still your mind, turn the
current of your thoughts from the affairs
of daily life, and concentrate them upon
the Prayer for Light or some har-
monizing topic announced beforehand
such as harmony, peace, light, love, en-
derstanding, etc.
After the class has been harmonized by
the hymns and blessed by the prayer and
meditation, have the leader read a few
130 AppendixPar: II
lines from the lesson selected and all who
feel so prompted comment thereon, espe-
daily givmg the new ideas that may have
come to them during their study. Invite
interruptions and discussion. Any ques-
tions which cannot be answered by the
discussion may be referred to some mem-
ber or members to look up in the index
of "The Curtiss Books" and report at the
next meeting. If not settled thus, the
questions should be referred to the
Superintendent of Local Centers, who
will submit them to the Teacher and ex-
planations will be returned as soon as
possible.
Keep a kindly but firm rein over all
discussions, allowing plenty of latitude, so
long as it does not stray too far away
from the subject. Studiously avoid argu-
snents. One should state one's interpre-
tation of the passage under discussion
and let it rest there.
Especially do not bring hi the teach-
ings of other schools or authors, no mat-
ter how excellent they may be. To do so
would bring in thought currents from
AppendixPart II 131
other sources than this Order's and so
tend to cause confusion and argument.
The class meets primarily to find out
what this Order teaches, hence the time
should be given exclusively to its teach-
ings. It will be excellent training in
clear thinking to formulate your opinion
as definitely as possible. Do not try to
convince others or impose your 'views
upon them. Simply state your views and
grant to others the same freedom of
thought and expression which you desire
for yourself.
Above all be cheerful and good-
natured and let peace, harmony and love
abound, for without these conditions the
study will degenerate into mere intel-
lectual discussions and the Voice of In-
tuition which you are seeking to culti-
vate will be drowned out.
In this way the meetings become in-
tensely interesting, intellectually stimulat-
ing and enlightening, and spiritually
helpful, for the different viewpoints
brought out serve to make clear phases
of the subject not always expressed in
132 AppendixPart II
the printed lesson. Thus discussed, one
lesson will often extend over two or three
meetings.
Strive ever to bring out the heart or
Christ-conception in all your discussions
of the lesson, not permitting the in-
tellectual to predominate. Seek for the
loving help that is contained in each les-
son and always conclude by pointing it
out plainly so that all can see and carry
it home with them.
Let all the students strive continually
to spread the Teachings wherever and
whenever Wisdom inspires you, but do
not seek to force them upon anyone. In-
vite your friends to the meetings, those
you are led to talk to and who become in-
terested, but do not be anxious about
their coining, leaving all free to follow
the leadings of their own hearts.
Send in monthly or quarterly reports
of the progress of your meetings and of
different members, always encouraging,
however, personal correspondence direct
with the Order when a student is con-
fronted with a vital Soul problem.
AppendixPort II 133
If a name is chosen for the dass, re-
member that names have occult powers
and the class will have to demonstrate
that it can live up to the name chosen.
After the class has been working har-
moniously for some time, if it is de-
sired to expand into a Local Center of
the Order to carry on a more organized
line of work, write for further informa-
tion.
ORDER OF SERVICE
Hymn. Selected.
Hymn of Consecration.
(Music, Unity Hymn 46)
Prayer for Light, with Meditation,
and Visualization.
Study and Discussion of Lesson
Prayer for World Harmony.
Prayer for Demonstration.
Healing Song.
Healing Prayer.
Mention of the Heart Center and
the Founders, also the names of
individuals whom you wish helped.
Closing Verse.
APPENDIX
PART III
Prayer. of The Order of Chrlitlan
My!tIca.1
Pnyra TR LIGHT
0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart
The Flame of Divine Love and Wis-
dom,
That I may dwell forever in the radi-
ance of Thy countenance
And rest in the Light of Thy smile!
PRAYER ma Woiui HARMONY
Glory and honor and worship be unto
Thee, 0 Lord Christ,
Thou who art the Life and Light of all
mankind.
Thou art the King of Glory to whom
all the peoples of the Earth should
give joyful allegiance and service.
I For others see Prayers of the 0. C. M..
Curtiss.
134
AppendixPart III 135
Inspire mankind with a realization of
true Brotherhood.
Teach us the wisdom of peace, har-
mony and co-operation.
Breathe into our hearts the understand-
ing that only as we see ourselves as
parts of the one body of humanity
can peace, harmony, success and
plenty descend upon us.
Help us to conquer all manifestations
of inharmony and evil in ourselves
and in the world.
May' all persons and classes and nations
cease their conflicts, and unselfishly
strive for peace and good-will.
Bless us all with the radiance of Thy
Divine Love and
Wisdom that we may ever worship
Thee in the beauty of holiness.
In the Name of the Living Christ we
ask it. Amen.
PaAvna op DauoNsnt&1IoN
I am a child of the Living God!
I have within me the all-creating power
of the Christ!
136 AppendixPart III
It radiates from me and blesses all I
contact.
It is my Health, my Strength, my
Courage,
My Patience, my Peace, my Poise,
My Power, my Wisdom, my Under-
standing,
My Joy, my Inspiration, and my
Abundant Supply.
Unto this great Power I entrust all my
problems,
Knowing they will be solved in Love
and Justice.
(Mention all problems connected with
your worldly affairs, visualize each
and conclude with the following
words)
O Lord Christ! I have laid upon Thy
altar all my wants and desires.
I know Thy Love, Thy Wisdom, Thy
Power and Thy Graciousness.
In Thee I peacefully rest, knowing that
all is well.
For Thy will is my will. Amen.
AppendixPart III 137
HnALING PRAYER
0 thou loving and helpful Master
Jesus!
Thou who gayest to Thy disciples
power to heal the sick!
We, recognizing Thee, and realizing
Thy divine Presence with us,
Ask Thee to lay Thy hands (powers)
upon us in healing Love.
Cleanse US from all OUR sins, and by
the divine power of Omnipotent Life,
Drive out the atoms of inharmony and
disease, and
Fill our bodies full to overflowing with
Life and Love and Purity.
HYMN OF CONSEcRATIONMUSIC
Within each heart a sacred Flame,
The Christ Star's steady blaze;
Help us Thy children, gracious Lord,
On it to fix our gaze.
A holy sanctuary there
Far from the world's mad din.
Grant us Thy power, 0 blessed Christ,
To boldly enter in.
138 AppendixPort III.
Upon Thy altar lay our hearts,
Thy covenant is sealed.
We see Thy face, we touch Thy robe,
And lot our hearts are healed.
Grant us Thy grace to carry hence
To all the world this Love,
To help to lead Thy children, Lord,
Into Thy courts above.
Harriette Augusta Curtiss.
HEALING SONGMUSIC
Blessed Savior, assist us
To rest on Thy word.
Let Thy soul-healing Power
On us now be outpoured.
Wash away every sin-spot;
Take perfect control;
Say to each trusting spirit,
"Thy faith makes thee whole."
Chorus
Wilt thou be made whole?
Wilt thou be made whole?
Oh, come weary suff'rer,
Oh, come sin-sick soul I
AppendixPart III 139
See, the life-stream is flowing!
See, the cleansing waves roll I
Step into the current
And thou shalt be whole. Amen.
HEALING Vsz
Watch by the sick,
Enrich the poor
With blessings from
Thy boundless store.
Be every mourner's sleep tonight
Like infants' slumber pure and bright.
Amen.
LITERATURE
By Dr. and Mrs. F. Homer Curtiss.
Price
"THE VOICE OF ISIS"
A text book of the spirit-
ual life $2.50 or 15/
"THE MESSAGE OF
AQUARIA" - Advanced
information regarding the
present unrest in world
conditions, and its solution $2.50 or 15/
"REALMS OF THE LIV-
ING DEAD"Authorita
tive information on the
life after death and
methods of contact with
those who have "passed
on" $2.50 or 15/
"THE TRUTH ABOUT
EVOLUTION AND
THE BIBLE"A new
140
The Mystic Life 141
and illuminating concept
of evolution. A rational
basis for reconciliation .. $2.50 or 15/-
"THE KEY TO THE
UNIVERSE"The most
comprehensive and au-
thoritative book on the
significance and spiritual
interpretation of numbers
and symbols. Numbers 1
to 10 $2.50 or 15/-
"THE KEY OF DES-
TINY"A continuation
of the study of numbers
and symbols. Numbers
11 to 22 $2.SOorlS/-.
"LETTERS FROM THE
TEACHER"These let-
ters from the Teacher of
the Order of Christian
Mystics, in answer to
questions from earnest
students, will solve many
of your own difficulties.
Vols. I and 2 each $2.00 or 12-
142 The Mystic Life
"COMING WORLD
CHANGES" - A sum-
mary of many recent
prophecies. Presents a
definite remedy for short-
ening "the days of tribula-
tion" si.io or 6/6
"GEMS OF MYSTICISM"
Excerpts from the text-
books. A fine introduction
to the philosophy of the
Order Art paper SOc or 2/6
"THE TEMPLE OF SI-
LENCE"The most in-
spiring treatise on medita-
tion and entering the Si-
lence Art paper SOc or 2/6
"THE DIVINE MOTHER"
The latest and most
beautiful gem of this
series Art paper SOc or 2/6
"T H E SOUNDLESS
SOUND"A prose poem
of devotion and medita-
tion Art paper SOc or 2/6
The Mystic Life 143
"THE SEVENTH SEAL"
(by Jeannette Agnes)
(In harmony with the
teachings of the O.C.M.).
A convincing interpreta-
tion of the doctrine of
complementary mates $1.25 or 7/6
"PRAYERS OF THE OR-
DER OF CHRISTIAN
MYSTICS" SOc or 2/6
"THE LOVE OF RABI-
ACCA"An Occult Trag-
edy in Five Acts SOc or 2/6
NoTE: Owing to fluctuation of ex-
change the English and Australian prices
may vary from time to time.
Angels, Arch, 14,
32; Hymn about,
33
Anger, 44
Appendix, 101, 127,
134
Asceticism, 40
Authority, the
only, 108
Avatar, The, 73,
81, 113, 120
Baptist, John the,
62
Bee, 28
Blood, mystic, 80-4
Body, training of,
39, 40-i
Bread, Living, 80
Bridegroom, 87-9
Brotherhood, true,
107
INDEX
Christ-conscious-
ness, 19, 60, 79
Christ, center, 75;
story, 54-5; his-
toric, 68, 70;
Mystic, 66, 73-
8,85
Control, of self, 60
Co-operation, the
Law, 24-S
Correlate, choose
to, 13, 14
Criticize, 65;
never, 110
Cymbals, 85
Desires, natural,
39
Discipleship, path
of, 34, 49
Discipline, needed,
40-1, 93
145
146 Index
Diver, simile of, 38
Evil, resist not, 45
Evolution begins,
10
Express, now, 6, 7
Face of the Si-
lence, 18
Faith, of woman,
89
Feet, dancing, 85
Flesh, mystical,
80-1
Flowers, don't say
it with, 7
Gland, pineal, 75
Guidance, 41
Happiness, 5, 7, 8,
50
Heart, center, 75;
doctrine, 14
Heathen, the only,
18
Help, super-hu-
man, 48
Ideal, highest
worthy, 3
Illumination, 52
Indweller, Prayer
to, 46
Inspiration, 74
Intellect, 60-1
Intuition, 67, 94
Jesus, Avatar, 73,
81; flesh of, 80
Krishna, Raina, 17
Life, family, 3; in
higher realms, 4;
mental, 3; outer,
public, 3;
psychic, 3; real
or Souls, 4; to
live, 7
Lives, our many, 3
Love, Cosmic, Di-
vine, 20
Meditation, daily,
65, 94-7
Mist, mental, 2
Mortals, as ave-
nues, 13; man
not a, 37, 43
Mystery, alt life
a, 1
Mystic, not a
dreamer, 2
Nationalism, 22
Necessity, Cycle
of, 11
Noon, prayer serv-
ice, 97
NRA,, 25
Order, a cosmic,
102; object of,
116-7
Paul, doctrine of,
70-2-6
Index 147
Pineal, gland, 75
Plexus, solar, 75
Prayer, noon, 97;
of the Order,
134
Production, mass,
26
Reaction, causes
suffering, 43
Realization, 95
Recapitulation, 64
Recommendations,
93
Religion, a path,
16-7
Resurrection, 32-3
Robe, touched, 89
Sacrifice, Law of,
8,9
Sadhana, 18
Satisfaction, 4, 5,
6
Service, order of,
133
148
Sheep, other, 19
Silence, entering,
96
Solar plexus, 75
Study-class, 127-8
Suffering, causes
of, 43
Sun, function of,
74; Spiritual, 15,
81
Index
Surrender, com-
plete, 13
Teachings, Inner,
59
Training, West-
em, 40
TIlL UMVMSAL RLIOIOUs
FELWWS1IIP. INC.
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for
the promulgation of a Cosmic and all-
indusive spiritual philosophy which gives
a satisfactory and scientific explanation
of every phase and condition of life both
here and hereafter. Christian in ethics,
yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal corre-
spondence on all vital problems sent on
the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Order presented
in this volume have interested and helped
you, send for free Descriptive Pamphlet.
F. HOMER CIJRTISS, 13S.,
WaabInton, D.C.
3O ConncctJ Ave.
Irtshfç,to & D. C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Chris-
tian Psychology and Mysticism in plain, under-
standable terms and applied to the daily life.
Not mere theory and metaphysical speculation,
but a definite and comprehensible philosophy of
life and Soul-growth, tested through years of
experience, which includes a rational explana-
tion of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Oc-
cultism, as well as the vital and complex prob-
lems of modem life and all after-death condi-
tions.
There are perhaps no books on the market
to-day which so fulfill the needs of the awak-
ened Soul who is seeking to know and under-
stand how to apply the universal laws of the
spiritual life under present and coming world
conditions. While philosophical and comprehen-
sive in thefr scope, they also answer the heart-
cry for love, light and life.
Just the books to jlace in the hands of a
friend who is outgrowing former limitations of
thought and old conceptions. Christian in their
ethics, yet non-sectarian cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
*IQ-Q,ub.i flt NWs, Washington, D. C.
5130 ConnectIcut Av..
V4nshlnton 8. D.C.
TEXT-BOOKS OF THE 0. C. M.
Br DL AND Mis. F. Iloxia Cwxss
THE VOICE OF ISIS
A Text-book of The Order of Chvistsa,s Mystics. A veri-
table compendium of spiritual yhilosophy, occultism and
esoteric Biblical interpretation. Not mere theory and meta-
physical speculation, but a definite philosophy of life and Seal.
growth tested through more than twenty-five years of practical
application.
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through
its common-sense way of treating subjects (sex, psychism, etc)
on which occultists sometimes go wild, but I have most invari-
ably heard the same expression of opinion from others who
have read it."Editor, 0. B. Library Critic.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, directness and convinc-
big force, Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret
Wisdom.... Invaluable both as Teacher and Guide to the
Sacred Way of Truth and Illumination.Aaoth Magazine.
Twelfth Edition.-433 f'age& Indexed. Price, $2.50.
THE MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Answers the heart-cry of many in all lands for a reasonable
and scientific explanation of how and when and to whom the
Son of Man shall appear hi this Aquarian Age, as already out-
lined in The Voice of Isis, and how all advanced students may
join together in a non-sectarian Super-Brotherhood of Free
Spirits to prepare for and recognize Kim when lie comes.
Reveals more details of this great mystery than can be
found In any other work, all corroborated by "The Secret
Doctrine" of ii. P B.
Not a sequel to The Voice of Ins, but rather a response to
the urgent call for further and more advanced instruction con-
cerning the great unrest in world conditions, and an exposition
of the significance of the new Aquarian or Woman's Age and
its mission to distracted and war-weary humanity.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted Internationally for the pro-
found scholarship with which they have studied the problems
of ancient and modern mysticism. .. Through all runs the
steady note of honest counsel, of deep eonvictions."Nationd
Pictorial MonSWy.
FfSk Edition. !nZèseL Price, $2.50.
151
REALMS OF THE LIVING DEAD
Explains all problems and answers all questions as to ex.
istence after so-called death. Gives all methods of conimuni.
cation. Dearest and most authoritative. Constructive help.
ful' comforting, with diagrams of the invisible worlds and
their various realms.
"it is particularly desirable that in these times of death and
sorrow poople shorJd be familiar with conditions of lûje on the
other side of the veil. In the chapter on The 4wakenuig
there is much that will be of value and interest to soldiers aad
their friends."Toronto Sunday World.
Sieth Edition. Four extra chapters. Indexed. Price, 2.50.
THE KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
The most comprehensive and authoritative book on the sig-
nificance and spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols.
Not a dry mathematical treatise nor mere speculative theories,
Illustrations and confirmations from nature at every turn.
"In every chapter the authors display a scholarly under.
standing of their subject, and their treatment is both thorough
and profound."Baltimove 4merica*.
SirS Is Edition. Illustrated. Indexed. Price, $2.50.
THE KEY OF DESTINY
Sequel to and continuation of the spiritual Interpretation of
Numbers and S_ymbols, the Tarot Cards and the Hebrew Let.
ters begun in The Key to the Universe. Interprets the num.
hers, cards and letters from 11 to 22, also many higher
numbers of great interest and vital importance, such as the
Number of the Circle, and the geometrical law of proportion
on which the universe is built. Gives for the first time the
philosophical and geometrical reason why there are 12 signs
of the zodiac 12 apostles, 12 tribes of Israel, 12 months in
the year, 12 Lours in the day and night, and not 10 or some
other number. Th0 wonderful 12 Lebors of Hercules inter.
preted for the first time in all the ages and applied to the
spiritual life of the Seeker.
"Copious quotations are presented . . . but always appro-
priately and in a manner to enrich the scope of the text....
4 very good clearly dejued iisterpretatsos."Sprusgflelj Re-
publican.
Fourth Edition. Inde.red. lilsutrateL Price, $2.50.
152
LETTERS FROM THE TEACHER
Practical questions from earnest students on all manner of
subjects pertaining to the higher life, occultism, etc., an-
swered by the Teacher of the 0. C. M.
"Among the many occult volumes before the public. . . I
know of none more useful and admirable?'Occait Revitw,
London.
"Bear every mark of culture, of sinoerity, and of a lofty
thought."Saie Francisco Argonaut.
"Pervaded with the spirit of loving service."American
Theosophut.
Vofr. I aud II. Fail Index. Price sack, $2.00.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational summary of th many ecent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value such phecies. and the scien-
tific and philosophic princi. - und.' ying such cyclic changes
in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, . ess and ear-producing volume, but
presenting the underlyi priuci es of the changes, and a
definite remedy for sho. cuing e days of tribulation."
Chap. LProphecie
Chap. ILGeolo - Cons!. tions, the scientific aspect.
Chap. IlLThe 'ilosoph of Planetary Changes.
Chap. IV.The in of t. World.
Chap. V.The elation o America to world conditions.
Chap. VLP ic f ... in the World War, etc.
Chap. VII. e Rem- y based on scientific psychological
principles.
Third Edition. 4rt Boards. Price, $1.10 ostaid.
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and the BIBLE
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of
Eden story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by
both sides of the controversy and a rational basic for the ccc-
oscillation of religion and science; of the Fundamentalists
and the Liberals.
Profound, yet clear and shnply expressed. Scientifically
accurate, yet not tiresomely statistical or unduly technical.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrills
the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to umintain his stand
in any company. Answers all questions. Covers all phases,
both Biblical and scientific. Indexed, $2.50.
153
THE GEMS SERIES
A series of beautiful, bound handy pocket-sized booklets, so
inexpensive that a iuimber con be kept on hand and use( for
gifts at any time of year. The leather bound copies are iilcal
for Christmas or other presents.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and
Mrs. Curtias. Gives beat simple insight into Mysticism.
L Spiritual Growth. IL Duty. IlL Karma. IV. Rein.
carnation. V. The Christ. VI. Masters of Wisdom. VII.
Miscellaneous.
"One might wade through the religious philoso1ihizzngs of
every people and place and not receive the inspiration one
will et out of a ten-minute perusal of this beautiful little
book. Raltimore Ame,*an.
"Occult and spiritual. . .. Of uncommon interest."
Portland Oregonian.
Fifth Edition. Paper, bc; Leather, $1.00.
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Book of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a
bock full of loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as
a song-sparrow as quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an
odor-laden zephyr with song, refreshment and delight."
George Wharton lames, Editor "Oat West."
"The transcribers are clearly in touch with some fertile
source of spiritual enlightenment As a dainty gift book, it
is1 ,beau u.bound in green silk cloth, stamped -in
Pearl!. Art Edition. Paper, SOc; LeaSher, $1.00,
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The mystery and beauty of the Silence described, together
with practical directions as to bow to correlate with It. How
to Knock at the Door. Wireless messages from within. Means
and effect of a mantram. Difference between concentration,
meditation, prayer and entering the Silence. Exercises to
practice. Dangers to avoid. The Healing Prayer.
Third Edition. 4r1 PaJ'er, SOc; Leather, $1.00.
154
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The loveliest and most heart-comforting Gem of the series.
The meaning of the Divine Mother. How to bring forth the
Divine Ideal within each heart. The mystic Waters of Life.
The meaning and mission of the Comforter, the Ifoly Ghost.
The Elixir of Life.
Third Edition. Art Paper, bc; Leather, $1.00.
THE SEVE TH SEAL
By Jw,mz Aciras (A dent of the 0. C. If.)
Creation among the lower f. M
aspects of the Soul. Action f Spirit
must be allowed the initiativ Sex not
flesh; not an end in Itself. . rol of a
"The conung of the Kingd. of If ea
through the spiritually dcv 'ped individ al."
"The best exposition o the doctri, of complementary
Spiritual Mates, and that e sex rela is far more than
mere animal pro-crcati'. Ample B .lical quotations are
given in confirmation. S iritualizes tb. whole subject of sex.
In harmony with the T kings cli 0. C. M. and The
Curtis: Books." Dr. C Lu.
"You have put the tire matter a h1h and spiritual
plane, and no reader -. miss your caning.' Rev. I. He,.
mali Randall, New Y. k City.
TO
By
Founder of The
man. The Seven
The fate and
verse.
"A noble mes
Gasette.
"The story
There is a
LiGht.
hHer Majes
her pleasure i
King Oscar
Mr. Stanf
libraries of
German ed,
edition.
To the
fifteen per:
P e $1.00 pa
RDS TH
xciii Mas
kite Cross U
mesS: -
ption of' a a
ge from the
told in dra
in of circu
ne and feminine
matter. Woman
weakness of the
ites and desires.
on earth must be
paid.
LIGHT
KALWJÅ
ion. Author of King Solo.
icide told in inspiring blank
reat Beyond." Pall Mall
tic and moving language.
powerfully described."
dra has graciously intimated
tation copy." Light.
aloud at a reception in 1901.
resented 500 copies to the free
Danish. Dutch. Finnish and
in addition to the English
Queen Al
accepting a p
f Sweden read it
of California
strahia. Swed
have a
s knowled
fran, suicide
Paper. Price, $.50 postpaid.
155
skic poem hag saved at least
The 19th Volume of «The Curtiss Boo
HEALTH HINTS(f-
This is not a large, elaborate volume fihle&with dry sta-
tistics and long-winded discussions and theories about health,
but a vitally interesting and practical summary of our teach-
ings on the importance of health of body, mind and spirit,
and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical ex-
perience, together with our highest mystical teachings as to
the health of the inner as well as the outer man. It therefore
deals with the effect upon your health, of the thoughts, emo-
tions and psychic influences to which you respond, as well as
the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical
teaching on bathing, breathing, exercise, thought-control, and
physical, mental, psychic, prayer, faith and spiritual healing.
All boiled down into twelve chapters packed with definite laws
rules and directions. All expressed in simple, non'tecbnicaf
language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most chronic dis-
orders, as well as explicit instructions as to jast what to do
in acute attacks. This may save the life of your child, your-
self or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive courses
on each subject. Just what you have long been waiting for.
Study carefully the tie of contents and see if you can afford
to be without it, Price $1.50 postpaid,
TAIILE OF CONTENTS
1strodig ction. The body an instrument. What is health?
Uses of pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases,
how attained. Restoration to health.
Chapter I. Meclsa,iical Facto,: in Health,
Structural defects. Spinal adtustmenb, NWi of exercise,
Use of water sunt air baths. Nudism.
Chapter IL Breatking
Science of breath. Occult uses of breath. The Calming
Breath. The Cleansing Breath. Prana and its control. The
Vitalizing Breath. The Transmuting Breath. The Spiritual-
izing Breath. Prayer for reahzation,
Chapter IlL Constipation.
Reasons for. Putrifaction. Halitosis, Bulk needed,
Fluids needed, Laxative foods. Enemas, Purgative,. The
high colonic. Frequency. Outgrowing use of, Fasting,
Effect on sex,
Chapter IV. Acnte Disorder:.
What to do first, second, third. Source of colds, Sinus
156
troubles. Hot or cold packs. Infantile paralysis. Appen-
dicitis cured in two hours. Treatment when ruptured. Op.
erations unnecessary. Loss of tonsils or appendix handicaps.
Flu. Abscesses. Pneumonia, etc.
Chapter V. Food in GeneraL
Intemperance in food or drink. Cravings and aversions.
Food classes. Food for spiritual seekers. Chemical classes
of foods. Proteins. Catarrh. Passions stimulated by certain
foods. Effects on periodic functions. Mistakes of puberty.
Undesirable foods. Appetite, how to restore. Limit,n food.
Fasting. Source of the life-force. Over.eating. Satisfying
hunger, thirst. Enjoying food. Effect of hurry, of argu-
Inents. Meat.eating. Effects on spiritual unfoldment. Foods
for babies. Teeth. Sugar. Chew Chew Club. Milk. Goat's
milk. Salt.
Chapter VI. Coaij'atibthty of Foods.
Role of heredity. Early break.down. Incompatibihties.
Role of Ptyalin. Acidosis. Alkalinity. Soda. Proteins.
Rules for combinations. Results of experience, of chemical
analysis.
Chapter VIL Cooknig.
Best methods. Patapar paper. Raw foods. Saving vita-
mins and mineral salts.
Chapter VIIL Various SugesSions.
Treatment of the eyes. Palming. Blinking. Discardin
glasses. Boric acid. Sleep. Insomnia. Prayers. Alcoho
Tobacco. Vaccination. Serums. Surgery. Tonsils. Specialists,
etc.
Chapter IX. Mental Influences.
Origin of thought. Emotions. Mental health. Role of
mind. Subconscious Mind. Mental laws. Suggestion. Body
responds. Repercussion. Rebuilding. Regl.c.4tion. Mental
attitude.
Chapter X. Emotions.
Constructive emotion. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer.
aspiration. Negative emotions. Effect of fear, anger jeal-
ousy, envy, resentment. Fear of disease, of old age. Laugh.
tar, Controversies. Your reactions. Recreation. Overwork.
Periodic depression. Optimism. Smile.
Chapter XL Sf'iritual Influences.
Psychic induction. Psycbic.healing. Invisible helpers.
flealing Prayer. Faith healing. Realization. The "Quiet
time." A changed life. Your reaction. How to control.
Chapter XIL Menus and Statistics.
Examples of how to choose, properly combine, cook and
serve foods.
Order direct from the publishers. Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
35WQ&-9t- N.-W.. Washington, D. C.
157
The following are three new volumes of this series:
PRAYERS OF THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN
MYSTICS
A collection of inspired and Inspiring prayers for afl oc.
casions and for every need and mood. Published In bandy
form for the pocket or the hand4iag, and accessible at all
times. By its regular use all may experience the manifold
blessings and Joys, the protection and comfort of the spiritual
forces which these mystical prayers invoke.
Art Paper, bc; Leather, $1.00.
TIlE MYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a clear exposition of Its
meaning, its scope and its importance in the daily life. Con-
tains chapters on "How Mysticism Solves the World's Prob-
lems. The Path of DiscIpleship Illumination. The Mjstic
Qirist. Recommendations for Daily Living, flow to lorm
a Study-group, etc."
Art Paper, be; Leather, $1.00.
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Tascan xx Fran Acre
A thrilling tale of a pre-historic race, recovered psychicafly
by the authors.
Acr I. The Battlements.
Aci II. The Mountain Side.
Acv IlL The Crypt in the Temple.
Acr IV. The Love Philter.
Acv V. Scene i. The Rite of Nalced Sword.
Scene ii. The Flaming Pyre and the Prophecy.
Art Paper, 50c; Leather, $1.00.
CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
5IO Qucbcc NW Washington, D. C
5J Ocnnectu Av..
158 WahIngt, 8. D. c.
