{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__anonymous___physical_theory_of_another_life.pdf","mytitle":"Physical Theory Of Another Life","mylang":"de"}
PHYSICAL THEORY OF
ANOTHER LIFE
3 i t
B Y T H E A U T H O R OF
N A T U R A L H IS T O R Y OF E N T H U S IA S M
AX
'"
‘ / - ! ' / V"
' - ( • -
V ~ ^ ^
______
/
-- ^
rjim/a 101 ek toyton thn te aitian eqiaeizein kai
LONDON
W I L L I A M P I C K E R I N G
1836
¿
f
Digitized by b o o g i e
Digitized by Vj O O Q I C
PREFACE.
. D uring the years that have elapsed since the
Author projected his literary course, a great
change has taken place in the relative position
and the reciprocal feelings of the religious
parties that divide the country. Eight or ten
years ago, and even later, many auspicious
indications of peace and union met the eye 5
and an enterprise might seem hopeful which
had for its object the removal of obsolete causes
of disagreement. It then seemed as if, at last,
ancient misconceptions might safely and suc­
cessfully be dealt with.
Jiut an unlooked for course of events has
dissipated, for the present, these happy presages,
and has given a vehement excitement to senti­
ments which the lovers of peace had fondly
believed were fast disappearing ; so that it would
now be idle to hope for a dispassionate hearing
upon subjects that touch the differences between
party and party.
b
Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
IV PREFACE.
In its bearing upon his own literary projects
and engagements, the Author has felt, every
day with fresh force, that the revolution of
public feeling to which he has alluded must
render the prosecution of the plan he had
devised, and which he has announced, and in
part executed, peculiarly difficult, if not imprac­
ticable ; as well as hopeless of a beneficial issue.
The subjects included in his plan have become
the very themes of eager contention; nor could
he believe that, while satisfying his own con­
victions of truth, he should be able to avoid
the taking a side, and the ranging— or the being
ranged, with one body of Christians, against
others. In fact he has found himself nearing the
abyss of strife; and he steps back in haste.
The present state of ecclesiastical excitement
will however, no doubt, in a few years, subside,
and a calmer season once again smile upon the
Christian commonwealth. Should he live to see
the happy days of tranquillity and good will,
the Author would gladly resume the difficult,
and as he believes, important subjects, which
at present he lays down. He now returns to
the favourite and peaceful themes of his earlier
meditations and studies; and is most happy to
find himself in a region not exposed to storms.
Digitized by Googl<
PREFACE. V
There are two perfectly distinct modes in
which the influence of the highest truths may be
increased: the one is to remove, so far as it
may be done, the prejudices and perversions
that have been amassed around them. The
other method is, forgetting any incidental causes
of obstruction, to hold forth, in its native bright­
ness, the substance of those truths. The Author,
in his desire— he believes a sincere desire, to
promote, to the utmost of his power, these
inestimable principles, at first attempted to ac­
complish his object in the former method; he
. now attempts it in the second.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Digitized by Vj O O Q I C
C O N T E N T S .
Chapter I.
Preliminary Cautions, and Statement of the Subject
F
A
O
R
1
Chapter II.
The Conditions of. Corporeity, whether animal or spi­
ritual .........................................................................21
Chapter III.
The probable Prerogatives of Spiritual Corporeity*
,as.compared with Animal Organization the first
of those P rero g a tiv e s...........................................42
Chapter IV.
The second and third supposed Prerogatives of the
Spiritual E conom y..........................................* . 5f>
Chapter V.
The fourth of these Advantages , . . . , 66
Chapter VI.
The fifth and sixth hypothetical Prerogatives of the
Spiritual Body . . . . . . 7 7
Chapter VII.
The seventh probable Advantage of the Future Life . 91
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
vin CONTENTS.
Chapter VIII.
page
The eighth Prerogative, according to our Hypothesis, of
Spiritual Corporeity............................................ 1 0 0
Chapter IX.
The ninth Point of Advantage belonging to the contrast
between Animal Organization and Spiritual Life . 114
Chapter X.
The balanced probability of Happiness or Misery,
involved in the Physical Theory of another Life, 123
Chapter XI.
Probable point of contrast between the Animal and
Spiritual Body, in the principle of their construc­
tion, respectively . . • . . . 143
Chapter XII.
The Transition of Human Nature from Animal to
Spiritual Corporeity, a natural, not a miraculous
e v e n t ............................................................... . 152
Chapter XIII.
The Survivance of Individual Character, and of the
Moral C o n scio u sn e ss..........................................169
Chapter XIV.
Correspondence between the Present and the Future
Employment of the Active Principles of Human
N a tu re..........................................................................181
Chapter XV.
Introductory to some Conjectures concerning the Cor­
relative Construction, and Reciprocal Destinies of
the Material and Spiritual Universe . , . . 1 9 3
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
CONTENTS. IX
Chapter XVI.
The first Conjecture concerning the Material Universe,
viewed as the theatre of an Intellectual System .
Chapter XVII.
The second Conjecture .....................................................
Chapter XVIII.
The third C o n jec tu re.....................................................
Chapter XIX.
The general ground of Conjectural Reasoning concern­
ing what is unseen or future . . . .
Chapter XX.
On the Advancement of Pneumatology
P
A
O
B
208
222
266
282
304
Digitized by G o o g l e
ERROR.
Page127,line4,omitdaily.
Digitized by Vj O O Q L C
PHYSICAL THEORY,
$*C. Q
fC,
C H A P T E R I.
PRELIMINARY CAUTIONS, AND STATEMENT OF
THE SUBJECT.
T he knowledge of a future life we may easily
imagine to have been conveyed to us through
some other channel than that of the Christian
writings. In that case we should have felt no
fear of culpable presumption while using any
means of farther information, concerning the
destiny of the human family, which might have
come within our reach; and if the mode of
our obtaining this knowledge had been natural
and ordinary, we should, without scruple, have
prosecuted our inquiries in the spirit, and with
the freedom, that belong to other physical re­
searches.
In truth, if the human family is to live anew,
the future stage of its existence offers itself to
B
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
2 PHYSICAL THEORY
our curiosity as a proper branch of the physi­
ology of the species; and it only remains to be
asked, whether we are in possession of any suffi­
cient materials for prosecuting the subject:—
if we are, then the circumstance that our expec­
tation of immortality forms a part of our belief
as Christians, and rests under the sanction of
divine authority, need not bar our researches,
or prevent our doing what otherwise we should
certainly attempt, if it appeared that a careful
analysis of human nature might actually enable
us to conceive rationally of the functions and pre­
rogatives of our approaching mode of existence.
What is to be guarded against, as well in
respect to the sanctity of religion, as in deference
to the principles of good sense and sound philo­
sophy, is, in the first place, the indulgence of
the imagination; for it is not from that quarter
we can expect any aid; and in the second place,
the supposition that any hypothesis, formed on
a subject of this kind, how plausible soever it
may seem, is, or can be, more than a rational
conjecture; or that it can rightfully have any
force in disturbing our religious convictions.
On the path we are about to pursue, no practical
evil will arise so long as we carefully abstain
from the error of confounding the deductions of
reason with the testimony of the inspired writers,
nor ever allow any part of the authority or the
serious and sacred import that attach to the
latter, to be extended to the former. A t the
impulse of a “ fleshly mind” to intrude into
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 8
“ things not seen,” is a grave fault, and espe­
cially so if, on the strength of even the most
reasonable theory, we are led to bring into
question a particle of that which the text of
scripture, duly interpreted, requires us to
believe.
Yet there is a path (as the author thinks)
which runs clear of both the errors above men­
tioned, and in following it, as we propose to
do, we shall at once discard the gay dreams of
the fancy, fraught with the images of earth, and
hold every thing light which countervails, or
which will not readily consist with, the sure words
of Christ and his apostles. Our conjectures are
conjectures merely; or even if in any instance they
might challenge a higher value, or whatever may
be their solidity, they are, at the best, matters of
science, not of piety; nor is our faith in any
way obliged by them; nor can our Christianity
be. implicated in the remotest manner in the
establishment, or in the refutation of any such
speculations. Let them be confirmed, or let
them be confuted, still, as expectants of that
“ life and immortality” which is brought to light
by the gospel, we look on with no solicitude
while reason attempts the arduous path that is
open to her efforts.
It is very true that Christianity has suffered
damage by vain and presumptuous intrusions
into its mysteries; but it may also be injured,
and perhaps in a more fatal, although more
silent manner, by a cold withdrawment of all
b 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
4 PHYSICAL THEORY
attention and all curiosity from the high themes
of meditation which it involves. In fact this is
the very danger to which our religion is now
exposed; nor is a too eager regard to things
unseen by any means the fault of our times.
There may then be a seasonableness in the
endeavour to engage attention upon the tranquil
but vivifying anticipation of another life; and
it is always true that a distinct and familiar
conception of it must aid us, as well in resisting
the seductions of the present life, as in sustaining
its pains and sorrows; nor does all the help we
can obtain of this kind always prove enough to
ensure a due repose of mind amid the agitating
alternations of hope and fear that attend our path.
If it be true that human nature, in its present
form, is only the rudiment of a more extended
and desirable mode of existence, we can hardly
do otherwise than assume that the future being
must be so involved in our present constitution
as to be therein discernible; and that a careful
examination of this structure, both bodily and
mental, with a view to the supposed reconstruc­
tion of the whole, may furnish some means of
conjecturing what that future life will be, at
least in its principal elements. It remains then
to be seen whether something of this sort may
not be effected ; and in attempting it we are not
left totally at large, or without hints of the path
we should attempt; for the inspired writings,
always listened to where they give any distinct
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 5
testimony, and narrowly scrutinized also in
every instance of a casual allusion to facts not
explicitly revealed, will furnish a guidance such
as may save endless wanderings in a false direc­
tion. Yet in using this guidance, the conditions
that belong to it should be borne in mind, lest
we should be led astray by taking it for what it
is not. These conditions must then be briefly
adverted to before we advance further.
Nothing, it is manifest, remains to be desired
in philosophy beyond the attainment of absolute
truth; and therefore, as the inspired writings,
within their province, convey truth, and truth
only, it might seem that, on every subject to
which their evidence extends, we have but to
admit it, and there to rest. Yet it must not be
forgotten that truth, in the scriptures, is always
presented under some special aspect, or as seen
from a particular position, or as bearing upon*
some definite human affection or immediate
duty: it is not truth in the abstract:— it is
indeed a pure element; but it is a particle only
of that element; and therefore will not stay the
inquiries of minds of philosophic cast, which,
by instinct, rise from what is partial to what is
general, and are impelled to pursue the universal
wherever they touch particulars. Such minds
may indeed (and if sound they often will) see
good reason for stopping short where the means
of acquiring further knowledge are totally
wanting *
, nor will they reluctate to confess their
Digitized by G o o g l e
6 PHYSICAL THEORY
ignorance in all such instances. Nevertheless
they must still resist the interdiction of those
who would require them to profess that such
particles are actually the whole truth, and all that
could possibly be known.
There is to be observed a manifest distinc­
tion between what immediately concerns us in
relation to the Divine government, which it is
indispensable we should well understand, and
what relates to the constitution of the invisible
world, to other orders of being, or to the
future physical condition of the human race.
It is to subjects of the former sort, chiefly, that
the inspired writers direct our attention, while
they only glance, incidentally and very hastily,
at subjects of the latter class. Not only do they
abstain from conveying truth in universal and
abstract terms, but they very rarely touch at all
any theme that can be considered as a proper
#object of scientific curiosity. This is now well
understood, and therefore the attempt is no
longer made to discover latent systems of phy­
sical science in the language of the Bible; and
it is agreed on all hands that although Moses
and the prophets contradict nothing which our
modern science has demonstrated, it formed no
part of their commission to embed a scheme of
the universe in the Hebrew text. And if physics
and astronomy are not to be sought there,
neither are metaphysics, nor psychology, nor
pneumatology to be inquired for from the in­
spired writers, notwithstanding that these
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 7
subjects are much more nearly related to the
principles of religion than the former can be.
What we may fairly rely upon is this, that, in
their incidental allusions to the constitution or
destinies of the gTeat intellectual system, and
while they are passing over ground where we
have no other direct means of information, the
inspired writers never lead us astray; or, when
fairly interpreted, give rise to suppositions that
are altogether unfounded, and contrary to fact.
And more than this we may well believe that,
so far as they go, they furnish us with an
incidental guidance, of which we may safely
avail ourselves while pursuing inquiries of a
scientific kind. In relation to the unseen world,
scripture is to be listened to much as we might
listen to an ambassador from a distant country,
who, while earnestly discharging the special
duties of his office, and while urging at large
the political and commercial interests of his ‘
sovereign, might make many allusions and
employ many phrases, which, when collected
and attentively considered, would serve to
convey some good, general notion of the climate,
usages, and wealth of his native land.
It is thus then that we propose to keep an ear
open to the apostolic voice, while endeavouring,
by another process than that of biblical interpre­
tation, to unfold the rudiments of the future life;
— always respecting the sacred canon, and ever
and again reverting to it as an infallible means
Digitized by G o o g l e
8 PHYSICAL THEORY
of keeping ourselves near to the true path of
inquiry. And with the very hope of making an
auspicious commencement, and with the view of
starting from solid ground, so that our first steps
at least may be sure, we shall devote a page to an
apostolic affirmation, which indeed might serve
as the text of our dissertation— “ There is,” says
St. Paul, “ a natural body, and there is a spiri­
tual body — the natural, or animal first, and
then the spiritual; and these, while agreeing in
certain general conditions, are contrasted in some
important respects; yet both serve as the vehicle
and instrument of the higher principle of our
nature.
The animated argument carried on through
the fifteenth chapter of the first epistle to the
Corinthians, stands alone, or nearly so, in the
body of scripture, as well as to its subject, as its
style; for we meet with nothing elsewhere within
the inspired pages so much resembling a physio­
logical disquisition, or any thing that goes so far
in setting before us, at one view, the natural
history of man, considered as destined to immor­
tality. And yet this argument does not depart
so widely from the customary style of scripture,
as to be otherwise than tropical in its terms, and
popular, rather than strictly scientific, in its mode
of reasoning and its illustrations. While, there­
fore, it may suggest the course we should pursue,
and prevent our setting out in a wrong direction,
it cannot be held to supersede the sort of inquiry
which we have now before us.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 9
The leading affirmation of St. Paul’s argument
we may consider to be the one just quoted, and
the import of which we may properly inquire
into, as a preliminary to the statement of our
physical theory of another life.
“ T here is a spiritual body.” It is then
Body, and not mere spirit, to which the reasoning
of the apostle relates. He is treating of the
transition which human nature is destined to pass
through, from one condition of corporeal exist­
ence to another; and he speaks of the laying
down a body that is gross, or at least infirm,
perishable, and ignoble, and the taking up a body
that shall be potent, illustrious, and permanent.
For aught we know, there may be a pure imma­
teriality, or an absolute separation from matter;
and moreover, some such state of sheer incor­
poreity may perhaps await the human race in
some stage of its progress toward its ultimate
condition; but no abstraction of this kind is
either affirmed or implied in the passage before u s;
nor does it enter into St. Paul’s argument, even
by so much as a passing allusion, or a solitary
phrase, thrown in to save a collateral truth. We
should be far indeed from thence inferring that
an immaterial state, in the fullest sense of the
term, is not in itself possible, or may not actually
have to be passed through by mankind; for
arguments drawn from negative evidence are
always extremely fallacious. Nevertheless, so
far as this passage goes, the doctrine of an abso-
Digitized by Google
10 PHYSICAL THEORY
lute incorporeity, as possible to human nature,
may be true, or it may not. The grand, or fore­
most principle of Christianity— namely, the resur­
rection of the dead, does not demand any such
doctrine, nor does the apostle (who was per­
sonally well qualified to judge of the hidden, yet
real connexion of principles) deem it necessary
to his conclusion, or at all pertinent to his subject
to affirm it. If questioned on the point, whether
the human soul is ever actually and entirely sepa­
rated from matter, it is not improbable that he
wQuld have dismissed the inquiry as altogether
irrelevant to religion, and as a theme proper to
be discussed among the professors of abstruse
science, with which he, as a teacher of Chris­
tianity, had nothing to do.
That which Christianity requires us to believe
is the actual survivance of our personal con­
sciousness embodied\and the perpetuity of our
sense of good and evil, and our continued sensi­
bility of pain and pleasure, and the unbroken
recollection, in another life, of the events and
affections of the present state« What Christianity
decisively affirms is, that the L ife— moral, intel­
lectual, and active, or corporeal, is not com­
mensurate with, or dependent upon, animal
organization; but that it may, and that it will
spring up anew from the ruins of its present
habitation. “ Destroy this body,” and the man
still lives: but whether he might live immate­
rially, is a mere question of philosophy, which
the inspired writers do not care to decide. In
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 11
almost all instances it is with facts, rather than
with abstruse principles, that they have to d o;
and in relation to our present subject, after
having peremptorily affirmed that human nature
is to survive in another state, and is to rise
embodied from the ashes of its present animal
organization, St. Paul leaves speculation at large,
neither denying nor affirming any hypothesis that
may consist with the fact which alone is impor­
tant to our religious belief.
Let it then be distinctly kept in view, that
although the essential independence of mind and
matter, or the abstract possibility of the former
existing apart from corporeal life, may well be
considered as implied in the Christian scheme, yet
an actual incorporeal state of the human soul,
at any period of its course, is not necessarily
involved in the principles of our faith, any more
than it is explicitly asserted. This doctrine
concerning what is called the immateriality of
the soul, should ever be treated as a merely
philosophical speculation, and as unimportant to
our Christian profession. The question then,
concerning pure immateriality, we regard as
having been passed, untouched, by St. Paul; nor
do we consider it as in any specific manner
important to the inquiries upon which we are
about to enter. Nevertheless, there may be an
advantage in concisely stating what seems to be
the present relative position of the two parties in
the old controversy concerning matter and mind:
— a controversy very likely to die away for ever.
Digitized by G o o g l e
12 PHYSICAL THEORY
The antagonist principles are then thus ba­
lanced.— Two classes of facts, readily distinguish­
able, present themselves to our consciousness:—
those of the one class we involuntarily attribute
to an external world, and think of as the conse­
quences of our connexion with matter, or as the
effects which its properties produce upon our
minds. But those of the other class we as inva­
riably regard as belonging to the mind, and as
arising from itself; and they are, many of them
at least, of a sort which we may easily imagine to
have place, if there were no external world, or if
the mind had no sentient knowledge of its exist­
ence. Theory and speculation apart, the entire
mass of our consciousness resolves itself, naturally
and easily, into these two elements; and it is
only by the temporary force of some arbitrary
system of philosophy, that we can be brought to
regard the two elements as essentially one and
the same; and the constitution of our minds
reluctates every moment at the violence done it
by any such means.
But notwithstanding the remonstrances of
common sense, the attempt has in every age
been renewed, on the one side by the materialist,
and on the other by the spiritualist (if we may so
use the term) to melt down these two elements
into a mass, or to annul the distinction between
them;— the one by affirming that mind is mere
organization, or a product of matter; and the
other, by alleging that those varied sensations or
states of the mind which, by “ a natural prejudice,”
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. IS
we attribute to an external material world, are
in fact nothing more than peculiar conditions of
the mind itself, and that there neither is an
external world, nor can b e; or that even if there
were, we could never have any substantial proof
of its existence.
Now the two parties, if indeed two such parties
may be said to be yet extant, have nearly come
to an agreement on one point, namely, that our
belief of the reality of matter and of mind can
never be made to stand together as collateral
truths, equal in authority, and resting upon the
same sort of evidence, and ascertained by the same
process of reasoning. If at last they are to con*
sist one with the other, the one must be assumed
as intuitively certain, and as incapable of proof
by reasoning; while, the other must thence be
derived in the way of inference, and must, how­
ever well proved, yet take a secondary place in
the order of things known. Which of the two
then shall we assume as needing no proof, and
employ as a fulcrum of argument in proving the
other, or in disproving it ?
The materialist— and in this argument the
materialist must take the atheist as his compa­
nion, the materialist says— “ It is impossible for
me to doubt the existence of matter; for it is
under my touch, it is before my eyes, and its
properties are the subject of the only sciences
that are absolute in their methods of reasoning,
and infallible in their results. But as to mind,
otherwise than as it is merely a function of animal
Digitized by G o o g l e
14, PHYSICAL THEORY
organization, or a product of cerebral secretions,
I know nothing, and can know nothing of it, and
the inquiry concerning it ever has been, and must
always remain obscure and unsatisfactory.”
But the spiritualist contemns this summary
treatment of the argument by his antagonist, as
crude and illogical, and such as can satisfy none
who are competent to analyse strictly their own
consciousness. He affirms that this statement of
the case by his opponent takes for granted the
very facts that are to be proved; and in reply to
the materialist, he says— “ All that I contend for,
and which I affirm to be intuitively certain, and
known without proof, you first tacitly assume,
and then formally deny. What are all these
sensations of touch and sight, and what are these
demonstrations of mathematical science of which
you speak, but so many states o f the mind— so
many mental phenomena, as I may term them,
which, while they imply necessarily the exist­
ence of mind, do but render the existence of
matter probable; or at best demonstrate its reality
by a circuit of reasoning. I will grant you that
an external world may exist, and I believe that it
does exist: but this very belief, let it rise as high
as it may, together with the argument that sus­
tains it, are still only so many elements of my
mental consciousness, and can never nullify or
annihilate that of which they are parts.” This
scepticism concerning the reality of matter, and
an external world, which is of a far more sub­
tile and sweeping kind than that of the mate­
Digitized by G o o g l e
OP ANOTHER LIFE. 15
rialist concerning mind, he finds it impossible to
supplant; and he feels himself undermined in his
assault upon spiritualism, and his foot sinks
whichever way he endeavours to advance. His
opponent therefore leaves him with this defiance
— “ Prove the existence of an external world if
you please, or if you can;— and I too believe it
to exist; but I believe it by inference ; and
therefore hold it as a truth, if not inferior in
certainty, yet assuredly as subordinate to that
primary truth— the existence of mind.”
Now even if it were granted that a due regard
to the constitution of the human mind— its
physiology, obliges us to receive its instinctive
and involuntary conviction of the reality of an
externalworld as a proper evidence of its existence,
and as superseding all reasoning on the subject, so
that the two truths should be considered as alike
intuitively known, still the spiritualist will retain
the advantage he has gained over his opponent ;
for it is manifest that, if there be room at all for
hesitation or scepticism in relation to either truth,
it is matter, not mind, that is in jeopardy. The
very ground of the assumption that the existence
of an external world ought to be admitted as
certain, without reasoning, is nothing else but a
consideration of the laws or constitution of the
mind. Mind therefore, and its elementary prin­
ciples, stands first in logical order; and the
existence of matter follows, if not as an inference,
yet as a truth to be affirmed after another has
been granted.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
16 PHYSICAL THEORY
The bearing of this controversy upon Chris­
tianity may thus be stated.— The doctrine of the
materialist, if it were followed out to its extreme
consequences, and consistently held, is plainly
atheistic, and therefore incompatible with every
form of religious belief. It is so because, in
affirming that mind is nothing more than the pro­
duct of animal organization, it excludes the belief
of a pure and uncreated mind— the cause of all
things; for if there be a supreme mind, abso­
lutely independent of matter, then, unquestion­
ably there may be created minds also independent
of matter. But if the materialist is ready to
admit, as he usually does, the divine existence and
the pure spirituality of the divine nature, and if he
professes to mean nothing more than that created
minds are in fa ct always embodied, and that, apart
from some material structure or animal organiza­
tion, there is no consciousness or activity, then,
and in this sense understood, materialism becomes
a doctrine of little or no importance, to our faith
as Christians, for it may consist well enough with
what is affirmed in the scriptures concerning the
immortality of man, the resurrection, the inter”
mediate state, and the existence and agency of
invisible orders. On the other hand, although
the great principles of theology are saved and
respected by the spiritualist, yet, if he goes so far
as to call in question the reality of the external
world, and the material universe, it will not be
without having recourse to very subtile modes
of reasoning, and to abstruse distinctions, that
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 17
he can reconcile this sort of scepticism with the
plain sense and explicit affirmations of the in­
spired volume. Moreover, as Christianity, by
its characteristic temper, distastes philosophic
refinements of all sorts, it will reject a theory
which tends to introduce a species of mysticism,
scarcely less atheistic than the bolder doctrine of
the materialist. T o bring into doubt in any way
(and it is of little moment in what way, or on
what pretext) that which the common sense of
mankind has always assumed to be certain, is— if
not to shake the evidence of all truth, yet to
paralyse the faculty by which evidence of any
kind is seized and held. Whether you rob a man
of his treasure, or disable the hand that grasps
it, you do him an equal injury; or perhaps we
should say that the latter is the worse wrong of
the two.
Our present passing reference to this contro­
versy may be dismissed with affirming the proba­
bility that it will ere long become totally extinct;
for as the atheistic materialist finds himself dis­
lodged from his too hastily assumed position, by
a scepticism more profound and refined than his
own, he is not likely again to provoke discus­
sion on the subject; while, on the other hand,
the spiritualist, who would never have enter­
tained or advanced his scepticism, concerning the
external world, if he had not been incited to do
so, as a summary means of dealing with the
atheist, will no longer have any urgent motive
for reviving the argument after it has been
c
Digitized by G o o g l e
18 PHY8ICAL THEORY
generally confessed that philosophic atheism is
indefensible. Thus, as we may fairly hope, the
two worlds of matter and mind will henceforward
be permitted quietly to coexist.
But be this as it may, the doctrine of the
scriptures concerning the destiny of man, stands
untouched:— or, to revert to the argument of
St. Paul on the subject of the resurrection, it is
altogether independent of any such abstruse
questions, inasmuch as it is Body, and not spirit
about which he reasons. His interrogatories and
his replies, may be reduced to these— ‘ Have
the dead ceased to exist ? Have those who are
fallen asleep perished ? N o ;— for there is a
spiritual body, and another vehicle of human
nature, as well as a natural body; and therefore
the dissolution of this animal structure leaves
the L ife untouched/ The animal body is not
itself the life, nor is it the cause of life: nor
again is the spiritual body the life, nor the cause
of it; but the one as well as the other are the
instruments of the mind, and the necessary
medium of every specific and productive exercise
of its faculties.
The Christian scriptures then, and St. Paul,
specifically, affirm, not any abstruse metaphysical
doctrine concerning mind and matter; but the
simple physiological fact, of two species of corpo­
reity, destined for m an; the first, that of our
present animal and dissoluble organization, which
we share, in all its conditions, with the irrational
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
sentient tribes around us; and the second— a
future spiritual structure, imperishable, and
endowed with higher powers, and many desirable
prerogatives.
Now having the sanction of this inspired affir-
mation of these two kinds of corporeity, and
intending to inquire concerning the probable
prerogatives of the future human body; it is
natural that we should first state what appear to
be the essential conditions of corporeity, whether
animal or spiritual, so that before we come to
ask wherein the spiritual body shall excel the
animal body, we may understand what it is in
which the two must be supposed to agree.
We assume the reality and independence of mind
and matter; and yet suppose that, although intrin­
sically unlike, and capable of existing, the one with­
out the other, nevertheless that, as they coexist,
so are they intimately blended, and reciprocally
affect each other within the circle of sentient and
active life. Body, whether animal or spiritual, is
a third essence— a middle nature, and the means
of the reciprocity of the two unlike substances.
Body is the tangential point of the two worlds of
mind and matter; or it is the amalgam of two
substances wherein the properties of both are so
blended as to constitute a mean, essentially
unlike what could have resulted from any pos­
sible construction of the one, by itself. The
body is to the mind the means of a mode of
existence, and the organ of an exertion of
powers which, in its incorporeal state it could
c 2
IS
Digitized by Google
20 PHYSICAL THEORY
never have known and exercised. If, metapho­
rically speaking, matter is refined and enno­
bled by its union to mind, it is mind that is
really advantaged thereby, for it is absolutely
indifferent to matter whether it be left in a
grosser state, or be wrought into a more elabo­
rate form. On the contrary, by compounding
itself with matter, mind takes possession of a
world foreign to itself; and, in a sense, doubles
its powers of action and its sphere of existence.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 21
C H A P T E R II.
THE CONDITIONS OF CORPOREITY, WHETHER
ANIMAL OR SPIRITUAL.
T he blending of mind and matter in the
bodily structure of the sentient and rational
orders, we may be assured, is a method of proce­
dure which, if it be not absolutely indispensable
to the final purposes of the creation, subserves
the most important ends, and carries with it
consequences such as will make it the general,
if not the universal law of all finite natures, in
all worlds. A little attention to what is involved
in the idea of corporeal existence will incline us
to believe that it is the basis of intellectual
activity— of moral agency, and of communion or
sociality among intelligent orders.
In stating these common prerogatives, or
consequences of corporeity, we of course leave
out of view whatever seems proper to animal
organization merely ; and we then ascend by
abstraction, as high as we can go, toward the few
essential conditions of the combination of mind
and matter.
And first, without question, we must affirm
that Body is the necessary means of bringing
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
22 PHYSICAL THEORY
Mind into relationship with space and extension,
and so, of giving it— Place. Very plainly, a
disembodied spirit, or we should rather say, an
unembodied spirit, or sheer mind, is no where.
Place is a relation belonging to extension; and
extension is a property of matter: but that
which is wholly abstracted from matter, and in
speaking of which we deny that, it has any pro­
perty in common therewith, can in itself be
subject to none of its conditions; and we might
as well say of a pure spirit that it is hard, heavy,
or red, or that it is a cubic foot in dimensions,
as say that it is here o
r there* It is only
popular and improper sense that any such affijN
raation is made concerning the Infinite Spirit,
or that we speak of God as every where present*
God is in every place in a sense altogether
incomprehensible by finite minds, inasmuch as
his relation to space and extension is peculiar to
infinitude. Using the terms as we use them of
ourselves, God is not here or there, any more
than he exists now and then. Although there­
fore the idea may not readily be seized by
every one, we must nevertheless yield it to be
true that, when we talk of an absolute imma-
teriality, and wish to withdraw mind altogether
from matter, we must no longer allow our­
selves to imagine that it is, or can be, in any
place, or that it has any kind of relationship to
the visible and extended universe. But in conf-
bming itself with matter, by the means of a
corporeal lodgment, mind brings itself into
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. <23
alliance with the various properties of the external
world, and takes a share in the conditions of
solidity and extension. Thenceforward mind
occupies one place, at one time, moves from
place to place, and may follow other minds, and
be followed by others;— it may find and be
found; it may be detained, of be set at large ;
it may go to and fro within a narrow circle, or
it may traverse a wide circle ; and while, by this
same means, the material universe is opened to
its acquaintance, it is also restricted in its oppor­
tunities of acquiring knowledge by its subjection
to the laws of gravitation and motion: we may
then with some degree of confidence regard a
corporeal state as indispensable to the exercise
of active faculties, to a scheme of government,
and to a social economy.
That which is finite— a finite mind for ex­
ample, must, as we are inclined to think, become
subject to some actual limitations, and must
undergo some specific relations, before its facul­
ties can come into play, or be productive of
effects. There is reason to conjecture (perhaps
stronger terms might be used) that none but
the Infinite Spirit can be more than a latent
essence, or inert power, until compacted by
some sort of restraint. The union with mat­
ter, or the coming into a corporeal state, may
be in fact, not a degradation to mind, but the
very means of its quickening— its birth into
the world of knowledge and action. The first
consequence of this birth is, as we have said,
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
the acquirement of locality in the extended
universe.
But in the second place, a relationship not at
all less important than the preceding, is un­
doubtedly dependent upon the union of ¡the
mind with matter, or upon its corporeity
namely, its relationship to T ime.
Consequences the most momentous, and which
perhaps we do not often think of, connected as
well with our intellectual and active, as our moral
life, attach to our connexion with that >
equable
motion by which duration is at once measured and
made sensible to us. Nor is it easy to conceive of
a social economy and system of government, in
a world where all were not held to one and the
same rate of intellectual movement, through
their contemporary period- Familiar as wo are,
and have always been with the equal periods
that are marked for us by the celestial and
telluric revolutions, we think it only* natural,
and a matter of course,'that our individual con­
sciousness of duration should flow on equably,
and that this consciousness of time in one mind,
should pretty nearly keep pace with the same
feeling in other minds. But a little attention to
some familiar facts, as well as to the reason of
the thing, will convince us that, for this equable
consciousness, or perception of the steady flow
of time, we are wholly indebted to external and
artificial means, deprived of which our notion of
duration, and our recollection of the successive
£4
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
parts of it, would foe the most variable and
illusory of all the conditions of our existence ;—
nay utterly irregular and unfixed, so that, ac­
cording to the ever varying velocity of our
mental states, a minute might seem a century,
or? a century a minute. We must indeed still
(as, finite beings) know ourselves to be flowing
along a line, or as existing instant by instant;
but should have no means of determining the
rate, or of rendering it equable.
Let the reader, by a little effort, imagine him­
self totally cut off from all connexion with the
clock-work of the material universe;— unin­
formed of the alternations of day and night, and
of summer and winter— remote from the swing of
the pendulum, and unconscious also of the beat­
ing of the pulse, of the heaving of the chest, of
the sensations of hunger and satiety, of sleep and
wakefulness :— in such a state of absolute seclu­
sion from all the mechanical and animal indices
e£ ¡equable motion— that is to say, knowing
nothing of time, he must very soon, or as soon
as the previously acquired habit of the mind had
become indistinct, cease to be conscious of any
other difference between a long period and a
short one, than that which might be derived
from the actual equableness of his thoughts and
emotions; and if these at some seasons (as in
fact they do) followed one the other with incal­
culable rapidity, while at another season a single
idea or emotion remained fixed in the mind,
there would be no possible means of his ascer-
£5
Digitized by ^ m O o q le
26 PHYSICAL THEORY
tabling whether, since a certain mental state or
epoch, he had existed an hour, a day, a year, a
century, or a thousand years. Thus insulated
from equable motion* we should not be able to
correct our individual consciousness of duration
by comparing it with that of others under like
circumstances; lor while one, by the peculiar
constitution of his mind, would tell us an eter­
nity had elapsed since we last conferred with
him, another, either more inert, or more addicted
to dwell upon abstractions, would say— it was
only yesterday when we compared eras. To
mere mind, a long period means nothing else'
but a period in which it has passed through
many and various states with a vivid conscious­
ness and distinct recollection of each ; and a
short period is one during which few ideas or
emotions have sluggishly followed each other,
or have intently engaged it, or, whether few or
many, have clean passed from the memory. Yet
the former may in fact have been only a tenth
or a hundredth part of the latter. Every one’s
experience in dreaming, or in sickness, may
furnish him with facts illustrative of the unfixed­
ness and illusory quality of our consciousness of
duration, when entirely deprived of the external
means of collating our mental history with the
regular motions of the material world.
It is motion that measures duration, and Time
is duration, measured into equal parts by the
equable motion of bodies through space. But
as motion belongs to matter, of which it is a
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE* 27
condition, and is that wherein duration and
extension combine to form a common product,
so mind must become related to extension, in
order to its having any knowledge of motion,
or to ks being able to avail itself of the measure­
ment of duration y in other words, it is only
in connexion with matter that it can know any
thing of time.
Minds embodied, not only learn to measure out
their own existence equally, and to correct the illu­
sions of which otherwise they would be the sport,
but also,, by an insensible habit, come to exist at a
more even velocity, if we may so speak, than could
else be possible, and learn unconsciously to put a
curb upon,the excessive and dangerous rapidity of
thought; while in other cases a spur is supplied
for the sluggishness of the mind, or a remedy
found for its undue fixedness; and thus all minds
are brought to move together, at nearly the
same rate, or at least as nearly so as is essential
for securing the order and harmony of the social
system. We should not be warranted in affirm­
ing that mere minds, or unembodied spirits, could
not, by any means purely immaterial, become
conscious of the equable lapse of duration. But
we see in fact that it is exclusively through the
corporeal alliance of mind with the external
world, that this important rectification of its
consciousness is effected; nor would it be diffi­
cult to specify some very momentous conse­
quences attaching to the government of the
moral system, that may perhaps be found to
Digitized by G o o g l e
28 PHYSICAL THEORY
result from a suspension, or from the restoration
of this means of knowing the lapse of time. In
truth, a speculation of this kind, if pursued in all
its bearings, might lead to our taking a new
view, not merely of the economy of the human
system, but of that world of animal life and
enjoyment by which we are surrounded. We are
accustomed to take it for granted that all crea­
tures are living at one and the same rate, or that
they are going, by our clock; whereas in fact, if
we duly consider the analogies of the system of
nature, we shall see reason to conjecture that,
while perhaps some species of animals are living
much slower than ourselves, others may be living
inconceivably faster. It is by no means unphilow
sophical to imagine that the ephemera of a
summer’s noon, which we are apt to pity as short
lived, may, in the compass of their few sunny
hours, be running through a century of joyous
sensations; and if the microscope, which exposes
to our view the vivacious tenants of a drop of
water, had the power also of laying open the
whirl of the sentient faculty of these tribes, it
might appear, to our amazement, that the busy
history of a thousand years is compacted into
their life of a day or an hour, so that the
diminutiveness of their visible organs is even
less astonishing than the compression of their
consciousness. These speculations are however
foreign to our immediate purpose.
Nevertheless we must follow them a single
step further, so as to point out a not improbable
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. £9
consequence of the principle upon which the
visible universe is constructed :— we mean that of
the subdivision of the mass into spheres, revolving’
in precise times, and each world, as it seems,
being furnished with a double or treble measure­
ment of time, by its annual and diurnal rotations,
by its cycle of seasons, and by the revolution of
its satellites. In looking abroad upon the thickly
peopled fields of space, wherein all worlds are
made subject to the law of equable motion,
who can resist the belief that this stupendous
machinery (whatever other purposes its revolu­
tions may subserve) is a vast horology— a register
of duration, to all rational tribes, and a means,
indispensable to the purposes of universal govern­
ment, of holding all minds to the due symphony
of time. As all minds, by the means of corpo­
reity are connected with extension, and are
limited to place, so are all, by the same means,
and by the revolution of the worlds they inhabit,
bound down to time. There may be intelligent
orders, so fiery in temperament, that, but for this
physical check— this necessity of keeping pace
with the slow march of the planetary bodies, they
would outrun their term, and leave their ranks
in the steady movement of the great social
system. Are there, on the other hand, minds
secluded from the sight of the visible heavens,
and shut out from every means of reckoning years
and centuries ? Such may be passing through a
state and process during the continuance of which
the perception of time would be no boon.
Digitized by {j Oo q le
30 PHYSICAL THEORY
In the third place, as the corporeal alliance
of the mind with matter is seen to be in fact
the means of exposing it passively to the pro­
perties of the material world, and thus of
making it liable to pleasures and pains not
proper to itself, and to some of the most intense
kind, so may this connexion be universally
necessary for the same end. In truth, the plea­
sures and the pains to which the mind is laid
open by its amalgamation with matter in the
body, are so intense as to take the lead, for the
most part, in determining its active and moral
destiny. If indeed the mind were not inherently
susceptible of impressions from the properties of
matter, it is not any animal organization that
could render it so. Nevertheless it is probable that
sensation is the result of corporeity, or an effect
not taking place apart from that intimate blending
of the two alien substances of which the body is
the medium; or it may be only as embodied that
the perceptions of the mind are definite and dis­
tinct. In illustration of this alleged consequence
of corporeity, as the necessary means of render­
ing the mind conscious of the properties of matter,
we might refer to the instances, so frequent in
chemical science, in which two substances remain
in juxta position, without in any manner affect­
ing each other, or combining, until the presence
of a third substance puts their affinities into
action. It is thus that the presence of heat, or of
electricity, or of oxygen, or of water, is the
means of forming innumerable compounds, or of
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 31
dissolving them. And so, as there is room to
conjecture, the unknown principle of life, may be
the third power, or element, the agency of which
brings mind into conscious connexion with matter,
rendering it sensible of light, and colours, of heat,
solidity, sound, tastes, smells, motion, and all their
variations of intensity. Embodied, the mind, by
a process of natural and involuntary education,
becomes familiar with a certain set or circle of the
properties of the material world; and though still
unconscious, probably, of many other of its pro­
perties, yet gains an acquaintance with it in all the
points that are important to its present welfare;
and thus, as in a foreign school, brings its other­
wise latent faculties into exercise. Moreover it
is as embodied that the mind oomes under the
potent and sovereign discipline of organic plea­
sures and pains— and how large a portion of
its history hinges upon this susceptibility!
There is no reason (at least we have no reason)
to believe that, apart from body, or in a purely
incorporeal state, the mind could either enjoy
or suffer in any oilier manner than intellectually.
Probably the whole of that peremptory and
efficacious impulse which is necessary [for putting
the intellectual and moral faculties in activity,
and for maintaining their activity, springs from
this exposure of the mind to the stimulating
properties of matter;— that is to say, from its
corporeal constitution.
But then, and in the fourth place, this same
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
intimate connexion between mind and matter,
while it exposes the mind, passively, to the in­
fluence of matter, becomes, in return, the means
of its exerting a power (and how extensive and
mysterious a power is it 1) over the solid masses
around it. Mind, embodied, by a simple act òr
volition, originates motion. That is to say, its
will or desire, through the instrumentality of
muscular contractions, as applied to the body
itself, or to,, other bodies, puts it or them in
movement. This power of the mind in over­
coming the visinertia of matter, and the force of
gravitation, is the only active influence'in relation
to the material world, which we have a certain
knowledge of its possessing; for, as is obvious,
the various combinations of substances that are
brought about by the skill of man, aragli indi­
rectly effected through the instrumentality of the
muscular system ; nor can itbe ascertainedwhether
the chemical changes and assimilations that are
carried on in the secreting glands, and the viscera,
are effected by an unconscious involuntary mental
operation. This organic influence excepted, sup­
posing it to exist, the mechanical power of the
mind is the only one it enjoys; but this it enjoys,
as we shall again have occasion to observe, in no
mean degree. It may, without much hazard, be
assumed that motion, in all instances, originates
in an immediate volition, either of the supreme,
or of some created mind, and that this power is
exerted by the latter through the means of a
corporeal structure. In what way this same
m
Digitized by Goog[<
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 33
power may in future be extended or enhanced
we shall soon have to inquire.
Hitherto we have considered those consequences
or prerogatives of corporeity, which have an
immediate relation to the material world, and in
which consists the mind's direct alliance with
matter. But there are other consequences of this
same alliance that fall in upon the mind itself,
and which, if they do not originate some of its
operations, or modes of feeling, yet modify them
to a great extent.
Thus, and* in the fifth place, it is to its corpo­
real connexion with the external world that must
be attributed the mind's liability to various mixed
emotions, as well pleasurable as painful, of the
tflass called imaginative. These emotions, often
of *the most powerful kind, and which are
neither merely animal or organic, nor purely
intellectual or moral, mingle with all other
elements of our nature, and modify, abate,
or stimulate every function of the active and
moral life. The sense of fitness, of beauty, of
sublimity, of terror, of harmony and music, and
their opposites, give rise, in their various complex
forms, to sentiments and to modes of action
such as are scarcely more foreign to what belongs
to brute life, than they are to what might belong
to mind in a state of absolute abstraction from
matter. Each of these sensibilities and tastes,
with its endless combinations, is, in a sense,
a product of the material universe, and is
D
Digitized by G o o g l e
34 PHYSICAL THEORY
directly consequent upon a corporeal mode of
existence.
The imaginative sentiments might perhaps, at a
first view, be regarded as being of temporary use
only, inasmuch as they constitute a reconciling
medium between the animal and intellectual
principles. But, in considering them further, it
appears that they go beyond this lower office,
and in fact mingle themselves with the very
highest and purest of our moral feelings. We
ought then to reckon them among the noble
and permanent elements of our nature, and must
therefore assume that they will belong to the
spiritual, as they have belonged to the animal
body. If man were animal only, he Would
neither need, nor indeed could he possess an
imaginative faculty; or, on the other hand, if he
were rational only, or moral only, the class of
sentiments that arise from this faculty he would
spurn (could he conceive of them) as degrading,
or as illusory ;— inasmuch as they present some­
thing which is either more or less than absolute
truth, reason, and rectitude. Or if man, being
at once animal, moral, and rational, were yet
destitute wholly of imagination and of its sensi­
bilities, he would painfully want harmony and
combination; and would be compelled, every
hour, to pass, with a shocking abruptness, from
one mode of existence, and from one principle of
life to another, without the aid of any transition-
feelings. But as we are actually constituted we
find within the circle of our mental economy
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 35
nothing so purely rational (not even mathema­
tical truth) and nothing so simply moral, as not,
by the medium of imaginative tastes, to be brought
into alliance, remotely at least, with animal sen­
sations; nor, on the other hand, is there any
liking so merely sensual as not to be, in some
measure, relieved, ennobled, or graced by an in­
termixture of ideas of beauty and order. Now the
body, with its organic impressions, is manifestly
the means of effecting this harmony of the various
elements of our mental constitution, and so of
generating complex sentiments of a sort which
we should most reluctantly lay aside, even
although the primary purpose they were intended
to subserve, in relation to the present life, were
superseded.
Our speculation must not hastily be condemned
as a mere subtilty, when we assume it to be
probable that the correspondence of finite minds
with the Infinite Mind needs to be attempered
by an admixture of those imaginative sentiments
which take their rise in the corporeal consti­
tution. Those organic and quelling impres­
sions of beauty, sublimity, majesty, and those
feelings of awe, and of ecstasy, and that adora­
tion in which a latent dread or terror imparts
intensity to the happier feeling of affection— all
these mixed emotions shall perhaps be found
necessary, as well for keeping finite minds in the
place that becomes them, as for enabling them to
sustain the immediate presence of the bright and
absolute perfection. The imaginative sentiments
d 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
36 PHYSICAL THEORY
may thus serve at once to facilitate a nearer
approach to the ineffable glory than would other­
wise be possible, and to fence off the mount of
vision, if we may so speak, against dangerous
intrusions* If this conjecture be well founded,
we may be inclined to suppose that all 'rational
orders are made to commence their course under
the condition of animal organization, wherein
they become thoroughly imbued with these ima­
ginative sentiments, which, in a refined form
they are to carry on with them throughout their
immortality.*
Not to multiply distinctions, or refine too
much, we may class under this same head, those
various modifications of the moral sentiments,
both in the way of abatement and of enhance­
ment, which arise from our corporeal sympathies
and animal desires. Neither love nor anger,
nor the sense of justice, nor the emotion of pity,
neither shame, remorse, hatred, amity, ambition,
humility, hope, or fear, is what it would have
been if there were no concomitant organic
sensations. These emotions of the moral nature,
and especially when they form habits or dispo­
sitions, and constitute individual character, are
unquestionably modified, to a very great extent,
• Does this conjecture receive support from the apostolic doc­
trine—“There are bodies celestial,andbodies terrestrial—there is a
natural body—and aspiritual body—Howbeit that notfirst which
is spiritual, but thatwhich is natural; and afterward
spiritual.” This order, or regular process, this transition, is it the
universal law ofthe intelligent creation?
Digitized by G o o g l e
OP ANOTHER LIFE. 37
by the peculiarities of the physical temperament;
and hence arise various modes of feeling, of a
complex kind, which must be traced to the body
as their source. Now even if these physical
modifications of the moral nature might be
dropped with the dissolution of the animal frame,
so that the moral sentiments should return to an
absolutely simple state, it is not certain that we
should be gamers by the change: on the con­
trary, it is easy to imagine that a new power and
intensity, a vividness and a spring shall be im­
parted to the moral principles from their sym­
pathy with the organic energies of the spiritual
body. A t present we are conscious of the fact
that activity and force are infused into the moral
sentiments, even the most exalted of them, by
their alliance with animal sensations; it is so with
the domestic affections, and with general benevo­
lence, and pity, courage, and ambition: the rule of
analogy therefore leads us to suppose that similar
effects will follow from a similar combination, in
the future construction of human nature.
Once more, and in the sixth place, the corpo­
real alliance of mind and matter is, in the present
state, and, as we may strongly conjecture, it. will
be, the means of so defining our individuality in
relation to others, as to bring minds under the
conditions of a social economy. The purposes
of such a system demand, in the first place, what
may be called the seclusion or the insulation of
each spirit, or its impenetrability by other spirits.
Digitized by
b,Google
38 PHYSICAL THEORY
Communication and exchange of thought must,
under any plan of free agency, be voluntary ;
there must rest with each member of the com­
munity a power of reserve ; and then the means
of communication being arbitrary, must be abso­
lutely under the command of the individual*
Now the body is not the open bower or tent of
the soul, into which any one may walk at plea­
sure ; but it is its castle, from which all other
minds may be excluded. Perhaps unembodied
spirits (if such there be) may lie open to inspec­
tion, or be liable to invasion, like an unfenced
field, or a plot of common land. But although
such a state of exposure might involve no harm
to beings absolutely good, or absolutely evil,
we cannot imagine it to consist with the safety
or dignity of beings like man; or indeed to be
proper to a mixed economy.
But further ; a social system demands the means
of immediate recognition individually ; and this,
in the present state, is provided for by the endless,
yet distinct peculiarities of bodily conformation,
and by that law of the animal organization which
gives to each peculiarity of the mind, and temper,
and temperament, a characteristic exterior expres­
sion. It must not be positively affirmed that these
purposes could not, in the nature of things, be
secured without the aid of a corporeal structuré ;
yet there is some reason to question whether
sheer spirits could (except by immediate acts of
the Divine power) be individually dealt with,
and governed, could be known, and employed,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 59
could be followed and detained, could form
lasting associations, and be moulded into hierar­
chies and polities, could sustain office, and yield
obedience, in any certain manner, if at all. A t
least is it true that all these functions and social
ends are now in fact dependent upon corporeity ;
and it is only fair to assume that they demand a
bodily structure in every case where minds are to
live and act in concert with others.
The supposition lias already been advanced#
that the definite or productive agency of finite
natures demands that Mind be compacted, or
bound down to those conditions of limitation
which attach to matter, and which mind under­
goes in becoming allied to . matter. Now the
same principle, if it be good, must imply, and
even more clearly, this same limitation of minds,
as the condition of their being definitely related
one to another, and of their acting one upon
another, and one with another. We imagine
that by the medium of corporeity the mind is
defined» and its powers rendered applicable to
definite purposes.
In thus naming what appear to be the com­
mon conditions or prerogatives of corporeal
existence, whether natural or spiritual, we of
course do not include any adjunct of the present
life which makes part of our animal organization
merely, and which may readily be conceived of as
dropped along with the perishable body. After
* Page 23.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
40 PHYSICAL THEORY
setting off all such temporary faculties of the
body, and which are subservient only to the
well being of the animal structure itself— to its
preservation, or to its reproduction, we reach
those properties or consequences of the corporeal
constitution which are directly subservient to the
mind, and which therefore may, on good grounds,
be regarded as belonging to corporeity abstract­
edly, and as likely to attach to the future spiritual
body. Such, manifestly, are— the occupation; of
place, or a relationship to space and extension*—
the consciousness of equable motion, or a know­
ledge of time— the consciousness of the proper­
ties of matter, or sensation— an active power
over matter, to originate motion— the suscep­
tibility of imaginative emotions, and of mixed
moral sentiments— and a defined recognizable
individuality. . *
Besides these properties or consequences of the
corporeal union of mind and matter, as above
described, others of a more abstruse kind, might
be named which affect the processes of reasoning;
but it may be better to confine ourselves, at pre­
sent, to what is the most simple and indisputable,
and especially as fit opportunities will arise, in
pursuing our inquiry, for adverting to some of
these more intricate subjects. In truth a strict
analysis of our mental operations would hardly
leave one free from a reasonable supposition of
being extensively modified by the interaction of
mind and body, or of being what it is in conse­
quence of the dependence of the mind upon the
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 41
organization and functions of the brain. It is so
with the memory, with the association of ideas,
with the power of attention, with the processes
of comparison, calculation and reasoning, and
with the inventive faculty, and the perception of
analogies.
-Having thus inquired what it is which ought
to be attributed in common to the animal and to
the spiritual body, and which must belong as well
to the future as to the present lodgment of the
human mind, we are next to ask (on the ground
of physical probability) what it is wherein the
difference between the one and the other will
consist; or in other words, what are likely to be
the prerogatives of the latter, as compared with
the former ; or in what manner the actual powers
of the present structure of human nature may be
conceived of as expanded or advantaged, consist­
ently with those great principles of analogy
which we find to characterize the Divine operar
tion8 in all their departments.
Digitized by G o o g l e
42 PHYSICAL THEORY
C H A P T E R III.
THE PROBABLE PREROGATIVES OF SPIRITUAL COR­
POREITY, AS COMPARED WITH ANIMAL ORGANI­
ZATION :---THE FIRST OF THOSE PREROGATIVES.
In now approaching the hypothetical part of
our subject, we must again remind the reader of
the important distinction between the mere
creations of the imagination, and the legitimate
results of analysis and abstraction. It is not the
imagination that can render us aid in conceiving
of a new and different mode of existence, since
it is but the mirror of the world around it, and
draws all its materials from things actually
known. It may exalt, refine, ennoble, enrich,
what it finds ; and may shed over all the splen­
dour of an effulgence such as earth never sees;
yet it must end where it began, in compounding
elements, and in recombining forms furnished to
its hand; and if ever it goes, or seems to go,
beyond these materials, the product is grotesque
or absurd, not beautiful: there is no symmetry
in that which trenches upon the actual forms of
nature. But the faculty of analysis may boldly
and safely outstep the imagination; and may, by
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 43
a careful examination of the constituents of
human nature, considered in their abstract value,
be able, in accordance with sound principles of
analogy, to point out other modes of construc­
tion such as, while they imply only small actual
changes of form, involve high prerogatives. In
some of these instances it may not be difficult to
assign a reason why such prerogatives should
not have been granted to man, in his present
condition; and yet it may be equally easy, or
nearly so, to show that they are abstractedly
possible, and that they are compatible one with
another, and that they comport with the probable
purposes of a higher range of intellectual and
moral life.
And be it always remembered that although
hypothesis is not truth— or we should rather
say, is not truth ascertained, yet, when legiti­
mately used, it is the most ready and effective of
all the means in our power for acquiring truth.
It is by hypothesis, framed with at once a bold
and a cautious sagacity, that the boundaries of
science are extended : and it is in the use of this
method that facts and principles which once
seemed to be placed far beyond the reach of
human intelligence have at length been brought
to form a part of our well-established modem
philosophy. A t the least, or where nothing can
be done beyond the mere statement of a rational
and consistent theory, this, while carefully kept
apart from matters of certainty and faith, may
serve the important purposes, first, of superseding
Digitized by G o o g l e
44 PHYSICAL THEORY
a multitude of difficulties, themselves drawn from
hypothetical sources; and secondly, of affording a
provisional aid to meditative) mindsyin loosening
from things sensual and temporary, iand' in bring­
ing vividly home to their convictions th e,bright
expectation of a future and undecaying felicity.
Nothing could be more manifestly absurd
than the supposition that any efforts ofthe mind,
how strenuous soever, can enable it to conceive,
even in the faintest manner, of a mode of exisi>-
ence essentially and totally unlike ovur actual
mode of life ; for this were to imagine.ourselves
endowed with a real creative faculty* But ithe
task we now undertake, although arduous, is
altogether of another sort; inasmuch as/it is
proposed to specify the conditions of a mode of
existence, differing from the present: as little as
may be, and yet in a manner that shall secure
the highest advantages. On a line of conjecture
like this, sobriety may be mistress of our course,
nor need we set a single step, without a sufficient
reason for the direction we take* That the
principle of analogy will hold good, in con­
necting the present with the future constitution
of human nature is a persuasion which, while the
material universe is before us, it is scarcely
possible to resist; and that such an analogy will
actually run on from the present to the future,
the language of scripture plainly implies. But
if so, then it cannot be thought a hopeless task
to trace the rudiments at least of the future,
amid the elements of the present life. Our part
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 45
then is to examine in succession the several
constituents of our corporeal existence, and to
consider of what extensions each faculty may be
susceptible, or how it might be set at large from
the limitations that actually confine it.
W e take perhaps the most accessible path on
this field of hypothesis by considering, in the first
places the least intellectual of the faculties of
the mind— namely, its power to originate motion.
Now this power, mysterious as it is, may be
conceived of as applied in a different manner,
and so as to involve a great and desirable exten­
sion of our range of corporeal activity and
enjoyment. It was an ancient opinion, to which
modern philosophy also inclines— that motion,
in every case, is the product of mind, and that
though transmitted and continued through various
means, it never commences except in a volition,
either of the Supreme Mind, or of created minds.
This doctrine may well have been suggested by
our consciousness, with which it exactly com­
ports. The mere volition is followed by mus­
cular action, and the process is absolutely simple
and instantaneous ; nor does any thought of the
physical apparatus— the muscular contractions,
the tendonous attachments, or the bony fulcra,
enter into the mental operation. In fact there is
no process at all ; there is no circuit of acts or
preparations: motion follows will, just as per­
ception follows the impact of vibrations— without
interval : will and motion are immediately
Digitized by
46 PHYSICAL THEORY
conjoined, and the organic and mechanical
structure by which it is effected are modes only
through which the power of the mind is defined,
and is directed in a particular line of movement.
The visinertia of matter, the tendency of
gravitation, and the resistance of the atmosphere,
are all met and instantaneously overcome by a
direct mechanical force— a force which is not
that of bones, tendons, and muscular fibres ; but,
the force of mind. Bones, tendons, nerves, and
muscles, do in fact come between mind and
matter; but it is as instruments only, and as a
staff or a chord intervenes between the hand and
the body that is moved by it. The expansive
force of heat, as applied in the vaporization of
water, is not a more direct mechanical force than
is the impulsive power of the mind in man and
other locomotive animals. We are accustomed
indeed to say that the mind acts mechanically,
only by exciting muscular irritability, and the
tension of fibres. But is not this assumption
altogether gratuitous ? Our consciousness does
not suggest any such belief:— in rapidly and
forcibly moving the hand— in striking a blow, we
know nothing of contractile fibres, or of muscles,
or of a circuitous despatching of orders from the
mind to the brain, and from the brain along the
nervous chords, to such and such muscles, as the
case may demand. The mind is in the hand, and
there it originates the motion; it is not, or not if
our consciousness speak true, in the anatomical
or physiological mechanism. This complex
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 47
apparatus performs its part, at the moment when
called upon, with as little of our control or
interference as do the heart, and the intestines,
and the liver, perform their constant offices.
Nor is the mechanical power of the mind of a
slender or evanescent sort, like certain barely
perceptible galvanic or magnetic influences,
which, although they may just be detected in a
nicely conducted and elaborate experiment, elude
common observation, and are incapable of being
so far enhanced as to propel the smallest solid
mass. The mind impels matter with the celerity
of lightning, and with a force that is bounded,
as it seems, only by the adhesive strength of the
engine it employs; that is to say, by the solidity
of the bones, the tenacity of the ligatures, and
tendons, and by the degree in which the irrita­
bility of the fleshy substance may be wrought
upon. That the inherent power of the mind is
in fact limited by the strength of the materials it
employs ( just as the expansive force of steam is
limited by the strength of copper and iron)
becomes evident in those instances in which,
from want of a due caution, it actually breaks
up or rends its own animal machinery. Acting
through the medium of a lever of that sort in
which velocity is gained at the cost of power, it
yet puts in motion masses greater in bulk and
heavier than the animal frame; and were the
whole muscular energy of a robust man to be
applied in one direction, and through the means
of a lever of the first order, it would be sufficient
Digitized by G o o g l e
48 PHY8ICAL THEORY
to crush or to burst far stronger materials than
those which compose the animal body. An
habitual and unconscious discretion is, in truth,
acquired early in life, which checks our muscular
efforts, and leads us to refrain from the full
exertion of the power we might exert, lest
injury should be done to the vascular system, or
to the tendons, or to the ligatures and fascia.
A man in full health is capable of far greater
efforts than he ordinarily permits himself to
m ake; and when this habitual restraint is
thrown aside, as in cases of sudden peril, or of
delirium and madness, the inherent mechanical
force of mind is displayed, and it is seen that
one lunatic or one desperate man exerts a power
with which five or six in their ordinary senses
can hardly cope. This same force, otherwise
applied, would be enough, and much more than
enough to overcome the inertia and the
gravitation of the body, and to impart to it a
velocity greater than that of the swiftest of birds.
%
Furthermore, in the animal structure the force
of the mind is limited, not only in its amount by
the strength of the organic materials, but in its
direction also by the system of articulation, and
by the specific arrangement of the muscles. A
door, however impelled, can only revolve on its
hinges: the piston can play perpendicularly
only ; and the limbs have their appointed move­
ment— prone or supine, lateral or rotatory, and
always in conformity with a definite mechanism.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 49
One part of this mechanism consists of the
nervous communication between the limb and
the brain. Sever or tie the nervous chord, and
the muscles no longer receive from the cerebral
mass or spinal process that pabulum of irritability
which they require : the mind, in that case, does
not take effect upon the limb. It may be said
indeed that the nervous chord is the channel not
of muscular excitement, but of , which,
taking place in the brain, is supposed to run
along the thread, conveying itself duly to this,
that, and the other muscles, to ffectors, pronators,
supinators, See. as is needed to perform the
intended movement. But how is any such gra­
tuitous supposition proved, or even made to appear
probable ? A ll we are conscious of is— the voli­
tion ; and all we learn from physiology is, that
muscular contraction requires a certain galvanic
influence, of which influence the brain appears
to be the secreting viscus, and the nerves, the
channel. The hand cannot follow the mind
unless constantly supplied with blood by the
heart, and with galvanic excitement by the brain;
nor can the stomach digest food unless in the
same manner it be supplied with both, from the
heart, and from the brain: but it is not the heart
that digests the food, nor is it the brain that
digests i t ; but the living power, with its sol­
vents, in the coats of the stomach *
, and thus, as
we suppose, it is not the brain that moves the
hand, in any, other sense than that in which it
may be said that the heart does so» although
E
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
50 PHYSICAL THEORY
the functions of both are indispensable to motion ;
but it is the mind, present in the hand and arm,
that is the actual power.
But the inference we have in view, in con­
nexion with our immediate subject, is not de­
pendent upon the hypothesis we may adopt
concerning the occult process of muscular move­
ment ; for whether we suppose, as the author is
inclined to do, that the mind impels the limb imme­
diately, and that the influence derived from the
brain, through the nervous chord, is subsidiary
only; or whether we think that volition, affecting
the brain immediately, is thence conveyed to the
muscles, it will still be true that mind puts
matter in movement; only under the last named
supposition the influence must be considered as
chemical; whereas, on the former supposition,
it is simply mechanical. In the one case, as
well as the other, inert matter is put into vehe­
ment action, and it is quite as easy to conceive
of the one species of movement, as of the other*
as originated by mind.
We are then free to adopt the hypothesis,
which seems the simpler of the two, namely, that
animal motion springs immediately from the
inherent mechanical power of the mind over
matter, which it impels at will, hither and
thither, with a velocity like that of light, and
with a force that, so far as we know, is limited
only by the tenacity of the tendinous chords, and
by the strength of the coats of the vessels.
But in like manner as sensation is confined,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE* 51
in the animal organization, to particular points,
or to surfaces of nervous excitability; so is the
mechanical force of the mind restricted to those
flexions and rotations which the joints will admit
of, and which the muscles may perform. Nothing
more therefore can be done by a machinery such
as this, but change the relative position of the
limbs, and so, by throwing the centre of gravity
forward or backward, on this side, or on that,
to effect locomotion. The flight of birds, the
swimming of fishes, and the walking, running,
and leaping of land animals are mere adapta-
tions of an altered relative position of the limbs,
taking effect suddenly and forcibly upon resisting
bodies.
Let it however be supposed that muscular
action takes place in the circuitous mode of
chemical excitement» which we have stated;
and in this case it is easy to conceive of the
very same power (nor need it be greater) acting
upon, or through the medium of, a corporeal
structure absolutely infrangible, and indestruc­
tible ; and it would then suffice for effecting loco­
motion by impulsion upon a resisting medium
in a manner analogous to the flight of birds, but
greatly surpassing it in velocity. This suppo­
sition, though easily admitted, we should not
entertain; but should prefer the hypothesis that,
in the future spiritual body, whether or not the
mechanical apparatus shall be altogether super­
seded, the entire corporeal mass shall be liable
e 2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
52 PHYSICAL THEORY
to a plenary mental influence, equably diffused,
and although still subject to the vis inertia and
gravitation that are proper to matter, both shall
be overcome, at will, by the embodied mind, so
that the locomotion of the whole shall follow
volition, as now the relative motion of the limbs
follows it. This we consider to imply nothing
more than the setting the inherent mechanical
power of the mind at large, and the breaking up
its restriction to the muscular structure and the
osseous articulations. A body thus informed
throughout, by the energy of mind, might be
either subtile and ethereal, like the magnetic
fluid; or it might be as dense and ponderous as
gold, or as adamant; for the most elastic gas is
in itself not at all more self-motive than a block
of granite; and it is a mere illusion to imagine
that the one might more readily be affected by the
volitions of mind than the other. The seraph
who steers his course at pleasure from sun to sun,
and who overtakes the swiftest of the planets in
its orbit, may corporeally possess an invisible
and imponderable ether, or (which is equally
credible) he may command a gigantic body, solid
as porphyry. The two suppositions stand on
the same ground of abstract probability \ for
matter, in relation to mind, is one and the same,
and always inert and passive.
The first article then of our hypothesis con­
cerning the future spiritual body involves nothing
more than an extension of a power now actually
exerted by the mind, and which is easily con-
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 53
ceiyed of as set free from its muscular restric­
tions, in such a manner as should allow of loco­
motion by simple volition, as well as of the
power to put external masses in movement.
Nevertheless, inasmuch as a corporeal structure
must involve the limitations that attach necessa­
rily to matter, it may well be supposed that this
locomotive faculty, how wide soever its range,
will yet be a force related, to other forces, and
counterpoised by a definite resistance— it will
have its calculable velocity, and its limit which
it will not pass.
A fit occasion will present itself the follow­
ing pages, for adverting to the probable uses and
consequences of this enlarged power of loco­
motion ; but that it actually awaits human nature
might be plausibly inferred on the ground that
the muscular force is now felt to be— a power
restrained ; a faculty equal to much more than is
as yet permitted to i t : and perhaps, with not a
few individuals, the conscious mechanical energy
is strictly analogous to that of a strong man
fettered and handcuffed, who meditates what he
will do when set at large. Is there not a latent,
or a half latent instinct in the mind which speaks
of a future liberty of ranging at will through
space? There are some, perhaps, who will
admit that they have indistinct anticipations of
this sort, quite as strong as are those moral and
intellectual aspirations after immortality which
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
54 PHYSICAL THEORY
have been considered good presumptive proofs
of the reality of a future life.*
* The author would be very slow to seek support to an argument,
such as the one now in hand, from scriptural expressions which,
probably, ought to he interpreted in a spiritual sense only; he will
therefore merely name the often quoted passage (Isaiah xl. 31,) as
possibly having a secondary reference to the future corporeal powers
ofthe sons of God.— They shall renew their strength—they shall
mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weaiy,
they shall walk and not faint.*'
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 55
C H A P T E R IV.
THE SECOND AND THIRD SUPPOSED PREROGA­
TIVES OF THE SPIRITUAL ECONOMY.
T hus far our hypothesis trenches very little
upon the ground of mere conjecture, and it
would be easy to go on in the same direction,
imagining the mind, in its new corporeal lodg­
ment, to gain a power over some other of the
properties of matter, beside the inertia and
gravitation; and that it may be able to put in
activity certain chemical affinities. O f this sup­
posed influence we find what is very nearly an
actual instance, or at the least, an indication, in
the chemical assimilations, and the secreting
functions, which belong to animal life, and which,
if not immediately effected by an unconscious
mental agency, are unquestionably to a great
extent under the indirect influence of the mind,
acting upon them in the way both of accele­
ration and abatement. Animal life, in its various
functions— that mysterious energy which we
name, but can never define, and never expose to
view, may perhaps consist in the power of mind
over such of the properties of matter as may be
Digitized by G o o g l e
56 PHYSICAL THEORY
made available for the special purposes of animal
organization. Mind, incorporate* unconsciously
indeed, but as directed by the creative energy,
combines, or dissolves, takes up or rejects, the
elements with which it comes in contact, and
thus lives, if we might so speak, by its own die-'
cretive act. Now this same power over the1
chemical affinities of matter, may, like the power'
of the mind over masses of matter, be enlarged
in another state. But we leave this conjecture*
and pass on. >
• 1 ^ \
Nothing however can be more natural thspi,
the supposition that the passivity of the mind*
or its consciousness of some of the properties,of
matter through the senses, shall in the futile,
corporeal frame, be made to include other qf
those properties. The mind, as we have already;
observed, is no doubt inherently percipient of
light, heat, sound, solidity, and the several pro­
perties that affect the olfactory and gustatory
organs: for if it were not so, there is little
reason to believe that any organic apparatus—
any expansion of nervous filaments* could endue
it with this faculty. On the same ground we
assume the mind to possess an inherent or essen- ,
tial mechanical force; yet a force that can be
exerted only through the instrumentality of a ,
corporeal structure. But as the several species
of perception are rendered distinct, and are
adapted to the special purposes of animal and
rational life by being separately attached each
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
to its organ of sensation, each of these contriv­
ances, admirable as it is, must be regarded as a
limitation of the general percipient faculty of
the mind, and as restricting it, as well in re­
gard to the extent and the delicacy of its percep­
tions, as to the variety or kinds of them. The
organs of sense are so many adjustments of
nervous sensibility, intended to concentrate the
mind, at different times, upon single properties
of the external world, with a view to the better
securing of particular purposes. The senses are
adits of knowledge ; and because adits, therefore
exclusive and restrictive means of information.
It is upón the retina, and there only, that the
mind converses with light and colours:— it is
within the tympanum, and there only, that the
mind converses with the modulated vibrations of
the air:— it is upon the tongue that it discri­
minates certain chemical differences of the sub­
stances* to be taken into the stomach. But we
cannot suppose that, abstractedly, these several
properties could not affect the mind in any
other mode, or at any other points. Doubt­
less it might bring its percipient faculty into
contact with these properties of matter more at
large and under fewer limitations; and might
also gain acquaintance with other properties than
those to which the five organs of sensation
extend. The medullary substance we may easily
suppose to be laid open to sensation otherwise
than it actually is, and also to be endued with
a more exquisite or refined sensibility. The
57
Digitized by Google
58 PHYSICAL THEORY
discrimination of colours, through the touch, by
the blind, and the many instances that hare
occurred in which the want of one or more of
the senses has been compensated by an enhanced
sensibility of the remaining organs, afford proof
enough, or as we should perhaps say, give
indication, of what may be called the versatility
of the percipient faculty, and establish the feet
that this power is inherently much greater than,
under ordinary circumstances, it seems to be.
The animal organization, with its medullary
mass and nervous expansions, may be regarded,
not merely as a means of sensation, but as a
means of abatement, or as a sheath, defending
the percipient faculty of the mind, except at
certain points, from the too forcible impressions
of the external world. The body, as we suppose,
is to the mind an envelop, or a rough coating,.
which serves to prevent its being either over­
borne, or unduly stimulated by the otherwise
continuous influx of various and powerful
excitements. The mind perhaps, in this its
present initial stage of existence, might scarcely
be able to assert its rational supremacy, or to
exercise its proper, intellectual, and moral func­
tions, if it were exposed to as much sensation as
it is inherently capable of receiving. But in its
next stage of life, and when its active and higher
principles have become mature, it may be well
able to sustain, and advantageously to use, a
much more ample correspondence with the ma­
terial world than would now be good or possible.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 59
The boldest supposition we can entertain, on
this subject, ought not to be regarded as unphi-
losophical or extravagant, while we have proof
before us of those vast extensions of our means
of knowledge that have accrued from the im­
provement of the merely mechanical aids of the
senses» Let the well known facts be simply
stated and duly considered.— The nearest of the
fixed stars is at a greater distance from our
system than IP,200,000,000,000 miles, and the
most remote of those that are distinctly visible
by the telescope, are probably twice that distance,
or much more. Nevertheless the transmission
of light through that incalculable space is exact
and precise; and when, by the means of the
refracting power of some few lenses, the remote
object is made to subtend a larger angle than it
does to the naked eye, then the eye with ease
converses with that object, and perceives that
what seemed one, is actually two stars, and that
these two revolve around a common centre of
gravity; and moreover, that the curve they
move in is not a circle, but an ellipse. This, we
may say, infinitely small difference between one
kind of orbit and another, has actually become
perceptible to the human eye. It is manifest
therefore that, as well the materials of knowledge
as the faculty of knowing, are immensely more
extensive than, to the unassisted senses, they
appear. Now it cannot be deemed extravagant
to suppose that instead of the aid furnished to
the eye by the telescope, the percipient faculty
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
60 • PHYSICAL THEORY
might be so exposed to the emanations o f light
as to be able to distinguish at once; what now it
does distinguish by the aid of refraction. And
if it might do this, who shall say it might not do
still more? Is it philosophical to place a limit
to the range of perception? we think not; and
on the contrary, regard it as altogether a pro*
bable supposition, that the same mind, which
now discerns spheres, and distinguishes their
motions at a distance incalculably remote, may
hereafter be so advantaged, in its organic struc­
ture, as to discern bodies, and persons, and their
movements, on the surfaces of the planets of our
system, near as they are to us comparatively-
If this be a wild hypothesis, it is an hypothesis
like that which assumes that the infant who now
crosses the nursery, may in time, and by the. use
of the very same locomotive powers, perambulate
the globe. The actual discoveries of modern
science are such as to render every thing credible
which can be proved to come within the compass
of abstract analogies.
Whatever is true, or may be made to appear
probable, in relation to vision, may be assumed,
mutatis mutandis, in relation to the other senses;
and it is not needful here to insist upon the par­
ticulars. Our principle is— That Perception is,
at present, a circumscribed faculty; and we con­
fidently anticipate an era when it shall throw off
its confinements, and converse at large with the
material universe, and find itself familiarly at
home in the height and breadth of the heavens.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 61
The five senses, we hare said, may be
regarded as limiting the percipient faculty, not
merely as to the amount or extent of the impres­
sions we receive, but in regard also to the hinds
of sensation which the mind may be inherently
capable of admitting. By the means of these
senses we become acquainted with some few of
the properties of matter; but it is only a few,
and the intimate researches of our modem
physical science leave no room to doubt that
there are many agencies in activity about us,
which, although they make themselves known
in their ultimate consequences, are not directly
cognisable either by the eye, the ear, the touch,
the taste, or the smell. The external world, as
at present perceptible to man, in five species,
may, to other sentient natures be perceptible in
twenty, or in fifty kinds. If the mind may
know the differences of hot and cold, hard and
soft, loud or harsh arid melodious, red and
yellow, sweet and bitter ; it may discriminate
other differences, or qualities that belong to
matter, or every other such quality. In truth
it is more easy to conceive of the mind as con­
versant with all properties of the external world,
than as conversant with some, while it is insen­
sible of others. Mind, as we have said, must
be natively conscious of the vibratory, emanative,
and pungent powers of'the external world; but
if so, then we may assume that it only needs to
be freed from the husk of animal organization,
to know on all sides and perfectly, that which
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
62 PHYSICAL THEORY
now it knows at points only, and in an abated
degree. The ancient philosophy supposed there
to be four elements, or perhaps a fifth; but we
now reckon fifty; in like manner, as now we
think of five species of perception, hereafter
we may become familiar with a hundred, or a
thousand.
Yet this is not all that may fairly be assumed
as probable, and as analogous to pur present
powers— mere conjecture not admitted. The
senses, such as they are under the present animal
organization, in no instance go further than to
give us information concerning the last product
of certain combined qualities or conditions of
matter. Thus for example, we perceive colours,
but we know nothing (by the sense of sight) of
that state of the surfaces of bodies, the effect of
which is that they imbibe some of the elements
of light, and throw off others:— the petals of the
poppy imbibe and assimilate the yellow and the
blue, and with a most decisive antipathy reject
the fierce red of the sun’s rays; while again the
gentle violet cherishes the more powerful ele­
ment of light, and refuses the pale and feeble.
So do the chemical qualities of substances affect
the tongue and palate, and the membranes of the
nose, with a certain product of their combina­
tion ; but this combination itself, and its ingre­
dients, and the reason of its affinity, remain
occult. But it is conceivable that this inner
form of matter, as it has been termed, may,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 63
as well as the external species, be perceptible,
so that the specific cause of solidity, fluidity,
crystallization, decomposition, colour, taste, smell,
musical relation, and other states, movements,
and transitions of matter, may be as immediately
perceptible as are now the ulterior products of
those states. Thus, besides knowing Effects, we
should also know Causes ; or to speak more
correctly, should be able to trace forms and
affinities, a stage or two higher than now we
can. Instead of looking only at the dial plate
of nature, and of noting the hands and the
figures, we should be admitted to inspect the
wheel-work and the springs; and this inner
perception of real forms might well consist with
the simultaneous perception of external species ;
just as our dissection of an animal does not
prevent or supersede our discernment of its form.
The material universe (and the same, with
still more meaning, may be said of the intel­
lectual universe) is a vast profound, upon the
surface of which we float, and of which, by direct
consciousness, we know nothing beyond the sur­
face. Science, with its methods of inference,
carries us a little way beneath the forms and
semblances of things, and only a little. Meantime
we cannot suppose the interior to be, from any
abstract necessity, incognizable by the human
mind. Our knowledge of nature is like our
acquaintance with the globe we inhabit, super­
ficial only ; and the operations of the miner, like
those of the natural philosopher, expose to our
Digitized by G o o g l e
64 PHYSICAL THEORY
view a few fathoms of the depth, but ydt leave
the abyss unexplored. Nevertheless it is assuredly
possible, abstractedly, that the very bowels of our
planet should be inspected by the human eye.
And so we may assume, concerning the inmost
recesses of the mechanism of the material world,
that they might be known by man.
Nor need any jealousy be entertained, as if
this exposure of the secrets of nature Bhould tend
to abate our reverence toward the Creator, dr
breed in the human mind a presumptuous fami­
liarity with the divine operations. It may indeed
be well, and even necessary, while in the present
world, where the Creator himbelf k veiled from
our sight, that an impenetrable veil of mystery
should be thrown over the procedures of his
power and wisdom ; and that so a check should
be given to the audacity of reason, arid ail a*Ve
and modesty imposed upon minds ready enough
to build a tower of pride that shall reach to
heaven. In the path of any such intellectual
arrogance, we meet an impassable obstacle, 're­
sulting from the secresy that attaches to the pro­
cesses and the construction of the material world,
— a secresy such as no means of analysis, how
exact and assiduous soever, can break through.
Our ambition and self-esteem receive here an
effectual rebuff. But it may, and probably will
be otherwise, when we reach a more advanced
stage of our existence, and come where the far
more stupendous mysteries of the divine nature,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 63
and of the spiritual universe, shall begin to unfold
themselves to our view. Then it will be found
that the lower, and comparatively unimportant
wonders of the material world, may be looked at
, with a familiar intuition, and this first page of our
schooling, which now concentrates all our facul­
ties, being folly understood, shall leave us at
leisure to learn a higher lesson.
We ought assuredly to believe that He who
has endowed his rational family with powers
fitting them to comprehend the reason of his
works, and with a disposition to admire what
they understand, will not in the end hide from
them any thing which they might know with
safety and advantage ; and that gradually, as one
special and temporary motive of concealment after
another is superseded, the veil will be drawn aside,
so that what once was inscrutable shall be openly
displayed. These progressive revelations, instead
of inflating intellectual vanity, must tend rather
to inspire an ever-growing awe of the inexhaust­
ible wealth of the Infinite Intelligence ; inas­
much as every such new discovery shall be at­
tended with a new and glimmering perception
of things heretofore not imagined to exist, or so
much as whispered of among even the best in­
formed of the elders of immortality.
F
Digitized by G o o g l e
66 PHYSICAL THEORY
C H A P T E R V.
THE FOURTH OF THESE ADVANTAGES.
The above-named probable extensions of the
physical powers, in the future spiritual body,
have relation to the correspondence of the mind
with the external world ; and some other like
advantages, less clearly supported by analogy,
might be added; but passing any such conjec­
tures, we go on to consider those expansions
or new adjustments of the corporeal structure,
the effect of which would be to confer advantage
upon the mind itself, in relation to the exercise
of its intellectual and moral faculties.
It can hardly be necessary, as a preliminary
to this portion of our hypothesis, to prove that
all the faculties of the mind, even the loftiest of
them, as well as the very purest of the emotions,
are, in their present corporeal lodgement, subject
to much modification, and abatement, and limita­
tion, in consequence of the dependence of the
mind upon the animal organization. In every
mentalprocess,and in everymovement ofthe affec­
tions, there is an attendant organic action—a sub­
sidiary operation of the medullary mass, and of
the arterial system, not to say of the other vital
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
organs ; and inasmuch as this accompaniment is
necessarily clogged with the conditions that
attach to inert matter, the mind is so far bound
down to those conditions, and is restrained from
moving at any other rate than that at which the
body can safely follow, and duly perform its part.
Reason (in man) is not reason absolute, but a
reasoning faculty dependent, to a great extent,
upon, and characterized by the particular cerebral
conformation, and by the constitution or tempera­
ment of the individual. The same manifestly is
true of the purest and most elevated of the moral
sentiments.
Among these intellectual powers, intimately
affected by the original structure, and by the
pathology of the body in each individual, the
memory stands foremost. The memory is, in a
peculiar sense, a function of the brain ; and as
in the admission of images of the external world,
every thing depends upon the sensorium, so like­
wise in the retention and the reproduction of
these ideas, the physical structure, and the actual
condition, or healthy action of the cerebral organ,
determine its power and its activity. The
memory grows with the growth of the body,
strengthens with adolescence, is the contemporary
of animal energy ; and is the first of the mental
powers to betray the incipient decay of the vital
force: the grey head, the impaired sight, the
trembling limb, and the faithless memory, tell
of the advance of years, even while reason, and
F 2
67
Digitized by Google
68 PHYSICAL THEORY
perhaps imagination, scarcely seem to decline*
Again, it is the memory that is the most directly
affected by external injuries of the head, or by
those diseases that spend their violence upon the
brain. It is the memory, moreover, that asks
for and admits of those artificial aids which be­
speak its intimate alliance with corporeal im­
pression. Thus it is that any very peculiar
physical sensation, recurring after a long interval,
brings to our recollection the incidental circum*-
stances and the mental state, at the time of its
first occurrence. Instances of this sort are
various, and have often been adduced, nor can it
be necessary here to relate them.
It is therefore obvious that this organic mental
faculty, as at present possessed even by the most
highly favoured individuals, is susceptible of vast
enhancement and extension, merely by an en­
largement or improvement of the corporeal con­
stitution. In this there is nothing conjectural.
But it may be well to consider what is probably
implied in such an augmentation of the memory.
Let it then be kept in view that, as sensation,
in its several kinds, or the consciousness we have
of the external world, is a specific adaptation of
the inherent power of the mind to perceive the
properties of matter, so is the memory a parti­
cular adaptation of that original and essential
faculty of the mind by which it retains a con­
sciousness of its past states, and knows them to be
past, and to have been real, and clearly distin­
guishes them from simple cogitations. Sensation
Digitized by LjOOQle
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 69
has respect to the particular uses and purposes
of the present animal and intellectual life; and
so likewise the faculty of memory, as now en­
joyed, has respect to the special purposes of our
present condition: so much of it is granted to us
as we actually need, but not more; or at least
by no means all that is abstractedly possible. As
sensation is a limited consciousness of the external
world, so is memory a limited and incidental
recollection of our past states of feeling ; it is a
partial exercise of a larger power, which, in
adapting itself to the occasions of active life,
forfeits, or holds in abeyance, its plenary pre­
rogatives. Considered as a function of the brain,
the; memory retains what it retains, and repro­
duces what it reproduces, according to the law
of an arbitrary, and often accidental connexion
of ideas. The power which in its original capa­
city might fill a broad field, does in fact only beat
a narrow path, and gropes its way backward over
the ground it has traversed, in search of what it
has dropped. Or, to change our comparison,
the memory is a book, the blank leaves of which
are constantly filling, but of which the written
portion never lies outspread before u s; and,
moreover, the paper is of frail texture, and the ink
evanescent, and the entries are often made in such
haste, or so carelessly, that they soon become
totally illegible. The memory furnishes a partial
and fortuitous sample of facts ; but it by no means
(not even in the most eminent instances) exhibits
a complete collection of whatever it has received.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
70 PHYSICAL THEORY *
Yet with all its incompleteness and its frailties
the memory serves sufficiently the ordinary pur­
poses of life, active, intellectual, and moral; nor is
it very difficult to imagine the reasons which may
make even these disparagements a proper part of
our condition in the present state. Perhaps if our
impressions of the past were not in some such
manner abated, and borne down, or obscured and
obliterated, there would in most minds be certain
vivid recollections which would continue to usurp
the entire consciousness, and so exclude the
present, with its fainter sensations, its interests
and duties; and we might thus be liable to long
seasons of abstraction, during which we should
stand like statues amid the urgent affairs of the
passing moment. *Such, in fact, is the misfortune
of a class of morbid minds. But this necessity for
abating the vividness of the memory is temporary
only ; and it is easy to imagine such an enhance­
ment of the active force of the mind, in relation to
the passing moment, as should fully counterpoise
the influence of even the most distinct and vivid
recollection of scenes gone by. Let but the volun­
tary principle be proportionately invigorated, and
then the mind might enjoy a full, permanent, and
bright consciousness of all that it has ever known,
felt, and performed:— it might repossess itself of
its entire past existence, and might thus continue
to enjoy (or to endure) an evergrowing and
plenary recollection of its various successive
states: it might every moment live its whole
life over simultaneously, and with an infallible
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 71
accuracymightbeconscious ofall thecircumstances
and shades of every portion of its being. How­
ever much such a full consciousness of the past
might seem to exceed, in kind as well as in
amount, our present partial and fallacious recol­
lections, it would nevertheless be only the same
power of the mind, set free from physical obstruc­
tions and infirmities.
The memory, even in its present state, and
affected as it is by the conditions of animal life,
might be brought near to the perfection we have
supposed (and in a few recorded instances it has
been) if it were absolutely exempted from the
accidental obstructions arising from a turgid state
of the cerébral vessels— a flaccid state of the cere­
bral substance— a slight compression— a confusion
connected with derangement of the digestive or­
gans, and the like. The spiritual body then, in itself
indestructible and exempt from the liability to ani­
mal decay, may allow the mental faculty to spread
itself out to the fu ll;— or as if an inscription,
which heretofore had been committed to a leaf, or
papyrian scroll, was now transferred to a fair and
ample surface of Parian marble.
Memory, we say, is a corporeal-mental power,
and it is so, not only as physiologically dependent
upon the state of the cerebral mass, but also in a
higher and more intellectual sense, which should
not be lost sight of in relation to our present
argument. Mind, absolutely unembodied, and cut
off from all connexion with the material universe,
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
would not (as w*e have conjectured) retains tke
power of noting the epochs of its existence
or the equal periods of duration. In such an
insulated condition, it is probable, that the entire
consciousness, comprising as well the acts of the
mind, as its passive states, and its emotions, in*
stead of constituting a continuous history, or n
series of changes, the one coming on as the other
recedes, would assume the appearance of a various
aggregate of abstractions, or as if simultaneously
existing, and would be associated with no ideaof
the past and the present; norhe attended with an
anticipation of the future. Whether such a con*
dition of being could consist at all with the exer­
cise of active faculties is not clear ; but it is hard
to think that it would comport with that progres-t
sive development of principles and of character
which belong to the moral life. The moral life-
is, in a peculiar sense— a history : it is >
a pro­
cess, involving successive stages, through .the
course of which the unalterable laws of the spi­
ritual economy are in turn brought to bear upon
the dispositions and conduct of those who are
subject thereto. Take away memory, and we>
annul government, and destroy accountability» • «
Now it is as embodied, and as thereby conver­
sant with material objects, that the mind learns to
arrange its consciousness in a series, or in other
words, exercises memory. For this faculty, al­
though not exclusively conversant with material
objects, yet rarely, if ever, entertains any notions,*
as constituting part of our past history, unless
n
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTH&R LIFE. 73
connected with? things seen, and] heard, and felt.
Pure abstract conceptions may indeed keep their
place in the mind; but whenever the having enter­
tained such conceptions is , it is only
as they may have been accidentally conjoined
with circumstances of place, or company, or with
physical sensations. The memory leans upon
the: material world.
On both these accounts then, that is to say,
first, because it is peculiarly dependent upon the
bodily organization, and secondly, because it is
mainly conversant with images of the external
world, the faculty of memory is one which, with
the highest probability, we may expect to be
greatly extended and improved in a new and
a more refined corporeal structure. The im­
portant consequences of such an extension of
memory it can hardly be necessary to specify.
A rational agent, whatever were his other powers,
who should be totally destitute of memory (if
indeed we can at all form such a conception)
must occupy ,a very low place in the scale of
being; nor could either the vividness of his
momentary impressions,* or the energy or grasp
of his reasoning faculties, in any degree compen­
sate for the want of an intelligent recollection of
his past existence. On the other hand, a being of
inferior original endowments, but yet gifted with
a perfect and invariable consciousness of the
whole of his past course, could hardly fail rapidly
to accumulate intellectual wealth, and to outstrip
Digitized by G o o g l e
74 PHYSICAL THEORY
those of his competitors who were not gifted in
the like manner. After a time such a being
would possess an amount o f consciousness, if we
may so speak, which in itself would be opulence
and power. Man, in the present life, occupies a
middle position, between these two supposed
cases; for his memory, with all its imperfections,
and although it retains, at command, a small
portion only of what is committed to its keeping,
yet retains enough to secure the fruits of ex­
perience and study; and in what it actually
embraces and performs, it gives a promise of far
greater things when it shall be lodged in a corpo­
real structure, liable to no decay or disturbance.
A little steady reflection will open to any one
who pursues the idea, many momentous conse­
quences involved in the supposition of an entire
continuous recollection of our past existence, or
of what might be termed, a plenary memory.
In relation to the maturing of the moral life, it
is this vivid consciousness of the whole series of
our actions and emotions, that is needed for
penetrating the mind with a sense of its own
condition, and for rendering it its own equitable
censor. It is manifest that those' egregiously
false estimates, which we so often entertain of
our own merits, gain entrance by favour of an
oblivion of the most considerable and charac­
teristic portions of our moral life. It is from a
full and incessant recollection of the past, that
are to arise, if at all, and in a due and necessary
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 75
intensity, those strivings of the spirit with itself,
and those compunctious agonies of the heart,
whence improvement may result. The trite
motto on a sun-dial, n
o
sine lumme, m
aptly be transferred to the human conscience, in
relation to memory; and we may believe that
when its full light, unabated and perpetual,
shall be brought to bear upon the soul’s sense of
good and evil, then shall be developed, in its
dread power, the force of the moral principle, as
implanted by God in our bosoms.
The abstract possibility of an entire restoration
of memory, or of the recovery of absolutely the
whole that it has ever contained, need not be
questioned; or if it were, an appeal might be
made to every one’s personal experience ; for we
suppose there are none to whom it has not hap­
pened to have a sudden recollection— a flashing
of some minute and unimportant incident of
early life or childhood; and perhaps after an
interval of forty or sixty years. With some
persons, these unconnected and uncalled for
reminiscences are frequent, and very vivid ; and
they seem to imply that, although the mind may
have lost its command over the entire stores of
memory, and may no longer be able to recall at
will the remote passages of its history, yet that
the memory itself has not really parted with
any of its deposits, but holds them faithfully (if
not obediently) in reserve, against a season when
the whole will be demanded of it. Might not
the human memory be compared to a field of
Digitized by G o o g l e
76 PHYSICAL THEORY
sepulture, thickly stocked with the remains o f
many generations; but of all these thousands
whose dust heaves the surface, a few only are
saved from immediate oblivion upon tablets and
urns; while the many are, at present, utterly
lost to knowledge. Nevertheless each of the
dead has left in that soil an imperishable germ ;
and all, without distinction, shall another day
start up, and claim their dues.
*’ V
.S
>1
Digitized by ^ o o Q ie
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 77
C H A P T E R V I.
THE FIFTH AND SIXTH HYPOTHETICAL PRERO­
GATIVES OF THE SPIRITUAL BODY.
W hat is true of the memory, is true also of
the law of mental suggestion, or the association
of ideas; namely, that it depends, in a very
intimate manner, upon the functions and con­
dition of the brain, and of other vital organs.
The unintermitted current of thought which
constitutes the staple of our consciousness, and
upon which the mind exerts its voluntary power
at intervals, and which it partially controls,
receives its determining guidance, in each mind,
from the peculiarities of the temperament, and
the habits, and the original dispositions. The
reason why such an idea follows such another, in
each mind, is to be sought in the conformation,
and actual condition of each, including very
much that is merely physical, and proper to the
animal organization. And yet this involuntary
and constitutional suggestion of ideas, as is well
known, has a most extensive influence in regu­
lating the operations of the higher and the more
active faculties. The decisions we come to in
common life, the style and subjects of our
Digitized by G o o g l e
78 PHYSICAL THEORY
ordinary conversation, the creations of the ima­
gination, and even the severest processes of the
reasoning faculty, are all modified, and are often
originated, by the arbitrary law of association,
such as it is, in the mind of the individual; and
this again, results in part from the peculiarities
of the animal organization. No one accustomed
to retrace and to analyse, with philosophic cu­
riosity, the stream of his involuntary ideas, can.
have failed to notice the paramount influence of
merely animal sensations over them. Especially
during sleep, when the accidental association of
ideas is entirely freed from the control of reason,
each function of life, and each organ, takes its
turn in the production of images and emotions.
It. seems as if in this movement and succession of
ideas incessantly going on, sleeping and waking,
nature was at work, mingling the heterogeneous
elements of the intellectual and the material
worlds, in preparation for the higher processes of
the rational and moral life : for, in fact, there is
always going on a mental assimilation, or amal­
gamation, wherein the species of the external
universe are being blended with the materials of
reason, and with the emotions. This involuntary
process is a concocting of that upon which the
mind is afterwards to nourish itself.
Throughout the period of infancy and child­
hood, the involuntary suggestion of ideas takes
its course, almost uncontrolled; and it again
flows on at random in seasons of debility, delirium,
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
T)F ANOTHER LIFE. 79
or insanity, and also through the closing years of
senile decay. But the mental and moral ad­
vancement that distinguishes youth andoaanhood,
consists in the gradual (or partial) substitution of
a rational and real, for a fortuitous law of sug­
gestion; or, in other words, of a voluntary,
instead of an involuntary series of thoughts. A
vigorous and mature mind is one in which the
real relations of things, and not their accidental
connexions, bring them forward, and determine
either their continuance, as objects of thought,
or their speedy dismissal. It is easy then to
imagine a state wherein the organic and acci­
dental suggestion of ideas should wholly dis­
appear, and be succeeded by a law of association
purely rational; so that each successive state of
the mind should be the true and just consequence
of its preceding state, and of actual impressions,
and always according to the rule of abstract fitness.
Thus analogy would come in the place of contin­
gency, and truth be substituted for accident.
Constituted as we are at present, the body,
with its ever-varying conditions, with the fumes
of its laboratories, with its appetites and its ills,
sways the mental being; and it is only at inter­
vals that the mind fully asserts its proper su­
premacy. But the future spiritual body, as we
may safely assume, will be the instrument— and
the mere instrument of the mind, and in every
respect will be subordinate to it. That more,
excellent corporeal structure, whether it be dense
or ethereal, whether tangible or not, is not
Digitized by G o o g l e
80 PHYSICAL THEORY
destined to lead the way» or to give law», in any
sense» to the intellect : it will not either suggest
ideas or «rifuse emotions : it will not whisper its
own interests to the soul ; for it will hare none
apart from those of the mind; nor will it steal an
advantage upon reason» to insinuate its desires.
Reason and moral sentiment» in full vigour, .will
pursue their course, and be liable to no .interior
disturbance— to no privy conspiracy-r-to no »silent
and insidious attraction. Our present stas is
one of alternation between the active and passive
faculties, the latter chiefly prevailing; but the
future being will, as we suppose, be active 9xdy,
and always so. The human mind npw may <
b
e
compared to a lake among the mountains ex­
posed to gusts and eddies from every rafyinp,,that
opens upon its margin ; and troubled too ¡byg ig ­
gling springs from beneath. But the salacimind,
in its future state, may more resemble a rjiyer,
profound and copious, which, with ,a., steady
movement, pursues its way in one direction* and
with a force that clears ¡aU obstadeg, and bears
along whatever floats on ite surface.
t
The supposition we are now entertaining de­
serves a little further consideration. T h a t.the
mind is itself inert, or is disposed to subside into
a state of torpor, is what we should be slow to
believe ; and it is better to attribute its apparent
sluggishness to its connexion with animal organi­
zation than to think it inherently inactive. It js
certain that no intellectual process can be carried
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 81
on fcpart from a concurrent evolution of the
cerebral organ, which of course,* because it
belongs to the animal structure, can be sustained
only for a time, and soon generates fatigue, and
sense of pain. Thinking, therefore, like every
other voluntary animal function, has its brief
period of excitement, and its consequent season
of exhaustion. Thus the mind is subject to
lassitude, because it cannot act except with the
consent/ and by the aid of the body, which is
essentially inert, and which demands stimulants
to move it at all. Perpetual mental activity
therefore is not possible in the present state.
’But now let it be supposed, and the supposition
implies very little that is purely conjectural,
either that the future spiritual body, as more
refined, and less, if at all, dependent upon
stitniilants, shall perform its office in the mental
processes without any sense of exhaustion;
or, (and this is equally easy to imagine, and it is
consistent too with some actual facts,) that the
corporeal part ofmental operations shall beeffected
in a manner analogous to the mechanism of the
involuntary animal functions, such as the pulsation
of the heart and arteries, the peristaltic motion
of the intestines (the respiration), digestion, and
the several secretions, all which go on with con­
tinuous regularity, and are not attended by any
conscious effort, nor produce any fatigue. A
small change, perhaps," in the arrangement of
parts, and in the functions of the brain, might
suffice for effecting this important enhancement of
G
Digitized by G o o g l e
82 PHYSICAL THEORY
our mental economy. Thus it is but the opening,
or the keeping open, of a foramen between the
right and left auricle of the heart, that enables
an animal or man to live without incessant respi­
ration ; and thus too, as we may fairly conjec­
ture, the branching off of nerves higher or lower
from the brain, or the altered location of some
cerebral gland, might, even in the present animal
body, allow of perpetual intellectual activity,
without exhaustion, and without any conscious
effort. But how vast would be the power so
obtained! The mind, in some such manner
advantaged, and set free from the chain that
forbids it to move faster, or further at a time
than the pulpy substance, which fills the cranium,
can bear, would instantly assume its proper and
its essential vitality, and would work, day and
night, regardless of rest. Under the present
constitution of human nature, the mind might
be compared to an Arabian escort, attending a
caravan, which, with its cumbrous bales, and its
sick and infirm, drags its weary length a stage or
so daily ; but only release this escort from its
charge, and it starts off, nor can hardly the winds
overtake it.
A change, such as this, in our mental economy
would not merely augment, incalculably, the
mind’s power and its means of advancement, and
accelerate its operations; but would exclude,
perhaps entirely, the many illusions, humiliations,
and false judgments that steal upon it, like a
thief in the night, during its seasons of inertness.
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 83
Such a new conformation of the corporeal-mental
system, by allowing to the mind its essential and
constant activity, would leave no room for that
fortuitous suggestion of ideas which now comes
into play in the alternations of mental activity.
The involuntary series of ideas would cede to
voluntary and rational conceptions; and how
much of the fatuity and caprice that attach to
human conduct, would be shut out, merely by
this substitution I Not indeed that the supposed
change would of itself render men wise and vir­
tuous ; but it would at least enable the wise and
the virtuous to hold on their course with a more
even consistency. Under such an economy, it is
probable that the good would be much better
than now they are, and the bad much worse ; we
may therefore readily surmise the reason of the
aetuaL constitution of human nature, in this
behalf, as fitting mankind for a state wherein
neither good nor evil is to reach an absolute and
unmixed perfection. Were such a lusus naturae,
possible, as that a human being should be born
in whose brain the mental process, instead of
being connected with that portion of the organ
which acts by occasional incitements, should
attach to that portion which keeps the involun­
tary functions of life in movement— such a man
(ought we to call him monster or seraph ?) would,
if otherwise eminently endowed, reach, in early
life, the acmi which other men do not attain till
life begins to wane, and in the first years of
g 2
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
84 PHYSICAL THEORY
manhood would be master of all sciences— teacher
of all wisdom, and director of all affairs.
Those who addict themselves to the steady
pursuit of truth, in any line of thought, are well
aware of the disturbance, and the disappoint­
ment, that arise, notwithstanding the utmost
efforts to the contrary, first, from the incessant
intermixture of ideas foreign to the subject of
which the mind is labouring to make itself
master, and which irrelevant ideas take their
rise from the principle of association ; and then
secondly, from the mere spending of the force
of the mind, that is to say of its organic force,
just at the moment when abstract notions are
coming into a position of intelligible relation,
and when their correspondence is about to be
perceived. The same process, taken u p f at
another time, is not found to present *precisely
the same elements, or not in precisely the same
proportions; the results therefore differ in the
issue, by a little ; and so we fail of the satisfac­
tion of ascertaining truth. In such instances it
is as if the furnace of the chemist, upon the con­
tinued intensity of which the success of a difficult
experiment wholly depends, were supplied only
with a niggard allowance of fuel, which is almost
always burnt out before the ingredients in the
crucible are completely assimilated.
And it is thus too that argument, orally con­
ducted, almost always fails of a useful result,
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 85
«ven where there are no motives of prejudice,
interest, or personal feeling to pervert the judg­
ments of the disputants. One of the parties in
the controversy (and perhaps both) is thrown
out of his track, at almost every step, by the
frivolous and fortuitous suggestions that spring
from sounds, terms, and allusions; and his oppo­
nent, weary of bringing him back to the line, or
taking advantage of his erratic course, abandons
the question, and thinks only of triumphing in
the personal combat. Or, as frequently happens,
even if the antagonists are equally sincere in
their pursuit of truth, and pretty evenly matched
too in intellectual power, yet the organic power
of the one fails much sooner than that of the
other; and the more infirm party, to conceal
his conscious exhaustion, and to Cover his retreat,
betakes himself to sophistry and evasion.
In fact, it is only on the ground of mathema­
tical science, where the steps of every process of
reasoning may be infallibly recorded, so that the
whole can be taken up and laid down, without
damage, at different times, that the disadvantages
we have specified may be warded off.
A gain ; and to come to our sixth supposed
prerogative of the spiritual body; the mental
power, both in its extent and in its kind, depends
very much upon the ability (possessed by one
mind in a far greater degree than by another)
of carrying on several operations simultaneously.
In truth there are certain difficult complex
Digitized by G o o g l e
86 PHYSICAL THEORY
speculations which can be pursued only by the
few who possess this peculiar ability in an eminent
degree *
, and here, as in the last-named instance,
a new construction of the corporeal-mental
system may be hypothetically assumed, such as
would at once enhance immensely the intellectual
power. We need not here stay to decide the
preliminary question, whether the power of the
mind to carry on several operations simulta­
neously, is apparent only, or is actual and real;—
that is to say, whether, in a strict sense, the
mind be capable of any complex acts, or only
applies itself, with inconceivable rapidity, in turns
to different objects, so as to seem to attend to
several at once. This obscure question we may
leave in the rear, and take up, as quite sufficient
for our present purpose, the plain fact, loosely
stated, that the human mind does, without con­
scious difficulty, carry on two, three, or more
operations within one and the same mental
period. Thus, for example, there are few who
cannot with ease read aloud, and read with due
care and emphasis, while a train of thought,
wholly unconnected with the subject of the book,
is entertained. Or a conversation may be carried
on with our neighbour, on the right hand, in
company, while we attentively listen to that
whieh is passing between those on our left. O r
a piece of music, of difficult execution, is per­
formed, and at the same time schemes are medi­
tated, or powerful emotions indulged. By the
means of this faculty extemporary speakers not
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 87
only deliver themselves with propriety and
energy» while the subsequent portions of their
argument are being digested and arranged » but
note» and turn to their advantage» the varying
emotions of their auditors» nor lose a smile, a
frown, or a sneer, that shows itself on the sea of
f$oes before them.
Now this power, actually possessed and ex­
ercised by man in the present state, whether
it be precisely what it seems or not, may easily
be,conceived of as augmented, and as enlarged
in its compass, ,when the same mind comes to be
lodged in a body that has more appliancy, and a
higher finish. And yet this obvious and pro­
bable enhancement of our power of attention is
not all that may reasonably be looked for, as
likely to result from a more refined corporeal
constitution. Let it be considered then that the
cerebral part of the mental process is, as we have
already said, like every other voluntary operation,
attended with a sense of fatigue, and that it is
followed by lassitude. Thinking therefore, even
in, the most vigorous minds, has its limits and its
seasons; nor are these limits to be overpassed
without injury or peril to the brain. A single
process, or a process that is homogeneous and
simple, may however be carried on more easily,
and longer, than a complex process, or than one
that exercises different faculties, and involves
heterogeneous subjects. Indeed any high degree
of complexity soon brings on a confusion of
ideas, and a collapse of the mental energy. In
Digitized by G o o g l e
88 PHYSICAL THEORY
foot, very Jew minds voluntarily undergo, any
such difficult labours and most make their -choice
of some single object» and addict themselves
thereto in compliance with the natural hertt of
the mind» or with accidental interests, and wisely
turn to the best account the special gifts which
nature may have conferred upon them» whether
of reason, imagination, or moral sentiment. The
habit of simple and single intellectual action sena
fixes itself in a definite form, and men become
mathematicians, logicians, experimenters» poeta,
artists, moralists, and thus learn to entertain
every object of thought in a technical manner.
Hence result those partial apprehensions). of
general truth which limit the advancement of
each mind within narrow bounds: and rhefrce
too comes that division «of labour in the, world
of mind, which although productive of ,advan­
tage on the whole, and in relation to ,ordinary
pursuits, and to some of the secular sciences,
yet bars the advancement of philosophy in its
wider range, and is peculiarly disadvantageous
in its bearing upon the elevated themes of
theology, which because they are in the most
absolute sense universal, are not to be appre­
hended by any single faculty of the mind, but
stand in such a manner related to our entire
intellectual and moral constitution, as that it is
only when every faculty, in harmonious and
simultaneous exercise, is actively engaged upon
them, that they can be really embraced. The
metaphysician, let his analysis of abstract notions
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 89
be: as exact as It ’may, still misapprehends thè
Divine nature, inasmuch as the analytic habit of
his mind, and his peculiar mental conformation,
tend tb exclude or to abate the moral and the
conceptivo faculties ; it is therefore only one set
of relations which he discerns ; and so the poet,
and even thè man of acute moral perception,
alike misapprehend the Supreme Excellence.
On this high and arduous ground we fail, not
merely because the infinite transcends the finite,
bat also because, by inveterate habit, we go on
to divide, and to distribute, and classify that,
the very essence òf which is, that it is indivisible
hnd o n e.
Büt inasmuch as the human mind, even now,
goes'some way (when employed úpoii lower and
more common objects) in carrying on diverse
operations simultaneously, it is very credible
that, in the future spiritual body, this power,
depending, as it appears to do, upon the corporeal
structure, should be greatly extended. And this
extension may take place either merely by a
higher degree of refinement in the corporeal-
mental mechanism, such as should allow more
activity with less effort ; or else, which is the
preferable supposition, that the mental process,
so far as dependent upon the body, should be
placed in analogy with the involuntary animal
functions, and so be free to move on without
expending the organic force. In either case the
mind, feeling itself released from a confinement
Digitized by G o o g l e
90 PHYSICAL THEORY
that had heretofore impeded its progress, would
at once bring the complement of its faculties to
bear upon whatever engaged i t :— it would hence­
forward fill out its circle of thought and emotion,
instead of passing from part to part, and of
relinquishing one while it grasps another. The
mind thus advantaged, would combine itself with
every element of knowledge and feeling; and
while having more to do with synthesis than
with analysis (which at present, from the limita­
tion of its faculty, it chiefly affects) it would, not
the less, discern in their distinctions whatever
really differs in nature. The mind thus set at
large, would probably lay aside entirely its habit
of attending to things by turns, or in succession,
or as if it were traversing a line, and would, if we
might use the figure, bring a broad percipient sur^
face into contact with broad surfaces, and would
act and feel at all points at once. It must be in
some such manner, if ever, that the human mind
will attain a comprehensive knowledge of the
highest and most momentous truths:— it is thus,
if at all, that it will become qualified to reason
satisfactorily concerning the principles of the
divine government; and thus, if ever, that instead
of building up and pulling down, with a fruitless
iteration, its systems of theology, because some­
thing essential is always found to have been
omitted, that it shall build, and bind what it
builds, and so make some real progress in know­
ing the Infinite Perfection.
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 91
C H A P T E R V II.
THE SEVENTH PROBABLE ADVANTAGE OF THE
FUTURE LIFE.
T here is yet a mental advantage, highly
desirable, in itself, although but moderately en­
joyed at present by the human mind ; and it is
one which may reasonably be anticipated as likely
to accrue from a more entire subserviency of the
corporeal economy to the intellect. What we
mean is, an intuitive perception of abstract
truths* even of a complicated kind; and whether
they be mathematical or metaphysical.
There is, we grant, an intense gratification,
and a credit too, resulting from the successful,
though laborious prosecution of abstruse prin­
ciples, through circuitous and intricate paths;
and if we were to adduce, as a signal example,
the process of reasoning which has brought our
modern astronomy to its present state, and if we
think of the steady resolution, as well as grasp
of mind, and the intrepidity which have been
brought to bear upon the subject, a just exulta­
tion on account of the powers of the human un­
derstanding may be felt; and we might be almost
ready to decline any imagined advantage, such as
Digitized by G o o g l e
92 PHYSICAL THEORY
should supersede these arduous and elevating-
labours. Nevertheless it must be confessed that
inasmuch as it is truth, and nothing else, which is
the ultimate object of philosophic reasoning, and,
as it is the result rather than the process for the
sake of which so much labour is undergone, a
direct or immediate mode of attaining any truth,
cannot be otherwise than preferable to a cir­
cuitous one. The illustrious men who have
earned immortal fame on the field of modern
science, would unquestionably, any of them, have
gladly forgone their individual reputation in
exchange for a natural faculty of discerning* in­
stantaneously, the entire chain of relations which,
in fact, it cost them the labour of their liveà to
demonstrate. The traveller prides himself Upon
his achievement who, at the jeopardy of his life,
and with incredible efforts, has climbed a peak of
the Andes : but would not that same adventurer
relinquish the credit he has so won, if, instead of
it, he might take the wings of the eagle, and
hover at liberty and leisure above the snowy
summits ?
In a mathematical or a metaphysical propo­
sition it is affirmed, that two or more quantities,
or beings, or conditions of being, though dis­
similar in form, or expression, are equal, or are
identical; or that they bear such and such a rela­
tion, the one to the other. The subsequent process
of reasoning, which establishes or exhibits this
affirmed equality, or this identity, consists in
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
nothing but in tracing and naming, one by one,
all those intermediate relations, each of which is
so simple or obvious that it may instantly be per­
ceived, and will certainly be assented to. But
there is always room for some considerable
diversity of method in presenting such demon­
strations; and this diversity has respect to the
acquirements, the intellectual habits, and the
native powers of the minds to which they are to
be addressed; for while in dealing with one mind,
it may be necessary to insist, slowly and patiently,
upon every intermediate step, and tp express in
form the very simplest relations, with other minds
any such minuteness would be both superfluous
and repttlsive; inasmuch as these more accom­
plished minds are well able to take in at a glance
a wide range of related truths, and are accus­
tomed, with safety and assurance, to advance by
leaps or great strides, where the less expert must
grope their way. It actually belongs then to the
human mind to discern intricate and remote
relations: yet this can be done, even by the
strongest minds, only within certain limits.
There are, moreover, very many abstract re­
lations, such that, with our present faculties we
fail to trace them at all, in a direct manner;
and they become known to us only by an infe­
rence, drawn from the absurdity of admitting
any contrary supposition* In fact a considerable
portion of our abstract sciences stands under
this condition, and is assented to, rather be­
cause the denial of it involves some impossibility,
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 93
Digitized by Google
94 PHYSICAL THEORY
than because the truth itself can be brought
to stand out in our view. The rednctio mi
abaurdum, how useful soever it may be* and
indeed necessary with our present limited facul­
ties, is a method of reasoning that would never
be resorted to by minds enjoying a wider range
of thought; and the use of it may be taken as a
sure indication of the confinement and imper­
fection of our intellectual faculties.
Those who, either from an original perspica­
city, or as the fruit of an acquired facility,: are
able to grasp complicated abstract relations, may
be supposed to do so by the means of an uncon­
scious rapidity in running through all the inter­
mediate relations; or perhaps, and this seems
the more probable supposition, it is by a peculiar
power of discerning, at once, what may be called
the entire nature of the subject, with aU Us
relations, so that the particular truth affirmed in
any one proposition concerning that nature^
stands out clearly as a necessary part of the
whole, or as plainly involved in some mom
comprehensive proposition. Now this ability,'
whether it consist in the power to pass in an
instant along a chain of truths, or in the* faculty
of grasping truth in its universal and most
abstract forms, does in fact belong to some,
if not to all human minds; and when we come
to ask what it is which prevents inferior intel­
lects from exercising this power in any sensible
degree, and what it is which puts a limit to the
power, even in the most highly gifted minds, we
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 95
shall be ledto believe that the limitation arisesfrom
the condition of the cerebral structure, or from its
pathological state, and that it consists in some or*
ganic confinement, or stricture, or sluggishness of
the brain* That the cause of this difference between
one mind and another is corporeal, may reason­
ably be inferred from the fret, that those varia­
tions of power of which every one is conscious
in himself, spring, from the state of the brain, as
when, from circumstances unquestionably of a
physical kind, such as the condition of the
general health, or the state of the atmosphere,
or the influence of stimulants, or the condition
of the stomach, the ability to grasp abstract
truths, is very greatly enlarged, or is as much
contracted. No one mind, it is true, can be
made conscious of the individual facilities, or of
the difficulties that attach to another; neverthe­
less each may scrutinize the variations that affect
itself, and may, with some degree of distinctness
and certainty, trace the operation of whatever
affects the body, in depressing or elevating the
intellectual vigour. Thus analysing our personal
consciousness, and taking our happiest moments
as a gauge of the original power of the mind (for
no man ever outstretches his actual powers) we
may feel a strong persuasion that what is needed
is only to be still a little more disengaged from
organic imperfections and impediments, in order
to our being able to seize, as by intuition, the
most remote and intricate abstract truths. The
conjecture then is hazarded, and its reason-
Digitized by G o o g l e
ablen&ss is referred to those who jure addicted
the pursuit of abstract science, that a corporo#!-
roental constitution, either more refined than the
present animal organization, or entirely disen­
gaged from the organic mechanism of vessel
circulating fluids, and secretions, would adfvgt
with ease of the intuition of principles,, now
ascertained by laborious calculations, op by diffi­
cult and indirect processes of reasoning, . r
>
- i t
It seems safe to affirm, in rotation tfc wfea&fnay
be abstractedly possible to the buuiafe rated,
whatever it has at any time aduaUy acfcfeiftd,
under extraordinarily favourable ctecumMaples,
or whatever effort it may, for a few ^Oj
only, have sustained, the same (to say no^mojft)
it might at all times perform, and uteghfc conMutfe
to perform, if it were but lexoi&pted fivM fthofle
causes of embarrassment and exhau&tionwhiqh
are felt to arise from the irop€drftcti<^>to£j.^
animal organization. If indeed> Wa are ¡calftf-
lating, in any instance, whafe it m y foirlynbe
expected that men, as they are, will achieve«<^e
must reckon only upon the average amottte rof
their powers— bodily or metital. But ift the
question be — What might the human mind
achieve, set free from the infirmities and, dispa­
ragements that attach to individuals, then itds
not the actual average that is to be regarded;
but the actual maximum; and the rarest;.^!
most admirable performances of the favefturqd
few, who have far outdone their competitor?,
96 PHYSICAL THEORY
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 97
tobe assumed as the measure of the abstract
powers of the human intellect. And even this
measure ought to be regarded as probably too
low, inasmuch as there is reason to suppose that
the most vigorous and the clearest human mind
still labours under some considerable disadvan­
tages of a corporeal kind, and would be capable
of far more, were it wholly exempted from all
the obstructions and obscurities that attach to
the animal brain.
Now there are well authenticated instances
(and that of Newton, often mentioned, is enough
for our argument) of the possession, to a great
extent, of the power we are speaking of, namely,
the ability to discern, at once, and without proof,
the remote relations of number and figure.
Something of this sort comes within the reach of
most minds, addicted, by original taste, to mathe­
matical science. Such, on frequent occasions,
step forward beyond the formal process insti­
tuted to exclude any affirmation contrary to the
one set forth in the theorem; and in a moment
’perceive that this theorem is only a special
statement of some more universal truth, which
truth is intuitively known.•
• What then would be the consequences, and
what the practical value of such an emancipation
of the intellect from the trammels of calculation
and the subtilties of logic? With a view to
finding a reply to this question, it must be kept
in mind that the reasoning faculty is in itself
H
Digitized by G o o g l e
98 PHYSICAL THEORY
nothing more than an installment— a means to
an end— a power, subordinate to higher pur­
poses : it is for the truth’s sake, and nothing
else (if the mind be ingenuous) that we reason
or calculate. The necessity we find ourselves
under, at any time, of putting this engine in
operation, and of keeping it in play through the
course of a long and difficult process, cannot in
itself, be deemed a perfection. It is indeed well
that we possess such a power, and that we are
able at any cost, to ascertain remote and abstruse
truths; but surely, no one would refuse to
accept the same results, obtained in a readier
manner. We do not construct steam engines
for the sake of working them ; but for producing
the accommodations of life; nor would a furnace
be kindled were we permitted to wield the5
magi­
cian’s wand, and at will to surround ourselves
with every luxury.
As it is, we have time, in the present life, to
do little more, in relation to abstract truths, than
just to find them ou t; or at most, to apply them
to some few practical purposes. But let it be
assumed that, in another stage of our existence,
we shall be freed from the operose methods of
calculation and reasoning, and be endowed with
the power of intuitively perceiving all the pro­
perties and conditions, as well of mathematical as
of metaphysical entities:— the mind, not made
indolent by this advantage, would start forward,
as from an advanced position, and move on with
rapidity toward new and higher ground. Master
OF ANOTHER JLIFE. 99
of all actual and possible relations, affecting
space, time, matter, number, and abstract being;
•
— relations it could not consent to leave unknown
in the rear, the mind would proceed to inquire
concerning the perfections of the Infinite Nature,
toward which (there is no doubt) all virtuous
intelligences must be tending with an irresis­
tible impulse when once it is directly opened to
their meditations. In the present world we
pursue the inferior order of abstract truths,
because these comprise the only species of abso­
lute perfection that comes within our range ; but
when a still higher, and a vastly higher and more
excellent species of truth— truth combining all
intrinsic attractions, and all practical inferences,
shall invite our inquiry, then must it take the
supremacy that belongs to i t ; and we shall feel
thei advantage of being able to dismiss, as fami­
liarly understood or discerned, all inferior
principles.
h 2
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
100 PHYSICAL THEORY
C H A P T E R V III. , ...
*] . . r
THE EIGHTH PREROGATIVE, ACCORDING, TO OÜR
HYPOTHESIS, OF SPIRITUAL CORPOREITY.
Â social economy, with all its happy and its
momentous consequences, and apart from which
scarcely a half of human nature could be brought
into action— a social economy demands a t onde
a power of individual privacy, and a faculty! of
communication. The corporeal lodgement of the
mind, fencing it from intrusion, provides» as .we
have assumed, for the first of these:purposes«;
and in doing so, that is to say, in preventing
what might be called, the immediate co n ta cts
minds, or their free intermixture, reduces them
to the necessity (at least in the present state) ;of
employing some system of external notices: of
thought ; or, as they are termed, signs, whether
representative and real, or arbitrary, as language.
Nor is language important to us merely in our
social relations ; for although it can hardly be
supposed that a mind absolutely insulated would,
in its solitude, have originated language, or could
have distinctly felt the want of a means of ex­
pression, nevertheless, as language has actually
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OF AiN'OTHEtt LIFEj 101
become a part of our intellectual constitution, the
use of it exerts an influence over the whole of
our mental operations; and while it facilitates
them, in one sense, does also in another, impede
and limit the play of our faculties *
, and especially
of the highest of those faculties. The constant
presence of words in the mind slackens its
curiosity, by leading it to believe that it knows
what in fact it does not know ; and it renders
also its perception of all abstract truths obtuse
and confused, in so far as the rude symbol of
each idea is taken in the stead of the idea itself,
and carries with it its concretions— its excess,
and its defect, and its accidental associations.
The substitution therefore of some new and more
diredt, or realmeans of communication between
mind1sind*mind, would not merely place the social
economy on a more sure, elevated, and happy
ground ; but would, by its indirect consequences,
involve very important advantages to the mind
in its own operations. Every thing would come
before us as fresh, and real, and substantial, if
our imperfect and artificial symbols were dis­
placed by a means of expression essentially true
and perfect.
Language belongs, in the first instance, to the
ear, and is afterwards, by a transfer of associations,
conveyed to the eye. Nevertheless, when once
the written _and visible system of symbols has
become as familiar to the mind as the audible
symbols are, the one connects itself with its asso­
ciated ideas quite as rapidly and as directly as do
1Q2 PHYSICAL THEORY
the others ; nor do we, in reading« attain the
meaning of the words circuitously« by first think­
ing of the sound for which they stand« and then
of the meaning of that sound. The two species
of symbols« therefore, the visible and the audible,
are to be regarded as on a level when presented
to the mind, though not entirely so when lan­
guage is mentally employed, as a vehicle or
medium of cogitation, for when so used, it is
the sound, rather than the written sign, that is
thought of. On account of this difference iwe
must at present be understood to speak of lan­
guage oral and audible. ;>
Language, consisting as it does of arbitrary
signs, is manifestly a rudiment of the material
system ; it is a fruit and consequence of our
corporeity, and might, with some propriety^ be
designated as the point of contact, where mind
and matter artificially, yet most intimately blend«
and reciprocate their respective properties ; the
first— namely mind, imparting to the modula­
tions of sound several hundred thousand distinc­
tions, which nothing less than the boundless
refinements of its own conceptions, could, to such
an extent, multiply and fix : while, on the other
hand, the second, namely matter, imposes upon
the first its own limitations, and generates innu­
merable errors, consequent upon its essential
rudeness, and its inferiority, or imparity, as re­
lated to the mind.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 103
Every machine and every instrument is an
adaptation of some existing power, or principle,
conferring upon the intelligence that has devised,
and that employs it, a special advantage, in carry­
ing on some operation which otherwise would be
barely piacticable, or not at all so. But whether
Or not the particular work so performed could be
achieved without the instrument, still the mind
which invents and employs it, is always immea­
surably superior to its instrument; and whatever
refinement of workmanship, or intricacy of con­
struction may belong to the latter, both are less
than the skill and intelligence whence they pro­
ceed; and less too than the bodily powers to
which they render aid. What is the •staff or the
haminer to the hand and arm that wield them ?
what the tens or telescope to the eye ?— or again,
to the mind that reasons on the facts they dis­
close; or What the sculptors chisel to the taste
and skill that direct it?— or what the lyre and its
chords to the soul of melody that trembles on the
fingers of the performer? Now of all the in­
struments or the artificial combinations which man
employs, there is not one at all to be compared
with language;— there is not one nearly so elabo­
rate in its construction, or so copious in its mate­
rials, or so nice and appliant in its evolutions.
The vocabulary of a highly civilized people, as
that of the Greeks, Romans, Italians, Germans,
English, including the inflections employed in its
combinations, and including also technical terms,
andproper names, must, atan average, be estimated
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
104 PHYSICAL THEORY
as comprising1
two hundred thousand distmgutah*
able arbitrary signs ; and a large proportion of
these Jare susceptible/ in construction, x>t very
many variations of meaning, so as in fact:nearly
to double the number of sounds to .which distinct
ideas are attached. And yet this vast apparatus]
taken in its most refined form, is fcoadsfo
relation to the occasions of the mind/jtorha
scanty, rude, impliable, inexact and poor ;— it is
nothing better than a material machinery ; but
matter falls vastly short of being commensurable
with mind. Whether regarded as the instrument
of silent and solitary thought, or as the medium
of communication between miad and mind, lan­
guage proves itself so inadequate to some of the
purposes to which it is applied, as to forbid the
hope that those sciences will ever reach a per­
manent and indisputable state, which depend
upon it as their only means of expression.
Mathematical truth, happily, has formed tor ,itself
a language adequate to its purposes; a language
real, and liable to no ambiguity or variation $ hut
then this is because mathematical science is conve?r
isantwith the properties ofmatter, and its relation?$
and therefore the instrument of its conveyance
being homogeneous, is sufficient. But how £?r
otherwise is it when we have to do, either with
metaphysical abstractions, or with the heights, and
depths, and refinements, of the human passions
and affections! On this ground how does it
want compass, certitude, nicety, power! Lan­
guage well and truly conveys all those notions
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 105
tliafcj u
r
Qi
ts ‘own creatures* or that are -more
inodifted by it, than thley modify the«
medium of
their expression; After having vulgarized and
enfeebled our conceptions and our sentiments*
language then sufficiently represents and recom­
bines what it has first reduced to its own level.
Meanwhile every profoundly empassioned and
§ehsifivdmind, and every mind accustomed to
hold language in abeyance, during its processes
iff*Analysis and abstraction, is vividly, and even
paitfftilly conscious of the inferiority of any actual
ifledftflri Of expression that is at its command*
lil ^he5recesses of the human soul there is a
World of thought which, for the want of deter­
minate and fit symbols, never assumes any fixed
such sis might beneficially constitute a part
o f the intellectual and moral wealth, or augment
tate<pdgd6ta'&ftd virtue ofthe man.
,11- *
•
; e m: • •,
'* O r *if We needed another sort of illustration of
the vast superiority of the mind, as measured
hgainst its instrument *of expression, we might
refer to the facility with which three, five, or even
-ten or twelve different sets of symbols are held
in Readiness, arid used, almost indifferently, for
the conveyance of thought. What a proof is this
of the grasp, and of the elasticity, and of the
master power of mind, that it con, with a sove­
reign ease, and just as a man lays down one tool,
and takes up another* so lay down and take up at
pleasure this or that voluminous machinery of
signs! Let it be supposed that each language of
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
106 PHYSICAL THEORY
fire, familiarly commanded by any one, com­
prises not more than twenty-five thousand words
(including inflections) then does the mind hold
each of these sets of signs, with all the special
rules that affect the construction of each, unoon-
founded and distinct, so as in a moment to be
able to detach its passing train of ideas from
one of these systems of signs, and to affix it to
another! Now this wonderful facility in so playing-
with these operose and cumbrous engines, and in
so shifting instantaneously the entire system of
intimate mental associations, is by no means to
be considered barely as a proof of great ability
in the individual, or of the reach of the memory,
but rather as a tacit, yet sure indication of the
immeasurable (not indeed infinite) inherent power
of the human mind, to which such operations
may become so familiar as to be performed
almost without the consciousness of any effort»
O f what then might this same mind be capable,
if furnished with an engine of expression homo*-
geneous with itself, plastic in quality, and com*
mensúrate with its faculties 1
Now there are two suppositions, either of
which may, with some reason, be entertained
relative to the means of communication in a
higher economy; the first of which.is, that in
the stead of a system of signs adapted, as all our
signs are primarily, to sensible objects, and
derived from the material world, and transferred
by figure to things abstract and intellectual, there
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 107
should be constructed a system primarily adapted
to things abstract and intellectual, and drawn
from the world of mind, and therefore strictly
proper to notions of this class, and neither more,
nor fewer, nor other, than those notions are; nor
in any such way convertible as to give rise to
ambiguities of expression, and confusions of
thought. Such a medium of communion, it is
manifest, being the mind’s own creature, and
its commensurate power, would, in all its ap­
plications, both as an engine of cogitation and
as a means of communication, transcend the most
perfect >of our mundane languages, as far as
any one of our languages transcends the mute
signs and awkward grimaces resorted to by men
not understanding each other’s tongue. With
a language of this real kind at command,
and which would be a true reflection of itself—
a just and clear image of thought and emo­
tion— the mind would feel as if the broad light
of day pervaded its inmost recesses, or as if
its very self were repeated in every expression;
the likeness of the mind and soul would be such
as is returned of the person by the most highly
polished mirror; or to adduce the most com­
plete illustration of the advantages of a real
intellectual language, such as we have imagined,
we must again refer to the instance of the
language of mathematical science, which, because
homogeneous with the truths it conveys, is fault­
less, infallible, and liable to no mutations in the
lapse of ages: it is exempt from the caprices of
Digitized by G o o g l e
108 PHYSICAL. THEORY
fashion*: and; superior to the. individual error%
and infirmities of those through whose hands iit
is transmitted. Now a language formed by the
mind for itself, and after it has become fully
nished with abstract ideas, and after the purely,
intellectual part of its circle of notions has gained
a due prevalence over sensible images, sucha.lant
guage, consisting of symbols of abstractions, not
of the symbols of the symbols of those abstractions,
would be to the mind, and to its operations*
what the language of geometry, and' algebra*
and of the modern calculus, is to the truths
thereby conveyed. And the consequence of
employing this homogeneous and perfect medium
would be the superseding of all fluctuating sys­
tems of metaphysics, and theology, and morals,
the exclusion of endless and fruitless altercations
on such subjects, and the gradual accumulation
and consolidation of an absolute philosophy—
metaphysical* theological, and moral.
Our modern <
philosophy, in all branches, has
now been about twenty-five centuries;in: growth]\
and during the last five of these centuries* a solid
and permanent advancement has been made in
all those sciences which command a medium of
expression adapted to their nature, and exempt
from ambiguities and fluctuations. But mean­
while abstract intellectual philosophy (putting
out of the question the general rectification of
sentiments and notions accruing from the in­
fluence of Christianity) remains what and where
it was, in the bright times of Grecian intellb
-
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
OP ANOTHER LIFE. 109
gence. The preliminary 1
work ’ of fixing1 the
sense of terms, and of advancing axioms, has
still to be done anew by every professor of thèse
studies ; and his labour is scarcely completed
before it is broken up and cast aside by his suc­
cessors. This incertitude appears to admit of no
remedy. 1
J
t'ft
The second supposition that offers itself in
relation to the communion of minds, is this,
narhely, that the method of expression by arbi­
trary sigiis should be altogether superseded, and
that in the place of it the mind should be en­
dowed with a power of communication, by a
direct and plenary conveyance of its own state,
at anyi moment, to other minds ; as if the veil of
personal consciousness might, at pleasure, be
drawh aside, had the entire intellectual being
could spread itself out to view. “ If there are
tongues,” says the apostle, “ they shall fail and
it may be intended, not merely that the various
languages of earth shall be exchanged for the
bne language of heaven, but rather that lan­
guage itself, or the use of arbitrary symbols,
shall give place to the convèyance of thought, in
its native state, from mind to mind. The con­
veyance of emotions, by the varying expression
of the countenance, and which is understood as
if instinctively by infants and by animals, gives
us a faint indication at least of a mode of com­
munication much more intuitive and immediate,
than that of language : nor is it very difficult, by
Digitized by î j Oo q le
110 PHYSICAL THEORY
thé àâd of this instance^ to cany forward »
our
conceptions so far as to grasp what we are; now
supposing, namely, an instantaneous* and real
unfolding of the thought and feeling o f one
mind, by an act of its own, to other minds. We
say by an act of its own, for the purposes of
a moral economy, and the preservation of the
individuality of character, seem necessarily to
demand the seclusion of each mind, except so
far as it may spontaneously discover itself. This
seclusion and individuality appears also to 'b e
involved, as we have already remarked, in cor­
poreity. ; ,
* ,11 : - ;,f' \
O f the same kind with the expression of feeling
by the countenance, is the conveyance of the fine
distinctions of thought and emotion by the means
of the modulations of the voice, which in fact
amount to a secondpower9
superadded to the me
conventional value of language* What is conveyed
by emphasis, and still more by tones, often far
surpasses what is contained, or could be con­
tained, in the words as written. This language
of tones is a real language, suffused, if we may
so speak, through the mass of arbitrary signs,
and serving to give them a double force;
it is a vital energy, informing an inert body.
Those who have had much to do with children,
must have observed that they slowly acquire
their knowledge of arbitrary terms, and espe­
cially of abstract phrases, in a great degree, by
the aid of their instinctive apprehension of the
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. in
meaning o f tone^ and of the expressions; of the
countenance. It seems as if this real language
Were ¿implanted in all minds, and being under-
stood without teaching and without induction, is
made the means of acquiring that which can be
known only by instruction and habit. In this
feet have we not an indication of a future means
cf communion, more real, and immediate, and
instinctive, than that of arbitrary symbols? The
intellectual power of music furnishes another,
arid an analogous instance of the conveyance of
emotions, with distinctness and force, by means
more natural than that of conventional signs.
Melody and harmony have a fixed affinity with
the several emotions of our moral constitution;
and they awaken, with unvarying certainty and
precision, this or that sentiment or passion. In
this ing£&nce we have an example of the corpo­
real conveyance of the states of one mind to
other minds, founded upon the original confor­
mation of mind, as combined with matter. And
this mode of communion may easily be conceived
of as much extended and improved.
Whether we prefer the first or the second of
the above named suppositions, the consequences
must be nearly the same; for an arbitrary lan­
guage, if absolutely perfect, and framed from
intellectual, not from material types, would
perhaps fall very little short in accuracy or power,
of an immediate revelation of the inmost mind,
as a mode of intercourse; and in either case, the
interchange of knowledge and feeling would be
Digitized by G o o g l e
112 PHSSiCfti; TWBOfcV
incalculably promoted, and at fch^ sartie time thè
mind, in its solitary operations, would be freed
from the thousand illusions that take their rise
from the ambiguous and impKable languages òf
the present state.
There is, however, a point of difference
between the two suppositions which deserves to
be noticed, and it is this ; that whereas the use of
language, let it be as perfect as it may, makesfit
necessary for the mind to tread always upon *â
single line of thought, at a time/ and to divert
from that line as often as it would give utteraritê
to feelings or ideas of another Species— O
n^thé
contrary, if the mind were able to unveil itself
independently of any medium of expression, ahlHf;
as we have before supposed, a more refined corpo­
real structure should enable it to pursue simulta­
neously, several distinct classes of ideas, then
would the intercourse of minds fill a vastly wider
circle than otherwise it could ; and in fact those
complex truths, and those mixed impressions,
might be conveyed which, on thé very account
of their complexity, are not at all to be com­
municated in their real nature or their full force,
so long as it is necessary to sunder them, and to
dole them out piece-meal. It is easy to under­
stand how happily this advantage must bear upon
the advancement of the junior members of a vast
social economy, in their intercourse with those
who have long ago scaled the heights of divine
philosophy ; for although the infant capacity of
Digitized by G o o g l e
OFANOTBEfllJFE. 118
tile learners (as well as other reasons) might put
limits to the communication of knowledge, yet
whatever it was judged expedient to convey,
might be conveyed in its genuine form ; and
it would be truth entire, although truth in part$
whereas, at present, we learn little if any thing,
and especially in relation to things spiritual, that
is not so conveyed as to give birth to many
errors of apprehension, and so as to authenti­
cate such errors, by intermixture with unques­
tioned truths. Language, or the symbolic
conveyance of thought, is but a melody, sweet
yet simple; but a plenary utterance of the soul,
such;as we have here imagined, would, in comv
parison, be a swelling harmony as of many voices
mid instruments- >
Digitized by G o o g l e
114 PHYSICAL (THEORYt*
C H A P T E R IX . !
THE NINTH POINT OF ADVANTAGE BEMWtfGJNG
TO THE CONTRAST BETWEEN ANIMAI, ORGÀ*
. NIZATION, AND SPIRITUAL LIFE.
; : . . ......
T he present animal body, although justly cohf
sidered as the instrument and, aUxiliaryof tl^e
mind, is very far from being merely stu?h ; but
on the contrary, has its propet interests and, its
peculiar impulses and instincts ; a#d these ¡mè pf
so peremptory a sort as often J# ,p?eymi ifrbB^*
lutely over those of the mind. But now \ye
assume it as probable that the future corporel
structure, whether it be ethereal or palpable,
shall be the instrument of the mind, and no­
thing else, that it shall have no purely organic
welfare to provide for ; and in a word, that it
shall, in the strictest sense, be thé servant of the
intellectual and moral nature; just as the hand,
the foot, or the eye, is the servant of the body.
The serious, and too often fatal disadvantage,
which we undergo in commencing life as animals
merely, and in having ther interests of the animal
nature, consolidated and secured by habits, mid
by powerful impulses, before the higher welfare (
of
the soul, or of the intellect, comes to be thought
of, is a trite subject of fruitless complaint,jand
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE
oño not necessary here to be insisted upon.
This order of things is no doubt unavoidable,
and abstractedly proper to the initial stage of
óur existence ; but it is easy to conceive of a
very different economy, and one that, while it
èhould afford all the benefits derivable from a
corporeal union of mind and matter, would be
exempt from the dangers and degradation thence
Accruing in thè present state.
The animal body is not only mechanically
divisible, ánd destructible and easily injured, but
it is also incessantly preying upon itself ; and it
speedily dissolves, unless sustained by assimila­
tive materials. This liability to dissolution, and
to external violence, necessarily involves keèn
sensibilities,.and powerful appetites; and it also
demands an instinctive dread of death. Now
these various pleasurable sensations and de­
sires, and these sensibilities to pain, and these
instinctive fears, are ordinarily paramount, and
unremitted, and therefore take the lead of evèry
other impulse, and give law to, or virtually over­
rule, the course of life, and to a great extent
boiintervail what, abstractedly, we should say,
was the intention of nature, rendering the ra­
tional faculties and the emotions subordinate to
the preservation and pleasures of the body. Thè
rátional faculty has indeed its tastes» and the
moral faculty has its impulses; but these princi­
ples are neither incessant, nor of absolute and
imperative necessity ; they therefore learn to
give way to that which will not give way. To a
i2
1Í&
Digitized by Google
116 THYSICAJ,, .THEORY
great, extent it mustbegrantedthatthe*
body
servesthesoul, onlyin■orderthat.thesendmay
the more effectively serve thebody!; as¡if «
hruteheldamaninbondage,whomitcompelled
tolendhissuperiorintelligence?andwham;for
its own purposes,itwouldcheerfullyCarry;end
helpatbidding. vi4 k-
Instead of all this, let us imagine a corporeal
frame, indestructible, and indivisible vital without
waste, and therefore needing no pafeukunv
none but such as may be supplied in a manned
analogous to that in which the animal'>
?body1
derives support from the atmosphere,, aadf froitt
light and heat. Such a body would ¡ nebd n^
instinctive dread of dissolution ; »or? would nit
have its cravings, its appetites* . or its /sehéuah
propension; or to say aU in a word; weald*
have no welfare of its own to care for; or to>
assert. Instead of an importunate controversy,
never well adjusted, and never brought to a cbn-
elusion, between body and spirit, theiie would>bep
on the one side, the sheer passivity of atool,or>
engine; and on the other.side, the unchecked'
supremacy of a.superior nature. There would;
be one class of interests only to be thoughtofy
and only one class of occupations to be followed?'
The body, with its complement of poweré, »ftppKii
cable to its congenial element— matter, would bé
to the spirit, precisely what now the senses and)
the muscular system are (whale in a healthy ■
condition) to the animal will. Not only do not
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
the eye^and theear, and the hand, ever Tepug-
nate, or plead for their particular interests; but
they are almost, or entirely, forgotten, while the
diurnal will is eagerly employing them to effect
its purposesi And thus, as we may imagine, the
Spiritual body shall be so purely the instrument
of the master power, that it will barely, if at all,
enter into the consciousness as a separate exist­
ence^: Perhaps beings who have never been
subjected to the conditions of animal life may,
although actually corporeal, need to be informed
of their* corporeity ; or they may know it, rather
by reflection and inference, than by immediate con­
sciousness ; and we may conceive of an insulated
naneiof spiritually embodied beings who, although
really conversant with an external and material
World, woiafld*have recourse to circuitous deduc­
tions, when required to show that any thing
except mihdexisted.
This sort of absolute subordination, or sheer%
instrumentality of the body, is, we say, readily
conceived o f; 7and it is clearly a condition of
being abstractedly possible, and such as may in
fact be now the prerogative of the most exalted
natures. There are however reasons for doubting
whether, in the full sense, as above stated, it is
intended for man, or at least in the next stage or
stages; of his existence; and it is separable from
those other advantages which, in the preceding
pages, we have ventured to assign to the future spi­
ritual body. This body may indeed be immortal,
OF ANOTHER tlflfc. 117
Digitized by G o o g l e
118 PHYSICAL THEORY
•
indivisible, aqid exempt from the necessities o f
aliment and clothing; but in sofaras itis still
assimilated, with the material world, percipient
of the properties of matter, and therefore so fer
passive, the mind, by this alliance, may yet
be susceptible of pleasures, not proper to pure
spirit, and such as may give occasion to the
continued exercise of self-command; and it
may still be bound to use abstinence, and to
cherish nobler counteractive tastes. Then
again, as is quite obvious, whoever, by alliance
with matter, is open to sensitive pleasures, is
likely to be liable, nay, we should say, is
necessarily liable to the suffering of pain, from
exposure to other properties of matter, as for
example, to the intensity of fere. Tins point
well deserves attention; nor is the chain of in­
ferences on .which our reasoning depends, long
or circuitous. Corporeity is, by its definition,
an amalgamation of mind and matter, in conse­
quence of which the former exerts certain powers
over the latter, and in turn becomes passively
conscious of its properties. O f these properties
it is conscious, first in the way of mere distinc­
tion ; and secondly, in the way of gratification, and
of sufferings— of pleasure and pain. Now it is
hardly to be admitted as possible, that a corporeal
structure— the vehicle of mind, should be open
to the one class of sensations, and not to the
other: m fact, the one is often nothing more
than an extreme of excess of the other; and it is
as easy to think of the mind’s being conscious of
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OP ANOTHER LXFEt
light and colours, but unconscious of their
absence and their opposites, or of darkness and
blackness, as of its percipience of sensitive plea-
Sure* while incapable of sensitive pain. It is
ttue t&ot the mind may be removed from the
atitnaloceuston of pain; or it maybe shielded from
it ; but yet it mutt, as we suppose, be essentially
Sable thereto, if it be at all passive in relation to
the properties of matter.
Moreover, as there appears to he a physical
connexion, or necessary correspondence, between
tiie one class of sensations and the other; so like*
wise are we compelled to suppose that there is &
inortü relation between tile two ; or a necessary
connexion; arising* from the constitution of free
and accountable agents. For all tjae analogies
dt present within our reach, tend to confirm the
opinion that those higher and purer motives hi
which virtue, essentially consists, demand, as
their support, the concurrent influence of certain
lower and more cogent motives ;— those namely
which spring* from an abstract liability to corpo­
real misery. And if the mind is to hold con­
verse with matter pleasurably, this accession of:
the means df enjoyment is probably to be.
balanced by such a liabilityto pain as may efiee-.
tively check the too eager pursuit of a lower and
dangerous species of felicity. Is there not reason
in tiie supposition that the two kinds of passivity
are necessary and constant antitheses, the one
d£the other, as well m a moral as in a physical
H i
Digitized by Google
»mrSÏCAL THEORY
a fiitureand higher Stagfe1
of his exiflieiice, is to exalt in the bright-?
ness and beauty of a fair and new creation, Oriff
is to delight himself in contrasts and agrfce-1
mentis of colour, glowing amid a universal dhx¥£
gence, if he is to perceive all sweets and
perfumes, and to be ravished with forms,5
dies, and harmonies, can this corporeal;Wfo^b#
tasted on any other condition than that *dP
being possible for him to endure the anguish Of
fire, the vehemence of frost, the distractioA^Of
discord,the horror of deformity,aftdthe ^dng&tf1
corrosion of acrid poisons? And again, if-the>
most elevated and the purest sort of bOppifie&>
—4hat most properto the spirit, is tobe softOfted1
down, attenuated, blended) by tkking4ife'’ttliW
with pleasures of an inferior bind, OWdifihP'tlife'
manner complex sentiments are tObe^gfetiOraieft*
(which in fact appear necessary to thO^harmow^
of the intellectual life) if this is*to take plhdO^
then must not those who are thiis opento^wh^t*
we must call the seductions of Corporeal edjoy^
raent—must they hot have >
in recdllectioh, a*PW
silent dread, the abstract possibility, atrleasts
merely of moral arid 'intellectual degradation
and a loss of the noblest tastes; but of exprisui*#
to the terrible Wretchedness of continued Odrtf
porealpain? -f
As a leading hint for meditations of this sbrt/
let itbe remembered that no expectations We titW
able to form,on theground of physicalanalogies^
such, for example» as those that haveoCOUpiGd
m
Digitized by Google
Q
W AWTHW fcJUttv 1%1
the preceding pages, oramy otherawhich to^lhe
r^adermay seem more, probable, throw any fight
ifppn,the momentous question, whether in the
Uejft ^tage of our existence we shall find ourselves
Wtffi UAPPY, or less so, than we are at present.
Xh^re, ^re,: indeed, the strongest reasons for
supposing (revelation apart) that human nature
i§. ¡destined to expand its actual powers, and to
occt^py a wider sphere of action and of know­
ledge« than it does in the present state; but then
this future advancement (like some advancements
of the present life) may rather expose us to heavier
cares and pains, than augment our enjoyment,
or secure our peace. The actual condition of
mankind (taken,at large) will by no means
^arrant our confidently assuming that a physical
^4int^l|actnal progressionmustimply an increase
qf happiness and virtue; nor, when the moral
s$ateof adarge proportion, or of the mass of man­
kind is duly considered, can we, on the strength
of /abstract arguments, drawn from the divine
attributes of benevolence and wisdom, deduce
with safety the inference that the millions of our
follow-men are moving forward on the road to
goodness and felicity. On the contrary, appal­
ling facts that force themselves on our reluctant
notice, in relation to the habits, usages, and
propensities of several races of the human
family, wear the most grim and gloomy aspect,
and are such as to suggest forebodings as painful
as the mind can admit. Individually, indeed,
we may entertain a cheerful and rational hope
Digitized by v ^ , o o Q l e
PHYSICAL■THEORY
concerning the future life.; hut then the grounds
of it must be drawn altogether from another
quarter— namely, from the specific inferences e#
our belief as Christians. But to this subject a
little more attention is due, before we advance to
the second portion of our theory of another life*
m
t- 1 • f Tit ■
)
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF*<
ANOTHER)LilE. 188
CHAPTER X*
.*
:’> '•' > '
THE BALANCED PROBABILITY OF HAPPINESS OR
MISERY INVOLVED IN THE PHYSICAL THEORY
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
In reviewing and recapitulating the several
particulars of this first portion of our physical,
theory of another life, it may be well to advert,
for a moment, to each singly, with the view of
showing more in detail, that each of these points
of supposed advantage— each conjectural pre­
rogative of the spiritual body, stands evenly
balanced between happiness and suffering, as a
means of augmenting, indifferently, the one or
the other, as thus:—
By the senses of sight and hearing, by the
excursive power of the imagination, and by the
far-stretching deductions of science, we now taka
mental possession of a vast extent of the visible
world; and the power of actually traversing
the fields of the material universe, we may,
with some show of reason, anticipate, as in­
tended for a being to whom already so much has
been granted. Does it not seem that, at present,
while some of the faculties, corporeal and mental!
greatly exceed otbersm the range or sphere tha$
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
FMYÉflC/ÀL 'fttÉÔRŸ1
is allowed them, there is an incompleteness, or a
want of balance, in our constitution ? We are
tenants of a spacious house; but although we'
have the run of certain apartments, we are only
permitted to look into the halls and the saloon^.
But shall not the restriction in time be removed,
and man find all doors of the palace thrown
open to him? Man, who now possessesrithe'
faculty to comprehend, and the taste to adiftire,
the divine works, shall at length, as we ma^
infer, enjoy the liberty of following the Creator;1
wherever order and beauty are displayed. ’ ‘The'
mind shall find itself competent, corpoiWlly/^b
every labour, and to every adventtire tvliit4t‘its
high rational desires may impel it to atteifipt^
nor, in the mere destitution bf itfecha^hSl;
means, shall it be left to sigh, and
that its noblest ambition is fru&tritO ^
although endowed with a seraph^niht^Sfigl6icd,('
and incited by an insatiate *thirst^bf kboMd^dg^'
and desire of action, it is gifted Only With a loco-'
motive power fit for the brute”thfet grazes ih a’
meadow I The complement Of the human fetiul-*
ties ;shall (may we not confidently say it ?)r
b07kt
length filled Op, and the body' be put in symmetry
with the range of the mind. ; :u <
T
! But then every faculty has its impulse, and,
when repressed, its wrestling uneasiness; and^thiS
species of agony bears proportion to the inherent
extent and the energy of that faculty. A M 1if
now, when the locomotive power ha£ b u ta V ety ’
narrow range; and when the exercise Of1!#,
m
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
although pleasurable at first, very soon produces
fatigue and pain-— if now, we say, corporeal re­
straint and imprisonment be one of the most
intolerable of bodily ills, what shall imprisonment
be.when the; locomotive energy is a thousand
tunes more vehement than at present, and when
the .exercise of it. is attended with no conscious
effcgVand is followed by no lassitude, and when
the ,widest and the fairest fields shall lie before
it? The chain of the captive is galling, just in
proportion, or nearly so, to the captive's animal
vigour and elastic spirit. Let itthen be imagined
that the future man, new bom to his inheritance
o f;absplute paechanical force— the inherent force
of* joipd„ and finding himself able at will to
traverse -all spaces, should, in the very hour
whflrpiu he h
ft®
: made proof of his recent faculty,
be stopped,, either by malignant superior powers,
or by the dread ministers,of justice, and, on
account.of forgotten. misdeeds, be seized, env
chained, incarcerated 1 Might we not, with a
rational consistency, and in conformity with some
of the actual procedures of the present social
system, imagine, for example, the merciless
tyrant who in cold revenge has held the innocent
in his dungeons through long years, or the ruffian
slave dealer, just bursting from the thralls of
mortality, and proudly careering through mid­
heaven ; but only to encounter there some more
fierce and stronger than himself, who, with
mockery showing their warrant from Eternal
Justice, shall grapple with his young vigour, hale
1&5
Digitized by GoogI<
m PHYSICAL' 'fHBORY
him to the abyss,'find theiO a chainstrong enough
to bind him, and rivet him to the rock, where
he is to chafe, and taste the retributive miseries
of captivity, and the fruitless drivings Bind
writhings of a power sufficient, if it werO not
bound, to bear him from star to start Atithfo
is so credible abstractedly, and so readily oaft*
ceived of on the ground of common facts,^that
one can hardly think of it otherwise thon' As
actually true. ‘ ; v''
Many similar conceptions, which* often* break
upon the mind uncalled, and which ¿ven,* when
strictly examined, refuse*to be dismissed as ihere
dreams— many such conceptions which, whether
or not they have their architypfesiin *any ?region
o f the universe, are at least reasonable enough
to answer the purpose of convincing'us that thOse
enhancements of our powers which arfe to be1edl
pected in a future life, may be either the means
o f enjoyment, or the means of misery, according
as our moral condition, and the great rules of
the divine government, shall determine. 1 4:
'' " - r ■ ■ f -V
Or let us take up another sort o f alternative^
•and in order to conceive the more distinctty of the
happy part of it, imagine the instance of a spirit,
which, in the initial period of its existence, has
been secluded from the material universe, and ac-
* quainted only with intellectual abstractions, and
;
With pure moral emotions: such a spirit, already
capable of reflecting upon and of comprehending
the change it is passing through, we suppose
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF,.ANQTHRR UFS.
gradually >
to ».awake to a consciousness of the
properties of matter, one by one: hitherto totally
destitute of ideas and sensations, it is now slowly
born to corporeal existence; it becomes daily
COBSoknw of solidity, and gropes its way along
extended surfaces, and m learning the power of
resistance in these surfaces, it learns its own new
poWer of originating motion, and of traversing
space. »It begins then to grasp the external
world, and seems to itself to have taken posses­
sion o f a foreign nature, and by the aid of the
contrast, thence arising, it comes to think, for the
first time, of its own spiritual nature, as a
d&tittCt being; by the knowledge of (mother
qp&riWj it comprehends and reflects upon its own
$peoiee> which we may suppose to have been ate
Stractedly. impossible so long as one kind of
being only was known. Thus the spirit’s birth
into the world of matter, is almost equivalent,
perhaps quiteso, to a new birth into the world
of mind.
But other sensations follow;in their turn. This
solid extension .with which it has become conver­
sant, is perceived to bn not of uniform quality;
for besides its mechanical properties, its hardness,
Softness, roughness, and weight, it affects the
sensitive faculty by its chemical properties, in
all their variety;— its pungencies, its flavours,
its perfumes; and each new property, as it comes
to be perceived, enlarges the mind’s circle of
conscious existence. Then next the vibrations
pf sound call it to enter a new world and
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
128 PHYSICAL THEORY
melody and harmony, breaking suddenly upon
the soul, cause it to feel as if another spirit had
been added to itself; or as if another being, happy;
empassioned, and ecstatic, had come to be blended
with it, and to double its power of enjoyment*
Recollecting its primitive state of mere intellect
tuality, it now feels itself to be three or five times
more than it then was. But the range of perception
still enlarges, and this mind, in the course of its
birth to the material world, becomes dive to
warmth— genial and pleasurable sense, and yet an
ominous sense also. Has it not now readied the
boundary of sensitive existence ? no, for in the
next instant light breaks in upon it with a sudden
amazement, and the universe with all its beauties
and glories, and its immensity, stands revealed 1
We said, that the first perception of sound and
harmony was as if another rich spirit had been
added to the individual consciousness; but this new
perception of light is nothing less than the having
the individual consciousness, heretofore gathered
about a centre, expanded without a bound, and
made capable of a sort of ubiquity. To see, and in
seeing, to converse with all forms of grace and
grandeur, is to have the life multiplied a million
times; and it is to stretch existence and enjoyment
to the height and width of the universe. Thus
far we have followed the new-born mind to the
limit of sensations actually enjoyed by our­
selves ; but there yet remains all that further
consciousness of the properties, and of the in­
ternal constitution of the material world, which
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 129
Has beyfrnd the reach of the human organs of
sensation — all that which is too subtile, or too
intense, or too te
mote, to be admitted or sus*
tained by the animal brain and nerves ; and this
yet unknown portion of the properties of matter,
not?improbably, vastly exceeds the portion which
animal life allows of our perceiving : and we are
free to suppose when a more refined and an
imperishable corporeity shall be inherited by
man, that then the means of knowledge, and the
faculty of sensitive enjoyment shall be augmented
tenfold ; so that its future new birth into the
material Universe shall quicken and amazè the
human spirit as much as we have imagined the
pure spirit to be awakened and delighted, in
passing from mero abstract intellectual life, to
sensitive life, such as we now actually possess it.
Yet all this inaiiiféstly is only the favourable
side of an alternative ; for our daily experience
tcache» us, that sensations which are pleasurable
within a certain limit, are first uneasy, and then
painful beyond it ; so that agreeable sensation may
be Called the 'delicious initial stage of a process,
the last stage of which, if it comes, is intolerable
anguish» Every species of sensitive enjoyment
needs a stay ; and it is enjoyment so long only as
it is moderated : in other words, the mind, in
becoming conscious of thé properties of matter,
is laid open to the extremes of pleasure and
pain \ and it may endure the one as soon as
enjoy the other : the most thrilling delights
are but the a, b, c, of insupportable torment,
K
Digitized by G o o g l e
180 PHYSICAL THEORY
What, for example, is an extreme case of neu­
ralgia, but a point at the lower limit of the very
scale upon which are marked the nice degrees of
animal felicity ? Only let the inherent sensitive
faculty of the mind be entirely excoriated* if we
might so speak, and itself be turned out Upon
the material world, to feel and to taste, without
abatement, the whole stress of all its properties,
and it must suffer anguish in a thousand modes«
In the present animal body the mind’s sensitive^
ness to light, for instance, is sheathed and re­
stricted: how small is the optic expansion, and
how is this small surface curtained, and provided
with means of seclusion ! The mind converses with
light in a jealous way, and much a# the besieged
hold a parley with the besiegers, whèn the latter
are ten thousand to one of the former; that is
to say, a few of the enemy only are admitted
within the gates at a time. Fully exposed to
the vibrations of light, the mind, even at the
dimmest twilight, would suffer an agon yofex-
citement ; and under the beams of noon must
be maddened with torment. Need we go on to
speak of heat, of which the lowest degrees only
are pleasurable, while a slight augmentation of
its intensity totally vanquishes the fortitude of
ordinary minds ; and none perhaps could retain
self-command longer than a few minutes if left to
feel its extremity. And let it be remembered
that although the animal texture, the muscular
fibre, the nerve, and the vessels, are presently
dissolved, or consumed, by the action of fire,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 181
and ¡so the animal anguish reaches its end* yet
that we assume far too much if we conclude that
the sensitive faculty of the mind is itself liable to
any such dissolution. lire reduces to vapour or
to ashes, that which, by its nature, may exist
indifferently in a solid and organized, or in a
gaseous, or a pulverized form. But is the mind
susceptible of vaporization, or can it be reduced
to powder ? We suppose not, and therefore
believe it might sustain, undestroyed and un­
damaged, the utmost intensity of heat; nor is it
certain that every species of corporeity must
give way, and be dissipated by this element.
There is room for the same statement in
relation to every property of matter, which we
find intensely to effect the sensitive principle;
such as the corrosive poisons ; and perhaps we
owe it* at preisent, to the insensibility of our
animal organization, or to its neutralizing inert­
ness, that the material world does not, in a
thousand modes, affect us as do arsenic and
oxalic acid when taken into the stomach. Enough
we know to be sure, that (apart from considera­
tions of a religious kind) the probabilities of
enhanced pleasure or pain, in coming more fully
into contact with matter and its properties, are
evenly balanced.
Again:— a discernment or intuitive knowledge
of the interior constitution and the occult forms of
the material system, we have named as likely to be
enjoyed when the mind enters upon its state of
K 2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
\ m PHYSICAL THEORY
spiritual corporeity, and we have conjectured th
filfc
this immediate perception of the mechanism of
nature, beside the pleasure it may directly afford,
will involve a higher advantage, inasmuch as, by
disengaging the attention from those physical
truths, which now principally excite curiosity,
and employ the reasoning faculty, it shall send
the mind forward with its insatiable thirst of
knowledge, toward the more excellent and sub­
lime mysteries of the spiritual economy, and of
the divine nature. But then this advantage
demands certain moral conditions in the mind
itself, or it must become the occasion of an en­
hanced misery; and that in two ways; as thus;—
— The pleasures, organic and mental, arising
from objects of sense, are, to a great ex­
tent, as we well know, dependant upon our
being able to keep entire many illusions, and
certain natural exaggerations, which at once
conceal what might awaken disgust, and impart
to these enjoyments a fictitious importance*
A ll gratifications of the senses, and all the
pleasures of taste and all the excitements of
worldly pleasure — all the pride, and all the
pomp of life, demand largely the aid of artificial
lights, and glare, or in plain words, of deception^
to eke out their essential poverty, and to render
them what the mind can, and will, care for.
Every day we stoop to be cheated and delighted
with what we should scorn or loathe, if offered
to us in its naked value. But, by the law of
habit, a long course of exclusive regard to
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 183
illusive gratifications of this sort, brings the mind
into a state in which, at length, it ceases to re-«
collect that an illusion is an illusion — ceases to
reclaim its native superiority, and becomes the
passive victim of the sleights and tricks of worldly
pleasure. The soul is at last smothered in the
trumpery of vulgar and sensual delight. Now
to a mind thus wedded by inveterate habit to all
that is false and unreal, the new faculty of seeing
through forms and semblances, and of keenly
and clearly discerning the unadorned mechanism
Of things material, must at once strip it of its
all, and reduce it to a pitiable destitution. The
gold will no longer shine, the diamond no longer
sparkle; the plumed pomp of rank will be a
nothing— set about with quills; and this plump
world, sleek with delicacies, is at once shrivelled
to'an atrophy ; and the material universe, lately
so gay and blooming to the idolatrous eye of its
devotee, starts to view, as a gaunt skeleton,
barely knit together with its sear sinews.
Or we may look at the natural consequence
of this supposed intuition of the occult construc­
tion of the material system on another side*
The entire nature of things material once seen,
and seen without a shadow of uncertainty, and
all known at a glance which it is the glory of
our physical sciences to discover; and then the
mind, by the necessity of its constitution, is
thrown forward toward higher objects, and its
inherent curiosity is fixed upon the next range
of unknown principles. But what must these
Digitized by G o o g l e
134 physical thI
eory
principles rélate to? Unquestionably they must
involve, if they do not exclusively embrace, thé
awful verities of the Divine Nature. It is these
truths that must stand forward next, after the
material system is understood. And yet, while
this physical necessity of moving forwards impels
the mind irresistibly to approach the Ineffable
Perfection, perhaps its own moral condition; and
its confirmed impure tastes, are of a kind that
would lead it to escape, and to hide itself from
the brightness of Eternal Truth. We may ima­
gine an insufferable conflict, rending the soul
perpetually, and urging it vehemently to pene­
trate a mystery, and to learn that which, wheh
actually known, must inflict upon it the tortures
of self-contempt, remorse, and despair.
*i
Once more :— A very obvious train of thought,
and one by which we need not be here detained,
will lead us to admit that the boon of a plenaiy
memory, or a perpetual and perfect conscious­
ness of all that has, in any period, belonged to
our corporeal and mental existence, will prove
a blessing only to those whose whole constitution,
moral and intellectual, is in harmony; and a
curse to any within whose bosoms vehement and
malign passions are at variance, and are all at
war with the unalterable principles of virtue.
Memory is the fuel of remorse; and how
intensely will that fire bum which shall be sup­
plied with its material in a hundred-fold propor­
tion to what it is in the present life I But on
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 135
thisatopic the reader’s meditations can need no
prompting.
Then, a similar train of inferences may be
pursued in relation to the supposed substitution
of a-real and rational association of ideas, for an
accidental and organic succession of thoughts
and feelings. The bliss of folly, and the laughing
infatuation of vice, are sustained, in great mea­
sure, by the aid of that whimsical and irrational
series of images which ordinarily diverts the
mind, from the consideration of its real condi­
tion« and its welfare* And these fantastic images
become imore and more homogeneous with the
actual moral tastes, and therefore more and more
enchain the attention, and exclude truth and
reason. The dissipation of these dreams would
be* to a mind enthralled by them, a sad and
terrible awakening. On the contrary, if the
mind has really set forward on the road of virtue
and .wisdom, and intently desires truth— the
highest truth, and nothing else; then nothing so
propitious, or so happily, exciting, could happen
to it* as to be exempted, and for ever, from the
tyranny of organic suggestions,, and from the
brute despotism of mere fortuity, within the
sacred precincts of its meditations and emotions.
The very same alternative presents itself, if
we think of the probable consequences* either of
an; enlarged power of attending simultaneously
;
to various objects, and of carrying on various
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
PMY6ICAL THEORY
*
operat*ons,or to the faculty of perceiving, abstract
relations, at a glance. For each of these advance*-
meats, while it liberates the wise and sincere
from mental embarrassments, and frees them
from occasions of error, will strip the unwise an<j.
the false-hearted of those means of illusion which*
with a half conscious perversity* they have been
wont to employ for the purpose of maintaiiiing
their self esteem. To rational natures, illusions
must be temporary; but it is not certain, that
a cordial and happy admission of truth* and a
submission to the practical consequences of truth*
will immediately and naturally follow the dissi*
pation of error; for between the mere intek
lectual perception of any principle, and a yielding
to the inference thence resulting, there intervenes*
not only contrary desires and inveterate habits*
but the sheer stubbornness of the will* or that
energy of pride which is seen to be the firmest
element of human nature, and the one which*
least of all, and last of all* is open to the influ-
ence of considerations of personal welfare^ nor
are instances rare, wherein* with a clear and
distinct choice* personal welfare— self-interest
entire* has been held in contempt, and has been
for ever thrown away, for the saving of pride*
and for the preservation of a stubborn purpose*
Now what happens (we may say ordinarily, or
often) in the present state, may be reckoned
upon as likely to happen also in a future state ;
and it may then he seen that intelligent beings*
under the full glare of the eternal principles of
IS6
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 187
truth and* virtue, will nevertheless spurn to eon-
fessthe application of these truths to their own
individual case, and will choose rather to endure
the worst consequences of persisting in a false
position. There are few, perhaps, who, if they
Would look closely into their hearts, might not
find 'the indications at least, of feelings which,
under certain circumstances, would impel them
to act in the obdurate manner we have here
There is however this difference to be noted,
nhmely, that, m the present state, let truth be
brought home to our convictions ever so clearly,
at certain times, there is yet always left behind a
reserve of sophisms, or of specious exceptions,
or evasions; there is always a mistiness and a
dhnlness* to Which, after a little while, the mind
may revert, and so may fondly persuade itself
that things are not really as they have been
represented. But this refuge of lies, must, as we
suppose, be entirely broken up with the breaking
up of that animal organization of the mind
whence chiefly illusions arise; nor could these
fallacies ever again be resorted to, after the
faculty of discerning intuitively the abstract rela­
tions of things had come into play. The mind
would then, and would incessantly have in view
the unalterable verities of moral order and good­
ness, just as we now apprehend the simplest
mathematical propositions, and yet would (or
might) wrestle against the plain consequence, as
applied to itself, with an unabated determination
Digitized by Google
188 PHYSICAL ’THEORY
»ever to confess it—^-never to bend, or to gay,
“ I have sinned, and am in the wrong*/' SuGh a
struggle between the intellect and the will, going
on while the personal welfare was dismally sacri­
ficed, cannot be conceived of otherwise, than-as
involving utter wretchedness.
Nor should it be forgotten that, although»
at present, owing in part to the extreme indis­
tinctness and variableness of language, in part
to the organic imperfections of individual minds,
and in great part too arising.from our want of
immediate communication with the. spiritual
world— owing we say to these causes, ,
■even the
simplest elements of moral truth never force
themselves irresistibly upon our assent; whereas,
when these obscurities and ambiguities shall
have passed away, moral truth, probably, will be
the simplest and most certain, and the most
irresistibly convincing of all kinds of truth, not
excepting mathematical axioms; so that the
mind, if it be not happily in harmony with these
principles, shall be crushed under their weight,
and be totally unable so much as to raise itself
into an attitude of resistance, although still
repugnant in will. As the most distressing
uneasiness to which upright minds are now
liable is that occasioned by misgivings and per­
plexities concerning the great moral system» so,
in the future state, as we may believe, shall an in­
tensity of disquiet affect the perverse, the unjust,
and the impure, from the glaring brightness and
certainty of the principles of that same system.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 189
We have alluded to the benefits and pleasures
likely to result from the substitution of a perfect
medium of communication among minds, in the
place of the rude and inadequate symbols which
compose our mundane languages. And yet here
again this high advantage can be no blessing
apart from goodness, integrity, purity, in those
to whom it shall attach. All powers and qualities,
whether mechanical, chemical, intellectual, or
moral, are singly enhanced by the accumulation
of numbers : — that is to say, each part or parcel
of the. mass is raised to a higher value or inten­
sity when it forms one of a heap, than when left
to; itself ; it is so that combustion rages the more
as fuel is heaped upon the pyre, and so that
minds develop their fullest powers, and so that
very sedate sentiments are often exalted to the
pitch of a mad enthusiasm. The more complete
and immediate: is the correspondence of the parts,
or of the individuals one with another, the more
will this enhancement of the individual and the
combined force be accelerated, and the further
will it go. The present imperfections of language
therefore, if on the one hand they operate to
bar our advancement in knowledge and virtue,
on the other, serve to put a check upon the
pestilent circulation of vice. The actual peace
and purity of the world are perhaps nearly as
much attributable to the shutting in of the horrid
secrets of the worst hearts, as to the diffusion of
the benign sentiments and happy affections of
the best. What would human society presently
Digitized by G o o g l e
140 PHYSICAL THEORY
become, if the mysteries of malice and impurity
that are locked within some few bosoms, Werd
divulged to all, so that all might and must
catch the infection of blasphemy, hatred, and
corruption I
Now, although we suppose that, in the future
as well as in the present state, communication
shall be voluntary, and that therefore the secrets
of the heart may there, as here, be kept seCfcet ;
yet we know there is actually a motive id our
nature, and a motive that expands itself especially
in the most depraved minds, impelling such, with
a wantonness of horrid vanity, to expose the
ulcers of their souls to the eyes of others. That
such an ambition attaches to desperaté wicked­
ness, none can doubt whose lot has led them to
be much conversant with the lost and reprobate
of human kind. This motive cannot fail to be
powerfully excited by the consciousness of ad
increased facility for indulging it. This sort
of augmentation attends all the passions and
desires. Let then the very worst minds, herding
with multitudes ready for infection, find them­
selves endowed with a faculty— not of dimly,
laboriously, and inadequately expressing intel­
lectual and moral notions, but of vividly and
copiously setting forth, as it were upon thé stall;
the rich abominations of their souls, and of
attracting and of fascinating all eyes, by thë
endless novelties of their versatile wickedness*:—
let such feel themselves able to convulse vast con­
gregations with woe-shaken bursts of laughter,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. HI
by fresh and fresh exposures of infernal sin ; let
there be room for this, and what were such a
world! and yet in following out this frightful sup­
position, we invent nothing, we assume nothing
out of nature, or which may not be sustained as
simply probable by analogy of actual facts, of
frequent occurrence in the present state.
. Once more ; let it be considered that, although
the absolute subordination of the corporeal facul­
ties to the will and purposes of the mind, and the
Consequent absence of separate bodily interests,
must be felt as a high advantage, and an incalcu­
lable benefit, by those who are conscious that they
are steadily pursuing the real welfare of the spirit,
and are pursuing it on the true path ; the feeling
xnust be the very reverse in any case in which it
is known that these real and permanent interests
have been desperately compromised, and that the
course Upon which the spirit is rushing forward
is one of madness, folly, damage, and despair.
In the present state we often owe much of the
alleviation of mental distress to the constantly
recurring necessity of caring for the body; and
sometimes even the very sufferings of the body
gratefully relieve the- heart of the otherwise in­
cessant burden of its griefs: there is a diversion,
¡an alternation, and a relief, arising merely from
the shifting of our cares and pains.
But if the body has no longer any wants, and
has no separate welfare to be thought of; if it be
nothing but the mind’s passive instrument, and
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
its medium of action and sensation ; and if, at the
same time, the mind knows that it has fallen far
back from the course of hope and happiness, if
its well-being has been sported with, and thrown
away, then must a brooding melancholy and
remorse fix themselves without intermission upon
the soul, and its misery must become unmixed.
Here again we are not dreaming of things
altogether unreal and fantastic ; but are only
imagining this our actual human nature, and
our actual modes of feeling, at work in their
accustomed manner, under a change of circumr
stances ; and this change .too,* such as has a
rational connexion with the known principles of
the intellectual system.
Our conclusion then is (as stated at the
commencement of this digressive chapter) tji^
although we may reasonably anticipate certain
enhancements of the powers of human nature tq
take place in a future stage of its progress, yet
that none of these additions or improvements
necessarily involves an increase of happiness;
but on the contrary, is in itself as likely to bring
with it an intensity of suffering. The question,
therefore, whether we are to be more happy in
another world, than at present, or less so, must
be determined by reasons that are to be sought
for altogether from a different quarter. Any
Physical T heory of another life must leave
this anxiety just where it found it.
142
Digitized by Google
J
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 143
C H A P T E R X I.
PROBABLE POINT OF CONTRAST BETWEEN THE
ANIMAL AND SPIRITUAL BODY, IN THE PRIN­
CIPLE OF THEIR CONSTRUCTION RESPECTIVELY.
H itherto we have adventured nothing con­
cerning the exterior conformation, or visible
structure, of the future human body; nor indeed
are much disposed to do so, inasmuch as it is not
only a subject of secondary importance in itself,
but it comes less within the reach of rational
conjecture, and is of a kind likely to call up
the fantasies of the imagination. Nevertheless,
before we pass on, let a word be said on this
point: yet we shall not stay, either to defend or
explain the hint or two we may suggest.
We assume then, in the first place, that the
apparent import of some passages and phrases of
scripture tends to suggest the belief that the die
of human nature, as to its form and figure, is to
be used again in a new world. Partly on the
ground of inferences from general principles,
and partly on the strength of particular asser­
tions, we suppose that the fair and faultless
paradisaical model of human beauty and majesty,
which stood forward as the most illustrious
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
144 PHYSICAL THEORY
instance of creative wisdom— the bright gem of
the visible world— this form too, which has been
borne and consecrated by incarnate deity— that
it shall at length regain its forfeited honours,
and once more be pronounced, “ very good;”
so good as to forbid its being superseded; on
the contrary, that it shall be reinstated, and
allowed, after its long degradation, to enjoy its
birthright of immortality.
It is true indeed that the inspired writers put
a disparagement upon those adventitious recom­
mendations of the person to which, in our fond­
ness and folly, we are prone to attach an inordi­
nate importance. Nevertheless, while they do
so, they are far from using the style of cynics or
of stoics; much less do they, like the atheist,
throw contempt upon human nature, or spurn
the conditions of the animal and social economy,
or pride themselves, like the mystic, upon a
sovereign disdain of all ordinary motives and
affections. Nothing of this sort do we meet with
in the scriptures: on the contrary, not merely
the prophets and poets of the old testament, but
our Lord and his apostles, uniformly treat with
a grave respect whatever is part and parcel of
human nature;— a respect well becoming devout
minds, which are apt to discern, and are prepared
to reverence, the Creator, in all his works.
From the general tone of inspired persons we
might gather the opinion that, in speaking of the
human body, they, with a prophetic eye, beheld
it as destined to a new and permanent glory,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 145
and as intended to stand as the image of God,
freed from distortions and blemishes, and exempt
from decay.
So plastic are all materials under the hand
of infinite intelligence, and so susceptible are
natural forms of accommodation to two or more
purposes, and so much does the unexhausted
skill of the Creator delight to show its copious
resources, that we may readily believe the
human body to have been so planned, from the
first, as that its form might take on to another,
and a different internal economy. That is to
say— while the uses of internal parts, and the
functions of the viscera may be changed, yet it
will be so as that the new functions and uses of
parts shall, without damage or waste, work in
with the original contour and symmetry of the
form. In this manner, not only shall the first
design of the Creator be honoured, but the
momentous early history of man upon earth
shall be visibly kept in mind, by the perpetuity
of the form under which its events were trans­
acted £ and so too, shall there be continued a
vivid recollection of personal identity, and indi­
vidual character. On this supposition the human
form, whatever splendours may invest it, or
whatever energies it may exercise, will carry1
forward, through ages, a memento of that first
stage of life, whence fortunes so high have
sprung; in like manner (to compare great things
with small) as ancient houses preserve, in their
L
Digitized by G o o g l e
146 PHYSICAL THEORY
bearings, the symbols of the achievements by
which the founder of the family won his honours,
and lands.
But let all this be as it may, meantime there
is little hazard in stating the probability that,
whatever is to be the type of the future corpo­
reity, it shall not exhibit less of divine skill and
benignity than does our present animal organize
tion; rather, as it may well be supposed* this
advance in the scale of being shall be marked
by a corresponding higher excellence of the
mechanism that sustains it; and we may believe
that the frame which is to exult over death shall
be even more wonderfully constructed than the
one over which death had triumphed. Shall not
the very elements of that immortal body be
more plastic, more refined, and more readily
assimilated to mind; so that no contrarieties
will have to be reconciled, no repugnancies to
be overcome, and no compromise to*be made ? ,
S
There is however a probable point of contrast
in the construction of the present and the future
body, which deserves to be noticed; mid it may
be thus explained. The admirable contrivances
involved in animal and vegetable .organization
may properly be considered under two aspects,
that is to say, first, as consisting m the adaptation
of the general properties and affinities of /the
material world, to the purposes of life; and
secondly, in the adaptation, one to another, of
the several members, organs, and viscera of the
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 147
plant or animal, so as to educe from those ele­
mentary principles the intended result. For
example, in the economy of a plant, there is
first to be noticed, the chemical and invisible
process, through the course of which light, heat,
moisture, electricity, oxygen, azote, carbon, and
the various metallic and saline substances fur­
nished by the soil, are compounded, in modes
inimitable by human art, for the production of
the several specific vegetable substances— the
wood, the resins, the sap, the sugar, and the rest.
But then, in the next place, there is the mecha­
nical adjustment of parts, as seen in the root,
and stem, and leaves; in the vessels, the absorb­
ents, the expirents, the flower, the fruit, the
seed. And the same distinction is observable in
the animal system; that is to say, there is the
secret process with the elementary principles; and
there is the visible mechanical apparatus.
Now in some beings the principles may be few
and the process simple, while the mechanism is
complex and the parts intricate and many. Or
in other beings, on the contrary, the principles
may be various, and their interaction highly
refined, while the mechanism is of the simplest
kind; and then it is easy to conceive of great
diversities in the relative complexity of these two
classes of contrivances;— as for example, in one
instance there may be an elaborate structure,
and few elementary principles; in another, a
harmony of a thousand elements, effected upon
an organization that might be understood at a
l 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
148 PHYSICAL THEORY
glance. I f an illustration of this distinction were
needed, we might refer to certain products of
human ingenuity, and perhaps should not find;a
better than that furnished by the chronometer,
or by a musical automaton, in both which a very
few of the principles or properties of matter,are
wrought upon ; namely, gravitation, elasticity*
momentum, friction, vibration ; and these.few
are all of one class, and might perhaps be
reduced to two ; while the parts of the mechanism*
and the adjustments which are to produce the
required regularity of movement, are so nume­
rous, so refined, and so complicated, as to render
either of those pieces of workmanship a wonder
of skill, science, and practical ingenuity, and of
manipulative execution. On the other hand, an
achromatic lens presents an instance of -almost
the simplest possible structure, and of*, thé
absence of any thing that can be called mecha­
nism, or complication of parts ; and yet this
mere adaptation of two crystal discs, the one to
the other, which may be understood at a glance
(while the chronometer, or the automaton, might
long perplex even an intelligent eye) involves,
and brings into combined operation, not merely
certain abstruse mathematical principles, but
several of the mechanical properties of matter,
together with the laws of light, and the specific
qualities of particular substances. In fact, almost
the round of our modern sciences is implicated,
directly or remotely, in the construction and nse
of an achromatic lens.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.. 149
' Now to apply the distinction, as above ex­
plained, to our immediate purpose, we assume
the probability that the contrast between the
present animal body, and the future spiritual
body, or between terrestrial and celestial orders,
will be Found to bear an analogy to the difference,
for example, between the chronometer and the
achromatic lens; so that while the animal orga­
nization of the present human body, although in
fact it combines many principles, and brings into
concert many powers, yet excites our admiration
mainly on account of the complexity of its parts,
the delicacy of its visible construction, and the
elaborate adaptation of function to function, on
the contrary, the spiritual body shall (perhaps)
be absolutely homogeneous in its elements,
perfectly simple in its construction, and uniform
in its structure ;— a pure, undiversified, uncom­
pounded corporeity. Nevertheless, by a won­
derful adaptation of its principles, it shall stand
actively related to all, or almost all the powers
and properties, as well of the material as of the
immaterial universe; and shall offer an epitome
of all being;— passively sensible of all qualities,
potent toward all;— the mirror of whatever
exists, and an apt agent in every sort of movement.
In a structure, such as we here imagine, it
would be the harmony o f principles, instead of
the complexity o f p
a
r
t
s
, that would display the
infinite resources of the Creative Intelligence;
and moreover, a structure of this sort would
leave human ingenuity in the rear, even at a
Digitized by G o o g l e
150 PHYSICAL THEORY
greater distance than do the terrestrial organize
tions at present known to us ; for while the skill
of man goes far in effecting delicate and compli­
cated pieces of mechanism/ it soon reaches its
ultimate point in attempting to harmonize
various principles, within the limits of a simple
structure; nor in fact is it easy to name more
than two or three signal examples of this kind in
the whole range of the arts.
The above-mentioned hypothesis of a simple
construction of multifarious principles, plainly
implies, if not a higher exertion, yet a fuller
display of intelligence than is afforded by an
elaborate construction of few principles. Or
perhaps the difference in this respect should be
thus stated, that, in the former case, the Con­
triving Mind starts from a higher point, inasmuch
as there is presumed a preparatory adaptation of
the first elements of the material and spiritual
systems; and this species of skill supposes an
absolute knowledge of, and command over, not
only all things actual, but all tilings possible.
Man fails in his attempts of this sort, because he
has no command whatever over things that
might be, but are n o t; and only a limited and
glimmering knowledge of unreal, abstract, or
possible existence. What he finds ready to his
hand, he can recombine; and here he stops;
but the Creator has devised all elements, material
and immaterial, so as at once to admit of cer­
tain combinations of them, and to provide for
every possible combination which the ultimate
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTH&R l !fE. 151
and far remote purposes of his universal govern­
ment may at any time require. Our hypothesis
is then, that the spiritual body, and the future
mode of human existence, shall give evidence
(not so clearly given in the present world) of an
absolute supremacy in relation to the primary
laws of the creation, such as affords room for
highly complex adaptations of elements and prin­
ciples within the simplest structures.
Digitized by G o o g l e
\5Q PHYSICAL TWEORV
•‘
..•‘-»
I
J*
C H A P T E R X II,
THE TRANSITION OF HUMAN NATURE, FRQ^,
ANIMAL TO SPIRITUAL CORPOREJT1T, A NAt*
TURAL, NOT A MIRACULOUS EVENT.
T here may be, as in fact we assume that there,
are, the strongest physical reasons for expecting
a new and an expanded life, as intended for the
human family. Innumerable analogies gathered
from the processes of 4he vegetable and animal
world illustrate, and in a sense, corroborate tins
expectation; while the irresistible impulses and
instincts of the human mind — moral as well as
intellectual, all support it. Nevertheless, fori
religious purposes, and for bearing the stress ,ef
our moral principles, we must always simply>
rely upon the miraculously attested evidence of
the inspired writers. Our faith and hope rest
upon the testimony of heaven; not upon the,
soundness of philosophical speculations, or even
demonstrations, if such could be obtained. We
look for another life, not as theorists, but as
believers.
And yet there is a particular, or incidental
consequence, resulting from our receiving the
knowledge of another life through the medium
Digitized by T o o e l e
OFANOTHBR LIFE. 153
of a miraculously attested revelation, which
demands to be noticed; and it is this, that the
corporeal renovation of human nature, which
may properly be regarded as an established part
of the great order of the material and sentient
universe, or as a natural transition, comes to
be associated in our minds with religious ideas
only, 'and so to share the fate of a class of im­
pressions which, alas! with most men are not the
most constant or substantial.
The inspired writers have a definite commis­
sion to execute, a special purpose in view, and an
extraordinary dispensation to carry forward ; nor
do they ever lose sight of their proper and pecu­
liar office — their business is, in whatever they
announce, or relate, and whether it be in itself
natural or supernatural, ordinary or otherwise,
to fix the attention of men upon the divine
agency, to which they always give a prominence
that nearly puts out of view second causes.
Mankind looks with eagerness to that which is
visible and proximate;* but the ministers of
heaven demand devout regard to be paid to that
which is invisible, and although remote, yet
principal. God is the source of all things, and
the disposer of a ll; and he is so alike of what
follows a known and common course, as of what
breaks in upon that course. The inspired writers
have but one language, the language of piety,
for events of whatever order; hence it is that
the terms and style of a supernatural narrative
run through the account they give of even the
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
most ordinary and natural «vents: not that they
ever affirm miracles where there were none (a
most unworthy supposition) but that they convey
an impression, always just indeed, of tine constant
presence of the divine power and providence in
a. word, they write and speak as “ seeing him
who is invisible,”
But there arises inevitably, from this mode of
writing, a degree of ambiguity, or we should
rather say, a degree of difficulty, in discrimi­
nating between what was strictly miraculous,
and what simply natural, in the transactions
recorded in scripture; for when facts of the
latter kind are described as if seen from the
height of heaven, they may appear to have been,
what they were not— special interpositions of
omnipotence. In truth the ordinary and the
extraordinary acts of the divine government
differ, rather relatively, and as they affect our
modes of thinking, than essentially. Rigidly
considered, the entrance of a human being upon
the world in the.common course of mature* is not
less really a manifestation of the power and pro­
vidence of God, m that single instance, than is
the exit of a human heing from the world, in a
chariot of fire; there can be no impropriety
therefore in referring the one: event* as well as
the other, to its proper cause— the power of God.
But yet when, in obedience to the dictates of
piety, we have thus acknowledged the supreme
agent in relation to the ordinary occurrences
of life, or the events that belong to the history of
m
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 1 55
nations, it may be necessary, and it is useful, to
distribute them into classes, as natural or super­
natural ; and it is the business of the biblical
expositor to make this distinction, wherever
it may be done, in expounding the inspired
histories* Now unquestionably, what may, in
this manner, be done in relation to the accounts
of past transactions, may also be done in relation
to the predicted events that are yet to mark the
destiny of the human family; and it will perhaps
be found, in some instances, that our conviction
of the reality of things future, or unseen, has
suddenly and remarkably become more impres­
sive, merely in consequence of our having seen
reason to think of them as natural^ or as proper
part» of the established scheme of the universe,
instead of miraculous interruptions of that
scheme;
In such instances,, if such there be, it is not
that events of the latter class are abstractedly
less credible than those of the former; for in
relation to omnipotence the two kinds stand
on precisely the same level of credibility; but it
is merely that, from the constitution of our
minds, and from our habits of thinking, we are
able to bring the cme home to our conceptions in
a more vivid and a calmer manner than we can
the other. Whatever be the mode in which any
great change in the physical condition of man is
brought about, that is to say, whether it be in
steady and regular accordance with the system of
the universe, or as a single and unprecedented
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSIOALTkHEORY
act, two things are still trueconcerning it> namely«:
hirst, that such a change must spring from the
divine power; and secondly, that if it be future«
and if remote also from our ordinary meats, of. hit
formation, our positive belief of it must rest upon
the divine testimony. These facts established«
and remembered, we are then free to consider anly
future signal event m the history of-man in th£
light either of natural, orofsupernatural causation!
as the reasons adduced may seem to demands > ,
With the daily and hourly miracles (so to call
them) of the vegetable and animal world before
our eyes; with creations, renovations, transitions«
and transmigrations innumerable, going on, while
yet individuality and identity afce •preserved«
nothing ought to be thought incredible or uftr
likely concerning the destiny of man which com
»-
ports with these common wonders« and which in
itself is only an analogous transformation.i No
prejudice of the vulgar can be more unphikiso-
phical than is that which would obstruct, forta
moment, our acquiescence in the belief of a
future transfusion of human nature, with its
individuality, into a new and more refined cor­
poreal structure. The profound resources of the
divine intelligence are constantly being developed
in our view, not in a thousand modes merely,
but in a hundred thousand; and it is perfectly
manifest that this Sovereign Intelligence— master
of whatever is abstractedly possible, delights in
taking the utmost range of diversity, not merely
156
Digitized by Google
OP ANOTHER LIFE.
as to fashion, but as to rule and condition, and as
to history and circumstance; and if so low a mode
of speaking* were tolerable, one might say, the
probabilities that man, the chief terrestrial animal,
and an animal of so complex a constitution, is
destined to undergo several transitions, are as a
thousand to one of the contrary. Every thing be­
longing to human nature is mysterious; or rather,
bespeaks the existence of powers and instincts
undeveloped, and which, though they just indicate
their presence, do not reach their apparent end.
It is'true indeed that many species of animals
fulfil (so far as we know) the law of their exist­
ence, andreachtheir highest excellence, under one
form of life1
; and then die, as they are born, with
ilo other, difference than what belongs to the
changes involved in growth and decay. But then
none of these species offer, in their organization,
any indications of incompleteness, or show the
latent' types of an expected metamorphosis;
whereas in every case where a transition from
one mode of life to another is to take place, the
germs of the future being are wrapped in the
organization of the present being; and in every
such instance a well practised naturalist, in exa­
mining it (supposing H to have been hitherto
unknown to him) during its initial stage, would,
without hesitation, announce it to have in pro­
spect another and a higher mode of life; for he
would discern within, or upon it, the symbols of
its destined progression, and he would find in its
habits certain instincts that have reference to a
157
Digitized by Google
158 PHYSICAL THEORY
more perfect manner of existence. Noir is it so
with man ? W e have already token this for granted,
and the theme is one that has often been touched,
and is not a necessary part of our argument,
inasmuch as the task we have chosen is not that
of proving the truth of the doctrine of a future
life, but that of following some probable conjec­
tures concerning it, taken as true, on the au­
thority of the Christian writings. Nevertheless
a word or two may be allowed on the subject?
before we pass on.
The proposition then which we assume is
this, that the rational and moral conscious­
ness, with the various faculties therein com­
prised, is to survive the decomposition of the
animal structure, and is to attach itself to a
new and more refined structure. O f course
therefore it is not to the animal organization
that we are to look, as if to find there the
symbols of a metamorphosis, or the germs of
another type of life; for the animal is to
accomplish its purposes in the présent initial
era of human existence, and, like other intrant
itive species, it develops all its parts, and falls
into decay without leaving any renascent nucleus«
But it is among the moral sentiments and the
intellectual faculties, that is to say, within the
circle of the proper consciousness of the man;
that we ought to find, if at all, the indicatiotis of
a second birth, and of a new economy of life.
Now all that has, and that may be said, and it is
not a little, in illustration of the theorem of thé
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 159
immortality of man, as foreshown by his moral
sense, by his expectation of retribution, by his
aspirations after a better existence, by the vast
compass of his faculties, and by his instinctive
horror of annihilation— all these prognostics of
futurity, and if there are any other, are capable
of being* condensed into a single proposition,
setting forth the fact— a fact the mere statement
of which contains virtually a demonstrative proof
of the principle it involves, namely— That the
idea, or the expectation of another life is an
element of human nature, or an original article in
the physiology of man. Shall any one deny that
the human family harbours the thought of living
again after death ? or if any one would labour to
show that this common expectation is groundless,
his very argument, and the stress and ingenuity
of his reasoning, affords the best sort of evidence
thtat the instinctive belief of immortality is too
general, and is too deeply seated to be easily
loosened.
Now let this mere fact, stripped of whatever,
by the most severe analysis, we may reject as
adventitious, be coldly regarded, in a purely
physiological light; and let it be put on the
ground of analogy with any facts that may seem
naturally to comport with it;— as for example,
with the preparations that are made by any of the
transitive species of animals (whether blindly or
wittingly) for their approaching metamorphosis«
If an animal— an insect, of the history of which
at present we know nothing, is observed, at a
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
160 PHYSICAL THEORY
certain season of the year, to abandon its usual
haunts, and to turn away from its wonted enjoy­
ments, and to seek for itself a crevice, or secure
asylum, fit for affording it what it must imme­
diately need in its new and untried condition;
if it is seen to be employed in a manner which
has no utility whatever in relation to its present
mode of life ;— in such a case, we infer, without
a shadow of doubt, that the creature is following
a sure leading of nature; nor should we deem
any thing much more unaccountable or mon­
strous, than to find that all these forecasting and
prudential operations came to nothing, and that
the deluded insect, instead of awaking in gaiety
from its transition-torpor, had utterly perished,
and that its dust had been irrecoverably scattered
by the winds.
What sound principle of philosophy then for­
bids our looking at the human species as the
chief of the terrestrial tribes, and then inferring
that the sum of human instincts, impressions,
expectations, and opinions (taken at large)
constituting as they do the elements of our
constitution, the parts of our nature, are to be
held infallible indications of what awaits the
species, and as physically prophetic of its destiny ?
Our present argument is reducible to a very few
words, or to a syllogism that contains its own
demonstration* Man, we affirm, is to undergo
a metamorphosis, and is to pass on to another
stage of existence— because, by the constitution
of his mind, he expects to do so.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 161
But we are told that it is among the charac­
teristics of human nature to admit and enter­
tain groundless opinions; and if we should
deny this, an opponent would say— “ You affirm
my opinion of the futility of the doctrine of a
future life to be false; yet it is mine, and the
opinion too of many.” In reply we freely
admit this fact, and allow that an adherence to
baseless prejudices is a characteristic of human
nature; but we request an important distinction
to be observed, which is this, that although
any particular persuasion may be unfounded, and
any single dogma false, and any one chain of
reasoning sophistical, yet it must by no means
be granted, either, that the reasoning faculty in
man is, in its first principles illusive, or that the
abstract import, or condensed value of human
belief, can be at variance with truth and nature;
or that the common instincts of the human
family are nugatory, and have no end, or final
cause. Suppositions such as these are contra­
dicted by the entire analogy of the animated
world; as well as that they are abstractedly
improbable and repulsive. Thus for example, any
one of the religions professed by particular tribes
of men may be false, in whatever distinguishes it
from other religions; that is to say in whatever
is partial and peculiar ; but the religious instinct,
and the abstract belief of invisible creative power,
is not false; and so any specific expectation
of what awaits us after death, may prove a
dream; but not so the human expectation at
M
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
160 PHYSICAL THEORY
large of surviving the dissolution of the body.
Those sheer errors of which men individually,
or nationally, have become the victims, are
always of a kind that may be traced to artificial
and accidental causes, such as the influence of
interested impostors, or enthusiasts *
, or they
have sprung from the vanity and perversity of
philosophers, or founders of sects. But on the
contrary, the common or generic impressions,
expectations, and opinions of man, spring un­
questionably from the elements of his nature,
and how much soever they may be warped, or
exaggerated, deformed, .repressed, or denied,
they reappear, every where, and in every age,
with unabated force, and with very nearly the
same essential properties. These opinions and
impressions must be substantially true, if the*e
be truth or harmony at all in the scheme of the
universe. Among such physical elements of
human nature, the prime is the belief of an Intel­
ligent First Cause; and the second, the belief of
a future life, and a retributive economy. To
impugn then the doctrine of immortality, or
of another stage of existence, succeeding the
present, is to find a species, marked in the
most distinct manner with the indications of a
future transformation, and yet to affirm that no
transformation awaits it.
But if a future life awaits the human family,
and if it be a change involved in the original
constitution of our nature, then it must be allow­
able to speak of it, and of the means and mode
Digitized by G o o g l e
O? ANOTHER LIFE. 163
of the change, as we. might of any other part of
the scheme of the universe:— yet always with a
becoming modesty and seriousness; and this,
notwithstanding the special circumstance attend­
ing our belief of the fact, namely, that our
persuasion of it rests primarily upon evidence
miraculously conveyed to us; and notwithstand­
ing the fact also, that the renovation of human
nature, when brought about, shall be effected in
a manner bearing peculiarly upon the religious
condition of men as individually accountable*
Every signal event, affecting the welfare
either of individuals or of nations, may, , with
strict propriety, be viewed, first as a natural
product of common causes, and. then as an act of
the divine government toward the individual, or
the community, and as carrying with it a special
meaning, in relation to the principles of the
great spiritual economy under which mankind
personally, and in the aggregate, are moving
forward. Thus for an instance, the first desola­
tion of Jerusalem was in truth, what it is repre­
sented to* have been by the inspired .historians
and prophets*— an immediate judgment of God
upon the nation’s impiety and infatuation, a
judgment long threatened, and, in the destined
moment, accomplished. Nevertheless it was
the simply natural consequence, not merely of
the personal ambition of the Babylonish monarch,
but of the altered relative position of nations
within the range of the Chaldean power. In
m 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
164 PHYSICAL THEORY
like: manner, that visible display of the divine
displeasure winch marked the second desolation
of the Jewish state, by the sword of the Romans,
may, without any diminution of our religious s e n ­
timents concerning it, be traced as easily and
naturally to its proximate political causes, as we
so trace the fall of any modern republic. And
what is true and rational in reference to things
on a smaller scale, is not untrue, or irrational,
in relation to things on a larger scale. No prin­
ciple of piety— piety well understood, forbids our
considering, under this same twofold aspect, the
desolation of the world by the general deluge,
which, while it was in the fullest sense, an out-
bursting of divine wrath, provoked by the bound­
less wickedness of the human race, was, at the
same time, an event attributable, like an earth­
quake, or the eruption of a volcano, or the inun­
dation of a province, to the working of telluric
forces, whether chemical, mechanical, meteoro­
logical, or sidereal. If, from an ill-judged fear
of giving way to a sceptical temper, we refuse
to entertain the physical, along with the religious ,
view of these, and of similar events, we expose
ourselves to the danger of being driven altogether
from our convictions, by proof, not to be resisted!
of natural agency in bringing those events about.
On the contrary, a well digested persuasion o f
the perfect consistency of the natural and the
spiritual economies under which we are placed,
at once exempts our religious faith from all
jeopardy, and brings our confidence in the
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 165
certainty' of the divine promises and threatening«
home to the mind, with the most impressive force
and vividness. It is not the lessening, but the
enhancing of religious sentiments toward which
we are now tending.
In like manner, and in adherence to the same
rule, we might find our salutary apprehension of
that second, and yet more tremendous desolation
erf this our planet by fire, which awaits it, to be
suddenly and greatly strengthened by our seeing
reason to consider it as a physical event, to
which, from their very constitution, all the
planetary bodies are exposed, and which, under
certain conjunctures, must inevitably happen,
and which our own planet is in imminent
danger of. If it be the ill chance of a
family to occupy the upper stories of a vast
laboratory, wherein processes are carrying on,
such as would want only the slightest accident
to produce an instantaneous and fatal explosion,
such a family, knowing the conditions of its
tenancy, assuredly should live mindful of what
may, in any moment, be their fate.
The physical fortunes of our globe (let thé
phrase be allowed) have already, as we cannot
doubt, included more than one chaotic con­
vulsion, and it has undergone, if not morè
than one universal submersion in water, at least
one fusion by fire. It may then include another
at some period when, either by a collision with
an erratic celestial body, or by the gradually
Digitized by G o o g l e
166 PHYSICAL THEORY
advancing1vehemence of the central furnace, the
pent up energy of telluric combustion shall get
vent, and becoming ungovernable, shall, in the
ràge of a day, or of a month, leave nothing
mundane undissolved that, in its nature, may be
molten by intensity of heat.
Such then' being the probable fate (if we may
still speak physically) of this planet, and perhaps
of others of the system, it is What we are to be
looking for ; and our position is like that of the
occupiers of the vine valleys, on the trembling
flanks of Etna or Vesuvius, whom we may
imagine to have been informed, or to know on
some rational grounds, that, by the slow but
incessant enlargemènt of the fiery abyss beneath
them, the entire crust and framework of the
mountain must, within some calculable period,
fall in, and the vast circuit of its base be con­
verted into a sea of flame and sulphur. On just
such conditions does the human family tread,
from age to age, the soil of their native planet.
Now all this which would happen, and at the
very moment when it shall happen, if there
were no rational and accountable family upon
the earth, shall, when it does take place, come
in at the destined hour to accomplish the special
intentions of the divine government toward the
descendants of Adam. T o us men, it will be in
a peculiar sense, as to all mundane creatures, it
will be in a common sense, the terrible day of
wrath — a day not by any propitiation to be
averted.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 167
It is true that when the present progress and
prospects of nations are considered, and when
the yet undeveloped powers of nature, in several
regions of the earth, are calculated, a strong, or
almost an irresistible persuasion is engendered,
as if long cycles of centuries were still in reserve
for the human .family, during which civilisation
and happiness shall be spreading, until the com­
bined faculties of the physical and moral world
shall have produced their utmost sum of good.
But then there are other considerations which
may well lead us to regard such expectations as
extremely fallacious, and as very likely to be
disappointed. What we see to take place on a
small scale, may certainly take place on a larger
scale: as for example;— a district of country, or
a few acres only, is redeemed from the wilder­
ness, and is just beginning to reward the enter­
prise and ability of a meritorious band of settlers;
and we confidently realize, in idea, the wealth,
and the thriving population, that within a cen­
tury must cover it. But an inundation, or an
earthquake, lays waste the fair territory;— its
occupiers perish in the catastrophe, or are
scattered, never to be reassembled; and the
whole falls back into its primeval savageness.
What is our planet but a province of a vast
empire; and the fate of a district, or of a farm
within it, may be the fate of the whole. If a
dyke bulges, and lets in the ocean, if a fire con­
sumes a factory, or a city— the crust of the globe
may bulge, and the central forces of water, or of
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
168 PHYSICAL THEORY
fire, or of both in conflict, may desolate all
continents. None can affirm, while the lesser
calamity is matter of frequent occurrence, that
the greater shall never happen.
Whether it is to take place in that same day
of telluric ruin, or not, (which is not our present
question) there is to be, and it is to come in as a
proper part of the great economy of the universe,
a second birth of the human family, when all
born of Eve shall, by the creative energy, live
again ; and, whether for the better or the w.orse,
individually, shall take their stand upon a higher
level of physical existence than at first. This,
transition, which now we find it so difficult to
think of, otherwise than with a sort of incredu­
lous apprehension, as a mysterious article of our
Christian faith, shall, when it occurs, be felt,
however momentous in its consequences, as a
simple fact, and as forming a natural epoch in
the history of man, whom we shall then under-.
stand to be a creature destined, from the first,;
to metamorphoses, and far extended progression^
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 169
C H A P T E R X III.
THE SURVIVANCE OF INDIVIDUAL CHARACTER,
AND OF THE MORAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
A c e r t a in degree of illusion attaches to
whatever is future and untried; and this false
colour, spread over our prospects, at one time
exaggerates our hopes, and at another, by reac­
tion, damps them. If a future change in our
condition be of a very extensive and important
kind, we are very apt to suppose that, even if
our consciousness of identity be not impaired by
the event, our ordinary modes of feeling, and
our characteristic sentiments and tastes, will none
of them remain the same. From previously en­
tertaining these delusive expectations it happens,
when we come actually to pass through some
such important revolution of personal condition,
that our first emotions are not so much those
of surprise at the greatness of the change, as of
disappointment at the small extent to which it
has affected our usual sensations, and at finding
how little our customary personal.consciousness
has been disturbed. We feel ourselves possessed
of the same familiar self — of the same pecu­
liarities of taste, and that the very same moral and
Digitized by G o o g l e
170 PHYSICAL THEORY
mental habits have passed on with us, through
the hour of transition, from one condition of life
to another; nor can we say that this transition,
in itself, has made us more wise or virtuous, or
that it has enhanced by so much as a particle,
our personal merits; although it may have
enlarged our range of action, and perhaps have
added to our means of enjoyment.
Now we may reasonably imagine that it will
be precisely thus in the moment of our passage
from the present, to another mode of existence.
The several powers of life shall have become
more intense in their activity, our consciousness
of being will have been expanded; the faculties
will no longer labour and hunt at their tasks,
or relapse exhausted: life will burn clear and
steady, and will need no replenishing; but yet
the inner man — the individual— the moral per­
sonality, will be untouched:— the remembrance
of yesterday and its little history, will be distinct
and familiar; and we shall come to an instan­
taneous conviction of the momentous practical
truth, that the physical and the moral nature are
so thoroughly independent one of the other, as
that the greatest imaginable revolution passing
upon the former, shall leave the latter simply
what it was.
A short season probably, will be enough to im­
part to us an easy familiarity with our new home,
a ready use of our corporeal instruments, mid
a facility in joining in with the economy around
its. Moreover it is reasonable to believe that,
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 171
whereas, m the present state, the heterogeneous
elements of mind and matter, as consorted within
the animal organization, are held together as by
force, and so as to occasion a vague feeling,
coming over us at times, as if we were dreaming,
or as if our Very life were an enigma, and as if
we were hdld back from actual contact with what
is real and substantial; — on the contrary, when
the corporeal nature has beeome nothing else
than the instrument and vehicle of the mind,
when the two elements of our existence have
come to be perfectly blended, and when, as a
consequence^ our feelings are all of one sort, and
when our several energies and impulses, instead
of counteracting one the other, shall flow always
in the same direction, that then there shall attend
us an incomparably more vivid sense of reality—
that then we shall perceive all things with a
sharp intensity, and shall have a bright, vivid,
consciousness of life, such as shall make us think
of the gone by period of animal life, as if indeed
it had been a dream. It is so that a man may
have groped his way, hour after hour, across a
marshy level, veiled in fogs, till he comes to the
foot of a steep, where, after some arduous steps,
he gains a height, and not pnly overlooks the
mists of the swamp, but beholds a wide illumed
landscape, and the clear sky, and the sun.
A t the moment of recognising our personal
consciousness after passing through the future
physical transformation, what we must fix upon
will unquestionably be our habitual emotions,
Digitized by G o o g l e
172 PHYSICAL THEORY
tastes» and moral dispositions ; for it is these that
constitute the very core of our being, and it is
these that must stand out, with so much the
more characteristic distinctness, when whatever
that was accidental and adjunctive has fallen off
from us. A ll merely animal sensations will have
been superseded; all mechanical and technical
habits will have lost their means and occasions ;
the intellectual furniture will; for the most part,
or perhaps entirely, have given place to know­
ledge of a more direct and substantial kind ; but
the sentiments we have cherished, and the affec­
tions that have settled down upon the mind, and
which constitute its character— these, now, with
a bold and prominent supremacy, will make lip
the continuity of our consciousness, and compel
us to confess ourselves the same. Much indeed
that belonged to our first stage of existence, will,
in the retrospect appear shadowy and unim­
portant ; but not so any of those events or
courses of conduct that shall be found to have
created or controlled our moral being.
It is plain that if any species of being is to
pass under a renovating process, the process must
be of a kind analogous to the properties which
are to be so transformed ; thus for instance, it
can be nothing but a physical power and a series
of physical transitions that must translaté an
animal from one condition of organization to
another ; and thus too, it can be nothing else but
a moral process, or a working upon the affections
Digitized by i ^ » o o Q l e
OF ano th er l if e . 17s
by motives, that can effect a transition from one
moral condition to another. It is indeed easy to
admit the illusion that, if we were but translated
to a purer sphere, and were but exempted from
certain evil influences, we should at once become
virtuous ; but a supposition such as this will not
bear to be examined ; for although external
causes may have had a powerful influence, at
first, in producing our present moral dispositions,
and so in determining our character, these dispo­
sitions, when once formed, possess a fixed con­
tinuity of their own, which is by no means
destroyed merely by removing the exterior influ­
ences whence they arose : and moreover, such
dispositions, or settled passions, when actually
generated and consolidated include a reproductive
energy ; — they are living powers ; they vegetate,
and cover the entire surface of the soul. The
moral nature then, or the personal character,
far from being open to renovation merely by the
means of a physical transition from one mode of
life to another, or by a passage from one system
of circumstances to another, is not to be rectified,
if at all, otherwise than by its coming under the
operation of congruous influences ; that is to
say, it must be wrought upon by moral Consi­
derations, and be swayed by reasons.
An instantaneous change, either from good to
evil, or from evil to good, effected in a sovereign
manner by a foreign power, and effected irre­
spectively of an economy of motives, would
rather be the annihilation of one being, and the
Digitized by G o o g l e
174 PHYSICAL THEORY
creation of another, than the changing of the
character of the same being; for it is of the very
nature of a change of character that there be an
internal process, a concurrence of the will, and
an attendant yielding of the rational faculties to
rational inducements, and also the giving way of
one species of desires, and of one class of habits,
to another. While therefore it consists perfectly
with the abstract reason of things, and with what
we see around us in nature, to expect that the
future transition from the present mode of exist­
ence to another will be effected immediately by
the divine power, it directly contradicts, not
merely the reason of things abstractedly, but our
actual knowledge and experience of the principles
of the moral and intellectual system, to hope for
any such sovereign renovation of our disposi­
tions, as consequent upon an enlargement of our
faculties, or upon a change of scene, circumstance,
and society. That the Sovereign Benevolence
may indeed, if it pleases, so touch the springs of
our motives as to bring about effectively a change
of character, is by no means to be denied; aftd
indeed such an act of grace lies at the foundation
of that economy of mercy under which we are
now placed; but then this exertion of spiritual
influence always flows in the channel of moral
means and inducements; nor are we entitled to
look for it under any other conditions than those
explicitly laid down, and solemnly insisted upon
by the inspired writers, who strictly confine our
expectations of efficacious grace to the present
Digitized by Google
OP ANOTHER LIFE. 175
economy, and who, in the tones of awful warning,
announce this to be the day of salvation, and this
the accepted season of mercy.
A little consideration may convince us that
to indulge an expectation of a sudden and phy­
sical restoration of moral soundness, by a sove­
reign act, in the same way that we look for a
renovation of our corporeal faculties, must
directly tend to bring the mind into a state in
which nothing less than the most prodigious of
all miracles could avail to its restoration. The
first principles of a moral economy are imme­
diately nullified when we persuade ourselves that
our moral nature does not differ from our animal
organization, in relation to the divine power, and
that the one, like the other, might be reinstated
by a word. The hope, well sustained as it is, of
a happy and not very remote renovation of our
bodily and intellectual existence, and of an en­
trance upon a higher and a wider field of action
and enjoyment, does indeed impart a kindling and
much needed energy to the languishing principles
of virtue; but these very principles, upon the
force and vivacity of which our future welfare
absolutely depends, could only be relaxed, or
totally destroyed, by our supposing that when
we wake up in another world, we shall find a
miracle to have been wrought unconsciously upon
our tempers, desires, and affections— and such a
miracle as supersedes the mortifying task of now
repressing malign and sensual dispositions, and of
cherishing, those that are pure and benevolent.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
176 PHYSICAL THEORY
We conclude then that any expectation of aii
improvement of the moral nature, merely in
consequence of a transition from a lower to a
higher stage of physical existence, will be found
delusive. And yet, though we must not suppose
the moral faculties to he renovated by such a
transition, we may well believe that it will give
scope to a much increased intensity of all emo­
tions and affections of this class, whether they
be benign or malignant, pure or sordid. This
probable enhancement of feeling in another life
deserves some attention; for it is conceivable
that the most profound or agitating sensations
of which we are conscious in the present state,
may seem trivial, when they come to be com­
pared with the corresponding passions and
affections of the future life.
Every one accustomed to reflect upon the
operations of his own mind must be aware of
a distinction between the intellectual and the
moral faculties, as to the rate at which they
severally m ove; for while the reasoning power
advances in a manner that might be likened to
an increase according to the rule of arithmetical
progression, and which consists in the adding of
one proposition to another, and in the accumula­
tion of equal quantities; it is, on the contrary,
the characteristic of the passions, and of all
intense sentiments, to rise with an accelerated
movement, and to increase at the rate of a geo­
metrical progression. Even the milder emotions
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 177
o f love and joy, and much more the vehe­
ment sensations, such as hatred, anger, jealousy*
revenge, despair, tend always toward this sort of
rapid enhancement, and fail to do so only as they
are checked, either by a sense of danger, con­
nected with the indulgence of them, or by feelings
of corporeal exhaustion, or by the interference of
the incidents and interests of common life. Espe­
cially it is to be noticed that those of the emotions
which kindle, or are kindled, by the imagination*
are liable to an acceleration such as produces a
physical excitement, highly perilous both to mind
and body, and needing to be speedily diverted.
And although the purely moral emotions are not
accompanied with precisely the same sort of
Corporeal disturbance, nevertheless, when they
actually gain full possession of the soul, they
rapidly exhaust the physical powers, and bring on
a state of torpor, or of general indifference.
Now this exhaustion manifestly belongs to
thè animal organization ; nor can we doubt that,
if it were possible to retain the body in a state of
neutrality, or of perfect quiescence, from the
first to the last, during a season of profound
emotion, then these same affections might advance
much further, and become far more intense,
than, as it is, they ever can or may. The cor­
poreal limitation of the passions becomes, in
truth, a matter of painful consciousness, whenever
they rise to an unusual height, or are long con­
tinued; and there takes place then, within the
bosom, an agony, partly animal, partly mental,
. N
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
178 PHYSICAL THEORY
and a very uneasy sense of the inadequateness
of our strongest emotions to the occasion that
calls them out. We feel, that we cannot feel as
we should : emotions are frustrate, and the affec­
tions which should have sprung upward, are
detained in a paroxysm on earth. It is thus with
the noblest sentiments, and thus with profound
grief; and the malign and vindictive passions
draw their tormenting force from this very sense
of restraint, and they rend the soul because they *
can move it so little. Does there not arise, amid
these convulsions of our nature, a tacit anticipa­
tion of a future state, in which the soul shall
be able to feel, and to take its fill of emotion ?
Except among the insane, no emotions are
permanent, or invariably uppermost ; but in sur­
rendering a powerful emotion, or in allowing it
to be displaced by interests and feeling of a more
common class, we confess the present inferiority
of our nature, which will bear so little ; and we
silently console ourselves by the instinctive belief
that a time will come when the passions shall
take their high course, without pause or restraint.
It is with a somewhat analogous feeling that,
when the desire of knowledge is thwarted, we
remand this appetite of the soul to a future life.
The necessities of the body, and its appetites, arè
the ruling powers of the present life ; while the
passions and affections are accessories only, which
must not have more than their seasons of indul­
gence ; and they must take a subordinate place*
/or this very reason, that it is their essence, if
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 179
freely indulged, to absorb tbe soul, and to exclude
every other object and pursuit; whereas an
indulgence of the intellectual tastes may be made
to consist much better with some regard to the
ordinary interests of life. Now this characte­
ristic exclusiveness of the moral sentiments and
passions, ought to be regarded as an indication
of that supremacy which belongs to them, and
which ultimately they must acquire. Those
powers of our nature which now must be re­
pressed, and confined to moments, because, if let
loose, they would become masters of the soul, in
a manner incompatible with our bodily and social
welfare, will, we cannot doubt, at length reach
their rightful ascendency and give law in an
irresistible manner to the active and intellectual
faculties. These latter are but means to an
end;— the highest reason is no more, and the
time shall come when what is instrumental shall
give place to what is supreme and final.
And when the sovereign faculties of the soul
— its affections, shall have gained the sway that
belongs to them, they will no doubt put the
instrumental faculties into a state of much more
energetic action than they ever reach at present,
while impelled in an inconstant and irregular
manner, and often by motives of an inferior class.
Far from supposing that, in a higher region,
where the affections shall be more intense and
more permanent, nothing shall be done or thought
of, but to indulge these profound sentiments, or
that an invariable, inactive, unproductive ecstasy,
n 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
180 PHYSICAL THEORY
is to fill the endless circle of ages, on the contrary,
we assume it as certain that every active faculty,
corporeal and rational, shall then come into play
at a vastly enhanced rate, and with much more
fruit and advantage, than at present:— the
impulse being greater and more uniform, the
movement shall be proportionably accelerated.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 181
C H A P T E R X IV ,
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE PRESENT AND
THE FUTURE EMPLOYMENT OF THE ACTIVE
PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN NATURE.
iF'ónce we relinquish the principle of analogy,
as applicable to the divine operations and govern­
ment, we abandoti all means of extending our
knowledge, and are left in a state of distressing
incertitude, in relation to the most momentous
subjects. But if the rule of analogy may really
be relied upon, and if it be safe to conclude
that a practical correspondence of means and
ends connects the training we are subjected
to in the present life, with the employments of
the life to come, and if the present is indeed an
education for the future, then does it appear
certain that ah initiatory course, of which (when
it is auspiciously passed through) the product
consists in forming habits of patient and strenuous
exertion, of order, of self-denial, and constancy,
and in cherishing the spirit of enterprise and
courage, and in bringing both mind and body
into a state in which the utmost possible may bé
done and borne— we say such a course will be
followed by another that shall demand, and bring
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
182 PHYSICAL THEORY
into exercise, these very same qualities and hábits,
and shall put them to work still more intensely.
Can we believe- that the precious and costly
fruits of a long and painful culture, in the present
state, are to fall to the earth, and perish, just as
they are ripened ?
But it may be asked, What scope can there be
for the exercise of the strenuous virtues, or what
room for patience, constancy, courage, in a world
of peace, love, and absolute security ? Now in
replying to this natural inquiry, it might be
allowable to sift a little the evidence on which
our vague and common notions of the fiiture life
are founded; and perhaps it might appear that in
this, as in so many other instances, the entire
scriptural evidence comprises some counterpoised
statements, from a comparison of which, and not
from any one portion of it, our belief ought to be
derived; but waiving any such biblical investiga­
tion, a little attention to the subject will enable
us to conceive of such a substitution of one
operation of the moral powers, for ancffher, as
may give exercise to the bold and arduous
virtues without implying either positive suffering
or personal danger. Let us make this attempt
to conceive of what we may call— transmuted
MORAL QUALITIES.
We may begin with that main element of
terrestrial virtue— pious resignation to the diviné
will, and a cairn fortitude, under circumstances
of privation, disappointment, and suffering. How
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE, 183
then can any such habit of the mind, together
with the sentiments that attach to it, find place
in a region of felicity ? With the view of finding
a satisfactory (or at least a sufficient) solution of
this difficulty, we should ask ourselves on what
ground it is we conclude that the principles of
the divine government, and the actual adminis­
tration of those principles, shall all be spread
open tp us, under a full light, at the moment of
our entrance upon the upper world ? No such
supposition can in fact be made good, and on the
contrary, reason may be shown for thinking that
those practical and temporary trials of our implicit
confidence in the divine rectitude and bene­
volence, with which here we are exercised, are
in truth, preparations for far more difficult acts
and habits of silent reverential submission, than
are as yet called for. The lesson we learn in
surrendering, for instance, the darling joys of
life, one after another, may seem a mere school­
ing— an unreal play, when we come into a
position of nearer concernment with the vast
movements of the divine government ; and then,
even although we should not be exposed to
personal sufferings or losses, yet, with the more
intense sensibilities belonging to a higher mode
of existence, and in view of transactions of which
here we think little, or know nothing, we may
be thrown back with force upon our already
acquired sentiments of loyal and devout acqui­
escence in the measures of absolute wisdom and
rectitude, and may be. compelled to confess that
Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
184 PHYSICAL THEORY
the habit of mind which had been forming bn
earth, was far from being superfluous in relation
to the events and duties of our after life ib
heaven.
A due consideration of the essential, and
therefore the unalterable disparity which sepa-r
rates finite and dependent minds from the
Infinite Mind, will lead us to perceive that no
future advancements, whatever, made by thé
former, in knowledge, or goodness, or intellectual
power, can in any sensible degree lessen the
interval between the Creator and his creatures,
even the most exalted of them. It is trué
indeed that a humble class of beings may at
length overtake and outstrip a higher class; yet
the highest shall never feel themselves to be
approximating to the Supreme Perfection. It is
mathematically and metaphysically certain that
the finite can never measure the infinite; and
inasmuch as it does not either measure or grasp
it, the symmetry of the infinite can never be
seen, or be otherwise than hypothetically assumed,
and devoutly confided in. The attributes of
God must therefore always surpass the compre«
hension of his creatures; and if his attributes
are incomprehensible, the acts too, which are the
products of those attributes, can be but imper­
fectly understood. A t least it must happen, in
certain critical conjunctures of the universal
scheme of things, that insuperable difficulties
will present themselves, and that, as great
epochs give place one to another, an abyss
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 185
will open, into which not the most exalted minds
can dare to look with a stedfast gaze, and from
the brink of which such will retire trembling.
We may indeed sometimes have persuaded
ourselves, in the fondness of speculation, that
certain inveterate difficulties are now at last
cleared up, and that the scheme of the moral
universe lies all outspread before ns, as in a map)
But the wise speedily surrender any such conceit,
and return gladly to the only ground on which
either men or seraphs can feel a footing— the
ground of implicit submission to the Infinite
Nature. It is indeed highly probable that thé
particular difficulties which embarrass our specu­
lative theology, and which now afflict us by their
formidable aspect, may utterly vanish at thé
moment when we gain a higher and more ad­
vantageous point of view ; and we may then
wonder at the slenderness of those modes of
thinking, which could allow of our being stag­
gered in any such manner. But then the very
sàme moment in which we clear the mists of
mortality, the mysteries of heaven will open
upon us ; and these shall involve difficulties of a
firmer texture, and such as shall try to the
utmost the silent fortitude of the soul. It is not
the vapours of earth, but it is “ thick clouds
of the sky,” that surround the throne of the
Almighty.
Yet we must by no means imagine that this
new call upon the religious fortitude of loyal
minds will induce a comfortless or a distracted
Digitized by G o o g l e
186 PHYSICAL THEORY
state of feeling; for as, in the present state, that
very same spiritual acquaintance with God, which
gives occasion to our perplexities, supplies us
also with ample means of holding them in abey­
ance, so that they do not smite the soul with
dismay and despair, in like manner doubtless,
shall still fuller discoveries of the Supreme Excel?
lence and Goodness abundantly sustain our con?
fidence, animate our constancy, and give spring
and warmth to our communion with Him, who,
though “ past finding out,” is nevertheless always
glorious in benevolence and wisdom. We see it
to be thus, even now, with the pious, who,
although they may be exercised more and more
severely, still grow, not merely in fortitude, but
in peace and joy. And thus in common life, the
youth contemns the troubles of childhood, and
cheerfully encounters the more real difficulties of
his entrance upon the world; and again the man
forgets the smaller cares of his youth, and bears
up beneath the multiplied anxieties of ripe age:
— each new period, in relieving us from one
burden, imposes another, and a heavier, and calls
into play whatever fortitude we had acquired in
our preliminary course; and yet does not forbid
our continued enjoyment of existence.
Again: a passive fortitude is not the only
virtue which the training we are under tends to
cherish; for there is a manifest purpose in the
construction of the moral and social system, to
call forth the more active excellence of courage,
Digitize -y Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 187
and the spirit of enterprise ; nor need we exclude
(properly understood) the stirring sentiment of
ambition. Can we doubt that He who, in his
word, is “ calling us to glory and virtue,” and who,
by the same channel, enjoins a manly and vigorous
discharge of our parts, is also, in the actual cir­
cumstances through which we are led, preparing
the intellectual and moral powers for what they
are to perform in another sphere. In the case of
certain individuals this apparent purpose occupies
the principal place in the scheme of providence
toward them. It is clear too that the noblest
and most generous tempers— the very choicest
minds, make the readiest proficiency in learning
this lesson ; while mean and inert souls— the
selfish, the diffident, and the pusillanimous,
although they may acquire something of the
passive virtues, almost totally fail in the .
Adhering then to the rule of analogy, and con­
fiding in thè principle that a rational consistency,
and an adaptation of means to the end, runs
through the divine proceedings, we conclude that
the future life shall actually call into exercise a
bold energy, and intrepidity, and ambition too 5
—
an ambition not selfish or vain, but loyal.
In assuming so much as this, we are by no
means obliged to suppose that those who, in the
present state, shall have gone through their
probation, and won immortal glory, are anew
to become liable to loss, injury or jeopardy of
happiness. Without admitting any such suppo­
sition, we may readily conceive of a state of
Digitized by LjOoq le
188 PHYSICAL THEORY
things in which there may be services to be
performed, enterprises to be undertaken, and a
promotion to be aimed at, such as none but the
bold, and the strong, shall be equal to, and none
but the aspiring dare to attempt. These services
may involve encounters with powerful and crafty
opponents ; or they may demand sudden exer*
tions of intelligence, and a ready recurrence to
resources, under circumstances that would amaze
and baffle all but the calmly courageous. And
there may be high advantages to be snatched by
the few whose flight can be long sustained, and is
the most steady; there may be dominations to
be exercised which those shall secure to them­
selves who can prove, by service done, that they
are equal to the weight of the sceptre. It is
surely a frivolous notion (if any actually enter­
tain it) that the vast and intricate machinery of
the universe, and the profound scheme of God's
government, are now soon to reach a resting
place, where nothing more shall remain to active
spirits, through an eternity, but recollections of
labour, anthems of praise, and inert repose. No
idea can do more violence to all the principles
on which we reason, than this does.
Not less unreasonable is it to imagine that the
future government of God, instead of being
carried forward, as now, by independent and in­
telligent agencies, shall proceed by the interposi­
tion of his immediate power, while the creatures
stand aloof, as idle spectators of omnipotence.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 1 8 9
Some such baring of the arm of the Almighty
may indeed mark particular epochs of the moral
system, and may come in to terminate one
cycle of government, and to introduce another;
but to suppose that the ordinary movements
shall be of this kind, is a notion devoid of
probability, and derogatory, as we must think,
to the divine wisdom. If the two schemes were
hypothetically stated, namely, that of ,a govern­
ment by immediate interpositions of omnipotence,
and that of a government the ends of which
should be secured by an all-pervading adjust­
ment of the free agencies of intelligent beings,
as well good as evil, the latter scheme must at
mice be preferred, as the best adapted to display
infinite wisdom, and so to compel all at length
to acknowledge, and to bow to the Sovereign
Excellence, which, out of the refractory and
chaotic materials of the moral world, has educed,
not merely a precise and predetermined result,
but a good result, and one worthy of wisdom,
rectitude, and benevolence.
It would not be very difficult to show in what
way, probably, every one of the active qualities,
moral and intellectual, which are now in training,
may come into exercise within a future system,
even although that system should exclude the
necessities and pains of the present state. A ll
the practical skill we acquire in managing affairs,
all the versatility, the sagacity, the calculation of
chances, the patience and assiduity, the promp­
titude and facility, as well as the higher virtues*
Digitized by f ^ o o Q l e
190 PHYSICAL THEORY
which we are learning every day, may well find
scope in a world such as is rationally anticipated,
when we think of heaven as the stage of life that*
is next to follow the discipline of earth.
Thus far we have thought of the future exer­
cise of the active virtues, in relation chiefly to
personal interests. But if we duly consider
the force, and the probable issue df those
intense emotions of good Will to others, and of
compassion toward the wretched, which are now
at work within generous bosoms, and which yet
are very slenderly dr partially brought into play
at present, we shall be impelled to think, nay,
confidently to conclude, that these dispositions
are, in this World, only bursting the husk, and
germinating* underground, in preparation for
free expansion and fructification in the beams
of a warmer fcun< With no other indication Of
the destinies of the universe than what may be
furnished by the swelling emotions Of pity that
are now working, pent up, in tender and noble
hearts, we should hardly fear to err in assuming
that a sphere will at length open upon such
spirits, wherein they shall find millions needing
to be governed, taught, rescued, and led forward,
from a worse to a better, or from a lower to a
higher stage of life.
With the material universe before us, such as
we nowknow it to be in extent, our conjectures
need not be put to much difficulty in imagining
what may be wanting to fill out our .idea of a
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 191
future economy, where, what now we so
ardently long to do, but are baffled in attempting,
shall be practicable, and shall offer itself to our
hands, on the largest scale; and where the
utmost which the most ambitious charity could
desire shall actually be granted. In admitting
suppositions of this kind, we are not compelled
to trench at all upon any article of otir Christian
belief, or to bring into question any of our serious
convictions concerning the firmness of the divine
administration of human affairs. A ll we do is,
on the strength of the principle of analogy, to
conclude that a preparation of feeling, shall find
its expansion; and that a commencement of
moral qualities shall have its end and completion.
If the instinctive yearnings of the human mind
after immortality, are allowed to furnish a strong
presumptive evidence (revelation apart) of the
life to come, so assuredly must the instinctive
and vehement desires of the noblest minds to
difiuse truth and happiness, and to relieve
misery, be allowed to foreshow what is actually
to be the employment of such minds. If there
be any soundness in the one sort of argument,
there must be an equal force in the other. For
it is quite as easy to suppose that the Creator
should have imparted to human nature, the
notion and the desire of immortality, without
intending to realise it, as that he should have
instilled a boundless benevolence, which is to
have no more opportunity to express itself than
it may chance to meet with in the present state :
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
and how often are such opportunities almost
wholly withheld! Some there are, who would
barely care to live at all, if they may have no
sphere of charity, and whose notion of substantial
happiness consists mainly, or entirely, in the idea
of wide and successful beneficence.
We conclude then, first, that the substitution
of spiritual for animal corporeity, leaves the
probabilities of increased happiness or misery
evenly balanced; secondly, that the transition
of human nature from one mode of physical ex­
istence to another, shall not itself affect the
moral sentiments, or personal character; thirdlyy
that emotions and passions, whether benign or
not, shall probably be far more intense in the
fixture state, than they, are at present; and
fourthly, that the active principles of our nature,
and our intellectual habits, such as they are now
in training, shall, in the future life, come into
actual use*
19*
i.
Digitized by Google M
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 193
C H A P T E R X V .
INTRODUCTORY TO SOME CONJECTURES CONCERN-
'ikd? THE CORRELATIVE CONSTRUCTION, ANI*
RECIPROCAL DESTINIES OF THE MATERIAL ÀND
"THE SPIRITUAL UNIVERSE.
: v,. ( . , ■. . r
T he above-named conclusions bring our theory
of another life to its intended issue, so far as it is
to be,drawn from a consideration of the present
structure of human nature, bodily and mental ;
but it remains (if it be reasonable and practicable
to do so) to pursue the indication of facts, and
of analogies, in relation to the great scheme,
material and spiritual, in the midst of which this
human nature is evolving its destinies. In other
words, we now wish to give some sort of hypo­
thetical consistency to the several elements of
our conceptions, in thinking of a future life, as
related to the theatre upon which it is to take its
course.
Allusion has been made above to the extent of
the material universe, and to our present know-!
ledge of its vastness ; nor perhaps is any thing
else possible, in the actual state of astronomical
science, than that we should endeavour, in soine
manner, to connect our belief concerning the
destinies of thè human family, with our concept
o
Digitized by v^.ooole
194 PHYSICAL THEORY
tions and our knowledge of the great system
in the midst of which we are moving. None
need fear the consequences of any such endea­
vours who have well learned the prime principle
of sound philosophy, namely, not to allow even
the most plausible and pleasing conjectures to
unsettle our conviction of truths established
independently, and resting upon positive evi­
dence. If there are any who will frown upon
all such attempts, as not merely fruitless, but
reprehensible and dangerous, they would do well
to consider that although individually, and from
the constitution of their minds, they may find it
very easy to abstain from every path of excursive
meditation, it is not so with others, who almost
irresistibly are borne forward to the vast fields of
universal contemplation— a field from which the
human mind is not to be barred, and which is
better taken possession of by those who reve­
rently bow to the authority of Christianity, than
left open to impiety.
Fully persuaded of the certainty and awful
reality of the Christian revelation, and prepared,
at every turn, to surrender whatever can he
shown not to comport with its decisions, and
provided also with those methods of reasoning
with which the modern physical logic supplies
us, we advance a step or two, in anxious curiosity,
to survey the vast realm of the universal King,
and to ask what, probably, may be the relation
in which we stand, or are ultimately to stand, to
our fellow-subjects of this unbounded empire.
Digitized by Google J
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 195
Is it really in vain that the human eye is per-:
mitted to traverse the immensity of space ? or is
it for no high purpose, now at length, and after
five thousand years of labour and conjecture,
that a true notion of the material universe has
been attained, and has become diffused among all
ranks in every civilized community ? A t last man
knows his place in the heavens, and is taught to
think justly of the relative importance of the
planet which has given him birth. During a long
course of centuries it was to little purpose, or to
little in relation to man, that the emanations of
light had passed and repassed, from side to side
of the universe ; for until of late, that is to say,
the last three or four centuries, it was not cer­
tainlyknown whether this earth (itselfunexplored)
was not the only scene of life, and whether the
sun, the stars, and the planets were any thing
more than brilliants, floating in the upper ether.
A revolution in the intellectual world, affecting
our notions and modes of thinking on many
subjects, has been gradually produced by the
discoveries, and by the full authentication of the
modern astronomy ;# and it may welh be conjec­
tured that certain momentous consequences of
this great advancement of science have not
yet been developed. Minds unfriendly to all•
• Tiie eloquent and important Astronomical Discourses of Dr.
Chalmers ought here to be named as having given both an impulse
and a direction to religious meditation in connexion with subjects of
this class.
O 2
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
196 PHYSICAL THEORY
religion, and to Christianity especially, confidently'
anticipate the shaking of popular belief by this
very means; and it is just possible that a course
of conduct, on the part of the champions of reve­
lation, analogous to that pursued by the Romish
church toward the first promulgators of just
notions of the universe, might produce very
lamentable effects upon the religious convictions
of many. But that any such course will actually
be adopted is not to be supposed; oh the con­
trary, it is fairly to be expected that, by the
turning of thoughtful minds, again and again to
the subject, a happy coalescence of all great
truths— physical and religious, will at length be
brought about, and such as shall tend powerfully
to enhance the serious influence of the latter,
and as shall accelerate the general prevalence of
piety— the piety of the scriptures.
When once religious principles have taken full
possession, as well of the understanding, as of
the moral faculties, we may with perfect tranquil­
lity pursue speculations of any kind that seem
likely to enlarge our conceptions of the system
within which we are moving. Such speculations
can never rob us of our firm property in the
highest truths, or disturb our enjoyment of them ;
but they may serve to deepen, tenfold, our ordi­
nary impression of the awful import of those
truths. Christianity is not endangered, but it
may be more forcibly impressed upon all minds,
in consequence of the converging of truth iron*
all sides upon the one practical inference, which
Digitized by Google
should impel us instantly to conclude friendship
with the Creator and Ruler of all worlds.
All truths shall at length be one; there shall
be one philosophy, and one religion, nor is it
difficult to trace the actual progress of the
human mind toward this desirable consummation.
Would it not be unbecoming for religious men
to attribute to chance those signal improvements
in the mechanic arts which have given certainty
to modem astronomy ? Without the aid of the
elaborate instruments of observation, the calcu­
lations and theories of abstract science could
never have been put to the proof of a comparison
with facts, and therefore could never have pos­
sessed the authority of actual science. Far from
being inclined to boast in these instances of the
skill and sagacity of man, we devoutly admire
the providence of God, which, after long delays,
has at length conferred upon mankind the means
of obtaining a just, though incomplete knowledge
of his vast dominion! and we now look with
confidence for such further extensions of our
philosophy as are needed for bringing all our
notions, from whatever source derived, into a
happy unison.
The moment chosen for giving Christianity to
the world, at first, was that in which learning
and civilisation, in all kinds, had reached their
highest point, and were more widely diffused
than at any preceding time; nor is it unrea­
sonable to suppose that the happy moment
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 197
Digitized by G o o g l e
198 PHYSICAL THEORY
predestined for the general promulgation and
triumph of this same Christianity shall be that in
which the substantial andwell-ascertainedsciences,
haying passed their season of debate and conjec­
ture, shall be advancing, not as heretofore by
revolutions and shocks, but by continual acces­
sions, and when having ïeachéd the popular
mind, all shall be prepared to admit, and to feel
the force of the great moral inference that is yet
to be drawn from them. This sort of coales­
cence of great principles is not indeed to be
expected to take place in a moment, or as the
consequence of the discoveries or reasonings of
any one mind ; but it may draw on by insensible
means, and be promoted by this, that, and the
other, unnoticèd agency. In expectation of it
we may be feeling our way onward a little, in
advance of our actual position ; and this must be
done by entertaining Buch hypothèses as seem
consonant with known facts, and which hypo­
theses will open up untrodden ground, ahd
enable us to improve every new indication of
things as yet unknown.
Ahd in this place again, the author must urge
the reader to bear constantly in mind what are,
and what are not, the legitimate uses of hypo­
thesis, in philosophical pursuits. An hypothesis
then, however plausible, is never to be ranged
along with truths ; or classed with things Well
proved; or suffered to fill a vacuity in our
systems until it may be displaced by & better
theory, or by ascertained facts. This was the
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 199
illusive practice of the ancient theorists ; but it
is now exploded. Hypothesis is a preparation
fo r reasoning— a preparation which shall save
time, and prevent the overlooking of any facts
that may hereafter present themselves, and
which, should they occur, will instantly be noted
and turned to the best account, as tending either
to confirm, or to explode the supposition already
advanced. To use a familiar illustration, well-
devised hypotheses are labelled drawers, always
ready for the reception of facts fortuitously pre­
sented. In those branches of science which are
open to experiment, it is hypothesis that leads
the way in every instance.
In relation to our immediate subject, namely,
the connexion between the scheme of the mate­
rial universe, and the destinies of the human,
and of other rational orders, it may be stated as
possible that some of those revolutions and cata­
strophes which have actually, and frequently, in
the course of ages, been observed to take place
in the remoter regions of the heavens, such as
the sudden combustion of stars, and their extinc­
tion, or the appearance of new stars, may, any
day, take place nearer home, and within such
distances as should allow of their being distinctly
observed. Now, on the supposition of such an
event, it is possible that new views of the consti­
tution and destinies of the universe might be
thereby suggested ; and in that case, the having
entertained more than one hypothesis on the
subject, would be à preparation for turning the
Digitized by G o o g l e
200 PHYSICAI, THEORY
actual facts to the best account ; and would also
quicken and animate our observations. <
There are two facts, each of which is significant
in relation to our present subject, and of which
the first has long been understood, while the
latter, (only of late ascertained) ip every day
receiving new illustrations, namely, That our
planet is, in no sense, of primary importance in
the general system, or entitled, by its magnitude*
or its position, or its constitution, to he consi­
dered a£ exerting any peculiar influence over
others ; or as the object of more regard than
any others. This knowledge of our real place
and value in the universe is a very important
consequence of our modern astronomy* and
should not «
be lost sight of in any of our specula­
tions. But then it is also now ascertained that
the great laws of our own planet, and of the
solar system to which it belongs, prevail in aU
other and the most remote systems, so as to
make the visible universe, in the strictest sense,
o n e sy st e m — indicating one origin, and showing
the presence of one Controlling Power, Thus
the law of gravitation, with all the conditions it
implies, and the laws of light, are demonstrated
to be in operation in regions incalculably remote ;
and just so far as the physical constitution of the
other planets of our system can be either traced,
or reasonably conjectured, it appears that, amid
great diversities of constitution, the same great
principles prevail in all ; and therefore our further
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. SOI
conjecture, concerning* the existence of sentient
and rational -life, in other worlds, is borne out
by every sort of analogy, abstract and physical:
and this same rule of analogy impels us.to sup­
pose that rational and moral agents, in whatever
world found, and whatever diversity of form may
distinguish them, would be such that we should
soon feel ourselves at home in their society, and
able to confer with them— to communicate know­
ledge to< them, and to receive knowledge from
them. Neither truth nor virtue.is local; nor
can there be wisdom and goodness in one planet
which is not wisdom and goodness in every other-
We must believe that rational and moral inter­
course would be practicable, where physical cor­
respondence might be impossible', for while our
animal organization demands a specific tempera­
ment of the elements, and can act only within a
narrow circle, the intellectual faculties, on the
contrary, and the moral emotions, are capable of
adapting themselves to every imaginable variety
of circumstance, and can always embrace and
coalesce with universal principles. Hence .it
might well happen that, in worlds where we
could neither respire, nor stand upright» nor
endure the heat, or the cold, in worlds where our
bodies would instantly congeal, or would as sud­
denly be evaporized, we might yet, if freed from
these organic difficulties, make ourselves one with
the rational tribes of those, worlds. For the
purpose therefore of bringing all such tribes into
correspondence, and of blending them in a social
Digitized by G o o g l e
202 PHYSICAL THEORY
economy, nothing would be necessary but to
give them severally a corporeal constitution inde­
pendent of telluric peculiarities of temperature,
density, and atmospheric influence.
Our involuntary impression that other worlds
differ vastly from our own, in the modes of life
they contain, is so strong that, perhaps, if tran­
sported to some neighbouring planet, we should
feel far more amazement in meeting there with
beings precisely like ourselves, than in encoun­
tering the strangest and most grotesque forms,
that can be dreamed of. Yet, whether brethren
in figure and countenance, or not, it is not pos­
sible to doubt that all, in all worlds who are ca­
pable of reason, and are open to moral affections,
are tending, though at different rates, toward the
same eternal truths, and are made amenable to
one law, mid one principle of government.
But shall not those who are brethren, some
day come to be companions; or at least to know
of each other’s existence and well-being ? Many
reasons may be adduced strongly tending to
suggest the belief that all races, holding to the
same principles of reason and virtue, shall at
some, perhaps remote era of their existence, be
brought to compare histories, and so to receive
the benefit severally of their common experience.
The present construction of the material universe
is plainly marked with the intention to prohibit
intercourse; but this vast framework is a means
only to a higher end; and in the twinkling of
mi eye it may give place to another order of
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 203
things: or another order of things may even
now, although to us occult, be actually in play;
as we shall presently have to state.
The principle of insulation may long prevail;
and yet at length give way to the higher and
better principle of communion, and of free inter­
course. Thud it has actually been with the
human family. During many centuries the se­
veral :tribes of men— remote in position, knew
little or nothing of each other; nor had they
any extended or useful correspondence. Exten­
sive empires remained secluded, during their
long terms of wealth and power, and passed
away, leaving barely a memorial of their exist­
ence. But now, at length, all nations are drawing
close the bonds of brotherhood: there are no
longer any vast unexplored regions, imprisoning
their inhabitants: commerce, the spirit of ad­
venture, and the spirit of benevolent enterprise,
are fast connecting all with a ll; and it is now
within the prospect of the human family to con­
stitute— not indeed one political structure, but
one family, cherishing peace from a sense of
interest, and a sense of justice; and mu­
tually promoting the advance one of another,
as the surest means of prospering severally.
Intercourse and combination must be the ulti­
mate condition of those who are by nature
capable of society. Insulation and variance are
unnatural, and must be temporary.
Species incapable of entertaining abstract
notions, and therefore incapable of generalisa­
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
tion, and of adapting themselves to any new
order of things, and incapable, for the same
reason, of progress, can have nothing to gain,
either from intercourse with any other species,
or from intercourse with new masses of then*
own species. To such, the results of individual
experience can never be added to the common
stock of knowledge or of skill. But herein the
human species stands immensely above the level
of all the tribes of earth. Except by corre­
spondence with his fellows, man knows nothing,
and can do nothing; but by the aid of this
correspondence, a common fund of intelligence
is formed, which does, or which may, constantly
increase, and increase without limit. And how
much of improvement and of advancement may
spring from the residence of an individual only,
belonging to a more civilized community, among
a less civilized community! Such a visit, made
under auspicious circumstances, may raise the
nations of a continent from semibarbarism, to
the highest pitch of refinement.
So far as we see or know, correspondence and
interchange of knowledge, among races that have
made unequal progress, is the one and the only
means of advancement, which the great prin­
ciples of the intellectual system admit of. The
Ruler of all worlds does not immediately instruct
any in what it most concerns them to know, and
because it does not consist with the laws of his
government to afford any such direct information,
£04
Digitized by GoogI<
or ANOTHER LIFE. 205
tribes remain ignorant, from age to age, of the
simplest and most necessary truths. But it does
consist with these laws to allow the better in­
formed to mix with the ignorant, and to diffuse
the benefits of their acquirements.
It may reasonably be doubted whether the
highest and the most occult truths are in any
way at all to be apprehended and made iiitelli-
gible, except as they may slowly be gathered, in
the way of induction, from a copious acquaint­
ance with facts within the circle of which those
abstruse principles may be seen to work them­
selves out. The history of only one rational
family cannot, probably, in the nature of things,
carry us further than to the extent of a very
partial knowledge of the laws of the moral
universe. But the history and experience of
one other such family, would serve to expand
vastly our conceptions, and to place the whole
of our previously acquired moral notions in a
new light, or to bring them into a new relative
position. If permitted to take our standing at
two distant points, in the great circle of the
social system, we should gain a parallax, and
thenceforward should have the means of mea­
suring the distance between ourselves and the
centre of all, with some certainty.
And the advantage accruing from correspon­
dence with one other race, would no doubt be
multiplied in extending our acquaintance with
many others. Yet even this accumulation of
substantial knowledge might long fall short of its
Digitized by G o o g l e
«06 PHYSICAL THEORY
consummation, and we might be conscious of a
want of symmetry in our notions, without the
power to supply the deficiency. But in some
remote quarter of the universe, and perhaps in
some obscure world, there may have been a train
of events, altogether peculiar, and such, that this
single history would develop the master prin­
ciple of the divine government, and would
supply the key to all difficulties. Until this one
race has been conversed'with, and its history
perused, all races, perhaps, may vainly ponder the
reasons of the procedures of the Supreme Power*
,
nevertheless the actual publication of this clearing
instance may depend (as we speak) upon an acci­
dent, and may be delayed, through cycles of ages.
Our general and hypothetic conclusion is this,
and it may be expressed in two propositions,
namely, first, That as beings endowed with the
faculty of abstraction and generalization are
thereby made capable of indefinite improvement
through the means of intercourse, individually,
and also species with species, such intercourse is
to be regarded as probably coming within the
ultimate intention of the divine administration
toward them ; for otherwise these intellectual
powers would fall short of their highest use; and
secondly, That as a comprehensive knowledge of
the principles of the moral system is probably not
to be obtained in any other manner, than through
a process of extensive induction from actual focts,
even the most virtuous and rational minds must
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 207
for ever remain bewildered and distressed, in rela­
tion to the divine government, unless intercourse
at large with other races of moral beings is to be
allowed in a future stage of our existence.
We have then before us, on the one hand,
the very strong abstract probability that a race
capable, by the faculties conferred upon it, of
indefinite advancement, and of rising to the very
highest range of generalization, shall at length
come into correspondence with other rational
orders, and perhaps with all. On the other hand,
we have, not merely the instinctive expectation
of another and a higher mode of existence, but
the divinely authenticated assurance that the
rational universe comprises a lower and a higher
species of corporeity ; and that a transition from
the lower to the higher actually awaits the human
family. Now when these two principles are- com­
bined, it is almost inevitable that we should
indulge some conjectures concerning the mate­
rial universe, considered as the theatre of a
great intellectual economy, and as framed mainly,
though by no means exclusively, for the purpose
of giving effect to the laws and ultimate intention
of the moral world.
The various conjectures which offer themselves
to our choice on this ground, seem reducible to
three distinct suppositions, each of which is sus­
tained by a degree of probability ; and perhaps
after stating them in order, we may be inclined
to think that a combination of the three is more
likely to be near the truth than any one by itself.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
308 PHYSICAL THEORY
C H A P T E R X V I.
THE FIRST CONJECTURE CONCERNING THE MAtE-
RIAL UNIVERSE» VIEWED AS THE THEATRE' OF
AN INTELLECTUAL SYSTEM.
Having before us the assumed (and the attested)
fact that there are now in the universe) two
great classes of rational beings, both corporeal,
but the corporeity of the one dissoluble, and that
of the other incorruptible ; and then taking a
glance, at the great siderial economy, consisting
as it does of two classes of bodies, the one subor­
dinate to, and wholly dependent upon the other.>
and this other apparently adapted to a much
higher mode of existence than the former* the
supposition almost forces itself upon us^ that,
while the planets are the places of animal orga-;
nization, and the schools of initiation to -all
rational orders, the sun, of each such system, is
the abode and home of the higher and ultimate
spiritual corporeity, and the centre of assembly
for those who have passed their preliminary'era
upon the lower ranges of creation. ¡ . í
It is surely impossible to admit the suppositien
that the sun is the mere lamp and hearth of
the planetary system, or only the swivel of its
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 209
revolutions! This were much the same thing as
if, in viewing from a hamlet on a mountain side,
the distant metropolis of an empire, the gilded
domes of which are refulgent in the beams of
noon, one were to imagine that the great world
is not in that metropolis, but in the dozen of
shepherds’ huts, among which one stands.
Recent discoveries make it more than barely
probable that the solar surface, shrouded from
the vertical rays of the upper and phosphorescent
atmosphere, by an intermediate nebulous stratum,
dense enough to moderate the intensity, as well
of light as of heat, may sustain life not less *
readily than the surface of M ercury; and that
in feet, the temperature maybe lower on the
former than it is on the latter. But even this
probability is not necessary to our conjecture,
inasmuch as the assumption that any thing be­
yond a certain intensity of light and heat must
be incompatible with life, is gratuitous.
But we must not fail here to point out one
leading circumstance in which the solar surface
is distinguished from the planetary surfaces, con­
sidered as adapted to the support of corporeal
life— a circumstance so highly significant, as
almost, in itself, to involve the very points of
difference which we have supposed to distinguish
animal from spiritual corporeity; and it is this—
That while the surfaces of the planets, and all
the vegetable and animal species thereon subsist­
ing, are liable to an alternation of heat and
cold, of light and darkness, and therefore live
p
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
through returning periods of excitement and
r
e
p
o
s
e
,, and this both diurnal and annual ; the
surface of the sun, with the species it may sup­
port, is uniformly and perpetually exposed to
its maximum of heat and light. That is to say,
the solar tribes, vegetable and animal, instead
of passing, at regular intervals, from stimulus to
exhaustion— from activity to rest, sustain (if we
should say sustain) an equable impulse, from the
external elements. But stimulus and excitement
are conditions of existence, implying inertia and
decomposition ; and where there is no such alter-
• nation of action and inaction, we may assume
that there is neither a spending of forces, nor a
dissolution of structure. Thephysicalidea of solar
life, followed out on the apparent fact of the unin­
termitted intensity of light and heat, and implying
also the constant action of all powers dependent
thereupon, will amount to little less than to a con­
ception of incorruptibility, and immortality.*
• To exclude objections against our present hypothesis, it should
be stated that, by the revolution of the sun upon its axis, and by the
inclination of its axis, all parts of its surface are exposed to our
observation; while at the same time, by the frequent breaking out
ofspots in all parts of its equatorial zone, the physical constitution
ofthe whole is, to a certain extent, laid before us ; nor is it hardly
possible to suppose any thing else than that the solar surface,
although there may be, and probably are, irregular variations
of temperature upon it, arising from the accumulation or the dis­
persion of the intermediate reflecting stratum, is yet every where,
and always acted upon by so much of the phosphorescent fluid as
penetrates that stratum; nor can we believe that there is any
thing resembling a regular alternation of light and darkness—of
cold find heat* The variations may be such as we are conscious of
during a summer’s day; but not such asdistinguish midnight from
noon, or winter fromsummer.
210
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
This might indeed be inferred, by contrast,
from a consideration of what we see to be
involved, as it respects vegetable and animal
organization, in the diurnal and annual altema-
tions of light and temperature. An argument
of this sort can here be only briefly stated, and
must then be left with the reader, to admit or
reject it as he may please. The supposition may
be placed on different grounds, as thus:— It is
certain that a perpetual day, and a perpetual
summer (other consequences not now regarded)
would very quickly exhaust the forces of all ter­
restrial orders, both vegetable and animal, and
must bring all kinds of life, as constituted on
this planet, to a close. Life, constituted so as to
endure an unvaried intensity of light and heat,
must be framed on a principle the very opposite
of that which here prevails ; and is this opposite
any other than that of incorruptibility, and of
en internal force, not dependent upon excite­
ments, or renewable by an extraneous pabulum ?
Or thus— -and to coniine our attention to thé
huihan system : The relative forces of thte mind
and body, or what may be called the corporeal
equipoise, is such as that the voluntary animal
functions are not commensurate with the mental
activity; and the disparity between the two is
made up by imposing upon the mind a long
and frequently recurring season of inaction,
in sleep, during which, being restrained from
making ény demand upon the corporeal mecha­
nism, the latter replenishes its stock of excitability,
p 2
211
Digitized by Google
212 PHYSICAL THEORY
which again, and very soon, is to be spent*
There is therefore a want of balance between
two combined powers— a want supplied by means
of the collapse or confinement of the power
which would outrun its colleague. But an
essential inequality of this sort can never be so
exactly adjusted as that the one force will not,
by a little, surpass the other; and this daily
increment, small as it may be in each instance,
must at length overthrow the equipoise entirely;
— so that the defective power will at last give
way, and be broken up. We consider it as cer­
tain that death must ensue, sooner or later,
to any being whose constitution combines two
unequal forces, the inequality of which has to be
remedied by imposing frequent cessations upon
the stronger o f the two. The life therefore of
all planetary species, that is to say, of all species
exposed to the alternations of light and .darkness,
and which, in conformity with this alternation,
live by turns, waking and sleeping, is a life
tending to dissolution. But the solar species
are not exposed to any such alternation, and as
they live without repose, may be, and probably
are— immortal.
Yet let this incorruptibility and immortality be
thought of apart from those religious associations
which the words are apt to call up. Incorrupti­
bility and immortality, we are. used to think of,
only in connexion with the Christian hope of
a better life, and as the reward of the good*
But the exemption of life from corruption and
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 213
dissolution may now be enjoyed, as a com­
mon thing, within the limits of the system, of
which our globe is a member. Disorganization
and death are accidents of life— accidents, un­
avoidable indeed upon the planetary surfaces;
but not so perhaps upon the solar: and upon
the latter it may be as unnatural to die, as upon
the former it is unnatural long to live.
Moreover, as we seldom if ever think of incor­
ruptibility and immortality except as the inhe­
ritance of human nature, and of the higher
orders of beings, we may be led, by a conjecture
such as the one now in hand, to enlarge the
range of our conceptions of the material universe,
and to indulge the bright and happy supposition
of fair fields of life and bliss, in all grada­
tions, from the lowest species to the highest;
and all freed from the law of preying one upon
another, and of death. With these ideas before
us, and on the belief that solar life, as compared
with planetary life, is of this better and higher
sort, let the universe be contemplated, and let
us admit the exhilarating conception that the
millions upon millions of suns filling the im­
mensity of space, are spheres, not only of perpe­
tual day (as is manifest) but of undecaying life!
During this, our planetary stage of existence,
we have our lodging in the murky suburbs of
creation; but yet a distant view of royal palaces
and gardens of delight is afforded to us, nor are
we left without signifipant indications of what is
there to be found.
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
There maybe those perhaps, who would resent
it as a trivial and unworthy supposition that a
heaven can be any thing* except a grave convo­
cation of rational worshippers, convened in per­
petuity upon ethereal clouds, and occupied for
ever in one and the same ecstatic manner. But
having this mundane portion of the creation
under our eyes, we are impelled to conceive
very differently of the universe, and of the prin­
ciples which will be found to prevail throughout
it; Is it not the style and mode of the Supreme
Creative Intelligence to take the widest range,
and to include endless varieties and interminable
gradations of power and faculty in the circle of
his works? Nothing of that stern pursuit of
single purposes which belongs to ourselves, when
intently moved, seems to attach to the creation.
Man is absorbed in his immediate object, if that
object be important in his view; but God is
always at leisure^ and while accomplishing the
stupendous purposes of the moral and spiritual
schème, finds time and means for replenishing
the elements with insect life, and for decorating
all surfaces with gay vegetation.
How very far is it from being true, for ex­
ample, within the vegetable kingdom, that no
ends are kept in view beyond the mere subser­
viency of each order and species to the uses of
the orders next above it I On the contrary, there
is every where a free exuberance, a copiousness,
a versatility, and an unchecked love of embel­
lishment and beauty, such as put shame on the
*214
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 215
supposition that the rule of a dry utility has
been followed as the law of the creation. In
truth the uses which any one species may be
thought to subserve appear, most often, to be
adjunctive, and seem an accidental circumstance,
thrown in upon the main design. But if a prin­
ciple so rich and free be indeed the law of the
Creative Power, it will show itself in all worlds;
and most of all in those warm and resplendent
spheres where the elementary conditions are
such as peculiarly to favour its development.
The prejudices (not perhaps very culpable) of
a somewhat morbid spirituality, would perhaps
lead us to distate the animated world around us,
as God’s work,* or to be scandalized at some of
its conditions; and thus it is conceivable that the
realities of the upper world, when first they open
upon minds imbued with prepossessions of this
•kind, may excite a recoil and an amazement, that
will try the principles of piety. Let it just be
conceived of that a spirit, born and trained in
some pure ethereal region of reason and love,
and where no orders of creatures inferior to itself
had ever been seen or heard of, and where the
* The ancient manichean doctrine gave a bold and distinct
expression to this order of prejudices; and it was plainly avowed,
by the authors of that system, that they could not admit the pre­
sent world, with its animal species, to be the work of supreme
benevolence, wisdom, and purity. Nothing is more dangerous than
to indulge notions which tend to make us think our tastes and prin­
ciples more refined and elevated than those of the Creator and
Ruler of the universe. Something of this infatuation very com­
monly besets ardent and abstracted minds.
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
216 PHYSICAL THEORY
attributes of Deity, in the most abstract mode of
their expression, had alone been contemplated;
let it be supposed that such a spirit was told it
should be taken where the Creative Power had
put itself forth in quite another maimer; and then
that it should be brought, without further pre­
paration, to this planet of ours, and be placed in
the depth of a teeming wilderness of the torrid
zone; and there led to examine, not only the
luxuriance and beauty of the vegetable orders,
but the forms, instincts, habits, of the insect
tribes, and of the reptiles, the birds, the quad­
rupeds, which people the sultry forest. Now
although ourselves, with the preparation we have
gone through, are in position to admire these
various orders, and in fact to derive from tins
very source, a main portion of the evidqpce of
natural theology, may it not be imagined that, to
a pure spirit, such as we have here supposed, the
effect of the whole exhibition, and of all its1
details, would be to generate a sort of wonder,
not unmixed with perplexity, and even distress?.
Something perhaps analogous to this may await
the human mind when, after having entertained
abstract notions of the Divine Nature, and m
forming which we have consulted our own narrow
conceptions of what ought to be, rather than coolly
considered what is,we are introduced into ano
domain of God s universal empire, where, in­
stead of the meagre and colourless outline which
had stood before our poor imaginations, we
behold the rich and various products. of the
Digitized by CjOOQle
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
Infinite Intelligence; all indeed bright and good;
— but good in a sense related to infinite, not to
finite reason. Now the products of infinite
power and absolute wisdom not merely surpass
our powers and our notions in dimensions, but
in kind also, and in leading principles. That is
to say, the universe is not only more vast than
we can measure or. conceive o f; but it is more
various than we .are apt to imagine ; and more­
over it involves and exhibits motives or reasons
of procedure, such as would by no means have
occurred to us, as natural, or as abstractedly
probable, considered in relation to what we
assume concerning the divine attributes.
Now to revert a moment to our present con­
jecture, concerning the construction and inten­
tion of the visible universe, there are some
perhaps who, in the loftiness of their religious
conceptions, would resent, as totally unworthy
and grovelling, the supposition that the sun of
our own system, and that each sun of each
system, is a heaven to its planetary tribes, and
that this solar heaven is stocked with various
orders of sentient beings. Let then the suppo­
sition be discarded by those who distaste it, and
assuredly the author has no fond anxiety to
defend and retain i t ; nor does he attach any
value to it, otherwise than so far as it may
serve a purpose which he deems in some degree
important, namely, that of tending to bring
our religious conceptions into definite alliance
with the real world, and with nature, mid to
2 17
Digitized by Google
£18 PHYSICAL THEORY
break up, a little, those vague and powerless
notions which place our religious expectations
at a dim remoteness from whatever is substantial
and effective. Let us try to persuade ourselves
that the future and unseen world, with all its
momentous transactions, is as simply natural and
true, as is this world of land and water, trees and
houses, with which now we have to do.
The opinion has been often advanced, and seems
to be gathering strength, that the sun and other
stars, that is to say the entire celestial system
visible to us, is in actual movement, in one di­
rection ; or that it is revolving around a common
centre. But who shall calculate the dimen­
sions of that central mass which may be adequate
to sustain the revolutions of all suns and worlds?
This opinion is just named in this place, that we
may point out its relation to our present conjec­
ture.— If each sun be a place of assembly, and a
home of immortality to the rational planetary
tribes of its system, the vast world around which
all suns are supposed to be revolving, may be
the home of a still higher order of life, and the
theatre of a still more comprehensive convocation
of the intellectual community.
There remains however one point of geolo­
gical and mathematical speculation which ought
to enter into our present conjecture. It is then
believed, on the ground of a calculation of forces,
that our own planet, and others, are not solid
globes, but hollow spheres, or spherical shells
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 219
including a perhaps irregular, but vast cavity,
and this cavity occupied by some elastic fluid or
gas. Does then this inner and hidden world
subserve any purpose connected with the destinies
of those who are treading, or who have trodden
the surface ? or has the dim cavern sentient tribes
of its own ? We do not propose to pursue
the conjecture; but yet must just place it in
apposition with that very ancient, and may we
not say biblical classification of all intelligent
orders, under the three heads of celestials, ter­
restrials, and subterraneans; or as they are desig­
nated by St. Paul, the eirovpavioi, the kirlyeioi, and
the tcaraydovioi*
This classification of intelligent beings, we
should remember, by no means corresponds with
the distribution we are most accustomed to think
of, namely, that which arranges all rational
beings into the three classes of the inhabitants
of heaven, holy and happy;— the inhabitants of
. * Philippians ii. 10; where the universal sovereignty of the Son
of God is distinctly stated as including the three great orders of the
intelligent economy—the heavenly, the earthly, and the subterrene.
This passage should he compared with Romans xiv. 9; where the
eourse passed through by the Saviour of men is declared to have had
a reference to the due exercise of his destined sway over the dead
and the living; or, according to the opinion which the apostle may
be held to adopt and sanction, over the inhabitants of the superficial
world, and of the abyss, or central cavern. Again we should refer
to Revelation v. 3, and 13, where (which is especially to be noted)
the designation of the K
a
r
a
\B
6
vt
ot is varied, and they are described
as those who are viroxarco rtfs yrjs, and where moreover, they are
associated with those who gladly render “blessing and honour, and
glory and power, to him that sitteth on the throne, and unto the
Lamb.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
220 PHYSICAL THEORY
earth, who are on their probation;— and the
condemned and infernal spirits. For, on the one
hand, certain classesof the celestials, Hh&eirovpavioi>
are spoken of by St. Paul as in open opposition
to the divine government,* while, on the other
hand, the infernáis, or the inhabitants of the
nether region, or of Hades, are represented as
the subjects of the Messiah’s kingly function;
and also (as in the passages mentioned in the
note) as joining with the celestials and the ter­
restrials, in an anthem of praise, to God and the
Lamb.
This, however, is not the place for pursuing
any biblical or properly theological question. A ll
we now attempt is just to state the fact, that
there is an apparent or conjectural correspon­
dence between the biblical classification of the
intellectual community, and our hypothesis con­
cerning the three modes of existence which seem
to be provided for in the structure of the mate­
rial universe. If we rightly understand the
affirmations and the intimations of the inspired
writers, man is destined to pass through three
stages of life; the first, upon the surface of the
earth, and subject to the conditions of animal
organization; the second (if we do not mistake
the apostolic words) “ under the earth,” and in a
transition-form, of attenuated and inactive cor­
poreity ; and the third, and ultimate, in a region
of power, incorruptibility, and full activity.
This our first conjecture then, concerning the
* Ephesians vL 12.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 221
material universe, considered as the frame of the
intellectual economy, brings the visible and the
invisible worlds into conjunction in that manner
which, at a glance, offers itself to our acceptance
as obvious and natural. Nevertheless, whatever
may be the pretensions of this hypothesis, we
hold it cheap; and go on to state another, which
may equally well consist with what we are bound
to believe on better evidence.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
222
C H A P T E R X V II.
THE SECOND CONJECTURE.
But we are now to hold in abeyance, or altoge­
ther to exclude the conjecture above stated,
concerning the material universe, as adapted to
sustain three orders of intelligent beings; and
on the contrary, shall assume that planets and
suns alike, and all worlds, visible and palpable,
are the theatres of animal life merely; and that
whatever species may inhabit these spheres, are.
subject to decay and corruption.
This supposed; then our second conjecture is—
That, within the field occupied by the visible and
ponderable universe, and on all sides of us, there
is existing and moving another element, fraught
with another species of life— corporeal indeed,
and various in its orders, but not open to the
cognizance of those who are confined to the
conditions of animal organization— not to be seen,
nor to be heard, nor to be felt by man. We
here assert, and insist upon, the abstract proba­
bility that our five modes of perception are par­
tial, not universal means of knowing what may
be around u s; and that as the physical sciences
furnish evidence of the presence and agency of
certain powers of nature which elude the senses*
Digitized by k ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
except in some of their remote effects, so are we
denied the right of concluding that we are con­
scious of all real existences within our sphere.
Something must presently be said with the
view of loosening the natural prejudice which
impels us to conclude that nothing corporeal can
elude our senses, but first let the conjecture now
in hand be distinctly stated.
There prevails throughout the system of
nature a pervading of the dense elements by the
less dense, or the fluid, or gaseous. Thus all
solid bodies are penetrated, either by humidity,
or by the elastic gases, or by the imponderable
elements, light, heat, electricity, magnetism.
Again, fluids are, in like manner, pervious to
other fluids, with which they may combine; and
also to elastic gases, and to the elements just
named; and in its turn, the rarest gas is
traversed by, and commingled with, other elastic
bodies, and by heat, electricity, or magnetism.
In some cases the pervading element affects the
element pervaded; thus heat expands metals,
and at a certain point fuses them; and so galva­
nism puts into activity the chemical affinities of
many solids and fluids. But in other cases the
pervading element takes its course through the
pervaded body without giving any indication,
uponthat body> of its presence, or of its passage.
Thus electricity may pass, unnoticed, through a
perfectly conducting substance, or the magnetic
attraction takes its way through intervening
223
Digitized by Google
PHYSICAL THEORY
bodies, which in no sensible manner it disturbs;
and thus too does the power of gravitation
take effect at the greatest distances, without
rendering itself sensible in any other manner
than that of effecting an approximation of masses.
But is this constant principle of the visible
world, which shows itself in a thousand modes
around us— is it exhausted and done with, in the
instances which our modern physical discoveries
have brought to light? We should confidently
assume the contrary, and believe nothing less
than that it has a still further and higher play m
relation to the sentient and intellectual universe.
That is to say, we insist upon the abstract proba­
bility of the existence, on all sides of us, of an
invisible element, sustaining its own species of
beings;— some perhaps as slenderly endowed
with rational faculties as are the insect tribes of
earth, and others, in gradation, rising to the
highest pitch of intelligence and moral dignity:—
some accountable and immortal; others ephe­
meral and prompted only by instincts.
Our present conjecture reaches to the extent
of supposing that, within the space encircled by
the sidereal revolutions, there exists and moves
a second universe, not less real than the one we
are at present conversant with; a universe elabo­
rate in structure, and replete with life;— life
agitated by momentous interests, and perhaps by
frivolous interests'; a universe conscious perhaps
of the material spheres, or unconscious of them,
and firmly believing (as we do) itself to be the
224
Digitized by Googl<
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 225
only, reality. Our planets in their sweep dp not
perforate the structures of this invisible creation ;
our suns do not scorch its plains; for the two
collocated systems are not connected by any
active affinities.
We see that the Creator works on a scale
which, in a mathematical sense, is greater than
can be computed or imagined; and that he
advances toward the infinite in both directions;
that is to say, toward the infinitely great, mid
the infinitely small. We see also that the utmost
range of variety, both in principle and form, is
taken in the construction of the sentient system ;
and that the physical capacity of our own world
for sustaining life is enlarged by the suffusion of
element upon element, each peopled with its
animated orders. We are therefore almost com­
pelled to entertain the belief that the very same
law goes on, as far as it can go on, and that the
invisible orders are not less numerous than the
visible. Our sight and touch take us on to a
certain stage of the creation, informing .us of
whatever lies beneath, or upon that stage; and
there they stop. But is the eye of man the
measure of the Creator’s power ?— has he created
nothing which he has not exposed to our senses ?
The contrary seems much more than barely pos­
sible ;— ought we not to think it almost certain?
. In stating the conjecture that the two worlds,
the visible and the invisible, may coexist within
the same space, unconscious of each other, and
Q
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
226 PHYSICAL THEORY
not related by any affinities, we assume what is
abstractedly possible; but should unquestionably
consider as more probable the supposition that the
two orders of existence, whether consciously or
not, on both sides, are yet really related one to
the other, and that in fact the one is an after-stage
to the other. Here again we cling to the aid
furnished in so many cases by actual analogies.
Let it be considered then, that while there is
among many of the terrestrial orders, a tendency
to advance from a lower to a higher mode of
existence, and in all a progression from the germ
to the bud, and from the bud to the fruit, and
from the embryo to the perfect animal; and
while the human mind indicates this law in its
desire of advancement, in the general sentiment
of hope— the most permanent impulse of our
nature, and in its aspirations after immortality;—
while we say there is this upward and onward
tendency in the sentient and rational world, the
desires and propensities of all orders impel them
also in the contrary direction, and lead all to seek
their support, and their gratification, rather
beneath than above the level of their natures,
respectively. This downward tendency is the
most remarkable in man, who is always seen
(
powerful corrective influences apart) to seek his
happiness in a lower range of gratifications.
Man may be destined to rise on the scale of
existence; but his actual disposition is to de­
scend. Indeed when most alive to the elevating
motives of intelligence and piety, he is still, by
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 227
his constitution, and the necessities of his nature,
compelled to converse chiefly with things of a
lower range, and to be employed in affairs little
accordant, apparently, with his high hopes.
Now something akin to this law of attachment
to things beneath us, may affect the invisible
orders. They may, while in progress upward
by d
e
s
t
i
n
y
, yet, by actual instinct and impulse,
be looking downward: they may crowd around
the solid masses of the material universe— as
birds in migration alight upon the sails and
ipasts of ships in the mid ocean ; they may con­
cern themselves with the interests of the planetary
tribes, and make themselves parties in the affairs
of the lower world. All this may be, without
supposing that such supernal beings are actuated
by motives unworthy of their rank; for, as we
see, apart from any degrading sentiment» or
sensual taste, the human mind delights itself in
the order and beauty of the animal creation,
explores too the constitution of the inanimate
world, finds its recreation among the humblest
varieties of the vegetable and animal species,
and especially draws the most refined gratifica­
tions of its rational tastes from the pursuit of the*
mere relations of extension and number 1
We would not follow a too abstruse idea, and
yet are inclined to believe that the very law of
dependent natures, which, apart from the con­
stant energy of the Divine will, would reduce
them to nothing, actually operates so far as to
produce a sort of intellectualgravitation of al
q 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
228 PHYSICAL THEORY
rational beings, toward the lower ranks of exist­
ence. So, while there are impulses bearing us
upward and onward; there is also a uniform
tendency downward, or toward that nihility out
of which we sprang. But this notion we merely
mention, and pass on.
The conjecture of an invisible, sentient, and
rational economy, coexistent with the visible
universe, and occupying corporeally the same
field, comports well enough, as we shall presently
see, with the intimations of scripture concerning
the spiritual world; and it consists also with
every analogy of the physical system, as under­
stood by modern science; for it is ascertained—
that ponderable elements pervade one the other
— that the imponderable pervade all— that diffe­
rent kinds of emanations or vibrations pass and
repass, in the most intricate manner, through
the same spaces, without in the least degree
disturbing each other; and finally, that the most
powerful agencies are in operation around us,
of which we have no immediate , and
which we detect only by deductions from cir­
cuitous experiments. Nevertheless our present
conjecture, although so amply sustained by various
analogies, infringes upon certain natural preju­
dices, which impel us, contrary to the discoveries
of science, to assume that there can be nothing
near us, when we perceive nothing; or that our
senses attach to, and reveal, all species of cor­
poreal existence that come within their range.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
But a little attention to the subject will suffice
to show that this organic confidence is nothing
better than a prejudice; and that it ought to be
set off from our philosophic speculations;— it is
in fact wholly destitute of foundation.
Nothing is easier than to conceive of human
nature as destitute of some one of its faculties of
sensation; and in truth there are frequent in­
stances in which one of the senses is totally
wanting. Now in such cases the mind is cut off
from a possible and real relationship to the mate­
rial system, and goes about conversing with the
exterior world, utterly unconscious of those
properties which should affect the sense it is
deprived of; and in such a case, this individual
mind, unconscious of light, or of sound, or of
tastes, or of odours, is in a position precisely analo­
gous to that in which we assume all human minds,
within the limits of animal organization, to b e :
that is to say, surrounded by properties or powers
of which they have no kind ofperception, and of
which they can form no idea.
In relation to smell and taste, which are the
least constant, or the most occasional of the
senses, and the least extensive in their range,
we can readily conceive of ourselves as destitute
of them entirely; and can also easily grant that
there may be many properties around us, analo­
gous to those made known to us by the gustatory
and olfactory organs, of which we have no per­
ception. We never deem it incredible that
there may be effluvia or sapid substances, such
Digitized by G o o g l e
230 PHYSICAL THEORY
as escape detection by the sihell and taste; on
the contrary, the existence of some such unper-
fceived qualities or substances is very frequently
assumed as probable. We are Somewhat less ready
to imagine that there may be modulations of the
atmosphere of a kind which the tympanum does
hot catch ”
, although it may be proved that the
undulations of sound, like Other undulations,
may so intersect, as to annul each other; It is
therefore crédible, not only that there may be
sounds too delicate to affect the human ear; but
also sotinds of a species of which the auditory
nerve is insensible. Sound is conveyed, not by
the - atmosphere on ly; but by other elastic
bodies; ánd by some much more rapidly and
perfectly than it is by the air: as for example, by
water, ice, and timber. In fact, the atmosphere,
although the most usual, is one of the most
sluggish of the conductors of sound.
With thesfe facts under our view, the conjee*
ture comes near to be verified, when we suppose
that there may be an elastic ether, susceptible of
sonóroús vibrations in a still more delicate
manner, and capable of conveying these vibra­
tions much further, and more instantaneously,
than any of the bodies actually known to us.
Or we might go a step further— The sensation
of light is now believed to result from the
vibrations, not the emanations, of an elastic
fluid or ether; but this same element may be
capable of another species of vibrations ; or the
electric, or the magnetic fluids may be susceptible
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 231
of some such vibrations; or an element, as uni­
versally suffused as light, through the universe,
may be the medium of sonorous undulations,
equally rapid and distinct, and serving to
connect the most remote regions of the universe
by the conveyance of sounds; just as the most
remote are actually connected by the passage
of light. Yet the sonorous vibrations of this
supposed element may be far too delicate to
awaken the ear of man; or in fact, of a kind not
perceptible by the human auditory nerve.
We refuse to allow that a conjecture of this
sort is extravagant, or destitute of philosophic
probability: on the contrary, consider it as borne
out, in a positive sense, by the discoveries of
modern science. Might we then rest for a
moment upon an animating conception (aided by
the actual analogy of light) such as this, namely,
that the field of the visible universe is the theatre
of a vast social economy, holding rational inter­
course, at great distances. Let us claim leave
to indulge the belief, when we contemplate the
starry heavens, that speech— inquiry and response
— commands and petitions— debate and instruc­
tion, are passing to and fro : or shall the
imagination catch the pealing anthem of praise,
at stated seasons arising from worshippers in all
quarters, and flowing on with a thundering power,
like the noise of many waters, until it meet and
shake the courts of the central heavens!
But the natural prejudice which stands in the
way of our analogical conjectures is firmer in
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
relation to the objects of sight, than in any
other parallel instance. The vastness of the
field over which the faculty of vision gives us a
command, the precision and permanence of tins
class of onr perceptions, and especially the con­
stant relation subsisting between the senses of
sight and touch (in themselves the most constant
of the senses), so that whatever affects thè latter,
does, or may, affect the former, and the converse
— we say these conditions of the visual faculty
impel us powerfully, and almost irresistibly, to
suppose that nothing corporeal can escape it, and
that where nothing is seen, nothing exists. %
But now is this instinctive persuasion in rela­
tion to sight, at all better founded than we have
admitted it to be in relation to the other senses ?
We are compelled to grant there may be pro­
perties analogous to those that are the objects of
taste and smell, which entirely elude our poweirs *
of perception; nor can we deny the possibility
of there being sonorous vibrations inaudible
degree or kind) to the human ear. What then
are our perceptions of colour and form, but the
consequences of the emanations or the vibrations
of a certain elastic element, as the perceptions of
smell are the consequences of the emanations of
another elastic element? These vibrations of light
are repelled, or repeated, by all bodies which also
affect the sense of touch; and by this double
means we assure ourselves of the presence— the
forms, the distances, of solid and fluid bodies.
Meantime, by other means, we ascertain the
232
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 233
presence of some elements not perceptible by the
touch, and of some that are not perceptible by
the eye; and we have indirect or inductive evi­
dence of the presence of some, in way imme­
diately perceptible* or otherwise to be known
except in their ultimate effects. Thus the pre­
sumption that the eye sees whatever is material,
fails when we examine i t ; nor can we with
reason allow it to influence our conclusions or
conjectures.
The magnetic influence or stream is not pal­
pable, as is a current of water, or of air; nor is
it visible, like the former, but yet it proves its
reality by giving a regular figure to loose par­
ticles of iron, and by sustaining a mass of steel
in contact with the magnet. In this instance,
touch and sight go no further than to make us
acquainted with the product of an occult power*
On the table before us a needle, nicely balanced,
trembles, and turns with constancy towards a
certain spot in the arctic regions; but an iron
box, placed near it, disturbs this tendency, and
gives it a new direction. We assume then the
presence of an element and a power, universally
diffused, of which we have no direct perception
whatever. Now let it be imagined that the
sheets of a manuscript, scattered confusedly ,over
the table and the floor, are seen slowly, and with
a tremulous movement, to be adjusting them­
selves according to the order of the pages, as
already numbered, and that at last every leaf
and every loose fragment has come into its due
Digitized by G o o g l e
234 PHYSICAL THEORY
place, and is ready for the compositor. In such
a case we should assuredly assume the presence
of an invisible rational agent, just as in the case
of the oscillations of the needle, we had assumed
the presence of an invisible elementary power.
Now although, in the one instance, we think
of nothing but what is natural and ordinary,
while in the other we must attribute the facts to
a supernatural agent, and are more startled or
perplexed by the one than the other, is there
any ground whatever for considering the one as
abstractedly incredible, and impossible, while the
other is known to be real and ordinary ? It is true
the one has never happened to ourselves, and the
other frequently or constantly occurs; but if the
senses, all of them together, totally fail to detect the
magnetic power, until by the accident of a balanced
needle it makes itself known, in one of its effects,
may not these same senses also fail in detecting
a sentient and rational power, near to u s; and
whether or not this rational power shall give us
some palpable evidence of his presence? Our
conclusion is that our instinctive persuasion of
the non-existence of that, concerning which none
of the senses afford us any intimation, is a preju­
dice, not entitled to any respect, if it stands in the
way of a belief sustained by independent reasons.
The possibility and probability of the exist­
ence, near us, of invisible sentient beings, may
be stated in another manner. Sensation may
be considered as the product of -two powers,
i
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 235
combined, or acting one upon the other. On the
one side there is the material property— the
emanation or the vibration of ethereal and elastic
elements; and on the other side the percipient
faculty, or the power of being wrought upon by
these material vibrations. Now it is only fair to
suppose that these correlative powers are, at
least, so far analogous, or similar, as that if the
one be invisible, and impalpable, and impon­
derable, the other may be so too. If the
exciting principle, although present, and potent,
may elude detection, in every way, except that
one in which it affects the single sense; may not
the percipient principle be equally invisible, and
impalpable ? To adduce a familiar illustration,
the sGent of musk, powerful as it is, may fill a
chamber, and yet it is totally unperceived by the
eye, and the touch, and the ear, and the taste;
nevertheless it is an energetic influence, although
attenuated in a degree inconceivable; for it will
remain attached to walls and apparel years after
the substance of the perfume has been with­
drawn. Why then should not the olfactory sense
be capable of existing in an equally impalpable
and invisible condition ? or why may it not be
attenuated in an equal degree, and yet retain its
power and reality ? The scent emanates indeed
from a solid and tangible substance; and the sen­
sation is attached to a solid and tangible organ;
but as the actual emanation is invisible and im­
palpable, so may be the perception, and the
perceptive being.
Digitized by G o o g l e
236 PHYSICAL THEORY
The readiness with which wé admit the belief
of a sentient and rational universe, existing on
all sides of us, although unseen, or the reluctance
we féel to admit any such supposition, will be
affected by the notion entertained of the mode
in which the mind occupies, and operates within,
the animal organization ; and especially by our
opinion concerning' the functions of the brain,
and of the nervous system. Thè hypothesis
briefly stated in the third and fourth chapters of
this volume, concerning the muscular power,
and the limitation of perception in the organs
of sense, is open, as the author is well aware,
to objection on the ground of the commonly
received theory of the generation of muscular
motion, and of the office of the sensorium ; and
he is aware too, that a full explanation of his own
views on these subjects— to do any justice to
them, and to set them clear of apparent diffi­
culties, would demand, not merely ample space,
but an elaborate examination of the animal
structure, such as might place the two theories
on a ground of fair comparison. But neither
do the limits of the present essay admit of any
such discussion, nor would it well comport with
the general strain of the work; nor indeed
could it easily be made intelligible to all
readers. Nevertheless a concise statement of
his opinion seems almost necessary to sustain the
author’s conjectures and assumptions, in more
than one or two instances.
The brain is spoken of, as well by anatomists
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 237
and physiologists, as by metaphysicians, as being
not only the seat of the mind, and the organ of
intellectual operations, but as the emanating
centre of those volitions which precede muscular
motion, and as the receptacle of impressions
from the several senses. It is within the brain,
we are told, that the mind converses with the
notices of the external world, conveyed to it by
the nervous chords from the external organ of
each sense; and ;t is within the brain that the
determination takes place to move the limbs, in
this or that direction ; which determination,
when formed, flows down by the channel of the
nerves to the particular muscles the agency of
which is demanded to produce the required line
or circuit of movement.
Now it must be granted, in the first place,
that in the above statement very much more is
assumed than can be supported by any sort of
proof; and therefore very much which is fairly
open to question; and in the second place, that
this same theory of sensation and muscular
action, instead of its being the involuntary dic­
tate of our consciousness, contradicts our impres­
sions, and our natural suppositions; and therefore
is not entitled to our assent unless established
by very satisfactory evidence.
. The author must not be understood as in­
tending that our consciousness, whether mental
or animal, ought to be received implicitly, as an
indication of occult processes; for there are
several familiar instances in which it is unques*
Digitized by G o o g l e
238 PHYSICAL THEORY
tionably fallacious. Nevertheless some degree
of regard should certainly be paid to those invo­
luntary impressions that arise from our organic
sensations; and these impressions are entitled to
be considered as just, until proved to be untrue.
Now, on the very ground of these spontaneous
convictions, let it be granted that the brain is the
seat and centre of all purely intellectual opera­
tions ;— the organ of memory, conception, ima­
gination, reasoning, and of moral sentiment ;
excluding perhaps certain of the emotions, in
relation to which our consciousness does not
very decisively refer them to the brain.
We leave, therefore, the brain in undisturbed
possession of its prescriptive honours, as the
residence of the mind; but the very reason of
the belief that the higher faculties perform their
part within the cranium, if allowed to influence
also our opinion concerning sensation and mus­
cular movement, would lead to a very different
supposition; and assuredly it would never suggest
the notion either of our despatching orders from
the brain, down the spinal chord and crural nerve,
to certain muscles of the le g ; or of our feeling
the pinch of a tight shoe— not in the toe; but
near to where we feel the pinch of a tight hat.
Occult as is the principle of animal life, and
difficult as are all questions relating to the con-
nexion between the mind and the body, it yet
does not appear by any means a hopeless endea­
vour to trace that principle a step further than
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 239
at present it is known. The doing so, in a satis­
factory manner, must involve both a patient and
exact examination of the visible mechanism of
the body, and a sagacious pursuit of every clue
afforded by the innumerable accidents and pecu­
liarities which so often, in an unexpected manner,
reveal the long hidden secrets of nature. Mean­
time different and opposite theories should be
entertained, so that we may be in readiness to
avail ourselves, at a moment, of any such fortu­
nate indications.
As for instance, let us take a glance at the
nervous system, first with the supposition in
view that it is the medium through which specific
volitions are conveyed from the brain to the
muscular mechanism. Now although it would
be unwarrantable to affirm that the conveyance
of distinct volitions through a system of interlaced
chords, such as we find the nerves of muscular mo­
tion to be, is absolutely impossible; it is yet in the
highest degree difficult to maintain our belief of
any such conveyance, while we trace the intri­
cacies, and examine the actual arrangement, of
these chords. Let the axillary plexus be spread
out in its multiform combinations, and the anas­
tomosing branches, and the subsidiary twigs of
the leading chords be examined; especially let
the peculiar structure of the ganglia, as disco­
vered by the aid of the microscope, be under­
stood. Within the plexuses, and in the substance
of the ganglia, the fibrillee, constituting the con­
tributory chords, are intermixed in the most
Digitized by G o o g l e
240 PHYSICAL THEORY
intimate and intricate manner conceivable; and
the entire construction is such as would geepi
fitted, not for the transmission of volitions; ift a
distinct manner, from the brain to the limb y or
for the return of sensations from the limb to the
brain; but for confounding effectively all such
supposed transmissions. Scores of instances
might be specified in which, very remarkably,
provision is made, as if for commingling and
confusing the lines of communication between
the brain and the extremities; and it may boldly
be affirmed that if the office of the nervous net­
work were totally unknown, and unsuspected* the
very last supposition that would be suggested by a
view of its structure would be, that it is contrived to
convey particular volitions to particular muscles.
If the scheme of the nerves be spread out,
and compared with the scheme of the arteries,
or of the veins, in a similar manner exposed,
it appears that there is even more, in the former,
of anastomosis, and more of involution and
intricacy, by plexus and ganglia, and by. retro­
grade ramifications, than in the , two lattftf.
That is to say, in the former, more than ii*4he
latter, provision is made for the uninterrupted
transmission of whatever is transmitted at lar§Q>
to all parts of the extremities, and for its* indis­
criminate, or promiscuous conveyance* I t .Is
plainly a matter of secondary importance to the
limbs whether they receive the requisite supply
of blood through one trunk, or through another ;
so that it does but come in sufficient quantity
Digitized by v^ooole
OF ANOTHER LIFE«
fend with sufficient force; or whether the ex«
pended fluid be returned through one, or through
another canal. And in like manner (and even
more clearly) the main intention of nature in the
arrangement of the nervous ramifications appears
to be, the affording an unfailing supply of some
necessary influence, or ether, to all parts of the
muscular apparatus, by any means, and by all
means ; and so that if one medium of conveyance
should be accidentally compressed, the emanation
may yet reach the parts by some circuit, not
exposed to the same obstruction.
We assume then that, as our consciousness
informs us of no such process as that of the
despatching of volitions to the muscles, so neither
does the construction of the nervous system
indicate its adaptation to a process of this kind;
but the contrary, and in the most decisive manner.
But now let it be supposed (we here confine
our attention to muscular motion) that the
nervous system, connecting the brain and spinal
process with the entire muscular apparatus,
serves no other purpose than that of conveying,
firom the former to the latter, a copious efflux of
(shall we say) galvanic power; which power the
cerebral mass incessantly generates. We then,
ibr simplification* sake, consider the muscles,
those of the arm, for instance, as consisting only
of Sectors and deflectors; or we may'imagine a
single pair of antagonists, of which the one bends,
and the other extends the limb. On our present
R
$41
Digitized by Googl<
M2 PHYSICAL THEORY
supposition then, the brain, by the medium of
the brachial nerves, supplies both these muscles,
evenly and perpetually, with the contractile
excitement, whatever it may be, which shall
enable each, when called upon, to become dense
and tumid in the requisite degree.
What then is volition, but the immediate mental
influence, present in the arm, and determining it
to bend or to straighten ? The mind is not, as we
suppose, the prisoner of the attic story; but is the
occupant at large, of the entire animal organiza­
tion, acting in each part of the structure accord­
ing to the purpose of each:— in the arm and leg,
moving hither or thither, by its inherent power
over matter;— in the skin, in the eye, the ear,
the tongue, the nasal membrane, receiving imme­
diately the impressions of external objects, by its
inherent susceptibility of the properties of matter;
and, let it be granted, within the cranium, carrying
on the higher processes of thought.
The supposition above stated concerning mus*
eular motion requires only an adaptation of
terms in order to apply it to sensation. Instead,
for example, of assuming that the picture falling
on the retina is transmitted, in some incon­
ceivable manner, by the optic nerve to the sense-
Hum, and that there, undisturbed and unmixed,
it delivers itself to the percipient organ, we
imagine that the optic nerve supplies the retina
with a copious and constant stream of the exciting
influence— let it be galvanism, and that the mind,
upon the very bed of the nerve, and where the
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. *43
actual picture, in all its vivid colours rests, con­
verses with it, and that it does so because ft is origi­
nally capable of conversing with light and colours;
although, while lodged in the animal body, it is
restricted from holding any such converse, except
upon the expansion of the optic nerve.
We must go however a step further, and
inquire what probably may be the use, or whenee
is the necessity of the (galvanic) influence ge­
nerated in the brain, and thence conveyed to
the muscles and the organs of sense. Now our
theory involves the supposition that the inherent
percipient faculty of the mind (and the same of
its mechanical power) is so imprisoned within
tike solid substance of the animal body as to be
totally screened from impressions of the external
world, except just so far as this solid substance
may be vehemently stimulated* commoved, and
rendered impressible by the powerful action of
tile (galvanic) fluid. The very same irresistible
agent which compels earths to yield their metallic
bases, and which decomposes what nothing else
can move,* brings the animal fibre, and the reti­
cular expansions of the nerves into a state of
excitability, such as enables them to correspond
to the vibrations of light, or of sound, or to the
chemical properties of sapid or odoriferous
bodies. A ll that the mind needs for sensation
is that the external material vibration, as of
light, sound, &e. should, be responded to by an
internal vibration* or commotion, of the animal
R *
Digitized by G o o g l e
244 PHYSICAL THEORY
substance: but this demands a highly charged
(galvanic) condition of the organ of sense. It is
as if a stretched wire, which faintly corresponds
to a musical note, might be made to do so more
delicately and more forcibly, by making it the
channel of a galvanic current. It is not that
the mind needs this excitement; but the fleshy
organ needs it, in order to its admitting the
external vibratory impression.
The tremendous (voltaic) apparatus which fills
the cranium has relation, as we now suppose, to
the inertness and the inelasticity of the animal
body; and if the mind were imagined to be
corporeally combined with a highly elaistic fluid7
,
or an ether susceptible of the most delicate
Vibrations, there would then be no more occai
sion for the galvanic stimulus: a mind thus
embodied would need no brain, no nerves, no
organs of sense, and no contractile fibres.
The well known effect of galvanism upon the
limbs of a dead animal may, at first, appear not
to comport with the theory we are now pro­
pounding ; for in these instances muscular
motion, which we attribute to the directive
influence of the mind, resident in the limb, is
seen to be produced— not mind, but by the
electric stream* We however gather a direct
confirmation of our conjecture, from these very
facts; which indeed, on due consideration, can
hardly, if at all, be made to consist with the
common supposition of the transmission of Voli­
tions from the brain to the muscles, through
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
the nerves. If. the office of the nerves is to
transmit the will of the mind, distinctively, to
the muscles, we see them, in the case of a
separated limb, transmitting something very dif*
ferent from such volitions— namely, a galvanic
stream ; and yet although the cause is totally
unlike, the effect is the same as if a volition had
been conveyed.
~ But upon our present supposition, what hap
pens in applying the galvanic wire to the sciatic
nerve of a frog, is precisely what we should
expect to happen. That is to say, the nerve, in
this case, conveys the very same element or
energy which it has been wont to convey during
the life of the animal : this exciting agent,
namely, the galvanic fluid, is instantaneously
suffused through the whole Hmb, and is distributed,
in its accustomed proportions, to the entire
system of muscles. But inasmuch as the mind
of the animal has been withdrawn from those
muscles, which, while it was present, either re*
tained them all at rest, or employed one set of
them at pleasure, this sudden chemical exciter
ment, acting simultaneously, and without
tion, upon all9 nothing else can take place but
that the largest and the most powerful muscle of
the limb should carry it against the smaller and
the feebler; and thus, in the instance of the
frog, the limb is forcibly projected from the glass
that had contained it. Its leap is the frog’s most
powerful muscular action ; and therefore the limb,
stimulated to action without the mind~-leaps. /
24Ó
Digitized by Google
246 PHYSICAL THEORY
An analogous effect, as we beMeve, follows in
all cases of the application of galvanism, to
bodies recently d e a d t h u s the rabbit jumps,
and the human countenance is frightfully -con*
Sorted, in consequence of the contraction of
the stronger muscles of the face. If the; weaker
Set of muscles could, in this artificial mariner,
be acted upon, placid and pleasing expressions
would no doubt be produced. In the case of
convulsive affections of the fhce, in the living
body, the distortion arises plainly from tins
very cause, namely, that there is a suffused
muscular excitement, not directed by the mind,
and therefore taking effect upon all the stronger
muscles; while the weaker, instead of being held
in that state of easy counterpoise Which the
mind, when not disturbed, maintains, yield to an
unnatural violence; and therefore do not fill out
the general contour as they do when Under the
command of the Will, but give way with a
tremulous resistance*
That which happens among the muscles when
their contractility is stimulated, apart from the
control of the mind, may be rendered familiarly
intelligible by considering what takes place when
a mast or balk, fixed perpendicularly, is Sup­
ported in three directions by chords, one of these
chords being five times the size of the other two
together. Then, if the three are equally moist*
ened by a sudden shower, the mast is immediately
drawn from the upright, by the large rope}
while the two smaller, its antagonists, either
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 247
loosen their attachments, or are snapped. This
mechanical effect differs little in its proximate
cause from what is observed in cases of epileptic
fits, locked jaw, and mortal convulsions; for
the directive and commanding influence of the
mihd being diverted, or withdrawn, while the
contractile galvanic stimulus continues to flow
from the brain to the extremities, it inevitably
happens that, in each set of antagonists, the
more bulky, or what is equivalent, the more
excitable muscles, prevail over their feebler
partners; and a rigid contraction is the conse*
quence.* Thus the fingers are indented into the
palms* and the temporal and masseter muscles,
the natural power of whieh vastly exceeds that
of the digastricus and platysma tayoides* hold the
lower jaw, as if iron bound, in contact with the
upper. But when the mental disturbance is
remedied, and the voluntary principle returns to
its seat and office, then same force of the
temporal and masseter muscles, equal to 500lbs.
weight, and by no means counteracted by an
equal force in the antagonists, is held in equilibrio,
and in fact is so delicately balanced by the men­
tal authority, as not only to act its part with
precision in the mechanical operation of masti­
cation, but to play in with the exquisite movements
* Spasmodic or convulsive muscular contractions arise, as we
suppose, from the withdrawment of the mind; while the chemical
stimulus continues to flow to the parts affected. On the contrary,
paralytic distortions we attribute to a partial suppression of the
excitement furnished by the brain:— partial, and just enough to
allow the larger and stronger muscles to act.
Digitized by v ^ » o o Q l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
that govern the modulations of the voice. T h e
part performed by the temporal and masseter
muscles, in speaking and singing, might be com *
pared to the service rendered by a powerful and
well-trained horse, required to pull within th e
sixteenth of an inch, and in combination to e
with the power of a dog or of a child: his whole
force is always in readiness; but it is so under
control as to reach the precise limit required,
and yet not to surpass it.
A ll the facts connected with the ascertained
difference between the voluntary and involuntary
muscles, readily fall in with the theory that the
function of the brain, in relation to the mus*
cular system, does not consist in sending forth
volitions; but simply in maintaining a copious
supply of contractile excitement (whether gal­
vanic or not) that the nerves convey this chemical
energy, and disperse it promiscuously, among
the muscles, and that the actual employment of
this force rests with the mind, present, not in
the cranium, but in the limb. • ■
A muscle, the antagonist of which is another
muscle, comes necessarily within the control
of the voluntary principle ; for nothing else
can command i t ; and if this be withdrawn/
a spasmodic contraction of the stronger of the
two is the consequence. But if the antagonist
force be merely mechanical, as it is in the heart,
the stomach, and the intestines, there will take
place an oscillation or alternation between the
two unlike powers: that is to say, the supply of
£48
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHEÀ LIFE. 249
Excitement from the brain beings limited hi quan­
tity, or coming only at a given rate, it will be
e&pended in overcoming the mechanical force*
which, for a moment, gains upon it ; but during
the interval of relaxation, the galvanic excite­
ment has again accumulated, and in its turn
overpowers the mechanical resistance, and mus­
cular contraction ensues.
A too long continued exertion of the volun­
tary muscles produces a painful sense of the
overthrow of the natural equipoise of the
powers. That is to say, the mind has been de­
manding motion at a greater rate than that at
which the brain, in its ordinary state, can furnish
the contractile chemical excitement; and the
limb, drawing this pabulum, as it can, from the
nerves of sensation, and from the surface, a sensé
of pain follows: at the same time the animal
spirits fail. But it is manifest that the mind, as
seated in the brain, has a power of rousing it to
an extraordinary effort, so as to develop a more
than usual amount of the electric element. Thus
a powerful motive for continued exertion, as
when a man, to save his life, is running from his
enemy, disperses for a time the sense of fatigue.
Nevertheless this power of extraordinary gal­
vanic development has its limits ; and the brain *
indicates afterwards, the violence which it has
submitted to, and refuses, for a while, to furnish
even its ordinary quantum of chemical power.
The functions of the brain, in relation to the
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, ¡8 * Subject ÌBT to o
difficult and copious to be entered upon in ibis
place ; nor is it in fact so nearly connected with
our proper subject as is the theory of sensation
and muscular motion. In reference to these, we
cannot allow it to be hopeless that some satis*»
factory conclusion should be arrived at. The
proper path of experiment, it would not be very
difficult to mark Out; and there are some means
of bringing the question to the test of facts
which, as the author believes» could hardly fail
to decide it* Let it be for a moment granted
that the function of the brain, in relation to sen­
sation and muscular motion, is simply chemical,
and has respect to the inertness of the animal
substance, and to its low dègree of elasticity; and
then the way will be open for readily conceiving of
other species of corporeity— impalpable, and invi«»
sible ; but not less sensitive, òr less poteht, than is
animal corporeity ; on the contrary, more bo*
If the fiiactions of the brain be only -
ditionaOy necessary, in relation to sensation and
motion, we may easily believe that they are only
conditionally necessary in relation to the more
purely intellectual operations; or in other words»
that there need be no voltaic pile where the
matérial vehicle of tile mind is m itself in a high
degree elastic, and responsive to every kind of
vibration. Let it only he supposed that there
is about us a fluid, the counterpart of that ether»
the vibrations of which give us the sensation of
light— a fluid in an equal degree capable of
250
Digitized by G gle
OF ANOTHER LIFE«
receiving and of transmitting undulations incal­
culably minute and rapid. Mind amalgamated
with such a fluid, might be immediately conver­
sant with all the properties of matter; and even
much more intimately and extensively conversant
with them than it can while it depends for its
sensibility upon the constancy and amount of the
galvanic element.
This imperfect statement of a conjecture con*
earning the office of the brain and nerves»
although it may seem a digression from the im­
mediate subject of the present chapter, is not
really so, since it opens the way for our conceiv­
ing of what, on the ground of scriptural evidence,
we have reason to think is real-—namely, the
repletion of the visible universe with invisible
corporeal beings ; and it may incline us the
more readily to admit the belief that the creation,
beside its sentient orders, connected with animal
organisation, abounds with tribes, sentient and
rational, whose corporeity is impalpable and
invisible, and who are the tenants of what, in
our accommodated sense, may be called, a
quintessence.
These invisible orders, besides the impulse of
their instincts and their interests, may, by physical
neeesnty, and perhaps by their liability to gravid
tation (however attenuated their substance) be
gathered around the solar and planetary bodies;
so that each world may have its own ethereal
nations, as well as its terrestrial, or rather its
animal species; each planet, as well as our own,
£51
Digitized by Google
«5« PHYSICAL THEORY
may have its erroupavioi, its *r and its
tcarayBowiou
In collating these speculations with the general
tenor and the particular testimony of the scrips
tures, it may be well to keep in mind a principle
which seems pretty well sustained •
>
— That the
inspired writers always hold close to mundane
affairs, and intend to speak only of the history
and destinies of the families of earth; seldom,
if ever, opening to us a wider prospect* On the
strength of this principle, we may then assume
the probability that the spiritual beings, good
and evil, spoken of in the scriptures, are all, or
most of them, of mundane origin ; and although
some may now move in a wider circle, that they
have sprung from this soil. Are there reasons
for supposing that the solid materials of our
planet have served purposes in a period anterior
to the birth of the human family ? Such a belief
we do not regard as contradictory to any scrip­
tural doctrine; or to the Mosaic history of the
creation. But if so, these pre-adamic families,
like the children of Adam, may have acquitted
themselves variously during their term of animal
existence, some having broken their allegiance
to the Supreme Power, while others have pre­
served virtue and loyalty. Yet both may
(whether constantly or not) attach to the scene
of their early history, and mingle themselves
with the destinies of their successors. Hence
the conflicts and the commotions, the beneficent
Digitized by v ^ » o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE.
agencies, and the malignant influences, to which
the inspired writers are ever and again making
allusion. But this entire subject, considered as
a matter of biblical inquiry, urgently demands a
new investigation, under the guidance of those
careful and yet free principles of interpretation
which have lately been coming into operation.
This however, in the meantime, may be said,
that, should a rational and laborious examination
of the scriptural evidence relating to invisible
orders, lead to a revival of the belief of Christians,
and to the refreshment of their fading impres­
sions— fading because in their original state
superstitious and exaggerated,— should tins take
place in connexion with a better understood
theory of intellectual existence, very important
consequences might be the result; and all reli­
gious minds, awakened to a sense of the simple
reality of the spiritual dangers we are exposed
to, as tenants of this haunted planet, would be
impelled, with undiverted anxiety, to seek safety
where always it is to be found.
But we must return upon our path for a
moment, and briefly state, the bearing of this
branch of our general theory upon the notions
we may entertain concerning the condition of the
human soul upon the dissolution of the animal
structure ; and concerning the state of that vast
-congregation which has been swelling with its
thousands daily, during the course of nearly sixty
centuries.
253
Digitized by Goog[<
254 PHYSICAL THEORY
The belief of the snrvivanoe of die living prin­
ciple and consciousness, after the dissolution ô f
the animal organization, the author, for his ow n
part, would always derive from those moral and
religious considerations, and from that explicit
divine testimony which appeal to our highest and
purest sentiments« As to the pretended demon­
stration of immortality, drawn from the assumed
simplicity and indestructibility of the soul, as an
immaterial substance, they appear either alto­
gether inconclusive, or if conclusive, then such
as must be admitted to apply, with scarcely
diminished force, to all sentient orders ; and it
must be granted that whatever has frit, and has
acted spontaneously, must live again and for
ever« We have the best reasons for the confident
expectation of another life ; nor are in any need
to fortify our convictions by aigumeats whida
if valid, prove immensely more than we can
desire to see established, or could persuade
ourselves to think in any degree probable«
There is not in the structure, or the instincts,
or the tendencies of any one of the inferior
animal species, the faintest indication of a renewal
of life, after the extinction of the vital principle.
But it is altogether otherwise with man ; and we
believe him immortal, not because, as itisi pre­
tended, thought and consciousness cannot be
annihilated; but because the intellectual and
moral structures imply an after stage of ex­
pansion»
This then, on higher grounds, granted as
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 255
certain, that man is to survive his animal body,
it is not difficult, in following out the several
principles of our physical theory of another life,
to conceive of an instantaneous transition of the
conscious principle— the life, from the animal
body to a body impalpable and invisible; and
yet not less alive to the material world, but
probably more so. The evidence of the inspired
writings apart, it might easily be supposed that
the human mind, at death, immediately enters
upon its highest and ultimate stage of spiritual
corporeity. But we are not at liberty to assume
so much as this if the doctrine of the New Testa«-
ment on this subject be rightly understood, for it
directs us to look forward to a future and distant
epoch, as the destined day in which human nature
is to put on corporeal incorruptibility; and we are
also taught to think ofthe state of souls, as a state,
not of unconsciousness indeed, but of comparative
inaction, or suspended energy:— it is, so far as
we may gather its conditions from the scattered
intimations of scripture, a transition state, during
the continuance of which the passive faculties of
our nature, rather than the active, are awake;
and throughout which, probably, those emotions
of the moral nature that have been overborne,
or held in abeyance, by the urgent impulses
of animal life, shall take their free course,
and reach their height, as fixed habits of the
mind.
On this supposition then, if it ought to be
called a supposition, which rests with little
Digitized by Google
256 PHYSICAL THEORY
ambiguity upon scriptural evidence, it is plain
that a more attenuated corporeity may be held to
belong to the intermediate and transition state of
human nature, than shall befit its ultimate condi­
tion of full energy and activity. Powers latent
will not need a structure which has relation to
the exertion of powers upon an exterior worlds
The chrysalis period of the soul may be marked
by the destitution of all the instruments of active
life, corporeal and mental. And this state of
inaction may probably be also a state of seclusion;
involving perhaps, an unconsciousness of the
passage of time.
Suggestions such as these should be made no
other use of than that of preparing us to catch,
at all points, the evanescent indications of the
inspired writers, which, in relation to the spiritual
and unseen world, is so given as entirely to
escape the notice of those who listlessly read
what they have been reading from childhood,
under the guidance ofnotions accidentally formed*
It is not until the mind has been quickened by
an intelligent curiosity, and has obtained also
more than one clue to inquiry, by the aid of
hypothesis, that the actual extent to which the
unseen world is opened to us in the scriptures,
is suspected or understood. Let an hypothesis
be utterly at variance with truth, it will yet have
rendered us an important service— and a legiti­
mate service, if it shall have prompted us to
pursue, assiduously, and eagerly, any path of
biblical inquiry. It is* tfn^his very ground that
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 2 5 7
the author would seek an apology for advancing
*the several conjectures that have found a place
in these pages.
A condition of suspended powers, and of desti­
tution, such as we now attribute to the human
soul, through its intermediate period, may very
naturally be imagined to involve a vague, or
perhaps a strong and definite, tendency or appe­
tency, toward the open world of power and
action :— there may be a yearning after the lost
;corporeity, or after the expected corporeity :—
there may be a pressing on toward the frequented
walks of active existence. Now let it be just
imagined that, as almost all natural principles
and modes of life are open to some degree of
-irregularity, and admit exceptive cases, so this
pressure of the vast community of the dead,
toward the precincts of life, may, in certain cases,
actually break the boundaries that hem in the
ethereal crowds, and that thus, as if by accident
and trespass, the dead may in single instances
infringe upon the ground of common corporeal
iife.
A t least let indulgence be given to the opinion
that those almost universal superstitions which,
in every age and nation, have implied the fact of
occasional interferences of *the dead with the
living, ought not to be summarily dismissed as
a mere folly of the vulgar, utterly unreal, until
our knowledge of the spiritual world is so com­
plete as shall entitle us to affirm that no such
interferences can, in the nature of things, ever
s
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
258 PHYSICAL THEORY
have taken place. The supposition of there
being a universal persuasion, totally groundless,
not only in its form and adjuncts, but in its
substance, does violence to the principles of
human reasoning, and clearly is of dangerous
consequence. A n absolute scepticism on this
subject moreover, can be maintained only by the
aid of Hume’s often refuted sophism— That no
testimony can be held sufficient to establish an
alleged fact, at variance with common experience;
for it must not be denied that some few instances
of the sort alluded to, rest upon testimony in
itself thoroughly unimpeachable; nor is the
import of the evidence in these cases at all
touched by the now well understood doctrine
concerning spectral illusions, as resulting from a
diseased condition of the brain. There is a spe­
cies of disbelief, flattering indeed to vulgar intel­
lectual arrogance, but out of harmony with the
spirit and the admitted rules of modernphilosophy.
Whether such and such alleged facts happen to
come to us mingled with gross popular errors,
or not, is of little importance in determining the
degree of attention they may deserve:— one ques­
tion only is to be considered, namely— Is the evi­
dence that sustains them in any degree substantial?
Nor in considering questions of this sort ought
we to listen for a moment to those frequent, but
impertinent questions, that are brought forward
with the view of superseding the inquiry;— such
for example, as these— What good end is an­
swered by the alleged extra natural occurrences ?
Digitized by G o o g l e
OP ANOTHER LIFE. 259
— or, Is it worthy of the Supreme Wisdom to
permit them ? and so forth. The question is a
question first, of testimony, to be judged of on
the established principles of evidence; and then
of physiology; not of theology, or of morals.
Some few human beings are wont to walk in their
sleep, and during the continuance of profound
slumber perform, with precision and safety, the
offices of common life, and return to their beds,
and yet are totally unconscious, when they awake,
of what they have done. Now in considering
this, or any such extraordinary olass of facts, our
business is, in the first place, to obtain a number
of instances, supported by the distinct and unim«
peachable testimony of intelligent witnesses; and
then, being thus in possession of the facts, to adjust
them, so far as we can, to other parts of our
philosophy of human nature. Shall we allow an
objector to put a check to our scientific curiosity,
on the subject, for instance, of somnambulism, by
saying, " Scores of these accounts have turned
out to be exaggerated, or totally u n t r u e — or,
“ This walking in the sleep ought not to be
thought possible, or as likely to be permitted by
the Benevolent Guardian of human welfare?”
Almost all instances of alleged supernatural
appearances may easily be disposed of, either
on the ground of the fears and superstitious
impressions of the parties reporting them; or on
that of the now well understood diseased action
of the nervous system, which, in certain condi­
tions, generates visual illusions of the most
s 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
260 PHYSICAL THEORY
distinct kind. But no such explanation will meet
the many instances, thoroughly well attested, in
which the death of a relative, at a distance, has
been conveyed, in all its circumstances, to persons
during sleep; nor again to those instances in
which some special information, buried in the
bosoms of the dead, has been imparted, in sleep,
to the living. In these cases the singularity of
the facts conveyed, and the impossibility of their
coming through any ordinary channel, ought, on
every principle of philosophy, and of evidence, to
be admitted as furnishing proper proof of an in­
visible interference. The time will come when,—
in consequence of the total dissipation of popular
superstitions, and the removal too of the preju­
dice which makes us ashamed of seeming to
believe in company with the vulgar, or to believe
at the prompting of fear— it will be seen that
facts of this class ought to engage the attention
of physiologists, and when they will be consigned
to their place in our systems of the philosophy of
human nature. Notwithstanding prejudices o£all
sorts— vulgar and philosophic, facts of .whatever
class, and of whatever tendency, will at length
receive their due regard, as the materials of
science ; and the era may be predicted in which
a. complete reaction shall take its course, and the
true principles of reasoning be made to embrace
a vastly wider field than that which may be
measured by the human hand and eye. A reac­
tion of this kind is likely to be set in progress,
or to .be accelerated, by the making some bold
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 261
conjectural excursions beyond the range of
animal sensation ; the consequence of which may
be— not indeed the adoption of any of those
particular conjectures, as true ; but the concen­
tration of philosophic minds upon the facts and
the evidence, that actually come within our
range of observation.
Without entering upon the field of biblical
criticism, which the author, in this essay, pur­
posely avoids, it would not be possible to bring*
satisfactorily, into relation with our theory, the
scripture testimony concerning invisible orders.
There is however a particular branch of that
testimony to which allusion may be made ;—
namely, that which concerns dsemoniacal posses­
sion. Not able in this place to engage in the
argument, as a biblical question, the author
assumes, what he fully believes may be made
good, that the gospel narratives, in these instances,
are of a kind not to be disposed of by the hypo­
thesis of accommodation ; but are of an historical
complexion, such as that if they are rejected as
untrue, we are bound to withdraw our confi­
dence altogether from the reporters, as compe­
tent and trustworthy witnesses of facts.
Taking it then for granted that these narra­
tives actually involve what they seem to involve,
and that they imply something totally different
from all cases of lunacy, madness, or delirium,
we then come into possession of several highly
significant facts, concerning a species or order of
Digitized by G o o g l e
262 PHYSICAL THEORY
mundane beings, whom, unless there be evidence
to that effect, we are not to identify with the
human race, and whom we are taught, by the
careful phraseology of the inspired writers, not
to confound with the fallen angelic orders— the
colleagues and companions of Satan.
The leading ideas suggested by these narratives
are such as the following, and they comport well
with the conjectures we have entertained in the
preceding pages.
— First, there is the familiar and ready inter­
mixture of invisible and impalpable beings, with
human society ; so that, within any given
boundary, there may be corporeally present, the
human crowd, and the extra-human Crowd ; and
the latter as naturally and simply present, as the
former ;— the latter as vividly conscious of thé
material world as the former, and as energetically
prompted by interests, and passions, by desires,
and fears, Secondly, it is to be noticed that these
beiiigs had not, as it seems, the physical power to
make themselves heard, or to give any mechanical
evidence of their presence, except while occupy­
ing, or invading, the animal corporeity of another
species, namely the human. Thirdly, these posses­
sions give evidence of a principle we have above
conjecturally spoken of, namely, the yearning,
or appetency of invisible and ethereal natures
toward animal organization. It would seem as
if, during that era in the history of man in
which such irregularities were permitted, that
the spiritual species eagerly caught at every
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 263
opportunity of tenanting the terrestrial species.
In the fourth place, we cannot but note, what is
not obscure in its expression, however obscure
it may be in its import, namely, the horror of
these dsemons at the thought of being consigned
to the nether cavern, or abyss. Lastly, the highly
significant effect of the adding of mind to mind,
within one and the same body, is to be espe­
cially noticed. This temporary compounding of
intelligences, which (were it allowable on so
unusual an occasion to coin a term) might be
called, a state of mental superentity, discovers
itself by multiplying the mechanical force of the
muscular system ; and as it seems, in some pro­
portion to the actual numbers of the foreign
minds. The inherent power of mind over matter,
to generate motion, was, in these instances, we
might almost say, mathematically exhibited, by
showing the accumulated force of several minds,
acting as in a focus, upon a single muscular
mechanism.
Whoever finds himself obliged, by the prin­
ciples of sound criticism and interpretation, to
consider the gospel narratives of demoniacal pos­
sessions as simply true, will find that these extra­
ordinary instances, differing in every seme from
the Satanic seductive influence elsewhere affirmed
in scripture, involve and imply every principle
that has been assumed in the conjectures
propounded in the present chapter. We should
all, assuredly, admit that one well attested and
distinctly reported instance of the presence
Digitized by G o o g l e
PHYSICAL THEORY
and intelligent agency of an invisible being,
would be enough to carry the question of an
invisible economy, pervading the visible universe.
Are then the gospel narratives well attested, and
are the circumstances simply and distinctly re­
ported ? If so, they furnish us with all we want
for the determination of the general question.
The reader will bear in mind the important
distinction, already adverted to, between the
satanic influence, and the demoniacal possessions;
the one being purely moral and spiritual, and
applying also universally to human nature, and
being in no case, and in no sense, naturally
sensible, or visible, or distinguishable from the
ordinary workings of the moral faculties. The
other on the contrary was, in an equally exclusive
sense, purely physical, or natural, and always
made itself known by visible and palpable effects,
and was confined to individuals, and came within
the range of history, as matter of fact, in the
most ordinary sense of the phrase. Happily we
have reason to conclude that human nature is no
longer liable to the ruffian violence of an impure
and reprobate ethereal race; but alas ! we have
the strongest reasons for believing that men,
universally, and in every age, are exposed to
silent malignant seductions, which indeed never
trench upon the natural liberty of the mind,
much less infringe that of the body; but which
too often, like the influence of profligate compa­
nions, prevails over the better principles of our
nature.
264
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 265
In dismissing otir first conjecture, concerning
the visible universe, considered as the abode of
intelligent orders, we lightly dealt with it, as a
conjecture m
e
r
e
l
y
, which might be entertained or
rejected, at pleasure. But we are not free to
treat with equal unconcern the general principles
involved in this our second hypothesis; for
although every thing adjunctive or special in our
speculations may be unreal, these principles, if
adjudged to be false, are such as must carry
with them a large portion of our Christian faith ;
and the surrender of them would leave us in
possession of only the bare skeleton of religious
belief.
Digitized by G o o g l e
2 6 6 PHYSICAL THEORY
C H A P T E R X V III.
THE THIRD CONJECTURE.
In our first conjecture it was supposed that
room might be made for the several ranks of
being— whether animal or spiritual» within the
bounds, and upon the stage ofthe visible universe.
The second, involved the belief of an invisible
economy, suffused throughout the visible creation,
and constituting that higher system toward which
the rational orders of the lower and visible world
are tending. But our third conjecture embraces
the remote revolutions of Time, and supposes
(without however denying, what we are not at
liberty to deny, namely, the reality of an unseen
spiritual economy) that the visible universe,
replete every where with various forms of animal
life, is to fill one period only in the great history
of the moral system, and that it is destined, in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, to disappear,
and to return to its nihility, giving place to new
elements, and to new and higher expressions of
omnipotence and intelligence.
For this, our third conjecture, it would be
difficult to find a form of expression more distinct,
than that supplied by certain well known passages
Digitized by b o o g i e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 067
o f scripture, which, whether to be understood
literally, or in a tropical sense only, yet may
well serve to convey our present idea of ail
instantaneous vanishing of one form of the crea»
tion, and the substitution of another ; as thus—
“ The heavens and the earth— they shall perish ;
all of them shall wax old like a garment ; as a
vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be
changed.” “ And all the host of heaven shall
be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled
together as a scroll, and all their host shall fall
down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and
as a falling fig from thè fig-tree.” “ Lift up
your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the
earth beneath, for the heavens shall vanish away
like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a
garment.” “ Behold, I create new heavens, and
a new earth, and the former shall not be remem»
bered, nor come into mind ; and the new heavens
and the new earth shall remain before me, saith
the Lord.” “ Heaven and earth shall pass away,
but my word shall not pass away.” “ The day of
the Lord shall come as a thief in the night, in
the which the heavens shall pass away with a
great noise ;— nevertheless, we look for a new
heavens, and a new earth.” “ And from the
face of Him that sat on the throne the earth and
the heaven fled away, and there was found no
. {dace for them.” “ Behold, I create all things
n ew l”
Now it may seem that, with predictions such
as these before us, there can be no room to speak
Digitized by G o o g l e
2 6 8 PHYSICAL THEORY
cowjecturatty of the destiny of the material uni­
verse, or of the new creation; and an explana­
tion may properly be demanded of the 6ense in
which that is treated of as uncertain, which
appears to be distinctly affirmed in so many
places of scripture. Let it then, in the first
place, be observed, that as the author, in the
present essay, abstains entirely from biblical
interpretation, he is not entitled to understand
the passages quoted above, in a literal and
universal sense, apart from that sort of inquiry
concerning the meaning of phrases, and the
import of the context, which may fully justify
the belief that they ought so to be understood.
The theologian, perhaps, would refuse assent to
a literal and unrestricted interpretation of these
predictions, and would affirm that they are of
spiritual import only, or are applicable simply to
national and ecclesiastical revolutions.
Then in the second place it must be remem­
bered that, supposing the literal and universal
import of these passages were granted to us by
the biblical interpreter, yet, in following out our
conceptions, even a single step beyond a bare
affirmation of the fact, we tread upon uncertain
ground, that is to say, upon the ground of analo­
gical reasoning, not upon that of scripture
testimony; and nothing can be much more
important than always to observe the broad
distinction between those mere facts, which are
matters of religious persuasion, and those
enlargements of such facts which may be the*
Digitized by T o o e l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 269
fruit of philosophical speculation. This dis­
tinction forgotten or contemned, and then phi­
losophical speculation becomes dangerous and
pernicious;— remembered and respected, it may
yield us a service not to be spurned.
Rejecting, as we must, every modification of
the atheistic doctrine concerning the eternity of
the material universe, or its inherent indepen­
dence, and on the contrary, viewing it as nothing
more than the product of the creative will and
power, existing, while it exists, only as a means
to an end beyond itself, we then gain a position
whence with ease we may contemplate this vast
and goodly framework, permanent as it seems,
as standing only during pleasure, and as disso­
luble, in any moment, when its uses are fulfilled.
The material universe has no indefeasible rights
— has no inherent claim to be perpetuated.
Nothing abstract would be compromised by its
return to nihility. If it be a stage of life to
innumerable species, another stage of life may
come in its room ; or if an admirable exhibition
of the divine power, wisdom, and goodness, those
same attributes may shine forth with still more
clearness, on the fields of the new creation.
But our natural impressions, or physical pre­
judices, offer some resistance to the supposition
of the utter and instantaneous dissipation of the
solid masses of the material system; and it is
only by doing a sort of violence to the mind,
that such an idea is admitted. And yet those
Digitized by G o o g l e
970 PHYSICAL THEORY
who distinctly entertain the belief of the creation
of matter out of nothing, ought not to think the
return of this same matter to its nothingness»
incredible. We say the return of matter to its
nothingness ought not to be regarded as a
paradox, even when matter is conceived of
according to our ordinary notions of it, which
impute to its particles, or ultimate atoms, a real,
impenetrable, and indivisible, and insoluble
solidity. For, in whatever manner this solidity
sprang from the divine will, it cannot be greater
than the will whence it sprang; nor possess any
principle of permanence not dependant upon
that will. It is not to be admitted that God has
made any thing which, once existing, exists like
himself, necessarily and eternally.
We do not therefore hold it to be at all requi­
site, with the view of making way for our present
conjecture, to undermine (if we might so speak)
the reality of the material world. Let it be as
real and solid as it may, it is no more than the
product of omnipotence, and possesses no perma­
nence, irrespectively of omnipotence, constantly
in act to sustain it. And assuredly we should
not endeavour to shake the stability of the visible
and palpable universe by the aid of the metaphy­
sical hypothesis’— or demonstration, which denies
its reality, and which allows nothing to exist
actually, or even possibly, but Mind.
Metaphysical scepticism as well as material
scepticism, renounced, and the premises laid
down, that the material world, conceived o£
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. $271
according to our natural impressions, as solid
and (relatively) indestructible, ought yet to be
regarded as dissoluble every moment, by the
sovereign word of the Creator; this admitted, it
may yet be not altogether useless to analyse a
little our notions of matter, and to follow them
so far as may serve to show that a genuine belief
in the reality of the external world may consist
with more than one hypothesis concerning its
occult constitution.
Between the idealism of Berkeley, and the
physical theory of Boscovich, there is no real
connexion, or affinity; although, popularly, the
two systems may seem to amount to the same
thing. The former is as purely metaphysical, as
the latter is simply physical: the one is a mere
adjustment of abstract notions; the latter a state*
ment of assumed facts, supported by reasons and
evidence proper to a scientific argument; and if
the one hypothesis, as well as .the other, leaves
every thing where it found it, so far as our can*
cernment with the external world is involved,
yet the latter may actually promote the sciences
to which it stands related; while the former is,
in every sense, a barren speculation.
In propounding his conjectures concerning
the occult constitution of matter, the author
would deem it an inexcusable omission not to
have alluded to the “ Theoria Philosophise Natu*
ralis,” of Boscovich; and yet in doing so, he
must not be understood either as entirely adopt*
ing the principles of that ingenious writer, or
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
272 PHYSICAL THEORY
as pretending to interprèt his system. In fact^
notions similar to those so ably maintained by
Boscovich, can hardly have failed to present
themsélves to all minds accustomed to pursue
abstruse speculations ; and every such mind will
give to them a modification of its own.
Our acquaintance with matter, as every oiié
knows, is nothing more than an acquaintance
with its properties ; or rather, with those of its
powers which affect our senses. But these pro­
perties of matter resolve themselves into so maliy
species of motion— emanative, or vibratory, and
the motion implied in chemical combination.
The resistance offered to the touch by solid
bodies may seem an exception to this statement ;
but it is not so in fact: for the resistance of â
solid surface is nothing but a propulsion ope­
rating within the minute sphere of that atomic
force, which prevents the actual or mathematical
contact of bodies. We know solid bodies there-\
fore, only by the r
e
b
o
u
n
d
, which prohibits a
proximation within a certain limit. It is then
a species of motion that conveys to us the idea
of solidity.
In other words, for sustaining all the pheno­
mena of the material world, mechanical and
chemical, we need suppose nothing more than
an infinite congeries of mathematical points of
attraction and repulsion— attraction and repul­
sion of several kinds. This supposition fully
answers all the purposes that are answered by
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 273
the aotion of hard indivisible atoms. That
which is superadded to the idea of a centre of
attraction and repulsion, in order to bring it up
to the notion of a solid atom, adds absolutely
nothing serviceable to the idea, or perhaps intel­
ligible ; and is altogether superfluous. The hard
ultimate atom does nothing which the mathema­
tical centre will not do. But these infinite cen­
tres are only starting points of motion— motion
in several directions, or motion of several species.
It only remains then to bring this idea of the
material world into connexion with the principle
that motion, in all cases, originates from mind;
or in other words, is the effect of w ill;— either
the Supreme will, or the will of created minds.
Motion is either constant and uniform, obeying
what we call a law, or it is incidental. The
visible and palpable world then, according to this
theory, is m o t i o n , constant and uniform, ema­
nating from infinite centres, and springing,
during every instant of its continuance, from the
Creative Energy.
The instantaneous cessation of this energy, or
its reaching its close, is therefore, abstractedly,
quite as easily conceived of as is its continuance;
and whether, in the next instant, it shall con­
tinue, or shall cease, whether the material
universe shall stand, or shall vanish, is an alterna­
tive of which, irrespective of other reasons, the
one member may be taken as easily as the other:
just as the moving of the hand, or the not moving
it, in the next moment, depends upon nothing
T
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
27* PHYSICAL THEORY
but our volition. The annihilation of the so lid
spheres— the planets, and the suns, that occupy
the celestial spaces, would not be an act o f
irresistible force, crushing that which resists com ­
pression, or dissipating and reducing to an ether
that which firmly coheres; but it would be th e
non-exertion, in the next instant, of a power
which has been exerted in this instant:— it would
be, not a destruction, but a rest; not a crash and
ruin, but a pause.
Yet, as we have already said, the supposition
of the instantaneous vanishing of the present
material universe, is not at all dependent upon
the theory which supposes matter to be consti­
tuted of several species of motion, springing
constantly from an infinitude of points. And
indeed, dismissing this theory, the destiny of
the celestial mechanism might be inferred, with '
some degree of probability, from the data of
facts now generally admitted. Thus, for ex­
ample, if an ether, a resisting medium, is dif­
fused through space, a medium which, rare as it
may be, is dense enough to deduct something in
each revolution, from the onward force of comets,
and so to accelerate their revolutions, and to
diminish their orbits, the same retarding, yet
accelerating power, must be in operation also
upon the planets: so that the entire system is
winding up, and is slowly in progress toward
that consummation which the inspired writers,
speak of as a “ rolling up the heavens like a
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 275
scroll.” If such be the actual and inevitable
tendency of the planetary economy, we may
suppose that the dire catastophe will be antici­
pated by an instantaneous changing of the things
that are “ seen and temporal,” and an intro­
ducing of the things that are “ not seen and
eternal.”
In connexion with our present conjecture we
ought to consider what is that all pervading
principle which is the characteristic of the pre­
sent material system; or at least of so much of
it as comes within our means of knowledge— *
and it is this, namely, That the constitution of
nature includes the collision of unlike and
unequal forces, so acting one upon another, as
that the whole can subsist and preserve its form*
only by running round a perpetual circle of
combination and decomposition, of organization
and dissolution. In no department of nature,
within our observation, is there, or can there be,
a state of absolute rest; for those elements
which have reached a condition of repose* by
perfect combination, and which, left to them­
selves, might enjoy that repose, are incessantly
acted upon by other elements, which, though
they by themselves might also rest, cannot rest
in juxta position with any compound, but must
decompose it. Thus it is that the most solid
masses are giving way, slowly perhaps, to decom­
position, or to a change of chemical form;
while the less solid, or the more exposed masses,
are rapidly running the round of their solid,
t 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
276 PHYSICAL THEORY
fluid, and gaseous states;— yielding up th eir
constituents, to be consorted in some totally
different manner. And thus too, the powers o f
life, vegetable and animal, which, within so m any
thousand fixed types, are perpetually gathering
to themselves the crude elements, are also,
without a moment’s pause, passing on toward
their stage of decay and dissolution. T h e
balance of forces, in the material world, is o f
that kind which can be perpetuated only by
incessant revolutions and transitions; as we keep
a pole perpendicularly on the finger, by giving it
a rotation.
But there certainly comes within the range of
our abstract notions of what is possible, another
sort of counterpoise, namely, one in which either
equal forces should be balanced, or unequal
forces balanced on a principle of adjustment,
such as should involve no inequality. In the
actual world, light, heat, and electricity (to look
no further) as they are susceptible of a latent*
or a less active state, as well as of a state of
irresistible energy, and as, during their latent
state, they are embedded in the inert and dis­
soluble masses, formed by the ponderable ele­
ments, it must happen that, as often as they pass
from the latent to the active state, these masses
are either decomposed, or to some extent affected.
But instead of this, it is surely conceivable,
either that the energetic principles, such as light,
heat, electricity, should be excluded from a latent
combination with the inert elements; or that
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 277
th ey should not leave that state, and that the inert
should retain what they possess, unalterably.
In such a constitution of elements there could,
as it seems, be no formations, no transitions, no
growth, and no decay— no death. A world so
constituted, would be, during the sovereign plea*
sure of the Creator, unchangeable and eternal;
or if it were allowable to apply to the physical
world, inspired language, intended probably to
apply only to the spiritual world, the scheme of
things we have imagined might be described as
“ incorruptible, undefiled, and not fading away.”
Such, as we suppose, must be the consequence
o f establishing a real counterpoise between the
active and the inert elements of the material
world. In the system around us, three great
principles are reciprocating their influences ;
first, the inert elements; secondly, the active
elements — light, heat, and electricity, which
however may be so many modifications merely
o f one element ; and thirdly, the principle of
life, vegetable and animal, which we assume t6
be nothing else but mind. From the inter­
action of the two former, results the circle
of changes within which all bodies are re¿
volving, through their solid, fluid, and gaseous
states From the action of the third upon the
first and second, results organization, with its
functions; but organization, in combining these
two unequal forces, submits to the inevitable)
condition of that combination, and begins to
decay, almost as soon it reaches its perfection.
Digitized by G o o g l e
278 PHYSICAL THEORY
A t present, the principle of life seems to attach
itself more intimately to the inert elements* and
less so to the active; and therefore it lies ex ­
posed to all the power of the one over the other.
But let the principle of life take on to the active
elements— let it, itself essentially active, be
balanced against the active, and be so adjusted
therewith as to form a permanent combination,
and then life might continue at its point of rest
for ever.
Not forgetting the caution, once and again
mentioned, we might yet, conditionally, make a
reference to those passages, heretofore quoted,
which affirm the future; dissolution o f the mate­
rial world by fire; and assuming, for a moment,
the literal sense of those predictions (and it is
not proved that the literal sense should be
rejected) then it will seem to be intimated that
the unequal and restless counterpoise which has
so long subsisted between light and heat and the
inert elements, shall at last be overthrown; the
former breaking through all restraints, and over­
coming the latter, and so overcoming it as that it
shall no more be capable of retaining the active
force in a latent state.
But the principle of life— that is to say, Mind,
is not dissoluble by any other principle; nor can
it give way before any intensity of a merely
material energy; and although doubtless de­
pendent upon the pleasure of the Creator, mid
immortal only by his will, who sustains that
which he has produced ; yet must it be thoroughly
Digitized by v ^ » o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 279
independent of all coexistent and inferior forces
or powers. We may at once be sure, on the
one hand, that life will endure only so long as
H e shall please who is the giver of life; and on
the other, that it is a principle standing beyond
th e reach of all other forces, and inherently
supemdr to every other. Let then the material
universe vanish, silent and unnoticed as a dream;
or let it melt with fervent heat, and pass away,
as in a painful struggle and convulsion, with a
*cgreat noise in either case, all minds, rational
and moral, shall emerge from the mighty ruin,
and float clear and untouched above the terrors
and the tempest of nature's dying day. Mind
shall shake itself of the corrupible and disso­
luble elements, and shall put on incorruption: it
shall lay down the dishonour of its union with
the inert masses of the material world, and put
on the glory of a purely active and uncom­
pounded corporeity; it shall take leave of death,
and be clothed with immortality.
It is nothing else but an anticipation of this
rising of mind over the level of matter, that is
now going on within the human system. Mind,
in its first stage of combination with matter,
exercises only the lowest of its faculties, and is
long little more than merely passive; but it
gains every day upon the conditions of animal
life, exerts more and more of its inherent powers,
mechanical and rational; and at length, not only
governs, in a high spontaneous manner, its
immediate body, but so diverts and controls the
Digitized by G o o g l e
280 PHYSICAL THEORY
powers of the material woifld as to make itself, in
a sense, master of nature, and to serve itself of
her laws. The arts of life are precisely so many
conquests of mind, and so many instances of the
yielding of matter to the pleasure of mind«
Again, by its powers of abstraction the most
abstruse relations of the material world are
mastered and reduced to a practical and most
important subserviency. Then, by the aid of
these same relations, the vastness of the material
universe is so far grasped, by our methods of
reasoning, as to yield itself in degree to our
conceptions, and to come within the range of
our calculations. Man, although not yet lord
of the visible universe as an adult, is lord of it
as an heir j and exercises an authority becoming
the minority of one for whom vast posses­
sions are in reserve. This is not the language
of empty pretension: modern science and art
make good, in detail, all that is here affirmed
at large.
But as we go deeper and deeper into the
recesses of our nature, and duly consider the
dignity and the powers of the moral life, and the
vast compass of the affections, we shall feel, in
far greater force, the truth— a truth of unbounded
import, that the most excellent forms of matter
are as nothing in comparison with the worth and
destinies of the spirit. The affections of the
spirit, and their power of intimate communion
with the Infinite Spirit, not only raise the mind
immeasurably above the level of the visible
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 281
world, and carry it clear of the fate of that
world ; but raise it even above the range of the
merely intellectual faculties, so that a state may
be conceived of far better and higher than that
of the highest exercise of reason.
In truth, what is it that leads us to attach the
value we dq attach to intellectual labour and
achievement?— not the mere practical result of
those engagements; nor the mere labour, in
itself considered; but the emotion, the senti­
ment, the moral power, connected with it, and
by which it is prompted, animated, and rewarded.
Within the entire circle of our intellectual consti­
tution we value nothing but emotion ;— it is not
the powers, or the exercise of the powers, but
the fruit of those powers, in so much , of
a lofty kind, as they will yield. Now that toward
which we are constantly tending, as our goal—
that which we rest in when attained, as
sufficient— it is that which shall be ultimate, and
shall survive whatever has been mediate, or
contributory, or accessory. Every thing short
of the affections of the soul is a means to an end,
and must have its season: it is temporary; but
the affections of the soul are the end of all, and
they are eternal. Let the universe perish or
be changed— the soul shall live.
Digitized by G o o g l e
. PHYSICAL THEORY
«8«
C H A P T E R X IX .
THE GENERAL GROUND OF CONJECTURAL REA­
SONING CONCERNING WHAT IS UNSEEN OR
FUTURE.
The suppositions we have followed, in the three
preceding chapters, although separable and inde­
pendent, are not irreconcilable; but on the
contrary, may well consist one with the other,
or may each be true in part. Thus it may be
the fact that the widely-dissimilar physical con­
dition of the solar and the planetary surfaces,
as adapted to the support of living species, may,
in our own system, and in others, constitute a
ground of broad distinction as to the modes of
existence severally found there; and that while
the planetary species, of all ranks, are necessarily
corruptible, and mortal, and are permanent only
by reproduction, the solar species may enjoy an
individual permanency; and even if liable to
transformations, may yet be exempt from disso­
lution. Or if we scrupled to admit this bold
conjecture, in its whole extent, yet it is almost
impossible to resist the belief, first, that the
father-world of the system, itself the fountain of
light, heat, and vital energy, is vastly more than
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER I4FE. 283
a desert— a naked and terrible wilderness of
tempestuous combustion; and secondly, that, if
actually peopled with various orders, the physical
law of their life is more excellent than that which
prevails in the planets. The known and visible
physical difference between the sun and the
planets, goes near to making it certain that the
powers of life in the one, must be more steadily
balanced where stimulus is perpetual, than where
it is intermittent.
A t the same time, and while it is supposed
that palpable and visible organization, whether
mortal or immortal, makes its home upon the
surfaces of the solar and planetary bodies, it may
be quite true (nor indeed, without doing violence
to the language of scripture can we believe
otherwise) that each world, of every system,
includes, or is surrounded by, invisible orders,
of several species, ranks, and qualities; corporeal
indeed, but imponderable, and attached to an
element not open to cognizance by the animal
senses. This belief, considered as a matter of
philosophy, and not of religion or of faith, needs
only that our notions of the corporeal part of the
mental constitution should be defined and cleared
up a little more, and it would then take its place
among truths imperfectly known, but rationally
admitted; and it might receive enlargement and
confirmation by means of a more exact attention
to innumerable facts, that have been suffered to
pass unnoticed. On this subject something will
be advanced in the next and concluding chapter.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
«84 PHY8ICAL THEORY
But while the actual universe, as now consti­
tuted, is supposed to include capital inequalities
of the corporeal economy, and to have its local
distributions of life— life corruptible, and life
incorruptible, and also to comprise within each
locality the difference of palpable and impalpable
corporeity, it may yet be true (and the apparent
meaning of the inspired writings conveys the
belief) that the entire framework of nature
has its limited era, and shall, after fulfilling an
introductory purpose in the great scheme of the
creation, give place to a new and a higher order
of things, and to a construction of elements
such as shall better consist with those ultimate
moral ends for the sake of which all things are.
“ We,” according to the divine promise, “ look
for a new heavens and a new earth, wherein is
to dwell righteousness.”
Thus may our three conjectures be composed,
and made to consist, one with the other. But
then in reviewing the whole, as so adjusted, we
owe it to our respect for the divine testimony
(each one owes it to his own sense of piety) very
clearly to separate from the mass so much as
shall seem involved in the language of the
inspired writers. This portion, whatever may
be its amount, and on this point there will be a
diversity of opinion, is to be set off; and then so
much as remains is to be accounted conjectural
simply, and as such to be dealt with. But then,
while taking due care not to confound mere
speculation with serious articles of belief, we
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 285
should also take care not incuriously to dismiss,
undistinguished, the entire mass of what is called
— conjectural; for although a portion of this
hypothetical matter may be nothing better than
sheer supposition, and may be sustained only by
its general agreement with what is known, another
portion may perhaps claim to be considered with
a closer attention, and may justly invite exami­
nation, as not unlikely to lead to some real
advancements of certain branches of philosophy.
O n this point also, something more may presently
be said ; meanwhile let us, on broad grounds,
endeavour to embody the principles that justify
conjectures, such as those that have been above
propounded.
Reasoning from analogy, is only the assuming
that a certain power, or law, or principle, which
is seen to take effect, and to operate in a given
manner, under conditions specified, will also
operate in the same, or in a similar manner,
elsewhere, under conditions nearly the same.
Thus whatever is found to belong to the general
principle of gravitation, and to motion through
resisting mediums, in this earth of ours, is confi­
dently supposed to belong to the same principle,
and to motion in other planets, and other systems,
when once it has been ascertained that gravita­
tion actually extends to those systems, and regu­
lates their revolutions. We consider it as certain
that the law is the same, although the effects
may be varied by the difference of the conditions
Digitized by G o o g l e
286 PHYSICAL THEORY
under which it operates. As for example, if the
density of Saturn, as compared with that of the
earth, be not much greater than cork, then, his
bulk also considered, the tendency of bodies on
his surface will proportionately differ from the
tendency of similar bodies on the surface of the
earth : or again; the velocity of the equatorial
regions of Jupiter being vastly greater than that
of the earth’s equatorial band, and the bulk o f
the two planets also differing, the respective
variation between the weight of bodies, at diffe­
rent latitudes, between the poles and the equator,
in the two planets, will vary accordingly;— the
one law holding good invariably in both. In
drawing inferences of this sort it would be a false
diffidence to call them conjectures ; for we tread
on solid ground, although the path be far
extended.
Now our reasoning is not much less firm in
texture, or much less entitled to confidence in its
conclusions, when we take this portion of the
nniverse, which is our home, and with which we
are familiarly acquainted, as an exhibition— be it
on a very small scale, of the leading principles of
the creation, considered as the product of supreme
intelligence and goodness. The universe is not
the work of chance; and therefore will not be
found to contain boundless irregularities, or
freaks and utter inconsistencies of plan and prin­
ciple. The universe is the work of mind, arid:
the expression of unchangeable moral attributes ;
it will therefore, amid all its diversities, keep-
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 287
close to principle and law. We could not
indeed, a p
r
i
o
r
i
, say what these principles must
b e ; nor can we, apart from actual knowledge,
fix a boundary upon the scale that measures the
extreme instances of diversity: nevertheless we
may conclude that, whatever is found to consist
with these ruling motives, or to come within the
circle of these great reasons, in our own world,
must consist with them elsewhere; and moreover,
that every single principle which here manifests
itself in a copious and unexhausted manner, is
probably the display of a universal energy, that
must find exercise, not in this world merely, but
in all.
Thus it is usual to argue, with confidence;
from the fact of the incalculable multiplication
of animal life, under so many forms, on the
surface of this planet, that an unbounded diffusion
of life is a universal intention or principle of the
creative power, and then, when we find the
heavens to be filled with innumerable worlds, as
if in harmony with this very same productive
energy, and find too, so far as our observation
reaches, that these worlds are all governed by
the same physical laws, we conclude, not surely
very uncertainly, that all worlds, or most worlds
(for there may be single exceptions) are abodes
of life; and not less variously or copiously so
than our own. If this often-repeated argument
from analogy is to be termed, as to the con­
clusion it involves, a conjecture, merely, we
ought then to abandon altogether every kind of
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
288 PHYSICAL THEORY
abstract reasoning; nor will it be easy afterwards
to make good any principle of natural theology.
In truth the very basis of reasoning is shaken
by a scepticism so sweeping as this.
T o set the rule of analogical reasoning, as now
employed» dear of all objections and difficulties,
would demand a volume ; but at present, taking
it as generally received, and using it a little
further than can here be fully made good in its
details, yet not any further than, as the author
believes, might be strictly justified, we apply it to
the conjectures lately propounded, as follows.—
The universe, as actually known to us, is very
clearly susceptible of being considered in a three­
fold aspect; that is to say, first, as extended
through space; secondly, as extended in kind,
or by diversity of species and modes of existence 5
and thirdly, as extended through duration, or in
time. We thus, and without logical refinement,
think of the creation, or of any single region
of it, as mathematically measurable; as physi­
cally open to description, and as demanding to
be historically recorded, in respect of its com­
mencement, and the epochs and revolutions it
may pass through.
Now bringing the rule of analogy— analogy
including a belief in the universality of the divine
attributes, into its application to the above-
named threefold view of the creation, w e.
.seem
warranted in supposing that there will be a pro­
portion or a symmetry, so connecting these three
modes of extension, as that no one of them
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 289
w ill immeasurably surpass the others This
assumption may easily be explained* and its rea­
sonableness illustrated, by stating some contrary
suppositions, as thus.— 1
Let us imagine ourselves to have come up to
the exterior wall of a vast palace, which already
w e have seen to cover many acres ; but on enter­
ing the outer gate, and in passing through its
courts, we find that the enormous structure rises
only one story from the basement, that its cham­
bers are all of uniform dimensions, are all alike
in embellishment and furniture, and that, in
seeing the first of its thousand halls, we have
seen all. And what if an unvarying ceremonial,
an endless round of dull manœuvres, repeated
day after day through the year, and year after
year, comprises the history of the personages of
this palace ! The very idea is insufferable. Now
to apply our illustration to the argument in hand,
we consider it inevitable, or nearly so, to con­
clude that the material universe— this palace of
the great kiiig, is various and vast in the species
and modes of life it includes, as well as vast in
mathematical extent; and also proportionately
vast and various in the destinies and the revolu­
tions of which it shall be the theatre.
The visible extent of the creation through
space, we take as an indication, by the rule of
symmetry, of the incalculable compass of the
varieties o f being, now actually occupying the
abodes that constitute the celestial system ; and
again, this same visible extent of the creation
u
Digitized by G o o g l e
290 PHYSICAL THEORY
seems to bespeak a corresponding or analogous
yastness of range in thechanges and
the transitions and the fortunes» that shall con­
stitute the history of the entire system.
By freely admitting the hypothesis of this sort
of proportion» as involved in the symmetry o f
the universe, and as placing its extent in space,
its extent in species, and its extent in time, on
a footing of equality, we seem to have gained an
idea of the whole, such as comports with the
notion we must entertain of the infinite perfec­
tions of Him whose work it is.
Will then the reader go forward with the
author upon the ground of this supposition, as
not unreasonable— That the vastness of the
visible universe, so far as it actually comes within
our means of knowledge, may be taken as a sort
of gauge of the vastness of that range of intellec­
tual and moral existence of which the visible
universe is the platform ? If this rule of mea­
surement be granted, it will imply a correspond­
ing vastness, or unbounded range of fortunes,
as attaching to the intellectual economy, and as
yet to be developed in the lapse of time. Pre­
suming upon the reader’s willingness to grant
the premises now demanded, it will be proper to
endeavour to define a little our conceptions of
the actual extent of the material system: not
indeed as if the starry fields were to be measured
by the line of human calculation; or as if even
the multiplying of figures would enable the
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 291
mind to grasp the quantities they represent.
Nevertheless there is something which may be
done, the doing of which is highly important to
the purpose we ha^e immediately in view. In
dealing with a theme such as this, wherein the
objects spoken of immeasurably transcend as well
the powers of the conceptive faculty, as the
powers of arithmetic and of language, the very
plainest style and the very homeliest terms, are
the most appropriate ; inasmuch as while em­
ploying such a style and terms, the illusion is
avoided of supposing, either that our ideas, or
our mode of expressing them, bears any sort of
proportion to the things spoken of. We will
then speak of the probable dimensions of the
heavens, as we should of the width and height
of a building.
Methods of computation (as every one knows)
which are not uncertain, afford us the means of
advancing a negative proposition, to this effect,
that the nearest of the fixed stars is more remote
than the distance, already mentioned (page 59),
or about twenty billions of miles, a distance
which would be traversed by light (passing ninety-
five millions of miles in 8 min. 7 sec.) in three
years and 216 days. But there are millions of
stars so much more remote than those that have
been supposed to afford a parallax, that they
may actually have ceased to exist three thousand
years ago, and yet may appear in their places ;—-
their last ray not having reached our system ;
these facts every one is familiar with.
u 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
292 PHYSICAL THEORY
But now, in supposing ourselves to pass o n
beyond the nearer strata of the starry expanse,
and towards the most remote which powerful
telescopes discover, have we any reason to
imagine that we are approaching the confines o f
creation ? or shall we conclude that, beyond the
reach of the human eye, and the telescope,
nothing remains? This were surely a greater
presumption than to admit as probable, the con­
trary supposition, well as it consists* with what
we actually know. What is it that encircles the
creation, so far as seen ? certainly not any limit
of the creative power. But the material world
is not i n f i n i t e :n o ; yet infinitude allows
the visible heavens should be multiplied, or
repeated, millions of times, and still that it should
lie far within the limits of the infinite. The
apparent probability is that the universe has no
such limits as those which the human eye
extends to. The inference we are warranted in
drawing is of the same sort as that we should
adopt, concerning the expanse of the ocean, in
looking at the horizon from successive eleva­
tions :— we first measure the watery field from
the deck of a ship; and thence we behold a
billowy line, not much exceeding a radius of a
league or two. But we ascend the shrouds, and
at the height of the main yards or cross-trees
perceive that a much evener horizon marks a
distance at which the waves cease to be dis­
cernible, or to present a serrated line; and we
accordingly extend our calculation to the distance
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE* 293
of eight or ten leagues. Thence we climb to
the topmast, and again stretch our circle to a
double diameter, or more; and if we could
borrow the wings of the eagle, and sbar to the
clouds, we should still gaze upon a widening
prospect, and find that the dim distance enlarges
at every stage of our ascent, and at a rate sur­
passing the scale we had assumed at the first.
It is thus that every extension of our means
of knowing the starry field, has only served to
open to us a vastly wider prospect, without
giving any indication of our discerning a lim it:
<m the contrary, new nebulae, similar to those
that have been found to consist of innumerable
stars, fire revealed, and new vistas of worlds are
dimly opened before us. Thus we have every
reason to suppose the creation to be immensely
more extensive than the space reached by the
telescope: and yet this space, in the mode in
which it offers itself to our conceptions, suggests
a supposition, tending to give consistency, as
well as enlargement, to our notions of the
universe.—
The galaxy, ascertained to consist of innume­
rable stars, and forming, as seen from our sys­
tem, a somewhat irregular band, encircling the
heavens, obliquely to the ecliptic, gives, to the
general figure of the starry expanse, the form of
a flat parallelogram, about the midst of which is
placed the sun of our system. Laterally, and
looking towards the sides of this parallelogram,
the stars are comparatively scanty; but looking
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
PUT8ICAL THEORY
in any direction, longitudinally, or towards the
extremities, we include, of course, a vast per­
spective, and see a thickened brightness, consti­
tuted of the countless worlds that are ranged
within the general figure.
But now, in adhering to the analogy of the
celestial structures, are we to conceive of this
parallelogram as being such indeed» and. as
stretching itself, in obedience to no rule of
Symmetry, through space, like a raft, floating in
the ocean ? or shall we not rather believe that
the portion of the field of space which we see
replenished with suns, constitutes really a
segment of a sphere, so immeasurably vast, that
the suns ranged in the opposite sides of the
hollow globe are totally beyond the range of
vision, or perhaps even beyond the passage of
light. In fact, the diameter of this supposed
sphere must be such that, if light could traverse
it, countless ages must elapse before it could
reach us. The supposition we now propound
may be conceived of readily by any one who
imagines a hollow globe, we will say of three feet
diameter, formed of a crust of glass, two inches
thick; and this crust containing, pretty plenti­
fully, grains of sand, evenly distributed. Now
if we think of the eye as stationed at any one of
these grains, as its point of view, the speckled
substance of the glassy crust would present an
appearance not unlike that offered by the starry
heavens; laterally, to the right and left, the
substance would be comparatively clear of grains;
294
Digitized by Google
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 295
but in every direction longitudinally, that is to
say, following the course of the substance, the
grains would seem so thickly ranged as to give
an opacity to its appearance. A t the same time,
the opposite side of the globe would be too
remote for its grains to attract the eye.
If this supposition is thought to consist with
the law which seems to impose a spherical figure
upon all the celestial masses and motions, and so
to recommend itself as probable, and as agreeable
to the analogy of known facts, then it will be
manifest that the portion of the heavens seen by
us, can bear but a small proportion to the part
unseen;— such a proportion, for example, as is
borne by the Australian continent to the entire
surface of our globe. T o present the appearance
which it actually does, this portion can hardly
exceed the extent of fifty degrees of the circle.
And yet, when we have conceived of a starry
sphere, such as has been described, are we to
conclude that we have compassed the material
universe? If there be one such sphere, there
may be, in remotest space, another; and if
another, many. This world of ours is not the
universe;— -the solar system is not the universe:
— but do our telescopes of twenty feet long
sweep the field of the universe ? The probability
that they do not is as strong as any probability
can b e : every reason is on the other side and
with the infinity of space, and the infinite creative
power and will of the Supreme Being as the
field and the means, the belief that this energy
Digitized by G o o g l e
296 PHYSICAL THEORY
reaches its boundary within any circle that any
created mind will ever be able to measure, or to
conceive of, is not to be entertained* O n the
contrary, we may far more reasonably suppose,
not only that the divine perfections of power
and wisdom abstractedly, will always surpass the
comprehension of finite beings, but that the
products of those perfections will go beyond the
longest line of created minds ; and that not the
loftiest seraph shall ever be able to reach a spot
whence, with even a seraph s ken, he may be able
to descry the lone boundaries of the creation, and
to look beyond the circle of productive power*
Rather let us believe that creatures— the highest
of them, let them wander where they may, and
as far as they may, and let them hold on their
course with unwearied curiosity, age after age,
and in what direction they may please, shall
yet find themselves in the very heart of the
populous dominions of the Almighty, and sur­
rounded, in all directions, by worlds and systems
of worlds.
Whoever takes the simple facts now ascer­
tained, and forming part of our astronomy, and,
with laborious and continued effort of the mind,
follows them out, and brings them within grasp,
even faintly, of the conceptive and rational
faculties, will find it far more easy to go the
length we have now gone, in our hypothesis of
the material universe, than to stop short of it, at
any point, and to conceive of a limit, or a cessa­
tion of the creative energy. The limit, place
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 297
it where we may, offends reason; but the
unbounded conception gives us the liberty we
wantin thinking ofGod andhis works.
Whatever speculation we may indulge, con­
cerning the vastness, or the form of the visible
universe, it manifestly transcends all our powers
of conception and calculation. The “stars of
heaven”are as the M
sandsuponthe sea shore”—
innumerable: and they are planted through
space at distances, one fromthe other, exceeding
all means of measurement. This is enough.
But now, in considering the vast structure as
t h e w o r k o f M i n d , andas the product, not of
power merely, but of wisdom, we are absolutely
compelled to assign to the whole apurpose pro­
portionate to the mechanical preparationfor life
which it furnishes. The vastnessofthe platform
implies a corresponding grandeur of intention;
and an intention as ample in its compass as the
necessary conditions of finite being may admit.
That is to say, in looking at the heavens we
assume that a theatre so stupendous does, and
shall sustain the utmost amount of life, not
merely in numbers, but in , which it can
abstractedly sustain. The Creator having, aswe
see,put forth his power unboundedly, in relation
to space, shall put it forth unboundedly also in
relation to s
p
e
c
i
e
s,andmodes ofexistence.
The strength of this sort of inference will be
differently estimated by different minds; but
thereare few, if any, who would not yield to it,
Digitized by G o o g l e
298 PHYSICAL THEORY
to some extent. For example; none could
tolerate the idea, and especially seeing what we
see in our own planets, that the innumerable
spheres around us are totally untenanted, and
that the stupendous celestial mechanism, is a
mechanism merely. Not much more admissible
is the idea that, our own planet excepted, the
lowest forms of life only, as of vegetables and
zoophytes, are to be found in all the fair fields of
creation. Nor again, canthe mind satisfy itself,
or get free from a distressing sense of dispro­
portion, in stopping short of the belief that
intellectual and moral life, on a scale at least
equal to that which has place in this world,
has place in other worlds.
But this is barely enough; or it is the lowest
supposition that can at all be entertained; and
the idea which theauthor would fain set at work
in thereader’smind involvesaprinciple thatmust
carry us much further. And it is not merely
that we involuntarily expect to find within so
vast ascheme beings higher in faculty andpower
than man; but that a wider range should be
taken as to the modes of existence. In all
worlds is there nothing to be found except
animal organization, and nothing more excel­
lent? Is the creative energy hemmed in so
much, as that the human structure is the utmost
that can be accomplished? If nothing restrains
it, as we see it is not restrained in respect of
dimensions, ornumbers, isitrestrainedin respect
of die means and elements of life? We con-
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE, 299
elude it is not; andon the contrarymustprofess
to believe that the reach of power, in the one
respect, is fully borne out by its reach in the
other; andthattheuniverseisnotmore amazing
in a simply mechanical or mathematical sense,
than it is in what we must call its physiology.
The divine attributes, as we have already
had occasion to observe, are not to be conceived
of like the faculties or the impulses of human
nature, as so many distinct and separable qua­
lities, or powers, any one or more ofwhich may
come into play, while the others remain inert.
Nothing less can be admitted, concerning the
infinite and absolute Being, than that He is one
in essence, in a sense exclusive of all partial
modes of procedure, or single exertions of par­
ticular attributes. We must not think that the
divine power is put forth in any instance, not
accompanied by the divine wisdom; or these
apart fromgoodness andjustice. God is not, in
any act, just only, or good only, or wise only, or
almighty only; but always, and in every parti*
cular act, exhibits, or if not exhibits, really
exercises, the complement of his awful perfec­
tions: and aswe must not think that any one of
those attributes which we, fromthe limitation of
our powers, are compelled to speak of distinc­
tively, comes into act alone, so neither must we
suppose that any one attribute is ever, or in any
case, latent; for the latter supposition, as well as
the former, implies what must by no means be
granted—aparting, or adivisibility of the divine
Digitized by G o o g l e
300 PHYSICAL THEORY
nature. This beliefof what must be termed the
simplicity and integrity of the Infinite Being,
which is of the utmost importance in relation
to every branch of theology, carries with it the
belief that if God creates at all, he will create in
the plenary exercise of his undivided perfections.
Now what we actually see of the celestial
systemgoes little further than to display infinite
power. Our scientific deductions indeed give
evidence of intelligence in the equipoise of the
planetary revolutions; but at this point we
stop. Yet although deprived of the means of
immediately ascertaining, or of witnessing, the
exertion of the other attributes of Deity, ought
we to doubt, or can we, with any consistency
doubt, that power and intelligence, thus bound­
lessly put forth, under our eyes, are moving
alone? Rather we conclude, with a rational
confidence, that the bare power and intelligence
are subsidiary only to the exercise of the moral
perfections; andthattherefore, on the theatre of
the material universe the greatest range possible
is taken for putting in movement those loftier
attributes.
It is on this ground then that, while we hold
very light every special hypothesis concerning
the universe, which is not distinctly sustainedby
scriptural evidence, or actual facts, we challenge
a serious importance for the p r i n c i p l e on which
such conjectures proceed, and can by no means
admit that the refutation of any one such par­
ticular hypothesis would involve a rejection of
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 301
the theory of which it may be an individual
expression.
What has now been said concerning that
range and variety in the modes of existence
which seems implied, by the rule of symmetry,
in the mere vastness of the material universe, is
plainly applicable also, aswe have assumed it to
be, to that range and variety of fortune which
the lapse of time shall develop. If we cannot
admit the belief that a low uniformity prevails
through all worlds, neither can we imagine a
dull monotony to be the law of all.
In truth the«very attributes which give birth
to variety, at any one moment, must give birth
to variety, successively, or through the eras of
time. That same power and intelligence which
expand in the one direction, will expand in the
other, bynecessity: nor can we assign any value
to our argument in its bearing upon space, and
species, which will not attach to it, in an equal
degree, in relation to time.
Moreover,highfacultiesinvolvehighdestinies,
whether for the better or the worse: a faculty is
a germinatingpower; and the moreprofound or
expansive it is, the greater will be the difference
between its early and its later developments.
A being of complex faculty will never fail to
create to itself a history. T wo such beings
associated, will generate a course of events in*
definitely various; and a large community of
beings, each endowed with active powers, and
impelled by various and contrary impulses, must
Digitized by G o o g l e
302 PHYSICAL THEORY
impart a complexity to the course ofevents such
as is not to be unravelled, or brought round to
its simple elements, within anybriefperiod. Or
perhaps, we should rather say that a course of
events, complicated as it must be by springing
from the interaction of beings themselves com*
plex in powers and desires, will perpetually
involve itself deeper and deeper with the great
principles of moral government; and thus will
accumulate its demands upon futurity, wherein
laws are to be vindicated, and irregularities
reduced to system.
To bring then our present argument to a
conclusion, and summarily to state its import,
we look upon the visible universe, its immeasu­
rable spaces, and its innumerable spheres, as a
fully expressed symbol of P o w e r , but as a
partially expressed symbol of W i s d o m we say
partially, becauseitishardlyatall bythe eye, and
only in degree by the inferences of science, that
the construction of this stupendous work is at
present cognizable. But we do not forget that
it is by accommodation to our own modes of
thinking that we speak of the power andwisdom
of God d
i
s
t
i
n
c
t
i
v
e
l
y
, and that, in truth, these
attributes are relations only of the one undi­
vided andundistinguishedInfinite Nature. This
same celestial structure therefore, could we ex­
amine it throughout, would be found to exhibit
every other attribute, in act, with an equal or
proportionate intensity. The power has not
jgone further than the wisdom, nor these further
Digitized by G o o g l e
QF ANOTHER LIFE. 308
than the goodness, or the rectitude; and the »
universe isdoubtless as great in every sense, as it
is great in mere dimension, and in number of
parts. It is as if, upon the palace wall of the
Supreme, a hand were seen writing:—already it
has written, in our view—‘Power,* and partly
Wisdom ; butknowingwhose name it is, ofwhich
this writing is the initial portion, we well know
that the entire inscription must run on much
further.
Let every one then—every one capable of
holding correspondence with the Creative and
with the Ruling Mind, let every one read, in
the visible heavens, a dim, andyet not fallacious
presage of the vastness, and the depth,, and
height, of the unseen economy, with which he
shall find his destinies involved; and let him
believe that, when this now unseen economy
comes to beknown, the vastness of the material
theatre shall cease to attract regard, in compa­
rison with the stupendous movements and
destinies it sustains.
Digitized by G o o g l e
304 PHYSICAL THEORY
CHAPTER XX.
ON THE ADVANCEMENT OF PNEUMATOLOGY.
The two pioneers of physical philosophy are
Accident and Hypothesis; and so it is that
science, while professing to care for nothing but
what is certain, actually owes the extension of
her domainvery much to chance, andto conjec­
ture. This humiliating fact, if indeed it should
be thought of as humiliating, is forcibly felt, and
freely acknowledged, duringthe springseason of
anysingle branch of science; for then the parti­
cular instances are fresh in every one’s recollec­
tion. But afterwards, and when the new truths
have acquired firmness and consistency, and
when theyhavesettled down into the formof an
ascertained system, and when this system exacts
submission, instead ofasking for patronage, then
is it apt to shrink disdainfully from its early
helps, to frown upon hypothesis, and to think
itself beyond the reach ofany further accessions
from accident. This feeling and practice how­
ever, are not to be admitted; and philosophy,
in its ripest state, should still favour the means
of its early triumphs, and freely yield itself to
every new chance of advancement.
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 305
All this is especially true in relation to the
several branches of intellectual philosophy; and
yet the very difficulty and indistinctness ©f the
subject, which should incline those who pursue it
to admit and invite every possible aid, seems
rather to inspire a prudish jealousy, or coyness,
as if what is felt to be held in an uncertain
and precairious manner, were secure only while
guarded against every rudeness.
Among the expressions of this sort of latent
fear, the following may be named; and first,
a stern decision, in relation to certain natural
subjects of curiosity, concerning the constitution
of man, that they lie absolutely and hopelessly
beyond the reach of the human faculties; and
that it is aproof of ignorance, and presumption,
and ofan incapacity to discern the Teal limits of
mental philosophy, so much as to moot these
questions, or to indicate a wish to pursue them:
just as it is held to be the sign of a smattering
acquaintance with mathematical principles, to go
in quest of a perpetual motion. Again, this
same unacknowledged feeling would restrict us,
not merelyin relation to the subjects of inquiry,
but as tothe mode of conducting those inquiries
which,inthemselves,aregrantedtobe legitimate.
Mental philosophy must be cultivated, it is said,
with clean hands; that is to say in a rigid avoid­
ance of any process of investigation not strictly
analytic and metaphysical; orsuchaswouldseem
to bring these high themes down from their
elevation, and set them upon the commonlevel
x
Digitized by v ^ » o o Q l e
306 PHYSICAL THEORY
ofphysiological researches. All we can know of
m i n d (aswe are taught to believe) is to be found
in an*analysis of our personal consciousness :—
the mental philosopher need never leave his
study. Mental philosophy is granted to be in­
ductive; but the materials of the induction are
all in the bosom.
Once more; the very same freedom in admit­
ting conjectures which, within the circle of the
physical sciences, is allowed and encouraged, on
the well understood principle that such conjec­
tures (never confounded with ascertained facts)
may lead the way to discovery, and keep the
mind alert, and ready to avail itself of happy
accidents—this same freedom of conjecture,
whichhas been so fruitful a source of important
advancements, is somewhat superciliously dis­
carded from the precincts of Intellectual Philo­
sophy, as worthy only of vulgar and empirical
minds. But before conjecture or hypothesis is
thus excluded from the range of mental science,
it should be proved, that the occult constitution
ofrational and sentient beings is to be explored
by the method of analysis alone ; for it is mani­
fest, that ifthe mental, like the animal structure,
maypossibly become better known than it is by
a collationofvarious classesoffacts—factsassem­
bled under the guidance of a previously assumed
theory, then it will follow that it is to the aidof
hypothesis we should look for further advance­
ments, in this,as well asin other linesofphysical
inquiry. And in truth, by so much as this
Digitized by k ^ o o Q l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 307
subject is obscure and remote from immediate
observation, the more need have we of such
assistance. Have we not mentalfirmness enough
to secure ourselves absolutely against the danger
of putting mere conjecture in the place of real
science? If we have not, let us abstain alto­
gether from philosophic pursuits.
But it maybe asked, what room is there for
hypothesis, or in what direction are conjectures
to be hazarded, in relation to the proper objects
of mental philosophy? In reply, we grant at
once» that there is little room for admitting these
pregnant methods of inquiry in relation to that
sort of mental philosophy which turns upon the
adjustment and exact expression of abstract
notions, and which is properly termed M e t a ­
p h y s i c s . But we look wider when we think of
intellectual science, and think of it as a branch
of physiology. Thus understood, it not merely
embraces more objects, but comesundermethods
ofinvestigationthatare.more diversified. Meta­
physics is analytic simply$ but Intellectual
Philosophy, while it employs analysis, rests
mainly upon induction (in the physical sense of
the term) and must employ as well hypothesis,
as observation and experiment.
;Metaphysical mental philosophy is the know­
ledge of m i n d ; but Physical mental philosophy
is the knowledge of m i n d s ; and this distinction
opens before us at once, awide and various field.
The knowledge of minds we might consent to
x 2
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
308 PHYSICAL THEORY
designate by the term Pneumatology, compre­
hensively understood; and it will then lead us
to make inquiry, not merely concerningthe laws
of mind, as discoverable by an analysis of our
personal consciousness ; but concerning those
often-recurrent varieties of mental conformation
(within the human system) which assume very
nearly the distinctness and the regularity that
constitute specific differences, and which might
properly give rise to a classification by orders,'
genera, and species. If any such classification
were effected, it is manifest that a comparison of
the differences on the ground of which it was
made would immensely extend and advance our
knowledge of mind in the abstract; for it is
only by setting off the differences, one after
another, that any generic body or class of things
can be known.
But this is not all; for, on the one hand;
with the many indications, some indeed obscure;
and some explicit, of the existence of rational
orders, other than the human, and, onthe other
hand, with innumerable sentient and voluntary
species around us, partaking with ourselves, in
the fullest manner, of all the rudiniental focal"
ties of mind, and exhibiting proofs also of thë
germs or faint characteristics of some of thé
highest faculties, it can never be assented to that
mental philosophy should be restricted within
the limits ofthe human system.
Even if it were true that we may know mueh
moreof the humanmind,thanof anyother class,
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 309
and that the knowledge of the human mindis of
more practical consequence than the knowledge
of any other, it will not follow, ifwe regard the
spirit and rules of our modern physical sciences,
that we should so narrow the range of our.
curiosity. But in truth, it may be made to
appear, that the knowledge of the human mind
is more likelyto be advanced,in relation to what
still remains obscure, by pursuing these difficul­
ties on other ground than that of the human
mind, than by arrogantly and pertinaciously
continuing to fix our attention upon the facts
of our personal consciousness. Let us leave our
closets, forsake our dim* seclusions, and our
lamps, and open our eyes upon the wide world
of animated beings.
In relation to the supernal branch of pneuma-
tology, alluded to above, it is granted thatscience
can go but a little way, with its merely natural
means of information; nor is it desirable that
an intermixture of philosophical inquiries, and
biblical deductions, should be encouraged. On
this very principle the author, in the preceding
pages, has avoided every thing beyond a mere
passing reference to facts known to us only
through the medium of the inspired writings.
The subject is a biblical one, and might well
engage the attention of those qualified to pursue
it, in the legitimate methods of interpretation
and criticism. And yet, in placing this obscure
subject in a clearer light than at present falls
upon it, little probably would be done by any
Digitized by G o o g l e
310 PHYSICAL THEORY
who should resolve to entertain none of those
mere conjectures which suggest themselves to us
in hours of unrestricted meditation. Those
numerous passages of scripture which affirm or
imply the existence and agency of superhuman
and extra-human orders, are manifestly imper­
fect allusions merely to single points of a vast
scheme, veiled from our view; and unless we
court the aid of hypothesis—and of more than
one hypothesis, in expounding these scattered
notices, it is not probable that we shall ever
advance a step beyond the mere literal interpre­
tation ofsingle texts. On the contrary, it might
happen, that à series of suppositions, well
devised, might at length lead to some such
general notion on the subject as would give
consistency to all parts of the evidence, dissipate
many difficulties, and èyen lead to our enter­
taining more expanded and more profoundly
affecting notions of that scheme within which
our own destinies are involved.
In advancing the conjectures which, in the
present work, he has hazarded, the author has
briefly stated some of those suppositions he has
been accustomed to entertain, in reading the
scriptures, with the very view of catching every
faintindication of things unseen, andthat often
are of a kind so obscure as to escape notice en­
tirely, except when the mind is quickened, in an
unusual manner, by the incitement of sòme
general and consistent conception of the unseen
economy. No sound mind is seduced from its
Digitized by •ogle
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 311
♦ sobriety longer than a few minutes by any
.such conception, how plausible soever it may
seem. But although not beguiled, the mind
m ay be substantially aided by thus entertaining
an hypothesis. Let, for example, some one such
theory be distinctly digested, and the mind filled
with i t : let it be compared with whatever we know
o f the system of the universe, whether by analogy
or observation ; and then let the entire chain of
scripture evidence, critically examined, be gone
over, with a view to this particular supposition.
The consequence will be, perhaps, its absolute
rejection or perhaps it may so adjust itself with
special points of the evidence as to forbid its
total rejection, and so as may lead to its being
held in reserve, to be compared with the results
of inquiries conducted on some other prin­
ciple.
But are such inquiries altogether idle, futile,
and vain ? Will those venture to say so, who
entertain a due reverence for the canon of
scripture, and who believe that every separate
portion of it is placed where it is found with a
specific intention, and for an important end ?
Let it rather be believed as probable that, if our
Christianity is to recommend itself more exten­
sively than hitherto it has done, to mankind at
large, it will be (in part) by our obtaining some
more enlarged conceptions of the great spiritual
economy— conceptions such as may impart the
force and vividness of reality to our faith in
things unseen.
Digitized by G o o g l e
312 PHYSICAL THEORY
But we turn, at present, from this inore
obscure and difficult branch of pneumatology,
which must always come more within the range
of theology than of science ; and advert to that
other branch of the same subject, in relation to
which all the materials are under our eye, « id
the methods of proceeding are strictly and
simply inductive.
Now whatever may be the prejudices that
stand in ttie way of such a course of inquiry, it
appears that, if our object be to analyze die
mind, and to learn the conditions and laws that
attach, severally, to its faculties, a scrutiny of our
personal consciousness is but one of the means
to be employed; and indeed it is now acknow-
ledged, by some of the authorities in this depart­
ment of philosophy, that an attention to the
multifarious developments of the intellectual and
moral powers, in individual minds, is advanta­
geous, or indispensable, for completing our intel­
lectual science; and that it is by comparing
these various facts with our own consciousness,
that either is to be understood. Thus while the
method of analysis and abstraction interprets the
facts collected by observation, these enlarge and
define the results of analysis.
But what principle, admitted as good in any
other department of science, will justify our
confining our view to human nature, while mind
is exhibiting itself under ten thousand modifica­
tions, around us ? All the rudiments of the
mental constitution, as more fully developed in
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 313
man, meet our eye and invite our curiosity in
the inferior species ; and it would seem to be the
most natural, and the most auspicious course of
inquiry, to begin at the lower part of the scale of
intelligence, and to make ourselves familiar,
with the simpler forms of the percipient, volun­
tary, and reasoning principle. A mere arrogance
surely, as if intellectual philosophy were de­
graded by taking its first steps on so low a path,
should not be allowed to have its influence with
those who have learned the logic of modem
science. Shall the chemist pursue his inquiries,
only so far as may be done by examining the
nobler elements — heat, light, electricity, the
precious metals, and the diamond; but stop
when it would be necessary to soil his hands
with earths?
There is, however, a branch of intellectual
philosophy, or we would rather say of pneuma-
tology, in relation to which an extensive and
laborious examination of the corporeal mental
structure of the various sentient tribes— our
fellows in animal organization, seems to be
imperatively demanded, and promises to yield
very important results. Once and again, in the
course of this essay, the author has had occasion
to refer, hastily, to the subject which he will now
endeavour, somewhat more distinctly, to express.
It is well understood that mental philo­
sophy should be pursued irrespectively of any
theory we may entertain concerning the struc­
ture or functions of the brain ; and that the
• litized by G o o g l e
314 PHYSICAL THEORY
deductions and the distinctions which constitute
this science must be precisely such as they are,
whatever opinion we may adopt in reference to
the purely physical question of the dependence
of the mind upon animal organization. This
granted, it is yet certain that we must return to
the subject of animal organization when the
important controversy is entered upon concern*
ing the independent reality and immateriality o f
the mind, and when we have to deal with the
opinion, that mind is nothing but a function of
the animal structure; or that thought and per­
ception are products of the medullary mass,
just as the bilious secretion is the product of the
liver.
In opposition to any such opinions, we may
either take the course of metaphysical argument»
and show that the soul must be a simple, indis-
cerptible substance, immaterial, and immortal;
or we may take the moral and religious course
of argument, and prove, from the instincts» the
anticipations, and the grandeur of the human
mind, that it must be altogether superior to the
body, and must be its survivor. But now, in
pursuing the first of these lines of argument (and
indeed the second in part) we find ourselves
entangled in some consequences not easily
avoided or disposed of, in relation to the inferior
tribes of the animated world, inasmuch as the
reasoning we employ, and the principles we
assume, will almost inevitably stretch an infe­
rence as far as to include every species of beings
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER UFE. 315
th at perceives, and acts, and that is wrought
upon by emotions allied to those we call moral.
I t must indeed be confessed that the argument
o f the immaterialist, as sometimes conducted, if
pushed to its consequences, would go near to
imply the immortality of birds, beasts, and fishes,
insects and zoophytes 1
Happily however there is another course open
to us ; and in the first place (which we may
well afford to do) let us get completely clear of
all the embarrassments alluded to above, by
ceasing to seek for any aid in establishing the
immortality of the human soul, from the doctrine
of its immaterialityy or spirituality, or inde­
pendence of matter. Man we believe to be
immortal (revelation apart) not because his
mind is separable from animal organization ;
but because his intellectual and moral constitu­
tion is such as to demand a future development
of his nature. Why should that which is
immaterial be indestructible ? None can tell
us ; and on the contrary, we are free to suppose
that there may be immaterial orders, enjoying
their hour of existence, and then returning to
nihility.
But now, taking up the hypothesis that animal
life, in all its kinds— every being that has con­
sciousness, perception, and voluntary motion,
possesses a principle totally distinct from the
animal tissue, and the animal functions— a prin­
ciple strictly immaterial (although perhaps always
in fact combined with some kind of corporeal
Digitized by G o o g l e
316 PHYSICAL THEORY
\
congestion of elements) then it will remain to
bring this doctrine to the test of facts; and
perhaps we may be able to bring it to the test
of experiment. In doing so it is clear that our
methods of inquiry will be the most exem pt from
exception, and our conclusion the most decisive,
if we carry on the investigation, chiefly, on the
field of inferior animal life. If on this field we
make good our ground, every thing* will be
secured, as by anticipation, or a .
And not merely will there be an argumen­
tative advantage in establishing the doctrine of
the independence of mind, on the broader and
lower basis of merely animal existence, but
the almost infinitely varied structures of the
animated tribes around us, will be found to
offer many instances of so striking and decisive
a kind, as will hardly allow of a choice of
opinions, but* will compel us to adopt a belief
such as must utterly exclude the opinion of the
materialist. If the human animal structure
may leave us in doubt, we shall scarcely find it
possible to hesitate when we come to examine
the structure and physiology of inferior species:
we may perhaps be perplexed in considering the
question of the immateriality, or rather indepen­
dence of the human mind, but shall be relieved
of all difficulty in examining the animal mecha­
nism of insects and worms.
There are those probably, who would not wish
even to see the materialist confuted, if it must
be on the strange and offensive condition— a
Digitized by Google.
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 317
condition so derogatory to the dignity of man,
o f our acknowledging a brotherhood of mind,
such as shall include the polypus, the sea jelly,
and the animalcule of a stagnant pool. But
science knows of no aversions; and must hold
on its way, through evil report and good report.
Truth, in the end, will not fail to justify itself,
in all its consequences and relations.
The line of investigation necessary for doing
justice to our present hypothesis, it would not be
difficult to mark out. Let the muscular power
be first considered, and a copious comparison
of structures be instituted, such as should sup­
port a rational conclusion concerning the pro­
cess, and the mechanism by which it is effected:—
as thus—
In all cases of muscular movement, a con­
nexion, either with the brain, or with a ganglion,
sustaining the same office, by the means of the
nervous chords, is indispensable:— except when
the limb is supplied with galvanic excitement in an
artificial manner; in which case motion ensues;
but it is motion of one sort only; namely a
convulsive contraction of the stronger muscle or
muscles, in each antagonist set. Now this except
tive case, accidentally made known to us, natu­
rally suggests the belief that, what the brain
supplies is— galvanic excitement merely; or a
stimulus, of whatever kind, equivalent to that
furnished by galvanism. We are then to seek
for the cause of discriminative motion; or for
Digitized by G o o g l e
318 PHYSICAL THEORY
the cause of those movements in which the
stronger muscles remain at rest, while the
weaker are called into action. Does then the
brain supply, not only the chemical stimulus of
contractility, but also the directive or discrimina­
tive power, which acts upon certain muscles, and
holds others in suspension? Now beside the
abstract improbability of this double function of
the same viscus, we find, upon examining the
structure and arrangement of the nervous chords,
in all species, that while they are admirably
fitted for discharging the office of conveying a
stimulus indiscriminately to the» limbs, they
cannot, without the highest difficulty, be consi­
dered as the channels of distinct volitions to
particular muscles. The one purpose speaks
itself in their construction; the other is as plainly
contradicted and excluded. Especially does this
impracticability strike us in the nervous economy
of certain of the inferior classes of the animated
world.
In the general scheme then of muscular
motion, we have clearly before us the several
constituents— all but o
n
e
. There is
fulcra or leverage, with its hinges;— the mus­
cular fibre, banded together, secured to its
attachments, and supplied with blood; and there
is the nervous net work, conveying, from the
brain or spinal process, the stimulus which pro­
duces the vehement contraction of the fleshy
tissue. But in all this we yet want the principal
agent, namely that power which determines the
Digitized by L ^ o o Q i e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 319
kind, and the direction of the movement that
in each instance is to ensue. Does this agency
come from the brain ? The conclusion we anti­
cipate is that it does not ; inasmuch as the line
of connexion is not at all adapted to any such
purpose. Does there then remain within the
animal apparatus, any system of vessels, or any
gland, or any fluid, not otherwise occupied, to
which we may probably assign the office of deter­
mining motion ? There is none ; and we there­
fore attribute the determination immediately
to a power distinct from, and independent of,
the visible structure :— that is to say the mind,
present throughout the body, and acting and
feeling, wherever present, by its inherent faculty
in relation to matter.
It need hardly be said that our hypothesis is
open to a special mode of attestation, or refuta­
tion, by the means of the various accidents that
affect the muscular power, in consequence of
disease. Thus all the facts connected with con­
vulsive and spasmodic affections, on the one
hand, and with paralysis and leipothymic states
of the system, on the other, or with delirium,
and insanity, and febrile excitement, will, if fairly
considered, either confirm or exclude the theory
we adopt. Besides these methods, it is easy to
imagine experiments, such as should be almost
of a decisive kind.
Prom the examination of the muscular system,
we should advance to consider the mechanism of
sensation. The organ of sense and the brain,
Digitized by G o o g l e
320 PHYSICAL THEORY
are connected by a chord : there is therefore
doubtless a communication going on from th e
one to the other. But what is it that is con­
veyed ; and in which direction does the current
flow ? It is said that sensations are transmitted
from the organ to the brain ;— the stream there­
fore is in a direction contrary to that which takes
place in effecting muscular motion ; for in that
case, the volition flows down from the brain to
the extremities. But according to our hypo­
thesis, the course of the current is the same tin
both cases; and the influence conveyed is also
the same. That is to say, we assume that the
brain supplies the organ with galvanic excite­
ment, and nothing else ; just as it supplies the
muscular fibres with galvanic excitement, and
nothing else, and that, as the mind, in the ,
determines motion, so thè mind, in the organ,
admits sensation. Sensation, as we suppose,
takes place at the tangential point or surface,
where the external vibration gives rise to a
vibration upon the nervous expansion.
With a view of determining the question, as
here stated, we should first examine the sense of
touch, and must profess the conviction that the
arrangement and reticulation of the nerves of
feeling are such as to render the supposition of
the conveyance of distinct local sensations, from
the surface of the body to the brain, in the
highest degree ineligible ; while the hypothesis
of a mere conveyance of excitement, from the
brain to the surface, and of the immediate pre­
Digitized by G o o g l e
OF ANOTHER LIFE. 321
sence of the percipient faculty, at the point of
sensation, is rendered almost certain.
If, on an extensive comparison of facts, per­
manent and accidental, this were admitted, the
same hypothesis would not be denied in relation
to the other organs of sensation; and thus,
instead of an organ despatching volitions, and
receiving sensations, we should have, in the
brain, a secreting viscus merely ; and we should
then attribute sensation, volition, consciousness,
and power, not to an animal organ, but to the
mind, natively fraught with power, active and
passive— to the mind, linked indeed to the
animal structure, but suffused throughout it, and
constituting the life.
The hypothesis we have here stated is. surely
susceptible of being brought to the test of facts,
in the ordinary modes of scientific inquiry. Its
consequences perhaps, if established, might be
more extensive and various than at first they
may appear. A t least they would not fail to
place Pneumatology on a firmer and a broader
basis; and so to open the way for enlarged and
definite conceptions of the great Spiritual
Economy of the universe.
T H E E N D .
P R IN T E D BY R. C L A Y , B R E A D - S T R E E T HILI .
Digitized by G o o g l e
