{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1936__bowers___spiritualisms_challenge.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritualisms Challenge","mylang":"de"}
Spiritualism's
Challenge
Submitting to Modern Thinkers Conclusive
Evidence of Survival
By
DR. EDWIN F. BOWERS
Author of "Charm and Personality," "Eating to Live
Long:/' "Alcohol —Its Influence on Mind and Body,"
"Side-Stepping Ill-Health," "Bathing for Health,"
"Confessions of a Former Customer's Man," "Nudism
Exposed," "Sex Life in America," 'Zone Therapy,"
"Teeth and Health," "Sleeping for Health," etc.
PUBLISHED BY
NATIONAL LIBRARY PRESS
110 WEST 42nd STREET - NEW YORK, N. Y.
Copyright, 1936, by
EDWIN F. BOWERS
All publications are cordially invited to reprint
any material in this book—up to a thousand
words—as we would be glad to have the message
broadcast in the widest possible manner.
GIFT
PRINTED BY THEODORE OAUS' SONS, Inc.. New York, N. Y.
B 7
PSYCH.
LIBRARY
To Those Dear Spirits Who
Have So Graciously and Gener
ously Provided the Evidence of
Their Continued Existence This
Book Is Affectionately
Dedicated.
983
"In many instances, at the time of death
or of great danger, an individual enters
into a certain kind of relation with another.
The dying man, or the victim of an
accident, even when such accident is not
followed by death, appears to a friend in
his usual aspect. The phantom generally
remains silent. Sometimes he speaks or
announces his death."
Dr. Alexis Carrel
"Man, the Unknown"
INTRODUCTION
After
thirty-five years of investigation and study of
psychic phenomena, in all their varied phases, I am
indubitably convinced that the knowledge gained by sincere
and patient investigation of these matters offers what is
perhaps the most important mental and spiritual experience
that can possibly be acquired during one's earth life.
In fact, I feel certain that there are millions of people
now living who believe that proof of the continuity of exis
tence after death, with survival of personality and the ability
to communicate with discarnate intelligences, constitutes the
most priceless knowledge they can ever hope to attain.
It is a beacon, shining through the darkness of despair
and soul-hunger; a clear voice calling in the wilderness of
disillusionment and failure of achievement; a comforting
hand-clasp in the mad surge of a social structure gone
berserk; a comfort and a blessing to all those who can
laugh and say "This, too, shall pass away. For it is merely
a school, wherein I am preparing myself for a larger,
happier and infinitely more important work."
To be sure, there are any number of well-meaning souls
—mostly among those whose paths meander through pleas
ant places; who have never gathered hungrily the scattered
crumbs, fallen from the table of Dives; against whose full
lips has never been pressed the cup that is bitter gall, and
the fruit that is Dead Sea ashes; whose tender flesh never
has cringed under the lash of driven sleet and the bite of
icy wind —who, with full-fed indifference, can declare "One
world at a time—this is all that interests me."
These are the veneered savages of a Mad Hatter civ
ilization, "finished and finite clods, untroubled by a spark"—
satisfied to dance down the primrose path, heeding only
INTRODUCTION
belly-hunger, and seeking only physical contentment. Either
they know nothing at all concerning the tremendous mass
of evidence relating to the continuity of life after death—
painstakingly gathered by scientists and students of unques
tioned repute and ability —or else they flout this testimony
as being the stuff that dreams are made of, promulgated by
a small army of nit-wits, who might be much better occupied
in trying to discover some new scheme for making money.
Or for "having a good time."
Yet these materialists are, sad to say, found quite as
frequently in the church and in the school as in the close-
packed marts of trade, where skepticism and materialism
are rife, and where intolerance of intellectual progress
strangles always the upward-reaching thought.
Their lack of even an infinitesimal portion of cosmic con
sciousness is manifested in a smug assurance, an egoistic
assumption of superior intelligence, and a well-defined con
tempt or pity for those who profess a whole-souled belief
in a rebirth into the green pastures of everlasting life.
It is to these slight souls that this book is addressed, in
the hope that some scattered fragments respecting the scien
tific aspects of survival of consciousness may provoke
constructive interest.
Remember, there is a rich and fascinating literature on
this subject, much of which is available to those who will
take the trouble to delve into it.
In the library of the Society for Physical Research in
England there are many thousands of monographs and
hundreds of books and reports, in all languages, on this
subject.
The entire top floor of Hyslop House, the New York
headquarters of the American Society for Psychic Research,
is devoted to a collection of books, magazines and reports
that should gladden the heart of any student of occultism.
INTRODUCTION
It would be well for the spiritist, as well as for the
intelligent novitiate, to familiarize himself with the out
standing facts relating to the subject of psychic phenomena.
To make this immediately available I would recommend
a reading of the splendid "History of Spiritualism" in two
volumes, and "The New Revelation," also the delightful
"Wanderings of a Spiritualist," by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
"Raymond" by Sir Oliver Lodge, Vale Owen's "Life Beyond
the Veil," Mrs. Piatt's "The Witness," Professor Lom-
broso's "After Death —What?" Professor von Schrenck
Notzing's "The Phenomena of Materialization," "The
Progress of the Margery Mediumship" by Margery's hus
band, Dr. L. R. G. Crandon, E. A. Brackett's "Material
ized Apparitions," "Edie" by W. Harold Speed, A. J.
Davis' "Magic Staff," Turvey's "The Beginnings of Seer-
ship" (The last two among the most amazing psychic auto
biographies ever written). Also, the excellent works of
Camille Flammarion, Sir William Crooks, Professor Hys-
lop, L. M. Bazett, Hon. G. W. Balfour, Hannen Swaffer,
and as many others as you have time and inclination to
read.
And through all your reading and study, remember
always Browning's clarion call to the scoffer.
All that
is,
at all,
Lasts ever, past recall;
Earth changes, but thy soul and God stand sure
:
What entered into thee,
That was,
is,
and shall be
:
Time's wheel runs back or stops
:
Potter and clay endure.
January
1,
1936.
Edwin Frederick Bowers
New York City
CONTENTS
Chapter Pa««
Introduction v
I. I Have Talked with Ghosts i
II. My First Experience with a Spirit 22
III. Clinching a Conviction 29
IV. What Form of Psychic Phenomena Is
Most Convincing? 37
V. Frank Decker—Dependable Physical
Phenomonist 47
VI. Patsy Develops Marvelous Harmonica
Technic 64
VII. Spirit Who Called Up on the Phone . . 76
VIII. A Scientist Confirms Reports of Frank
Decker's Mediumship 84
IX. The Magician Who Couldn't Keep
Decker Locked in a Mail Sack 103
X. "Jim" Riley —Master Materializing
Medium 113
XI. Dr. John Myers —Spirit Photographer. . 124
XII. When Burning at the Stake Was the
High Award for Mediumship 134
XIII. How The Davenport Brothers Tried to
Spiritualize Humanity 143
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
XIV. Honest and Dishonest Mediums 149
XV. Manhandling the Medium 159
XVI. Why Can't I Receive Messages Myself?. 169
XVII. Blundering Bigotry 173
XVIII. Magician's Madness 186
XIX. Spiritual Healing 212
XX. A Spirit Materializes a Full Set of
Teeth and a Pulsing Heart 230
XXI. What Do They Really Know About
Hell? 241
XXII. In Which I Pat Professor Jastrow's
Rosy Cheeks 263
XXIII. Stupidity Spreads to Texas 274
XXIV. A Seance with Mrs. Etta Wriedt and
Frank Decker 282
XXV. My "Dead" Mother Brings Me a Lock
of Her Hair 287
Chapter I
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS!
THIS
book is a challenge —a challenge to ignorance, to
bigotry, to the spirit of intolerance that denies and
abhors the veritable mountain of evidence that absolutely
proves survival of personality after the change we call
death.
It is a natural reaction to the contempt, the vilification,
the rheum that has been spewed over spiritists, ever since
the Fox sisters brought back to our modern world manifes
tations of supernormal communication.
We spiritists have been the butt of ridicule for every
semi-informed, so-called scientist; for every materialistic-
minded sophisticate; for every orthodox bigot who felt the
ground slipping from under his job-menaced heels; for all
who contend that because a thing has never happened to
them it couldn't possibly happen to anyone.
The contention of the modern spiritist is that spirit
ualism is no longer on the defensive. It no longer comes,
with "bated breath and whispering humbleness," petition
ing a hearing before the Doges of Doubt.
No longer need it intrude —by way of the servant's
entrance —pulling its forelock and scraping its abject foot.
It stands proudly erect, looks its mud-slinging persecutors
in the eye, and asks:
By what right do you deny the evidence incorporated
in seventy thousand books, dealing with the phenomena of
spiritism?
[1]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
ASKING THE JUDGES A FEW QUESTIONS
By what authority do you presume to hound and im
prison those whose only crime lies in duplicating —in some
small measure—the actual spiritistic phenomena upon which
Christianity is based?
What particular form of mental alienation causes you
to burp and regurgitate whenever psychic manifestations
are seriously discussed?
And why do you presume to sneer at and decry a phil
osophy of which you know not even the rudiments !
These are fair questions which demand a frank answer.
However, lest there be any misconception concerning
the intent of this work, let me state again that this book is
not a defense of spiritualism. For spiritism needs no
defense. It is a challenge. A challenge to every hypocrite,
every ignoramus, every "smart Aleck" alive.
It is a challenge to every person who believes that the
mass of evidence I have here presented—from my own
experience, and from the experience of many of the great
est thinkers who have ever lived—are tales told by an
aggregation of idiots.
How will you answer these tales? I, personally, will
be only too happy to debate the matter with any competent
skeptic who cares to take up the gage, here thrown down.
My friends, Frank Decker, Arthur Ford, Ethel Post
and a number of other dependable mediums of various
phases, will be only too happy to appear before any re
sponsible and properly accredited body of scientists or
investigators and duplicate certain psychic experiences I
have here recorded.
Spiritualism, revived from ancient practice, has been
on trial for some ninety years now. Patiently it has borne
the crown of thorns and worn the leper's robe. It is high
[2]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
time these be now discarded for trappings more worthy
the high estate of our beautiful philosophy.
Insofar as lies in my power, and with God's help, I
propose to do what little I can toward bringing this about.
MATERIALIZATION—PERHAPS THE MOST CONVINCING
PHASE OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
To my mind the exact duplication of the body, the
features, the speech, the photographic memory and the
identical personality of a man or woman whose physical
body has long since been eaten by the grave worm, or
incinerated into a few handfulls of ashes, is the most
astonishing of all the miracles of psychic phenomena.
To see a man, in a fair ruby light, step from a cabinet,
walk over to you even though you may be a dozen feet
from the cabinet—give you a good strong hug or a hearty
handshake, talk with you in a natural resonant tone of voice
about events that prove him to have retained a perfect
memory for details, and after a few minutes bid you a
cheerful "good bye," dissolve into the fog of demater-
ialization before your eyes and sink through the floor, is
an absolutely unforgettable experience.
However, of late years, genuine materializations—
materializations that stand the acid test —have been of
extremely rare occurrence. Indeed, many men, who have
spent their entire lives in the investigation of psychic phe
nomena, have never seen a full form materialization.
Of course, there are hundreds of persons professing
to be mediums, who claim to be able to call spirits "from
the vasty deep" and make them, for a time, walk the paths
of earth. Yet experienced investigators, who have suc
ceeded in getting close enough to these ghosts, often come
away with a mouthful of gauze, a double handful of filmy
[3]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
drapery, or a fist-full of the medium's back hair as souvenirs
of the occasion.
I have contacted a number of such impostors and have
aided in bringing about their discomfiture. There are, how
ever, a few mediums whom I have investigated, and whose
seances I have attended, whom I believe to be thoroughly
genuine and honest.
One of these, whose "classes" I attended a number of
years ago, was the Rev. Dr. Robert Moore, pastor of a
Spiritualistic Church in Dayton, Ohio. The astonishing
phenomena Moore produced seems to have been ignored
by the Psychical Research Society and by investigators
generally. And yet Moore was one of the most extra
ordinarily gifted mediums I have ever contacted.
MATERIALIZATIONS UNDER STRICT TEST CONDITIONS
Dr. Moore differed from any medium I have ever seen
in producing his phenomena. First and foremost, the rooms
at 167 East 36th Street, New York, in which the seances
were held, were not of Moore's choosing. They were select
ed by the class. There were no trap doors in the hardwood
floor. Nor were there any secret closets in back of the
cabinet. For the cabinet consisted merely of two dark
curtains, hung on a line strung by ourselves across a corner
of the room. Back of this wall was all out-doors. So that
no living person could possibly have entered the cabinet
from the back.
It would have been almost as difficult for anyone to
have gotten in from the front. For when the entire class
of thirty members had gathered, the row of chairs nearest
the cabinet was not more than a half-dozen feet from the
cabinet. These rows of chairs semi-circled the room from
wall to wall. The only door was in back of the last row
[4]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
of chairs. So if anyone could have entered through the
door—which, by the way, was always closed and locked
before the seance —and scrambled over to the cabinet, he
would have to get in over the heads of the audience. And
to climb over a half dozen rows of heads, legs, and bodies
without anyone finding it out and reporting the fact would
have been quite impossible.
The room was dimly lighted by a ruby lamp —the kind
used in a photographer's developing room. After one's
eyes had become accustomed to this light—which required
only a few moments—any object as large as a man, or even
a child, could be readily discerned.
Dr. Moore sat outside the cabinet, in full view of the
class, during the time the spirits were being "built up"
behind the curtains, by that condensation of teleplasm or
"unresisting ectoplasm," understood by students of psychic
phenomena.
Dr. Moore would sit outside his curtains while some
spirit in a more or less materialized form, glided out of
the cabinet, and exchanged greetings with a relative or
friend, or else delivered a little discourse on ethics. Dr.
Moore, not only could, but did, do quite as well in any
body's home as he did in the apartment at East Thirty-sixth
Street. He could be shifted around to a different house
every night, if necessary, and still produce the same phe
nomena.
Moore used to invite any member of the audience to
sit next to him, hold both his hands, and to cover his feet
with one or both of their feet during the demonstrations.
I personally, have several times had this privilege.
KISSING A MATERIALIZED SPIRIT
Under all these circumstances I have repeatedly seen
spirits of the departed emerge from the cabinet and leave
[5]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
the curtained alcove. On two or three occasions, when
there were not so many present, and when, consequently,
there was more promenading space available, I have seen
these intelligences walk or float to some one, sitting at least
ten or twelve feet from the cabinet, where they delivered
their messages, so to say, confidentially. Occasionally these
forms would bend over and kiss one on the forehead before
leaving. I have, myself, several times experienced this
unique demonstration.
The spirits never took the trouble to go back into the
cabinet and dematerialize. After they concluded their visit
they apparently disintegrated, disappearing into or under
the floor. Sometimes this disappearance was gradual; some
times it occurred almost in the fraction of a second.
Among the thirty who formed the class were doctors,
lawyers, an instructor in one of the departments in
Columbia, a number of Columbia students from various
countries, including one Japanese, here for post-graduate
work. Also Judge Goff—or Recorder Goff—as he was
called—a dignified and scholarly gentleman, who told us
he was convinced that the little apparition who glided to
his side on several occasions and talked with him in a low
tone, was his wife, who had passed over but a short time
before.
The seance usually began with the singing of a hymn
or some other familiar tune. This was for the purpose of
establishing rapport and to harmonize the vibrations. Tak
ing into consideration the underlying principles of the radio
this would seem most reasonable. Then followed a few
moments of silence, presently broken by a robust, guttural
greeting, as a tall figure, dressed in what appeared to be
an Indian's costume —blanket and head-dress particularly
noticeable—strode into the room.
[6]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
HOW A LITTLE ANGEL LOOKS AND ACTS
After personal felicitations with many of those present
this entity would dematerialize, to make way for his little
niece—a child of apparently six years of age. Occasionally,
both these entities would appear at the same time. The
little child brought with her one of the sweetest and love
liest influences I have ever known —angelic is the only word
that would adequately describe it—plus a most perplexing
problem. For this little personality had acquired a most
amazing amount of knowledge on a wide variety of sub
jects during the thirty odd years she had been "on the other
side." The favorite point of vantage of this charming
lass was on the medium's knees. She would "hop up" there,
and make herself as much at home as any living child
might have done.
I have repeatedly sat within eighteen inches or less of
this tiny spirit and quizzed her concerning propositions in
Plato's "Republic" or the "Phaedo," Marcus Aurelius'
"Meditations"; Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason"; Spen
cer's "First Principles," or other subjects, philosophical,
scientific or literary.
Once in a while we would touch on something the child
had not learned "in school." This happened one night,
when a professor of geology asked her if she could tell him
the names of the giant reptiles of the Mesozoic Era.
The Indian elf cocked her head on one side for a moment
like a little bird. Then she replied briskly.
"No, Doctor, I can't. But if you will wait a moment
I'll bring someone who can."
And instantly she had vanished, like a wisp of fog. It
could not have been more than thirty seconds before she
emerged again from the cabinet, followed this time by a
tall figure. In a deep, rather husky voice this presence said :
[7]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"Our little Guide tells me that one of you gentlemen has
asked her a question in paleontology, the answer to which
perhaps comes somewhat within my province. I am Pro
fessor Geikie —Archibald Geikie. May I suggest that you
look on page 338 of my Geology. You will find there
a complete account of the giant reptiles of the era concern
ing which you inquire."
I made a notation of the pages, and found when I got
home that Geikie, whose book I had studied away back in
high school days, had there given a complete description
of the fossil remains of the ichthyosaurus, the plesiosaurus
and other saurians of that era.
WHEN A SPIRIT SEEKS TECHNICAL AID
It finally became a usual occurrence for this little Indian
maiden to seek expert technical aid whenever she was asked
a question beyond her scope. These questions, however,
usually concerned the sciences —chemistry, biology, and sim
ilar studies.
I have often thought it might be wonderfully con
vincing if some of the famous prestidigitators, those who
duplicate all the tricks of the spirit mediums, would learn
to conjure up a few spirits who could range the peaks of
science with teachers specializing in these various branches,
or discuss almost any subject in philosophy or literature—
even with the most erudite.
In connection with this the idea is also suggested that
it would be even more convincing if the conjurors could
evolve twenty or thirty different spirits each evening—all
as dissimilar in size, shape, and tone of voice as possible,
and have these entities trained to know just what intimate
things to say that would convince the recipients of the mes
sages that they were talking with their mother, brother,
sister, or some dearly beloved friend.
[8]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
A FEW SUGGESTIONS FOR MAGICIANS
And while they were at
it,
it
would also be well to
educate these trick phantoms, so that they could walk out
to anyone
in
the audience and talk to them
in
French, Ger
man, Spanish, Italian or even
in
Japanese. This, by the
way, we noted one night, when the brother of our Japanese
student apeared and told his brother in America he had
just been drowned in
a
tidal wave that had engulfed the
coast of Japan
a
few minutes before. We checked up on
this message the following morning and found
it
just one
hundred per cent accurate.
Anything that can be fixed up
in
this way by magicians,
taught to speak Japanese, and to report correctly on an
earthquake and tidal wave as far away as Japan —or even
Hoboken should create
a
sensation.
But to make the demonstration still more convincing,
it
might be advisable also to levitate
a
two thousand pound
piano, with
a
couple of stout people sitting on
it,
far enough
above the floor to enable
a
clear-cut flashlight to be taken.
Convincing and authentic materializations are admit
tedly rare. But they are to be met with occasionally. When
they are, they will be found to be among the most marvelous
and instructive experiences that can ever come to
a
living
being. Pretenders there are, and will be, but the real thing
does exist.
As
I
said before,
I
have talked with ghosts—
in
English
and
in
German.
I
have also communicated with them
through scores of mediums, as one might communicate
through an interpreter, or as
is
a
most common experience,
one might receive
a
message over the phone through the
younger, sharper ears of
a
secretary.
Also,
I
have had coherent, intelligent messages, de
livered through the trumpet, which magnifies the vibrations
[9]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
of the spirit voice and renders the message more audible.
In addition, I have had dear disembodied ones write me
messages on intimate, friendly matters, known only to them
and to me, on slates especially brought to the seance by me,
and in their own handwriting—as well known and as indi
vidual to me as is my own.
Some of these communications have been of paramount
importance, refuting triumphantly the ridiculous contentions
of spirit-baiters, to the effect that the messages purporting
to come from the spirits are trivial and utterly unimportant
—even if their source were admitted.
MY MEETING WITH THE NUN
One of the most interesting and instructive conversa
tions I ever had was with the spirit of a Catholic nun, one
of perhaps thirty different intelligences materialized by
Dr. Moore one night when I was present. A gracious and
lovely soul she was.
She particularly wished to show me a new crown she
had been awarded —a marvelous diadem, coruscating in an
almost solid band of diamond-like brilliance. She was as
naively delighted with this very remarkable ornament —
clearly seen by twenty or twenty-two others, beside myself
—as a young girl would have been.
I engaged this substantially materialized spirit in con
versation immediately, as this was too good an opportunity
ot lose. I said, "Sister, I was born in a Catholic family
and brought up a Catholic until I was about twelve years
of age. So may I ask if you have ever, in your present
beautiful life, found any foundation whatsoever for the
creed you professed while on earth?"
She answered: "No, there is no basis whatsoever for
the things we were taught. There is no heaven, no hell, no
[10]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
purgatory — except as we make these out of our own
thoughts and acts. There is no vicarious atonement. For
giveness of sins must be earned by good works. It cannot
be bought.
I then asked, "Sister, have you ever met Jesus Christ?"
She responded, "I have never met him personally, but
certain enlightened souls who have earned admission to the
higher spheres —as we call them—and who come back from
time to time to instruct us, say they have seen Him and have
heard Him speak."
And then this blessed angel said, "I must be going now.
There are so many who are waiting outside the gate, to
manifest to dear ones present here tonight. Until we meet
again —God bless you—" And she touched with the tips
of her fingers the head I reverently bowed to her.
It was an altogether lovely experience —an inspiration
and a joy. I wish that every heart-broken mother, father,
sister, brother and friend in the world could have such an
inspiring experience —even once. What a cloud of misery,
heartache and loneliness might be lifted!
ONE AMONG MILLIONS OF VITALLY IMPORTANT MESSAGES
Here is another message that came to me, which
made all the difference between comparative comfort and
decidedly embarrassing poverty to my wife's father. It
was his son, my dead brother-in-law, who saved him this
experience.
This brother-in-law had "passed over" from pneumonia
a short time previous to the experience I am about to relate,
leaving his financial affairs in an exceedingly involved con
dition. One distressing item of this involvement was a lack
of evidence concerning the payment of a certain mortgage
on a house which represented almost the only available
[11]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
assets the dead man had left behind. The party holding
the mortgage denied this obligation had been liquidated and
was preparing to foreclose.
On the night of this psychic experience, my amazingly
gifted friend, Mrs. Vanderbilt Pepper, my wife (the dead
man's sister) and I were dining in our apartment in New
York, when the subject of this pending foreclosure dropped
into the discussion.
Almost as though something had been waiting to be
touched off, Mrs. Pepper was seized with the slight shudder
that preceded her entrance into the trance state. The
appearance of her face was amazingly altered, for it took
on the features of my wife's dead brother.
WHEN THE SPIRIT TALKED TO SOME PURPOSE
In a voice almost a duplicate of the voice of this brother,
Mrs. Pepper spoke. The substance of her communication
was that this disembodied personality wished to identify
himself and to assure his sister that the mortgage on their
old home in Pittsburg, Pa., had been paid. Also that the
cancelled mortgage would be found in the upper right-hand
drawer of an old-fashioned escritoire that stood in the foyer
hall in the old home.
Particular emphasis was laid on the fact that, while
diligent search had been made, even in this very drawer, a
compartment in the extreme back of the drawer had been
overlooked, and in this compartment would be found the
cancelled mortgage, together with a number of other valu
able papers.
After Mrs. Pepper had come out of this semi-trance con
dition I put in a long-distance call for the housekeeper at
the old Pittsburgh home. When the woman answered the
"phone" she was told to look in this drawer in the location
[12]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
given and state what, if anything, she found. I was to hold
the line in the meantime.
Within half a minute the woman, who had been with
the family for many years and who knew the importance of
the documents found, cried over the phone in an agitated
voice that she had found the cancelled mortgage and also
receipts of great importance. And so the message from this
ghost saved his family terrible financial embarrassment.
This is a beautiful and clear-cut case of spirit commun
ication. For no living soul knew where this man had hidden
this cancelled mortgage before he passed on. Therefore,
telepathy offers no possible explanation.
I forgot to add that the spirit also identified himself in
many tender and intimate ways, and showed a familiarity
with all the affairs of the family that no living person could
possibly have possessed.
May Vanderbilt Pepper, through whose instrumentality
this communication was established, was my dearly beloved
friend, and one of the greatest inspirational speakers, mes
sage bearers and psychometrists of all time.
HOW EMANUEL SWEDENBORG FOUND THE RECEIPT
It will be recalled by students of psychic phenomena
that the famous mystic, Emanuel Swedenborg, was the
medium through whom a demonstration similar to the one
I have described above, was effected. This was in the classic
case of the Dutch lady, whose husband had died, leaving
no receipt for a valuable silver service that had been made,
evidently by a rather unscrupulous smith, shortly before his
death.
The lady appealed for help to Swedenborg, who told
her that within a night or two she would find the receipt
in a certain securely hidden niche. This proved to be true.
[13]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
And it is not explainable in any other way than the lady's
dead husband told Swedenborg just where to find this
receipt.
THE SPIRIT OF PATIENCE WORTH
I would urge all interested in psychic phenomena to
familiarize themselves with the painstaking investigation
made of the Intelligence, manifesting through Mrs. Paul
Lenore Curren.
This spirit, who gave her name as Patience Worth,
"came through" on the night of June 8, 19 13, at the home
of Mrs. Curren, while this lady and a number of her neigh
bors were experimenting —more or less in a spirit of fun—
with a Ouija board.
In quaint English, such as was used three hundred years
ago, this spirit communicated the fact that she was born in
England about 1649 and had lived there, a lively red-haired
lass, full of fun and life, until she grew to womanhood. In
her twenties she migrated to America. Not long after
arriving here she was killed during an attack by Indians,
which it was established, must have been during King
Philip's War.
Men were sent to England to check up on descriptions
of Patience Worth's native country, which she claimed was
Dorsetshire, and to search for landmarks which she had
mentioned as existing there. Many of the landmarks to
which she had referred tallied exactly with her descriptions.
Other landmarks did not exist when the inquirers arrived,
but an exhaustive search of local records and historical
data established the fact that they had existed about the
year 1650. In addition, many of the archaic words used by
Patience, words which had not been traced to any definite
source, were found to have been colloquialisms used in
Dorsetshire about that time:
[14]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
DICTATING "PERFECT COPY"
While these investigations were being conducted, Pa
tience dictated poems of ethereal beauty and two novels of
amazing craftsmanship and erudition, Mrs. Curren acting
as amanuensis. Writers who know how difficult it is to
produce good "copy" without rewriting, polishing and trim
ming, were utterly amazed by the strange phenomena. For
Patience Worth, through Mrs. Curren, dictated poems and
novels at the unprecedented speed of one-hundred and ten
words a minute. And never was it necessary to change a
single phrase or word I
After watching, investigating and studying the phe
nomena of the case, Professor William E. Saght, formerly
professor of philosophy at Baker University, and at pres
ent professor of psychology at Cornell University, made
the following statement:
"Nothing can come from the subconscious mind without
filtering first through the conscious."
After uttering this statement, he confessed that it was im
possible for Mrs. Curren's utterances to have come from
her subconscious mind!
Professor Allison, who devoted considerable time to the
investigations and was present at a number of sittings ex
tending over a prolonged period, commented thus:
"Where Patience Worth writes in modern English, as in
her first two stories, or couches her words in the speech of
a bygone age, she shows the most wonderful command of
local color, and of the customs and humors of the past, so
that one is tempted to say that she must have seen the events
and characters she describes.
"Hope Trueblood (another novel dictated by Patience
Worth) is one of the most grfpping stories of English
[15]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
peasant life, and one of the most powerful character novels
I have ever read.
"Suppose a woman of your acquaintance who had lived
in your community for many years; and had never written
a letter or news item for a local paper, began to dictate to
her husband first class poetry in quaint idiom, novels up to
the George Eliot standard in modern style, to say nothing
of witty or profound remarks, brought out in casual con
versation with friends and visitors, what would you think?
"I have been amazed at the rapidity of Mrs. Curren's
utterances. And yet, while the method of communication
was so fast that I couldn't begin to keep pace with the
spelling, when Mr. Curren read over each paragraph of the
novel being composed, it made not only sense but beautiful
English, perfect in metre and rich in imagination.
"In one evening, fifteen poems were produced in one
hour and a quarter, an average of five minutes for each
one. All were poured out with a speed that Tennyson or
Browning could never have hoped to equal, and some of
the fifteen lyrics are so good that either of these great poets
might be proud to have written them."
That Mrs. Curren is not, consciously or unconsiously,
doing the writing herself is now generally accepted by even
the most conservative investigators who have had her under
observation for many years.
The only conclusion which the most skeptical of the
scientists could reach is best expressed in the words of the
late Dr. Walter Franklin Prince, noted psychologist and
executive officer of the Boston Society for Psychic Research,
a man who had devoted more than ten years to an extra
ordinarily painstaking scrutiny of the case of Patience
Worth.
"Either our concept of what we call the subconscious
[16]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
must be radically altered so as to include potencies of which
we hitherto have had no knowledge, or else some cause
operating through, but not originating in, the subconscious
ness of Mrs. Curren must be acknowledged."
To give you some slight idea of the beauty of the
material brought back from beyond the veil to enrich this
earth's treasures, permit me to quote a stanza from one of
Patience Worth's poems, "The Dead Skylark":
Oh, wing that hath stilled
Of beating ihe heavens, and descended!
Oh, throat that is empty and song that is gone!
Oh, eyes that knew, with intimate
Contact, the leafy glen
And the shadowy boats that swung
Beneath the sunnied leaves!
Oh, breast that panted of the joy
Of spring, and knew the thrill
Of summer's heights!
Little companion of the heavens;
What, hast thou fallen!
I have met on several occasions, here in New York, a
charming lady, Miss Rhoda Meade, who was an intimate
friend of Mrs. Curren's, and who has preserved several
hundred of these exquisite poems. Also scores of reports
of conversations, taken verbatim, showing the coruscating
brilliancy of speech, the shrewd native wisdom and the
bewildering mental capacity of Patience Worth, whose body
has been dust for almost three hundred years, but who even
now, is altogether fascinating.
[17]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
spiritism's challenge to publicity-seeking magicians
In view of all the evidence concerning psychic (or per
haps I should say supranormal phenomena) I have given,
and the scores of authenticated and thoroughly confirmed
experiences I have detailed, proving conclusively the con
tinued existence of the individual after the change we call
death, and his or her ability to communicate with us—who
are also spirits, though in the flesh —I should like to ask
all those vociferous self-advertisers who claim to be able,
by illusion and legerdemain, to duplicate anything done by
spiritistic activity :
Can you write novels and poems fashioned as exquisitely
as those produced —through the mediumship of Mrs. Paul
Lenore Curren— by "Patience Worth," that marvelously
gifted spirit of olden times?
Can you, without any paraphernalia, go into any home,
anywhere, and produce temporarily incarnated intelligences
that can give coherent messages in all languages, and that
may be held in one's arms and kissed, and whose heart beats
may be counted.
Can you hold in your hand the locket of my dead
mother and tell me certain intimate incidents in connection
with her—incidents with which I myself may not be familiar,
but which I may prove by checking?
Can you reproduce for me, on clean slates, brought by
me and held in my own hands, messages from my dear dead
relatives or intimate friends, in their own handwriting, as
proved by caligraphic tests?
Can you suspend my two-thousand pound grand piano
in mid-air while I take a flashlight of it?
Can you bring back my mother and certain other dear
ones and let me photograph them?
[18]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
Can you record the voice of a spirit on a phonograph
record?
Can you, when brought into the room stripped, place a
bouquet of roses on my table, or any one of the animate or
inanimate apports that have been brought into a locked and
door-sealed room, or give me definite information on some
matter, perhaps not even known to myself at the time, by
words spoken through a horn suspended from the ceiling —
you own mouth to be filled with water at the time ?
Can you play melodies on a banjo or an accordion,
placed in a wire cage, charged with a deadly high-tension
current?
Can you, at will, make your body so heavy that no five
men can lift you from the earth; or, again at will, make it
so light that you can float in the air?
Can you describe the labyrinth of the inner ear or the
mechanics of siderial motion —as Mrs. Pepper did, under
inspirational guidance?
Can you give thousands of messages, to persons you
have never seen, in every part of the world, and describe
for them accurately the dead father or brother who may
bring messages of profound and material importance —as
does my friend, Arthur Ford, and as do hundreds of other
message-bearing mediums in all parts of the world?
Can you produce, in wax, models of hands, feet and
faces, under conditions identical with those employed by
Dr. Geley on the Polish medium, Kluski?
Can you produce poltergeists and malignant spirits who,
by their hideous noises and terrifying actions, drive from
thousands of houses, in every part of the world, tenants
who find it absolutely impossible to live in these "haunted
places" ?
Can you materialize a spirit, entirely dissimilar in size,
[19]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
complexion, weight, pulse-rate, and color of hair from that
of the medium, while the medium is lying in full view of
world-renown scientists ? Or else secured in a straight
jacket, or strapped in an arm chair with heavy adhesive
tape?
Can you materialize an entity, under laboratory test
conditions, who will permit scientists to cut off a lock of
her hair, or a portion of finger nail, which when examined
microscopically, will be found to consist of epethelial cells
identical with those of living humans? Or which, when
incinerated, will leave an ash of exactly the same chemical
constituents as is the ash obtained from any human hair?
Can you diagnose tumors and obscure pathological con
ditions —which frequently have escaped the attention of
even the most eminent internists —as does my friend, Mrs.
Harry Oliver, and many other mediums?
Or cure thousands of mental and physical maladies
which physicians of the very highest reputation have been
unable to help in even the slightest degree, as old Dr.
Pomeroy used to do, and as scores of psychic healers are
doing every day?
Can you materialize entities capable of lifting a person
of two hundred pounds or more from the floor, and then
circling the room before droping him to the floor with a
thud, as is frequently done at Frank Decker's seances? And
this, while some person in the circle is sitting in the lap of
the deeply-tranced medium, and all other members of the
group are holding the hand of the person to the right and
to the left of them ?
Can you produce ectoplasm which can be photographed?
Or a portion of which, on occasion, may be amputated and
examined microscopically, disclosing epithelial cells from
[20]
I HAVE TALKED WITH GHOSTS
the mucous membrane in which the ectoplasm seems to
originate ?
Can you—
But why continue? I could enumerate a hundred dif
ferent phenomena, whicfi no conjurer that ever lived could
duplicate. These showmen may gain a little cheap notoriety
and quite a lot of national advertising by claiming that they
can produce these manifestations. But they know in their
hearts that they are merely duping an already super-
saturatedly duped public.
They are quite as unscrupulous as are the lying, de
ceiving mediums, who prostitute the good name of psychic
investigation, and make of it a thing of hissing and scorn.
The reader's acceptance or rejection of the facts of
bodily survival can mean nothing personally to me, except
that I would like to feel that I may have brought a message
of cheer and hope to many who are now cheerless and
hopeless.
I don't ask you to believe: I do ask you, however, to
lay aside your indifference and your ingrained prejudice and
investigate.
Some day you may come to realize that the knowledge
you have thus gained is the most important knowledge you
have ever acquired: For then you will know why you are
here. And you will have some little smattering of what you
are to be and do, when you graduate from this plane of
experience.
[21]
Chapter II
MY FIRST EXPERIENCE WITH A SPIRIT
The
winter of 1902 was a memorable one in my life.
For it was shortly after the Christmas holidays of
that year that I obtained my first convincing proof that
spirit really exists —whether carnate or excarnate.
I had gone out to Minneapolis, Minn., to deliver a
series of lectures on Suggestive Therapeutics, or the use of
hypnotic or hypnoidal suggestion for the cure or relief of
certain forms of nervous and functional disorders. The
majority of the thirty odd men and women enrolled in the
Class were practicing physicians, who desired to familiarize
themselves with the various methods of inducing hypnosis,
and with the results that might be expected from the use of
hypnotic suggestion in phobias, and in neurotic manifes
tations of one kind or another. Also in curing or helping
such habits as bed-wetting, night-terrors, masturbation,
alcohol and morphine addiction, mental backwardness due
to inability to concentrate, and incorrigibility in children.
After the course of lectures—in which I described and
illustrated the different methods, as developed by Braid,
Charcot, Bernheim, Liebeault, Hack Tuke and other ex
ponents of this very interesting and (in certain conditions)
extraordinarily effective method —the physicians brought
for treatment patients suffering from various troubles.
THE GIRL IN THE TRANCE
Among these patients was one girl—a neurotic who,
under frequently repeated hypnosis, developed remarkable
[22]
MY FIRST EXPERIENCE WITH A SPIRIT
psychic powers. With very little effort she could be placed
in a deep cataleptic sleep, in which condition she could be
made to assume such a state of rigidity that, with her head
on a padded table and her feet on a chair, her body could
hardly be bent, even by the most vigorous efforts of a heavy
man. Also she could be rendered anaesthetic, so that
sterilized hypodermic needles, or lances and bistuaries could
be thrust an inch or more into her flesh on various areas of
her body, without causing her to show the slightest evidence
of pain. More wonderful still, the flow of blood from these
punctures or incisions could be stopped instantly and per
manently by a command to the subconscious.
When it was suggested that she was inhaling the fra
grance of a flower or of some delightful perfume, she would
sniff the vapor from an uncorked bottle of hartshorne or
spirits of ammonia held under her nose, with every evidence
of pleasure. She would, following the suggestion that she
was now eating some delicious candy, chew quinine or
assafoedity pills with gusto and great apparent relish.
In this deep trance condition she also exhibited astound
ing telepathic powers. If any one of the physicians present
placed his hands firmly on her shoulders —which seemed to
make her more conscious of his presence, and possibly es
tablished also a closer psychic rapport by the exchange of
their animal magnetism —she could, provided the doctor
could focus his attention on some object or matter, tell
almost invariably the subject on which he was concentrating.
If all in the room focused their thought on some one
object (we duplicated the classical experiment with the
circle, square and other geometrical figures numerous times)
the object of our attention would be named correctly in
almost every instance.
In brief, the girl was a subject whose organism respond
[23]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
ed, in an amazing manner, to the influence of suggestion,
directed to her subliminal mind.
TELEKINESIS UNDER TEST CONDITIONS
But most remarkable of all, she was the first individual
whom I ever contacted who was able to produce telekinesis.
She was the first person I ever met who demonstrated ability
to move inanimate objects without visible physical contact.
That
is,
physcial contact—as far as her anatomical, not her
astral or psychic body was concerned
While
I
have since seen practically every phase of
psychic phenomena—and under what amounted almost to
laboratory test conditions —this experience was, without
doubt, the most astounding and revolutionary
I
have ever
known.
In order to clarify this statement
I
must emphasize that
ever since
I
was twelve years old—at which time
I
first read
Thomas Paine's "Age of Reason" —
I had become pro
gressively more and more "hard-boiled" and materialistic.
Until finally
I
arrived at
a
point where Biichner, Ernst
Haeckel, Ingersoll, Voltaire, Volney, Darwin, Huxley,
Spencer, Draper, and
a
book-shelf full of other scientists
and materialists had thoroughly made up my mind for me.
I
was
a
rabid agnostic—just as narrow, egotistical and
intolerant —God help me—as
is
the most bigoted Catholic
or Presbyterian
in
his particular form of phobia.
I
DIDN'T KNOW THAT TELEPATHY IS REALLY A
FORM OF SPIRIT COMMUNICATION
I
may state here that while
I
was at
a
loss to explain
telepathy,
it
did not occur to me at the time to class this
phenomenon as
a
manifestation of something that seems
to function apart from the body.
[24]
MY FIRST EXPERIENCE WITH A SPIRIT
But finally there occurred an incident which upset all my
previous convictions. I had been reading, in the Proceed
ings of the English Society for Physical Research, a report
of a series of experiments, conducted by a well-known
physicist in England on a hypnotized subject. In these ex
periments objects were moved from one place to another
in the room —without any apparent human contact—and
under perfect test conditions.
I decided that, with a really remarkable psychic avail
able for experiment, we might attempt to duplicate these
demonstrations. So, at our next meeting, after making the
girl comfortable on a leather couch, I put her down into
a deep hypnotic sleep. Then I commanded her to sweep
to the floor a number of papers lying on my desk, which
stood about six feet from the couch.
I repeated this command several times, without any
result. But finally, as though the girl had been concen
trating energy from some source, the papers were swept
from the desk, and zigzagged to the floor.
It was particularly cold that evening—a dry, clear
Minneapolis winter night, with the thermometer ten degrees
or more below zero. So there were no windows open in
the office in which we were conducting our experiments.
Ventilation was secured through a window in the adjoining
private office. The desk was nowhere in the line of the
very small current of air which flowed in from this window.
THE BOTTLE-SMASHING SPIRIT
Then it was suggested that an empty two dram homeo
pathic vial be placed on the desk, and the girl ordered to
cast this to the floor.
After repeated suggestions, the girl—or something that
proceeded from her—swept the vial from the desk. It fell
[25]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
to the hardwood floor, where it was smashed into a hundred
fragments.
During all this time the subject lay as one dead—in a
profound cataleptic trance. However, simultaneously with
the brushing of the papers to the floor and the dashing of
the vial from the desk, she made what seemed to be an
almost imperceptible movement with her shoulder and arm.
We all gained the impression that if the movement had
been carried to completion it would probably have amounted
to a thrust, or a sweep with the outstretched arm and hand,
as has been noted in the case of Palladino and other
mediums producing physical phenomena.
In any event, this experience helped to convert me from
my former belief in materialism and agnosticism into a
conviction of the continuity of life after death. In other
words, into a belief in spirits, even though the spirit we
had contacted in this experiment inhabited a human body.
For if the "thing" that "externalized" itself from the
body of this girl and manifested its presence six feet away
from her physical body was material —which it must have
been, according to all accepted science —then it is inde
structible.
It does not die when the physical body ceases to funtion.
It continues to live, somewhere, and in some form, forever,
although perhaps undergoing other changes from time to
time. But if it is matter in some form—as we know it must
be—it will always be found in association with force. This
means activity of some sort.
Therefore, if we take consciousness with us over into
the next life—which I now firmly believe we do—we will,
those of us who are normal and constructively inclined —
put this consciousness and this activity to constructive uses.
Those who are abnormal and destructively inclined will be
[26]
MY FIRST EXPERIENCE WITH A SPIRIT
given an opportunity to learn the error of their ways, and
to work out their own reformation. It is difficult to see
how anyone with any developed sense of fairness could
possibly ask you for a better "break" than this.
And in the meantime can you find anything debasing,
degrading, stupid or stultifying—anything that would stamp
a man or a woman an ignoramus, a dupe, cheat, liar, or nit
wit—anything that would brand him or her as a God-hater,
an enemy of true religion—in subscribing to the following
code, held and affirmed by all true spiritualists. Or by all
spiritists who, while not affiliated with any spiritualistic
church or organization, nevertheless regard these proposi
tions as basic and irrefutable.
DECLARATIONS OF PRINCIPLES
1. We believe in Infinite Intelligence.
2. We believe that the phenomena of nature, both
physical and spiritual, are the expression of Infinite In
telligence.
3. We affirm that a correct understanding of such
expression, and living in accordance therewith, constitute
true religion.
4. We affirm that the existence and personal identity
of the individual continue after the change called death.
5. We affirm that communication with the so-called
dead is a fact scientifically proven by the phenomena of
spiritualism.
6. We believe that the highest morality is contained
in the Golden Rule: "Whatsoever ye would that others
should do unto you do ye unto them."
[27]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
7. We affirm the moral responsibility of the individual,
and that he makes his own happiness or unhappiness as he
obeys or disobeys Nature's physical and spiritual laws.
8. We affirm that the doorway to reformation is never
closed against any human soul, here or hereafter.
|28J
Chapter III
CLINCHING A CONVICTION
Following
my Minneapolis experience in telekinesis
(the moving of inanimate objects without apparent
physical contact), I became intensely interested in the study
of psychic phenomena and its varied manifestations.
Admittedly, the brushing of the papers from my desk
and the breaking of the vial were manifestation of a super
normal power.
The demonstrations proved indubitably the existence of
a faculty, op a force within the body, that could not be
explained by any of the laws of physical phenomena with
which even the best informed student of physiology or
psychology is familiar. But the demonstrations did not
prove conscious existence of the entity after the change we
call death. Nor did they prove that discarnate intelligences
retain the memory of their earth life and the personality
built by them while on this plane of experience. Nor that
they are able to communicate with us—and thus prove con
clusively that they still retain memory and personality.
And yet, as I was soon to learn, the retention of memory
and the persistence of personality may be as clearly and
convincingly demonstrated as a chemical equation, or a
Euclidian problem.
Assuming that our brain has not become ossified, and
that dogma, creed, prejudice or economic determinism —
bounded on the north, south, east and west by the pocket-
book or the job—have not definitely and permanently made
[29]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
up our minds for us, the proof may be found by any con
scientious seeker. And when found, it is irrefutable.
THE FIRST "PROOF-BEARER"
The first medium to give me this affirmative assurance
of a life after death was Mrs. May Vanderbilt Pepper,
already referred to, who was the most phenomenal "mes
sage bearer" I have ever known.
May Vanderbilt was, at that time, Pastor of the First
Spiritualist Church, in Brooklyn, New York. She was a
charming, gracious woman, who gave unstintingly of her
time and vitality to progress a Cause in the service of which,
I am convinced, her earth life was shortened by many years.
Mrs. Pepper's best work was done in that semi-trance
condition which, while not interfering in the slightest with
her physical activities, enormously sharpened her cosmic
qualities and psychic powers.
I have heard her give as many as fifty different messages
during one service,—mentioning first and last names of the
communicating intelligences.
She also gave almost photographic descriptions of these
visiting friends, as they appeared in life. For test or evi
dential purposes, Mrs. Vanderbilt would often give the day,
month and year in which these persons had died, the ceme
tery in which they were buried, or the mausoleum in which
their ashes were urned, the disease of which they had died,
the names of the doctors who attended them, and a wealth
of detail which should have convinced even old Doubting
Thomas himself that the information she imparted could
have come from no one in the entire universe other than
the discarnate visitor who communicated it through her.
And yet there were thousands, wherever she went, who
insisted that May Vanderbilt was assisted by a horde of
[30]
CLINCHING A CONVICTION
spies, who scrambled around like a flock of fiddler crabs on
a tin roof, securing for her complete biographies of all the
people in all the cities in which she ever appeared.
This assistance, of course, would have been necessary,
if she had been the mountebank and faker so many people
fatuously believed she was. For even the witch of Endor,
or the Oracle of Delphi herself, couldn't have foretold,
weeks in advance of Mrs. Vanderbilt's visit to a given city,
whether or not Julius Murgatroyd Biffen or Mr. Biffen's
maiden aunt were planning to attend Mrs. Vanderbilt's
lecture.
And whether or not they would be picked out of an
audience of several hundred, or even a few thousand people
—any one of whom might be given the complete details
concerning a possible half dozen departed friends and
relatives. Or receive mesages concerning maters with which
only they and their next-world friends were acquainted.
CONTACTING THROUGH PSYCHOMETRY
Even more remarkable to my mind, however, was Mrs.
Pepper's amazing powers as a psychometrist.
For, merely by holding in her hand a flower, a watch,
ring, medallion, lock of hair, or any object that belonged
to one who had "gone over," Mrs. Pepper was able to
describe this individual, give any amount of detail con
cerning his or her characteristics or experiences, and convey
messages of the most intimate and evidential character from
this spirit to those who had brought the object psy
chometrized.
But more remarkable still, she was able to hold in her
hand a piece of lava debris from Pompeii or Herculaneum,
a fragment of a fossil bone or shell from a certain geo
logical epoch, an ancient coin from some extinct dynasty, a
[31]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
fragment of mummy cloth filched from an Egyptian or
Peruvian tomb, or any other inanimate object, and then give
in amazing detail the genesis of this specimen, the era in
which it was evolved, developed or produced, and an awe-
inspiring picture of the geological or the historical con
temporary scene.
One of the most inexplicable problems in connection
with this astonishing work was the fact that all objects,
brought to Mrs. Vanderbilt for test purposes, were securely
wrapped. No possible hint as to the contents of the package
were given. Therefore, even if she had been an archae
ologist, a geologist or a paleontologist, —which she most
emphatically was not—she could have had no possible means
of knowing the nature of the specimen in the package
handed her for psychometrical reading.
Of all my experiences in the study of psychic phenomena
I shall always regard the description of life as it must have
touched the tooth of an extinct Irish Elk, a fragment of the
skull of a Mayan Indian, the broken nose guard of a Per
sian helmet, and scores of other interesting relics I have
seen Mrs. Vanderbilt "read" as among the most perlexing
of all psychic demonstrations.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES THAT TAPPED THE
RESERVOIR OF ALL WISDOM
However, while the thousands of messages Mrs. Van
derbilt gave (mostly to those who were absolute strangers
to her) were bewildering in their accuracy, and were the
means of bringing hundreds into the acceptance of the fact
of survival of the personality after death, the really as
tonishing aspect of her work consisted in her "inspirational"
lectures.
In these discourses Mrs. Pepper would take for her
[32]
CLINCHING A CONVICTION
text subjects suggested by two or more persons in her
audience. Needless to say, these subjects were often of the
most abtruse character, purposely designed to confuse or
trap the lecturer.
I remember one notably brilliant lecture in which Mrs.
Pepper gave an illuminating exposition of the Kantian doc
trine of Time and Space, as promulgated in the "Critique
of Pure Reason," an outline of Browning's "Ring and the
Book," with verbatim et literatim quotations of a number
of outstanding verses; a complete description of the
anatomy of the middle ear, detailing, in addition, the
mechanics of sound perception. No philosopher, no master
of English literature, no aural surgeon could have done
better.
And similarly with every other field of science and
literature, Mrs. Pepper's knowledge of her theme was en
cyclopedic, her diction and phrasing perfect, her command
of an amazing vocabulary immediate and often ravishingly
poetic (where the subject matter lent itself to such treat
ment), and her facts irrefutable. And all this from a
woman who in her normal condition was entirely ignorant
of even the rudiments of the massive themes on which she
discoursed so learnedly and so brilliantly.
SCIENTIFIC "EXPLANATIONS" WHICH DO NOT EXPLAIN
I know this, positively. For Mrs. Pepper was, for
many years, a frequent visitor at our house, dining with us
several times a month when her lecture engagements per
mitted. We had every opportunity in the world to check
the fact that, in her natural or non-inspired state, this lovely
and great-souled lady had no more knowledge of the fourth
dimension, simultaneous equations, Schiller's "Robbers,"
or Shakespeare's "Titus Andronicus," or any of the
[33]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
thousands of subjects on which she was required to dis
course, than I have of Hebrew.
Of course, I am familiar with all the stock explanations
given to account for this grasp of practically all knowledge
that can be expressed in the English language —"tapping
the reservoir of the unconscious," "universal telepathic
rapport," "a subliminal super-activity," etc., etc. None of
these, however, is so easy to believe as the simple statement
made by Mrs. Pepper, that she is merely the instrument
through which those great intelligences on the other plane
communicate with us on Phis plane. That this seems more
plausible is further evidenced by the fact that, occasionally,
the intelligence governing the medium at that time would
stop to explain that he was not qualified to answer a certain
technical question, or to discuss some obscure point in
philosophy, sociology, or the higher criticism, and that he
would enquire from someone who could give this infor
mation. At such times, the medium would stand rapt, as
though listening intently, often for a minute at a time, after
which her eyes would light, and she (or the intelligence that
animated her) might say, "Professor Gray says so and so"
(in relation to some mooted point in anatomy), or "Draper,
in his Intellectual Development of Europe, directs attention
to the fact that"—and so forth.
NONE SO BLIND AS THOSE WHO REFUSE TO SEE
It was many years after I had witnessed—through Mrs.
Pepper and a score of other mediums—manifold evidences
of communication, by those whose earthly bodies were
mouldering in the grave, or peacefully reposing in some
niche in a mortuary, that I understood the significance of
the cynic's despondent observation "There are none so blind
as those who won't see."
[34]
CLINCHING A CONVICTION
At first it seemed utterly incongruous and unbelievable
that men and women whose "intelligence quotient" seemed
normal—who had eyes to see, ears to hear, tactile nerves
to feel and a brain with which to reason—could possibly
hear the same messages and discourses, witness the same
demonstrations that six million or more spiritists in this
world have seen, heard and felt, and still flout and jeer at
spiritualism and its phenomena.
Nevertheless, seemingly intelligent men and women—
writers, doctors, lawyers, engineers, chemists, and indi
viduals who had achieved signal success in their particular
line of work; —might hear May Vanderbilt Pepper give her
marvelously accurate messages to a couple of hundred
strangers, or exhibit an astounding knowledge of science
and literature, disclosed in a beautifully proportioned and
exquisitely delivered lecture, and still say "Bosh —it's just
an act, done by means of a code, or through confederates."
Or else that "She 'planted' a number of her 'willing
helpers' in the audience, and 'boned up' on the questions
asked or subjects suggested for the lectures."
So obtuse and thick-headed are these people that they
couldn't possibly understand that the teaching staffs of all
the colleges in the world couldn't possibly answer the
questions propounded to Mrs. Vanderbilt, or discourse on
the diversely varied matters submitted for her lecture
subjects.
Men and women —rational and mentally competent on
almost any other subject — are prejudiced, intolerant,
bigoted and hostile, to an almost unbelievable extent, when
confronted with evidence which automatically demands
from them a decision respecting certain ingrained con
ceptions concerning the hereafter.
They are infinitely more willing to insist that they are
[35]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
deaf, dumb and blind, or the victims of some form of
hallucination —implying absolute mental incompetency—
rather than to admit the genuineness of a series of mes
sages, or the verity of phenomena, produced under test
conditions of their own devising.
It is all very disheartening, at times. And yet, it is
comforting to know that evolution is only in its initial stages
of development. That cannibalism is no longer universally
practiced. That a relative degree of freedom of speech is
now permitted —in a limited section of the world. That
a fair percentage of people are now learning to think. And
that, whether or not the majority will ever learn what has
been proved, thousands upon thousands of times, and
recorded in a whole library of books, should be only of
slight consequence to those who have been privileged to see
the light, and who have had sufficient intelligence to accept
its truth.
[36]
Chapter IV
WHAT FORM OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
IS MOST CONVINCING?
The
spiritist, anxious to bring the boon of belief in
continuity of life and correct understanding of the
hereafter to those lacking in knowledge of the subject, or
to those avowedly skeptical, is often asked "what is the
most practical and convincing way of demonstrating this
truth?"
Naturally, there is a wide difference of opinion on this
subject. What convinces one person may leave another
quite unmoved.
Speaking for myself I may say that, while I am de
lighted to receive information or to discuss ethics, religion
or next-world philosophy with intelligences brought in by
a competent message-bearing medium, I am sensible of the
fact that the information these entities impart, or the mes
sages they bring, are difficult of acceptance by the novice.
In my opinion, it is infinitely more convincing to see,
feel, hear, and talk with completely or even partially
materialized entities—than it is to listen to an inspirational
speaker tell us of the last hours of Socrates—as described
by Plato. For if the matter seems important, we can read
it for ourselves in the "Phaedo."
It is much more interesting to see rapports brought into
a room —under test conditions —receive a flower from the
hand of a materialized spirit, feel the medium and the
medium's chair levitated from the floor and floated around
[37]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
the room, than it is to hear that Aunt Martha is happy,
that her progress in her present plane of experience is
highly satisfactory, and that she is doing all she possibly
can to help Grandpa Higgenbottom's rheumatism, or Uncle
Myopia's bunions.
It is an infinitely more thrilling experience to hold to
one's breast the fully materialized spirit of a mother, to
hear her dear voice—with its familiar Irish brogue, as mine
still has —and to feel her kiss on one's cheek, than it is to
listen to an incompetent medium—and, I repeat, fully
twenty-five per cent of them are incompetent —stumbling
and fumbling around to find out whether anyone in the
audience "knows Charlie." And then, selecting one rela
tive or friend who seems most promising, give him a
rambling, incoherent message, purporting to come from
"Charlie."
I would not, for a moment, minimize the solace afforded
in some message from one who has passed over into a less
hag-ridden and economically-bedeviled world life than this.
Nevertheless, I feel that the real importance of spirit com
munication is to establish definitely the continuity of life
and the persistence of personality.
THE GREAT VALUE OF THE SPIRIT-BORNE MESSAGE
I cheerfully admit that I have listened to thousands of
messages that were veritable angel-winged blessings. That
poured joy, hope, courage and comfort into the hearts of
those who received the communications.
I know of countless instances in which the inspired
advice of these discarnate ones directed attention to a
developing malady. And during a stage in which the
advised could forestall a serious, or perhaps even a fatal
[38]
WHAT FORM OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IS MOST CONVINCING?
illness. Or else seek surgical aid in time to remove what
would inevitably have developed into a fatal pathology.
I have known advice given in respect to mundane
matters, of priceless value. Or warnings against taking a
certain journey, which might have resulted in death in a
sinking ship or a railroad wreck.
Or caution against driving an automobile which, while
apparently sound, proved to have some defect which, had
the auto not been overhauled, would have caused an
accident, resulting in death or serious injury to the one
receiving the warning.
Naturally, I must also commend the message that car
ries with it a true note of spirituality, that points a path and
directs a course that must prove of inestimable value to the
pilgrim, heaven-bound. Or such direct and evidential mes
sages as used to be given by May Vanderbilt Pepper, which
might run something like this.
THE IRREFUTABLE EVIDENTIAL MESSAGE
"I am led to you—the little lady sitting in the fourth
seat from the right, center aisle, third row.
"Your name is Amy Louise Gates. Your father, George
Leonard Chapman, is here. He asks me to tell you that
he was killed at the battle of Ypres. His leg was blown
off by a shell and he bled to death.
"He says that all these facts are known to you. They
were told to you personally by his buddy, Dick Burbank,
who now resides at 419 Buena Vista Street, Los Angeles,
California.
"Your father also bids me to tell you how glad he is
that you married your old childhood friend, Edwin Gates,
in 1
92 1, and of the joy he gets from seeing the love that
[39]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
flows between your two little children and you and your
husband.
"He wants me to tell you that you are being helped in
your writing from the other side, and that you will make
a great success of this very interesting work."
And so forth—down to the finest possible detail —
names, dates, facts, impressions, activities —everything!
And with almost mathematical accuracy. And this, while
her face is transfigured —often into a startling resemblance
of the entity whose message-bearer she
is,
for the time
being.
Mr. Arthur Ford, in my opinion, the best of all
contemporary message-bearers — Mrs. Eilene Garrett,
a
charming English lady —brought over here for an extensive
series of experiments
by
the American Society for Physical
Research —and
a
number of others —not quite so proficient
as these two master messengers, but accurate,
in
the main—
have brought conviction of an endless life to thousands,
in
all parts of the world.
Compared with the messages, brought
by
these men and
women, the relatively unconvincing tests made with Mrs.
Piper, of Boston, seem like the immature efforts of
a
novice. And yet,
it
will be remembered that Mrs. Piper
has played
a
very important role
in
securing acceptance of
spirit communication by many of the world's leading
scientists.
BUT PHYSICAL PHENOMENA "CARRIES A PUNCH"
Nevertheless,
I
am convinced that physical phenomena
—produced by
a
reputable medium, and under strictest
conditions —carries
a
far greater degree of conviction —
particularly to those who are scientifically trained —or even
[40]
WHAT FORM OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IS MOST CONVINCING?
materialistic-minded —than even the most meticulously ac
curate of spirit messages.
Telepathy, mind-reading, plain and fancy guessing, or
adroit "pumping" of the individual by means of leading
questions, cannot cause two or three phosphorus-banded
trumpets to whirl around the room and up to the ceiling,
like streaks of light. Or enable a duet or a trio of voices
to be harmonized in a song—heard by everyone in the room.
Nor can the spies' biographies, nor the confederate or
accomplices, "planted" in various parts of the hall, levitate
a piano from the floor, write evidential messages on a slate
or a pad of paper, brought into the room by the recipient
of the message, and held by him in his own hand all the
time. And more especially if this is in the handwriting of
the discarnate one who signs the message.
No lecturer on psychic phenomena could possibly carry
the same amount of weight with an investigator as would a
photograph—taken on a plate brought in by the skeptic
himself—and which, when developed, would show "extras"
—spirit faces, grouped around the face of the sitter, as is
done every day by Dr. John Myers, of London, England,
unquestionably the world's most authentic "spirit pho
tographer," concerning whom I shall have more to say later.
It is because of these, and a score of other reasons,
that I prefer physical phenomena to clairaudient, clair
voyant, or automatically written messages.
A denial of audible messages by a group of sincere
investigators —while the medium is under perfect control—
would be a confession of deafness, dumbness, or imbe
cility on the part of everyone present. For the investi
gators would all hear the same thing.
Denial of the presence of materialized entities—seen
and heard by all in the room, would signify that the sitters
[41]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
themselves were bringing these presences into the room —
for the purpose of bamboozling themselves.
Which explanation would be much more difficult to
accept than to assume that they were all high-grade idiots,
or low-grade morons, who would be much better employed
cutting out paper dolls, or sticking out their tongues and
making faces at one another.
HAUNTED HOUSES
There is still another phase of physical phenomena
which has excited tremendous interest for hundreds of years
i—even on the part of those who are avowedly skeptical
regarding spirits, or the possibility of their return.
This has to do with so-called "haunted houses," found
in almost every part of the civilized and uncivilized world.
But more particularly in habitations, or in those old castles
in which horrid deeds of violence have been done, or torture
of frightful nature inflicted.
The spirits of those who have thus suffered appear to
have been soul-shocked by their experience —walking the
witching hours of night, moaning, shrieking or wringing
their hands—making life miserable for those who may live
in the place—or who may be temporarily domiciled there.
Or else they may repeat, over and over again, the last
act of their strange, eventful tragedy —as when a suicide,
for instance, enacts the method by which he hanged, shot or
poisoned himself.
Other earth-bound spirits may be merely harmless
wraiths, so attached to the place in which they had lived as
seemingly to be unable to leave it.
They may wander aimlessly through familiar halls and
rooms and seat themselves in their favorite chair. Or, as
is the case in several old-world abbeys, they may persue
[42]
WHAT FORM OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IS MOST CONVINCING?
their futile monkishness, and waste still more of the life
they should be utilizing for progression.
These are the gentle, harmless spirits, whose only fault
is their stupidity and monoideaism.
On the other hand, many discarnate entities are vin
dictive and revengeful, visiting their hatred in various ways,
as did the malignant ghost my brother and I met in the
haunted house; or the spirits who broke the slates over Jim
Reilly's head—accounts of which I have described else
where in these pages.
The clergy, much wiser than the skeptic in these matters,
recognize the fact that earth-bound spirits may become
hair-raising sources of terror to most people, and economic
liabilities to property owners —for it is obvious that none
but the most stout-hearted would ever think of renting,
much less buying, a house known to be ghost-infested.
Hence the book and bell, the candle and holy water,
and the commands of the exorcist—which not infrequently
sends the ghost on his way, to begin a normal development
in spirit life.
THE "GHOST LAYER"
It may be of great interest to many, convinced that all
who believe in spirits are demented, to know that there is
at least one person in this country who is a professional
"ghost layer."
This is Mr. F. M. Sebree, a quiet, mild-mannered man,
of middle age, living in Los Angeles, California —where
lives Dr. Wickland, who coaxes or browbeats possessing
spirits out of the bodies and brains of his obsessed patients.
Mr. Sebree's activities are devoted to reasoning with
spirits, showing them the error of their ways, and per
suading them to vacate the premises he is hired to
"dehaunt."
[43]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
This may cause Mr. Brisbane's lip to curve sideways,
or give Mr. Dunninger an opportunity to explain why the
owner of a house he thinks is haunted persists in disguising
himself as some man or woman who once lived in the house,
and then amuse himself every night by crawling into bed
with his tenant, or with anyone else who might chance to
be there at the time.
Or else he might ventriloquize an unearthly din, rep
resenting a murder in the attic, followed by the bounding
of a dead body down stairs—to the accompaniment of
clattering pots and pans, or clanking chains ; or perhaps the
tenants themselves may only imagine all this and seek other
quarters immediately, because they are fond of moving.
In any event the owner of the place keeps up the farce
to the end by paying Mr. Sebree a goodly fee for ridding
his unrentable and unsalable hacienda of the result of his
own silly prank—played at the imminent risk of having his
head blown off while thus disporting himself.
The technic of de-haunting is familiar to every spiritist.
It consists of installing a "cabinet," inside of which are
placed fresh flowers and a music box—for the purpose of
bringing about a more harmonious vibration.
In addition to this Sebree places on the floor the or
dinary aluminum trumpet, familiar to all who have ever
attended a trumpet seance.
With the coming of night Sebree seats himself in the
cabinet, and starts up his tinkling music box and waits
developments. When the spirit makes its appearance
Sebree addresses him in a friendly way, and tries to gain
his confidence. Then he reasons with the spirit and explains
things the entity doesn't understand or hasn't yet learned.
Sebree assures the spirit that he is not only retarding his
own progress in the plane on which he now finds himself,
[44]
WHAT FORM OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IS MOST CONVINCING?
but that he is also harrassing and frightening innocent
people on this plane, who never did him any wrong.
Usually these arguments suffice, and soon the spirit is on
his way to better things.
Occasionally, however, Sebree contacts a "tough
hombre." When this occurs he calls in a few spiritist
friends, with their guides. The combined efforts of mediums
and guides almost invariably suffice to steer or push the
recalcitrant one on his way, although sometimes this may
take many months of patient effort.
Sebree is usually able to diagnose the character of a
haunting spirit by the color of his aura. The vicious,
malignant ones have an aura that is almost black.
As the spirit is gradually tamed his aura turns from
black to muddy green, then to clear green, red, orange,
yellow, light blue, purple, and finally to liquid silver. After
which the discarnate one is ready for "graduation."
"THE MILLENIUM IS A LONG WAY OFF"
Perhaps the time may come, when earthbound spirits,
haunting houses or structures in any part of the world, may
be given their chance for progression, just as a demented
person or a melancholic today may receive psychiatric treat
ment.
This time, however, may be a good many thousand
years in the future. It may come, perhaps, after we have
learned that the bestial, wholesale murder called war is
abhorred by the spirit world —in fact, that it is considered
by them as the greatest of all crimes. And that every
deluded fool and every black-hearted bandit who starts
one will be required —when he finally catches up with his
conscience on the other side—to make restitution for the
wrong he has done and the suffering he has caused, and in
[45]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
good deeds and services rendered finally wipe the slate
clean of his crime.
Perhaps the psychic treatment of the discarnate will
come after we have given more conscientious attention to
those now living—those who are now rotting to pieces or
falling apart from our present neglect.
Or else dying of malnutrition and starvation, because
we now have too much meat, milk, grain, fruit, and food
stuffs generally —which surplus we have not the intelligence
nor the decency properly to distribute.
Those who are responsible for these crimes—who have
perpetuated them by their selfishness and avarice —will have
much to answer for, when they are finally slid into the next
plane—where earth-life dignity, politically-acquired honors
and financial power count as nothing. But where real
sympathy and understanding, and the earnest desire to help
humankind, instead of bank balances, will be qualifications
vitally necessary before they can become even a Entered
Apprentice in spiritual development.
[46]
Chapter V
FRANK DECKER—DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL
PHENOMONIST
"VNE of the best and most convincing of all forms of
\J mediumship —except perhaps full materialization in
a satisfactory light—is what is known as "trumpet and
materialization phenomena." In this form of psychic
demonstration the medium is seated in the center of a circle
of from a half dozen to as many as two hundred men and
women.
Of course, in "private readings" only one or two people
sit with the medium. However, at these times, the phe
nomena are rarely as varied or as startling as when there
is a large group —among whom may be sensitives, from
whom the medium can draw the ectoplasm necessary for
the building up of his materializations.
These materializations may consist merely in the de
velopment of the vocal mechanism—larynx, vocal chords,
tongue, palate and possibly the nasal chambers and the teeth
—as obviously spoken words—combinations of vowels and
consonants —cannot be produced without a "voice box."
There must also be some sort of simulacrum to an ag
gregation of brain cells. For to us, thought —or rather the
expression of intelligent ideas, without a brain in which
these thoughts could be germinated, and from which they
could be communicated —would be unthinkable.
Many experienced students of psychic matters believe
that well-developed trumpet mediumship —in which voices
[47]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
are heard and coherent messages given—obviously in
dependent of the medium—are among the most conclusive
and irrefutable of all psychic manifestations.
In fact, it is claimed that more people have accepted the
validity of spirit communication because of trumpet
mediumship than because of any other form of psychic
demonstration.
To become an effective "instrument" in this phase re
quires years of patient and persistent effort. The best
known trumpet mediums in this country are Cartheuser,
Frank Decker, Mrs. Ethel Post and Pearl Long.
These mediums have been repeatedly tested before
various research bodies, and have received endorsement as
to the genuineness of the phenomena they produce,
although there
is,
naturally,
a
wide difference of opinion as
to the source of the phenomena.
In other words, as to whether the phenomena originate
with the medium—independently of any aid from discar-
nate intelligences —or whether they are what the mediums
themselves purport them to be—manifestations
of
a small
army
of
spirits —who merely use the medium as we would
use
a
telephone or
a
radio receiver.
MOST GIFTED OF MEDIUMS
The most gifted of all trumpet mediums,
in
my opinion,
is
Mr. Frank Decker, an extremely modest and thoroughly
sincere young man, just
a
bit on the gray side of forty.
Decker
is
an American, born of Syrian ancestry.
He was first conscious of psychic powers when he was
about ten years of age, at which time he began to see faces
and forms which, when he described them, proved to be the
faces and forms of people long dead.
Later he met Mr. Richard Worrall, of Wilkes Barre.
[48]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
Pa., who evidently understood his psychic gift. "He took
me with him," Mr. Decker tells us, "and we would sit to
gether for a long time. And often when we were in the
woods sitting together all sorts of people materialized, and
voices came through, which we both heard. Gradually
many phases of mediumship have come to me, for which I
am grateful."
I have been privileged to observe Mr. Decker's work
for more than six years, and have found in him a perennial
source of interest, for not only is he almost uniformly de
pendable —rarely "drawing a blank"—but his power seems
to be steadily increasing. So that he brings forth—or
rather his guides produce, through him—new and in
teresting phenomena, in novel and fascinating variety.
Mr. Joseph de Wyckoff, whom I shall have further oc
casion to quote in these pages —believes as I do respecting
Decker's phenomenal psychic powers.
In the "Psychic News" of March 24, 1934, de Wyckoff
speaks of Decker: "On a former occasion, this writer has
stated that he personally noted almost every known form
of mediumship in this rare psychic, to wit, direct voice,
telekinesis, levitation of medium and sitters, full form ma
terializations and etherealizations in good red light, clair-
audience, clairvoyance, speaking in tongues (glasolalia),
slate-writing and transfiguration."
A WORD ABOUT CENSIGOL GAS
One reason for Decker's exceptional powers —so his
guides insist—is due to the use his spirits make of censigol
or "sensigol" gas, mixed with his ectoplasm and the tele-
plasm extracted from those who sit with him.
This peculiar gas —unknown to scientists on this earth
plane —was discovered by Dr. Wilbur Stoddard, an al
[49]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
chemist, and his other-world associates, who were only a
memory even when Scheele, the Apothecary, stood on the
plain and gazed into that dim distance where chemistry was
being born into the world.
Mrs. Helen Wells has received from Dr. Stoddard
clairaudiently some account of sensigol gas, its derivation
and remarkable characteristics. Dr. Stoddard contends
that "in the center of the solar-plexus system lies a small
sac which contains an essence called by us Censigol. All
possess this in a minute degree. In a phyical medium this
sac is enlarged and is able to discharge its contents into
the air through the pores of the skin. It is odorless, im
perceptible, but if a medium feels a "drawing sensation at
the solar-plexus' he can know that the law of attraction is
bringing from its sac in the nerve-center the essence which
will evaporate into the atmosphere, for the 'chemical
laboratory.'
"In other words, Mr. Decker is a magnet which helps
to draw the Sensigol chemicalized gas from physical
mediums. We combine this gas (or chemical) with other
chemicals which you are all giving out with every breath,
and with it we can produce the phenomena which you
witness.
"This chemical is of course originally extracted from
the surrounding atmosphere. Just as one flower draws
those chemicals which produce red.
"The Censigol gas holds particles in solution a much
longer time than any ectoplasm we have yet found. If the
medium will keep his body (which is his mechanical ap
paratus upon which the workers here depend on success) in
good order, and thereby aid us by giving to us a perfect phy
sical instrument with which to perform our work, we can
[50]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
perfect a system by which the Censigol gas can be produced
without any drain whatever upon the medium's health."
Whatever there may be of scientific fact in this explana
tion—and we have no present laboratory means of either
proving or disproving the matter —it is nevertheless possible,
in the presence of Decker, and presumably because of the
employment of the potent Censigol gas in these seances, to
note an immediate decline of five to ten degrees in the tem
perature of a room, to feel cold breezes blowing, to note a
vibration clearly perceptible even in adjoining rooms —al
most identical with the "trembler," familiar to those who live
in Mexico, Southern California and other earthquake
regions —and distinctly to smell perfumes of most extra
ordinary fragrance and delicacy. It is all very wonderful
and thought-provoking.
Among the guides who attend Decker are Bert Wells,
son of Mrs. Helen Wells, president of the Spiritual and
Ethical Society, a splendid young chap—graduate of Wil
liams College—who passed into spirit some twenty years
ago, at the age of thirty-five.
Bert acts somewhat in the capacity of "master of cere
monies" at Decker's seances, directing the order in which
the spirit visitors shall "come through," and assisting in
this effort, as well as in the general character of the psychic
demonstrations.
MOST CHARMING SPIRIT I HAVE EVER MET
Associated with Bert Wells is a charming and happy-
hearted boy known as Patsy. He was killed in an accident
some years ago in Chicago, and is believed to have been
about twleve years of age when he passed over. He always
manifests as a young boy.
Patsy is truly the "beloved spirit" —witty, wise, ever
[51]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
alert and anxious to help those who desire to get in touch
with their dear ones. Because of this super-willingness to
serve he is affectionately known as the "Door Opener."
Patsy is a really amazing personality, unforgettable by any
who has ever come in contact with him.
Carlton Childs is the third member of the "Three Mus
keteers," as they are familiarly known. He helps materially
in the general conduct of the seances.
In addition to these "regulars," frequent "visitors" are
Pythagoras (600 B.C.) greatest among the intellects of
ancient Greece; Abdul el Hassan, (Arab Pasha 100 B.C.)
Omar Khayyam, Persian poet, Appolonius of Tyanna;
(Philosopher 20 A.D.). Also Alonzo P. Matthewson
(Astronomer) and Dr. Wilbur Stoddard (1792, reputed
discoverer of censigol gas, mentioned above,) who de
veloped much of the unique scientific phenomena, familiar
to all who have attended Decker's seances.
Among the guides also are a number of Indians, among
whom is White Eagle, a healing spirit—although he objects
strenuously to being called a "medicine man." White Eagle
is of giant size—at least six feet nine inches —and built in
proportion. He has given me many treatments for brachial
neuritis —from which I suffered until recently, and from
which treatments I derived considerable relief.
Also he has levitated me on several occasions, to my
great delight and edification.
Another frequent visitor is Jim Riley, usually known as
"Farmer Riley," one of the greatest materializing psychics
that ever lived. I shall refer to the work of this dear spirit
friend in a later chapter.
During one of my earliest experiences with Decker he
brought into his seance rooms, under strict test conditions,
personalities who definitely identified themselves, and who
[52]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
gave messages to various members of the group in English,
French, German, Chinese and Italian.
Pythagoras, the great Greek philosopher, appeared one
evening and spoke—at first in a language recognized by a
classical student present as Greek—after which he contin
ued his discourse in the science of vibrational significance
in English.
A BLESSING FROM ABDUL BAHA
The spirit of the great Persian prophet and master,
Abdul Baha, was materialized on several occasions. He
gave us his blessing in Arabic, after which he discoursed
learnedly in English on matters connected with psychic
development.
This great spirit also materialized—apparently in full
form. I could feel his thoroughly developed hands as they
took me by the arms to lead me around the room. Also,
I distinctly felt his shoulders and chest, as he happened to
press against me in guiding my course.
Patsy materialized in a manner that enabled him to un
button one's vest, remove a necktie clasp, and carry it to a
lady on the opposite side of the room. Or to unfasten and
remove from the neck of any woman present a string of
beads and take them to some lady who might ask to have the
beads placed in her hand, or clasped about her neck.
Also, Patsy came over and removed one of my shoes,
tightly laced and impossible of removal by normal means;
i.e., without unlacing the shoe, after which he placed the
shoe in the lap of a doctor sitting at the extreme opposite
of the room.
I may state here that no human being—not even the
greatest juggler in the world—could have removed this
tightly-laced shoe, unless he could partially dematerialize my
[53]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
foot—as Patsy told us he did —before removing the shoe.
After Patsy had placed my shoe in the physician's lap
and had given him an opportunity to verify the fact that it
was a shoe —and unlaced—he took it from the hand of the
medical man and laid it on the floor.
THE SPIRIT VALET
He then requested the doctor to stand up and turn
around. Then he removed the doctor's coat, which he
brought over and laid in my lap. The boy would have made
a great valet.
Patsy also took up a bouquet of roses from a vase in the
center of the room. One of these roses was placed in the
hands of each of the twelve or more sitters in the circle. In
his round Patsy sprinkled a number of the men sitters with
water, laughing his hilarious explosive the while.
The phenomena which afforded the group the greatest
amount of satisfaction, however, were the messages, de
livered in various languages to different members of the
group, on matters which were considered conclusively evi
dential, as regards the personality of the one purporting
to deliver these messages.
IS THIS CONVINCING?
In another seance, shortly afterwards, Decker's little
familiar guide carried a tiny Swiss music box to each sitter
in the circle of a dozen or more. Each of us, under the
pressure of Patsy's guiding finger, manipulated the lever
that started the tinkling melody, and then, at Patsy's re
quest, shut it off again.
And all this while one member of the circle stood behind
Decker's chair, with both hands on the medium's shoulders
—insuring Decker's presence in that particular spot.
[54]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
When Patsy handed me the music box and guided my
index finger toward the lever, there was no sound from the
device. I suggested to the boy that perhaps the machine
needed winding.
Patsy, in his clear, business-like voice, said:
"Give it to me, I'll wind it."
The task of turning the winding key was evidently be
yond Patsy's strength, however, for in a few seconds he
passed the instrument back, saying:
"Here, Doc, you wind it."
I wound up the rather stiff spring, pressed the lever, set
the music agoing, and returned the box to the little lad.
Patsy then carried the box from one corner of the room to
the other, calling out from time to time—"Do you hear it?
Do you hear it?"
To me, as well as to all the other sitters in the circle,
this was a most convincing demonstration of physical
phenomena.
However, that night Patsy had something even more
interesting for our group and myself. This particular phase
of psychic phenomenon I had never before encountered. In
fact, so far as I know, no similar manifestation has ever
yet been reported in any psychic research "Proceedings."
A NEW METHOD OF BLOWING THE HARMONICA
The incident developed in this manner. On entering
the room at the beginning of the evening, Frank Decker
met me and handed me a small mouth organ.
"Put this in your inside vest pocket," he said.
"What's the idea?" I inquired.
"You'll find out after a while," he answered.
I then unbuttoned my coat and my vest, placed the har
monica in my inside pocket, and rebuttoned the vest and
[55]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
coat. I had almost forgotten about the mouth organ when
suddenly Patsy slapped me on the breast, and said :
"Say, Doc, do you know you've got my mouth organ?"
I responded : "So I have, Patsy. What shall I do with
it?"
"Do nothing," he replied, "until I tell you."
A moment afterwards I felt Patsy's deft little hands
unbutton my coat and then my vest. Then he slipped one
hand into my pocket, withdrew the harmonica and placed
it in my hand.
"Now," he invited, "close your two hands tight over
it,
and I'll blow into
it
for you, right through your hands. Just
hold them up."
I
did as directed, covering the instrument completely and
elevating my hands to the height of my shoulder. In
a
moment
I
distinctly felt
a
current that seemed, for all the
world, like
a
warm breath on the back of my hands.
After
a
few seconds
I
heard —as did everyone else in
the room —the chord "blown" on the mouth organ, through
my cupped and tightly closed hands.
I
inquired, "How do you do this, Patsy?"
He answered: "Did you feel it? That's the new elec
trical method we're working on over here."
I
was informed by my wife and four others who had
sat with Decker the preceding week that these identical
phenomena had been produced at that time.
I
was also informed that Mr. William H. Button, Pres
ident of the American Society for Psychical Research, and
Mr. Sydney Rosenbaum, prominent lawyer, had also been
present that night, and had witnessed the phenomena, which
they then declared was the most convincing they had ever
seen
in
all their experience.
I
was further informed that Mr. Rosenbaum had stood
[56]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
back of Frank's chair while these manifestations were in
progress, to prevent any possibility of deception on the part
of Decker.
However, on the evening of the seance I am describing,
I had a further experience, which, to my mind, dwarfs even
the splendid work of Patsy himself.
On this particular evening and many times thereafter,
I was convinced of the identity of a fully materialized entity,
and was by him lifted bodily from the floor and dropped
from a height of a foot or more, three or four times.
However, these experiences tally so closely with those
which Mr. John J. O'Neill has so interestingly and graph
ically described in another chapter, that I will not repeat
them here. Suffice is it to say that my numerous experiences
in levitation by identifyable spirits during Mr. Decker's
seances practically duplicate those of Mr. O'Neill's.
However, there is one experience I had with Decker
which will always stand out as a red letter occasion in my
memory. This was the night I met a brother Mason, who
had seen the temple completed and had "gone to travel in
foreign lands."
This incident should be of profound interest to every
man who has ever, in his time, impersonated the widow's son
in that beautiful drama which is the Third Degree in
Masonry.
THE SPIRIT FREE MASON
This incident occurred during a seance several years ago
with Frank Decker. To me, and to all Masons, it con
stitutes absolutely irrefutable evidence. For it concerns the
sacredness of an obligation, the principles and practice of
which could be known only by those who have taken these
obligations.
[57]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Now, as every Mason knows, there are certain signs and
tokens by which one Mason may know another in the dark
as in the light. However, it is a unique and unusual ex
perience to realize that these secrets are carried over into
the next plane and preserved inviolate. And also, that one
Mason may know another after death, as in life.
Present at this seance were a half dozen careful ob
servers, two of whom were avowed skeptics. After a half
hour or more of intensely interesting manifestations —which
included the levitation of three phosporus-banded trumpets
simultaneously, the trumpets being whirled around the
darkened room with incredible rapidity—passing in and out
among the bodies of the sitters with an accuracy bewildering
to those among the group, not familiar with this phenomena
—the spirit of Bert Wells, "came through."
I conceived the idea at that time of attempting a crucial
test with Bert. So I asked him a question, couched in
Masonic terminology. Bert was completely bewildered as to
"what it was all about." So I said "All right, Bert. I
was just trying to find out whether or not you had ever been
a Mason."
Wells replied, "No, I never have been. But I will bring
a Mason to you. Just wait a minute."
We waited in silence for a brief interval, when suddenly,
close against my ear, a voice whispered the name of one of
the three whom every Mason must meet in his journey
toward the East. Also I felt a solid, material hand fall
heavily on my shoulder, in the manner every Mason has
experienced.
Then the voice continued —this time in a resonant tone
"Bert Wells tells me you expressed a desire to meet a
brother Mason. I am a Mason and am here to give you
proof of the fact."
[58]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
With this he gave me the grip and whispered the pass
words of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master
Mason.
Then he said, "There
is,
you know, one word which
is
supposed to be given only under certain conditions and only
when you have placed yourself
in
the proper position to
receive it. Stand up, and
I
will give you this word."
He then,
in
the pitch dark, and
in
form fully ma
terialized —so far as solidity and tangibility were concerned
—made the requisite points of contact, and with his lips
touching my ear, whispered the secret word of Master
Mason.
I
do not believe that,
in
all my years of experience,
I
have
ever had
a
clearer and more definite proof of survival of
personality.
Remember that the medium, Frank Decker,
is
not
a
Mason. Neither were there any Masons among the sitters
present. And further, Decker was thoroughly secured, his
arms being held
by
the person sitting at either side of him.
It
would be highly edifying to see some magician or
slight of hand performer duplicate this interesting demon
stration, under similar conditions.
ANOTHER MASON CORROBORATES MY EXPERIENCE
At the time
I
had this experience
I
believed
it
was unique.
At least,
I
had never come across anything
in
the literature
of psychic phenomena detailing
a
similar demonstration un
til
I
read,
in
the May 1931 issue of "The Psychic World"
an article by Charles Leon Ries.
Curiously enough, this article happened to be an account
of Mr. Ries' experiences at
a
seance given by Frank Decker.
I
extracted
a
portion of Mr. Ries' statement —glad to have
in
this report of
a
perfect stranger to me,
a
certain veri
[59]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
fication of my own statements concerning Decker's medium-
ship.
I quote : "A trumpet was given to each of three sitters
to hold, one of whom was myself. Shortly after this a
strong current of cold air was sensed by all, which caused
an appreciable drop in the temperature of the room.
"Immediately Patsy, who is Mr. Decker's control, came
into the room and in independent voice gave us all a cordial
welcome.
"At this time the trumpet was removed from my hands,
as were the two being held by two of the sitters, and were
whirled around the room, well up toward the ceiling. Then
Patsy spoke again and requested the singing of "Jingle
Bells," in order that the vibration might not diminish.
"For the benefit of those who do not understand the
method of procedure, let me here parenthetically state that
music is a means of producing vibration, as a result of which
messages are transmitted with greater ease.
"After the singing had ceased Patsy came over and
touched me on the back and said he was pleased to see me
among the sitters, calling me by name, and then went on to
the other sitters. When he had extended a welcome to each
and every one, he returned to me, took me by the hand,
raised me to a standing position and turned me around.
"In so doing my foot landed in a pan of water that had
been placed on the floor, and though there was no sound of
splashing, Patsy said jokingly, 'Take your foot out of the
water. Don't you know we are short of water here in New
York?'
"He then proceeded to take off my coat, saying while he
did so that he knew I must be warm and he wanted me to be
comfortable.
"At this time I should say that I was truly uncomfortably
[60]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
warm and been wishing that I would be allowed to remove
my coat.
"My coat was given to a lady across the room from
where I sat, but since she displayed considerable nervousness
it was immediately brought back and laid in my lap exactly
as a tailor folds it after pressing.
"Altogether I can say without exaggeration that my
hands were touched at least fourteen times without fumbling
by the Spirit.
"Patsy also led a lady across the room and placed her
in a chair next to mine saying I looked lonesome and so he
was bringing me company.
"In case the reader may have forgotten, let me remind
you that all this was done in a room that was totally dark.
And if you do not think that it is a difficult thing to walk
across an absolutely dark room and not stub your toes on
the furniture or bump into something, allow me to suggest
that you try it sometime for yourself and be convinced that
it is much easier to read about it than to accomplish.
"The next demonstration which I shall relate is to me
the most convincing proof of all, and will be of special
interest to those who may belong to the Masonic order, as
I do. A man's voice came through the trumpet addressing
me as one Mason would another and giving the customary
tests. Then, as if he were anxious to convince me still
further, he made the requisite points of contact, as only a
Master Mason COULD DO.
"What, I ask you, could be the answer to this, save that
some brother in the Spirit World was capable of coming
back and offering substantial proof that he still retains full
knowledge of that great and mystic order."
[61]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
FULLY MATERIALIZED MASTER MASONS
In the fascinating "Life of James Riley," the greatest
of all materializing mediums, written by A. Vlerebome, and
published by the Weiner Company, Akron, Ohio, in 191 1,
I find still another reference to the activity of Masons on
the other side, and the splendid identification they gave.
Here is the report :
"There were wonderful manifestations of spirit return
at a seance with Farmer Riley at Haslet Park camp the night
of August 24, 1892. Friends and relatives came to all in
the seance room. All were quickly recognized, as all but two
could talk and give their names so as to be plainly under
stood, and the two that could not talk were so perfect in
their make-up that their friends could quickly recognize
them.
"The Master Masons came out to me with aprons on,
one with plain white, and two with fancy blue lambskin
aprons. They gave me the signs, grips and words of the
first three degrees of Masonry, as perfectly as I ever got
them from a brother in earth life, and as correctly. Two
of the three I have sat with in Lodge on this side; Brother
John Blackmer, who passed to spirit life about eight years
ago near Devil's Lake, Dakota, and Brother George Bur
nett, who passed over one year ago at Belding, Michigan;
the other was a stranger to me, but an uncle to a lady in the
seance room. Farmer Riley is not a Mason, and his control,
Mr. Benton, told us to tell his medium that he did not want
him to join the Masons, not because he did not like
Masonry, but so people could not say it was Riley doing
this."
I am delighted to have contacted these bits of con
firmatory evidence. For, knowing Masonry and Masons
as I do—after belonging to the order for almost a quarter
[62]
FRANK DECKER— DEPENDABLE PHYSICAL PHENOMENIST
of a century—I could not possibly imagine any more con
vincing evidence of personal survival and the proven fact
of spirit communication.
[63]
Chapter VI
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS
HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
ATSY," that delightfully refreshing and ingenious
JL youngster, has developed some extraordinarily
interesting technique recently.
I may say here that, of all the hundreds of spirits I have
known on more or less intimate terms, "Patsy" seems to me
to be the most human and natural "ghost" that I've ever
shaken hands with, or held in my lap. He has a charming
and altogether friendly personality. So much so that I
can't see how any normal being can help but love him.
We were an even dozen who sat with Decker. Four of
the group, including my secretary, Miss Darwin, who ac
companied me, were avowed skeptics. Two of these novices
had never before attended a seance.
The phenomena produced were even better than usual.
First, a dozen or more highly evidential and satisfactory
messages came through. Then three different trumpets were
levitated simultaneously, and three different voices—one
speaking in German —came simultaneously into the vibration
of three different sitters.
Next there occurred a number of demonstrations in
telekinesis.
"Toby," one of the guides of Mr. McBeth — famous
independent writing medium, who was present—materialized
in a remarkably substantial form. "Toby," so McBeth tells
us, was a priest in his earth life, who passed over in the
[64]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
year 1853. He was a giant of a man—six feet six inches
tall, and built like a Hercules.
The entity who materialized certainly filled these speci
fications. For, he reached down, grasped me firmly by both
wrists with a pair of enormous hands, drew me to my feet
as though I were a feather, stood me close beside him, and
then pressed me, with a quick squeeze, to his tremendous
and fully materialized breast.
Then he took my right hand and carried it straight up
in the air, almost to arm's length. After this he brought
it over and down on top of his own head, which was un
questionably a good six feet six inches from the floor.
He pounded my hand on his head—which seemed to
have materialized a skull as dense as any of the skulls I
have held hundreds of times in my hands.
"Feel the hair," he said to me. I had already noticed
the coarse, thick hair.
Then he drew my hand slowly down his face —a fully-
formed face, with fine even features—after which he took
my hand and drew it along his arm, ending by patting, or
rather slapping, my hand firmly, and leading me back to my
seat.
"Toby" went through a similar procedure with two
other sitters present, both skeptics, but now converts to the
truth of the phenomena of spiritualism.
A SPIRITUALISTIC "COMMUNION CUP"
Then "Patsy" came over to me, and in that high-pitched,
boyish voice, familiar to every one who has ever sat with
Frank Decker, he said "Doctor, I'm going to give you a
thrill tonight —something you've never seen before."
I said, "What is
it,
Patsy?"
He answered "Just sit tight and you'll see."
I
"sat tight"
[65]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
—in fact we all did—and in about half a minute Patsy,
directly in front of me said, "Hold up your right hand."
I did. Then he said, "Now, put your first finger through
this ring." So saying, he slipped what seemed to be a large
jade ring over my finger, admonishing me, at the same time,
"not to spill it."
Of course, I couldn't imagine what the youngster was
up to, until he said "Now take a drink, and pass it to your
secretary."
I asked "What is
it,
Patsy?" To which he immediately
responded, "Just water, did you think
it
was beer?"
I
drank and passed it on, as directed. He then
in
structed Miss Darwin to pass the glass fruit cup (as
it
turned out later to be) to the gentleman sitting next to her,
and so on until the cup had been emptied..
Taking the cup from the hand of the one who had stated
that
it
was empty, Patsy absented himself for
a
moment,
returning with
a
full cup. And so, every member of the
circle—except Decker, who remained entranced, breathing
stertorously the entire time, drank from the spiritualistic
"communion cup."
I
then asked Patsy
if
he had an apport for us,
in
this cup
of water, which
I
am positive was not
in
the room when
we began the seance.
He said "No
I
I
just pushed the door open, went out in
the bath room, turned on the faucet, filled the cup, and
brought
it
in." All this in the most matter of fact way
possible.
This was one of the finest and most convincing examples
of telekinesis
I
have ever had the good fortune to experience.
Then Pasty said, "We've got something new to show
you. Now, just be quiet and sit perfectly still." We did
as directed, when Patsy said "Do you feel anything?"
[66]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
Feel anything? Well, I should say we did. For the
entire room, floors, the chairs in which we were sitting, and
we ourselves, vibrated, as though in a medical vibrating
machine.
I have never experienced any thing like this. Patsy said
"That's the new sensigol gas we are experimenting with.
We're going to do some great things with this, before long."
On leaving the seance, I asked Miss Darwin to write
out her impressions, being somewhat interested to know
what effect, if any, these demonstrations would have on the
mind of a highly intelligent young girl, who was just about
as materialistic as I was at her age.
Here is the report she placed on my desk the following
day. I believe it's a splendid, honest statement, and leads
me to hope that there may be a future for spiritualism,
after all, no matter how far removed this seems to be at
the present time.
I'M CONVERTED
By Elizabeth B. Darwin
I attended my first spiritualistic seance last Thursday
night. Frank Decker was the medium. What I heard and
what I experienced that night were as unique and revo
lutionary to me as though I had been translated into a new
world. In fact, even now, so deeply rutted are our old
conceptions, that I can hardly believe the evidence of my own
senses. I now can understand the psychology of Hamlet,
who, in his soliloquy, after he had seen and talked with the
ghost of his father, still said "that bourne from which no
traveler returns."
Until Thursday I was an agnostic. I believed that God
was a myth, employed for the purpose of explaining natural
phenomena. I thought that the belief in a life continuous
[67]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
after death was a fantastic dream. I felt that we made our
own heaven and hell here on earth, and that, when we died,
we ended that "strange, eventful history" we call "life."
And yet, in a bare, closed room, with eleven other
people—some of whom were as skeptical as myself, but all
of whom were honestly seeking light—in a darkness which
no human eye could pierce, I heard trumpets clattering and
banging all over the room, thrown to the floor or raised
to the ceiling, at the will of unseen intelligences. I heard
voices of different kinds address various of the sitters, and
discuss with them topics of profound mutual interest. I
held an astoundingly interesting conversation with my own
grandfather, who recalled almost forgotten incidents of my
childhood, and spoke touchingly of the little rag doll he had
made for me many years ago. This, to me, was convincing
evidence of identity.
Then I heard three different entities speaking, all at the
same time, to three different people in different parts of
the room —one of them using the German language. I felt
my hands taken into warm, soft hands of a little boy who
called himself "Patsy," who led me from my chair to the
chair occupied by the medium. I sat on the medium's lap,
my feet on his, his hands lying relaxed along the arms of
the chair, just touching my elbows. My hands were clasped
in the soft palms of "Patsy," who bumped his chin softly
against my head. During this time every member of the
circle sat holding the hands of the ones seated at his right
and left, accounting for the presence of each member of
the circle.
I joined in the singing, led by discarnate intelligences.
I talked with these intelligences and discussed the phenomena
they were producing, as I used to discuss a problem in
chemistry with my science teacher.
[68]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
I held up my right or my left hand, as I myself elected,
and extending one or more fingers of either hand was in
formed by "Patsy" correctly, and without a moment's hesi
tation, just which hand I was raising, and just which finger
or fingers I was extending—all this in a Stygian blackness.
I drank water from a cup presented to us by Mr.
Decker's little guide, which cup and water he must have
procured, as he claimed he did, from the adjoining room.
I stood, almost on tiptoe, and felt my right hand carried
to the top of the head of the tallest man I have ever met —
outside of a circus. I felt the solid head of this giant man
and the coarse hair that covered his head. I felt the entire
room vibrate as though it were being shaken by a giant
dynamo, under the influence of some force which, "Patsy"
said, was "censigol gas."
I felt the bracelets being removed from my wrists by
soft hands, and was informed that the ornaments had been
placed on the right wrist of a lady on the opposite side of
the room —from whom I recovered them after the seance.
I know that other objects—stickpins, watches, etc., were
taken in a similar manner from other sitters at the seance,
and placed in the hands of people in remote parts of the
circle.
I heard a profoundly scientific little dissertation on a
new phase of physics which was being worked out by "Dr.
Stoddard," one of Decker's familiars. I stood reverently,
and listened to an invocation in Arabic by the great Persian
Master, Abdul Baha, and felt his hand upon my head. I
bowed in awe and deep humility while I received his bless
ing, delivered this time in English. And I heard the ster
torous breathing of Frank Decker, lying back in his chair
in a deep trance, during all this time.
I am still amazed with the wonder of it all.
[69]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
HOW YOU CAN MAKE YOUR MOUTH ANY SIZE DESIRED
A short while ago Patsy gave us a variant of his har
monica demonstration. Mr. John O'Neill, Science Editor
of the New York Herald-Tribune, was present. He had
never before known that sound could be elicited from a
mouth organ while the little instrument was cupped tightly
in one's hand, and completely shielded from any contact
with a pair of lips and a respiratory apparatus capable of
blowing air through the "reeds" of the instrument.
Being naturally skeptical Mr. O'Neill asked Patsy if
he would be good enough to demonstrate this for him.
Patsy, who must have anticipated his wish by mind-reading
—frequently done by the controls at the Decker seances —
immediately handed O'Neill a harmonica, telling him at the
same time to put it in his coat pocket, but to keep his hand
tightly closed over
it,
which Mr. O'Neill did.
Within
a
few seconds we all heard the muted sounds
of this little instrument, while Mr. O'Neill informed the
circle of some twenty people that he could distinctly feel
a
warm breath on his hand.
Then Patsy said "Now, John, take the harmonica out of
your pocket and put
it
under your foot, so it'll be completely
covered. But don't step on
it
too hard and crush it."
Mr. O'Neill said "What are you going to do with it
now, Pat?"
Patsy replied, "I'm going to blow
in
it,
of course."
Hardly were the words "out of his mouth" when we all
heard the characteristic sounds of the harmonica —produced
by
the alterante blowing and sucking in of the air currents
—quite as distinctly as though any enthusiastic child —
interested
in
making the greatest possible amount of noise—
had exhaled and inhaled into the apertures of the instru
ment.
[70]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
I asked Patsy how this was done, and how he could
possibly blow the mouth-organ while it was under Mr.
O'Neill's foot.
Patsy replied in his characteristically off-hand manner:
"Oh, that's easy. Whenever you want to do this you merely
materialize a very small voice box, instead of a regular size
one. Then you can get right down under the shoe, and blow
the harmonica. Try it sometime, Doc."
Mr. O'Neill, I am sure, would be glad to verify the facts
concerning this very interesting demonstration, as will more
than a score of others —all of whom were sober at the time,
and infinitely more sane than are the legislators who pass
laws, making the practice of spiritualistic mediumship a
criminal offense, and the uninformed judges who enforce
these inquisitorial laws.
However, perhaps this harmonica jugglery and hypno-
tization is another little "trick" our magician friends might
like to practice. After which, they might be interested in
duplicating these feats under conditions identical with those
under which Patsy "performed."
Just at present, however, I am inclined to believe that,
no matter how much wind our prestidigitating friends may
utilize in ballyhooing their prowess, there would be no way
of directing this hot air so that it would vibrate the brass
reeds of a mouth organ, tightly held in one's hand, or in
a closed hand thrust into a coat pocket, or in the instrument
held firmly under one's foot.
MY SPIRIT BROTHER "SHOWS" ME HIS SCAR
While I have frequently spoken with my brother, Dr.
Adolph, who passed into spirit life some ten years ago ; and
while I have on one occasion embraced him in fully ma
terialized form and kissed him on the forehead, I had an
[71]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
additional demonstration from him, shortly after the Christ
mas holidays of 1934, which furnished a remarkable piece
of evidence respecting the survival of personality. And also
of the ability of the spirit to manifest in the identical phy
sical condition in which he "passed over."
On this particular evening Adolph appeared and in di
rect voice (speaking without the aid of the trumpet) an
nounced himself by name, as is the usual custom.
After I had greeted him, and enquired concerning the
progress of our father, mother and brother Otto, he said
"Stand up, Ted. I want to show you something."
I stood up as requested. He then took my right hand,
lifted
it,
and drew my fingers lightly across his forehead.
When
it
touched the left temple his fingers manipulated
mine, so that he was using only my right index finger—as
a
sort of pointer.
He moved this index finger back and forth three or four
times, pressing
it
firmly on the scalp, directly over the right
parietal bone.
I
was at
a
complete loss to understand the significance
of this action, until Adolph said, "Do you feel that scar,
Ted?" at the same time rubbing the tip of my finger into
what
I
distinctly felt to be
a
slight indentation
in
the scalp.
After
a
moment
I
responded "Yes
I
do, Adolph. But
what does
it
mean And what are you trying to show me?"
Adolph said "Do you remember when we played Wil
liam Tell—and what happened at this time?"
"Good Lord,"
I
exclaimed, "Of course
I
remember.
It
must have been forty-five years ago. You put an apple on
your head and
I
tried to shoot
it
off with an arrow.
I
came
within an ace of putting your eye out, old man. But now
I
remember distinctly, the barb did tear quite
a
gash
in
your
scalp. We had to call
in
old Dr. Hauser to sew
it
up."
[72]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
"Well, here it
is,
Ted.
I
just wanted to give you another
little piece of evidence —for your book."
Will some megalomaniac please perform this "trick"
or "illusion" for me, at the same time duplicating my
brother's voice, so that all
in
the room can hear our con
versation distinctly
?
And, while he
is
about
it,
he might as well persuade this
"illusion" to give us
a
few more personal details concerning
the boyhood exploits of my dear brother and myself. And
of our reckless deeds of derring-do, which helped turn poor
mother's hair gray prematurely.
WHEN SPIRITS MAKE PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
There
is
one piece of evidence, substantiating the truth
of psychic phenomena, the explanation of which,
I
feel sure,
will give even the most case-hardened and recalcitrant
skeptics
a
fairly severe pain
in
the neck. This
is
the record
ing of the voice of materialized spirits on phonograph
records, the reproduction of which may be preserved as long
as the records remain intact.
No twisting, turning, squirming, blustering or ridicule
can explain away the voices of those who were once humans,
but who are now spirits. Yet those voices are quite as
identifyable as
is
Franklin D. Roosevelt's or Eddie Cantor's.
This recording has been done at Frank Decker's seances,
as well as
in
the seances of many other "physical mediums."
The speech Bert Wells made, giving
a
little auto
biography of himself, and the singing of "Silver Threads
Among the Gold" by Patsy, are quite as coherent and under
standable as any speech that Mr. Roosevelt has ever made,
or any song that Eddie Cantor has ever sung.
This phase of physical mediumship,
in
my opinion, holds
rich promise of interest for scientists everywhere, who must
[73]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
shortly recognize the tremendous importance of this whole
subject.
THE GREATEST THRILL OF ALL
The greatest thrill, however, that I have ever exper
ienced during all my thirty-five years of "fussing around"
with psychic phenomena, occurred not long ago at one of Mr.
Decker's seances.
I was seated beside my brother, Charlie, when after an
hour or more of splendid and highly evidential messages, a
voice directly in front of us, shaking with emotion, spoke up,
"Charlie my bye. And Edvin!"
It was my mother's well-remembered voice, with its dear
Irish brogue, unchanged from the day she came over to this
country, until the day she died, nine years ago.
Mother never could learn to say "boy." And she always
did convert the "w" in "Edwin" into a "v."
After a few minutes of heartfelt and heartful greetings
and "God bless yous" —mother's voice being heard distinctly
by everyone in the room —my mother asked us both to stand
up.
Then, as naturally as though she were once more in the
flesh —she put one arm around my brother, the other around
me, and drew us close to her—telling us, brokenly and with
an almost ecstatic joy, of her love for us and of her great
happiness in being able thus to meet us again.
She begged us to "take care of each other," told us she
was helping us in every way she could, and bade us remember
that, in God's good time, we would all be together
once more.
Then she took Charlie's hand in hers and drew it over
her face. She then carried it to the top of her head and let
him feel the characteristic knot of soft, silky hair, arranged
in the old-fashioned way she always wore it.
[74]
PATSY DEVELOPS MARVELOUS HARMONICA TECHNIQUE
Charlie tells me that then she took his face between her
hands, drew it down to hers and kissed him on the forehead.
She did the same with me and then said "I must go now."
It was a pathetic parting. Yet it brought to us, and to
those who overheard it all, a glorious dominant of joy and
comfort. For we know this parting is only for a time. We
do not have to guess at it—or try to conjure up a faith in
things unseen and unproved. We know that there is no
heaven or hell—except as we ourselves make them. We
know that life is eternal.
And that, when our time comes to take the short step
across the border and into another phase of existence,
mother and the folks will be there with hands outstretched,
to guide us up the little hill into the heaven we have tried
to make for ourselves here. And which we will do our best
to perfect, when we have a better understanding of the laws
under which we must work.
176]
Chapter VII
THE SPIRIT WHO CALLED UP ON THE PHONE
ON
a night in March 1935, we had an experience which,
so far as I know, is unique in the history of psychic
annals. Nowhere, in all the literature, is there any account
of a similar case.
There is no possible way of explaining this amazing ex
perience—except to declare—with the usual sang froid of
those who disbelieve, detest or deny the phenomena of
spiritism and its implications, —that three people are de
liberate liars. Or that they are all suffering from identical
hallucinations —something entirely unknown in psychiatrical
symptomatology.
These three people are my wife, Mr. Joseph de Wyckoff
and myself, all of whom are honest, God-fearing people, who
never yet have cut a throat, scuttled a ship, or told a de
liberate lie—other than the "white lies" that grease the ways
of social intercourse, and without which human association
would be impossible.
Oh yes, two other participants in this demonstration I
nearly forgot: The telephone operator of the American
Telephone and Telegraph Company, who received the
strange call, and put it through. And who would probably
have been stupified with amazement or paralyzed with fear,
had she known the identity of the person whose call she
was putting through.
Also, the butler who answered the phone in Mr. de
Wyckoff's home in Ramsy, New Jersey, and who was
[76]
THE SPIRIT WHO CALLED UP ON THE PHONE
thunderstruck when de Wyckoff disclosed to him the next
day the identity of the party to whom he had been talking.
However, here is the plain, unvarnished tale, the ex
planation of which we would all be glad to hear, from any
of the millions who—either because of indifference, ignor
ance, or "economic determinism" —deny in toto the proven
facts of spiritistic phenomena.
On the night in question, at 2 :30 a.m. the phone bell
rang in our apartment at 552 Riverside Drive, New York
City. The phone is in the front room, which Mrs. Bowers
uses as a living room during the day time and a sleeping
room at night. I sleep in the back room of the apartment.
The bell continuing to ring, Mrs. Bowers arose from
her bed, threw on a dressing gown, stepped over to the
phone, lifted the receiver and spoke into the mouth-piece.
Immediately, and to her great astonishment, she heard
the salutation "Hello Ouise" ring over the wire, in the un
mistakable and unforgettable voice of Patsy, Frank Decker's
little familiar spirit.
I might say here that Patsy makes it his uniform prac
tice to address almost everybody who comes to Decker's
seances by their first name —whether they be millionaire
dowager, dignified corporation lawyer, captain of industry
or a little stenographer. Also, he has that photographic
memory for names and incidents that only the most pro
ficient of hotel clerks ever seem to acquire.
Mrs. Bowers, of course, has spoken with Patsy dozens
of times during the five or six years she has been inter
mittently attending Decker's seances. Therefore, after the
first surprise of hearing the boy talk over the phone she
thought no more of it than she would of hearing the voice
of any other dear friend who might call her up.
Patsy joked with her for a minute or two about the
[77]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"surprise party" he was giving. He also said "And can
you imagine, Ouise, the telephone girl, when I gave her your
number, called me "Ma'am." "Ain't that a joke?" And
he laughed that single explosive "har," familiar to every
one who has ever sat with Frank Decker.
Then he said, "Ouise, I want to talk with Doc."
Mrs. Bowers demurred, saying "Patsy, Doctor's asleep.
I don't want to wake him now. He may not be able to get
to sleep again without taking something. You know how
he is."
PATSY SAID "THIS IS IMPORTANT"
Patsy replied, "Yes, I know. But this is important. It's
something we want him to put in the book. You wake him
up and tell him Joe de Wyckoff is here and wants to talk
to him."
Mrs. Bowers then came back, woke me, and delivered
the message. I came in, picked up the receiver, and talked
with Patsy for a minute or so, telling him how glad I was
to greet him in this manner, and what a thrill it was to hear
his voice over the phone.
He then said "Wait a minute. I'll put Joe on and he'll
tell you all about it."
Within a few moments I heard Joe de Wyckoffs voice
over the wire. "I couldn't wait," he said, "to tell you of the
most phenomenal demonstration I have ever witnessed in
all my life. I am so thrilled I can hardly speak."
De Wyckoff then went on to state that he had gone to
Decker's apartment for a little visit. The time passed so
quickly that he didn't realize it was so late. So he decided
to remain in town over night and sleep in Decker's studio
bed, while Decker occupied his own in the adjoining room.
About midnight he retired. Shortly after one o'clock
de Wyckoff was awakened from a deep sleep. Someone
[78]
THE SPIRIT WHO CALLED UP ON THE PHONE
was shaking him by the shoulder. With a start he looked
up, and in the fairly bright light that came from an arc
lamp outside—slightly below the level of the window—he
saw a white shape. It seemed to be dressed in some sort
of messenger boy's trim-fitting uniform. On its head was
a white cap.
For an indefinite moment de Wyckoff was startled. Then
he heard the familiar voice of Patsy saying, as though in
reproach, "You're not afraid of me, are you, Joe?"
De Wyckoff reassured the spirit immediately: "Why,
Patsy, my dear boy, how could I ever be afraid of you?"
Patsy seemed pleased with this assurance. Then he said,
"We've got Frank in a great condition tonight. And we're
going to show you some things you never saw before. Now,
you close all the windows so you don't catch cold. Pull
down the shades in Frank's room and shut out as much
light as you can. Then put on your robe and sit up in bed,
and you'll see something." And with this he moved swiftly
across the floor and disappeared into Decker's room.
De Wyckoff did everything as instructed, noting also,
while in Decker's room, that the medium was in a profound
trance, and breathing stertorously.
PAVLOVA DANCES FOR A ONE MAN AUDIENCE
Presently from Decker's room —which the medium's
guides were evidently using as a "cabinet" in which to gather
and consolidate Decker's teleplasm, and mix it with the cen-
sigol gas, described elsewhere—a female form floated out.
Patsy's voice called out "It's Madam Pav-a-lo-va, Joe,"
accenting each syllable —and adding an extra one, for good
measure. "She wants you to sing some Russian song, and
she'll dance for you."
[79]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
De Wyckoff, who speaks most of the languages of
Europe, began a little Russian song, used as a dancing tune
by the peasants in the Ukraine.
Immediately, the fascinatingly graceful figure of Pavlova
began to swirl and pirouette around the room, swinging a
drapery which, at first, de Wyckoff thought was one of the
sheets from Decker's bed. (Afterwards, however, he found
that the bed had not been disturbed in the slightest).
The swirling draperies prevented de Wyckoff from see
ing the face, which was evidently not fully materialized.
The swift turning of the figure in the dance did disclose,
however, the beautifully-formed limbs and feet of the
dancer whom de Wyckoff had seen a score of times, in
various capitals of the world.
To de Wyckoff it was as though Terpsichore, herself,
had come back to earth to dislose to one man, at least, the
beauty of the dance that achieved its highest development
in ancient Greece.
After Pavlova had pirouetted back into Decker's room,
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, whom de Wyckoff had met several
times, both in London and in New York, came over and
spoke with him.
After Conan Doyle came Pythagoras, ancient Greek
philosopher, and a frequent "visitor" at Decker's seances,
Bert Wells, Jim Reilly, Dr. Stoddard and a number of
others.
Then Lucille Weston, who in life had been a concert
singer, "came through" and sang "Annie Laurie" in a beau
tifully modulated voice, distinctly recognizable to de
Wyckoff as the voice of his old friend.
Finally, Patsy came over to the studio bed and said,
"Joe, come on over here and sit on this couch, near the
phone. I want to phone your wife."
[80]
THE SPIRIT WHO CALLED UP ON THE PHONE
De Wyckoff said "I don't believe she's home, Patsy.
She went out to a bridge party this evening."
Patsy replied, "Well, we'll try, anyhow. It'll be good
practice."
Then, to de Wyckoff's astonishment, de Wyckoff saw
Patsy lift the receiver and heard him distinctly call the de
Wyckoff home number in Ramsy, New Jersey. After wait
ing a minute, de Wyckoff heard his butler's voice answer
the call. Patsy asked if Mrs. de Wyckoff was in. The
butler answered that she had not yet come in.
Patsy put up the receiver and seemed to be thinking for
a moment. Then with a note of real delight in his voice he
said "I know: We'll call Doc Bowers."
De Wyckoff said "Do you know his number, Patsy?"
Patsy replied, "Sure I know it."
Again de Wyckoff saw Patsy lift the receiver from the
hook, place it to his ear and talk into the mouthpiece. He
heard the voice of the operator answering the call, on which
Patsy half turned and said to de Wyckoff, "She called me
'ma'am,'
" a belittlement of his masculinity which he seemed
to resent just a bit, at the time.
The operator plugged in on our phone, Mrs. Bowers
answered, and you know the rest. It was altogether a
beautiful and inspiring experience.
Mrs. Bowers informs me that she has heard Patsy's
voice over the phone once before. But this was over the
shoulder of Mr. Decker, who was making the call and who,
of course, handled the receiver himself.
However, the demonstration above narrated, constitutes
a definite experience in materialization, independent voice
and telekinesis. I wish it were possible for everyone in the
world to have a similar experience.
[81]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
MR. DE WYCKOFF RECEIVES AN APPORT FROM
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
Some little time before this incident Mr. de Wyckoff
was handed an apport by the materialized spirit of his old
friend, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Frank Decker was entranced when Sir Arthur came
through and conversed for a minute or more with Mr. de
Wyckoff. The subject of apports happened to be touched
on in the discussion between these two able research workers
—living in different dimensions.
Finally Sir Arthur said "Wait a while, I'll be back with
an apport for you, de Wyckoff."
After a few minutes Sir Arthur came through again,
spoke to de Wyckoff, and then slipped a little object —about
three-eighths of an inch wide and a half inch long —into
his hand.
"It's from my Egyptian collection in London," Sir
Arthur said. "You keep it." And he was gone.
When the lights were turned on de Wyckoff saw that the
object brought to him by the materialized spirit of Sir
Arthur was an Egyptian scarab, beautifully fashioned, and
evidently used as a seal on a ring.
Mr. de Wyckoff took the scarab to Dr. Andrews, of
the American Museum of Natural History, for classifica
tion, where Dr. Andrews' expert on Egyptology pro
nounced the scarab an authentic masterpiece of ancient
Egyptian origin.
I have seen the scarab, which seems as beautifully and
delicately executed as though Cellini, or some old Chinese
master artificer, had carved it out of jade or old ivory.
The envelope in which Mr. de Wyckoff carries the relic,
obtained in this strange manner, is inscribed "Souvenir
Talisman. To be carried by one on journey.
[82]
THE SPIRIT WHO CALLED UP ON THE PHONE
"Egyptian scarab, brought as an apport from his Egyp
tian collection, and placed in my hand by my developed
friend, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, at a sitting with Frank
Decker in the class room of "Bureau for Psychical Science
and Demonstration of Psychic Phenomena," July 19, 1932;
at 1 1
:30 p.m.
"Sir Arthur's hand was perfectly materialized —his voice
was as resonant as it was in his life on earth.
The American Museum pronounced the scarab to be
about three thousand years old."
How will the spirit-baiters explain this?
[83]
Chapter Fill
A SCIENTIST CONFIRMS REPORTS OF
FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
Throughout
these pages I have had frequent occasion
to refer to the striking phenomena produced by Frank
Decker, under conditions of strictest control.
So remarkable are many of these phenomena that ac
counts of them are regarded by the great majority of people
as Miienchausen yarns. And this, notwithstanding the fact
that I could produce several hundred people who have wit
nessed them and who would be only too happy to confirm
what I have here stated.
The clear-headed and sober-minded skeptic is usually
inclined to dismiss any recital of my personal experiences
in Decker's and other seances as the babblings of one af
flicted with senile dementia, or as ravings characteristically
noted in alcoholic delirium.
So radically opposed to all ordinary experiences are these
unvarnished accounts that the saner-than-thou unbelievers
feel themselves justified in assuring themselves that I am
either a knave or fool.
Or else that I, and the two million or more people in this
country alone who believe as I do are credulous dupes, suf
fering from hallucinations, or laboring under the influence
of auto-suggestion.
It is for this reason that I should like to present, at this
time, evidence confirming what I have stated and restated
in these pages. This evidence consists of three reports of
phenomena produced by Frank Decker, written by John
[84]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
O'Neill, now science editor of the New York Herald-
Tribune.
It is Mr. O'Neill's "job" to write authoritatively of
scientific matters, and to state facts in his wide field—clearly,
carefully and in a manner calculated to inspire "reader
interest."
I have known O'Neill for many years, and consider him
unusually well qualified in all matters concerning science and
research. However, his reports, first printed in the Brook
lyn Daily Eagle, and subsequently reprinted or referred to
by papers in every part of the English-speaking world would
indicate that my good friend is suffering from the same form
of dementia as afflicted his confrere, the late Dr. Pupin, Pro
fessor of Physics at Columbia; Sir Oliver Lodge, who is also
a professor of physics, and hundreds of other men whose
training qualifies them for authoritative statement on scien
tific matters generally.
And, may I add right here that psychic research and the
evaluation of psychic phenomena are highly specialized
branches of science, regardless of what the uninformed or
prejudiced multitude may think of the subject. Here is the
evidence of Mr. O'Neill. Am I more gullible or credulous
than he is?
SCIENCE EDITOR "TAKEN FOR A WALK"
—BY GHOST
Led Through Stygian Darkness and Guided by
Enormous Hands, Writer Touched and Accounts
for All Persons in Room Except "It"
By John J. O'Neill
{Science Editor of "The Brooklyn Eagle")
I took a walk in the dark with a ghost. It was a real,
honest-to-goodness ghost — one that materialized out of
[85]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
something less than thin air and went back into the same
nothingness. But while he was materialized he had hands
so big that if they were rolled into fists they would strike
terror to the heart of a Sharkey or a Schmeling —except that
they didn't have any bones in them.
In spite of their bonlessness they had a firmness that
enabled the ghost to manipulate the fingers with as much
control as I have over my own, and there was a suppleness
to them as of sponge rubber.
WRITER WAS TOO CRITICAL
I received this demonstration because I exhibited what
was, from the ghostly point of view, too much scientific cau
tion. I was too critical, perhaps, in some of my spoken
observations and too willing to offer purely physical possible
explanations of seance incidents. I was critical of the
"spirits" for not having developed their technique sufficiently
to produce phenomena in a lighted room. I was critical of
what the other sitters described as a cool breeze.
I maintained that it was not a breeze at all that they
felt, but a lowering of the temperature of their bodies at the
point where they felt a breeze, this lowering of the tem
perature to be accounted for by the conduction of heat away
from these parts of the body by some means which I could
not explain, but it was not a breeze.
BUT IT CANNOT BE EXPLAINED
Finally the ghost offered to show me something which
I might care to explain. I will be frank to state that I am
unable to explain it on the basis of any known facts, rules,
principles or procedure known to physics, mechanics, optics,
physiology or related sciences.
[86]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
"Stand up and turn around, Mr. O'Neill," said the ghost.
I did.
"Don't be afraid. You will not be harmed in any way,"
continued the voice, "But there is one promise I want you
to make. I want you promise not to try to grab me. You
will not harm me by doing so. There is nothing you can do
to harm me, but if you do try it you may injure the medium."
I gave my promise without reservations of any kind.
"You know how many people are in this room, Mr.
O'Neill?"
"Yes. There are 12 human beings in the room," I
replied.
"I will take hold of you and lead you around the room
and we'll count them. Don't be afraid now."
, A SEVEN FOOT GHOST
Two enormous hands grasped my arms from behind
and I then understood the reason for the warnings against
being afraid. I never before saw such big hands as I now
felt wrapped around my arms and moving me gently but
firmly forward. If the owner were built in proportion he
would be seven feet tall and mighty husky. I felt that he
was towering over me by about two feet.
They were peculiar hands. I could feel the grip of the
thumb and each of the fingers. Each finger seemed to be
an inch and a half in diameter. The whole did not feel
like a smaller human hand encased in a covering.
FELT EVERY PERSON IN THE ROOM
I stepped forward with an assurance that surprised me
and was turned to a halt in front of one of the sitters. My
arms were moved forward and my hands rested on a per
son's head. The person spoke and I recognized him or her.
[87]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
The process was repeated for each person in the room. I
could not see the faintest outline in the pitch darkness, yet
I unerringly stopped in front of each sitter and placed my
hands accurately on each head—my movements controlled,
of course, by the ghost. I was finally placed in front of the
medium and the ghost placed my hands on his head and his
shoulders, his body, his knees. The medium spoke and I
identified him.
The medium was Frank Decker.
"He wants you to make a full examination of me so you
can be sure that it is the ghost who is doing this and I have
nothing to do with it," said Decker.
CONVINCED IT WAS NOT DECKER
"Well, I've got hold of your arms, Decker, and I'm
stepping on your feet, while the ghost has hold of me from
behind, so I'm convinced you are not doing it," I replied.
"That is all," said the ghost. "You may go to your
seat, Mr. O'Neill." He released his grip and I stood alone
before the medium.
"Thank you. That was very interesting," I said to my
ghost escort. "I can find my way to my seat very easily.
I know just where it is."
I felt sure that with my sense of direction and a bit of
dead reckoning I could cover the distance quite accurately.
But I spoke prematurely.
LOST SENSE OF DIRECTION
I had hardly gone three steps before I fell over a sitter.
When the person identified himself I discovered that I had
started out in the wrong direction. I made the necessary
corrections in my calculations and started out again. Again
I stumbled. Offers of assistance were spoken, but I urged
[88]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
no one to tell me where my chair was, as I wished to find it
myself. A few more attempts and as many failures and I
was willing to admit that if the persons who had sat on
either side of me would speak perhaps it would save time
for all concerned. Even then I found the extended hands
of my neighbors more helpful than any sense of direction
gained from the sound of their voices.
TRICKERY INADEQUATE
Up to that time I hadn't given the ghost the credit he
was entitled to for the accuracy with which he led me around
that room. That ghost could see in the dark, or he had
some other sense than that which we use for seeing. The
explanation which involves trickery I dismissed as totally
inadequate.
Even tricksters cannot see in the dark, or if they can they
are using in their trickery a faculty or a power that is worthy
of far more sincere and useful application.
If a power akin to human vision is used by the ghost,
then the ghostly eye, or whatever takes its place, must be
capable of seeing radiations that are not visible to human
eyes, and such radiation must be issuing from the human
body. I am not stating proven facts, but discussing logical
conclusions from what, as a scientist, I must consider limited
observations.
MORE EVIDENCE NECESSARY
As to the "materialism" of the ghost, much more evi
dence is necessary before any discussion, other than a mere
report of what occurred, can take place. I am inclined to
think that a thorough-going scientific investigation might
bring to light some interesting and useful results.
Many more incidents took place, including, I might men
[89]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
tion, the repitition by the ghost of a whispered conversation
I had with Joseph Dunninger, the magician, in a hotel
several months ago. The incidents mentioned, however, are
sufficient to give an indication of the nature of the others.
The ghost identified himself as Bert Wells. His
mother was in the room. She told me her son died several
years ago at the age of 35, and that he was the physically
big man that I described the ghost as being.
* * * * *
A few months later Mr. O'Neill reported another in
teresting experience, much more wonderful than his first.
Here is the account.
EAGLE SCIENCE EDITOR LEVITATED BY
GHOSTS THAT SEE IN THE DARK
Observer is Lifted Toward Ceiling After Making
Test of Ability of Spooks to Touch Him Twice
in Same Spot in Inky Black Room
By John J. O'Neill
{Science Editor of the "Brooklyn Eagle")
This time I was levitated by a ghost—lifted half way
toward the ceiling and suddenly released. Two ghosts par
ticipated in the performance, but only one did the lifting.
A few months ago I reported an experience in which I
was led through quite a complicated performance in a dark
ened room by ghostly hands. That was the ghost's response
to my critical observations. I was asked to explain how it
was done. I couldn't.
This time my criticism was anticipated. I had merely
asked for an exact repetition of a piece of phenomena. The
[90]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
repetition was given. Then as a bit of additional evidence
I was led from my chair and with little ceremony lifted from
the floor.
The first bit of phenomenon took place within two min
utes after the dozen persons present had recited in unison
the Lord's Prayer and sung a hymn. Then followed the
silence of the tomb. Suddenly, out of the silence and inky
darkness, water was sprinkled on my face. In quick suc
cession others reported the same experience.
When the sitters announced that they had been sprinkled
with water a voice that appeared to come from the center
of the circle and somewhat above the level of the heads of
the sitters announced : "I did that. Don't be afraid. This
is Patsy."
I don't know what Patsy
is,
in
a
physical way, but
I
have
conversed with him on numerous occasions and have felt his
hands just as frequently. He
is
a
good-natured personality,
with
a
keen sense of humor and satire.
SKEPTIC TAPPED
Two trumpets began to move around the room. Per
sons reported that they were touched by the trumpets. One
rather skeptical individual reported that he was struck on
the knees with
a
steady tattoo on trumpet taps. His knees
were struck alternately with
a
steady rhythm of taps, nearly
two dozen taps being counted. The aim was perfect, he
reported.
A steady banter was kept up between Patsy and the
sitters, the ready wit of the voice being equal to the sallies
of the sitters.
A small hand pressed itself against the side of my face.
It
was the small, chubby hand of
a
child and felt not at all
[91]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
unpleasant. It remained against my face for about five
seconds.
"Do you feel that, John?" asked the voice.
"I do, Patsy. Is that you touching me?" I said.
"Yes, that's me," said the voice, rather dryly, and the
hand left my face.
"Could you touch me again in exactly the same place,
Patsy?" I asked.
"Sure I am," said Patsy.
"Will you prove it by doing so?"
LITTLE DIFFERENCE NOTED
Hardly had I asked the question when the hand was
returned to my face. A quarter of an inch would account
for the difference in the positions of the fingers and the palm,
in the first contact and the second. It remained in contact
for several seconds.
The room was in total darkness. A single contact in
the dark might be accounted for in several ways, but a
second touch in exactly the same place makes it a phe
nomenon very difficult to explain. It requires powers of
vision not possessed by at least seven of the persons in the
room who were later led partly around the circle by ghostly
hands and were unable to find their way back to their chairs
unaided.
NECKLACE REMOVED
The next bit of phenomena was the removal by Patsy
of a necklace from the neck of one of the women present,
transporting it across the room and placing it in the hands
of an artist who was among the sitters. The clasp of the
necklace was very small and it required careful handling to
open
it,
even
in
the light.
[92]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
Patsy returned to me. His chubby little hand took hold
of my left hand and raised it and another small hand took
hold of my right hand in the same way. There was no
fumbling around to find my hands. I was gently pulled up
to a standing position.
"I'm going to show you something, John," said the voice.
"Going to take me for a walk, Patsy?"
"We are going to levitate you."
LARGER HANDS AID
A larger pair of hands took hold of me from behind
while the small chubby hands of Patsy held my hands in
front.
"How many hands have you got, Patsy?" I asked.
"This is Bert Wells. I am going to levitate you alone,"
said the voice in back of my head and Patsy let go of my
hands as the other ghost took a firmer grip. The hands of
the ghost in back of me were quite large and I could feel
the manipulation of the fingers quite plainly as they wrapped
themselves around my arms, under the armpits.
When the lifting pressure was applied I stood erect and
held my full weight to the floor. My weight is only about
130 pounds and I was quite willing to let my friend the
ghost have the full benefit of every ounce of it.
TILTED BACKWARD
I found myself tilted backward over something which,
judging from the position of the hands that held me, should
be the torso of the ghost—that is if ghosts have the same
general anatomy as human beings. My weight was being
partly supported by the chest and abdomen of the ghost, or
what would be these portions of the anatomy of the ghost,
if ghosts had such.
[93]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
This ghost, however, had no chest, or at least no frame
of ribs. There were no bones in the ghost at all. All that
I could feel of him had the resilience of rubber, and yet
there was a rigidity that is not associated with rubber.
NO SHINS TO KICK
The ghost did not sag under my weight as my feet left
the floor. My feet dangled back where the feet of the ghost
ought to be if he were built along human lines in that por
tion of his structure. My heels should have kicked his shins,
but they could find no trace of shins to make contact with.
The ghost seemed to fade into nothingness at about the
point where the umbilicus ought to be.
I was not in this position many seconds. I felt myself
slid upward on the bosom of the ghost, who then straight
ened up and held me dangling in the air in front of him and
away from contact with him. A few seconds in this position
and I was lifted a couple of feet higher by the hands that
held me under the armpits and around the shoulder.
STRANGE EXPERIENCE
Being supported by the soft rubbery and boneless hands
that I could feel distinctly and by the equally rubbery and
resilient column that held me swaying in the air with an
ease from which all strain seemed to be lacking was a strange
new sensation for me. I was somewhat surprised to dis
cover that I was not frightened. I tried to see under me,
around me, and in back of me. It was pitch black. I could
see nothing.
"I am being levitated. I am up somewhere near the
ceiling," I announced when I was up there for a time that
I judge was about ten seconds.
[94]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
DROPS WITH A THUD
As soon as I made that announcement I came down on
the floor with a thud. I judge I dropped about three feet.
I was surprised at the manner in which I was released. The
hands did not accompany me on my downward trip. They
just disappeared like a flash and I was free to obey the laws
of gravitation, which I did promptly.
On regaining my seat I found a hand thrust into mine.
It was a very human hand of flesh and bones. I asked whose
hand it was and the woman next to me said it was her hand,
but that Patsy was holding it there. "She can tell you why
it is there," said Patsy. "What do you want me to do with
it?" I asked. "Use your own judgment," he replied.
WOMAN'S HAND HELD BACK
The woman then explained that when I was being levi
tated she tried to reach out and touch the ghost, but that
she hardly extended her hand when Patsy took hold of it
and held it until the phenomenon was over.
"What kind of eyes have you that you can see so well
in the dark, Patsy?" I asked. "Cat's eyes," he shot back
with a laugh.
Seven of the sitters were in turn led partly around the
circle directed by the hands of the ghostly guides. One of
them was stopped in front of the medium and caused to slap
Decker on the head as evidence that the medium was in his
place and not taking part in the march.
HIS MESSAGE FOR PATSY
Before going to the seance I had written something on
a sheet of paper and sealed it in an envelope which I ad
dressed to Patsy, expecting that he would appear. I had
it in my pocket.
[95]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"I have something in my pocket for you, Patsy," I said.
"Stand up," he said, taking my hands and pulling me
out of the chair. "Which pocket?" he asked, digging his
hands into both my outside coat pockets. He reached into
them from behind, whereas an instant before he was in front
of me.
"You ought to know without asking me. It has your
name on
it,
and you should be able to read what
is
in
it
with
out opening the envelope. You have done
it
before,"
I
said.
HANDS FIND ENVELOPE
"Sure
I
have. But
I
can't do
it
tonight," said Patsy.
"You should be able to find
it,
at least,"
I
said. "It
is
in
my inside coat pocket."
Instantly
a
hand shot across my chest, reached inside
my coat with an aim that was perfect, and pulled out the
trunkful of papers that
I
carry in my inside pocket. The
pocket was completely cleaned out, faster than
I
have ever
been able to get the papers out myself.
I
returned to my
seat.
"Is
it
this smooth one?" asked Patsy.
"No, that
is
my commutation ticket
in
a
celluloid holder.
Don't lose that,"
I
warned.
TICKET LANDS IN LAP
It
came scaling across the room and landed
in
my lap.
It
was followed
by
the rest of the papers
in
a
short time
after Patsy announced he had found the long envelope but
couldn't read
it
tonight.
At the close of the seance
I
asked
a
man who was pres
ent, and who
is
quite
a
husky gentleman to lift me from
the floor so that
I
would have
a
standard of comparison
in
[96]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
mind against which I could co-ordinate my levitation ex
perience. My conclusion is that the levitation by the ghost
was not accomplished by any of the ordinary human methods
and there was not even a suggestion of anything mechanical
about the experience.
I cannot explain what happened at this seance on the
basis of any of the known physical laws. And I might
mention that knowledge of the physical laws and their ap
plication is the basis of my daily work, which keeps me in
constant touch with scientists and technicians in their labo
ratories and workshops, and occasionally with magicians.
I have attended many seances and at them apply the
lessons of caution common to both newspaper work and
scientific work. Scoffing at results does not explain them.
The phenomena observed are worthy of the highest type of
scientific research.
*****
At a later date Mr. O'Neill reported a "chemical dis
covery," made by an old alchemist, dead these two hundred
years. To my mind it is a fascinating experience, and points
the possibility of something I have long contended—that
is,
the cooperation of those on this side of the veil with those
on the other side, to the end that certain chemical formulae
might be elaborated, new inventions brought into the world,
improved methods of diagnosing and treating diseases de
veloped, the field of general knowledge extended, and
a
larger and more satisfactory existence made possible to us,
here on this earth plane.
However, here
is
Mr. O'Neill's interesting report on
Dr. Stoddard's discovery.
[97]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"SPIRIT" DEMONSTRATES "CHEMICAL'
DISCOVERY
"Dr. Wilbur Stoddard," Alchemist of 200 Years Ago,
Working Through Frank Decker, Medium, Produces
Illuminated Telepathic Image
By John J. O'Neill
Science Editor of The Brooklyn Eagle
A new "chemical" discovery has been made in the spirit
world. This discovery made possible the projection of a
telepathic image in brilliantly illuminated lines on a screen
that seemed to consist of nothing but a slice of black space.
This discovery was made, according to information
furnished by Dr. Wilbur Stoddard, an alchemist who lived
in England about 200 years ago, and who since leaving the
earth has continued to engage in scientific research work in
the spirit world.
According to this same information this "chemical" dis
covery was made possible by a previous "electrical" dis
covery by which psychic phenomena could be produced with
out drawing an excess amount of energy from the medium.
DECKER AS MEDIUM
The phenomena in which these "chemical and electrical
discoveries" were demonstrated took place with Frank
Decker as the medium.
During the seance the voice of an Indian who identified
himself as Red Fox came through. This voice came
through at previous seances and it was not hard to recognize.
I criticized Red Fox for failing to make good a promise he
made to me. He said Indians always keep their promises.
[98]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
I then expressed doubt that he was an Indian. The voice
then asked me if I remembered the promise made. I said
I did and was ready to tell all the people in the room about
it,
to let them know that the promise was not kept.
"Say nothing now. Me give you test tonight," said Red
Fox. He then directed that each person
in
the circle take
hold of the hands of the neighbors on either side and step
on each other's feet so that every one
in
the room would be
controlled. This was done.
Suddenly an outline picture of the head and shoulders
of an Indian
in
feather head-dress appeared in brilliant lines
of light
in
the middle of the room
a
couple of feet above
the level of our heads.
It
remained directly in front of me at
a
distance that
seemed to be five feet for about ten or fifteen seconds.
It
then started to turn, to face the other sitters
in
the circle. As
it
turned
it
curved, and for several secondsIwas able to see
one-half of
it
directly and the other half
by
reflection
in
a
large mirror at the end of the room. Finally
I saw the
whole image reversed
in
the mirror. The apparition then
disappeared, after being visible for about
a
minute.
IN BRILLIANT BLUE FLAME
The light
in
which the picture appeared was
a
brilliant
blue of considerable intensity.
I
have experimented with
a
great many luminescent compounds and substances that
fluoresce under ultra violet light and have never been able to
get effects as brilliant as the lights
in
this picture.
The closest approach to
it
was obtained in
a
university
laboratory
in
Manhattan when
a
fluorescence was obtained
in an ultra violet sensitive compound
by
means of
a
powerful
arc light, and then only when
it
was held close to the arc.
The picture
in
the seance was not produced
in
this way.
It
[99]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
is not easy to conceal the presence of an arc light, and it
would have been necessary to have it move around the room
in front of the picture.
The picture had the appearance of being painted in glow
ing pigments on a black cardboard. It would be difficult to
produce a black cardboard that would be totally invisible in
a bright light and the background upon which the picture
appeared was entirely invisible. Yet when the picture turned
around it could not be seen directly from the back as if the
medium upon which it appeared was completely opaque.
But the reflection from the front of it was seen in the mirror.
After the picture disappeared Red Fox asked me to tell
the whole story of his promise. What I told is substantially
as follows:
At a seance held at Lillydale in Western New York last
summer I asked Red Fox if he could materialize so I could
see what he looked like. He said a Mrs. Baxter in Lillydale,
a medium who paints under spirit control, would produce a
picture of him for me. Visiting Mrs. Baxter the next day
she showed me a drawing she had made under control that
morning. It was a crayon sketch of an Indian in full feather
head-dress, a sketch such as artists make on canvas before
applying paints. I had never received the finished picture.
The picture which appeared in the strange lines of light
was an exact duplicate of the picture which had been pro
duced on canvas by Mrs. Baxter eight months previously,
and 500 miles away.
I asked Red Fox how the picture was produced and he
said Dr. Stoddard had produced it with a new chemical in
vention that he had perfected since coming over into the
spirit world. I asked Red Fox if he would have Dr. Stod
dard come through as I would like to discuss the invention
with him. He said I would be able to talk to Dr. Stoddard
[100]
CONFIRMATION OF REPORTS OF FRANK DECKER'S MEDIUMSHIP
some time later, but the conversation would be through Red
Fox.
HAD APPEARED AT HOME, HE SAID
I recalled to Red Fox another promise he made to me—
that he would appear in my home, so I could be sure no
paraphernalia was used. He said he had been at my home
several times and that I knew he was there, but I was in too
active a condition. "You felt me when I was there," said
Red Fox. "Were you there last Tuesday night?" I asked.
"Me there. You feel me on your face and on your neck,"
he replied.
"What were you trying to do?" I asked him. "Me try
ing to get into your body," he replied.
"What did you intend to do after you got into my
body?" I asked.
"That's all tonight. Goodbye." And Red Fox was gone
without giving me an answer.
His statement was correct to the extent that on the night
mentioned I was suddenly awakened from a sleep into which
I was just sinking by the consciousness that something had
shaped itself to the contour of the side of my face and neck
and was pressing on that part of my anatomy. I made a
sudden grab for it. Something swished by my face. I
switched on the lights and examined the room closely. No
one could have gotten out of the room and there was no
sign of anything strange in the room.
Patsy came through after Red Fox left and I sought
more information from him about Dr. Stoddard's invention.
He confirmed the information that the "chemical" invention
was made possible by Dr. Stoddard's electrical invention by
means of which it was possible to get better phenomena with
out taking so much energy from the medium.
[101]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
OFFERS HELP
I told Patsy that Dr. Stoddard was passing up a good
opportunity in not letting me in on his problems, as I had a
great amount of information and facilities at my disposal
which could be used in connection with his efforts, and if we
worked together we could swap information that would be
of mutual help.
Patsy urged me to be patient, stating that I would receive
a great deal of information that would be helpful, but
I must not try to rush things. "Some time I will materialize
for you and then you will see what I look like. You will
see I have the map of Ireland all over my face," said Patsy.
*****
Mr. O'Neill's experience with "chemical discovery" con
vinces me, more than ever, that before long we shall be the
recipients of help from the other side, to a far greater degree
than we ever have before. Or that we would have ever
have thought possible.
[102]
Chapter IX
THE MAGICIAN WHO COULDN'T KEEP DECKER
LOCKED IN A MAIL SACK
I have always contended that if a thing is worth doing
it is worth doing well.
Therefore, I take great satisfaction in the performance
of one "trick" that would give all the magicians in the world
a terrible headache if only they were fully acquainted with
its details, or if they could have witnessed the chagrin and
discomfiture of one of their guild, sent up by the President
of the American Society of Magicians to prove Frank
Decker a clever trickster —the braying, haw-hawing account
of which proof would have made the front pages of every
newspaper in the United States.
However, Decker triumphed in this crucial test. Con
sequently the magician mentioned was, so to speak, roped,
hog-tied, branded and sent back to his masters—smarting
with the humiliation of defeat. So no mention of this really
important incident was ever made in any newspaper or
magazine with which this gullible and soft-headed writer is
familiar.
I am particularly reminded of this interesting episode
by a recent interview, published in the New York Evening
Journal, in which Joseph Dunninger, known to his thousands
of wild-eyed admirers as the "Wizard of the Bronx" (this
means where he lives, not what he drinks) tells a very goofy-
looking reporter :
"You have come for an interview, haven't you ?" he said.
[108]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"Yes," the reporter said. "You see, I—"
"I know all about that," Dunninger said with an im
patient wave of his hand. "Let's see, you wanted to talk
to me about—spiritualism?"
"Yes," faltered the visitor. "How did you—"
But Dunninger was already talking. He stroked the
head of his Persian cat, Mimi, as he talked, and the cat
looked up at her master.
"It's a fake," he said. "Spiritualism is a fake. There
is nothing supernatural about these things. Out of hundreds,
I have never seen one whose phenomena I could not
duplicate by trickery."
"It is easy, is it not, Mimi?" he said to the cat. "Any
child of three can do the same thing —after 30 years of
practice."
He chuckled.
"Sometimes they are clever, very clever, indeed," he
continued. "Frank Decker was one of the cleverest of them
all. But he was not clever enough for us, was he, Mimi?"
"We sat him in a box with only his head protruding—
we made him take off all his clothes. Still he managed to
produce ghosts. Trumpets that floated and weird voices
that came out of them."
All very weird—and exceedingly stupid. Especially
when the "Wizard of the Bronx" admits, in a newspaper
article, read by several hundred thousand people, "Still he
(Frank Decker) managed to produce his ghosts. Trumpets
that floated and weird voices that came out of them."
Which only goes to prove that even a magician can't
keep his foot out of his mouth always —and still babble the
childish nonsense that Dunninger is perennially spouting, in
his impotent attempts to prove all Spiritualist mediums
[104]
COULDN'T KEEP DECKER LOCKED IN A MAIL SACK
frauds and tricksters, and those who believe in the phi
losophy of Spiritism a pitiful rabble of gullibles.
A NEW TRICK FOR MAGICIANS TO TRY ON THEIR BAG-PIPES
However, here is a new one "that any child of three can
do—after thirty years of practice," as Dunninger tells us—
if this silly charter makes the slightest sense to anyone who
understands and uses English.
I quote the details verbatim from an article in the
Psychic World, written by my good friend, Mr. Joseph de
Wyckoff, a man who has spent forty odd years as an in
vestigator of psychic phenomena.
Mr. de Wyckoff was for many years president of the
Vanadium Corporation of America, and is known and re
spected among the greatest financiers and business executives
of America for his ability, sound judgment and shrewd com
mon sense. Not at all the kind of man likely to be duped
by a cheap trickster, or to become an hysterical subject of
hallucinations.
Joe de Wyckoff has traveled all over the world, search
ing for new mediums. It was he who introduced Harry
Price to Rudi Schneider.
After sitting with all kinds of mediums, Mr. de Wyckoff
believes that Frank Decker is the greatest of them all. "The
scientists can name any conditions," he said. "They can
put Decker in a steel cage. They can be with him in the
cage, and still the phenomena will occur.
"For years I have planned to bring home the truth of
psychic phenomena to the world of Science."
I state these few facts merely to establish a background
for a man who is unusually well equipped to evaluate the
work of a medium, and whose ability and honesty I regard
as absolutely unquestionable.
[105]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Here is de Wyckoff's account of an experience in which
he and twenty-three others participated —a memorandum
concerning which was signed by every sitter present, and
which de Wyckoff would be only too happy to show to any
honest skeptic, for critical verification.
MAGICIAN IS PERPLEXED
To the Editor,
The Psychic World Monthly:
Since the days of the late Harry Houdini many pro
fessional entertainers, known as conjurers, sleight-of-hand
artists, hypnotists, etc., in emulating their protagonist have
made individual and organized efforts to discredit Spirit
ualist Mediums and the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The usual procedure is to arrange a seance with a more
or less developed medium with the ostensible purpose of
"testing" under rigid control conditions the phenomena of
physical mediumship.
The writer has no quarrel with these gentlemen; they
are entitled to make every bona-fide investigation in the
field of objective psychic phenomena, or any other field for
that matter, but unfortunately experience has demonstrated
that the invariable verdict of the Magic fraternity with one
or two exceptions (Thurston and Will Goldston) has been
that, "No supernormal or occult forces are responsible for
anything that occurs at such seances." Moreover, the gen
tlemen of Magic announce with much gusto, after an experi
ment with some prominent medium, that they can duplicate
the phenomena of the seance room by normal means. Hence
the inference that mediumship is a sham and Spiritualist
mediums are impostors.
In this they are ably seconded by reporters whom they
invite to these "test" seances. The writer is free to say that
[106]
COULDN'T KEEP DECKER LOCKED IN A MAIL SACK
the average reporter is as innocent of knowledge of the
psychic as is a young schoolboy.
Be that as it may—an incident occurred on December
8th, 1932, in New York, worthy of publicity. It is sure to
cause important repercussion in Magicians' circles and, at
no distant day, in the world of Orthodox Science as well—
although no reporters were present. The incident is a
direct challange not only to the Magicians of the stage and
drawing room, but to men of Science and all those of higher
mentalities.
It occurred at the Bureau for Scientific Investigation
and Demonstration of Psychic Phenomena, New York
City. The Bureau enjoys the services of Mr. Frank Decker,
a medium of most extraordinary merit and in whose pre
sence all phenomena known to psychic students have been
repeatedly witnessed, except "Spirit Photography," for
which as yet he has not been tested. He is in deep trance
when the phenomena occur.
On the evening aforesaid a dapper stranger, unknown
to anyone of the twenty-three men and women present,
entered the seance room just prior to the commencement of
the sitting.
He signed the requisite card at the Secretary's desk in
the office, giving his name and address: M. Taylor, 1427
Broadway, New York City. He was well dressed and of
good appearance, and no one objected to his presence.
Just as Mr. Decker took his customary seat in the center
of the large seance room Mr. Taylor unwrapped a large
brand new U. S. Mail sack of regulation water-proof fabric,
some six feet long and wide enough to hold the medium's
body, and proposed to encase the medium into it.
When asked if some other more humane method of con
trol would not satisfy him, Mr. Taylor replied that he acted
[107]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
under instructions of the President of the American Society
of Magicians, and that as delegate and member of that
Society he was obliged to carry out his instructions. Also
stated that he himself was a sleight-of-hand artist.
Mr. Decker, after being searched by the Magician,
entered the sack. Mr. Taylor drew it up to the medium's
neck and all those present, including the writer, confidently
expected that the sack would thus be tightened around the
medium's neck and securely locked, leaving his head exposed
for breathing. But the delegate of the Magicians' Society
insisted that the medium's head must also go into the sack.
To the experienced students present this seemed like
wanton cruelty to Mr. Decker. A storm of protests at this
procedure was directed at Mr. Taylor. However Mr.
Decker calmly announced that "he was willing to undergo
any test involving his mediumship, if respiration within the
enclosed sack was at all possible." It appeared dubious —
but Mr. Taylor gave every assurance that there was no
danger in this respect. Accordingly Mr. Decker seated him
self, the sack was drawn up well over his head, the folds
adroitly gathered in above by the magician, an iron rod
some one-and-a-half inches in diameter and as long as the
width of the sack was dexterously passed through the brass-
lined holes at the top, a formidable Yale lock at each end
of the rod "clicked" ominously, and the audience stood
aghast. The magician produced a couple of private seals,
carefully sealed the locks where the key is inserted, and took
his seat.
His was the first inning —but it was also his last. The
lights were switched off. Harmony was restored by sing
ing. Almost immediately Patsy (one of the Spirit-Broad
casters) spoke to Mr. Taylor. "Mr. Mystery Man, if we
take the sack off Mr. Decker will you give us the sack?"
[108]
COULDN'T KEEP DECKER LOCKED IN A MAIL SACK
Mr. Taylor replied, "Certainly I will, with pleasure."
Patsy insisted, "Will you autograph it
"
Mr. Taylor answered, "I surely will."
The singing was resumed and within less than twenty
minutes the exultant voice of Patsy shouted, "Hurrah 1 The
sack is ours!" and the empty sack was deposited in the lap
of one of the sitters. The circle applauded, and very soon
phenomena occurred in abundance and great variety, Mr.
Decker still being in a trance, each sitter holding the next
sitter's hand—forming an unbroken circle. Telekinesis,
strong and loud voices, playing musical instruments, flashes
of brilliant lights on walls and ceiling, levitation of sitters,
including the Magician, and a marvelous exhibition of jug
gling a trumpet with luminous band at superhuman speed
all over the room. In all, some ten distinct personalities
manifested and spoke, some of them carrying on animated
conversation with the Magician.
When Mr. Decker came out of the trance about one-
and-a-half hours after the seance started and the lights were
again turned on, the mail sack was in the lap of a sitter, a
prominent member of the Bureau. Locks and seals were
intact, as vouched for by the Magician himself, with an
appropriate inscription over his signature upon the fabric
of the sack as demanded by one of the invisible operators,
(Patsy).
How was Mr. Decker liberated? Who liberated him?
Who was responsible for the other phenomena?
The liberation of the medium from the sack, locks and
seals remaining intact, with no signs of incision, is
unassailable !
Joseph de Wyckoff.
[109]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
The reader may be interested to know how Decker's
guides explain his "trick" in getting out of the bag. Ac
cording to Patsy and Bert Wells, Decker's guides merely
dematerialized the electronic constituents of the bag, then
rematerialized them—with Decker on the outside of the bag,
this time.
It's all very simple. Too bad some of the vociferous be-
rators of Spiritism and its phenomena—more particularly
gentlemen of the "pea-shell" and "egg-in-you-ear pro
clivities" —can't take a little time away from blowing ado
lescent puff-balls and duplicate, under identical conditions,
some of these phenomena we are describing in this book.
RIDDLE ME THIS
I should like to ask Mr. Arthur Brisbane, whom I re
gard as the greatest editorial writer in the world, and for
whose amazing grasp of general knowledge I have the pro-
foundest admiration, how he would explain Decker's release
from a closed, locked and doubly-sealed mail sack —assum
ing that Patsy's explanation of the method be rejected as
ridiculous and improbable.
In fact, it would be interesting to note what this giant
among writing and thinking men would have to say con
cerning any of the hundred or more equally remarkable
demonstrations I have mentioned in this book, apart from
dismissing the matter with a pooh-pooh of good natured
ridicule, or a sympathetic pat on the head for anyone so
lacking in good judgment and reasoning power as to accept
this balderdash as the truth.
Father Bernard Vaugn, the Rev. L. A. Ewart, and many
other fulminators against spiritism contend that, even grant
ing that there is any truth in psychic phenomena, intelligences
thus conjured up "are merely devils from hell," "satanic
[HO]
COULDN'T KEEP DECKER LOCKED IN A MAIL SACK
spirits," bent on wrecking the minds, morals and bodies of
their pitifully duped victims.
I should like to ask these babbling morons —ignorant of
even the rudiments of what is now a proven and accepted
philosophy —a philosophy upon which the very teachings of
their own church is based —what sort of "devils" and
"satanic spirits" are these who frequent seances such as I
have been describing in these pages.
And in which every seance is opened by the circle saying
the Lord's Prayer in unison, followed by the singing of one
or two hymns, in order to help bring about conditions in
which the spirits do their best work.
It is a mad world, my masters. But perhaps the mad
dest thing about it is the opposition and antagonism shown
toward a philosophy that would unquestionably develop
tolerance, harmony, and social, political and economic
justice among men.
For if spiritism were universally accepted the snarling,
selfish beast-man who now reddens the world with blood,
who starves innocent or ignorant millions, while a few
wallow in wealth, who is more cruel than the Hyrcan tiger,
guilty of a thousand henious crimes never even thought of
by a Tasmanian devil or a shark, would reform himself.
He would not dare pile a mountain of crimes upon
his twisted, shallow soul.
For spiritualism, with its absolute assurance of the im
placable rendering of after-death accounts; its definite
proofs that vicarious atonement is a lie—concocted for the
purpose of fattening the already fat paunch of the Church
—and that each of us, personally, must atone for wrongs
done on this plane of experience, would revolutionize
human relations.
It would furnish absolute proof that only by leading a
decent, humane, spiritual life can one hope for peace, pro
[101]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
gress and advancement in the next life—and in the what
ever other lives there are to come.
And, this would be a philosophy and a status well worth
working for.
[112]
Chapter X
"JIM" RILEY —
MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
I never met "Jim" Riley in the flesh, although I have
fraternized with him at least fifty different times since
he "passed over."
"Farmer Riley," as he was generally known, was one
of those unsung "high-lights" in spiritualism —as was my
dear friend, May Vanderbilt Pepper and Dr. Robert
Moore, greatest of all materializing mediums with whom
I have had personal contact.
For, strangely enough, none of these three highly-
developed mediums are mentioned in the splendid "History
of Spiritualism," by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, nor in any of
the very considerable number of books I have read on the
subject of psychic phenomena.
And by the way, this same lack of "historical" recog
nition applies also to Frank Decker, who has been in this
work since 1926, and who is regarded by many competent
students of psychics as the most gifted and most generally
dependable of all contemporary mediums.
Jim Riley is a personality —shrewd, witty, yet a pro
found student of spiritism and its phenomena. I recall a
number of little "talks" I have had with him concerning
"rappings," the moving of objects by means of ectoplasmic
rods, the spiritual evolution of criminals, degenerates and
defectives, and the function of "guides" in enlarging the
spiritual consciousness and psychic powers of those whom
the "higher forces" deem worthy of assistance.
[113]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
I recall one evening in which Jim discoursed with seem
ing authority respecting the possibility of utilizing the long
wave of the ultra-red ray in photographing spirits, ma
terialized in dark room seance. He suggested that sci
entists at the General Electric or the Westinghouse com
panies might be definitely interested in cooperating in these
experiments with a light-wave of relatively low vibrational
rate.
This, by the way, is only one of the many studies we
plan to undertake, as soon as the opportunity presents.
HOW RILEY DEVELOPED HIS AMAZING POWERS
As stated in another chapter, Riley and his wife sat
across the table from each other almost every night for
six months—with their hands outstretched and palms rest
ing on the table.
Then, one night, just as they were about to give up, the
table suddenly lurched sideways about two feet. Jim said
at once "If this is a spirit moving the table please move it
to the left."
As though executing a command the table moved ten
inches to the left. Then it began to quiver and vibrate,
moving a few inches backwards and forwards, like a restive
horse, champing at the bit and eager to be off.
Finally the table, in reply to various questions, took on
a freer and more spontaneous action. It twisted and turned
about in such a manner that the two sitters had to rise from
their chairs, and almost chase it around the room.
Mrs. Riley was then impressed to say, "If this is the
spirit of my brother Ezra, (he was killed in '64, in the
siege of Atlanta) will the table move back to the right?"
The table did as requested, after which it began to
respond to intelligent direction. For, after moving first to
one side and then to the other, it would rear up on two legs,
and remain in this position —without any steadying from
Riley or his wife, for minutes at a time.
[114]
"JIM" RILEY— MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
On being asked to bump the floor three times for
"yes" and once for "no" the table would rear up —resting
on two legs, until the letter E was reached by the sitters.
Then it would drop to all fours, after which it would raise
itself again, and remain in this position until the next letter
was reached, when it would again drop. In this way the
name "Ezra" was spelled out.
The first communication obtained in this manner con
sisted in the complete message "Dear sister, I come from
the banks of the Chattahoochee River to greet you."
After a while the table tamed itself, so to speak, and
no longer rose on its hind legs, to thump out messages.
However, raps came freely upon, under or even within the
wood forming the table top.
In this way, information was given to the Rileys and
to an excited and interesting group of neighbors. Start
ling predictions, subsequently fulfilled, were made. Past
happening and tragedies, hitherto unsuspected and un
discovered were revealed.
I mention these facts in some detail to those who might
feel that merely to develop "table tipping" and "raps" is
a species of child's play, and of little or no importance.
And also to emphasize the fact that, even though the
method is cumbersome and protracted, and might seem to
many a terrible waste of time, nevertheless some of the
finest evidential messages ever recorded have been received
in just this way.
In any event rest assured that these efforts frequently
develop something well worth while —messages that may
reward any amount of patience.
From table tipping the Rileys evolved to slate writing
—a much quicker and more satisfactory method of receiv
ing messages. The technique employed was to put a slate
and a stub of a slate pencil on the center of the table and
invert an earthen bowl over them.
Then the company would sit around the table, turn the
[116]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
lights low, place their hands on the table, and "raise the
vibrations" by singing hymns and other songs, (although
they knew nothing of the reason for this at the time).
riley's "control" takes charge
Finally, in 1887, a message appeared on the slate,
signed by "John Benton." It said "I am sent here to take
charge of the medium." No one knew who John Benton
was, or what his mission might be, therefore the slate-
writing continued as before.
Finally, another message came through from John Ben
ton. It said "I want my medium to sit for materialization."
The idea of becoming an unconscious instrument of phe
nomena which he could not himself witness and speculate
upon was repugnant to Riley. For hitherto he had been,
so to say, an eager participant in the demonstrations.
However, after making Benton, through slate-writing
communications, promise that he would assume personal
charge of the proceedings, Riley consented.
Thereupon, a small bed room, leading from the sitting
room was darkened. The windows were completely cov
ered, while two dark curtains, opening in the center, to
permit being thrown back readily, either from within or
without, were suspended over the entrance of the darkened
room, or "cabinet." The medium sat on a chair in the
"cabinet." The group sat in a semi-circle around the door
of the small room.
The lights in the sitting room were then dimmed, but
only to that degree that permitted the faces of all the sit
ters and the cabinet entrance to be clearly visible.
Afer the third Saturday night the curtains were vio
lently shaken. A materialized hand thrust itself through
the curtain openings and waved to the sitters in a sort of
greeting.
Following this preamble the materializing power grew,
week by week, until finally fully-formed, thoroughly ma
[116]
"JIM" RILEY— MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
terialized entities would come out into the room, walk
among the sitters, kiss their relatives, shake hands with
their friends and fraternize—in a regular old-home-week
manner.
Mr. Vlereborne, who wrote the fascinating biography
of "Farmer Jim," tells us that on one occasion he saw Mr.
Benton, Riley's control, pick up Riley's little girl, four
years old, and carry her around the room.
This parallels the amazing and delightfully tender ex
perience of Lady Crooks, wife of Sir William Crooks,
greatest among physicists of the last century.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle tells us this story of "Katie
King" a materialized spirit, built up, in part, from the
ectoplasm of Florence Cook, a medium.
Sir Arthur writes of her: "Her earth name had been
(Morgan and King was rather the general title of a certain
class of spirits than an ordinary name. Her life had been
spent two hundred years before, in the reign of Charles the
Second, in the island of Jamaica. Whether this be true or
not she undoubtedly conformed to the part, and her general
conversation was consistent with her account. One of the
daughters of Professor Crookes wrote to the author and
described her vivid recollection of tales of the Spanish
Main told by this kindly spirit to the children of the family.
She made herself beloved by all. Miss Crookes wrote:
"At a seance with Miss Cook in our own house, when
one of our sons was an infant of three weeks old, Katie
King, a materialized spirit, expressed the liveliest interest
in him, and asked to be allowed to see the baby. The
infant was accordingly brought into the seance room and
placed in the arms of Katie, who, after holding him in the
natural way for a short time, smilingly gave him back
again." ^
RILEY'S BIOGRAPHER ENTHUSES
Mr. Vlereborne informs us: "Those were the days
when Jim went into the cabinet, and was hardly seated
[117]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
before forms appeared, walked out among the audience,
shook hands and dematerialized there in the presence of
all without going back into the cabinet. Think of having
a being, apparently of flesh and blood, grasp you by the
hand with a grip that you will remember for days, look
you squarely and kindly in the eyes, and say "Good eve
ning, I am glad to see you," in a firm, resonant voice. Then
while you are actually shaking hands with this form he
dematerializes, gradually vanishes, leaving perhaps his
hand in yours, till the last moment. He has all gone but
his hand. You are looking at that, and are satisfied that
it is flesh and blood; the touch is warm, the veins are
marked, the skin soft and not clammy. While you are
noting these things, the hand itself is gone, and your fingers
clasp your own palm with nothing between.
"Think of thisl What does it mean to you? Where
does the form gather its material? Where does it get its
brain? Where does it get its voice? Think of itl Not
done in a corner, but in the presence of twenty or thirty
persons at a time; not done once, but done every night for
weeks and months and years; done so often that the tre
mendous significance of the much simpler phenomena which
I, myself, have witnessed at the Riley home, was unheeded
by those present in the circle."
Jim has insisted, on several occasions, when I discussed
with him the marvels of his mediumship, "You just wait,
Doctor. In two years this boy (referring to Frank Decker)
will do all the things I ever did—and more, too. For he is
protected by spirit guides who will see to it that he is never
molested, as I used to be at first."
WHEN MALIGNANT SPIRITS "ROUGH-HOUSE" A SEANCE
Jim refers here to the early days of his materializing
mediumship —before John Benton knew how to control the
invasion of malignant spirits —poltergeists, as the Germans
call them —and prevent them from harming his medium.
[118]
"JIM" RILEY— MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
Vlerebome gives us an account of one of these hair-
raising experiences. "Only once was one of these spirits
recognized by a member of the circle. They would come
right out in the circle, and take the slates in their hands
and break them in pieces over the stove. They would
shake their fists in Mrs. Riley's face, and when she went to
the curtain they would clutch at her, but never did her any
bodily harm. Before the circle had learned enough about
these manifestations to interpret the confusion of raps as
meaning that the bad spirits were in force, there would be
noises and "a racket" in the cabinet.
These spirits amused themselves by throwing things at
the medium. The pictures were stripped off the walls; the
water pitcher was on one occasion thrown through the cur
tain and broken in pieces; messages of a bloodthirsty sig
nificance were written on the slates, such as : "We will hurt
this man if you don't stop your sittings."
On one occasion Jim Riley was found, when the cur
tain was thrown back by Mrs. Riley, still unconscious, but
bleeding on the head from nine cuts, and other ridges or
lumps formed on his skull next day, which he supposes were
caused by the pounding of the slates on his skull before the
frames broke, the cuts being made later by the jagged
edges of the slates.
"It may be asked why John Benton, who was supposed
to have the management of these affairs, did not release
the medium from the influence, before the evil spirits got
control. Jim says, in explanation, that he did not think
John Benton knew how to exert his control when the evil
spirits came in force, but he accounts for the infrequent
manifestations of those spirits later on the ground that
John Benton had learned how to control them, and for the
past twelve years they have rarely made their appearance."
He continues: "These manifestations supply as good
an argument in favor of the spiritualistic doctrine being
[119]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
true as one could wish. We have heard more than enough
of the wearisome theory that all these manifestations are
properties of the subconscious intelligence of the medium.
Does the subconscious intelligence protect the interests and
life of the medium by hitting him over the head with the
jagged edge of a slate with such force that his head is cut
open in several places, and there are bumps on the skull
for a week afterwards."
OUR LITTLE TUSSLE IN A HAUNTED HOUSE
I must confess that I have never had any experience of
this nature in any seance I ever attended, although I have,
several times, had occasion to drive out by sheer force of
dominating will —and an astonishingly effective assortment
of curses —certain poltergeists who persisted in bedeviling
our domicile.
Also, my brother Adolph and I, many years ago, had
a really thrilling experience with a malicious, earth-bound
spirit, in a haunted house in which we had elected to spend
the night —and did.
I may say that our poor dog was nearly choked to death
by the malignant entity before we could rescue the animal —
which we did by employing physical force on the ma
terialized spirit, by shouts and commands, and by turning
a brilliant flash light directly upon him.
I know now that the disintegrating effects of the
spirit's personal contact with our lower vibration, plus the
"melting down" of his ectoplasmic body by the bright light,
caused his rapid disappearance.
However, Adolph and I knew nothing of these matters
at the time. As a consequence we were pretty badly
"scared," but not scared enough to run away, thank heaven.
Riley's experiences were, to my mind, the test of stam
ina and determination —on the part of both himself and
his courageous wife.
[120]
"JIM" RILEY— MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
Perhaps it may be apropos to say, at this time, that
John Benton has appeared recently in Frank Decker's de
veloping class, and announced to a certain lady present,
that he had been sent to act as guide. I understand
this lady shows great promise of sometime becoming a
medium of remarkable power.
Curiously enough the lady, while grateful for the honor
and the interest shown in her, had never before heard of
John Benton. I gave her a few details concerning the his
tory and qualifications of this great spirit, which, later in
the evening, were corroborated and amplified by Jim Riley
himself.
It will be interesting to watch the progress of this
woman from now on.
JIM'S PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE IN THE HEREAFTER
It may not be amiss to quote here a word or two con
cerning Jim's experiences in that dear life to come —the life
that only spiritists can know anything about, while on this
earth plane. And regarding which everyone else—whether
they be Catholic, Protestant, Jew, Buddhist, Mohammedan
or materialist, can only guess, dream, bluff, lie or bluster
about.
Here are a few fragments of Jim's clear-cut philosophy
concerning spiritual development.
"Death is just a change, a dropping away of the phy
sical body; we put it off, as we put off a suit of clothes.
Like the locust that crawls out of the ground; he sticks his
claws in the bark of a tree, crawls out of his shell, and
flies away—is born again.
"The spirit finds itself in a world where development
is as much expected of it as it is required on earth. Man
is a progressive creature; he never fails, he progresses here
as well as in the hereafter, a world where loving, both
towards other spirits and those remaining on earth is re
quired for the fulfilling of its destiny. In this new world
[121]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
which we on earth call 'heaven' the spirit is free to choose
its pursuits, but it is made plain to it that a life of self-
indulgent happiness is impossible to the spirit that seeks to
develop itself towards the highest good.
"There is always employment for all; there is abundant
happiness for all; there is immeasurable forgiveness —but
the forgiveness is not expressed in terms of speech. There
is no judge who condemns. Forgiveness of sins is shown
by fellowship with higher orders of spirits. When the
higher spirits seek the companionship of another spirit, it
means that the other has developed to a point at which he
has seen the folly or sin of which he has been guilty in the
past, and has made amends. He has made amends, this
new spirit, by suffering for the evil he has done; he has
sorrowed in spirit, in this new life
"There is no hell but that which lies within the spirit
itself. He has not made amends, or received forgiveness in
a moment, in a day, or two days. He has seen his guilt in
himself, and he has made amends by service to others.
Perhaps he has been sent on a long mission to earth, to
help some of those who are seeking comfort there. Per
haps he has been commissioned to attend some other guilty
soul on earth, and is winning happiness for himself by try
ing continually to impress higher aims, better thoughts upon
the minds of this depraved brother or sister. This is what
we mean by spirit service.
"I cannot better describe the absolute freedom of the
spirit world than by saying that heaven is a place where
there is no compulsion. It is left to the spirit to decide
whether he will shun evil and choose the good, making
amends for his former evil doings ; or whether he will con
tinue to follow evil. But in spite of this absolute freedom
of will, make no mistake upon one point. Happiness lies
intrinsically in the doing of good. The spirits who follow
evil are not punished as we understand punishment, but
[122]
"JIM" RILEY— MASTER MATERIALIZING MEDIUM
they are not happy. They seek fierce pleasure and find
it,
but they do not know happiness. They cannot know happi
ness or content until they have experienced remorse and
suffering.
"It
is
for the spirit to develop now
in
heaven, as Jesus,
his brother, developed on earth, through great love and
sacrifice, doing the will of God, the Father, with his face
set ever toward the sun of Goodness, which shineth ever
more and more unto the perfect day."
Can anyone overestimate the ignorance, bigotry and
narrow-mindedness, the inhumanity of those who revile,
despise and persecute the servitors who come, with hands
extended
in
welcome, inviting all to eat freely of the bread
of knowledge, brought from the only source qualified to
provide
it
—from those on the other side of the veil, and
living in that lifel
However, we must now leave my good friend Riley,
with
a
statement made by Mr. Vlerebome, who affirms "I
can safely say that of the thousands who have attended
Jim's sittings, not one would insinuate that he had ever
done
a
single fraudulent act; There has never been one
breath of suspicion against honest Jim."
Shakespeare said
it
perhaps more beautifully, but cer
tainly not less sincerely, when he made Anthony eulogize
the fallen Brutus thus:
"His life was gentle and the elements
So mixed in him that Nature might stand up
And say to all the world, This was
a
man."
If all who ever lived upon these banks and shoals of
Time could have heard over their out-lived clay what was
said of James Riley this blood-sucking, cannibalistic world
would be heaven indeed.
[123]
Chapter XI
DR. JOHN ^lYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
FOR
more that a score of years I have occasionally seen
"spirit extraa' —negatives which showed spirit heads
or bodies, in addition to the photograph of the person on
whom the camera was focused.
However, I was satisfied that these photographs were
not all they were purported toT>e7~-Eojr, at one time, I knew
the magician, Harry Keller/quite welt) And often I have
seen him do absolutely bewildering things.
Yet, after thinking it over and studying more care
fully the methods of medium control, I remembered that
Keller never caused a bird to disappear while the bird was
held in my hands. Nor levitated me out of one of those
cages he used so deftly.
And, by the same token, I would now bet the back of
my neck that neither Keller —nor any other magician —
could let me bring into his studio a package of photo
graphic plates, which / myself had selected —without giv
ing any hint as to were I intended to purchase them—open
the package, insert the plate in the camera, and finally put
the exposed plates into the fixing hypo for development.
And all this without permitting any person other than
myself, to touch the package, plate holder or exposed
plate.
The magicians would have absolutely nothing to do
with any phase of the operation, except to stand three feet
away from the camera and press the rubber bulb that flicked
the shutter open for the fraction of a second.
[124]
DOCTOR JOHN MYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
Spirit photographs developed by a magician in this man
ner would demonstrate a skill in legerdermain that would
be absolutely awe-inspiring.
Yet this is what Mrs. Deane —so highly spoken of by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle—and other "spirit extra" pho
tographers, have been doing successfully for years. And
what Dr. John Myers, of London, England, is now doing,
as a matter of almost daily routine.
THE OUTSTANDING SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE WORLD
I first heard of John Myers —an English dental surgeon
of unimpeachable standing —through Frank Decker. Frank,
with Joseph de Wyckoff, had gone to London, to appear
before what was purported to be a society for physical
research, representing the last word in scientific laboratory
equipment and intelligent control.
Decker and de Wyckoff, however, found that Harry
Price—the pooh-bah and generalissimo of the organization
—was the same vainglorious pain-in-the-neck to sincere, hon
est English mediums that Joseph Dunninger is to American
Spiritists.
This confirmed what my friends had already been told
by Maurice Barbanell. And so they would have nothing
to do with Price.
However, the journey overseas did not prove negative
of results. For it was on this trip that Decker and de
Wyckoff met Dr. John Myers —known the world over as the
most remarkable psychic of his kind.
Present at the first seance Decker and de Wyckoff at
tended was Maurice Barbanell, Hannen Swaffer — famous
dramatic critic and one of the best informed students of
psychic phenomena in England—and a score of other per
sons —university professors, an Indian potentate, lords and
ladies, and men and women far above the average in
intelligence and standing.
Decker, hardened by experience to believe strictest con
[125]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
trol of the medium the only condition under which psychic
phenomena should be tested out, brought with him a pack
age of photographic plates, which he bought at a chemist's
shop. He placed these in his left-hand coat pocket, never
removing his hand from the package until he, himself, had
placed one or two of the plates in the camera for exposure.
Dr. Myers stood three feet away from the tripod, and
consequently three feet away from Decker, at his nearest
approach. Myers' only function was to press the bulb, and
to act as the medium through whom these miracles of pho
tography are made possible.
After the plates were exposed, Decker took them into
the dark room, put them into the fixing hypo and developed
them himself. Following the developing bath Decker
placed the plates in their holders and remained with them
until they were dry.
When dried, one of the plates showed the round, boy
ish face of Patsy, smiling over Decker's shoulder. The
other showed "spirit extras" of people unknown to Decker.
The majority of those present followed a similar pro
cedure with the plates they had brought, and in most cases
were equally successful in finding that their plates, when
developed, showed the "extras" of relatives or friends,
long graduated from earth life. Or else the faces of some
guide or celebrity who had their interests at heart.
NO POSSIBLE WAV OF "FAKING" THESE
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS
There is no possible way which these "extras" could be
faked, even by the most adroit of prestidigitators—which
Dr. Myers assuredly is not.
For, even were we to assume that Myers could practice
mass hypnosis on all the sitters and telepathically suggest
to them that they thought they still retained their plates in
their hands, while in reality they had all exchanged their
plates for a package Myers had handed them—and nega
[126]
DOCTOR JOHN MYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
tives which Myers had developed —this would not account
for the faces or forms, photographed by the medium.
If the forms were conventional — cherubic Raphael
angels, or the average person's ghostly aunt, with long
loose draperies and a lack-luster expression of face—Myers
might perhaps be successful.
For we know that the East Indian fakirs do some very
remarkable things under mass hypnosis : as for instance, the
rope trick, certain forms of basket trick, and other illusions.
But these photo extras show Patsy in the form and ex
pression described by a number of clairvoyants, and drawn
by several automatic sketch and painting mediums.
Similarly they might, for instance, show the Emir of
Marienbad, flanked by two or three favorite wives of his
youth, in their baggy pantaloons, long ear-rings and dark
beauty.
Or they might show Professor Guggenheimer with his
old mother, in a lace collar and big cameo pin, just as she
wore them in life.
Or they might show Lord Helpus' drunken uncle, with
his silk tile perched rakishly over his left ear, and sporting
a simulacrum of the same blackthorn stick he used to effect
when in life, whenever he felt particularly debonnaire.
And so with marqueses and duchesses, premier docents
and orientalists, maharajahs and mandarins, the elite of
Mayfair and the furrowed chiefs of world-renowned
laboratories—any "extras" they might get were almost in
variably recognizable and identifiable as one or more rela
tives or friends. Or as some intimate or business associate
known well in life.
If Myers were Santa Claus himself he would not be
equal to faking the photographs of these hundreds upon
hundreds of recognizable discarnate souls, who come
through his studio to greet their loved ones, here on earth.
[127]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
THE MAN WHO WAS KICKED BY A JACKASS
However, in spite of thousands of "spirit extras" made
under strict test conditions, Dr. John Myers has probably
been kicked by more anti-spiritist jackasses than any other
medium since the days of the brothers Davenport.
He has been hounded and persecuted. Attempts to
drive him out of his society and revoke his license to prac
tice dental surgery, have been repeatedly made.
Mrs. Myers and Myers' charming daughter, Jeanette,
told me that on one occasion Myers even sought the Chief
of Scotland Yards for the purpose of satisfying their minds
that "The Yard" didn't have anything "against him."
To their great relief, the Chief assured them that "The
Yard" had no scintilla of evidence that Dr. Myers was not
all that he represented to be—absolutely honest, straight
forward and sincere. All of which relieved the ladies
greatly.
Nevertheless, the pundits of the press, the princely
pennygrabbers of the Church and reactionaries generally,
who never heard of Lombroso, or Kluski's materialization
of Pithecanthropus Erectus let
fly
poisoned blow darts, to
gether with the asses' heels of calumny at Myers.
For Myers
is
one of the outstanding proponents and
expositors of spiritism
in
England—
a
veritable thorn in the
side of the purblind ignoramuses who decry and denounce
spiritism and all its works.
Perhaps the most obstreperous and the most con
temptible of this pirate crew
is
a
certain noble lord, the
Marquess of Donegall, who stated: "In 1927
I
decided
that
I
was too stupid to go into the Diplomatic Service, so
I
became
a
journalist." And who afterwards confesed
in
print that his friends had to rescue him from "solitary
inebriation."
So Donegall became
a
chronicler of cocktail carouses
[128]
DOCTOR JOHN MYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
and dirty doings generally —a position into which he fitted
like the finger and thumb of a pick-pocket.
SPIRITUALISTS EXPOSE LORD DONEGALL
It was this noble gentleman, poignantly peeved at being
caught in a cheap and tawdry fake by Maurice Barbanell,
who said:
"I could not get my conditions, so I tricked Myers."
"These words were uttered by the Marquess of Done-
gall to me in his flat last week," said Barbanell. He was
referring to his 'exposure' of John Myers, made in the
Sunday Dispatch nearly two and a half years ago.
"Donegall made this confession just before I left, dis
gusted at the childishness of an 'entertainment' he had pro
vided for a few friends. It was supposed to demonstrate
how mediums get extras on plates.
"In this week's Sunday Dispatch, he printed three para
graphs referring to his 'demonstration.' He was forced to
tell his readers how he planted a faked packet of plates on
the manager of a chemist's shop.
"He did not dare to say that the manager of the shop
had telephoned to complain of the disgraceful way in which
Donegall had treated him, insisting that his shop be freed
from the suggestion of complicity.
"After reading my story in Psychic News, this manager
told me the whole story.
"The day before the 'show' —this was what Donegall
called his demonstration —Donegall went to the chemist's
shop and said he was playing an 'innocent little joke' on
two magicians who were going to his party the next night.
"His 'joke' involved the cooperation of a chemist's
shop. Would the manager be kind enough to help him by
selling this packet of plates he had brought to the two
magicians who would call the next day!
"The manager didn't like the idea, but 'thinking that a
peer of the realm would never stoop to anything that was
[129]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
not straightforward' —these are his own words —finally con
sented. After all, he had had dealings with lords and
ladies, and had found them trustworthy. He could not
believe that Lord Donegall could possibly be an exception.
"In order to make sure that the faked packets of plates
brought by Donegall would be given to the two magicians,
it was marked in pencil 'i/6d.'
A CHAMPION AMONG LIARS
Donegall said that, before his two friends went in for
the plates, his secretary would be sent in, to let the manager
know.
"This is the whole shabby story of how the Marquis
of Donegall, an aristocrat, lied, in order to arrange his
demonstration of 'fake spirit photography under stringent
test conditions.'
"When he saw Roy Brandon, Donegall outlined the
test conditions, saying I could choose where to purchase
my plates. In his story, he stressed how I could choose
'any convenient photographer's shop or chemist.'
"Anyway, this peer of the realm lied like a common
mortal. His secretary, Miss Griffiths, who now says she
is not his secretary—Donegall calls her his 'Girl Friday' —
was induced to lie about having neuralgia, so that she could
'choose' the right chemist's shop in order to buy some
aspirin.
"Donegall's behaviour was as bad as that of any fake
medium. He lied to the shop manager. He lied when he
said I had chosen the shop.
"He lied when he said that he had obtained his results
'under stringent test conditions.' He lied when he said
there was 'tense excitement' and a 'sensation' at his flat.
"He lied when he said that I knew the first plate was
'O.K.,' as otherwise I would not have signed it. It was this
plate that I had insisted on testing before his 'show' began.
[130]
DOCTOR JOHN MYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
When I tested this plate, I found it was faked, said so, and
left disgusted.
"When I had gone, someone faked my signature ! Yes,
someone even descended to forgery! What a childish and
stupid exposure of psychic photography!"
DR. MYERS TRIUMPHS AGAIN
It is good to have such staunch and fearless friends.
But it is even better to deserve them—as John Myers does.
Barbanell prints, in another issue, a letter which illus
trates and corroborates what Frank Decker has said earlier
in this chapter.
The letter is from a Mrs. G. M. Bobbett, who says:
"I happened to be one in the audience who was asked
by Mrs. Cooke, the president of the Spiritualistic church,
to purchase plates and some gaslight printing paper. There
fore, I can certify that Myers did not touch any of the
plates or the paper.
"Two representatives of the Bristol Evening Post were
present and loaded the camera, took the photographs and
developed them! Many of them were taken by the Press
camera. Extras appeared on every plate.
"Myers' presence alone was sufficient to give these re
sults, as all handling of camera, plates, etc., was in the
hands of people he had never met before.
"My friend and I were allowed to be present during
the development of the plates. At the evening lecture, the
gaslight papers —which had been kept in a sealed envelope
—were distributed to members of the audience by one of
the Press reporters. I was the fortunate recipient of one.
"I signed my name and handed it back to the reporter.
Myers went into trance for a minute or two and then asked
the Press reporters to go and develop the papers.
"On every one, except three which were blank, were
pictures or messages. On mine was a message which was
a fulfillment of a promise given to me from someone in the
[131]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
spirit world during a sitting with a medium in London in
December. No one living knew of this promise made to
me.
A MIRACLE IN SPIRITISTIC HEALING
John Myers has also demonstrated frequently his re
markable powers as a healing medium.
In one patient, R. Laurence Parish, of New York, Dr.
Myers and his guides, in addition to producing "identical
extras" on plates exposed in two different cameras of dif
ferent sizes, was cured of sciatica of many years standing
in one night.
Mr. Parish's sight also so greatly improved that, after
wearing glasses since he was six years old, he is now able
to read, without trouble, the finest print, and has discarded
all glasses.
I can understand an almost immediate cure in a case of
sciatica, even of long standing, providing there is no foci
of infection present in the body, the toxins from which
would irritate and inflame the nerve cells and their sur
rounding sheath. Or if there is no sub-luxation of the
sacro-illiac joint (the great joint at the junction of the hip
and the thigh) which can be reduced only by mechanical
means.
But I cannot understand how myopia (short vision)
caused by an error in refraction or an elongation of the
globe of the eye, or to an astigmatism —due to abnormality
in curvature of the eye, which brings the focus in front of
the retina—can possibly be corrected by psychic means,
any more than could a shortened tendon be elongated by
psychic means. Or an ankylosed joint, rigid with calcium
deposits—or from the pres«nce of boney or fibrous ad
hesions between the bones forming the joint—be made
supple and flexible by psychic treatment.
However, it would be intensely interesting to know just
what refractive changes have occurred in Mr. Parish's eyes
since his last optical and opthalmological examination.
[132]
DOCTOR JOHN MYERS— SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHER
In any event, what stands out like a light house in all
these matters is John Myers' marvelous gift of psychic
photography, his superb mediumship, and the fine, up
standing honesty of the man.
It is sincerely to be hoped that he will be spared to
earth-life activities for many years to come. For his potent
and convincing work is sadly needed in this terribly material
and greatly distraught world.
[133]
Chapter XII
WHEN BURNING AT THE STAKE WAS THE
HIGHEST AWARD FOR MEDIUMSHIP
WE
are hard put to
it,
at times, to find adequate reason
for the brutal persecution of many selected
by
the higher forces for the purpose of bringing to us proof
of the actuality of
a
future life.
To the average person, not accustomed to weighing
facts and their import,
it
seems inconceivable that for many
centuries, this persecution has been almost universally
practiced.
Perhaps the outstanding instance of this miscarriage
of decency
in
all history lies in the experience of Joan of
Arc, the "Maid of Orleans" —an angel
in
woman's form—
if
ever one came to earth. Joan "heard the voices," and
did their bidding, saving knavish, unworthy and thoroughly
ungrateful France from domination by the English.
If ever, in all the literature of psychic phenomena, there
has been recorded
a
clearer, more definitely proved instance
of spirit guidance than
is
presented
in
the case of this
gentle lovely soul, history has failed to mention it.
Read the greatest of all Mark Twain's masterpieces—
"Joan of Arc." Note how the spirit forces guided this
innocent maid —totally ignorant of the machinations and
chicaneries of rulers and their licentious, stupid satellites.
With not even an elemental knowledge of armies, sieges,
military tactics or even the conduct of battle, Jeanne won
back for her thankless, degenerate country its freedom
from the English invaders.
[134]
BURNING AT THE STAKE WAS HIGH AWARD FOR MEDIUMSHIP
And yet, she was afterwards betrayed by the very
weasels she had saved from the clutches of the English.
Betrayed by a prostitute priest, her trial—before an ec
clesiastical and civil court —whose cunning thrusts she par
ried and whose savage onslaughts she answered, day after
day with an inspired legal acumen, gilded with honest sin
cerity—was an outstanding example of marvelous psychic
power.
Joan's reward for her sacrifice —betrayal into the hands
of her implacable enemies, and her pitiful death by burning
at the stake —are among the blackest and most inerasable
of all the many black and malignant pages in French and
English history.
It almost parallels the martyrdom of Jesus, Himself, be
trayed by those to whom He would have taught love and
human decency —only to be rewarded by a cruel death on
the Cross.
WE DIDN'T DO MUCH BETTER IN AMERICA
However, our early Americans, fleeing savage per
secution from the religious bigots in Europe, and seeking
freedom to worship after their own formula—soon ac
quired their own brand of witch-baiting technique.
Cotton Mather and his mongrel crew, together with the
"witch finders" of Salem and other colonial settlements,
soon found outlet for their inhibited libido and psycho
pathic sadism in the burning, "ducking" or banishing of
women suspected of being witches.
It is now known among students of psychic phenomena
that many of the women thus dealt with were potential or
actual mediums—who unconsciously demonstrated certain
phases of psychic manifestations.
As a consequence of these extra-mundane activities,
many of these unfortunates lost their lives, while a con
siderable number of them suffered cruel and merciless
persecution.
[135]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
One of these "witches," thus persecuted, and sentenced
by Cotton Mather, during the famous Salem witch trials
of 1692 to be burned alive, was a grandmother —four times
removed —of the Eddy brothers.
In this connection it may be observed that if burning
at the stake, as a punishment for witchcraft, could only be
revived today, there would be uncounted thousands of
bigots only too willing to throw an armful of faggots on
the fire.
For in these holocausts the breed of mediums might
soon be wiped out. However, our present system of police
espionage and the punishment inflicted on mediums, con
stitute a fairly effective substitute for the older and more
forthright technic of the auto-da-fe, the rack, and the
ducking stool.
At one time, however, so bitter was the hatred of
spiritistic manifestations, that parents turned against their
own children, if they happened to exhibit any psychic
powers.
The father of the Eddy boys was one of these ignorant
bigots—a one-hundred per cent specimen of a persecuting
fanatic. The biographer of the Eddy brothers, Colonel
Olcott, tells us that these two innocent boys were marked
for life by blows given by this troglodyte father, in order
to neutralize or discourage what he considered manifes
tations of diabolical activities.
It may be interesting to know that the mother —herself
possessed of considerable mediumistic power —tried in every
possible way to dissuade the religious brute, who was her
husband, from making their home a hell on earth. But to
no effect.
Olcott tells us that when the younger of the two Eddys
became entranced the father, with the assistance of an
equally stupid and vicious neighbor, poured boiling water
over the boy, and placed a red-hot coal on the top of his
head—leaving an indelible scar as a result.
[136]
BURNING AT THE STAKE WAS HIGH AWARD FOR MEDIUMSHIP
So thoroughly anesthetized was the boy, however, that
no visible symptom of pain was felt from this torture. As
the Eddys grew older, however, the anthropoid father
saw the error of his way—so far as the economic aspects of
the matter were concerned. So he began to hire the boys
out as mediums—in an attempt to capitalize the gifts he
himself had tried so brutally to discourage.
Colonel Olcott has testified, in his reports, that the
hands and arms of the Eddy brothers, as well as the arms
of their sisters, were grooved with the imprints of ligatures,
and scarred with the burns of sealing wax—intended more
thoroughly to secure the knots fastening these boys into
their chairs during the demonstrations.
In addition, two of the girls had pieces of their flesh
pinched out by careless and injudicious locking of handcuffs
on their wrists. Also the brothers had been repeatedly
ridden on rails, beaten, shot at, stoned and chased —their
cabinets broken into smithereens—while the blood oozed
from their finger nails, as a result of the man-handling
inflicted on them.
"Against ignorance even the gods themselves strive in
vain."
HOW SPIRIT ADMONITION HELPED LINCOLN TO
PRESERVE THE NATION
And, speaking of ignorance, it might be interesting to
inquire of some of the millions of medium-baiters if they
are aware of the fact that Abraham Lincoln was a believer
in spiritualism? And that he wrote the Emancipation Pro
clamation at the behest of a spirit? Also, that his visit to
the Federal camps, at a time when a disorganizing mutiny
threatened to spread throughout the Union forces, was
made by advice of a spirit, who came to him through a little
trance medium?
Here is a brief outline of the story. If Magistrate
Donovan or Judge O'Flaherty will remember it the next
[137]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
time a medium, doing sincere and honest work, is brought
before them for trial and sentence, it might give the eminent
gentlemen pause, and keep them from making bigger fools
of themselves than Nature and a prejudiced training have
already done.
It was during one of the most disheartening crises of the
Rebellion, after the Union forces had lost several battles.
Washington was threatened by the swift advance of the
Confederate Army and the Union troops were becoming
panic stricken.
Their officers found difficulty in keeping the men from
deserting en masse. Drum-head courts-martial and firing
squads worked overtime in a losing attempt to discourage
these evidences of psychological fatigue.
Miss Nettie Colborn, a young trance medium, came to
Washington at this time in an attempt to secure a furlough
for her soldier brother, who was wretchedly ill.
Mrs. Lincoln, hearing of the wonderful psychic powers
of Miss Colborn, persuaded the President to invite her to
the White House for a special seance. This, Mr. Lincoln
was only too happy to do, feeling strongly that, out of the
meeting with the gifted medium perhaps something con
structive might develop.
"THAT IT IS OF GOD I HAVE NO DOUBT"
No sooner had the President entered the room where
the medium and Mrs. Lincoln's guests were awaiting his
arrival than the girl was entranced. Almost immediately
she began to address the President. For upwards of an
hour she spoke. And in a manner which, the spectators
declared, seemed almost to take the nature of a command.
Her voice was sonorous and astoundingly masculine.
Her facility in expression and the power of her argument
was conviction itself. "Those present declared that they
lost sight of the timid girl in the majesty of the utterance
[138]
BURNING AT THE STAKE WAS HIGH AWARD FOR MEDIUMSHIP
and seemed to realize that some strange masculine spirit-
force was giving speech to almost divine commands."
The advice—or perhaps we might even say the orders
—given by the advanced spirit possessing the girl, were to
cease attempting to palliate or compromise with dissenting
forces, and immediately to issue a proclamation, freeing the
slaves.
This, for the psychologic purpose of giving a higher
moral tone to the war, and cleansing its motivation of what
many believed to be a sordid basis.
For remember, the real cause of the war was largely an
economic one, just as is the case with the great majority of
wars, involving the difficulty of Northern manufacturers to
compete profitably with the South because of their cheaper
scale of labor—black slaves being much easier to maintain
in productive efficiency than white operatives.
In any event, Lincoln was profoundly impressed with
the message delivered by the little medium, and said : "My
child, you possess a very singular gift, and that it is of God
I have no doubt. I thank you for coming here tonight. It
is more important than perhaps any one here present can
understand."
A few nights later Lincoln was advised by the same
spirit to visit the Union camps in person, stimulate and in
spire the soldiers and hearten them in their efforts—which
he did.
The effect of the Emancipation Proclamation and the
cheering visit of the President to the troops of the Potomac
were electrifying. Coming at a time of such desperate need
it would be no overstatement to say that the communication
Lincoln received from this high spiritual source and upon
which he acted so promptly, had a profound influence in
maintaining the Union intact.
And yet, it is this very country that—acting under spirit
guidance—Lincoln, held united, which now makes the prac
tice of mediumship a crime, punishable by fine or imprison
[139]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
ment. It encourages an army of Pecksniffian snoopers to
harry and persecute just such psychic sensitives as Miss
Nettie Colborn, and makes a mockery of human decency
and justice.
WHEN SPIRIT ADVICE GETS A KICK IN THE FACE
Lincoln was a great and beautiful soul, with a mind
quick to reflect the light of reason. He was big enough
and intelligent enough to accept the advice, and carry out
the behests of the spirit intelligences who spoke to him
through Miss Nettie Colborn, the little trance medium. And
to say of this advice, "That it is of God I have no doubt."
Of an entirely different stripe of mind, however, is the
politician now invested with robes once graced and digni
fied by the immortal Lincoln. A politician who has already
smashed to smithereens practically every promise made to
his constituents of pre-election days, and who has sur
rounded himself with an aggregation of bigots, morons,
incompetents and plain nit-wits, whose antic stupidities have
brought this country to the brink of disaster.
And yet this man—who could have been the greatest
force for good among contemporary rulers —has contemptu
ously ignored advices from high spirit intelligences, repeat
edly transmitted to him by a humble instrument of the spirit
world—the recognition and acceptance of which might have
saved this country billions of dollars, and its people count
less billions of hours of mental and physical agony.
For, instead of heeding warnings of impending disasters
and the constructive advice offered in dozens of telegrams
and registered letters, our Executive and his advisors saw
fit to flip these communications into forgotten files.
"predict"
The proof of these statements is contained in a 255-page
book by Herman Halpern, which may be ordered through
the National Library Press, publishers of the book you are
now reading.
[140]
BURNING AT THE STAKE WAS HIGH AWARD FOR MEDIUMSHIP
This amazing volume consists of a series of predictions
or prophecies —dealing with subjects vital to the conserva
tion of life, health and wealth of millions.
It consists of fac-simile reproduction of telegrams and
registered letters sent to Mr. Roosevelt and Col. Louis
McH. Howe.
In addition, Halpern has scores of newspaper clippings,
which prove that many of the predictions made by him and
sent to Roosevelt and Howe have been fulfilled in all their
grim inevitability. There is every likelihood that those not
yet fulfilled will be equally accurate.
On January 28, 1935
—months before any mortal could
foresee the calamity —Halpern wrote the Administration,
prophesying widespread drought —"a period of desiccation"
—total destruction of crops in the stricken areas, and the
death of millions of cattle.
Repeatedly he has conveyed messages from the spirit
intelligences to the President and his Secretary, warning
them of the impending drought and famine, and protesting
against the stupidity of enforced crop and cotton limitation,
the killing of farrow sows, and the wanton destruction of
cattle.
He has repeatedly predicted serious crashes in the stock
market. Months before the distant mutter of the war-
drums were heard, Halpern predicted the Italo-Ethiopian
War, and emphasized the disaster that awaited this country
if we flirted with the murdering minions who were disgrac
ing what little remained of the fair name of civilization.
He predicted hurricanes and floods, conveyed definite
workable advice from the spirit forces concerning unem
ployment, and our loss of foreign markets, the stamping
out of the illegal sale of liquor and the counterfeiting rack
ets, and a score of other matters of vital interest.
This advice, if it had been followed, would have made
of Roosevelt another Washington or Lincoln —the best be
loved man of this generation —instead of what he is today.
[141]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Mr. Halpern can predict and transmit advice from the
spirit world without being thrown into jail for the crime.
He can afford to say at any time what is given him to say.
Therefore, he can afford to do the human, helpful work
he is trying so hard to do—and with such disheartening
results.
I advise every reader of "Spiritualism's Challenge" to
send for a copy of "I Predict." Read it carefully. For
I haven't told one-fiftieth of what there is to tell concerning
these amazing spirit messages. And perhaps some of its
predictions may help you personally —even though the rulers
of this country contemptuously ignore them.
[142]
Chapter XIII
HOW THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS TRIED TO
SPIRITUALIZE HUMANITY
IN
all the history of spiritualism perhaps no mediums have
ever been so harassed, persecuted and bedevilled as were
the two brothers Davenport, born in Buffalo, New York,
in 1839.
As early as 1846, two years before the outbreak of raps
and thumps in the Fox family, Mother and Father Daven
port were more or less constantly disturbed by what they
described as "snaps" and "loud crackling noises."
However, after the Fox manifestations the two brothers
and their younger sister Elizabeth began to experiment by
putting their hands on the table. Very soon, not only were
loud and insistent noises heard, but automatic writing was
developed which conveyed information on subjects that
could not possibly have been known to these young boys and
their sister.
Shortly after this phase had been evolved all three
children were levitated, and floated in the air above the
heads of those in the room. Hundreds of people in Buffalo
witnessed these strange happenings.
Finally, knives and forks danced in the air, lead pencils
were seen to write—sometimes in broad daylight, musical
instruments floated in the air, played by invisible hands,
direct voices were heard and materialized spirits appeared.
The communicating intelligences then instructed the boys
to visit various cities and hold public seances, with the idea
of weaning the dogmatic away from their skepticism, and
give them an opportunity to embrace the truths of spiritism
[143]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
—just as, some years later, Katie King was instructed to do.
In which effort, by the way, the boys were almost as un
successful as was Katie herself.
In 1857 the Davenports appeared before the professors
of Harvard University, who were even more thick-headed
and recalcitrant than the majority of them are today. And
quite as loath to accept the facts of spiritistic phenomena
as are the present day incumbents —judging by the reception
accorded the mediumship of "Margery" and others.
However, these patriarchs of '57 worked their ingenuity
overtime, perfecting tests effectively to prevent the Daven
port upstarts from playing ducks and drakes with their
scientific hypotheses. They finally settled on a plan that
seemed inspired with what our English cousins would call
a "little bit of all right."
The professors bought five hundred feet of new rope,
bored a couple of dozen holes in the cabinet, set up in one
of their rooms, and then hog-tied the boys to the chair and
to the cabinet in a manner that has been described as noth
ing short of brutal.
After the rope had been lashed in and out of all the
holes in the cabinet and 'round and 'round the boys and the
chair on which they were seated, the knots were further tied
with linen thread.
Then one of the investigators, Professor Pierce, took a
seat in the cabinet between the two brothers.
WHEN THE SPIRITS RAISED CAIN
Immediately afterwards a spirit hand was shown, pro
truding from the cabinet window, and a veritable din was
created by tambourines and bells which were rattled and
rung in the professor's face.
It is only fair to say that Pierce was a cool-headed and
determined individual. For every time the tambourines and
bells stopped for breath, as it were, Pierce ran his hands
over the rope fastenings, to see if the boys were still there.
[144]
DAVENPORT BROTHERS TRY TO SPIRITUALIZE HUMANITY
Finally, the spirits got tired of this amateurish nonsense
and, in the twinkle of an eye, released the boys from their
bindings. When the cabinet door was thrown open, a few
seconds later, the ropes were found to be ingeniously twisted
around the neck of the professor.
And yet, even after all this, the Harvard scientists
made no report. They said nothing —and they never re
canted one word of their story.
After several years of public appearances, attended by
thousands —the greater majority of whom were enraged
by manifestations which kicked their bigotry in the face,
and gave the lie to all the stupidities they professed con
cerning the future life and its status —the Davenports con
ceived the idea of going to England.
They felt—or they were impressed by their guides to
believe—that in a land where thinking had been practiced
much longer than in America, a kindlier reception might
await them, and a readier acceptance of their psychic
propaganda could be expected.
So to England they went, challenging the materialism
and skepticism of a fair percentage of English brains, reel
ing to the heady wine of Darwinism, as served by the in-
dominable Huxley,—and a much larger percentage of the
soddening ale and porter of Presbyterians and Church of
Englandism.
Amazing were the results the Davenports produced, in
the presence of the thought-leaders of the Empire. The
brothers roused public attention as it never had been roused
before —or since —on the subject of psychic phenomena.
Even J. N. Maskelyne, the Joseph Dunninger of Eng
land—vociferous, publicity-seeking, blatant and egoistic—
was forced to say: "Certain it
is,
England was completely
taken aback for
a
time
by
the wonders presented
by
these
jugglers."
He further adds: "The brothers did more than all
other men to familiarize England with the so-called Spirit
[145]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
ualism, and before crowded audiences and under varied
conditions they produced really wonderful feats. The hole-
and-corner seances of other media, where with darkness or
semi-darkness, and a pliant, or frequently a devoted as
sembly, manifestations are occasionally said to occur, cannot
be compared with the Davenport exhibitions in their effect
upon the public mind."
THE MEDIUM'S MENACE
Later, however, when the success of the Davenport's
had excited the deep hatred and malignancy of the con
juring fraternity—as physical mediumship always does, the
world over—Maskelyne, with true Dunningerish effrontery,
claimed to have exposed the Davenports.
As a matter of fact, Maskelyne's alleged exposure was
nothing but a tissue of transparent lies. For never, in all
his double-dealing career had he been able to duplicate,
under identical conditions, any of the phenomena produced
by these brothers.
Still, the magicians of that day, like the prestidigitating
gentry of today, made more noise, got more newspaper
support, and created more sympathy for themselves and
commendation for their faked exposures than Jesus Christ
Himself could have possibly neutralized.
Even if He had once more walked on the waters, cured
the lame and the blind, and been again resurrected in spirit
from the dead, He would not be believed.
In touring the English provinces, and in Liverpool,
Huddersfield and Leeds, organized mobs stormed the halls,
rushed the platform, broke the cabinet and manhandled the
Davenport brothers so seriously that they were forced to
cancel all engagements in England.
On many occasions these mediums—perhaps the greatest
in their particular phase the world has ever known —lived
in actual danger of their lives.
Mr. Randall, in his "Biography" of the Davenports
[146]
DAVENPORT BROTHERS TRY TO SPIRITUALIZE HUMANITY
tells us that they "were compelled to endure horrors baffling
description, for no other offense than trying to convince the
multitude that they were not beasts that perish and leave
no sign, but immortal, deathless, grave-surviving souls.
"Mediums alone are capable of demonstrating the fact
of man's continued existence after death; and yet (strange
inconsistency of human nature !
) the very people who per
secute these, their truest and best friends, and fairly hound
them to premature death or despair, are the very ones who
freely lavish all that wealth can give upon those whose
office it is merely to guess at human immortality."
It's a mad world, my masters.
THE MAD MAGICIANS
Admittedly, the most implacable and vitriolic among all
the foes of spiritualism are the professional conjurers. In
discussing the claims of certain of these flea-like contem
poraries of the Davenports Sir Richard Burton, one of the
best informed orientalists that ever lived, had this to say
about the Davenports.
"I have spent a great part of my life in Oriental lands,
and have seen their many magicians. Lately I have been
permitted to see and be present at the performance of
Messrs. Anderson and Tolmaque. The latter showed, as
they profess, clever conjuring, but they do not even attempt
what the Messrs. Davenport and Fay succeed in doing; for
instance the beautiful management of the musical instru
ments. Finally, I have read and listened to every ex
planation of the Davenport 'tricks' hitherto placed before
the English public, and, believe me, if anything would make
me take that tremendous jump 'from matter to spirit,' it is
the utter and complete unreason of the reasons by which
the 'manifestations' are explained."
Hamilton, greatest conjurer in France, writes "The phe
nomena surpassed my expectations, and the experiments are
full of interest for me. I consider it my duty to add that
[147]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
they are inexplicable." There are some honest, truthful
magicians in the world, after all.
Finally, it may be asked and in all good faith, what par
ticular good is accomplished when spirits bang tambourines,
swing trumpets, ring bells, tie and untie ropes, float their
mediums around in the air, materialize entirely or in part
—or, in fact, do any of the seemingly inconsequential things
that occupy so much of their seance time?
The best answer to this question that I have ever come
across was writen by Mr. P. B. Randall, biographer of the
Davenports, when he said:
"The fault lies not with the immortals, but in us; for, as
is the demand, so is the supply. If we cannot be reached in
one way, we must be, and are, reached in another; and the
wisdom of the eternal world gives the blind race just as
much as it can bear and no more. If we are intellectual
babes, we must put up with mental pap till our digestive
capacities warrant and demand stronger food; and, if
people can best be convinced of immortality by spiritual
pranks and antics, the ends resorted to justify the means.
The sight of a spectral arm in an audience of three thousand
persons will appeal to more hearts, make a deeper im
pression and convert more people to a belief in their here
after, in ten minutes, than a whole regiment of preachers,
no matter how eloquent, could in five years."
To me, this seems unanswerable.
[148]
Chapter XIV
HONEST AND DISHONEST MEDIUMS
I have repeatedly emphasized throughout these pages my
belief that only about seventy-five per cent of mediums
are to be trusted. Among this high percentage are a rela
tively small number of crooks and charlatans —fattening on
the fears and hopes of the deluded, who put their faith in
these thieves and jackals.
Most of the others are either poorly-developed, or else
grossly incompetent. These dilletantes, however, may be
perhaps an even greater menace to the acceptance of
spiritism and the general progress of the movement than are
the preying parasites.
For the parasites are usually clever enough to "put on
a good show," while the bunglers and gropers merely insult
the intelligence of honest investigators with their inept and
inconclusive efforts.
There
is,
however, still another class of mediums who
contribute their quota of ammunition to the enemies of
spiritism. These comprise the mediums who —sometimes
for many years—may produce perfectly amazing phe
nomena—psychic manifestations that convince even the most
skeptical of scientists —only to resort later —and often for
no apparent reason—to the cheapest and most flagrant
deception.
Some of the stupid tricks these mediums practice would
be laughable
if
they did not—because of the enormous pub
licity given their exposure—jeopardize the integrity of the
very structure upon which acceptance of the truth of psychic
phenomena
is
based.
[149]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
THE STRANGE CASE OF PALLADINO
Perhaps the best known example of this conscious or
unconscious duplicity is to be found in the incredibly fan
tastic career of Eusapia Palladino, who demonstrated her
really remarkable powers before scores of men and women,
known and respected wherever science is studied.
Merely to name these scientists, their scholastic attain
ments and their contributions to our sum total of knowledge,
or their professional connections, would require at least two
full pages of this book. But here is the story.
In 1888 Professor Chiaia, of the University of Naples,
introduced Palladino to the scientific world. This was in
an open letter, addressed to Professor Caesare Lombroso,
perhaps the greatest criminologist the world has ever known.
Chiaia wrote Lombroso: "Either bound to a seat or
firmly held by the hands of the curious, she attracts to her
the articles of furniture which surrounds her, lifts them up,
holds them suspended in the air like Mahomet's coffin,
and makes them come down again with undulatory move
ments, as if they were obeying her will. She increases their
weight or lessens it according to her pleasure. She raps or
taps upon the walls, the ceiling, the floor, with fine rhythm
and cadence. In response to the requests of the spectators,
something like flashes of electricity shoot forth from her
body, and envelop her or enwrap the spectators of these
marvelous scenes. She draws upon cards that you hold out,
everything that you want—figures, signatures, numbers,
sentences —by just stretching out her hand toward the
indicated place.
"If you place in a corner of the room a vessel con
taining a layer of soft clay, you find after some moments
the imprint in it of a small or a large hand, the image of a
face (front or profile) from which a plaster cast can be
taken. In this way portraits of a face taken at different
angles have been preserved and those who desire so to do
can thus make serious and important studies.
[150]
HONEST AND DISHONEST MEDIUMS
"This woman rises in the air, no matter what bands tie
her down. She seems to lie upon the empty air, as on a
couch, contrary to all the laws of gravity; she plays on musi
cal instruments —organs, bells, tambourines —as if they had
been touched by her hands or moved by the breath of in
visible gnomes . . . This woman at times can increase her
stature by more than four inches."
It was not until three years later that Lombroso —
thoroughly skeptical and rankly materialistic —availed him
self of his confrere's invitation.
LOMBROSO' S CONVERSION AND WHAT IT LED TO
After two seances with Palladino, Lombroso, converted,
wrote to Chiaia : "I am filled with confusion and regret that
I combatted with so much persistence the possibility of the
facts called Spiritualistic."
Then, followed seance after seance, before scientists
who racked their brains for new and improved methods of
controlling the medium, only to be forced to agree in the
main with the statement made by Sir Oliver Lodge, in his
report to the English Society of Psychical Research, con
cerning the Palladino seances, conducted at Professor
Richet's home.
Sir Oliver wrote: "However the facts are to be ex
plained, the possibility of the facts I am constrained to
admit. There is no further room in my mind for doubt.
Any person without invincible prejudice who had had the
same experience would have come to the same broad con
clusion, viz. : that things hitherto held impossible do actually
occur . . . The result of my experience is to convince me
that certain phenomena usually considered abnormal belong
to the order of nature, and as a corollary from this, that
these phenomena ought to be investigated and recorded by
persons and societies interested in natural knowledge."
Howard Thurston, perhaps the most noted magician
in America, who, with the aid of his assistant, controlled
[151]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
the feet and hands of Palladino in a good light, tells us:
"1 witnessed in person the table levitations of Madame
Eusapia Palladino .... and am thoroughly convinced
that the phenomena I saw were not due to fraud and were
not performed by the aid of her feet, knees, or hands."
Thurston offered to donate a thousand dollars to any
charity if it could be proved by anyone that the levitation
of the table was not produced by Eusapia, without any
resort to fraud or trickery.
Thurston is that rare bird among magicians —a sincere
and honest man, as was also his famous predecessor, Keller,
who freely admitted that the phenomena-producing powers
of true psychics far transcend the capabilities of even the
most adept of conjurers.
EUSAPIA FALLS FROM GRACE
Finally, after twenty odd years of investigation —with
results ranging from mediocre to miraculous —an American
reporter asked Eusapia bluntly if she had ever been caught
cheating.
Eusapia replied ingenuously: "Many times I have been
told so. You see, it is like this. Some people are at a table
who expect tricks —in fact, they want them. I am in a
trance. Nothing happens. They get impatient. They think
of the tricks —nothing but tricks. They put their minds on
the tricks, —and I—and I automatically respond. But it
is not often. They merely will me to do them. That is
all."
Even though Eusapia may not have understood the basic
principles of mediumship suggested in her reply, she never
theless spoke more truthfully than she knew.
During this visit to America—late in life, depleted in
health, and with her powers waning —Eusapia resorted
more and more to trickery —so obvious as almost to excite
ridicule.
She was genrally discredited, amid the "thumbs down"
[152]
HONEST AND DISHONEST MEDIUMS
of the superficial and unbelieving multitude. Because she
had been caught cheating it was vociferously asserted that
she had always cheated. And that a number of the greatest
scientists in Europe, who had written books and mono
graphs about her phenomena, were merely self-deluded
crackpots, who really should be cutting out paper dolls in
some psychiatrical ward, instead of spreading stupidities.
Palladino's fall from high estate was manna and honey
to the churchmen, mince pie and ice cream to the magicians,
and an invitation to the dance to the psychic-hating world
at large.
Nevertheless, Lombroso, in his classical study of Palla-
dino "After Death—What?" stoutly defended his con
clusions, even though he admits Eusapia's late-year de
ceptions.
He says: "Many are the crafty tricks she plays, both
in the state of trance (unconsciously) and out of it—for
example, freeing one of her two hands, held by the con
trollers, for the sake of moving objects near her; making
touches; slowly lifting the legs of the table by means of one
of her knees and one of her feet; and feigning to adjust her
hair and then slyly pulling out one hair and putting it over
the little balance tray of a letter-weigher in order to lower
it. She was seen by Faifofer, before her seances, furtively
gathering flowers in a garden, that she might feign them to
be "apports" by availing herself of the shrouding dark of
the room .... And yet her deepest grief is when she is
accused of trickery during the seances —accused unjustly,
too, sometimes, it must be confessed, because we are now
sure that phantasmal limbs are super-imposed (or added
to) her own and act as their substitute, while all the time
they were believed to be her own limbs detected in the act of
cozening for their owner's behoof."
I have dwelt thus in detail on Eusapia Palladino's
checkered career, inasmuch as she offers a clear-cut example
[153]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
of a psychic truth, which all students of spirtism should
recognize.
This truth is that the nature and the quality of a
medium's potential may increase and flower into something
almost awe-inspiring —something that discloses an ever
growing beauty of soul.
Or it may sink into deeper and deeper depths—at
tracting to itself, so to speak, only the crawling things of
spirit life. Or finally, it may wither and atrophy, becoming
more and more attenuated, until it flickers out like a gut
tering candle.
In these circumstances it may well be possible that even a
great medium, finding his mediumistic powers waning, might
be tempted to resort to fraud, hoping for an early rehabili
tation of his pristine powers.
Home —perhaps the greatest medium that ever lived—
tells us that once, for an entire year, his mediumistic powers
were taken away. After this period, they were returned in
even fuller plenitude.
What a medium of lesser integrity than Home might
have done under such a calamitous hiatus can well be ima
gined. Especially when it is remembered that the majority of
mediums—particularly the passive variety —are no more
capable of earning their living in any other gainful capacity
than our little Boston bull would be of wangling a living out
of a wintry northern wilderness —if she had to depend upon
her food-providing powers alone.
ARE MEDIUMS RESPONSIBLE?
To the materialist, and to those whose livelihood is
threatened by any general acceptance of spiritism, as well as
to the superficialist whose brain is muscle-bound —and who
will believe anything told him in a loud voice or in a scream
ing print—mediums caught in deception are frauds—and
always have been frauds.
No matter how much genuine phenomena has been wit
[154]
HONEST AND DISHONEST MEDIUMS
nessed through the agency of finally-discredited mediums,
or how many one hundred per cent evidential messages have
been delivered by them, they are—in the cement-encased
minds of the pooh-poohers —flagrant fakirs.
They contend, with a withering finality, that the only
thing wonderful or unexplainable about the entire matter
is that these fakirs could have "gotten away with it" as long
as they have.
It never occurs to them to analogize the proposition, and
argue that if a man comes home in a drunken delirium and
cuts his wife's throat, he must have been coming home de
liriously drunk and cutting his wife's throat all his life.
The only thing unique about the matter is that on one
or more occasions he happend to get caught, in the midst of
his sadistic revels.
They might also contend that if a girl, in the white flame
of passion, is seduced, she must have been a prostitute ever
since she wore pinafores.
Or if a banker absconds with the depositors money, he
must have been doing this ever since the state was stupid
enough to give him a charter. Which would suggest the
natural query, how on earth could it be possible that no one
ever caught the crook the other six hundred and fourteen
times he absconded with his plunder?
WHY SOME MEDIUMS MAY BE BLAMELESSLY DISHONEST
Now, aply this same principle to mediums, who must
by reason of their psychic impressibility and extreme sen
sitiveness, respond to vibrations, suggestions and forces, the
very nature of which can hardly be conceived by the
majority of people.
It suggests, although from an entirely different angle,
the "deed without a name," which the witches on that
barren heath tried to explain to the doughty and ambitious
Macbeth.
Remember also that mediumship is an organic gift. It
[155]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
has nothing whatsover to do with merit, morals or char
acter. A medium may be a superlatively good instrument
and yet be a degenerate, or a potential pick-pocket.
Fortunately for the great cause of spiritism, however,
like attracts like. The medium who vibrates on a high plane
of honesty and sincerity attracts honest and helpful forces—
truthful and uplifting in their work and in their influence.
The medium, whose instincts are base, mercenary and
deceitful will attract spirits whose influence is debasing and
deceitful —who will deliberately resort to fraud and trickery,
"just for the hell of it."
And then there are mediums who—visioning waning
power, loss of prestige, or because of economic necessity —
deliberately plan and execute faked phenomena, or impart
fraudulent messages.
Yet we, ourselves, may contribute, in no small measure,
to this debacle. More particularly
if,
year after year—
as
in
the case of Eusapia Palladino —we scrutinize the
efforts of the medium with suspicion, hostility, or actual
disdain.
Conan Doyle defines this situation very clearly when he
says,
in
his splendid "History of Spiritualism," "There are
obvious difficulties which are so grave that they are almost
unsurmountable. When
a
Crookes or
a
Lombroso explores
the subject he either sits alone with the medium, or he has
with him others whose knowledge of psychic conditions and
laws may be helpful
in
the matter. This
is
not usually so
with these committees. They fail to understand that they
are themselves part of the experiment, and that
it
is
possible
for them to create such intolerable vibrations, and to sur
round themselves with so negative an atmosphere, that these
outside forces, which are governed by very definite laws,
are unable to penetrate
it.
It
is
not
in
vain that the three
words 'with one accord' are interpolated into the account
of the apostolic sitting
in
the upper room. If
a
small piece
of metal may upset
a
whole magnetic installation, so
a
[156]
HONEST AND DISHONEST MEDIUMS
strong adverse psychic current may ruin a psychic circle. It
is for this reason, and not on account of any superior cre
dulity, that practicing Spiritualists continually get results as
are never attained by mere researchers."
A PLEA FOR TOLERANCE AND FAIR PLAY
Admittedly, many spiritualistic mediums have, on oc
casion, been caught cheating, when the balance of their
phenomena is unquestionably genuine. Nevertheless, we
must bear in mind that these mediums, because of the sen
sitivity of their organisms, are frequently influenced by posi
tive minds, whether incarnate or discarnate.
Under the influence of this suggestion—just as Palladino
told the reporter—they often stoop to fraudulent practice,
substitution in phenomena, or impersonation.
Remember that most mediums are of the passive variety
—channels through which spirit forces may manifest, and
therefore, relatively irresponsible for their phenomena or
their messages.
Positive mediums, of the type of Mrs. Felicie O. Cross-
ley, of Los Angeles —thoroughly sincere and highly gifted
in clairaudience, clairvoyance and clairsenscience—and Ar
thur Ford of New York, internationally known as a message
bearer of dependability, do not permit their organism to
become the mere instrument of possessing intelligences.
Mediums of this type and the astral helpers who assist
them in "getting their messages through," would not coun
tenance either conscious or unconscious duplicity. In all the
hundreds of messages I have heard these mediums bring,
not one could be construed as fraudulent. Or "manu
factured" merely to gratify the desire of either the sitters or
the spirits. Or to tickle the vanity or the egotism of the
medium. It is a great pity, and definitely a handicap —so
far as the prestige and the credibility of spirtualism are
concerned, that this phase of mediumship is not more fre
quently met, and cannot be more generally developed.
[157]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Remember, mediumship proves to us that there are good
and bad, ignorant and enlightened, truth-tellers and liars
on the spirit side of life, as well as on this side of the brook.
To secure the best results we should be sympathetic,
without being credulous; careful and observant, without
being hostile. If these spirits are good we should welcome
them as the friends they are. If they are evil we should
shut the door on them, just as we would shut our door on
any undesirable intruder.
And always mix a reasonable amount of tolerance with
our intelligence.
[168]
Chapter XV
MANHANDLING THE MEDIUM
While
it is true that there are many quacks and fakers
among mediums—perhaps almost as many as there
are among lawyers, doctors and preachers —it is also true
that there is a large percentage of honest, sincere message
bearers and psychics, who are uterly incapable of deliberate
deception.
Nevertheless, communications which are little more than
a tissue of lies are frequently given—and in absolute good
faith—by honest mediums. But this is usually because the
spirit imparting the message is mistaken in his premises, or
in his facts.
For remember, when a liar, thief or scoundrel is trans
lated into the next phase of experience, he doesn't don wings
immediately —or at any other time, for that matter. He
remains the same liar, thief and scoundrel he was when he
was in earth life—until he learns the lessons of decency,
honesty and sincerity he should have learned while here.
If the medium, acting sincerely—as the innocent dupe of
a mischief-making spirit—transmits messages thus received
he is naturally discredited. He loses reputation and clien
tele. But he doesn't lose his health, or sustain some shock
or injury that might be permanently crippling in its effects.
The materializing medium, however, usually entranced,
in order to facilitate the utilization of his ectoplasm by the
form-molding spirits, labors under a far more serious
handicap.
For any drastic change in the conditions under which
he must work—such as grasping or tearing at the etheric or
[159]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
materialized body the medium's guides have developed, or
changing the vibratory intensity impinging on the body of
the medium by suddenly switching on an electric light or
flash —might create a profound disturbance in his organism.
Remember that the ectoplasm and the sensigol gas, from
which the materialized entities are built up, is developed
largely from the epithelial structures of the medium's body.
This material, of which ten specimens were examined micro
scopically by Schrenck-Notzing, gave the following com
position :
"In the first nine preparations examined there are cel
lular granulated structures, about the size and shape of
white blood corpuscles, or mucus corpuscles, and also bodies
resembling epithelium without nuclei, and true epithelium.
In Preparation No. 10 there were sharply defined nuclear
aggregates of leucocytes and clearly marked epithelium.
"The result of the examination of Preparation 10 jus
tifies the assumption that the cellular granulated structures
found in other preparations also represent leucocytes whose
nuclei are concealed by the granulation, and the unnucleated
epitheliod bodies represent epithelium with its nuclei already
decomposed."
Thus, with characteristic German thoroughness, Pro
fessor von Schrenck-Notzing has proved beyond a particle
of doubt the material nature of this substance.
In the case of Willie S.—a young Austrian medium,
with whom much splendid scientific work was done—Dr.
von Schrenck-Notzing was able to show ectoplasm to more
than a hundred picked observers, not one of whom could
afford to stultify himself by denying the indisputable evi
dences of his own senses.
Among the scientists who signed affirmations as to the
genuineness of the phenomena produced were professors
and ex-professors of Jena, Giessen, Munich, Heidelberg,
Upsala, Tubingen, Freiburg, Basle and other universities,
[160]
MANHANDLING THE MEDIUM
together with quite a number of famous neurologists, phy
sicians, chemists, physicists and biologists.
In brief, the most pains-taking study of ectoplasm and
its characteristics —both microscopically and chemically —
has so definitely established its material status that anyone
who now denies its existence merely writes himself down as
ignorant of all the multiplicity of facts garnered. And en
tirely imcompetent to discuss intelligently any of the phe
nomena attributed to the utilization of ectoplasm and its
combinations in the seance room.
JEOPARDIZING THE LIFE OF THE MEDIUM
Unfortunately it has been found that people of this type,
either through ignorance or maliciousness, are those most
likely to cause serious injury, (perhaps even death) to the
entranced medium, who is connected by what might cor
respond to an umbilical band of ectoplasm with the entities
his guides are helping to create.
As Dr. Gustave Geley, late Director of the Institute
Metapsychique puts it:
"During the whole time of the materialization phe
nomenon the product formed is in obvious physiological and
psychical connexion with the medium. The physiological
connexion is sometimes perceptible in the form of a thin
cord joining the structure with the medium, which might be
compared with the umbilical cord joining the embryo to its
parent. Even if this cord is not visible the physiological
rapport is always close. Every impression received through
the ectoplasm reacts upon the medium, and vice versa. The
sensation reflex of the structure coalesces with that of the
medium; in a word, everything proves that the ectoplasm
is the partly externalised medium herself."
Sometimes this built-up substance is extraordinarily sen
sitive, appearing and disappearing like lightning. There
fore, it follows—and for very good reasons—that if the
materialized entity be roughly grasped, or if the lights are
[161]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
suddenly turned upon
it,
the spirit will quickly dissolve —
the ectoplasm snapping back into the body of the medium
with all the force of
a
giant rubber band.
Such an accident happened to Frank Decker some time
ago, when one of the members of the group,
in
attempting
to secure the curtain over
a
window which had not been
properly closed, accidently drew the curtain aside, per
mitting the light from
a
bright arc lamp
in
the street to
strike full upon the body of Mr. Decker.
Immediately the medium uttered
a
groan of pain. His
stertorous breathing stopped, as though he had suddenly col
lapsed from shock, sustained during
a
surgical operation.
For
a
tense minute there was dead silence. This was
finally broken by Patsy's voice. He said sharply: "Keep
your seats, everbody, and don't be afraid. The medium
will be all right. We'll take care of him."
We all breathed
a
little more freely after this assurance.
Then, after
a
long moment, Patsy requested me to come up
and take the medium's pulse.
There wasn't any pulse, either in the radial or
in
the
cartoid arteries. And no sound or sign or respiration. This
fact was confirmed by Dr. Maurice Sturm and his surgical
nurse, who were at the seance.
After what seemed to be
a
minute or more the pulse
gradually returned.
It
was of
a
fibrillating or fluttering
character, about fifty to the minute, with
a
blood pressure in
the neighborhood of ninety. A shallow respiration, of
about ten to the minute, was then heard and felt.
Finally Patsy, who was "standing" right by the chair,
in
some way unknown to us caused the pulse and respiration
to cease again, after which he brought
it
up once more.
This juggling with pulse and respiration was repeated
two or three times, until Dr. Sturm and
I
begged Patsy to
restore Frank to consciousness and functional normality,
which he did. After coming out of his trance condition the
medium suffered
a
severe attack of vomiting. Then, for
[162]
MANHANDLING THE MEDIUM
forty-eight hours afterwards he was in a state of great de
bilitation. In fact, it was almost a week before Decker was
himself again.
Not all mediums, however, are as fortunate as Decker
is,
in
being protected by guides of such extraordinary ability
and understanding. Otherwise this young man's experience
might have resulted much more seriously than
it
did.
FORCED RETIREMENT —FROM INTERFERENCE WITH MEDIUM
Madam d'Esperance, one of the greatest and most ver
satile mediums of the nineteenth century, spent the latter
part of her life
in
a
state of wretched ill health, brought
about
by
shock, sustained through an attempt at "exposure."
An injudicious researcher forcibly seized Madame
d'Esperance's little entity, Yolande, the charming spirit of
an Arab girl—almost as well developed as was Katie King.
In the last chapter of her very splendid autobiography,
"Spirit Land," Madame d'Esperance expresses clearly how
sensitives may suffer from the attacks of the ignorant. She
warns us that: "They who come after me may perchance
suffer as
I
have done through ignorance of God's laws. Yet
the world
is
wiser than
it
was, and
it
may be that they who
take up the work
in
the next generation will not have to
fight, as
I
did, the narrow bigotry and harsh judgments of
the 'unco' guid'."
Harry Boddinton, writing
in
the London, England
"Psychic News" gives us
in
some detail an account of this
experience. He says: "On one occasion Madame d'Es
perance told me she felt someone grab at the drapery that
was forming, and continues, 'At first
I
did not understand
it,
but as the sensations of being drawn downward con
tinued,
it
flashed across me that
a
spirit had materialized
behind me and at that moment someone had grasped
it
and
was drawing
it
from the cabinet.
" 'In horror
I
cried to my friend (her hostess) who was
sitting beside me, that someone had grasped the form, but
[163]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
she only moaned and leaned heavily against me. In an in
stant all was confusion. I angrily ordered the delinquent
to loose his hold of the white drapery, but it was not till
the order was repeated with a threat from the others that
he obeyed.
" 'Order was restored and the meeting brought to a close.
My friend was taken to her room, which she was scarcely
ever able to leave again, until the welcome end came and
she was relieved from her sufferings, not the least of which
lay in the knowledge that they had been caused by the act
of her own son.'
"
It may be of some interest to state here that Madame
d'Esperance possessed the same encyclopedic gift of knowl
edge displayed by May Vanderbilt Pepper.
In fact, one phase of her mediumship was even more
astounding than that of Mrs. Pepper. For while she readily
answered, by automatic writing, questions dealing with
almost every branch of science or literature, many of her
answers were written out in beautiful German and scholarly
Latin, languages concerning which Madame d'Esperance
had no knowledge whatsoever.
Also, when she gave her demonstrations in materialism
she would frequently sit outside the cabinet, in complete
control of all her faculties —just as did Dr. Robert Moore,
whose work I eulogized in a former chapter. In this way
she could clearly see the spirits that had been built up, in
part, from her own ectoplasm.
The little Arab girl, who was the innocent cause of
shock sustained by Madame d'Esperance, together with her
subsequent illness and forced retirement, was a truly lovely
spirit—judging from the photographs taken of her.
Madame d'Esperance describes her in this way: "Her
thin draperies allowed the rich olive of her neck, shoulders,
arms and ankles to be plainly visible. The long black wav
ing hair hung over her shoulders to below her waist and
was confined by a small turban-shaped head-dress. Her
[164]
MANHANDLING THE MEDIUM
features were small, straight and piquant; the eyes were
dark, large and lively; her every movement was as full of
grace as those of a young child, or, as it struck me then
when I saw her standing half shyly, half boldly, between
the curtains, like a young roe-deer."
LOSS OF WEIGHT BY MEDIUMS DURING
MATERIALIZATION PHENOMENA
As another evidence of the formidableness of the huge
masses of ectoplasm sometimes extruded from the body of
the medium, consider the experiment's made by Dr. W. J.
Crawford, Extra-Mural Lecturer in Mechanical Engineer
ing at Queen's University, Belfast.
Dr. Crawford conducted an extensive series of ex
periments from 19 14 to 1920 with the medium, Kathleen
Goligher. The results of his painstaking work are incor
porated in three books: "The Reality of Psychic Phe
nomenon," "Experiments in Psychic Science" and "The Psy
chic Structures at the Goligher Circle." These books have
probably done as much as anything ever written in helping
to establish psychic science as a science.
Crawford paid particular attention to the ratio of loss
in the weight of the medium, and the corresponding gain
in weight of the ectoplasmic entity that had been developed.
Dr. Crawford found that the medium usually lost from
ten to fifteen pounds during a sitting, which weight was
immediately restored to her when the ectoplasm had re
tracted.
On one occasion the loss of fifty-two pounds was re
corded on the auto-registering scales.
However, in the experiments with Horatio Eddy, re
corded by Colonel Olcott, one of the materialized entities,
an Indian squaw, by the name of Honto —was weighed four
times. These four different weights registered eighty-eight,
fifty-eight, fifty-eight and sixty-five pounds—and all during
the same evening.
[165]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Honto, when measured by Colonel Olcott, proved to be
five feet three inches in height, and would ordinarily be ex
pected to weigh in the neighborhood of one hundred and
thirty pounds.
I emphasize these facts in order to impress upon the
reader the serious danger of catapulting even a considerable
fraction of such masses of ectoplasm back into the body of
a medium, by dragging at a trumpet or snatching it out of
a spirit's hand, by seizing and attempting to hold any of the
entities materialized, or by suddenly flashing a light into
the room.
When the ectoplasm, disturbed by these drastic actions,
flies back into the body of the medium and impinges on the
mucous surfaces from whence it has its egress, the result
may be a severe hemorrhage, profound shock, or even such
disturbances in the nervous equilibrium as may bring about
life-long invalidism, as it did in the case of Madam
d'Esperance.
HOW ARE WE TO PREVENT FRAUDS WITHOUT
INJURING THE MEDIUM?
Granting then that any radical interference with the
orderly processes by which physical phenomena are pro
duced may cause serious injury to a medium, what should be
our attitude respecting his concededly supernormal ac
tivities ?
Obviously, we cannot insult our own intelligence by the
exhibition of stupid gullibility, and accept as true, phe
nomena that almost make us doubt the evidences of our
own senses.
A person would be unfair to himself, and equally unfair
to the medium, who would not insist on some adequate con
trol of this medium during his seances. Or demand from
him some authentic record of past demonstrations, done in
the presence of competent observers, and under strict test
conditions.
[166]
MANHANDLING THE MEDIUM
However, when a medium like "Margery" is searched
by a physician, fastened in a box or crate, with only her
head and arms protruding—both her hands being held se
curely—and then her brother Walter, in spirit life, whistles,
jokes with the professors and grave and reverend seignors
present, in direct voice, and produces his well-known demon
strations in telekineses, any person of ordinary intelligence
and only the usual amount of obstinacy should admit that
these demonstrations are not produced by legerdermain.
When Frank Decker is stripped naked and, in the pres
ence of members of a branch of the New York Society for
Psychical Research, nailed in a box, with only his head pro
truding—or else sealed in a heavy, canvas mail-sack, head
and all—and nevertheless levitates several trumpets simul
taneously, produces two or three voices—either direct or
through the trumpet —and develops or helps to bring about,
physical phenomena of an astounding character, there can
be no doubt as to the ability and the sincerity of such a
medium.
When Schrenck-Notzing or Professor Charles Richet —
working at different times and places —bring the medium
Eva C, into their laboratories naked, or else previously
stripped, searched and clad in a skimpy garment belonging
to one of the ladies present—and yet are privileged to cut
a lock of luxuriant hair from different female entities, ma
terialized in their presence by Eva C, there can be no ques
tion of honesty and factual evidence.
And so with thousands of similar experiences, equally
well attested and equally well controlled —experiences which
have converted millions to an acceptance of the funda
mentals of spiritism. And which have caused Dr. Hans
Driesch, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Leip
zig, during the course of a lecture at London University in
1924, to say "The actuality of psychical phenomena is
doubted today only by the most incurable dogmatist."
Granting that the medium has established credibility, he
[167]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
should be given a "sporting chance" to do his best —without
let or hinderance.
Those mediums who have not established a reputation
for honesty and credibility should be fastened, hand and
foot, to a comfortable chair — preferably with adhesive.
For it is just a bit difficult for the medium to untie a two-
inch strip of adhesive tape with his teeth, and then after
he is through hoodwinking and bamboozling the sitters,
fasten it in its original position again on wrists and ankles.
And also, while we are about it we might fasten a strip
of adhesive over the medium's mouth, in order to silence
any contention that two or three voices, talking or singing
together —perhaps in some language utterly unknown to the
medium—could emanate from some chronic attack of ven
triloquism afflicting the psychic.
It would seem that to demand more than this from a
medium would have no greater justification than to demand
that all priests should be obliged to say mass for the repose
of the soul, or administer the last sacrament, while stand
ing on their heads.
Or that all judges should render decisions in an impro
vised recitative and aria, while accompanying themselves
on a harp. Or that all investigators should eat their meals
while thumbing their nose with the right thumb and a lot of
wriggling fingers.
In any event, the point to be emphasized is that, when
we presume upon the courtesy and kindness of our spirit
friends, we should conform to the requirements laid down
by them.
And we should carry with us into the seance room that
most human and universal of all admonitions, "Therefore
all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you,
do ye even so to them : for this is the law and the prophets."
[168]
Chapter XVI
WHY CAN'T I RECEIVE MESSAGES MYSELF?
lHE question is often raised, "Why can't I receive mes-
A sages from my loved ones myself? Why do I have
to go to a medium, who doesn't know my dear ones, nor
care a rap about what they mean to me? It seems that if
they could come to any one in the world they would come
There are two answers to this question. The first an
swer is another question. The question is why can't you
communicate directly with those you wish to address, and
dispense with such stupid circumlocutory mediums as the
mail, telephone or wireless telephone, telegraph, radio,
heliograph, drum or flag signaling, semaphore, the deaf
and dumb alphabet and Braile system, in order to com
municate with one another?
The second answer is you can communicate directly with
your loved ones. That
is,
you can,
if
you will equip your
self to receive these communications. And
if
you happen
to be
a
medium, even though an underdeveloped one. But
remember that true mediums are born, not made. And that
very few persons—perhaps not more than one in one
hundred thousand —has real mediumistic ability.
These relatively few individuals may be trained or
developed for mediumship. Yet
if
they lack the innate
mediumistic quality, they might try as well to grow another
pair of ears as to grow into mediumship stature.
However, each of us
is
psychic, even though very few of
us are mediums. And as psychics we can all develop spirit
ual faculties, by using the methods proven most effective.
to me.
[169]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
These psychic powers are inborn —common to every man,
woman or child of normal mental development. Under
certain conditions they can be developed so that we can hear
clairaudiently, see claivoyantly, and feel clairsentiently.
And right here we might pause to observe that a very
considerable percentage of those who claim to be mediums,
and who are generally recognized as mediums, have no
mediumistic power whatsoever.
They are merely psychics. But they enter no trance
condition, nor are they controlled by any intelligence outside
of their own psyche.
Yet many of these psychics do quite remarkable work
at times. However, in the main, this is done by tapping the
reservoir of the subconscious, by telepathy, by highly de
veloped intuition, and by employing a lot of good common
horse sense and a well-rounded knowledge of human psy
chology.
Obviously, the work of these psychics does not neces
sarily prove survival of personal consciousness, nor the
ability of the discarnate spirit to communicate with those on
this plane.
MEDIUMISTIC DEVELOPMENT
As a rule, the great majority of well qualified mediums
have had to "sit" for a long period of years, and sometimes
give up many hours of time each day, before they came into
their full power. Indeed, many mediums have found it
necessary to continue their development, even after they
have gained national recognition.
Jim Riley, to whom I have several times referred as
the greatest of all materializing mediums, sat across the
table from his patient wife for almost six months before he
and his wife ever got even the slightest encouragement from
the "other side." Yet Riley developed an absolutely spec
tacular faculty for turning ectoplasm into a startling simul
acrum of solid flesh. And for bringing to a thrilling
[170]
WHY CAN'T I RECEIVE MESSAGES MYSELF?
semblance of life those long dead and gone —who greeted,
caressed and fraternized with loved ones and friends who
knew them in their earth life.
Dr. John Myers —photographer of "spirits extras" —
hadn't the slightest idea he was a medium until he went, one
evening to a spiritualistic meeting, at which the medium was
reputedly the most competent spirit photographer in Eng
land —if not on the Continent. This medium asked Dr.
Myers to sit with a certain group. It was then Myers dis
covered that he also was gifted with a phase of mediumship,
through the aid of which he was able to impress upon a
photographic plate, never before exposed, the faces of
spirits, as well as the photograph of the one sitting.
Nevertheless, Dr. Myers found it necessary to sit pa
tiently for several months, in order to develop the medium-
istic power. It was well worth while, however. For today
Myers is considered the world's greatest photographer of
spirits —giving up his time, his energy, his very home and
home-life —which was, next to his dear wife and daughter
the most precious thing on earth to him—in order to pro
gress the cause of spiritism.
USE CARE IN CONTACTING THE OTHER WORLD
However, if you really desire to become a medium—
granting that you possess mediumistic potentialities —you
must approach this goal in the proper frame of mind. Re
member, you are entering a field hitherto unexplored by
your earthy senses. And in so doing you must become sub
ject to its laws.
You must go as a suppliant —with humility and love—
not as a conqueror, demanding proof. You must forget
yourself, and seek to contact only with the best. And right
here, we might emphasize that while "home development,"
or "sitting alone," have frequently brought about aston
ishingly satisfactory results, you may be taking a foolhardy
risk in throwing the doors of your consciousness wide open
[171]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
to any disembodied intelligence who may chance to be at
tracted by your invitation to come in and make himself at
home. And whom you may find it much easier to attract
than to get rid of.
Unless you are certain that you are protected by guides
who will see to it that no interloper harms you—or obsesses
you—you had better not hang out the "welcome sign" to
every ghostly thug and gangster who may drift into your
psychic aura.
If you wish to develop mediumistic powers you had
better sit with a medium, in his developing class, where
guides of intelligence and power may guard the portals of
your psychic chambers, and keep poltergeists and mischief-
making spirits at a distance.
These are a few of the things we must learn when we
start on the path of mediumistic development. Then,
when the intelligences on the the next plane find that we are
truly and duly prepared, worthy and well qualified, we may
communicate directly with those in the other world.
Until that time, however, we must be content to find a
good medium, and talk to our loved ones through him or
her, just as we would use the telephone, telegraph, radio or
postal service in order to communicate with these same
good people, were they still on the earth plane.
[172]
Chapter XVII
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
TO
the average person—unused to reasoning from cause
to effect—it seems utterly fantastic and almost un
believable that churches throughout the world —particularly
the Christian church, which teaches immortality—should
harbor such implacable enmity toward spiritism —which
proves immortality.
The mythical Man From Mars, if told of the stupid
persecution and unreasoning hatred practiced by bigoted
enemies of spiritism, would probably laugh the buttons off
his vest. Or else he might burst into tears of pity, to think
that, in a world in which philosophy had long since out
grown its swaddling clothes, such Mad Hatter antics could
exist.
Examined superficially, it would seem there could be no
possible cause for the antagonism against spiritism, exhibited
by the established church of any religion that taught there
is a God and a future life.
Indeed, it would seem logical that the only people who
could be expected to hate spiritualists should be the ma
terialists and the atheists. And possibly those who might
be ardent proselytors for agnosticism, as I myself was for
many years.
Logically, it should be only disbelievers who might be
entitled to persecute spiritists, fine their mediums, or throw
them into jail, ridicule those who profess belief in the con
tinuity of life after death and communication with the
discarnate. Or who might attempt to hammer their con
victions through the thick skulls and into the ossified brains
[173]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
of those too stupid, too prejudiced or too feeble-minded to
see the truth. Or to recognize it if they could see it.
"proof strong as holy writ"
Yet it is not the materialist, the atheist, the infidel or
the agnostic who berates spiritism, who anathemizes
it,
who
passes laws that foster bootlegging of what should be the
most freely given knowledge in all this world —definite
proof
of
a
hereafter.
It
is
not the infidel, the god-scoffer, who forces millions
to conceal their convictions, and make them almost ashamed
to acknowledge their belief
in
a proved hereafter —not
a
hereafter taken on faith. Or on the word of priest, minister,
rabbi, bonze, muezzin or guru—who has no more real
knowledge of the hereafter, and our status
in
the hereafter,
than
I
have of Babylonian heiroglyphics or stellar as
tronomy.
It
is
not the atheist who pooh-poohs proof, "strong as
Holy Writ,"—garnered
by
the serious labors of thousands
of competent investigators.
It
is
not the infidel who points
the finger of ridicule at Flammarion, Lodge or Lombroso.
It
is
not the agnostic who cackles derisively at Crawford,
Schrenck-Notzing, Crooks or Conan Doyle.
It
is
the priest, the minister, the holy man of almost
every well-established religion—and of every hair-splitting
denomination within these religious organizations.
The very men who should be most interested
in
finding
out all they possibly can about the future life and pro
claiming these truths from the house tops, who are most
anxious to stifle and strangle spiritualism, its facts, and its
proven revelations —the very men who profess to teach the
Law—handed down
by
two spirits — Moses and Elias —to
a
man, Jesus
—stoop to any lie, any deception, any quibbling
or equivocation,
in
order to discredit the truths that come to
spiritists, direct from those who, of all the people in the
[174]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
universe, are the best qualified to know the truth — the spirits
themselves.
THE PROSTITUTION OF SPIRITUAL TRUTH
However, it would seem that some of the fulminations
of the religious fanatics are self-condemned, by their own
insulting diatribes. For instance, one Father Bernard
Vaughn says :
"To my thinking, one reason above others for not
entering into spiritualism and practising
it,
for not attempt
ing to stretch the thin veil dividing this side from that,
is
the fact that
a
scientific man like Sir Oliver Lodge should
be bamboozled by spirits travestying and personifying the
human soul gone under. Do you know, my brethren,
I
have
just as much right for saying that the trance communicators
and controllers and spirits that come and rap out nonsense
and tap balderdash and show themselves
in
vision —
I
have
quite as much right and reason for saying they are Satanic
spirits as he for calling them human souls."
The Catholic Church bans the reading of all spiritua
listic literature or books dealing with psychic phenomena.
Rarely does anyone ever see
a
priest or
a
bishop in
a
spiritualistic seance —unless perchance he
is
adequately dis
guised.
So the fulminations of these zealous morons proceed
from that "plentiful lack of wit," of which Shakespeare
spoke. For how can one deliver any intelligent opinion on
a
matter he avowedly has never studied or investigated?
Lord Alfred Douglas once wrote
a
letter to the Sunday
Times
in
which he said
:
"As
a
Catholic
I
am forbidden to
take part
in
a
spiritual seance under pain of mortal sin, nor
have
I
the least temptation to do so. But before
I
became
a
Catholic,
I
occasionally dabbled
in
Spiritualism, and my
own experiences were quite enough to convince me that the
phenomena are sometimes perfectly genuine, and perfectly
unaccountable except on
a
supernatural basis.
[175]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"The Catholic Church allows that it is perfectly possible
to obtain supernatural results at spiritualistic seances. It
does not deny the phenomena. But it utterly denies that
the 'spirits' which give communications are the souls of de
parted mortals. The phenomena of Spiritualism are, the
Church teaches, produced by devils and evil spirits. Their
object is to deceive and betray the human race. Continual
indulgence in Spiritualism leads to madness, folly and des
pair, and the loss of real faith."
THE LAMENTABLE RESULTS OF DROPPING AN INFANT
ON ITS HEAD
When I read stuff of this nature I am overwhelmed by
a mingled feeling of pity and contempt for the one making
the statement. It would seem impossible, in this 20th cen
tury, that such colossal ignorance could exist. As to the
charge that these phenomena are produced and that these
messages are brought by devils and evil spirits, I want to
say right here that whoever makes this statement is an
ignoramus, undoubtedly suffering from some depression of
the tables of the skull, perhaps sustained during infancy,
when his nurse inadvertently dropped him on his head.
When anyone asserts that my two dear brothers and my
father—who bring me messages of tender affection and sage
council from time to time—and my good mother —as sweet
a saint as ever lived —are devils from hell, I tell him he lies
in his false throat and the truth is not in him.
And as for the "nonsense and the balderdash" these
dear spirits bring, some of the finest ethics I have ever
heard, some of the loftiest philosophy of life—relating to
both here and the hereafter —have emanated from these
same "Satanic spirits."
BELCHERS IN THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND ALSO
As proof that the Holy Catholic Church has no mon
opoly in bigotry and ignorance and that belching at spirit
[176]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
ualism is a more or less universal accomplishment, consider
the Rev. L. A. Ewart, Vicar of Earls Barton, near North
ampton, England.
We are told by the "Psychic News" —perhaps the most
important spiritistic newspaper in the world —that, preach
ing from the text in Deuteronomy which refers to wizards
and necromaneers, Ewart made these amazing statements:
"Spiritualism takes advantage of those who are weak
and morbid with trouble.
"There is not a lunatic asylum in the world where there
are not torn and bleeding victims of Spiritualism. If you
put your hand into this evil influence it will lead you down
to darkness—eternal darkness—where Spiritualism holds an
everlasting seance."
There were other statements in a similar strain. Ewart's
hearers were told, "All the wonderful things performed
by Spiritualism have been performed by sleight of hand and
rank deception."
Then the parson went so far as to say that he "never
knew a confirmed Spiritualist who had a healthy nervous
organization," and added that "Spiritualism is a marital and
social curse."
The Editor of the "Psychic News" comments on this
manifestation of an "antic disposition" in the following
vigorous pungent manner:
"The Rev. L. A. Ewart," he says, "is paid a salary by
the Church in order that he should minister to the spiritual
needs of his parish. He is abusing his pulpit and his Church
by the falsehoods he has uttered in a building which should
be used to lead people to an understanding of spiritual
things.
"If he believes what he said, then his ignorance is so
appalling that he is not fit to be a clergyman of the Church
of England. If he does not believe what he said then he is
guilty of infamous conduct.
"He could not substantiate any one of the statements
[177]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
he made. His religious teachings are founded upon the
spirit return of Jesus of Nazareth and the psychic happen
ings that centered around him in Palestine two thousand
years ago.
"His criticisms of Spiritualism, if they were true, are
equally applicable to the psychic happenings of the early
Christian Church.
"Whilst the Vicar of Earls Barton could not produce
one case of lunacy attributable to Spiritualism alone, it
would not be difficult to produce cases of scores of lunatics
incarcerated in asylums through religious mania.
"The Rev. L. A. Ewart is a disgrace to the church
which he professes to serve. At the present time in Lon
don, a group of Church of England clergymen are holding
services in a church, addresses being given by a medium in
a trance. This fact alone is a complete answer to the Rev.
L. A. Ewart."
ENCOURAGE THE PIONEERING CLERGYMEN
It is gratifying to know that not all Church of England
clergymen are suffering from petrification of the brain and
ossification of the heart. In fact, these particular clergy
men are pioneering a movement that might well be adopted
by Rev. John Haynes Holmes, and others among liberal
religious teachers in this country.
Such a movement, conducted on a nation-wide scale,
might contribute in no small measure to the rescue of the
church from its present spiritual degradation.
It might drag organized religion from its mire-bed of
worldliness and materiality, and inject a little humanity and
decency into its collapsed arteries.
It might resuscitate some of the living spirit of the
ancient days and purge away what Conan Doyle calls a "lip
service and an external reverence to an outworn system
which has been so tangled up with incredible theologies that
the honest mind is nauseated at the thought of it."
[178]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
OUR OWN PROTESTANTS STAND CHEEK BY JOWL WITH
CATHOLICS AND CHURCH OF ENGLANDERS
While we are distributing cow-itch and boquets of
poison ivy to the Catholic clergy and the Church of England
gentry, let us not overlook the fact that our Protestant
divines —with relatively few exceptions—are no less vitriolic
and vituperative against the spiritists than are the Catholics
and the Episcopalians. For instance, in "The Christian"
we find this wildeyed piece of rhetoric:
"Granting for the sake of argument, that some of the
alleged Spiritualistic phenomena are genuine, would we
really wish to subject our holy dead to the will and whim of
a medium, and the clumsy and undignified expedient of
'table-turning'? Would we not rather agree with Joseph
Conrad that it is intolerable to suppose that the august dead
are at the mercy of the incantations of Eusapia Palladino
or Mrs. Piper?"
Commenting on this remarkable lucubration, J. Arthur
Hill, in his splendidly rounded work "Spirtualism —Its
History, Phenomena and Doctrine" —a book, by the way,
that should be carefully read by every honest-minded man
and woman says :
"We would, indeed; and we do not suppose anything
of the kind; nor does any Spiritualist known to me.
"Spiritualists make no claim to be able to 'call up' any
particular spirit. They seek to give good conditions, the
chief of which is a quiet passivity and harmony, and leave
the initiative to those on the other side. However greatly we
may differ from the Spiritualists, no antagonist who has
investigated or even read in the most elementary way can
make such absurd statements about the dead being liable to
'the will and whim of a medium' or 'at the mercy of the
incantations of Eusapia Palladino or Mrs. Piper.' Spirit
ualists know well enough, and say so continually, that they
have to take what comes. Results cannot be commanded.
Such criticism as the foregoing almost makes one despair.
[179]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Instructive criticism is always welcome, and there are many
points at which Spiritualism is open to attack; but this
necromantic charge is sheer, unqualified, abysmal ignorance,
and it is astonishing and depressing to find people in re
sponsible positions exerting their influence to the utmost of
their power in a definite direction, on a subject which they
obviously know nothing about."
Mr. Hill has here made a clear and concise statement of
just what a medium can do —and just what he cannot do.
To one who knows spiritualism, its literature and its
phenomena it seems curious, not to say fantastic, to note
that, respecting the authenticity of message bearing, or tele
kinesis, levitation, materialization, or psychometry, the
most positive denunciation and the most jocose belly-laughs
usually proceed from those who admittedly have never read
a book on the subject, or attended a single spiritualistic
seance.
THE UNBELIEVABLE EFFRONTERY OF
RELIGIOUS INQUISITORS
However, there is something of even deeper and more
fundamental importance than these slight deviations from
normal mental functioning that radiates from denouncing
divines and persecuting priests.
And this is the fact that the entire structure of Chris
tianity is built upon transfiguration, spirit communication,
mediumship of an almost transcendal order, and psychic
phenomena of every conceivable variety.
How it is possible that any man of even a thirteen year
old intelligence, or whose I.Q. averages fifty per cent or
better, could read the Bible and the works of the early
Fathers —in which there are upwards of four hundred direct
references to phenomena, known and understood by every
spiritist —and denounce spiritualism?
How can any man, who doesn't have to move his lips
while reading, and who can understand the meaning of the
[180]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
words he reads, conspire to punish those whose credo con
sists in the acceptance of the very facts that are supposed
to cornerstone his faith?
I should like, were it possible, to ask every priest and
minister in Christiandom, and all who profess to believe in
Christ and his teachings, to read their Bible, and the classi
cal religious works of St. Augustine, St. Clement of Alex
andria, Hermas, Origen, Irenaeus, Tertullian, Cleophas and
others.
Then I would ask them "What do you suppose Irenaeus
meant when he wrote : "We hear of many brethren in the
Church possessing prophetic" (i.e., mediumistic) "gifts, and
speaking through the spirit in all kinds of tongues and bring
ing to light for the general advantage the hidden things of
men, and setting forth the mysteries of God."
No words could more adequately describe the functions
of a medium of a certain type.
Tertullian tells us in his "De Anima" : "We have today
among us a sister who has received gifts on the nature of
revelations which she undergoes in spirit in the church amid
the rites of the Lord's Day, falling into ecstasy. She con
verses with angels (advanced spirits) sees and hears mys
teries, and reads the hearts of certain people and brings
healings to those who ask. 'Among other things,' she said,
'a soul was shown to me in bodily form, and it seemed
to be a spirit, but not empty nor a thing of vacuity. On the
contrary, it seemed as if it might be touched, soft, lucid, or
the colour of air, and of the human form in every detail'."
Do you honestly believe that this great teacher was suf
fering from paresis, or from some hallucinatory disorder
when he wrote this simple and direct account of what every
spiritist recognizes as trance mediumship, as healing power,
as etherialization—or perhaps partial materialization?
[181]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
THE MEDIUMS HIP OF CHRIST
Read St. Matthew, Chapter 17. Then, if you believe
this record is authentic—ask yourself "What form of in
sanity am I suffering from that makes me cling to Christ
and his teachings, and yet persecute and revile the only
people in the world who really accept these teachings as
true?
Here are the first thirteen verses :
1. And after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James and
John his brother, and bringeth them up into a high mountain
apart,
2. And was transfigured before them; and his face did
shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.
3. And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and
Elias talking with him.
4. Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord,
it is good for us to be here : if thou wilt, let us make here
three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and
one for Elias.
5. While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud over
shadowed them : and behold a voice out of the cloud, which
said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased;
hear ye him.
6. And when the disciples heard
it,
they fell on their
face, and were sore afraid.
7.
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise
and be not afraid.
8.
And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no
man, save Jesus only.
9.
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus
charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the
Son of man be risen again from the dead.
10. And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then
say the scribes that Elias must first come.
[182]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
11. And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias
truly shall first come, and restore all things.
12. But I say unto you, that Elias is come already,
and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsover
they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of
them.
13. Then the disciples understood that he spake unto
them of John the Baptist.
THE MEANING OF THESE STATEMENTS
Do you realize that these inspired words describe the
transfiguration of a Master Medium —a perfect instrument,
through whom Moses and Elias were able to materialize,
and through whom these High Intelligences were able to
communicate, acting as messengers from the great Central
Force itself?
Do you know that verse 8 "And when they had lifted
up their eyes they saw no man, save Jesus only" meant that
Moses and Elias had delivered their message, and then had
dematerialized?
Do you know that casting out of devils, healing the sick
and the halt, walking on the water (levitation) prophecy
and divination, the "gift of tongues" (possessed by many
famous mediums) and many of the miracles performed by
the Christ have been done times innumerable by psychics,
the world over?
Do you know that the resurrection of Jesus was nothing
more or less than the full materialization of his spirit,
clothed temporarily in the flesh, and in the habilaments this
same spirit wore in life?
And that when St. John said "This is now the third
time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after he was
risen from the dead," St. John meant that he had thrice
been blessed by contact with the materialized form of Jesus
[183]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
IS THE SPIRITUALISTIC BASIS OF CHRISTIANITY LOST
—OR DEAD?
Now, I would like to ask those who preach Christ, and
Him risen, who believe that those who give account of
Christ's ministry on earth were truthful men, why they be
lieve that Christ—and at least a score of other high spirits,
mentioned in the Bible and in the books of the "Fathers"
—could materialize and communicate with those in the flesh,
and at the same time deny that Jim Riley, May Vanderbilt
Pepper, Bert Wells, Patsy, Silver Bell, Dr. Banks, John
Benton, Katie King, or my two brothers, and my mother
and father cannot, and never have done likewise?
By what right do they assume to say that the prophecies
of Christ and the Biblical prophets are right and justifiable,
while at the same time they provide sneaking spies to catch,
and ignorant judges to punish mediums who prophesy in
exactly the same manner today?
Why should we be asked to accept as true the many
prophesies found in the Bible, as well as in other religious
and secular works—down to Emanuel Swedenborg's time—
and deem it a crime for Pearl Young, Felicia Crossley or
Ethel Post's guides to prognosticate events, sometimes quite
as important as many happeneings predicted by the seers of
bygone ages ?
DO UNTO OTHERS AS YOU WOULD BE DONE BY
I submit that this is not fair treatment. It is not even
intelligent treatment. For spiritism and its teachings may
be able to do far more for humanity than humanity can
ever do for spiritism. Those on the other side go right
on with their spiritual evolution, whether we curse them or
caress them.
I am thoroughly aware of the fact that within the ranks
of the spiritualists, there are thousands of frauds and
fakirs. This is deplorable. It is more —it is damnable.
It is an outrage against every law of decency and humanity.
[184]
BLUNDERING BIGOTRY
The prostitute and the gangster are infinitely more to be
respected than is the mercenary wretch who exacts a fee for
a parcel of lies, or a slatternly piece of slight of hand.
These quacks should be thrown into jail and kept there,
with perhaps an occasional bastinado, as a reminder of the
detestation felt for them by all decent people.
The arrant knavery of such human scum exercises a
potent influence in retarding the general acceptance of the
truth of spiritualistic philosophy.
Ye, the fact that there is a large percentage of quacks
among professional spiritualists is no reason for putting all
of them in the class of moral lepers, to be made the objects
of ignorant or malicious police persecution.
As I have before stated, there is a large percentage of
quackery in the medical, the ministerial and in the legal
profession also. Yet, no effort is made to put these thugs
and thieves in the Bastile, wherever and whenever found.
We bespeak for spiritism a free right to investigate.
Psychical research is as scientific as biology, quite as jus
tifiable, and infinitely more important. "The least justifiable
attitude," says Sir Oliver Lodge, "is that which holds that
there are certain departments of truth in the universe which
it is not lawful to investigate."
"Prove all things and hold fast to that which is true,"
said the wise man of old. This advice is just as practical
today as it was in the days of the patriarchs. And it always
will be.
[185]
Chapter XVIII
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
THE
inherent enmity between the wolf and the dog is
proverbial. They may, on occasion, lie down to
gether. But this is usually when one or the other of the
animals is dead.
A somewhat similar enmity exists between magicians
and spiritualists, except that, in these instances, the enmity
usually exists only on the part of the magicians.
This touching forbearence, however, may be due to the
fact that spiritualists have become so meek and lamb-like —
from repeated cuffings and drubbings, administered by the
magicians —that many of them seem to be suffering from a
well-developed case of masochism.
For rarely or never do they protest, or make any
attempt to defend themselves from the blatant charges
made by magicians, to the effect that most of them are
frauds, liars, cheats and blacklegs, while the balance are
merely dumbells and nitwits.
The sadistic treatment of mediums by magicians seems
to have originated with J. M. Maskelyne, celebrated Eng
lish conjurer, whose vituperative denunciation of the Daven
port brothers I have mentioned in another chapter.
This lip-lashing, however, began only after Maskelyne
had found that the phenomena produced by these re
markable mediums made his work seem trivial and childish.
And after he learned that the public exhibitions of the
Davenports affected the reputation of magicians generally,
in addition to drastically curtailing their earning powers.
[186]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
Of course, Maskelyne's initial eulogy of the Davenports
—in admitting that "they produce really wonderful feats,"
was promptly forgotten when magician's madness developed
in him.
So, like many others among his eel-like and slippery
brethren, Maskelyne turned a complete back-somersault,
and lied like the prestidigitating Pierriot he was.
The pernicious example, instigated by Maskelyne has,
with some splendid and upstanding exceptions, been adopted
by magicians ever since his time.
HOW JOSEPH DUNNINGER PLAYS JACK-THE-GIANT-KILLER
Perhaps the most riotously active among medium-
manglers of this day and age is Joseph Dunninger, on whose
shoulders the mantle of Houdini is draped so artistically as
to leave nothing but Dunninger's ears sticking out.
It needs but the barest mention of anything smacking of
sympathy for psychic phenomena and wham! Dunninger's
extraordinarily alert and agile publicity man lands him, with
all four feet, on page one of every newspaper this side of
Alaska.
Here the earnest and ambitious jongleur fulminates and
froths at the mouth, lashing the poor spiritists with the
scorpion scourge of scorn. Occasionally he winds up his
Brobdignagian bluff by offering to present ten thousand dol
lars to any spiritist who can produce phenomena that he
cannot duplicate while standing on his head, and with one
hand tied behind his back.
He bleats with sympathy for Crooks, Lombroso, Lodge,
Flammarion, Conan Doyle, and the hundreds of physicists,
doctors and scientists, all over the civilized world who have
permitted themselves to be befuddled and bamboozled by
tricky scheming spiritists for the past ninety years.
The daughty Duninger can sing this song of hate, and
secure for himself advertising that would cost him a hund
red thousand dollars—if he had to pay for it at space rates.
[187]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Demon Duninger's diatribes are unanswerable. For
the lay newspapers —because of religious affiliations and
their ingrown policy of prejudice —print only Dunninger's
side of the story.
This is one important reason why spiritualists, generally,
have a well-developed inferiority complex. They have been
kicked around so long and so enthusiastically —and very
frequently by those who never have investigated a medium
of any standing, or read a really serious book on the sub
ject—that they take most of their meals from the mantle-
piece.
As I have stated before, just because a certain per
centage of those who call themselves "spiritualists" are
arrant knaves, sneak-thieves and liars, it doesn't follow that
all mediums fall into a like category. Any more than all
magicians should be classed as thimble-riggers and pick
pockets.
BUT YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE SOFTENING OF THE BRAIN
TO BELIEVE THIS
However, there is one piece of transcendentalism no
dead or living man has ever seen, detailed by Dunninger,
so that all who run may read.
In the New York Evening Journal Dunninger psy-
chologises an adolescent-looking interviewer and gives him
a post-hypnotic suggestion to write the following brilliant
statement : "Prior to the test the Wizard From The Bronx
(This is what the Journal interviewer dubs Dunninger) ex
amined the spiritualist's cabinet and detected a small knot
hole. So he coiled several feet of wire and concealed it in
the heel of his slipper. Wearing only a bathrobe —and the
slippers —he entered the cabinet, tossing the robe outside.
"When the room was darkened, Duninger simply took
the wire from the heel of his slipper, poked it through the
knothole and manipulated it around until he had hooked
the trumpets.
[188]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
"Then, lo and behold, the trumpets appeared to be float
ing in the air!
"It's easy when you know how —as Dunninger does."
CHALLENGING THE WIZARD OF THE BRONX
Now, I'd like to secure $100,000 of the same kind of
money Dunninger uses for betting purposes —and furnish
him with all the wire he can wrap around his neck —let alone
put "in the heel of his slipper"—and bet him that he can't
"poke this wire through a knothole in the pitch dark" and
manipulate it around, until he had hooked the trumpets.
I would be willing to triple this bet, and wager that the
"Wizard of the Bronx" could not sit, even in all his clothes
and a buffalo overcoat to boot, and with a whole bale of wire
for his armamentarium, do his "Lo and behold, the trumpets
appeared to be floating through the air" stuff.
Even if he were Buffalo Bill himself he couldn't do it.
For the trumpets are made of aluminum or other smooth
metal, tapering to a megaphone mouthpiece. They weigh
from eight to ten ounces apiece, and there are no hooks or
protuberances to which the most adept prestidigitator could
fasten even a sucker.
To believe that anyone could, in the pitch dark, with
"several feet of wire," perhaps as thick as the E string of
a violin, lasso two or three bulky trumpets —utterly lacking
in any means for attaching the thirty or forty feet of wire
needed for lifting purposes —and then "float the trumpets
in the air," one must be just a bit unusual. He must either
have softening of the brain, senile dementia with halluc
inations, or else he must be just a plain damn fool.
THE DECKER-DUNNINGER CONTROVERSY
On several occasions Dunninger has had some very
interesting sessions with Frank Decker, to whose phenomena
I have referred at considerable length in these pages.
[189]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
men in the air and hold them thus suspended, while one
might count a slow fifty. And I agree with Decker in this.
Here is another interesting example of how Dunninger
"crashes" the newspaper pages. I believe it is also from
the New York Evening Journal, but am not sure.
MAGICIAN SAYS EDITOR HAD GHOSTLESS ASCENT
Levitation of O'Neill Wasn't Supernatural, Dunninger
is Sure, and He Promises to Duplicate
Feat in Daylight
Joseph Dunninger, by profession a magician and by
inclination an exposer of so-called spirit phenomena, took
sharp issue recently with John J. O'Neill, science editor of
the Eagle, who published an account of how he was levi
tated, or lifted into the air, by a "ghost."
It wasn't a ghost that lifted O'Neill, said Dunninger.
It was human and perfectly natural agencies that did
it,
possibly aided by the workings of the O'Neill imagination
in
the dark. And just to prove
it,
he said, he would come
to the office of the Eagle and repeat the whole stunt—
guaranteeing not to use any ghostly device.
No Light—But No Shins!
The levitation, as reported
by
Mr. O'Neill, took place
at
a
seance
in
the darkened headquarters of the Spiritual
and Ethical Society, while
a
dozen persons sat on chairs
arranged
in
a
circle around him. He was raised about three
feet in the air and while thus suspended kicked back and
forth and was unable to locate any shins. Frank Decker
was the medium.
"John," said Dunninger, "is one of the finest boys
I
know, but
it
is
my opinion that he was deceived. Of course,
I
wasn't present, and
I
cannot tell you the mechanics of
a
performance
I
didn't see. But
I
don't believe he was lifted
by any supernatural forces.
[192]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
"It might have been the old air-plane game, with which
I have seen a 200-pound man lifted four or five feet in the
air, with the use of nothing but the finger tips. And stage
magicians have been doing levitating in the light for years.
At any rate, you get Decker there and I'll duplicate any
thing he does."
Mr. O'Neill said, however, that he was lifted and
dropped, and that no natural forces he could think of could
account for the experience. "It's certainly a phenomenon,"
he said, adding:
"I am frank to state I am unable to explain Decker's
phenomena on the basis of known facts, rules, principles of
procedure known to physics, mechanics, optics, physiology
or related sciences."
It may be of interest to note here, however, that the
levitation of a person from the floor, does not necessarily
prove spirit activities. It may prove only the activity of
certain psychic and magnetic powers, more or less developed
in all of us.
However, when one is lifted from the floor, as O'Neill
and I have been —and as scores of others attending Decker's
seances have been—by an entity who talks and walks, and
who lifts a two-hundred pound man from the floor and
holds him at arm's height —the lifting power is not psychic
force or animal magnetism. It is the work of a materialized
spirit.
If Dunninger wants to duplicate anything that Decker
does, let him materialize a spirit—preferably one that has
no shins to kick.
In this connection, as is almost needless to say, no fur
ther effort was made by Dunninger to show the Brooklyn
Eagle people just how this particular "trick" was done.
And for two very good reasons. First, Dunninger could
not duplicate this phenomenon; and second, because he had
again "gotten away with" another five thousand dollar piece
of publicity. And he is far too clever a showman to risk
[193]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
inevitable failure by attempting what he knows is to him
an impossible feat.
As an example of the fair play and decency any medium
might expect at the hands of the average magician read
this:
HOUDINI'S SPIRIT NOTE O.K.—BUT
INCOMPLETE
Message Received at Seance Failed to Carry Post
script—Dunninger Says Original Had Been
Moved In His Files
By John J. O'Neill
Science Editor of The "Eagle"
The mesage from the late Harry Houdini given by
Frank Decker, the medium, to Joseph Dunninger, the ma
gician, at the Crescent Athletic Club seance Friday night,
proved to be authentic, Mr. Dunninger stated yesterday,
after finally locating the original in his files. The message
as given, however was not complete and the original had
been misplaced in his files, he said.
The complete message was:
Little Rock, Dec. 14, 1923.
My dear Dunninger:
Will be back in New York for a few days.
Hurt my right leg. Am laying off. Regards.
Houdini
Don't know your address, as my address book
is in New York.
The part beyond Houdini's name was not given at the
seance. Dunninger said he had been unable to locate the
original message to verify the spirit version of it because it
had been removed from the position in his files where he
[194]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
placed it among Houdini's leters and had been returned to
a place between photographs.
LETTER WAS MOVED
"I do not know who misplaced the letter or why it
should have been moved, but some one besides myself has
handled it and was aware of its contents.
"I do not say or even suggest that Frank Decker han
dled
it,
but the fact remains that the knowledge of the con
tents of that letter was not exclusive with the so-called spirit
controls.
I
have no envelope for the letter and
I
do not
know how
I
received it.
It
may have been handed to me by
a
second person."
Frank Decker, when informed that Dunninger con
firmed the message, said, "I was sure the message was cor
rect as my spirit friends never deceive me. But
I
wasn't so
sure Dunninger would admit
it,
even
if
he did find the letter.
"I swear
I
never touched any of Mr. Dunninger's files
and
I
had nothing to do with any one who knows about
them" said Decker.
Knowing Decker, as
I
do, and knowing Dunninger by
his words and deeds, as
I
do,
I
would be willing to gamble
my thyroid and pituitary glands against
a
crocheting outfit
that Decker
is
telling the absolute, unvarnished truth.
NOTHING REMARKABLE ABOUT THE READING ANYHOW
Yet here we might pause for breath, and observe that
there
is
nothing
in
the reading by Decker of the only part
of Houdini's letter that contained any information of im
portance.
I
have heard many thousands of questions or messages
read, verbatim et literatim, and logical answers and advice
given, before the envelopes containing the questions or mes
sages were ever opened.
Indeed, only within the past few weeks
I
have heard
Felicie Crossley, famous California medium, read at least
[195]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
two score of such questions—and without making a single
error—as was evident when the envelopes were opened and
the questions read and verified by the writers.
And on evening last winter, I heard Arthur Ford—
greatest of all message bearers since the days of May
Vanderbilt Pepper —give first and last names of one hund
red and nineteen different persons—who had travelled
across with Charon, anywhere from two months to forty
years ago—identifying them in an absolutely evidential
manner. Even to their approximate height, the color of
their hair and eyes, and their appearance generally.
It might be well for some ambitious magician to prac
tice up on Arthur Ford's technique a little, so that he could
do it to the satisfaction of any competent group of psychic
investigators —if any such group ever became silly enough
to ask him to do this. It's really very simple. As Hamlet
has said, on another occasion,
" 'Tis as easy as lying."
HOUDINI A MALODOROUS MEDIUM
Houdini, the greatest magician of this last generation,
was great only in his professional work. In his persecution
of spiritualistic mediums he was exceedingly small and bru
tally unfair.
Perhaps the outstanding instance of this dishonesty
occurred in connection with his attempted expose of "Mar
gery." And the controversy between himself and Mr. J.
Malcolm Bird, Research Officer to the American Society for
Physical Research, which followed.
The account of this will be found in Mr. Bird's fas
cinating little book "Margery the Medium" (published by
Small, Maynard and Co.).
Here are a few excerpts from this well-considered work,
which seem to prove conclusively that Houdini was tarred
with the same inky brush that has besmirched so many other
magicians.
"I shall not comment extensively on Houdini's version
[196]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
of the Margery seance action, obtained in his presence. He
witnessed numerous manifestations for which he could offer
no other explanation than that I had done them. Inasmuch
as he would not grant their validity, he was forced to
advance this explanation.
"During the seance in which the bell-box rang, a photo
graph was made which showed the relative positions of all
hands and feet, the box, etc. ; as well as the proportions of
the box. When Houdini came to advance his elaborately
artificial explanation of how this ringing had been engin
eered, he found that the photograph did not fit in at all. So
he drew a little pen-and-ink sketch, altering the size and
position of the box and completely falsifying the record by
this means.
"I will not repeat here my account of the details of the
fraud which Houdini atempted against the medium on his
second visit. Suffice to say that somebody tampered with
the bell-box so that it required about six times the usual
pressure to ring it; and that somebody planted in the
medium's cage, a long jointed ruler with which it might have
been attempted to ring the bell. I charged Houdini with
these offenses, in print and to his face and he never offered
any defense. His own conduct of the seances was such as
to prevent any positive evidence from being obtained as to
who was actually guilty; but it was abundantly plain that
Margery could not be—she had no opportunity."
It was during this seance, as may be remembered, that
Walter, as soon as he had manifested, announced positively
that there would be no demonstration at that time.
He is reported to have said "Open the cabinet, and you
will find, in the corner of the box, a folding rule, slipped in
there by Houdini for the purpose of discrediting the
medium. Houdini will claim after the seance, that my sister
concealed this rule in her vagina. Whatever demonstrations
in telekineses may be produced Houdini will claim were
caused by the manipulation of this ruler."
. [197]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Then he added, addressing Houdini, "You get the hell
out of here. And don't ever come back again I"
Needless to say, the seance broke up in most admired
confusion. This, however, is only a characteristic trick,
common among the greater majority of magicians, who
will resort to any means whatsover, no matter how con-
temptable, in order to discredit a medium.
That Houdini learned the error of his ways shortly
after this deplorable episode has been told in some detail
by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in describing how the code
words were brought through Arthur Ford and his guide,
Fletcher, to Mrs. Houdini.
Conan Doyle concludes the account in these words:
"This man is coming now," said Fletcher, "the same man
who came the other night. He says that I am to say 'Hello,
Bess, my sweetheart!' He comes because he wants me to
repeat, the message, and finish it for you. He says that the
message is in code that you used in one of your secret mind-
reading acts. He wants you to tell him whether it is right
or not."
"Yes it is," said Mrs. Houdini tremulously.
"He smiles and says 'thank you' and that he can now
go on," said Fletcher. "He tells you that you are now to
take off your wedding ring, and tell them what Rosabelle
means."
Mrs. Houdini at once sang a little jingling love song
which centered upon the word Rosabelle.
"He says 'I thank you, darling'," said Fletcher. "And
he adds that the first time he heard you sing that was in the
first show you acted together years ago."
Mrs. Houdini agreed.
"Then he smiles and shows me a picture, and draws
aside a curtain and says 'I draw the curtain so'."
This appears to have been some part of their private
stage ritual, for the wife at once repeated, "Je tire la redeau
[198]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
comme ca." It was none the less very appropriate to that
curtain of death which he had just removed.
"And now he says that the nine words beside 'Rosabelle'
spell a word in our code, and that the final reading was
'Rosabelle, believe.'
"Is that right?" asked Fletcher. Mrs. Houdini burst
into tears. "Yes, it is right," she said.
Then Houdini wound up by a final confession of faith.
"Tell the whole world," he said, "that Harry Houdini
lives, and will prove it a thousand times more. I am break
ing through the chains now, and making my last escape.
Tell all those who lost faith because of my mistake, to lay
hold again of hope and to live with the knowledge that life
is continuous."
What have the Dunningers and others of their stalwart
clan to say to this statement from the great Houdini him
self? And what comment have they to make regarding the
gracious letter sent to the press by Mrs. Houdini, while the
dogs were still baying at the heels of Mr. Ford and his
gallant spirit friend, Fletcher?
MRS. HOUDINl'S PROOF OF SPIRITISM
Here is the gist of the letter:
"Dear Mr. Walter Winchell :
This letter is not for publicity. I do not need pub
licity. I want to let Houdini's old friends know that I did
not betray his trust.
I am writing you this letter personally because I
wish to tell you emphatically that I was no party to any
fraud.
Now regarding the seance. For two years I have
been praying to receive the message from my husband; for
two years every day I have received messages from all parts
of the world. Had I wanted a publicity stunt I no doubt
could have chosen any of these sensational messages. When
I repudiated these messages no one said a word, excepting
[199]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
the writers, who said I did not have the nerve to admit the
truth.
When the real message, The message that Houdini and
I agreed upon, came to me, and I accepted it as the truth,
I was greeted with jeers. Why? Those who denounced
the entire thing as a fraud claim that I had given Mr. Ar
thur Ford the message.
However, when any one accuses me of giving the words,
after my beloved husband and I labored so long to convince
ourselves of the truth of communication, then I will fight
and fight until the breath leaves my body.
I have gotten the message I have been waiting for
from my beloved—how, if not by spiritual aid, I do not
know. In conclusion, may I say that God and Houdini and
I know I did not betray my trust. For the rest of the world
I really ought not to care a hang, but somehow I do, there
fore this letter."
Sincerely yours,
Beatrice Houdini
a challenge to ambitious magicians
And while certain ambitious magicians are still func
tioning on all two cylinders it might be interesting to have
them duplicate the physical and psychic phenomena pro
duced by Frank Decker under conditions identical with those
in which Decker worked when Mr. C. Edward Davenport
wrote this statement.
"Mr. Decker tonight demonstrated his mediumship be
fore Miss Spencer, Mrs. Davenport, Mr. Dunninger—the
psychic investigator —and myself, at the home of Miss
Spencer. While partly controlled by Miss Spencer, and
Mr. Dunninger securely holding his arms and hands, the
trumpet levitated and delivered to me an independent voice,
which I recognized. Also the trumpet circled among us—
There were caresses and patting of hands and faces, also
[200]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
the slapping of backs by invisible forces, greatly impressing
us all."
C. Edward Davenport
It would be extremely interesting to know why the
blatant Dunninger did not denounce Decker on this occasion
—when he himself acted as chief control. Or why he didn't,
then and there, duplicate the phenomena, witnessed and
heard by this exceedingly intelligent group of people.
To me, the answer is very clear. First, Dunninger
knows that neither he, nor any other magician, can re
produce these phenomena. And second, he wouldn't dare
attempt his usual bluff and bluster with a really intelligent
group of sincere and honest investigators.
They might make public the abortive results of his
efforts and thereby slip a burr under the tail of his ruthless
and rapacious hobby horse.
THE MAN WHO DIDN'T WANT HIS DOG KICKED AROUND
To me, or to any of the really sensible and informed
people I know, this report seems a beautiful piece of
evidence.
"I have had readings from many mediums for more than
13 years. My nephew, William Ellsworth Dederick, was
usually mentioned as William. But I had always called
him Ellsworth. About two weeks ago I came to Mr.
Decker's circle, an absolute stranger. When a voice spoke
in front of me I said, "Is this for me?" It said, "Yes, it's
Ellsworth." As a test he said, "Do you remember what
I said to the man who was going to kick my dog? I said,
if you kick that dog I'll kick you." That is exactly what he
said. Another time Ellsworth told me through a medium
in New Jersey that he would run his fingers through my
hair. The next night I was at Mr. Decker's circle when
fingers were run through my hair and my head patted. The
next night I was told through a New York medium that
[201]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Ellsworth was the one who patted my head. Not one of the
three mediums knew each other, and only the first one —
the one in New Jersey—knew the test was to be made, and
I was careful not to let her know of Mr. Decker's circle,
where I was going."
Louis R. Dederick
Of course Dunninger and his crew might explain this
demonstration by saying that Mr. Dederick, during a fit
of temporary insanity, thought he heard his nephew call
himself "Ellsworth." And shocked into some show of sur
prise by this, inadvertently ran his own fingers through his
own hair, thinking his own head belonged to someone else.
While this might seem just a bit complicated it is a much
better explanation than many offered by magicians in even
more direct and convincing experiences, on which they col
lected a couple of thousand dollar's worth of grade A
advertising.
It might also be interesting to hear from anyone else in
the fact-juggling fraternity as to just how Decker could
manipulate two trumpets and ventriloquize two different
voices simultaneously —one at each end of the room —a feat
so unbalancing to Mr. Goadby's nerves as to cause him to
write this:
"I was impressed at the trumpet seance held at the New
York Section Rooms, Hyslop House on March 5th, by this,
particularly: that it seemed to me that I heard two trum
pets going at once —one at each end of the room."
Arthur Goadby
Member of The American Society of
Psychical Research
Or, better still, how Mr. Jackson, in his own home, hap
pened to hear three spirit voices speaking at the same time
to three different people. Can Decker ventriloquize in three
voices at once—and often in foreign languages, with which
he has no acquaintance?
[202]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
Here is the honest statement of an honest man. What
trumpery evasions or quibblings can explain these?
"Having sat in circles with Mr. Decker on three sep
arate occasions in my own home, among the many inter
esting phenomena, I was most gratified by hearing, on two
of these occasions, three spirit voices speaking simul
taneously to three different people in the circles. On one
of these occasions two of the trumpets were marked with
distinctive phosporescent paint and could be seen in front
of two of those being addressed."
Roland V. Jackson
Member of The American Society of
Psychical Research
Garden City, N. Y.
THE TRUTH IN MATTERS MASONIC—A SACRED CHARGE
I would also like to enquire just how magicians would
interpret the beautiful experience here narrated by Mr.
Paton.
"On Wednesday, April 3rd, 1929, I attended a scientific
gathering at the residence of Maina L. Tafe, 255 West
33rd Street, New York City, on which occasion a trumpet
circle was held with Mr. Frank Decker (unknown to me),
the medium.
"A remarkable demonstration of ectoplasm occurred,
and spirit voices communicated with each of the eight sit
ters, mentioning incidents of a personal nature, recognized
by each individual, and known only to themselves.
"My father announced himself as
'J.
Howland Paton'
the name by which he was christened, but not generally used
by
him during his earthly existence, he being usually known
as 'James H. Paton'.
"He referred to an incident in January 1913, when
I
was
installed as Master of Eureka Lodge No. 243, F. and A.
M. and welcomed him as Past Master of Citizen's Lodge
No. 628 to
a
seat with me
in
the "East" as being one of the
proudest moments of his life.
[203]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"This of course was unknown to the medium (not a
Mason) or to any other present, but myself. This incident
can be verified by the minutes of Eureka Lodge on that oc
casion.
"I have been seeking 'Spiritual Truth' for some time,
and thanks to Mr. Frank Decker and his genuine medium-
ship, I am convinced I have found it beyond any question
of doubt, for which I am indeed grateful and happy."
Robert Paton
Member of the American Society of
Psychical Research
155 W. 47th St., New York City
A TEST FOR EVEN THE MOST ADEPT MAGICIAN
Again, I would like to ask whether there is anyone in
the world —assuming that he is in his right mind —who can
say that he has never heard of a prestidigitator of whose
work this was said:
"There were many impressive demonstrations of Mr.
Decker's mediumship in the four times that I have sat with
him. Three trumpets speaking at once, touching three peo
ple simultaneously and the positive identification of my son,
through telling the certain pet names on two occasions that
no one but myself had any possibility of knowing. The
personality of my boy was unmistakable."
Maude Leake Jackson
Member of The American Society of Psychical
Research, Garden City
I might state, at this time, that if anyone doubts the
willingness of Decker to submit himself to any restriction
that will not actually endanger his life he might read this
endorsement.
"I have attended many of Mr. Decker's seances with
very interesting results. I think him of great value to the
[204]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
cause of Psychic Research because of his cheerful willing
ness to sit under conditions of complete control."
George McDerby
Member of The American Society of Psychical
Research, Princeton, New Jersey
OF WHAT POSSIBLE USE IS SPIRITISM?
And finally, we hear again and again the query from
some half-baked materialist, or from some medium-baiter
with a mission, "Of what possible use is spiritism? What
can it teach us? We are the same jackasses after we hear
all these things and have all these experiences that we were
before."
If there lives a person with soul so dead who cannot thrill
to the touch of a vanished hand, a kiss from lips that are
dust and the sound of a voice that is stilled, here on this
plane, we must, in all sincerity, say to him "For you, there
is nothing in spiritism. You may have to come to the rea
lization of its truth in long years of loneliness and separa
tion from loved ones —granting that there is in you the
capacity for love and affection."
Nevertheless, most normal people would be glad if they
were able to say with Miss Mildred Peter:
"I have come to know that there is not only a future
life, but that all life progresses, and that things as we go on
become more beautiful and wonderful if we follow the way
of truth and love.
I have had very convincing evidence that I was com
municating with my own dear ones who have passed over
to the next plane of life and with whom I was, of course,
anxious to contact.
I have also come to know and love the spirit teachers
who come through."
Or to say, with my friend, Matilda Levy, and her good
husband :
"Many of our dear ones came with such love, called our
[205]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
names, and touched us with the trumpet lovingly. Our dear
Annette touched us with real warm small hands, and later
gave us each a daffodil out of a vaseful that a friend
brought in yesterday and said 'these are for Annette.'
Annette said tonight, 'These are my flowers.' God bless
this medium for bringing us this joy tonight. There's much
more to this than we can tell."
Matilda Levy
Member of The American Society of Psychical
Research
626 E. 8th St., Brooklyn, N. Y.
Or to know positively —not by any exercise of an utterly
unsupported faith, or a hope that only too many millions
regard as futile and foundationless —that life is eternal, and
that we shall see our dear ones again.
When you shall have had many such experiences as Mr.
Whitman has had you will know the difference between ab
solutely definite phenomena and the shuffling child's play
of the magician.
No conjurer in the world can produce this:
"Two voices at once —three trumpets touching the sit
ters in different parts of the circle at the same moment.
Fingers lifting a hand of the sitter, at the instant that Mr.
Decker spoke from across the circle, attest genuineness."
R. B. Whitman
Member of The American Society of
Psychical Research
ACTUAL AND CONCRETE PROOFS
When we develop sufficient intelligence to admit that the
phenomena produced by spirits are genuine —and, as Conan
Doyle says, on page 100 of his "American Adventure," "No
one but an ignorant fool could deny that"—we may arrive
at the thanks-be-to-God attitude of being able to state:
"Mr. Frank Decker called at my rooms tonight and
gave a 'seance.' My sister-in-law and myself were the only
[206]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
ones in the circle. Mr. Decker was an entire stranger to us,
and not a word was dropped as to whom we expected a
message from.
"I can truthfully say that my departed wife came
through and conversed with me for about 30 minutes and
gave me evidential and concrete proofs that I was actually
in contact with her."
E. V. Jelenko
Member of The American Society of
Psychical Research
41 E. 86th St., New York City
One of the greatest of all England's many fine mediums,
a man who is known and respected all over the world for
his scholarly lectures and his splendid message work is Mr.
Horace Leaf. Here is what Mr. Leaf wrote in Decker's
"Remembrance Book."
"In memory of an interesting and impressive seance
with Frank Decker. I controlled Mr. Decker's hands and
feet and held his head in my lap during the time some of the
voices spoke and can testify to the fact that they were quite
independent of Mr. Frank Decker."
Horace Leaf
Here is another letter that carries the stamp of heart
felt sincerity.
"Your work at Stamford was the most wonderful
demonstration I have ever witnessed and I have been sitting
with various sensitievs for many years. The general power
was quite remarkable and my own manifestation gave me
the greatest pleasure of my life.
"For over forty-five years I have wanted to get some
kind of a message from my father who passed over in 1890.
I have never had even an inkling of a message by any usual
methods, but last night I got a materialization and direct
voice of my father who shook my hand, hugged me and
[207]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
patted me on the back so loudly it could be heard by every
body.
I was duly grateful as I had been told through many
channels that he was on such a high plane of vibration that
he could not "tune down" to ours. It was overpowering.
"Patsy gave some remarkable fundamental explanations
of the upper sphere which were very clear and under
standable.
May the God of Love continue to endow you with your
rare ability to make possible such conclusive demonstrations
of the certain continuity of existence."
ECKFORD C. DEKAY
Here is an interesting experience in which Maina Tafe,
well known medium participated.
"My first sitting with Mr. Decker had remarkable re
sults. The sitting took place on a Friday evening. My
mother came through and gave me evidence of something
that I knew nothing about. I wrote to the party involved,
Miss Tafe, and the following Sunday she verified my ques
tions, thus proving the sincerity of the medium. Miss Tafe
and myself will be very glad to give further information if
requested."
Maina L. Tafe
Matilda Levy
E. Jean Partridge
It seems absolutely improbable that Mrs. Duncan could
have imagined this :
"Unusual and remarkable manifestations occurred.
Materialization of one not human to either the medium or
any one present. I clearly saw this form. Tests were very
unusual and accurate."
Mrs. Georgia Duncan
44 Ellsworth St., Portland, Me.
[208]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
Here is a message from the best known, best loved and
—because of his prominence —the most cordially hated
medium of the past decade.
"Life is like a bird on a bough,
The bough breaks and the bird flies away."
My very best thought,
John Slater
Love to "Patsy."
Away back in 1929, when Decker was, so to say, a
fledgling in this work, and only about one-tenth as well-
developed as he now
is,
he received the following com
munication from Mr.
J.
Malcolm Bird.
I
was hoping that Mr. Bird would arrange to again test
Decker, and witness some of the astounding phenomena we
have been seeing lately, but
I
am afraid that prejudice, de
veloped in the Society, may deprive Decker of this pleasure
and satisfaction.
However, he asks me to say that he
is
ready and willing
at any time to put himself at the disposal of the Society, and
be subjected to any tests they may exact.
AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH, Inc.
FIFTEEN LEXINGTON AVENUE
NEW YORK
March 8th, 1929.
My Dear Mr. Decker
:
You have
in
your possession
a
statement from
me, dated January 21st, 1929, with reference to the phe
nomena observed at three seances which you gave at Hyslop
House at that time. Since then
I
have attended three further
seances, and
I
wish to add the following to what
I
have
already said:
It
was unfortunate that on the occasions of
most rigorous control there was little or no action, but
I
[209]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
am quite aware of the general possibility that such outcome
may be attributable to the medium's physical condition or
to the unaccustomed controls. In two seances held without
control, we obtained some phenomena of extreme interest:
particularly simultaneous phenomena of the same sort or of
different sorts in widely separated quarters of the room, and
directed contacts of the sitters without any preliminary ob
servation that was evident. In the nature of the case one
hesitates to make too definite statements about uncontrolled
phenomena obtained in darkness, and in the nature of the
case such phenomena cannot be final. But my impression
at the time was that I could not be confident that normal
means would have been sufficient for the production of all
that was observed ; and I think you ought to have this state
ment, modifying in some degree the final sentence of my
previous one. I hope we shall be able to go further as a
result of further seances.
Very sincerely yours,
J. Malcolm Bird, Research Officer.
Now we have a beautiful message from Mrs. John
Myers, and her lovely daughter, Jeanette.
South West Psychic Centre,
Spencer Park,
London, S. W. 18
I have much pleasure in stating that tonight I
have had wonderful evidence of "Patsy" being with me
today, my daughter can also testify same. God bless you,
Frank Decker, and your wonderful guide. With love,
Mrs. John Myers
Jeannette Myers
London, England.
And finally, if any feather-brained skeptic denies the pos
sible advantage of a knowledge of and a belief in spiritism,
[210]
MAGICIAN'S MADNESS
let him put himself in the position of this good friend, back
in 1930.
"This is to certify that my study and development under
Frank Decker was the means of keeping me from jumping
out of the 29th floor window after a great disappointment."
I am witholding the name of this gentleman. However,
anyone sufficiently interested to check on this may see the
original, in my possession.
In the face of all this, and countless thousands of other
amazing evidences of spirit manifestation, spirit guidance
and help, does it not seem almost fantastic that there still
exist men and women—countless millions of them—to whom
the very name "spiritism" is anathema?
However, we must remember that civilization—as we
know it in this epoch —only began with the Cromagnon man
—a brief twelve thousand years ago. So physical evolution
has been an exceedingly slow process of development.
Mental and spiritual evolution promises to be an even more
leisurely process.
In God's good time even magicians may become more
intelligent and human. But it's going to take quite a while
yet.
[211]
Chapter XIX
SPIRITUAL HEALING
FROM
earliest recorded history Spiritual Healing has
been recognized as a factor in preventing death and in
relieving illness. The earliest priests were almost invariably
medicine men, as well as religious servitors, and up to the
time of Hippocrates were the only physicians.
These priests healed by incantation, by purging and
vomiting the patient (pretty good treatment, too) and by
prayer, fasting, diet, ablution, exercise and sweating.
They believed—as so many medicine men of barbaric
tribes believe to this day—that disease is in the main a mani
festation of the presence of demons, devils or evil spirits,
who have taken up their residence within the body of their
victim.
Priestly incantation consisted chiefly in making things
decidedly uncomfortable for the invading demon, by beating
tom-toms and shouting, as well as by burning stink-pots, and
raising smoke smudges for his benefit.
The persistence of this superstition is still seen in the
censor-swinging activities of the Catholic clergy, and in
their attempts to "ban" a spirit and clear out a haunted
house, as well as to drive any malign influence from the
neighborhood of the altar during "divine service."
Naturally, most men and women who have had any
training in the sciences, and who claim to be able to think
clearly, regard these ideas and the activities associated with
them as mere evidence of childish credulity. They feel
that, in this enlightened age, this is really an unforgivably
stupid form of superstition.
[212]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
I can sympathize with this conviction, for I too in my
callow materialistic youth, have laughed to scorn the as
sumption that mischievous or malicious discarnate intelli
gences might, under certain circumstances, produce serious
physical or mental disorders.
With Buchner's "Force and Matter" under one arm
and Haeckel's "Riddle Of The Universe" under the other
I have ridiculed the contention that any spirit—from Jesus
Christ down to Old Aunt Maria—could help clear the
debris from this "muddy vesture of decay" we now inhabit,
or remove from the mind the psychic poison that turns nor
mal mental reactions into the weird ravings of dementia, the
murderous frenzy of mania, or the pathetic despair of
melancholia.
ADMITTEDLY THERE IS A REASON FOR DISEASE
AND MENTAL ABNORMALITY
No intelligent person can deny that there is a reason for
most of the ills to which flesh is heir, if only this reason
could be determined. We know that when a person is in-
noculated with a specific germ—as for instance, the Plas
modium of malaria, the spirochete pallida of syphilis, the
gonococcus of Neiser, he will develop malaria, syphilis or
gonorrhea —just as surely as he would drown if he were to
be submerged for five minutes. Or smashed into a pulp if
he were to leap from the roof of the Empire Building.
We know that scores of other germs produce their
characteristic diseases, if the phagocytic activity of the
blood is low, or if the subject is deficient in resisting power.
We know that an improperly balanced diet—especially
where there is a deficiency of certain vitamins or mineral
salts—will inevitably produce rickets, pellagra, scurvy or
other disorders, specific to the lack of these particular sub
stances.
We know that if the endocrine glands do not function
normally, if certain fundamental laws of hygiene are vio
[213]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
lated, if the vertebrae of the spinal column are out of proper
alignment, if there are any foci of infection anywhere in the
body, certain definite disorders may develop.
We know that, with medicine and surgery, dentistry,
osteopathy or chiropractic, properly refracted lenses, obed
ience to the common laws of hygiene, the avoidance of
excesses in every form, colonic irrigations, physio-therapy
and electro-therapeutics, miracles in healing may be pro
duced.
Also, as I know from long experience with the method,
wonderful results may often be obtained in functional and
neurotic conditions by the use of psycho-therapeutics or hyp
notic suggestion.
A SOUND MIND IN A SOUND BODY
We have also proved in innumerable instances the truth
of the old Latin dictum "Mens sana in corpore sano" —
"a sound mind in a sound body." And are curing thousands
of cases of mental derangement by clearing up focal ab-
cesses and infections in the body, and by what Dr. O. M.
DeLaney, a really gifted surgeon, of New York City,
calls "Pasteurization of the blood" —raising the blood
and body temperature to 102 to 105 degrees, and keeping
it at this fever heat for an hour or more at a time.
By the use of this most advanced of all methods of heal
ing many forms of infectious disorders can be cured. And
in an astonishingly brief time.
Certain of these pathological conditions —such as gen
eral paralysis (from softening of the brain) Nieserian in
fections of years' standing, arthritis and neuritis, sleeping
sickness and numerous other chronic or incurable disorders
—respond to this hyperpyrexia ("high-fever") treatment,
as it is called, in an amazing way.
However, notwithstanding all the miracles of healing
performed in this world every day, there still remain other
miracles in the healing of the sick, the halt, the maimed or
[214]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
the blind that cannot possibly be accounted for, or dupli
cated, by any form of medical, surgical, psychological, or
vibrational treatment with which we are now familiar.
There still remain the thousands of cases, for whom no
scintilla or hope had been held out by even the most eminent
physicans, but who, nevertheless, recovered their health or
their reason through some miracle of prayer or divine
healing.
It is begging the question to say that these results are
brought about entirely by the influence of suggestion. For
many of these people, thus healed, were in a coma when the
prayer was raised at their bedside. Indeed, in instances
within my own knowledge, Divine aid (which is only an
other form of spiritual healing) was invoked in a church, in
a gathering of friends held miles away from where the
patient lay dying, and on one occasion in a city, half way
across the continent.
There is no possible explanation for the subsequent re
covery of these death-destined patients in hypnotic or thera
peutic suggestion—unless we are to admit that the sug
gestion was telepathically conveyed.
However, I believe it will be readily admitted by any
one, experienced in therapeutic suggestion, or familiar with
its psychological underlying processes, that such suggestion,
given directly to the patients—as was done, in effect, by
doctors, nurses, family and friends, in their cheerful and
encouraging attitude toward these sick ones —would have
had an infinitely more potent effect than suggestion which
might come through the tenuous and space-dimmed paths
of telepathy.
THERAPEUTIC SUGGESTION OF NO AVAIL IN THESE CASES
Even the most positive form of therapeutic suggestion
would have been of no avail in these cases. I may be per
mitted this opinion because I have had considerable ex
perience with hypnotic suggestion in the treatment of func
[215]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
tional and nervous disorders. Therefore, I know the limi
tations of this method. It is merely a matter of getting the
proper degree of receptivity, and giving the necessary sug
gestions, in a sincere and convincing tone. Therefore the
results secured by one hypnotist are quite as effective as are
those obtained by any other hypnotist.
Admittedly, in all conditions where the autonomic (or
sympathetic nervous system) is at fault, gratifying results
may often be gained. Particularly if the patient can be
"put down" into something deeper than a mere hypnoidal,
or pliantly receptive condition, and much nearer the cata
leptic state.
However, while these nervous and metabolic distur
bances frequently respond most satisfactorily to suggestion,
no conservative psycho-therapeutist —from Braid, Moll,
Charcot or Liebeault down to our contemporary neurolo
gists and psychiatrists who use the method on occasion—
would contend that a patient, suffering from a pathological
condition —due to germ invasion, or to degenerative cell
changes —could expect any material help from suggestion.
Nevertheless, the three patients to whom I have re
ferred, made a complete recovery from what any informed
physician would emphatically state was an absolutely in
curable condition.
The first of these patients was in the final stages of
pneumonia, muttering in full delirium. His pathetic and
futile picking at the bed clothes presaged the last scene of
all in this tragedy we call life. Except for the death rattle,
he showed every sign of imminent dissolution.
An old priest, who had baptized him thirty odd years
before, and who had later confirmed him, had that morning
given him the last rites of the Church and said the prayers
for the dying at his bedside.
Yet, an hour or so later, and without the slightest ap
parent reason, the fingers, so feverishly busy, loosening the
last strands that bound the man to this plane of existence,
[216]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
quieted down and rested without further movement on the
quilt.
The incoherent mumbling ceased, after a sigh, the hur
ried, gasping respirations gave way to a deep, rythmic
breathing. In a few minutes the eyes opened, and within
an incredibly short time recognition came into them. Fol
lowed then a bewildering speedy recovery.
We learned afterwards that, at the very moment old
Charon turned his boat back to the dark shore, the priest
who had that morning given this patient his passport for
the long outward voyage, was on his knees, before the altar,
praying to the Virgin Mary and to his patron saint, Saint
Joseph, to interpose and cancel the necessity for using the
passport at this time.
THE DIABETIC WHO WAS CURED BY A SPIRIT DOCTOR
The second case I personally investigated had been pro
nounced hopelessly incurable by at least a dozen doctors.
He had suffered for a number of years from diabetes mel-
litus ("honey urine") a grave and usually fatal condition.
This man had an exceedingly high percentage of sugar
in the urine, (an average of 4%). There were several huge
carbuncles and a number of boils on his body. He had
finally sunk into a profound coma, from which bicarbonate
enemas did not seem to arouse him. (This was a year or
two before insulin was discovered).
The physician in attendance had told the family that it
was useless for him to call again, as everything that medical
science could possibly do had been done by him and the
doctors with whom he had consulted.
This man's family and many of his friends happened to
have been spiritualists. Informed of the patient's con
dition, they quickly gathered at the house of one of the
members of their group.
After prayers in a darkened room by the leader of the
circle, the spirit of one of their guides—a famous physician
[217]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
during earth life—was invoked. Through the trumpet the
decarnate doctor informed the devoted band that he would
do all he could for their friend—and his friend.
I was afterwards informed that within a few hours this
patient had come out of his coma and that he was once more
rational. Inside of a week his boils and carbuncles had
completely healed and his urine was entirely free from
sugar.
I checked on this at the time. Several years afterwards
I was told by the doctor who had attended this hopelessly
stricken man that there has never been any return of his
pathology.
HOW THE MANIAC WAS CURED BY SPIRIT MINISTRATION
In these two cases there was a definite pathology—
evidenced by clinical, microscopical and chemical exam
ination. No intelligent physician could possibly claim an
hysterical etiology (or cause) for these groups of symp
toms.
What the healing spirits did for these men was direct
and specific. No possible hokus-pokus, no matter how
elaborate, could account for these results.
The third patient, however, was a mental case. She was
afflicted with suicidal and homicidal mania, following a year
or more of melancholia, traceable to the death of her child.
Everything the most skillful psychiatrist could possibly
do for this woman had been done. Until finally she had to
be committed to an asylum, in order to prevent her from
harming herself, or some member of the family.
Two sisters were spiritualists. They lived in Indian
apolis, Indiana. When they heard of their sister's com
mitment to an insane asylum they were almost frantic, be
lieving as do many people, including myself, that incurable
insanity is infinitely worse than death.
Immediately they sought aid among those of their faith.
Nightly meetings were held by their little group. The heal
[218]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
ing guides—in this case, two Indians—were petitioned to
do what they could for this woman.
It is interesting to relate that what they did was ex
ceedingly well done. For, within a few months after this
woman had been committed, with the most hopeless possible
prognosis, she was discharged as cured, and has remained
so ever since.
Of course it is barely possible that, despite the de
plorably unfavorable prognosis of the alienists, the woman
might have made a spontaneous recovery. And that the
apparently favorable ministrations of the Indian medicine
men at this time were merely coincidental with this spon
taneous recovery.
My own conviction, however, is that to the Indian
guides—and to the Great Source of all being, of which they
are but humble instruments —belong all credit for this re
markable recovery.
One of two physician friends, however, (physicians are
notoriously materialistic and super-skeptical) have con
tended that the rehabilitation of this mental patient was
unquestionably due to suggestions—given by the doctors
and nurses at the institution.
To which I reply that a maniac is impervious to sug
gestion. The only possible suggestion that could be of any
value in these mental cases would be suggestion given under
hypnosis. And no insane patient, much less a raving maniac
can be hypnotized. At least not by the Braid, Nancy, Char
cot, or any other method with which we Occidentals are
familiar.
For in order to induce hypnosis a certain quiescense and
receptivity must be secured. This cooperation is not possible
when the patient is mentally deranged.
ALL GREAT PROPHETS SPIRITUAL HEALERS
Most of the great religious leaders—as well as many
[219]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
prophets of renown —were gifted with the power of spirit
ual healing, or else they had such reputation.
Now it is an old adage that where there is much smoke
there must be some fire. And inasmuch as all races of men
—from the highly intellectual Greeks to the Bushmen of
Central Africa—from the voodoo priests of Haiti to con
temporary men and women of the highest intellectual stand
ing—believe in, or actually practice, metaphysical healing—
there can be no doubt of the verity of this phenomenon.
Even the sacred shrines and so-called holy-places
contribute their weight of evidence to this contention. The
shrines of St. Anne de Beaupre and of Our Lady of
Lourdes, the Keblah, sacred to Mohammedans the world
over, the banks of the noisome Ganges, scores of churches,
wells and other places have been set apart by men every
where as the scene of innumerable authentic miracles.
Even that beautiful fictional presentation, "The Miracle
Man" —produced on our stage and screen a few years ago
—it is now conceded, has a solid foundation in fact. For
"miracle men" of this general type may be found, at times,
in all parts of the civilized and uncivilized world.
We shall not, in these pages, consider the indubitable
powers, and the evidences of spiritual healing, performed
by the Master Healer, Jesus Christ, and to a much lesser
extent, by certain of his disciples.
That Christ possessed miraculous powers of psychic
healing, that He was able to suspend the laws of gravitation
—in walking on the water —and that He was thoroughly
familiar with the techique of highly advanced mediumship —
is evident to all who have ever studied the New Testament
in the light of modern psychic research.
SCIENTISTS NOW BEGINNING TO ADMIT THE TRUTH
OF SPIRITUAL HEALING
Materialistic scientists have, naturally, been loath to
admit the existence of any healing power —apart from
[220]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
medical means, or the influence of auto or hetero-suggestion.
Nevertheless, there are so many thousands of well-authen
ticated experiences, attesting to the value of prayer, to
divine intervention, or to the healing by supernormal-
intelligence, that even the most skeptical scientist now con
cedes the possibility of some healing force, outside of the
body, and apart from any known medical or mental process.
We, who know so little of life, and even less of death,
should be chary of assuming a dogmatic attitude respecting
the possibility of spiritual healing. If the soul has a con
scious existence after death—as has been thoroughly es
tablished by the careful investigations of such men as Baron
Von Schrenck-Notzing, Cesare Lombroso, Sir William
Crooks, Sir Oliver Lodge, Camille Flammarion, and scores
of other scientists of highest reputation, it is not unthinkable
that discarnate spirits might be profoundly interested in
helping to maintain life in an organism that has not yet
completed certain useful earth-life activities. It is highly
credible that these intelligences might well attach them
selves to some medium who has achieved success in this
particular line, and aid him in this work.
GIFTED SPIRITUAL HEALERS EXTREMELY RARE
Such mediums are, of course, extremely rare. Yet,
under strictest test conditions, they have shown bewildering
powers in diagnosis and extraordinary accuracy in pre
scribing the particular form of treatment that ultimately
brings about a cure. One old spiritualist healer, a medical
man, named Dr. Pomeroy, whom I have before mentioned,
had marvellous success in curing thousands of patients,
given up as incurable by some of the best men in this part
of the country.
Dr. Pomeroy combined spiritual with therapeutic heal
ing. However, he relied entirely upon clairaudient mes
sages received from his guides for his almost infallible
diagnosis.
[221]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
The healing of mental cases by psychic means some
times offers an extraordinarily interesting study. To illus
trate, Dr. Carl Wickland and his wife, of Los Angeles,
California, have had astounding results in apparently cur
ing hundreds of cases of insanity, of various non-degen
erative types. These spiritual healers believe that insanity
—when not due to a syphillitic gumma or to softening of
the brain —may often find its cause in the obsession of the
individual by evil spirits. The function of these healers and
their spirit guides, or aides, is to drive out these evil spirits
—as Christ was reputed to have driven out demons during
his earth pilgrimage.
Dr. Wickland, in his "Thirty Years Among The Dead,"
gives a detailed account of the method pursued by himself
and his wife in ridding an obsessed individual of the entity
who has dispossessed his original ego, or personal spirit.
Everyone interested in psychic phenomena and its various
manifestations should familiarize himself with Dr. Wick-
land's account of his experiences with those poltergeists and
possessing entities.
It may here be stated that these doctors and their friends
contend that by their method of removing obsessions, half
the insane asylums of the world could be emptied of their
inmates.
It is believed by many who have witnessed the results
that it would be well worth while to test out this treatment,
under strict scientific observation. If it should prove even
one-tenth as marvelous as it has been thought to be, the
method should be adopted immediately and put into general
use.
WHAT PROFESSOR HYSLOP THOUGHT OF OBSESSION
Dr. James H. Hyslop, in his "Life After Death" tells
us that "It is only stupidity that does not see the connection
between our modern spiritual healing and that of the New
Testament."
[222]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
He accepts obsession as being "the supernormal in
fluence of a foreign consciousness on the mind and organism
of a sensitive person," and goes on to say: "Any man who
believes in telepathy or mind-reading, cannot escape the pos
sibility of obsession. Accepting such a phenomenon, he
assumes the influence of an external consciousness on an
other mind. Hence, if you once grant the existence of dis-
carnate spirits, the same process, namely telepathy from
discarnate minds, might exercise and have an influence on
the minds of the living, provided they are psychically re
ceptive to such influences. It is only a question of evidence
for the fact. I regard the existence of discarnate spirits as
scientifically proved, and I no longer refer to the skeptic as
having any right to speak on the subject. Any man who
does not accept the existence of discarnate spirits and the
proof of it is either ignorant or a moral coward."
In which conclusion I must heartily agree with Dr.
Hyslop.
DR. TITUS BULL DISCUSSES OBSESSION
Dr. Titus Bull, eminent physician, careful and analytical
investigator, former Trustee of the American Society for
Psychical Research, intimate friend and associate of Pro
fessor Hyslop and President and Director of the James H.
Hyslop Foundation, has specialized for many years in the
treatment of obsession.
These patients came to him in the course of his psychi
atrical work. Many of them he was able to help in a most
gratifying way.
In his "Analysis of Unusual Experiences in Healing
in Relation to Diseased Minds," Dr. Bull says:
"There is much to be uncovered, especially in relation
to spirit obsession as a factor in the causality of psychoses
and neuroses; for it seems that spirit obsession is more com
plex than one would at first suppose. An obsessing person
ality is not composed of the soul, mind and will of one dis»
[223]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
embodied being, but
is,
in
reality,
a
composite personality
made up of many beings. The pivot obsessor, or the one
who first impinges upon the sensorium of the mortal,
is
gen
erally one with little resistance to the suggestions of others.
He or she, therefore, becomes an easy prey to those who
desire to approach
a
mortal
in
this way, which seems not
to interfere with the acquisition of vicarious; satisfaction
through reactions of the physical body to any and all of
the obsessing group. As time goes on more accretions are
gathered
in
this process until finally
a
mortal in such
a
plight
may become completely submerged. .
.
.
"It would seem that obsessors have three major points
of impingement; namely, the base of the brain, the region
of the solar plexus and at the center governing the reproduc
tive organs. As there are three major points of impinge
ment,
it
may be assumed that there can be three composite
groups, each starting with
a
pivot entity. What satisfac
tion
is
to be gained in this way includes the whole gamut
of human emotions, and what
a
clamor there must be in
such
a
group, whose individual members care little for any
thing except their own gratification. The truth of this last
idea will be understood by studying the reactions of
a
mor
tal in such
a
plight. Moreover, one has but to go into our
institutions of the insane to find many who are completely
submerged, to the point of loss of their identity. . . .
"There are other types of individuals who may, or may
not, become obsessors through the machinations or wiles of
others. Some are those who pass out of the body and seem
not to understand what has happened to them. Would they
not be readily influenced to attempt to contact physical real
ity through the avenue of obsessing possibilities
?
Once hav
ing been successful, would such an one not struggle to
continue his advantage —not fully realizing, perhaps, the
danger to himself nor the harm being done to the one ob
sessed. . . .
"One can visualize the difficulty
in
convincing
a
person
[224]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
that he has made a transition when he continues to feel his
physical pangs. It would be still more difficult if this same
one had previously accepted the idea that death, through
the act of faith, ended all pain to be followed by a life of
bliss. This situation is not a figment of the imagination,
but from experience, real and tragic."
NOTHING SUPERNATURAL ABOUT SPIRITUAL HEALING
My good friend, Felicie O. Crossley, of Los Angeles —
who is one of the best informed and most intelligent, as
well as one of the most gifted of contemporary mediums—
is herself a psychic healer, and a diagnostician of no mean
ability.
Mrs. Crossley has given me some account of her con
ception of the modus operandi of spiritual healing, which
seems to be soundly-reasoned and well-considered.
She says : "There is nothing occult or supernatural about
spiritual or mental healing. The same principles are applied
chemically by the academic physician as the metaphysician
uses mentally. The fundamental of all healing is merely
the changing of the mental attitude of the patient and the
chemical constituents of his body—in other words a chang
ing of his mental and physical vibrations.
"Modern science has confirmed the age-old occult teach
ing, that all physical life is differentiated only by rates of
vibration or rates of molecular motion.
HOW NEGATIVE CONDITIONS LOWER BODILY VIBRATIONS
"Negative states, such as doubt, worry, fear and mental
depression lessen the intensity and uniformity of the bodily
vibration, and if persisted in, will bring about a patho
logical disturbance in the body atomic structure. They
affect the mind and lead to nervous breakdowns. Thus the
the significance of the phrase: "As a man thinketh in his
heart, so is he.'
[225]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"Spiritual or mental healing supercede, because their
process involves the higher vibrations of life, deal with those
forces which create and sustain life. Jesus called this great
life-giver the "Father," and said : 'It is not I, but the Father
within me which doeth the works.' Though spiritual heal
ing was first considered as a science by Andrew Jackson, the
father of Modern Spiritualism, (in 1846), and later by
Quimby, who introduced the subject to Mary Eddy Baker,
healing by the divine law of thought transference has been
known and practiced for thousands of years.
WITHOUT THE MIRACLES OF SPIRITUAL HEALING
CHRISTIANITY MIGHT NEVER HAVE BEEN KNOWN
"Jesus would not have attracted the multitudes who fol
lowed him were it not for his healing powers. His three
years' ministry is replete with wonderful healing demon
strations. He admonished his disciples to "Heal the sick,
cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils : freely ye
have received, freely give."
"Yet, when modern practitioners of spiritual power per
form wonders in casting out devils, or obsessing spirits, heal
the sick and afflicted, even those physicians who profess
Christianity life a scornful eye-brow, and it is not uncommon
for them to gather together, as the Pharisees did concerning
Jesus, seeking to destroy their privileges.
"Unbelievers declare the days of miracles ended with
the Christian era —unmindful that God's laws are absolute
and eternal."
MEDICAE DIAGNOSTICIAN AND MESSAGE BEARER
Another little lady, in whose work I am greatly inter
ested —for I foresee in it enormous possibilities for good —
is my friend, Mrs. Harry Oliver. Mrs. Oliver is a medical
diagnostician of extraordinary accuracy. So far as I know,
however, she has no healing power whatsoever.
[226]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
She seems to get her impressions through some form of
psychometry —as she frequently touches the patient—prob
ably to come in closer vibrational harmony with him—there
by intensifying the impression. She herself claims, however,
that she sees the aura of the organ affected, in a color dif
ferent from its normal hue.
Be that as it may, if Mrs. Oliver can tell a physician —
as I have seen her do repeatedly —just what organ or organs
in the body are affected —giving, at the same time, some
helpful information concerning the probable pathology in
volved —the doctor will be enabled to cope with the situ
ation much more efficiently than he otherwise could.
I have known Mrs. Oliver to dignose tumors, both be
nign and malignant, long before any objective symptoms
were apparent to the medical man.
I have seen her point out unerringly the cause or causes
of certain chronic metabolic disorders. Proper treatment,
directed to these abnormal functioning conditions, usually
resulted in clearing up the condition.
I am hoping that, some time, a committee of clinicians
might make a thorough investigation of these diagnostic
indications, and establish just what percentage of her find
ings are dependable.
Mrs. Oliver's very accurate message bearing seems to
focus around a form of automatic writing, received with
lightning-like rapidity, and in a series of apparently pur
poseless scrawls.
One would gain the impression that she uses the pencil
merely as some clairvoyants might use a crystal —for pur
poses of concentration.
Nevertheless, out of these seemingly meaningless con
glomeration of pencil scribblings, she will occasionally point
out fully formed faces or forms. Just as when we were
children we used to find hidden faces in the picture of a tree
or shrub. It is all very interesting.
[227]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
DR. ALEXIS CARREL COURAGEOUS SCIENTIST
Perhaps the most courageous, the most far-reaching and
the most important contribution to the cause of psychic
phenomena in this generation is the frank and straight
forward statement by Dr. Alexis Carrell —great surgeon and
scientist of world-wide reputation —now connected with the
Rockefeller Institute.
Dr. Carrel is the winner of the Nobel Prize in 19 12 —
a brilliant research worker, a daring and original thinker
and a man of unimpeachable mental integrity.
And yet it is safe to say that about four out of five
members of the medical profession would be only too happy
to cut his throat—or else have him permanently incarcer
ated in an asylum, where he could babble his heresies to
padded walls. And no longer disturb the "scientific" fun
damentalism of a sturdy army of thick-headed skeptics.
In fact, Dr. Carrell hints at such a possibility when he
admits that "the equilibrium of his intellect will be doubted,"
but protests that he only pleads for further investigations
of "temporarily unexplainable facts."
For not only does this honest investigator accept tel
epathy and clairvoyance as subjects for scientific study, but
he also states his belief in such abnormal conditions as ec-
stacy in mystics and the miraculous "cures" achieved
through prayer.
Respecting telepathy and clairvoyance Dr. Carrel says,
in his "Man the Unknown" (Harper and Bros.) :
"Clairvoyance and telepathy are a primary datum of
scientific observation. Those endowed with this power grasp
the secret thoughts of other individuals without using their
sense organs. They also perceive events more or less re
mote in time and space. This quality is exceptional. It
develops only in a small number of human beings. But
many possess it in a rudimentary state. They use it with
out effort and in a spontaneous fashion. Clairvoyance ap
pears quite commonplace to those having
it.
It
brings them
[228]
SPIRITUAL HEALING
a knowledge which is more certain than that gained through
the sense organs. A clairvoyant reads *he thoughts of
other people as easily as he examines the expression of
their faces."
However, the Fishbeins, Pollocks and Jastrows will find
absolutely conclusive evidence of paresis in Dr. Carrel's
statement that human ills—even such definitely pathological
states as cancer—may, under certain conditions, be cured
by prayer or other supernormal means.
And not in a year or ten years, but almost instanta
neously.
Dr. Carrel has written a brave and fearless book. The
hat of every spiritist in the world is doffed to him today.
May he live to see universally adopted the truths he enun
ciates.
[229]
Chapter XX
A SPIRIT MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF
TEETH AND A PULSATING HEART
ON
the evening of October 8th, 1935, during a seance
with the medium Frank Decker, a spirit was mater
ialized who demonstrated the possession of a full upper and
lower set of teeth, a firm, resistant body, a solid chest wall,
and the simulacrum of a rhythmically pulsating heart, which
was carefully auscultated by myself and two other doctors,
present at the time.
So far as I recall there
is,
in the literature of psychic
phenomena, only one well-authenticated reference to the
heart having been auscultated and the pulse-rate taken.
This occurs
in
a
Report by Sir William Crooks, which
appeared
in
the Quarterly Journal Of Science, of which
Professor Crooks was at that time editor.
The Report concerns itself with the mediumship of Miss
Florence Cook, and with the materialized spirit of "Katie
King," perhaps the most amazing entity who has ever been
permitted to appear to mortals after her evolution to that
more kindly and infinitely more interesting life across the
Border.
Sir William tells us: "Having seen so much of Katie
lately, when she has been illuminated by the electric light,
I
am enabled to add to the points of difference between her
and her medium which
I
mentioned
in
a
former article.
I
have the most absolute certainty that Miss Cook and Katie
are two separate individuals so far as their bodies are con
cerned. Several little marks on Miss Cook's face are absent
on Katie's.
[230]
MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF TEETH AND A PULSING HEART
"Katie's height varies; in my house I have seen her six
inches taller than Miss Cook. Last night, with bare feet
and not tip-toeing, she was four and a half inches taller than
Miss Cook. Katie's neck was bare last night; the skin was
perfectly smooth both to touch and sight, whilst on Miss
Cook's neck is a large blister, which under similar circum
stances is distinctly visible and rough to the touch. Katie's
ears are unpierced, whilst Miss Cook habitually wears ear
rings. Katie's complexion is very fair, while that of Miss
Cook is very dark. Katie's fingers are much longer than
Miss Cook's, and her face is also larger. In manners and
ways of expression there are also many decided differences.
"On one evening I timed Katie's pulse. It beat steadily
at 75, whilst Miss Cook's pulse a little time after was going
at its usual rate of 90. On applying my ear to Katie's chest,
I could hear a heart beating rhythmically inside, and pul
sating even more steadily than did Miss Cook's heart when
she allowed me to try a similar experiment after the seance.
Tested in the same way, Katie's lungs were found to be
sounder than her medium's, for at the time I tried my ex
periment Miss Cook was under medical treatment for a
severe cough."
Our experience, to my mind, was hardly comparable
with that of Sir William in one respect, although it was even
more interesting in another.
Professor Crooks was vouchsafed the inestimable privi
lege of seeing Katie King, in fair ruby light, while he lis
tened to her heart and chest sounds, whereas in our exper
ience with Mr. Decker's entity, we could only feel the
materialized form of the spirit, and hear his heart sounds.
Also we failed to detect any of the respiratory sounds—
so interestingly described by Professor Crooks, in his com
parison of the chest sounds of Katie King and the medium,
Florence Cook.
On the other hand, I was privileged to note definitely
the presence of a full upper and lower set of teeth, ap
[231]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
parently perfect in anatomical construction and normal
alignment, as well as what seemed to be the normal secre
tion of the membrane of the oral cavity and the salivary
glands, which, as I recall, Professor Crooks did not observe
in Katie King. Therefore, so far as I have been able to as
certain, this experience is unique.
The facts are these.
WILL THE CHILD BE A GIRL?
We were a small group —three ladies, four gentlemen
and myself. Two of the gentlemen—Dr. M. H. Blatt, of
72 McKibben Street, Brooklyn, New York, and Dr. Maur
ice A. Sturm, of 237 West 74th Street, New York City and
Miami Beach, Florida, were physicians.
Two of the group —an elderly lady and her son—had
never before attended a spiritualistic seance. And yet,
greatly to the surprise of our group of experienced sitters,
these two received a half dozen or more messages from
identifiable intelligences, who gave them some highly evi
dential information.
One spirit, the mother-in-law of the young man, in
formed him that his wife's pregnancy —the outcome of
which gave him much concern—would terminate success
fully, and that his child would be a girl.
This prophecy we hope to check in two months, or more.
Another entity, the spirit of a Mason —an Arabian —
who had been on the Other Side many centuries, came to
Dr. Blatt—who never before had had this particular ex
perience—and identified himself evidentially by giving him
the true signs and tokens of Master Mason.
Dr. Blatt then asked this Mason of olden days if he
would greet me in the ancient manner, which he did—giving
me those grips and passwords which definitely established
his status and affiliation.
After a number of almost equally interesting manifes
tations, Patsy, Frank Decker's little "Door Opener," came
[232]
MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF TEETH AND A PULSING HEART
over to me and said "can you think of anything else we can
do for you folks, Doc?"
I answered "You know, Patsy, that for more than a
year I have been trying to get you generous people over
there to materialize for us a spirit with a set of teeth. And
a heart that we can listen to, as Professor Crooks listened
to Katie King's heart."
Patsy hesitated for a moment. Then he said "Well,
that's a big order. But I'll see what Dr. Stoddard says
about it."
Dr. Stoddard, it will be remembered, is the old alchemist
—chief of a group of spirit scientists who utilize Mr.
Decker's mediumship —and who develop sensigol gas and
amazingly fragrant perfumes, which often permeate the
seance room, and who, from time to time, rock the entire
building with the vibration they produce, as psychic demon
strations of controlled force.
A MIRACLE IN MATERIALIZATION
Possibly fifteen minutes had passed since my talk with
Patsy, and the subject of our conversation had temporarily
slipped my mind, when Bert Wells, in his beautifully modu
lated voice, spoke to me :
"Will you please stand up, Dr. Bowers," he said.
I arose from my chair, and stood waiting. After what
seemed a minute or more my right hand was taken by a
fully developed human hand and carried upward to a height
of several inches above my head.
It was then brought forward until it encountered the
materialized face of an unusually tall spirit. As my fingers,
under the guidance of the entity, slipped down over his sym
metrical features, my index finger passed over his upper lip
and directly into his open mouth.
Quickly I ran my finger over the teeth in the upper left
jaw, noting that they seemed to join a natural gum tissue,
with its smooth palatal margins. Then to the right medial
[233]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
surface of the condyle of the mandible. Then over the labial
and lingual surfaces of the lower teeth —noting as best I
could in this hasty examination that the molars, bicuspids, ca
nines, laterals and incisors seemed to conform in anatomical
detail with the structure of normal teeth.
I then said to the spirit "Will you please bite my
finger?"
The spirit bit down gently on the index finger I had in
his mouth.
"Harder, please," I said, and immediately he clamped
his teeth on my finger for a few seconds with sufficient force
to produce the maximum of bearable pain.
"Thank you. That's splendid" I said, and withdrew
my finger, which I found covered with what seemed to be
the normal mucoid secretion of the oral cavity.
I deeply regretted at the time that I had no slides with
me, on which I could have preserved a few smears of this
secretion for microscopic examination.
And also see whether this examination would disclose
the same epithelial and mucous cells and other structures
which were found by Schrenck-Notzing, in his studies of
excised particles of ectoplasm. But perhaps I may have
this opportunity at some future time.
However, in order to corroborate the fact that there
was a secretion—or something exactly like a secretion, in
the mouth of this spirit—and that I didn't dream this ex
perience, or induce in myself a hypnoidal state —I afterward
wiped my moistened finger on the hand of Mrs. Evelyn
Sutta, a lady of considerable experience in matters per
taining to psychic phenomena, who sat on my right. This
lady confirmed the fact that the fluidity or viscosity of the
moisture I smeared on the back of her hand seemed identical
with that of normal saliva.
During all this time Decker lay in a profound trance
condition, punctuating his breath occasionally by stertorous
interludes.
[234]
MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF TEETH AND A PULSING HEART
I now quote from a report by Dr. Meyer Blatt, skillful
surgeon and gynecologist —a man obliged necessarily to
make accurate observations —believing that his statement
may carry some confirmation of my own findings.
Dr. Blatt says:
"i LISTEN TO THE HEART OF A MATERIALIZED SPIRIT
"The rhythmic heartbeat of a materialized entity was
heard by myself and others on October 8th, 1935, in a ma
terialization and trumpet seance given by Mr. Frank
Decker.
"Dr. Edwin F. Bowers, one of the group present, had
asked for a demonstration of this character, speaking to
"Patsy" one of the spirit guides controlling Frank Decker.
"Within a short time, Dr. Bowers was requested to arise
and listen to the heart. After listening intently Dr. Bowers
stated that he distinctly heard the heart-beat of the spirit.
"I was then requested to stand up and walk several paces
forward toward the entity, but not to touch the spirit with
my hands, because the difference in the rate of vibration
between the entity and myself might result in shock to the
medium.
"I bent slightly forward so as to hear the heart-beat. As
I did so, my head was grasped by two hands, one with
finger-tips resting on my head, the other holding my chin.
The grasp of these materialized hands was of such a char
acter that my head was held almost as though in a vise.
"Then I felt the right side of my face being pressed
against a chest wall. This chest seemed to be covered by
some material that felt like heavy gauze, although Dr.
Bowers thought this substance felt more like the hair on a
male chest. My face and right ear were pressed against this
gauze-covered chest. The chest seemed to be of a barrel-
shaped nature. There were no respiratory movements.
"However, I distinctly heard the heart beating as rhyth
mically as any heart I have ever listened to, although the
[235]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
muscle tone seemed to be weak, as one would hear in a
myocarditis. Except for this one defect I heard a perfectly
normal apical systolic and diastolic heart sound.
"Dr. M. H. Sturm, another physician present, was then
requested to listen to the heart-beat of the entity and he
confirmed these findings."
HOW JIM REILLY EXPLAINED THE BEATING HEART
AND THE TEETH
Later in the evening, our good spirit friend, Jim Reilly
"came through" and asked how we liked the demonstration
they had produced for us.
I answered "Jim, it was marvellous I A perfectly amaz
ing materialization ! Who was the entity who was mater
ialized? He didn't speak at all, you know."
Jim answered, "The spirit you examined was my old
control, John Benton, who has joined our group. John
couldn't talk to you, because it would use up too much of
the force required to keep his materialized form together."
Then I asked, "Jim, could you tell us how this pulsating
heart could be materialized? The heart sounds were abso
lutely perfect. Yet it would be incredible to believe that
you folks materialized a circulatory system and some form
of fluid that was pumped from the veins and propelled from
the auricle into the ventricle, and from thence into the aorta
and the arterial system."
"No, Doctor," Jim broke in. "We didn't do that
There isn't any blood, or any circulatory system. We just
make a duplicate of a heart out of ectoplasm, and cause it
to contract and expand so as to produce sounds, identical
with the systole and the diastole of a heart beat. That's
all."
"Well, that's enough, Jim" Dr. Blatt commented. "But
tell us what were the teeth made of. They weren't made up
of pulp, dentine and enamel like ordinary teeth, were they?"
[236]
MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF TEETH AND A PULSING HEART
"Oh no, Doctor," said Jim. "They were just made up
of chemicals that we collect and fashion into shape."
"Jim," I asked. "Would it be possible some time, for
you folks to persuade John Benton to materialize the
simulacrum of a pair of lungs for us, and let us listen to the
respiratory sounds, as Professor Crooks listened to the res
piration, or whatever it was, in Katie King's lungs?"
"Sure we can" Jim replied. "One of you bring a stetho
scope next time you come, and we'll see what we can do."
Dr. Sturm, Dr. Blatt and myself are looking forward
eagerly to this experience.
DR. BLATT AND I LISTEN TO RESPIRATORY SOUNDS IN THE
"LUNGS OF A MATERIALIZED spirit"
About three weeks after this amazing experience on
December 5th, Dr. Blatt and myself were accorded the
privilege of listening to the chest sounds of a fully mate
rialized spirit.
One group of investigators was sitting in the inky black
ness, when Patsy came over to me and touched the stetho
scope lying in my lap.
"What's this thing you've got here, Doc
" he asked,
in his breezy way.
"It's a stethoscope, Patsy," I replied.
"What are you going to do with it?" he demanded.
"We hope to be able to listen to the lungs of John
Benton, if the guides can secure sufficient power to material
ize him for us tonight," I responded.
"Well, I'll tell 'em," said Patsy, "and we'll see what
we can do."
Inside of ten minutes Jim Reilly came over to me and
said "Please stand up, Doctor, and let me have the stetho
scope."
I passed the 'scope to Jim. After a few moments he
said, "All right: Now put the ear-pieces in your ears and
[237]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
let me place the diaphragm for you. But don't move. And
don't touch the spirit."
While a few members of the group sang very quietly,
to raise the vibrations, I listened intently.
Jim moved the diaphragm over the chest wall, eliciting
distinctly the familiar friction sounds, caused by passing
the diaphragm over the hair of the chest.
Finally, he stopped it over his heart—which demon
strated beautifully clear heart sounds.
"Jim," I said, "this is a great heart-beat tonight. But
won't you please move the diaphragm up nearer the apex
of the lung?"
Jim followed instructions and, with the rhythmic rise
and fall of the chest walls, caused by the inspiration and
expiration —or by a simulacrum of this—I distinctly heard
the characteristic sounds of pulmonary respiration.
I then snapped the ear tubes out of my ears, handed
the stethoscope to Jim Reilly, and requested that he give
Dr. Blatt an opportunity to check on this.
Dr. Blatt noted the pulsation of the heart very clearly.
Also the friction sounds of the stethoscope being moved over
the chest hair.
However, he detected only two full respirations, ac
companied, of course, by what seemed to be a perfectly
normal expansion and deflation of the chest walls of John
Benton —who "died" more than forty years ago.
Here is some contemporary corroboration of Professor
Crooks' experience with "Katy King."
DR. BLATT CONFIRMS THIS REPORT
Here is Dr. Blatt's report of this amazing experience:
On December 5th, 1935, I brought my stethoscope to
another seance given by Mr. Decker, as his spirit controls
had promised to allow us to auscultate the lungs of a ma
terialized entity.
I gave the stethoscope to Dr. Bowers before the seance
[238]
MATERIALIZES A FULL SET OF TEETH AND A PULSING HEART
began. When the entity was materialized, Dr. Bowers
first listened to the heart and then auscultated the lungs,
stating what he heard as he listened.
The stethoscope was then handed to me by a spirit hand.
Placing the ear-pieces in my ears, I allowed the stethoscope
to hang down, by leaning slightly forward. Almost imme
diately I felt the instrument grasped and heard it placed
against an object.
I again heard the heart beat, as I had heard it with
my ear against the chest wall of "John Benton," on October
8th, 1935. The rhythm was regular —systolic and diastolic
sounds clear, although the muscle tone was weak.
After I announced that I had heard the heart beat, the
stethoscope was moved and I could hear the sounds of
fingers fumbling to place the stethoscope over the lung area.
When the instrument was moved over the chest it dupli
cated exactly the friction sounds, ordinarily produced by
moving the diaphragm over chest hair.
I then heard distinctly a clear, deep inspiration sound,
as one hears in auscultating normal, healthy lung tissue.
The expiration sound was also clear. No abnormal sounds
were heard. After a little more fumbling with the steth
oscope by the spirit control holding the instrument to the
chest wall, the clear inspiration and expiration was again
heard. 1
^-^fW
After this seance, I decided to examine the heart and
lungs of Frank Decker, just as Professor Crooks examined
the materialized spirit of "Katy King," and compared her
chest sounds with those of the medium, Miss Cook.
This I did by first auscultating heart and lungs witeh
my right ear against his chest wall, and then using my
stethoscope.
The difference between this examination and that of the
materialized entity was marked.
Firstly, the chest wall of Mr. Decker was much smaller.
[239]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
The thickness of the ribs less. The resiliency of the chest
wall greater, and the temperature higher.
Secondly, the heart muscle sound was strong, with no
suspicion of a myocardial degeneration. Both systolic and
diastolic sounds were very much louder and clearer, while
the heart rate was much faster.
Thirdly, on auscultating Decker's lungs—both with my
right ear and with the stethoscope —many rales were found
throughout both lungs. These rales were distinctly heard,
while the "lungs" of John Benton were absolutely free from
any abnormal sounds.
I regard these experiences as perhaps the most unusual
I may ever hope to have in this earth life.
[240]
Chapter XXI
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
Sometimes
it's better not to know quite so much than to
know so many things that are not so. One has less
trash to carry around with him, to clutter up his mental
machinery.
Also he has less to apologize for, in case he should
ever bog down too deeply, and feel impelled to extract one
or two of his feet from the mud of misconception —or of
witlessness.
This is particularly true of those who earn their living
by telling their dwindling congregations all about hell and
heaven. To make the story more interesting —and infinitely
more profitable, to the story-spinners —our Catholic breth
ren have added a purgatory which has been found to be
delightfully remunerative.
Indeed, it may be stated that one of the chief sources
of revenue of the Catholic Church derives from its well-
reimbursed attempts to pray parishioners out of purgatory
and land them safely inside the gates of heaven, where they
may be comfortably fitted with wings, provided with harps
and seated at the right hand of God.
This, as before intimated, is a highly lucrative "racket"
and contributes, in no small measure, to the enormous rev
enues of the Vatican. And to the maintenance of luxurious
Catholic churches, ecclesiastical palaces, "retreats," and the
paraphernalia and piffle these exceedingly adroit and spe
cious diplomats have developed, in order to "put on a good
show."
For the assumption of any definite knowledge concern
ing the future life by any religious organization, or by any
[241]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
member of any religious body, except the Spiritualists, is a
form of egotism, expressed in equal parts of fertile fabri
cation, blustering braggadocio and self-hypnosis.
It is a fantastic compilation of stories, which "awoke
from Sleep they told their comrades, and then to Sleep
returned again."
For none can tell of the mysterious road our ministry
discuss so volubly except those who have travelled
it,
and
who have returned to tell of its windings. None can give
us any account of the activities, the experiences and the
status of those who are living in this dimension, except
those who come back and tell us all we are capable of under
standing, concerning their life.
THE BALLYHOO
Nevertheless, respecting the future life, and the means
of entering
it
under the most favorable conditions, our re
ligious tycoons have charted
a
fair course, to pursue which,
they would have us believe,
is
as easy as lying, provided one
is
financially able to command this service.
Keeping out of hell, securing "dispensations" for action
otherwise forbidden, and securing forgiveness of sins, and
absolution, are merely matters to be adjusted by bargain
ing, prestige-pressure, lump-sum payments, endowments, or
"favors."
I
may be permitted to discuss this matter with
a
modicum
of authority, inasmuch as
I
was born, baptized and con
firmed
a
Catholic, in which delightful state of dolce far
ttiente
I
lived until,
in
my early adolescence,
I
stubbed my
toe over Thomas Paine's "Age of Reason."
This fortunate accident, as
I
have stated elsewhere, led
me into the voracious reading of Ingersoll, Volney, Vol
taire, Haeckel and the materialistic philosophers, as well
as the study of comparative religions. Also into the funda
mental principles of science, as taught by Darwin, Tyndall,
Huxley, Humboldt and the chemists, physicists, geologists,
[242]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
archaeologists.ethnologists, paleontologists and anthropolo
gists of the rich Victorian era.
And finally into the literature of psychic phenomena,
and the multitudinous experiences that await one who truly
and honestly investigates this phenomena.
Nevertheless, those of my family who still live, adhere
to the Catholic faith and follow its teachings. And so, I
know, from experience as a Catholic, and as a constant
associate of Catholics, that masses "for the repose of the
soul" are usually paid for in advance. If there is no money
available masses will be missing.
I know that most churchly favors have their price. And
that fundamentalism and dogmatism are among the most
hopeless mental disorders with which any truly honest man
can possibly be inoculated.
Old Omar's shrewd observation falls on deaf ears when
he says to these people:
"/ sent my Soul through the Invisible,
Some letter of that After-life to spell:
And by and by my Soul return' d to me,
And answer' d 'I myself am Heav'n and Hell.'"
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH GRADUALLY COMING OUT OF
ITS STUPOR
It is interesting to know, however, that of late years
the Catholic Church is awakening from its mental and spir
itual lethargy. It is showing some slight interest in acquir
ing knowledge concerning the things it has been teaching
for almost seventeen hundred years, with such bumptious
assurance and "I am Sir Oracles, and when I ope' my lips
let no dog bark" attitude.
For I know one lady who, by special dispensation from
the Pope himself, is sitting regularly in a "developing class,"
and who, I am credibly informed shows great promise of
unusual mediumistic ability.
[243]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
It is interesting to note that this lady is committed in
the dispensation granted her to accept no money for any
service she may render in bringing to those with whom she
is brought in contact a knowledge of a future life and its
blessings.
While the lady does not specifically say so, I naturally
assume that she will be provided for financially, inasmuch
as she has never learned to feed—chameleon-like —on air.
Nor could she, with an artful smile and a pinch on both
cheeks, reimburse the landlord, the butcher, and all those
who still use money as a medium of exchange.
Therefore, one would be justified in believing that the
Pope will provide. And that this very intelligent lady need
entertain no fear of being utterly dependent upon the ravens
for sustenance —a financial arrangement, by the way, which
any of a hundred mediums I know would be only too happy
to accept.
However, even though I am giving three hearty cheers
and a banzai for making possible the development of an
other medium, I fear that, from a standpoint of consistency,
the infallible Pope has shown exceedingly poor judgment.
He has proved once more that even Homer may nod occa
sionally.
For, if this lady to whom he has unbended, is permitted
to disseminate the information which / positively know she
will gather —for I am well acquainted with those spirits
who are imparting this knowledge —and if she freely gives
these facts to the world, the Pope, and all his prelates,
cardinals and priests, and all others who preach heaven for
half-wits, hell's fire and damnation, the immaculate con
ception, eternal perdition to all who have never had a chance
to accept the myth of Jesus Christ —as taught by orthodox
Christian Churches (who may perhaps have never even
heard of Jesus the Blessed Medium) will be forced to seek
other employment, more nearly adjusted to their present
limited mentality.
[244]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
TURN THE VATICAN PAPAL PALACES AND SEMINARIES
OVER TO COMPETENT LECTURERES AND MEDIUMS
Their occupation, like Othello's, may be gone. Their
places may be filled by competent lecturers, capable of
presenting demonstrable truths, and by mediums, qualified
to prove these truths.
Their schools of theology will be supplanted by labo
ratories for the investigation of psychic phenomena. Their
instructors will teach the facts in connection with ectoplasm
and its functions, levitation and its causes, psychic healing,
apports and their significance, the utilization of sensigol gas
in materialization, psychometry and its relations to matter
and vibrational perception, clairvoyance, clairaudience,
clairsenscience, trumpet and independent voice phenomena,
hauntings, poltergeists, black magic and voodooism, obses
sion, rappings and table tippings, crystal gazing, divination
and prophesy, seership in its varied manifestations, the
true significance of prayer and its efficacy, the education and
development of earth-bound entities and their spiritual evo
lution, spirit paintings and photographs, automatic writing
and mediumship of all phases.
And this will be the end of the innumerable profitable
enterprises in which the church is now engaged.
For if it could only be generally known that marriage
is a man-made institution, based primarily on a biological
urge, plus the stimulus of economic determinism and social
advancement—what Catholic would pay Pope Pius XI for
a special dispensation in order to marry again, while his
first wife may still be alive?
A HIGH WATER MARK OF IGNORANCE
Who would be so ignorant and nincompoopish as to
attempt to buy masses for the repose of his soul, or the
soul of any of his departed relatives, when he is definitely
told by spirits themselves —who are undergoing this process
—that forgiveness of sins must be earned by atonement, ex
[245]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
pressed in service either to a fellow spirit, or to spirits here
in the flesh, who may profit by such ministrations.
And who further knows that vicarious atonement is a
chimera, based upon the mythological premise that the sac
rifice of a human being—or an animal —may propitiate an
angry god, and bring favor to the anthropoid who is doing
the sacrificing —or paying to have it done for him.
If the Pope could be credibly informed that no death
bed repentance can wash away a life's record of vicious
living—no matter whose blood is used for this purpose,
what amount of holy oil is rubbed in, or how much holy
water is sprinkled on the sinner—he would realize that he
is only sawing the limb between himself and the golden
Tree of Plenty, by helping to provide honest information
in connection with the hereafter.
At the same time it might dawn upon him that he is
playing around the slippery edges of the pit of spiritualism,
into which those who fall are lost—irretrievably doomed
to consort for three days longer than eternity with satanic
spirits and devils, hardly to be described outside of the
pages of Dante.
I am reminded of this because of the fact that in at
tending the 39th Annual Convention of the General As
sembly of Spiritualists, June 20th to 23rd, 1935, I was,
during one of the sessions, placed directly behind three
well-nourished priests, who wore the usual clerical disguise
of the collar buttoned in front, instead of the back.
THE HEAR NOT SEE NOT SPEAK NOT TRIPLETS
These priests sat as impassive as three statues of
Buddha during some of the most unusual evidential mes
sages I have ever heard.
They gave a remarkable imitation of those Three Graces
—The Hear Not See Not Speak Not Triplets —when I
arose to my feet and acknowledge the details of a really
[246]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
amazing message which came to me through Raymond
Burns.
Mr. Burns gave the names of five different friends
on the spirit side of life, identifying them thoroughly. One
description, in particular, was extremely interesting. For
the young chap who came through had committed suicide,
a fact which Mr. Burns mentioned in detail.
Three of these discarnate friends I had never previously
contacted. Indeed, they had passed completely out of my
objective memory some forty years ago. These facts were
stressed in the messages, yet the poker-faced priests be
trayed not the slightest token of conscious interest in all
this.
Raymond Burns might just as well have been talking
Choctaw so far as any evidence of understanding emanated
from them regarding the significance of these messages.
I noted this same impassivity in another priest at the
Sunday afternoon session. One of the mediums brought
him a message with such assurance that I would have wa
gered one of my knee-caps the information conveyed was
one hundred per cent correct. I was further convinced of
this because the medium in question had been extraordinarily
accurate in all her other messages.
Yet the reverend father displayed only an owlish non
chalance in this communication from a departed soul, who
had taken the trouble to come to him. It really was love's
labor lost.
However, this indifference may have arisen from the
fact that these men were not seriously interested in all this
pother. Their minds had probably been made up for them
when they were little boys. And now they had neither the
initiative nor the willingness to breach the coral-encrusted
reefs of a consciousness that had withstood so successfully
the fierce batterings of science and common-sense through
all their cloistered years.
My friend, Joseph de Wyckoff, is one hundred and ten
[247]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
per cent correct in saying: "When one considers the uni
form antagonism of the old-established religions and creeds,
with their magnificent edifices for worship, their fine schools
and seminaries for preparation of ministers and propa
gandists, their social and benevolent institutions, their ex
tensive missionary work, the wealth and ramifications of
their supporters and sponsors, their political influence, etc.,
all of which Spiritualism woefully lacks, and adds to this
a biased and unfriendly press, coupled with the gross ig
norance of psychic facts by most of its minions, it is noth
ing short of marvelous that Spiritualism is able to survive."
"Unquestionably, Spiritualism, as a religion is not pop
ular in many circles. I am inclined to agree with Hannen
Swaffer that as such it has no future, but that as a truth
it will be accepted sooner or later by the whole world."
WHAT RELIGIOUS TEACHERS REALLY BELIEVE ABOUT THE
FUTURE LIFE
Of course, we know that there is a wide diversity of
opinion among religious teachers as to the future life and
its status.
The English Bishop Gore affirms : "We believe for cer
tain in the resurrection of the body." He qualifies this by
saying "This does not mean that the particles of our former
bodies, which have decayed, will be collected again; but it
means that our same selves shall be re-clothed in a spiritual
body."
This means, if it means anything at all, that our "same
selves" (perhaps Gore may know what he is trying to say)
wait around until some implied Judgment Day shall help
them to a resurrection in a "spiritual body."
Arthur Ford tells me he has catalogued some seventy
thousand books and important monographs on spiritualism,
its meaning and its attested phenomena. It would seem,
from Dr. Gore's less than elementary knowledge of the sub
[248]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
ject, that he has never read even one of these books or
monographs.
Or looked at the pictures of ectoplasm formation, levi-
tation, spirit extras, materializations, or other proofs of
spiritistic activities, found in many of these publications.
However, the rain of hypnotic words, and the deft jug
gling of meaningless ideas, have rocked many unthinking,
unreasoning congregations to sleep through all the centu
ries. It must be admitted, however, that Bishop Manning,
of New York, comes very close to professing spiritualism
when he says:
"When I enter there (heaven) I shall be myself. This
personality, these tempers and tastes, this character that I
am forming here will be mine there, I shall be seen as my
self, and I shall be judged by what I am, I shall know my
dear ones in the other life. I shall see and be seen, I shall
speak and be spoken to."
The Bishop is to be congratulated on his cocksuredness
respecting the other life, and just what it may mean to him.
It might, however, pain the good bishop dreadfully were
he to be informed, on arriving in Summer Land, that he
has a couple of ten-quart hatfulls of debits to work off, be
fore he can even be considered as a possible candidate for
heaven.
BISHOP MANNING'S DERELICTION
To give Bishop Manning some little hint as to what
may be awaiting him I may remind him now that this thor
oughly egoistic statement, made in his Easter Sermon of
1
93 1, is the only reference, so far as I have ever been able
to ascertain, in which he has ever definitely committed him
self to a belief in the continuity of life after death, and the
persistence of personality.
However, it is unfortunate that, with all of Bishop
Manning's tremendous prestige and influence, he has never
amplified this entirely egocentric prophesy (note the I's,
[249]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
me's and mine's in his brief paragraph) and told his con
gregation and his diocese what the average individual—who
doesn't wear his halo quite so prominently over his left ear
—may expect in his future life.
It is also greatly to be regretted that Bishop Manning
has never, from his high office, protested against the per
secution of spiritualistic mediums. Or openly criticized the
terribly unfair and frightfully prejudiced attitude of the
press, and the bigoted, misinformed and materialistic su
periority complex of the majority of newspaper and maga
zine writers.
It may also be debited against Bishop Manning that he
has never invited Arthur Ford, or any other qualified ex
positor of spiritism, to occupy his pulpit and tell his people
the real meaning of heaven and hell, and just what should
be done to achieve progress in the next life.
It is also a pity that Manning has never told his audi
ences anything about telekenisis. Or the lever-like mechan
ism of the ectoplasmic rods of Crawford. Or the determina
tion of carbon dioxide in the expired breath of a mater
ialized entity, proved by means of the baryta test. Or the
fascinating study of "Katie King" made by Professor
Crooks. Or give them a thousand other convincing evi
dences of the continuity of life and of the ability of the
discarnate to communicate with us, here on this plane.
It might have had a profound effect on the spiritual
status of Bishop Manning in the next world—to say noth
ing of the impetus it would have given sane thinking, and
a real knowledge of the future among his communicants.
HOW OTHER DIVINES DODGE THE ISSUE
However, Manning partially committed himself—or
else he blundered into—a confession, which is skillfully
dodged by many other heaven and hell experts.
Dr. S. D. McConnell, Episcopal divine, would kow-tow
to the wisdom of the East for help in the religious ring
[250]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
around-the-rosy. He speaks of an "astral body," omitting
even the remotest attempt to differentiate the astral from
the spiritual body. Or to explain the important differences
that exist between these two psychic "bodies."
Professor Williams Adam Brown, of Union Theo
logical Seminary, contents himself with a simple affirmation
of the survival of personality without, however, the slight
est attempt to explain what personality
is,
how
it
behaves,
how
it
could possibly levitate
a
piano, or give the grip and
pass-word of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master
Mason. Or do any of the thousand and one things done
by spirits
in
every part of the world every day.
Dr. Fosdick utters "an infinite deal of nothing," when
he speaks about the "execution of our social purposes
in
the
Other Life"—without any reference whatsoever to what
those who live
in
the "Other Life" have told him about their
"social purposes" there, and of the scope and significance
of these "social purposes."
Dr. Van Dusen, however, makes Fosdick seem almost
a
33rd-degree Spiritualist
by
comparison with himself, when
he confesses his ignorance
by
twittering: "Concerning the
nature of life after death we know practically nothing, save
one thing —and we want to know only one thing —that it
is
good."
Would any sane person pay good money for the privi
lege of descending into the sub-cellars of unintelligence with
Dr. Van Dusen, who frankly confesses that he knows prac
tically nothing" concerning the nature of life after death,
and doesn't want to know anything —except "that
it
is
good."
And yet Van Dusen accepts an oleaginous compensation
from his deluded parishioners
in
exchange for this almost
pathologic drivel, devoid of even the most elementary knowl
edge or nebulous experience regarding the future life and
what
it
should mean to Van Dusen's dupes.
There isn't
a
spiritualist
in
the world who wouldn't blush
[251]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
for shame to admit such profound ignorance of matters
that have been demonstrated and proved beyond the slight
est question of doubt—not thousands, but millions of times.
THE RABBI WHO KNEW MAIMONIDES
And, lest it be assumed that our Jewish friends have
any more exact or comprehensive knowledge concerning the
future life than have our Christian brethren, may I state
that I had the pain of listening to Rabbi Jacob Katz, Chap
lain of Sing Sing Prison, on Sunday afternoon, June 23,
1935-
The Rabbi spoke before a convention of spiritualists,
giving what was represented as the generally accepted Jew
ish attitude concerning the next life.
Rabbi Katz is the most forceful and dogmatic speaker
I have heard in many years. He can say nothing in more
words, and with more profound and convincing emphasis,
than a Barnum and Baily barker. His words are "full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing."
Mr. Katz took up three-quarters of an hour of the valu
able time of some six hundred people developing the gen-
eology of Jewish religious belief.
He began with Rabbi Pithecanthropus Erectus —first
among the great thinkers —and with his ideas of sheol. Then
gradually he worked down through the centuries—giving
verbatim et literatim quotations from a dozen or fifteen
other outstanding rabbinical authorities —whose mouths had
been stopped with dust ages before Bullfinch wrote his
"Age of Fable" or Grimm and Andersen their "Fairy
Tales."
What was said by each of these profound Jewish stu
dents, so far as the next stage in our spiritual evolution is
concerned, was just as inconsequential and outmoded as
anything that Aetius, Oribasius, Jondisapur and Avicenna
could possibly tell a modern physician about hyper-pyrexia,
deficiency disorders, metatarsalgia in relation to scoliosis
[252]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
or spinal mal-alignment, or syphilis as a factor in nervous
and mental degenerative pathologies.
However, Reverend Katz plowed bravely along —quot
ing authority after authority, with the proper Hebraic in
flection—until finally he came to Maimonides (born in
Cordova 1135 A.D., a devoted Talmudian, founder of a
short-lived school of philosophy, a dilettante in medicine,
and perhaps best remembered for his essay on poisons. He
died in 1204).
It seems that Maimonides solved all the really impor
tant problems in connection with the hereafter, according
to Dr. Katz. Maimonides concluded that the qualities most
greatly to be desired in man are service to his fellows and
selflessness toward himself.
It one could become selfless, the whatever it is that
activates him on this plane, would find its resting place in
an absorption into the cosmic soul—or something to this
general effect.
A FEW FACTS THAT RABBI KATZ FORGOT TO MENTION
About the out-of-the-window levitation of D. D. Home,
the "ectoplasmic limb" of Palladino, the wax molds of Dr.
Geley, the thumb-prints of the Margery mediumship, the
foretelling of the Indian earthquake of 1934 by Mrs.
Crossly, and the thousands of other well-attested facts and
phenomena of spiritism Katz seemed to be just as ignorant
as was Maimonides.
And if he ever read Schrenck-Notzing's account of what
many class as a miracle, Dr. Katz never mentioned
it.
You'll
find the original
in
Professor von Schrenck Notzing's "Phe
nomena of Materialization."
"On continuing the sitting,
I
asked the medium whether
some of the plastic material used for the materialization
process could be placed
in
a
German-silver box
I
had brought
for the purpose. The box had
a
well-closing lid and con
tained
a
procelain dish.
It
had not left my pocket. While
[253]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
the medium's hands clutched the curtains and remained dis
tinctly visible, I brought the open box, held in my right
hand, close to the curtain, at the level of about a foot
above her right hand, while, at the same time, Mme. Bisson
held my right wrist. At that moment the other two persons
saw three well-developed fingers coming out of the curtain
and touching the box. I myself could only see one finger,
since I sat too far towards the left. This finger entered
the open box on its narrow side and executed several shak
ing motions. I seized this moment to close the lid and hide
the box in my pocket. On examining the dish afterwards
in a white electric light I found on the inner narrow side
of the porcelain dish, as if stuck to
it,
two pieces which,
under the microscope, were recognized to be human skin.
"Eva's hands, which held the curtains, remained during
this experiment visibly under our control. During the final
examination no defect of skin could be found either on the
girl's hands or her feet.
"It appeared, from
a
microscopic examination, that the
tissue was
a
piece of superficial epidermis, 16 mm. long,
ii mm. wide, and
%
mm. thick. Even
a
simple magnifi
cation shows the characteristic marbling of the skin, and
a
horny thickening of one-half of it."
Rabbi Katz and Maimonides are mental contemporaries,
so far as their knowledge of the future life
is
concerned. It
is
greatly to be deplored, because the man has great possi
bilities,
if
only he could pry himself loose from 12th cen
tury hypotheses and take
a
little interest
in
20th century
proven facts.
THE ORDINARY RUN OF THE MILL
However, all that
I
have been saying in these pages
is
ancient history to most spiritists —even allowing for the
utmost
in
mental decrepitude, eelism or cuttle-fish obscuran
tism among the ecclesiasts.
It
is
interesting to know, how
ever, that this same combination of stupidity and cupidity
[254]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
is also practiced in England. For I read in the "Psychic
News" that Dr. R. Craig Dunlop, a Carlisle surgeon, had
questioned nine ministers of various denominations in dif
ferent parts of the country on survival after death.
One parson told him that, though he naturally sub
scribed to the orthodox teaching about heaven, he really
was "not terribly interested."
Another said that he was so busy trying to get his
fellows a square deal in this life he had no time to think
about the next.
"With the remaining five," said Dr. Dunlop, "I was
unable to get them past the hackneyed and quite untrue
statement about 'these things being widely hidden from
us.'
"Five expressed total unbelief in the possibility of com
munication with the Other Side, and one gave it as his
opinion that all such phenomena were allied to necromancy,
and undoubtedly of the devil."
All this represents a fairly accurate cross-section of the
ministerial mind.
WHAT SPIRITS THEMSELVES THINK OF THE CLERGY
In this connection it might be well for the clergy to know
what spirits themselves think of the matter. Here is part
of a message from the fully materialized spirit of William
Denton, given in clear view of a score or more people some
years ago.
"In my investigations of conditions in the spirit world
I find that there are those who do not realize that there is
a possibility and a way of spirit return to those yet inhabit
ing the mortal form.
"I find others who do not care to return. On the other
hand, I meet some whose highest heaven is in hunting up
the darkened ones and teaching them the way of life and
light.
[255]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"I meet some wondering ones who do not realize that
they are out of the mortal body, and whom it sometimes
takes their guides a long time to lead to a consciousness
of their true condition.
"Then, again, I meet some who are absolutely lost and
in total darkness because of a false Theological Train
ing. Such go wandering and moaning about in search of
a personal God seated on a great white throne, and their
Saviour, the only begotten Son of God, sitting at the right
hand of God; and great convoys of angels flying in the midst
of heavens and round about the great white throne, with
golden harps in their hands. They were looking for St.
Peter with the key to unlock the gate of heaven for them,
as was promised by their priests for the many monetary
contributions they had made to their respective churches
during their Earth-life, but no St. Peter nor Gate of Hea
ven were to be found anywhere. From the time they were
born until they reach the hour of death they never knew or
dreamed of any possible different condition to meet them
in the great beyond. These are the hardest of all cases
to be led to the real and saving truth and light. They
only knew what the priests taught them, and they were,
greatly disappointed not to find what they were promised.
"But, my friends, words cannot express the trouble and
awful retribution awaiting those teachers of false theology
who did not themselves believe their own teachings. When
they pass to this side of life, they hear those who were
their disciples asking them: 'Where is our Saviour you told
us about? Where is our God, preached to us? Where
shall we find the great city of paved streets, and the golden
throne, and the harps of gold, and the city of jasper walls?
"Often when a benevolent spirit undertakes to teach
these their true conditions, he is driven away as the fabled
'Diabolism' the priesthood have taught. All the clouds of
false teaching must eventually be rolled away, and those
lost ones must be redeemed from their darkened conditions
[256]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
by being filled with knowledge and truth instead of the false
and darkened theological training of the ignorant priests
and pastors."
BUT HOW CAN YOU BE SURE?
When I tell people these things —as familiar to me as
are my two thumbs —I am often asked "But how can you
be so sure of these matters? How can you speak so posi
tively about these things?
To this I answer I can speak with absolute conviction
concerning heaven and hell and spiritual evolution, because
I know so many, and have met so many wonderful souls,
who are living in this state of being, and who tell me what
I am telling you.
I should say that, during the past thirty-five years, I
have questioned perhaps five hundred different spirits con
cerning their present status.
Their discussions of the matter are just as intelligible
and concise and coherent as though Mr. Brisbane himself
were discussing a series of articles or editorials he might
want me to write for him.
As a concrete example, only a short time ago a group
of us sat with Frank Decker and Mrs. Ethel Post—perhaps
the two best trumpet mediums in the world.
In all my experience I have never seen better and more
conclusive phenomena produced. It was on this evening,
by the way, that I cut the lock of hair from the head of my
mother, fully materialized from spirit life, as I shall de
scribe in another chapter.
During the course of the evening my name was called
and an entity speaking as plainly as Mr. Brisbane might
speak, introduced himself as George Bowers, of Cleveland,
Ohio, who had passed over in the early years of this cen
tury.
He said "I know you have never met me, but I know
you. And inasmuch as all us Bowers' root in a common
[257]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
stock, I thought I'd take the liberty of coming in and having
a little chat with you."
He continued, "You know that, while you were born in
Boston, your father, whom I have often met over here,
and your uncle Henry were born in Stettin, Germany."
I said "That's right, George (one never calls a spirit
who may be a distant relative 'Mister'). But how did you
come to know about me?"
He answered "Well, I used to be a piano-tuner and I
love a good piano. Your wife, who is sitting on the oppo
site side of the room, has a beautiful Mason and Hamlin
parlor grand, bought before that firm went into the com
bine. And before pianos were turned out like Ford trucks.
I noticed a week or so ago that it needed tuning. I'm glad
she had it tuned yesterday."
I said "That's correct, George. But now that you're
here, do you mind if I ask you a few questions?"
"Fire away," he replied. "I'll be glad to tell you any
thing I know."
SPIRIT GEORGE BOWERS DISCOURSES
Then followed a ten-minute barrage of questions by
myself, and several other members of a deeply interested
group, the answers to which I sincerely wish could be pasted
in the hat of every recalcitrant cleric in the world.
Briefly, they were to the effect that heaven and hell
have no existence, except as a state of mind : that remission
of sins and promotion in spiritual life are gained only by
consistent worthiness in thought and act, and in helpful
service rendered.
Also, that mental medicine and the arts and sciences are
cultivated even more assiduously and intelligently on their
side of life than on ours, and that nothing on this plane
could compare with the facilities for education and train
ing that have been developed in "Summer Land."
[258]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
He added that, to consult spirits regarding one's per
sonal affairs —especially on matters of finance or business
—is absolutely foreign to their scheme of things.
It may even invite disaster. For the spirit, as a rule,
knows no more about business affairs, in his changed estate,
than he did while on this plane. In fact, he usually knows
much less, inasmuch as his attention and interests are cen
tered on things of infinitely greater importance, in his world,
than horse-racing, stock-gambling, or real estate speculation.
However, in questions that involve health, the preven
tion of accidents or serious illness, the exposing of one who
is attempting to defraud in business or to cheat in love,
helpful suggestions and sage council may often be advanced.
To follow this advice may be to prevent death, accident,
serious illness, financial or marital disaster, or many other
of the "countless shocks that flesh is heir to."
In brief, George Bowers corroborated what I have heard
a half thousand times before, and have read perhaps an
other half a thousand times.
This corresponds with what Rev. Arthur Chambers has
said in his book "Our Life After Death," which has run
through one hundred and twenty editions.
W. F. Stead's "Letters from Julia," Rev. G. Vale Owen's
"Facts and the Future Life," F. W. H. Myers' "Human
Personality," Sir Oliver Lodge's "Raymond," Dr. Wick-
land's "Thirty Years Among the Dead," Lillian Walbrook's
"The Case of Lester Coltman" and hundreds of other in
formative and inspiring works confirm these messages.
WHAT LESTER COLTMAN HAS TO SAY ABOUT SPIRIT
ACTIVITIES
Lester Coltman, concerning whose "other life" activi
ties Miss Albrook writes so fascinatingly, tells us : "The in
terest evinced by earth beings in the character of our homes
and the establishments where our work is carried on, is
[259]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
natural, of course, but description is not too easy to convey
in earth terms. My state of being will serve as an example
from which you may deduce others' modes of life, accord
ing to temperament and type of mind.
"My work is continued here as it began on earth, in
scientific channels, and in order to pursue my studies I
visit frequently a laboratory possessing extraordinarily com
plete facilities for carrying on of experiments. I have a
home of my own, delightful in the extreme, complete with
library filled with books of reference —historical, scientific,
medical —and, in fact, with every type of literature. To
us these books are as substantial as those used on earth are
to you. I have a music-room containing every mode of
sound-expression. I have pictures of rare beauty and fur
nishings of exquisite design. I am living here alone at
present, but friends frequently visit me as I do them in
their homes, and if a faint sadness at times takes possession
of me, I visit those I loved most on earth.
"It is very difficult to tell you about work in the spirit
world. It is allotted to each one his portion, according to
how he has progressed. If a soul has come direct from
earth, or any material world, he must then be taught all
he has neglected in the former existence, in order to make
his character grow to perfection. As he has made those
on earth suffer, so he himself suffers. If he has a great
talent, that he brings to perfection here: for if you have
beautiful music, or any other talent, we have them here
much more. Music is one of the great moving forces of
our world; but although arts and talents are carried to their
fullest, it is the great work of all souls to perfect them
selves for the Eternal Life."
The buccolic yokel or the semi-sophisticated zany—
reading descriptions such as Lester Coltman gives—but
which are confirmed by scores of thousands of messages
of a similar character —will smirkingly want to know who
curries the horse. And do they have running hot and cold
[260]
WHAT DO THEY REALLY KNOW ABOUT HELL?
water over there? And how do they build their houses?
And what do they do for building material?
To these questions the student of spiritism can only
reply that respecting horse-cleaning and the hot and cold
water supply only a Merry Andrew or a nit-wit can answer.
Respecting the building of structures or the simulacra
of musical instruments, laboratory equipment and other
"material" things, and just how this may be accomplished
—1 can only say that if spirits can build up the most highly
evolved and complex organism in nature —a human body—
with power to think, talk and act, why can't they perfect a
synthetic house, a violin or a painting?
Why, if they can build up a head of hair—a lock of
which may be cut off, examined microscopically, incinerated,
and analyzed chemically —why cannot they—working under
God's laws, make a tree?
Why, if they can develop perfumes of ravishing odor,
and colors of gorgeous hue —repeatedly seen in spirit paint
ings—cannot they perfect for themselves a similacrum of
a garden —a replica of the one they so loved on earth?
There are more things in heaven, Horatio, that we ever
dreamed could be developed.
HOW OU1SE VAUPEL SUMS IT UP
Ouise Vaupel, a beautiful soul, an informed spiritist,
and a clear and lucid thinker, in one of her lectures had this
to say: "You yourself are a spiritual entity, clothed in a
material body—all the material world being merely a ex
pression of invisible spiritual force that controls the body.
You are an individualized part of the infinite spirit of life
—a part of the boundless universe of life, in the body—or
in the spirit. . . .
When anyone tells you that spiritualism is a fraud, that
those who practice it are charlatans, and those who believe
in it are dupes, you may know that either he knows noth
ing of the subject or else he is deliberately falsifying.
[261]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
"When a priest tells you spiritualism is a satanic de
lusion ask him how he knows this. For Spiritualists know
nothing of the devil, as painted by the priesthood. Indeed,
there is really no such thing as an evil spirit—in the strict
sense of the term. There are low and undeveloped spirits
—uneducated spirits, and who have not risen above selfish,
low desires. But even these undeveloped souls are given
every opportunity to rise and unfold, when rightly taught.
"The infinite spirit of all life is good —as the great
Masters have told us. Therefore, to declare that any spirit
is evil (Satanic) is to denounce the great spirit of life as an
evil spirit, of finite power.
"No one has ever seen a personal God; or a devil. We
have seen ignorant, sick, greedy, perverted human beings
—whom we call evil—but who will in time unfold, and know
the truth, and cast out of their minds the false gods and
imaginary devils that have been persistently suggested to
their undeveloped minds and souls.
"Most Gods are the creations of the human mind, cre
ated because of a lack of understanding of the laws of life.
These God-conceptions have been passed down through the
ages to the ignorant.
"However, Spiritualism teaches us that only the knowl
edge that leads mankind to do good instead of evil can
save the human race. Each of us must atone for his own
sins by suffering the penalty, according to nature's law.
"Spiritualism is not a religion. It is the science of life.
And while religion may have brought a hope of immortality
Spiritualism has brought knowledge of the facts, to prove
the immortality of the soul."
[262]
Chapter XXII
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S
ROSY CHEEKS
ne experience with a spirit-baiter gives a rough idea
V^/ of the general attitude and the superficiality of those
who deny the truth of spiritism.
I had sent a manuscript, culled from various chapters
of this book, to Dr. Runes, Editor of The Modern Psy
chologist —for whose interesting magazine I had written
a number of articles. The story bore the trickily teasing
title "Is Spiritism A Fraud?"
A few days later I met Dr. Runes, who said, "Say,
Bowers, you don't think you can get away with that stuff,
do you? And persuade really scientific men to take it
seriously?"
I replied, "If they are really scientific men they will take
it seriously. Only those who are ignorant of even the fun
damentals of psychic phenomena, who are too stupid or too
prejudiced ever to investigate the subject in a serious way,
or those whose jobs would be jeopardized by admitting the
million-times proven facts of spiritism would be other than
interested, edified or even elated by the report."
Runes then said "Well, Professor Jastrow says he's
going to tear the hide off you and nail it on the barn door,
if you print that article. He's one of the biggest men in the
country, and has a radio following of a couple of million
people."
I said, "I wouldn't care if he was the Pope of Rome
or the President of Patagonia. Just tell the peevish pro
fessor for me that while he's tearing my hide off I'll be
[263]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
scratching his back and patting his rosy cheeks. And tell
him also that there's no man on earth whom I would be
afraid to meet either in debate or in the pages of any
paper or magazine that will print the stuff as I write it. For
the informed spiritist is the only person who really knows
anything about the future life, and the status of those living
in that dimension."
Runes said "All right. But don't say I didn't warn you.
I'm going to give a copy of your story to Professor Jastrow,
let him answer it, and print your story and his reply
in
the
same issue."
I
said "That's swell
I
All you need to do then
is
to give
me the opportunity of replying to his inanities, and every
thing will be lovely."
Runes said "That's only fair. And it'll give Dr. Jas
trow
a
chance to get back at you again."
A consummation, say
I,
for which
I
am devoutly hoping
and praying —as
it
may give me still further opportunities
for sweeping the fog of ignorance from his petrified brain,
and from the ossified or immaturely developed brains of
those who believe as he does.
And now,
if
you will turn back these pages and glance
through Chapter VI and Chapter XV, you'll see most of the
article which Professor Jastrow "criticized." Then turn
back to Dr. Jastrow's statement.
REPRINT FROM "THE MODERN PSYCHOLOGIST"
ECTOPLASM AND PSYCHIC STRUCTURES
By JOSEPH JASTROW
Psychics,
like politics, makes strange bed-fellows.
There are slum mediums and there are "Metapsychical
Institutes." The case of "Margery"
is
presented in an
elaborate, though specious discourse to an academic audi
[264]
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S ROSY CHEEKS
ence as an important subject of research. The process of
naturalizing the supernatural has occupied the best minds
for centuries. The urge to rationalize still finds a strong
expression in the pursuit of the same interest, which from
cave-man days peopled the world with spirits and found or
demanded evidence of their presence.
Ectoplasm is presented as organized cellular matter in
the first stages of the production of a living being. Accom
panying its formation from the body of the medium are
violent muscular actions, groans, and gasps, as if in child
birth, and thus called "mediumistic labor." The theory is
expressed in the terms of biology and even embryology;
but the data are stumps, rods, limbs, efflorescence, mobile
clouds—reminiscent of Hamlet's "much like a camel or a
whale."
Strangely enough for a biologically creative energy, the
ectoplasmic process can also fashion clothes. "The gar
ments are usually veils and draperies, white, like muslin, or
cloud-like." At times —but under lax conditions, particu
larly when Madame Bisson was alone with the medium and
the cameras—there appeared flat faces as if drawn on
crinkled tissue or paper; and under still other conditions,
full-length phantom-like flat forms duly appareled in mod
ern dress. The modernistic ectoplasmic stage-effect, while
losing some of the personal appeal of the old-time mater
ializations, is far more impressive to the scientific mind.
By recourse to ectoplasm one may believe in marvels and
save one's face.
The glory and repertory of ectoplasm under the artistry
of Eva C. and her imitators is presented in hundreds of
photographs. Whatever it may be as a stuff, as a theory it
created a super-world. A gauze produced a cosmos. Upon
it Professor Richet erected a metaphysics, transcending all
physics and biology and psychology.
It is not Eva C. but Charles Richet who created ecto
plasm. She but made the substance, which would have com
[265]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
manded slight interest; he made the theory which arrested
the world's attention. The theory was a challenge—a chal
lenge of the rightness and adequacy of the laboratories and
the concepts of science, which with all their apparatus,
method and research, their analyzing, synthesizing, explain
ing, discovering, never found a trace of ectoplasm or of a
psychic structure. Ectoplasm precipitates an issue. Either
Eva C. and her ilk are frauds, or the physicists, biologists,
and psychologists of our enlightened age have missed the
unsuspected climax of their pursuits. In this instance, we
must believe one way or the other — and in the other, mad
ness lies.
REPRINT FROM "THE MODERN PSYCHOLOGIST"
PROFESSOR JASTROW EXPLAINS THE NATURE
OF ECTOPLASM
A Reply to DR. JASTROW
(The following communication from Dr. Boviers, in reply to an article
•which appeared in the August issue of The Modern Psychologist, "//
Spiritism a Fraud?" is offered in an effort to present fairly both sides of
the question.)
Professor Jastrow, who is ballyhooed over the radio as
"The Herald of Sanity" —which is certainly modest enough
to satisfy anyone for whom detoxinizing and psychological
treatment is not imperatively demanded—honored me by
making a "statement" in connection with an article I wrote
in the August issue of The Modern Psychologist, "Is
Spiritism A Fraud?"
The "statement" was accompanied by three fascinating
photographs, reproduced from Jastrow's "Wish and Wis
dom" "by permission of the Appleton-Century Co."
Two of these photos were taken from Professor
Schrenck-Notzing's magnificent work, "Phenomena of Ma
terialization." The other (from the International News
Co., by the way, and not "by permission of the Appleton
[266]
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S ROSY CHEEKS
Century Co. ) , shows Father de Heredia —a prestidigitating
priest, with an apparently innocuous face —demonstrating
"how ectoplasm is concealed in a false finger and in a comb
—both of which objects appear in the photographs of Eva
C.'s materializations" — according to Jastrow's caption
under the illustrations.
The first of these photos is obviously "doctored," as
the closest scrutiny of the corresponding photo in my copy
of Schrenck-Notzing (Kegan Paul, French, Trubner and
Co., London, 1920) shows. No thread connecting the ecto-
plasmic material with Eva's mouth can be seen, even under
magnification of the heaviest reading glasses.
As regards Professor Jastrow's nit-witted observation
relating to a false finger or a comb which can manu
facture faces, capable of being photographed, and heads
covered with human hair, which can be cut from the ma
terialized entity, under the absolutely perfect test conditions
adopted by Schrenck-Notzing—any one believing this must
be suffering from either toxic amblyopia, partial paralysis,
or gray atrophy of the optic nerve. Or else from some
form of vesania, characterized by delusions and hallucina
tions.
AGAINST IGNORANCE EVEN THE GODS THEMSELVES STRIVE
IN VAIN
The photo posed by de Heredia —who inveigles thou
sands of dollars yearly out of duped Catholics by his faked
"exposures" —is supposed to prove that certain phases of
cheap trickery—employed by thieves or rascals masquerad
ing as spiritistic mediums—are the basis of all psychic phe
nomena.
On first thought the vapid attempts of this proponent
of popery to prove that millions of spiritualists are zanies
and low grade morons —because they believe in the proved
continuity of life instead of a mythological hash, founded
on faith, and in our ability to communicate with and witness
[267]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
demonstrations by those discarnate ones—evokes a certain
amount of pity.
One feels an overwhelming sympathy for any man who
can read, without awe and wonder, that there are thousands
of people in this world, including myself, who have seen,
talked with, kissed and held in their arms, the materialized
spirits of those whose bodies—apart from their teeth and
bones —have long since fed the maw of the grave worm or
merged with the drifting air above the incinerator chimney.
It is even more incomprehensible when we learn that
these troglodytes not only haven't the slightest desire to
investigate the truth of this matter, but that they vehe
mently attack, the veracity, the credibility, even the sanity
of those who describe these marvels —and bring with them
overwhelming proof of the verity of the phenomena.
How else can we explain the bitter animosity of those
members of the clergy who laugh to scorn the evidence —
presented by many of the greatest thinkers of modern times
—to the effect that telekinesis, levitation of human beings
or inanimate objects and the bringing into a closed, sealed
room of apports —live fish, birds, mice, flowers, coins—even
a twenty pound fragment of a tombstone?
HOW BRAYING CAN BE DEVELOPED INTO A FINE ART
There are those who bray at the reports that poltergeists
have been persuaded to leave haunted houses; that many in
sane persons have been deobsessed of an obsessing spirit;
that thousands pronounced incurably ill, have been made
well; that millions of people have had prophetic warnings
or been given helpful advice.
And that glasolalia, psychometry, clairaudience, clair
voyance, clairsencience, transfiguration, teleplastics, direct
voice and trumpet mediumship, slate writing and communi
cation by rapping and table tipping are, to millions of people
facts, as definitely proved as any fact within the realm of
knowledge.
[268]
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S ROSY CHEEKS
Approximately seventy thousand books have been writ
ten —a veritable mine of the most important information in
the world —giving every conceivable detail concerning the
future life—and the phenomena that those now living in that
life bring to us.
And yet Professor Jastrow, to bolster up his eunochoid
"statement", drags in by the back of the neck a charlatan
priest, with a head like a gnome, who has been telling the
world for years that "Spooks are constructed of flimsy
gauze, cut to represent a human figure; that all phenomena
produced in the seance room is trickery, intended to fool
credulous dupes who pay to be bamboozled by this fol-de-
rol; and that anyone who believes in this insult to intelligence
should have his head examined."
These may not be de Heredia's exact words, but they
convey accurately his strabismic ideas.
However, I can't blame de Heredia for attempting to
prove that the sneaking vicious tricks of twenty-five per cent
of mediums are the stock in trade of all mediums. First
and foremost, because he uses exactly the same unscrupulous
methods himself, as I have evidence to prove, and which I
shall unveil in a later book.
And secondly, because he is caught fast in the net of
economic determinism —just as are most people who are
not financially independent. Under the strain of similar
belly-pinching necessity millions of other people become pick
pockets, pimps and prostitutes.
However, if all Catholics in the world knew what we —
who have talked with scores, if not hundreds of spirits know
about life on the other side of the veil —there would be a
terrible slump in the demand for red and black robes, rosary
beads, holy water and collars that button in the back of
the neck.
If all true believers knew that heaven, hell, purgatory,
vicarious atonement, the forgiveness of sins and masses
for the "repose of the soul" were merely figments of the
[269]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
imagination —minted from the fears and superstitions of
those who must be kept in ignorance of the real facts con
cerning the after-life—every salaried officer in the organiza
tion, from the Pope down to Father de Heredia, would be
telling Othello to move over and make room for him. Their
occupation would be gone.
And this same just fate would face every fundamentalist
and mythological romancer in the "religious game."
A PLENTIFUL DEAL OF NOTHING
And now for Dr. Jastrow. I have neglected him and
his pusillanimous pifflings up to this point, because the il
lustrations with which he embellished my sincere and
straightforward article intrigued me immensely.
But now we come to the cream of the jest, dealing with
what the editor, in reviewing the epoch-marking "Wish and
Wisdom" of Dr. Jastrow's, calls "aberrations of human
credulity illustrating typical failings of the believing mind,
which find their clue in the principles of psychology."
Dr. Jastrow himself, in concluding his classic "state
ment" —which I understand was originally intended to be
an answer to my article —piled Ossa upon Pelion, and with
a typical Sir Oracle peroration burps "In this instance, we
must believe one way or the other —and in the other, mad
ness lies."
I assume, naturally, that Dr. Jastrow has made no at
tempt here to prove he was mad. Therefore, I conclude he
fatuously believes that I, and all the millions who believe as
I do, are mad.
Fair enough! But, as Hamlet has so succintly stated,
I am but mad north-northwest : When the wind is southerly
I know a hawk from a handsaw. (Dr. Jastrow may recog
nize this, even though he made a terrible mess of "much
like a camel or a whale" in his "statement."
His "statement," is probably the silliest and most child
ish piece of babble I have encountered in the last fifty years.
[270]
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S ROSY CHEEKS
It seems incredible that a man, so suffused with egotism
as to dub himself the "Herald of Sanity," could possibly be
guilty of so much loose thinking and false statement in one
single column of tripe.
THE MAD HATTER WAS A PIKER
If Jastrow ever read my article —which I seriously
doubt—he must have been standing on his head, or search
ing for a sand flea, when he did so. For not one single
reference has he made to the material I presented.
I referred in detail to the blowing of a harmonica held
in the cupped hands, in the pocket and under the foot of
Mr. John O'Neill, Science Editor of the New York Sun,
by the materialized spirit of Patsy, a gallant little lad of
twelve, who is one of Frank Decker's guides. (See Chapter
VI, "Patsy Develops Marvelous Harmonica Technique" for
full account).
The conversation between Patsy and Mr. O'Neill and
the blowing of the harmonica —heard by a score of people
—were meticulously described. Yet Professor Jastrow never
said a mumblin' word about the matter.
I related a remarkable experience in connection with my
fully-materialized brother, Adolph, who was cremated ten
years ago. Yet Jastrow never told us how the "glory and
repertory of ectoplasm" —if this cock-eyed expression means
anything —explained the incident I outlined. (See Chapter
VI for details).
Jastrow made no effort to show how "flat faces drawn
on crinkled tissue or paper or "flimsy gauze concealed in a
comb or a false finger," could produce a man —with a body
apparently as solid as my own, and with a deep scar in his
scalp over the right parietal bone —a man who spoke as
naturally as though he were alive in this dimension, and in a
voice clearly audible by everyone in the room.
He neglected to tell us how Schrenck-Notzing could find
cellular granulated structures, about the size and shape of
[271]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
white blood corpuscles, or mucus corpuscles, and also bodies
resembling epithelium without nuclei, and true epithelium.
How can any man who calls himself "Doctor" ignore
the results of microscopical and chemical findings, which
Schrenck-Notzing and Richet have so painstakingly set
down, or cackle derisively at the reports of these giants of
medicine?
No man, with the slightest knowledge of histology,
could possibly be so uninformed as to contend that skin
tissue, mucous cells, leucocytes, cell nuclei, epithelioid
structures and human hair—clipped from the heads of
materialized spirits, as I myself have done—could ever be
mistaken for fibers, secured from a piece of gauze.
ARTLESS PRATTLE
Jastrow prattles about "gauze producing a cosmos," but
says nothing about Dr. Gustave Geley's statement respecting
the "physiological rapport between ectoplasm and the body
of the medium." (See Chapter XV).
He is cataleptic from auto-hypnosis when the amazing
glasolalia of Madame d'Esperance is referred to, and the
astounding results of the Goliger studies, recorded by Dr.
Crawford, are noted. As a matter of fact I doubt that
Jastrow ever before even heard of Madame d'Esperance,
or of Dr. Crawford's classical work. (Chapter XV).
Instead, he is groping bewilderingly, as one afflicted with
protracted adolescence due to persistence of the thymus
function might grope — for a reason why the physicists,
biologists, and psychologists "have missed the unsuspected
climax of their pursuits" —if this bilge-water conveys the
subtle idea —heedless of the fact that Barrett, Pupin, Lodge,
Crooks, Wallace, Lombroso, Ochorowitz, Mueller, Conan
Doyle, Schrenck-Notzing, Richet and a thousand other
scientists —many of them world-renowned —are "physicists,
biologists, psychologists" and everything else in the realm of
[272]
IN WHICH I PAT PROFESSOR JASTROW'S ROSY CHEEKS
exact science, yet fall inevitably into the classification of
"madness" into which Jastrow pitchforks them.
Jastrow makes no effort to explain how the materialized
spirit of the Indian woman Honto —measured and weighed
by Col. Olcott—could be five feet three inches in height and
weigh eighty-five pounds, and yet be made up from a sheet
of crinkled tissue paper. (Chapter XV).
He sneers at the "Margery mediumship" —conducted by
Drs. Crandon and Richardson under perhaps the most per
fect test conditions ever devised by psychic investigators.
He never condescended to explain how Frank Decker
could be nailed in a box by members of the Psychical Re
search Society, with only his head protruding, levitate several
trumpets and produce two or three voices simultaneously.
Or be locked up and sealed in a Government mailsack, and
yet produce physical phenomena of an astounding character.
It would seem that only the most intensive study of
stupidity could have produced anything so string-halted as
Dr. Jastrow's reply to my article.
To answer considered statements and well-supported
facts with cheap ridicule and blundering buffoonery should
be penalized by two years compulsory study in a kinder
garten. This might constitute an excellent foundation for
a real understanding of psychic phenomena by the "Herald
of Sanity."
[273]
Chapter XXIII.
STUPIDITY SPREADS TO TEXAS
I HAD always believed that the persecution and expulsion
of the high-school instructor, John Thomas Scopes, of
Dayton, Tennessee, in July, 1925, registered a new low
in human stupidity. However, I am now convinced that I
gave Tennessee credit for more fat-headedness and ignor
ance than this fair state really merited.
For, at that time, the Texas Wesleyan College hadn't
forced the resignation of Mrs. Enid Smith —their cultured
and highly intelligent Dean —because of her belief in our
ability to communicate with the so-called dead.
Nor had the president of this institute—dedicated to
the high task of refining and polishing stupidity into lapida-
rial perfection —proclaimed his ignorance and bigotry so
blantantly on page one of all the newspapers in the land.
However, while Dayton, Tennessee and Fort Worth,
Texas, may diverge widely in certain aspects of advanced
education, they unquestionably suffer from the same form
of divergent strabismus and microcephalism.
The symptoms are very similar in both instances. Yet
it is quite likely that the Lone Star's condition is just a shade
worse than that of the Bug-House State. And that she will
be picking at the bed clothes and muttering in delirium long
before Tennessee finally sinks into the alluvial swamp.
However, to give the devil her due, and diagnose ac
curately the condition in both of these patients, we must
remember that Tennessee merely enacted a State Law in
March 1925, which made it unlawful for any public instruc
tor to teach the principles of evolution, or to refer to evolu
[274]
STUPIDITY SPREADS TO TEXAS
tion in any manner, unless the reference was accompanied
by curses, not loud, but satisfactorily deep.
It will be recalled that the notorious Scopes was packed
to the ears with fantastic drivel about evolution which
contradicted biological facts—as found in the Bible —that
male and female created He them (all except those organ
isms that sporulate, or subdivide by multiple fission, or that
are bisexual) and gave them instructions to go ahead and
multiply.
Scopes, that contaminator of the minds of adolescent
Tennesseans —many of them permanently pubertial —was
obsessed by a ridiculous idea—first advanced by Darwin and
Wallace, and subsequently adopted, more or less universally
by uncounted millions of so-called intelligent people.
The idea was that all life originated in a unicellular
organism —a protozoa—and that Aristotle, Shakespeare,
Leonardo de Vinci, Einstein and the Tennessee legislators
who enacted the schizophrenic "Hog-Wash and Horse-
Laugh Act" were, or are, merely the product of countless
ages of progressive change. And that, from the simple to
the complex, the homogeneous to the heterogeneous they
have spiraled upwards, through a principle based upon en
vironment, the law of selection, survival of the fittest, and
the gradual elimination of those with skulls of more than
three inches in thickness.
Naturally, the quick-witted and preternatu rally intelli
gent Tennesseans sensed the iniquitous results of such sub
versive teachings. They leaped with all four feet to the
defense of the Hog-wash and the Horse-Laugh Act when
Stopes read a particularly heinous chapter of George W.
Hunter's "Civic Biology" to his class.
THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION AND CLARENCE
DARROW
Perhaps the most lamentable aspect of this unfortunate
attack on the inalienable rights of bumptious bigotry occur
[275]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
red when the American Civil Liberties Union appointed a
huddle of lawyers to defend Stopes, the Darwinian Dupe.
An additional blow was dealt the Convocation when
Clarence Darrow, that "stormy petrel" of the ungodly,
volunteered his services in defending the alledged criminal,
Stopes.
Darrow was opposed by that staunch crusader William
Jennings Bryan, who was put on the stand by Darrow, given
an opportunity to express his unshakable conviction that
Jonah swallowed the whale, that Adam and Eve, and not
the Piltdown or the Neanderthal Man and Woman were
our ancestors, and that anyone who didn't accept the myth
ology and folk-lore of the Bible, in toto, were deaf, dumb
and blind. And suffering, in addition, from a mild case of
softening of the brain.
Bryan died a few days later from trying to eat a ham
and a half a bushel of turnip greens—or some equally filling
and nutritious repast.
In the meantime the Judge found Stopes guilty as
charged, and fined him $100. Defense appealed the case
to the Supreme Court of the sovereign State of Tennessee.
In January 1926 these Daniels-Come-To-Judgment re
versed the decision of the Trial Court—not because the wise
provision in the law prohibiting the teaching of evolution
had not been violated, but because Stopes had been over
charged for this by the trial judge.
He should have been mulcted of only fifty dollars, in
stead of one hundred. And the fine should have been as
sessed by the jury, not by the judge. All of which brings
Tweedle-Dum and Tweedle-Dee down to date.
However, through this exhibition of sane, conservative
and logical thinking, the State of Tennessee got two hun
dred million dollars worth of free publicity, establishing its
intelligence quota as slightly higher than that of Patagonia,
although not so elevated as that of Ethiopia.
[276]
STUPIDITY SPREADS TO TEXAS
WHEN SKULL-SUTURES CLOSE PREMATURELY
However, all this matter dealt with "Where do we come
from," and may be considered, more or less, as "water under
the bridge." For it really doesn't greatly matter now, just
where we came from. What is much more important to us
is where do we go from here?
Popes, cardinals, bishops, ministers, curates, muezins,
bonzes and all those, trained to cultivate credulity are either
densely ignorant of all definite information concerning the
after life, or else they are interested only in the billions that
have been poured into their coffers.
Of late years the golden stream has become somewhat
attenuated, thank God, and the scramble for rich pickings
much more acute.
We have amongst us any number of these exhorters and
teachers, the sutures of whose skulls may have united pre
maturely. This minor deviation from normal anatomical
growth reduces the size of their brain pans and the potential
contents of these containers.
However, this anatomical prank only renders them all
the more fit to become presidents of theological colleges and
seminaries, missionaries and monks, chaplains in the whole
sale gang-killings of war and similar jobs.
As an instance of the manner in which Nature works, her
marvels to perform, consider the recent turmoil in Texas, to
which we referred earlier in the day.
We have it on the authority of the Associated Press,
as printed in the New York Evening Post. Read it and
weep.
"Methodists Oust Girls' Dean For Communing With Dead
Woman at Texas Wesleyan College Says She Reached
Mother Through Brother
Fort Worth, Tex., Nov. 9 (AP)— Mrs. Enid Smith
will resign as dean of women at Texas Wesleyan College
[277]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
next week because of her asserted belief that it is possible
to communicate with the dead.
"I have conducted experiments myself and know that it
is possible," she said, adding a number of students had told
her they would leave the college in protest against her re
quested resignation.
"We don't demand that our faculty members are Meth
odists," said President Tom W. Brabham, "but we do feel
that their views should conform to the broad fundamentals
of the Methodist Church. Belief that it is possible to com
municate with the dead does not coincide with those funda
mental principles.
PRESIDENT PUZZLED
"We asked Mrs. Smith about reports she told a student
group she communicated with her dead mother through the
medium of her brother," President Brabham said, "and she
said God radiated through her. I don't know exactly what
she meant."
Mrs. Smith said she was simply a seeker after truth and
that she had the broad views of any well-educated and
widely traveled person, with regard to spiritualism and
evolution.
"I count it an honor, in a way," she said, "that they
have asked me to leave. I feel that I am a prophet, far
ahead of today's bigotry and ignorance."
Mrs. Smith holds A.B. and A.M. degrees from the Uni
versity of Southern California, a Ph.D degree from Colum
bia University and a diploma from the Emerson College of
Oratory. She has done special work in the Universities of
Chicago and Hawaii; taught in the Springfield Normal
School at Springfield, Mass. ; held a position as instructor in
English and music in a British India training school, and
taught science in McKinley High School in Hawaii."
It is deeply to be regretted that Tom W. Brabham
couldn't have lived a few hundred years earlier. He could
[27.8]
STUPIDITY SPREADS TO TEXAS
have been real chummy with Torquemada, or qualified as a
fraternity brother with Cotton Mather, champion witch-
hunter of America.
Of course he couldn't understand what the intelligent
Mrs. Smith meant when she said that "God radiated
through her." He couldn't possibly have known that God
is everywhere —even in the ultimate of electronic subdivi
sion, and that He not only radiates through Mrs. Smith,
but through every particle of matter in the universe.
For every minutest particle of matter is merely, in itself,
but one of the many forms of energy—a peculiarly perma
nent form.
And correctly so. For this Energy—this Force, of in
herent and incomprehensible Intelligence, is God—Omni
present, Omniscient and Omnipotent.
CARRYING THE GOSPEL TO THE HEATHEN
In order to give President Tom W. Brabham of the
Texas Wesleyan College, a small modicum of fact, upon
which he might cut his deciduous teeth, may I remind him
that Dr. Adam Clark, famous Methodist commentator says :
"I believe there is a supernatural and spiritual world, in
which human spirits, both good and bad, live in a state of
consciousness. I believe that any of these spirits may, ac
cording to the order of God, in the laws of their place of
residence, have intercourse with this world and become vis
ible to mortals."
Also that Sir Alfred Russel Wallace, English naturalist
and co-discoverer with Darwin of the principle of natural
selection, was a Methodist and president of a Methodist
college before he reformed. He not only adopted the belief
in the genuineness of the spiritualistic phenomena and the
spiritistic explanation of this phenomena, but he also pub
licly advocated the belief. Wallace tells us that:
"I am as well satisfied of the fact of communication be
[279]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
tween mortals and spirit as I am of the facts of wireless
telegraphy."
Sir William Crookes, the greatest British chemist of his
time, president of the British Society for the Advancement
of Science, spent many months in a careful scientific investi
gation before he wrote his famous treatise pronouncing the
phenomena genuine and attributing them to spiritistic ac
tivity. The same is true as to Sir William Barrett, also
famous in British scientific circles and also a president of
the British Society for the Advancement of Science, who
devoted a long time to psychic investigation and published
many treatise on this subject.
Dr. Crawford, professor of mechanical engineering of
Queens College in Belfast, in his laboratory, with assistants
and apparatus expressly devised for that purpose, made
tests over many months, and then announced that in his opin
ion the phenomena were actual, could not be explained by
any known natural laws and that he fully accepted the
theory that the phenomena were produced by discarnate
persons who had lived on this earth.
In Italy, the great Lombroso; also Professor Botazzi
of the University of Naples and Dr. Pio Foa, professor in
the University of Turin, were forced by the facts, after
thorough investigation, to concede unqualifiedly the genu
ineness of these extraordinary manifestations.
The same conclusions are supported by Camille Flam-
marion, Professor Richet, Geley, famous in the annals of
scientific achievement in France. The list of scholars who
have made thorough investigation and without exception
have been convinced, could be greatly extended. However,
it is chiefly in the United States, where an intensely material
istic and capitalistic philosophy dominates, that this belief is
in disfavor in colleges, universities, churches and the press.
It is fair, however, to say that Professor Hyslop of
Columbia University devoted much time and numerous
books to the effort to convince the American public that the
[280]
STUPIDITY SPREADS TO TEXAS
phenomena of spiritualism are genuine, that they cannot
be explained by any natural law known to the scientific world
and that the spiritistic explanation thereof is the true one.
Reverend Theodore Parker said: "I believe spiritualism
will be the religion of the future."
Henry Ward Beecher said, "Spiritualism strengthens
faith."
Therefore, if the Methodist college wishes to treat this
belief as tabu, rejecting association with teachers who be
lieve
it,
it
might not be unfair to call their attention to
the fact that as late as 1836 the Methodist Conference
in
the United States declared slavery to be
a
divine institution.
And
if
liberation of the slaves did not "coincide with the
broad fundamentals of the Methodist Church," they are at
least consistent in stigmatizing
a
belief
in
spiritualism in the
same manner.
All of which should give Tom W. Brabham something
to ruminate over.
[281]
Chapter XXIV.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. WRIEDT AND
FRANK DECKER
I had the great privilege recently of sitting in a seance
in which Mrs. Etta Wriedt and Frank Decker jointly were
mediums.
Mrs. Wriedt is one of the oldest and most honored
among all mediums of this decade. She is a charming,
gracious lady of about seventy-five, known to almost every
research worker in the world.
Although she lives in Detroit and has lectured and
worked largely in this country, she has been abroad twenty-
three times, and has sat for hundreds of the most prominent
men and women on the Continent.
In England she is especially respected —even beloved —
and carries with her wherever she goes a beautiful watch,
which came to her through Queen Victoria, who awarded
it to the outstanding contemporary psychic.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle mentions her at some length in
his delightful "History of Spiritualism" and states that he
can corroborate, from his personal experience, that he has
heard several voices at the same time at Mrs. Wriedt's
seances.
Admiral Usborne Moore testifies to having heard three
or four spirit voices speaking simultaneously to as many
recipients of their messages.
In his book, "The Voices" he quotes the testimony of
Mrs. Edith K. Harper a well-known writer, formerly a
private secretary to Mr. W. T. Stead.
[282]
A SEANCE WITH MRS. ETTA WRIEDT AND FRANK DECKER
THE FAITHFUL RECORD OF AN HONEST REPORTER
Mrs. Harper writes :
"After considering a record of about two hundred sit
tings with Mrs. Etta Wriedt during her three visits to Eng
land, of which the notes of the general circles alone would
fill a huge volume, were they written in extenso, I will try
to relate, in brief, a few of the most striking experiences my
mother and I were privileged to have through Mrs.
Wriedt's mediumship. Looking over my notes of her first
visit in 191 1 the following details stand out as among the
principal features of the seances:
"
( 1
) Mrs. Wriedt was never entranced, but conversed
freely with the sitters, and we have heard her talking to,
even arguing with, some spirit person with whose opinions
she did not agree. I remember once Mr. Stead shaking
with laughter on hearing Mrs. Wriedt suddenly reprimand
the late editor of the Progressive Thinker for his attitude
towards mediums, and the evident confusion of Mr. Francis,
who, after an attempted explanation dropped the trumpet,
and apparently retired discomfited.
"(2) Two, three, and even four spirit voices talking
simultaneously to different sitters.
"(3) Messages given in foreign languages—French,
German, Italian, Spanish, Norwegian, Dutch, Arabic and
others—with which the medium was quite unacquainted. A
Norwegian lady, well known in the world of literature and
politics, was addressed in Norwegian by a man's voice,
claiming to be her brother, and giving the name P . She
conversed with him, and seemed overcome with joy at the
correct proofs he gave her of his identity. . . . Another time
a voice spoke in voluble Spanish, addressing itself definitely
to a lady in the circle whom none of the sitters knew to be
acquainted with that language; the lady thereupon entered
into a fluent conversation in Spanish with the Spirit, to the
evident satisfaction of the latter."
[283]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
EXPERIENCE DUPLICATED AT FRANK DECKER'S
I may say that this experience was practically duplicated
at Frank Decker's studio, except for the fact that only three
foreign entities came through —A Chinaman —whom, of
course, no one could understand —an Arabian —who spoke
the only three or four phrases that Dr. Meyer Blatt hap
pened to understand —and an entity who spoke some South
ern European language, which even such polyglots as Joseph
de Wyckoff and his charming wife could not make out,
but which seemed to be a mixture of bastard Greek and
some Italian patois.
Dr. Sharpe, Mrs. Wriedt's chief guide, gave me a mes
sage in his burry Scotch which showed his intimate knowl
edge of the character and intent of the book you are now
reading, and admonished me to show no more consideration
for the hypocrites and ignoramuses who were attacking
spiritism than they consistently had shown and were now
showing for us.
BERT WELLS, JIM RILEY AND PATSY ON THE
RECEPTION COMMITTEE
A fair share of the credit for the very fine showing made
through the united efforts of Mrs. Wriedt and Mr. Decker
was due to the unflagging activities of Frank Decker's
guides—Bert Wells, Jim Riley and little Patsy —who aided
in a yeoman fashion in bringing through a great many
entities who seemed a bit confused as to the technic of mani
festing.
One of the most interesting experiences, however, in
connection with the seance was the meeting between Jim
Riley and Mrs. Wriedt.
Mrs. Wriedt, as I have before stated, takes an unusually
active part in the proceedings. For she does not go into a
trance. On the contrary —wide awake and alert —she keeps
up a running fire of conversation with the spirits —identify
[284]
A SEANCE WITH MRS. ETTA WRIEDT AND FRANK DECKER
ing them to their friends, and helping them to clarify their
messages.
Therefore she is not only able, but is also very willing
to talk with any interesting spirits who might come through.
So when Jim Riley "came in" he went up and shook
hands with Mrs. Wriedt, at whose house, a third of a
century ago, he had given many materializing seances.
The conversation between these two, and the fascinating
reminiscenses exchanged, were a treat to the listeners. The
discussion concerning the scarcity of real materializing
mediums today was intensely interesting, particularly to my
self.
For to see entities emerge from behind a flimsy curtain,
in fair and adequate ruby light—fully formed and apparent
ly quite as well equipped with "organs and dimensions" as
are all who may be present—is an amazing and inspiring
experience.
I have had this experience with Dr. Moore, of whom I
have spoken in an earlier chapter. Mrs. Wriedt had it with
Jim Riley and his guide John Benton, who was present, and
who joined intimately in the conversation.
OUTSTANDING MEDIUMSHIP
A gifted and sincere medium is Mrs. Etta Wriedt, hon
ored by royalty and commoner alike for fifty odd years.
And an honest and capable medium is Frank Decker, just
coming into the promise of an extraordinary development,
if he progresses in the next six years as he has progressed
during the seven years in which I have studied him and his
work.
In fact, I am even now looking forward to the fulfill
ment of two predictions respecting Decker made by Jim
Riley and Bert Wells.
One is that, before long, Decker will be doing full mate
rialization in a good ruby light, in which these forms, de
veloped through the utilization of his mediumship, will be
[285]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
quite as visible as they now are tangible —just as they were
with Dr. Moore.
The other is that, when Decker is somewhat further de
veloped and has attained more harmonious relations with
his skillful and scientific guides, whose instrument he is,
they will levitate him out of one window and bring him back
through another window of a tall hotel building.
Just as D. D. Home was levitated at Ashley House
Home, in December 16, 1868, in the presence of Lord
Adare, Lord Lindsay and Captain Wynn.
At the present time I can attest to the fact that, while in
a state of profound trance, Decker has been levitated out of
his chair on various occasions, and raised as high as the
ceiling, just as was Home, the Eddy brothers and many
other physical mediums.
It was a great satisfaction to meet Mr. Daniel Day
Walton, Vice President of the American Society for Psy
chical Research at this seance.
Mr. Walton is an old friend of Mrs. Wriedt, with
whose very dependable phenomena he is well acquainted.
He also has the highest regard for Mr. Decker and his
mediumship, having sat with him a number of times.
I personally, am convinced that there is a great future
for dependable mediums in this country, and that, before
long, we shall see a tremendously increased interest in the
phenomena produced through these gifted people.
When men of the high scientific standing of Dr. Alexis
Carrell and the late Professor Pupin, openly attest their
belief in various aspects of psychic phenomena, and plead
for an investigation of these curious happenings, the case-
hardened spiritist may well feel encouraged.
Maybe the light is breaking through —after all.
[286]
Chapter XXV.
MY "DEAD" MOTHER BRINGS ME A LOCK OF
HER HAIR
On the evening of June 21, 1935, I had an experience
which, so far as I can ascertain, has never been duplicated.
For in the presence of seventeen people and two mediums—
Mrs. Ethel Post and Frank Decker — I cut from the head of
my mother —materialized in full form through the instru
mentality of these two famous mediums and their efficient
guides—a lock of hair.
Nine years ago, after high mass in St. Patrick's Cathe
dral, Pittsburgh, Pa., we placed mother's body in the
ground.
However, it was not long before mother learned to
"manifest," bringing messages of love and greeting to us
through clairaudient and clairvoyant mediums.
A few years later she began to materialize and use the
trumpets at Frank Decker's seances, growing in strength
and psychic power steadily. She finally dispensed entirely
with the trumpet, and "came through" in independent voice.
Last winter mother manifested in fully materialized
form. I have told, in another chapter how she embraced
my brother Charlie and myself, and gave us her blessing.
Shortly after this, inspired by the experience of Profes
sor von Schrenck-Notzing, Professor Charles Richet and
Madame Bisson —who cut a lock of hair from the head of
an unknown or unidentified entity, partially materialized by
the medium Eva C and by Professor Crooks, who se
cured a strand of rich auburn hair from the long tresses of
the fully materialized entity, Katy King —I asked Bert
[287]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
Wells, Decker's "Chief of Staff", if sometime it might not
be arranged to let me cut a lock of hair from mother's head.
I greatly desired this experience: first, for its impor
tance as a scientific demonstration of the continuity of life
after death and as a distinct contribution to the literature
of psychic research; and second, as a precious memento of
my dear mother.
Bert promised that sometime, when conditions were
favorable, I would be granted this great privilege. He
further suggested that, whenever I came to the seances,
hereafter, I should bring with me a small pair of scissors,
as he could not tell in advance just when the "forces" could
bring about the exact conditions required for this demon
stration.
BROTHER ADOLPH GIVES ME THE SCISSORS
Needless to say, after this admonition, I carried a pair
of small scissors in my pocket every time I attended a seance
at Decker's.
One night Mrs. Ethel Post, famous trumpet and ma
terializing medium, came up from her beautiful place at
Camp Silver Belle, Ephrata, Pennsylvania, to give a seance
in Decker's studio.
Expecting, naturally, that Decker's guides would retire
in favor of little Silver Belle and Dr. Banks, Mrs. Post's
"helpers," I did not trouble to bring the scissors.
When I arrived at the studio, however, I found that
Mrs. Post had persuaded Decker to sit with her in a "dou
ble sitting." Each of these splendid mediums complemented
the other, making a unique and tremendously potent "bat
tery."
After a half hour or more of unusually evidential mes
sages, my brother, Dr. Adolph, came through, and in his
quizzical manner said "Hello, Ted, I see you've forgotten
to bring your scissors tonight."
I answered, "That's right, Adolph, I did. But before
[288]
MY "DEAD" MOTHER BRINGS ME A LOCK OF HER HAIR
I took my seat I saw a pair on Frank's writing desk—
directly in back of me. I'll try and get them, if you say so."
Adolph laughed. "Don't bother. You couldn't find
them anyhow —in the dark. But here they are."
And in the fraction of a second he thrust into my hands
the small scissors I had noticed on Frank's desk.
I said "Thanks, Adolph. What'll I do with them now?"
"Just keep them safe" he said, "until we tell you." And
he was gone.
After another ten or fifteen minutes of messages to
various sitters in the circle, Adolph came back, slapped me
on the shoulder and said "Stand up, Ted."
I arose to my feet. Then changing his position in the
lightning-like way in which the discarnate frequently move,
he was at my side, guiding me by the right arm toward the
center of the room. Suddenly I felt the touch of a firm
body, and I heard mother's voice saying, "Edvin, my bye."
"God bless you, Mother," I greeted. "I'm so glad to
hear your voice again. And to touch you once more."
MOTHER HELPS ME CUT A LOCK OF HAIR
Mother then took my left hand—I held the scissors
firmly hooked in the thumb and finger of my right—and
guided my hand until it came in contact with her hair and
scalp.
Taking my left thumb and finger in her hand she sepa
rated a lock from her heavy mass of hair. Holding my
fingers in this position with her right hand, she took my
right hand and brought it up to the lock of hair I was hold
ing, and said, "Cut it here."
I then snipped off a lock about three inches in length,
comprising perhaps two hundred separate hairs.
Mother said "Keep it always, Edvin."
This request was evidently prompted by a statement I
had made, to the effect that I wanted to make a micro
scopical examination of the hair, establishing its histology
[289]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
and epithelial cell structure, after which I would incinerate
the hair and have its ash examined, and try to prove that
its chemical identity is the same as that of the ash of any
other human hair.
Mother knew of this intent and pledged me to keep this
lock of hair—so strangely obtained—as a priceless relic.
Which I shall do, as long as I live.
"i MUST GO NOW, EDVIN"
Then she said, "I must go now, Edvin." Leaning over,
she kissed me on the cheek and was gone.
Bert Wells then took me by the arm and led me back
to my chair. Needless to say I immediately expressed my
profound thanks to him and to Patsy, Silver Belle, Dr.
Banks, my brother Adolph and the dear spirits who had
helped bring about this miracle.
Also to Mrs. Post and Frank Decker, splendid instru
ments, whose finely attuned vibrations made possible this
wonderful demonstration.
I may say that two young physician friends, expert
microscopists, and myself examined this gray hair the fol
lowing day, and found it to conform in every respect—
microscopically and histologically —with human hair. In
fact, it was undistinguishable from another specimen of hair
of similar color and texture, which we tested at the time.
Also, when we applied the flame of a match to a few
hairs taken from the strand, these burned identically as
human hair would burn.
The histological and microscopical aspects of this speci
men may be confirmed by any histologist who has in his
anatomical makeup a sufficient amount of Doubting Thomas
blood to warrant his examination of my precious gift.
HOW DO YOU KNOW IT WAS MOTHER?
I may add that since this experience I have been asked
several times "How do you know that this entity to whom
[290]
MY "DEAD" MOTHER BRINGS ME A LOCK OF HER HAIR
you spoke and from whose head you cut a lock of hair, was
your mother. How do you know it wasn't Frank Decker,
Mrs. Post, or some one else in the room?"
To this I reply even if you were blind and you had been
led to your mother — who spoke to you in her well-
remembered voice, with its Irish accent —don't you think
you'd know whether or not it was your mother? And if
she were the same entity who had taken you in her arms on
several previous occasions and kissed you, wouldn't you be
even more certain? More especially if she kissed you after
you had cut the lock of hair from her head, and said, "Now,
you keep that always, Edvin, and don't go and burn it up,
as you were going to do?"
Remember, I had originally planned to incinerate the
hair, and have the ashes examined, to establish their chemi
cal identity with that of human hair. Mother knew of my
intentions —hence her very natural request.
I may add that I was also greatly impressed when my
brother Adolph —in form as tangible as my very own, and
in a voice quite as resonant as mine, told me it was my
mother who was subjecting herself to this very severe test.
And when my good spirit friend, Bert Wells, took me
by the arm—after I had cut the lock of hair and said good
bye to mother —and led me back to my seat. And when
Patsy and Jim Riley told me afterwards that they, my
brother Adolph, Jim Riley, John Benton, —as well as Siver
Belle and Dr. Banks, Mrs. Post's guides—were all present,
aiding Dr. Stoddard to develop and "fix permanently" this
lock of hair.
Further to block iconcoclastic criticism, I may add that
Decker's hair is almost black and Mrs. Post's is only faintly
streaked with gray, while the lock I cut—which I never
relinquished, once I felt it between my finger and thumb—
was almost white.
Oh, no, it is my mother's hair—or rather a simulacrum
of her hair—which reposes in my letter file. Of this I am
[291]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
quite as positive as I am of the fact that I did not smoke a
marahuana cigarette, and while under the hallucinations,
stimulated by hashish, advance to the center of the room
and cut off a lock of my own hair.
And as I am of the fact that I didn't hypnotize the nine
teen people, in the room at the time, into imagining they
heard me speaking; and imagine they heard these three
different voices giving me specific and intelligible instructions
during the conduct of this experiment; or imagining they
heard me snipping away at that hair with an extremely dull
pair of scissors.
However, I confidently expect Professor Jastrow, in one
of his incredibly stupid attacks on spiritism —emitted over
the radio while impersonating the "Herald of Sanity"—
will find some evasive explanation for this experience. This
harrangue will sound as though it were a sincere and honest
attempt to controvert what I have here stated. Yet it will
not answer a single direct statement in this entire chapter.
Exactly as with the story in the August Modern Psycholo
gist.
I only hope I may live long enough to be afforded the
opportunity of presenting over the radio, or in some im
portant magazine or newspaper, even a fraction of the
enormous mass of evidence, proving survival after death,
and the ability of the discarnate to communicate with us
on this plane.
At present, however, I am not at all sanguine that this
presentation will be permitted for many years to come, if
ever.
WHAT PROFESSOR RICHET MISSED
And now to close the loophole of objection as to Pro
fessor Charles Richet's non-committalism respecting the
human origin of the lock of hair he—in common with
Madame Bisson and Schrenck-Notzing —had secured from
the head of an unknown entity very sketchily materialized
by the medium, Eva C.
[292]
MY "DEAD" MOTHER BRINGS ME A LOCK OF HER HAIR
Schrenck-Notzing and Madame Bisson are absolutely
convinced that they were dealing, in all these partial ma
terializations, with a human entity, and not merely with
some ectoplasmic projection, externalized from the body of
the medium.
Professor Richet, on the other hand—with the same
evidence before him, and with the additional evidence sup
plied by those mediums whose phenomena have been so
favorably regarded by Sir Oliver Lodge and others —con
cludes that "until some approach to proof comes before me,
I shall consider the Spiritualist theory as a working-
hypothesis, moderately probable, convenient, and perhaps
of use for the study of phenomena. That is all.
"Sir Oliver thinks that theory true; I think it neither
demonstrated nor even provable. But that will not prevent
either of us from trying the same experiments, for neither
he nor I make experiments to support or disprove any the
ory. We observe and experiment in order to know and under
stand. Whither that research will lead us we cannot either
of us guess; but what we are fully convinced of is that we
shall accept positively established results, for both of us are
ready to adopt, intergrally and resolutely, whatever may
be conformable with experimental truth."
A straightforward honest statement from an honest
man!
It is deeply to be regretted that Dr. Richet could not
have had an experience similar to mine—which, after the
most careful consideration, I feel is unique in all the annals
of psychic research.
What could he have said if he could have deliberately
planned and executed an epoch-marking experiment, involv
ing the presence of his fully-materialized mother, and the
assistance of five or six discarnate entities, whose identity
was as definite as is the identity of his own laboratory
assistants?
[293]
SPIRITUALISM'S CHALLENGE
What would he have said if these Other World friends
had taken him by the arm and guided him to this mother
who herself, would take his hands, and by voice and gentle
pressure of her materialized hands, direct him to the scalp
surface from which the hair should be cut, and tell him just
how much of it to cut?
And then, before bidding him good-bye, kiss him on the
cheek and call him by a name—spoken in this manner only
by herself.
Or if he had experienced any of the great things that
seem so fantastically unbelievable to the great majority of
people, but which seem commonplace and usual to most
informed spiritualists?
It would be like opening the door into another world.
Yet to me this last experience is merely an additional
item of evidence, confirming the certainty that what we call
death is only the beginning of a new and infinitely better
life.
And that, while we might feel deep regret and a poig
nant sense of loss in the passing of some loved one, we
should not grieve because of their promotion. As well
grieve because a worm has broken through its cocoon and
become a winged thing—shining in the sunlight.
When we accept the facts I have set down in these pages
as truths we shall know that death should leave small leisure
for grief. We shall realize that the seed of life is encased
only for a time in this flesh. And that when it has com
pleted this particular cycle of growth it will blossom into
a fuller fruition of being — evoluting for eternity in the
spiral of ever-growing consciousness.
[294]
